Tsar Bomba (Russian language: царь-бомба; Tsar Bomb) is the nickname for the AN602 hydrogen bomb, the most powerful nuclear weapon ever detonated. Its October 30, 1961 test remains the most powerful artificial explosion in human history. Hence, the Tsar Bomba was an impractically powerful weapon. It was decided that a full 100 Mt detonation would create too great a risk of nuclear fallout, as well as a near certainty that the release plane (and crew) would be destroyed before it could escape the blast radius.
The term Tsar Bomba was coined in an analogy with two other massive Russian objects, the Tsar Kolokol, the world's largest bell, and the Tsar Pushka, the world's largest howitzer. Although the bomb was so named by Western sources, the name is now widely used in Russia. 2008/9 Schools Wikipedia Selection. Tsar Bomba (царь-бомба, literally  Emperor Bomb) is the Western name for the RDS-220 hydrogen bomb (codenamed иван (Ivan) by its developers) — the largest, most powerful nuclear weapon ever detonated.
The term Tsar Bomba was coined in an analogy with other massive Russian objects: the Tsar Kolokol (Tsar Bell), Tsar Tank and the Tsar Pushka (Tsar Cannon). Zone of total destruction of the Tsar Bomba (as an example – over a map of Paris): red circle = total destruction (radius 35 kilometres (22 mi)), yellow circle = fireball (radius 3.5 kilometres (2.2 mi)).
The term Tsar Bomba was coined in an analogy with two other massive Russian objects: the Tsar Kolokol (Tsar Bell), the world's largest bell, and the Tsar Pushka (Tsar Cannon), the world's largest cannon. The CIA denoted the test as JOE 111. Zone of total destruction of the Tsar Bomba (as an example – over a map of Paris): red circle = total destruction (radius 35 kilometres (22 mi)), yellow circle = fireball (radius 3.5 kilometres (2.2 mi)).
The Tsar Bomba was the culmination of a series of high-yield thermonuclear weapons designed by the Soviet Union and the United States during the 1950s (examples include the Mark-17 and B41). Zone of total destruction of the Tsar Bomba (as an example – over a map of Paris): red circle = total destruction (radius 35 kilometres (22 mi)), yellow circle = fireball (radius 3.5 kilometres (2.2 mi)).
Support for this idea may be drawn from the shape of the Tsar Bomba, a fat 2 m wide bomb, too wide to fit inside the Tu-95 bomb-bay. A wide bomb body is what would be expected from a cluster of stages, presumably positioned at the widest part of the bomb. It is likely that devices with yields in this range had already been under intensive development for some time that would provide the basis for the new design. In fact a bomb with a yield of 12.5 Mt was tested in the 1961 series on 23 October, a week before the Tsar Bomba.
The Tsar Bomba is the single most physically powerful device ever used by mankind. For comparison, the largest weapon ever produced by the United States, the now-decommissioned B41, had a predicted maximum yield of 25 megatonnes of TNT (100 PJ). Zone of total destruction of the Tsar Bomba (as an example – over a map of Paris): red circle = total destruction (radius 35 kilometres (22 mi)), yellow circle = fireball (radius 3.5 kilometres (2.2 mi)).
The term Tsar Bomba was coined in an analogy with two other massive Russian objects, Tsar Kolokol the world's largest existing bell, and the world's largest howitzer, the Tsar Pushka. Although the bomb was so named by Western sources, the name is now widely used in Russia. A view of the Tsar Bomba mushroom cloud. [edit] The test The Tsar Bomba was flown to its test site by a specially modified Tu-95 release plane which took off from an airfield in the Kola peninsula, flown by Major Andrei E. Durnovtsev.
Reception of the Tsar of Russia in the Moscow Kremlin. Tsar (Old Church Slavonic: ц︢рь (usually written thus with a tilde) or цар, цaрь; also Czar or Tzar in Latin alphabet languages) is a title used to designate certain European Slavic monarchs or supreme rulers. Simeon II, the last Tsar of Bulgaria, is the last person to have borne the title Tsar as well as being the last surviving person to do so.
Tsar Bomba (Russian: царь-бомба;  Tsar of bombs) is the nickname for the AN602 hydrogen bomb, the most powerful nuclear weapon ever detonated. Zone of total destruction of the Tsar Bomba (as an example – over a map of Paris): red circle = total destruction (radius 35 kilometres (22 mi)), yellow circle = fireball (radius 3.5 kilometres (2.2 mi)).