About Makaton. Makaton is a unique language programme which uses signs, symbols and speech to enable people to communicate. It supports the development of essential communication skills such as attention, listening, comprehension, recall and organisation of language and expression. In addition to the children and adults with communication and learning difficulties and the communities around them-for example, teachers, health professionals, friends, public service bodies etc. - Makaton is increasingly used by the general public to aid communication.
its sign language used by deaf people Makaton is a language programme using signs and symbols to help people communicate. It is designed to support spoken language and the signs and symbols are used with speech in spoken word order. I was just wondering what is makaton all i know is it helps people to learn but what sort of people and what does it involve and also what situations would it be used in and if possible give me two examples in the health care sector which it could be used..any answers appreciated :). Follow. 3 answers 3. Report Abuse.
Makaton is a very simple language based on a list of simple everyday words, which uses speech, gesture, facial expression, body language, signs, symbols and words to aid communication. Makaton was first developed by identifying the words that are used most frequently in everyday conversation. I was just wondering what is makaton all i know is it helps people to learn but what sort of people and what does it involve and also what situations would it be used in and if possible give me two examples in the health care sector which it could be used..any answers appreciated :). Follow. 3 answers 3. Report Abuse.
Makaton is a registered trade mark of The Makaton Charity which was established in 2007. The original trademark application for Makaton was filed in the UK on August 28, 1979, with registration approved as from that date under UK trade mark registration no. 1119745. The Makaton language programme has been effectively used with individuals who have cognitive impairments, autism, Down syndrome, specific language impairment, multisensory impairment and acquired neurological disorders that have negatively affected the ability to communicate, including stroke patients.
Makaton is a language programme designed to provide a means of communication to individuals who cannot communicate efficiently by speaking. The Makaton language programme has been effectively used with individuals who have cognitive impairments, autism, Down syndrome, specific language impairment, multisensory impairment and acquired neurological disorders that have negatively affected the ability to communicate, including stroke patients.
The Makaton symbols and signs are used with speech, the written word or on their own. They provide a visual representation of language which increases understanding and makes expressive communication easier. In addition to the children and adults with communication and learning difficulties and the communities around them-for example, teachers, health professionals, friends, public service bodies etc. - Makaton is increasingly used by the general public to aid communication.
Makaton is a method of communication using signs and symbols and is often used as a means of communication for those with learning difficulties. Makaton is internationally recognised and is used in more than 40 countries. Makaton is a very simple language based on a list of simple everyday words, which uses speech, gesture, facial expression, body language, signs, symbols and words to aid communication. Makaton was first developed by identifying the words that are used most frequently in everyday conversation