1 Baggage may not exceed 45 linear inches (or 114 cm) in combined length, width and height, including any handles and wheels, with the exception of small musical instruments that fit in the overhead compartment space or under-seat space available at the time of boarding. All carry-on bags within Delta's size restrictions will be gate checked, free of charge, during the boarding process and returned upon deplaning. Please ensure that a pink Gate Claim/Planeside tag is securely attached to the carry-on item.
In order to keep the passenger compartment uncluttered and safe, the airlines place rules and size limits on the luggage that each traveler can carry on the plane. The primary rule is the size limit stating that bags carried on board must be small enough to store below your seat or in the overhead compartment. Currently the basic rule is that carry on baggage must be no taller than 22 inches, no wider than 14 inches, and no deeper than 9 inches. 
1 The maximum size carry-on bag for most airlines is 45 linear inches (the total of the height, width, and depth of the bag). 2  Anything larger should be checked. 3  No oversize packages or luggage can be stowed onboard. Think Small…. 1  The maximum size carry-on bag for most airlines is 45 linear inches (the total of the height, width, and depth of the bag). 2  Anything larger should be checked.
Liquids Rule. You are allowed to bring a quart-sized bag of liquids, aerosols, gels, creams and pastes in your carry-on bag and through the checkpoint. These are limited to 3.4 ounces (100 milliliters) or less per item. Placing these items in the small bag separate from your carry-on baggage facilitates the screening process. 
Luggage Size and Individual Airlines. Some international airlines have different size, pound and piece restrictions based on fare class and/or travel zones. Overall, the average weight and size for checked bags is 50 pounds and 62 inches. An average maximum size for carry-on luggage is 45 inches.
Carry-on bag. The maximum dimensions for a carry-on bag are 9 inches x 14 inches x 22 inches (22 cm x 35 cm x 56 cm), including handles and wheels. The maximum dimensions for your personal item, such as a shoulder bag, backpack, laptop bag or other small item, are 9 inches x 10 inches x 17 inches (22 cm x 25 cm x 43 cm). Once at the gate, any item in excess of the carry-on baggage size or allowance requirements will be checked to your final destination and may be subject to applicable service charges. Carry-on items that are acceptable to transport in the cabin but are fragile or bulky will be considered cabin-seat baggage.
3-1-1 for carry-ons = 3.4 ounce (100ml) bottle or less (by volume) ; 1 quart-sized, clear, plastic, zip-top bag; 1 bag per passenger placed in screening bin. One-quart bag per person limits the total liquid volume each traveler can bring. 3.4 ounce (100ml) container size is a security measure. Be prepared. Each time TSA searches a carry-on it slows down the line. Practicing 3-1-1 will ensure a faster and easier checkpoint experience.
Carry-On Luggage. International flights always allow carry-on luggage, but each airline has its own restrictions as to quantity, size and weight. Some international carry-on policies restrict bag weights to 11 lbs. or less, while domestic flights rarely have a weight limit. Overall, the average weight and size for checked bags is 50 pounds and 62 inches. An average maximum size for carry-on luggage is 45 inches.