SCIENTIFIC NAMES OF ORGANISMS This is a list of the organisms whose names are mentioned in at least one of the following McGraw-Hill botany texts. The common names are listed alphabetically along with the scientific names. Levetin, E., and K. McMahon. 
Confidence votes 219. Only individual breeds of bacteria have specific scientific name, there are many types of bacteria. However, there are two kingdoms of bacteria that are reffered to as eubacteria, which are normal bacteria, and archaebacteria, which live in extreme environments such as boiling water. The bacterium is called streptococcal pharyngitis. This is the strain which causes strep throat. There are many other causes for sore throat as well, so be sure and check wi … th your doctor if you have a fever of 101 or higher.
T he following appendix lists the common and scientificnames of microorganisms, fungi, plants, and animals men-tioned in the report. The names are listed in the following order:viruses, bacteria, fungi, algae, plants, and animals. 
An Introduction to the Scientific Name for Cholera. The scientific name for cholera is Vibrio cholerae. Vibrio cholerae is a type of bacteria; when an infection occurs, it can result in an acute, diarrheal illness that can lead to severe dehydration and even death within a matter of hours (cholera). Vibrio cholerae are gram-negative rods (see Pictures of Cholera) . 
Scientific Name for Strep Throat. Strep throat is the most common type of bacterial throat infection; it is caused by group A streptococcus bacteria (GAS for short). The scientific name for strep throat bacteria is Streptococcus pyogenes. This throat infection is most frequently diagnosed during the late fall, winter, and early spring. 
The scientific name for the bacteria that are found on skin and other mucus membranes is Staphylococcus. Staphylococci have two varieties, Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. There are many types of bacteria, and scientists have spent many years culturing and studying their properties. The scientific name for the most common bacteria is Escherichia coli. E. coli was discovered by Theodore Escherich. This bacterium is found in the intestinal tract of every individual and helps breakdown food. It is also found in hot springs and radioactive waste, so it can exist in widely diverse environment
Staphylococci. The scientific name for the bacteria that are found on skin and other mucus membranes is Staphylococcus. Staphylococci have two varieties, Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Staph epidermidis is found on skin and mucus membranes and does not typically cause disease. There are many types of bacteria, and scientists have spent many years culturing and studying their properties. The scientific name for the most common bacteria is Escherichia coli. E. coli was discovered by Theodore Escherich. This bacterium is found in the intestinal tract of every individual and helps breakdown food. It is also found in hot springs and radioactive waste, so it can exist in widely diverse environments