H. The brit milah (Hebrew: בְּרִית מִילָה ‎, [bʁit miˈla] ; Ashkenazi pronunciation: [bʁis ˈmilə] , covenant of circumcision ; Yiddish pronunciation: bris [bʀɪs]) is a Jewish religious male circumcision ceremony performed by a mohel on the eighth day of a male infant's life. A Milah L'shem giur is a Circumcision for the purpose of conversion. In Orthodox Judaism, this procedure is usually done by adoptive parents for adopted boys who are being converted as part of the adoption or by families with young children converting together.
Judaism and circumcision. Circumcision is an initiation rite for Jewish newborn babies. This usually takes place in a ceremony called a Brit (or Bris) milah witnessed by family and community members. Milah is Hebrew for Covenant of Circumcision. The ritual is an ancient practice that has been carried out by Jewish parents for more than 3,000 years. Such is the importance of Brit milah that circumcision can take place on the Sabbath or a holy day even though the drawing of blood is not normally allowed on these days under Jewish law.
The Objective of the Ritual Circumcision Translating Brit Milah as simply circumcision rather than covenant circumcision, erroneously implies that the removal of the foreskin is the most important element of the mitzvah. Circumcision is coupled with the intent to forge a covenant between God and the Jewish people. Today, by performing the act circumcision, Jews perpetuate the covenant and make their children a part of that eternal promise. The Deeper Meaning The fact that the Brit Milah is performed on the eighth day after a boy is born hints to this idea of eternal Jewish continuity.
The Order of the Ceremony of Brit Milah. The ceremony of Brit Milah takes place in three parts. The first part of the ceremony includes the physical circumcision. The ceremony begins when the kvatterin takes the infant from his mother and brings him to the room where the circumcision will occur. 
The complete name of the ritual is bris (or brit) milah, with the second word meaning “circumcision” and the first word meaning “covenant.” The circumci­sion ceremony identifies the Jewish child as a member of the covenant with God by virtue of his birth as a Jew into a Jewish family. 
After you successfully pass your interview by the conversion court, all males come to the second step in the conversion ceremony, brit milah. This is a traditional Jewish ceremony, in which a man’s foreskin is removed, as a sign of the covenant between him and his Creator. If your foreskin was removed in the past, not in a Jewish-halachic context, or you were born without a foreskin, you will instead have a hatafat dam brit.
Brit milah, which means covenant of circumcision, is a Jewish ritual performed on a baby boy eight days after he is born. A minyan is not required for a bris. The only people who are required to be present are the father, mohel and a sandek, who is the person who holds the baby while the circumcision is performed. Brit Milah is composed of three main parts.
The Ceremony. The ceremony of brit milah takes place on the eighth day of a baby boy’s life, even if that day falls on Shabbat or a holiday, including Yom Kippur. The only reason the ritual would not be performed is if the child is ill or too weak to safely undergo the procedure. A minyan is not required for a bris. The only people who are required to be present are the father, mohel and a sandek, who is the person who holds the baby while the circumcision is performed. Brit Milah is composed of three main parts.
Brit Milah, or circumcision, is performed on a Jewish male eight days after he is born. The procedure is performed by a mohel – a person who has mastered the set of Jewish laws regarding circumcision and received extensive practical training. At a Brit Milah, the mohel removes the baby's foreskin and draws blood from the reproductive organ, after which the baby is given a Jewish name. Today, by performing the act circumcision, Jews perpetuate the covenant and make their children a part of that eternal promise. The Deeper Meaning The fact that the Brit Milah is performed on the eighth day after a boy is born hints to this idea of eternal Jewish continuity.
Kveller Staff. Kveller Staff. The main element of a bris –also called a brit milah –is the removal of the foreskin from an eight-day-old baby boy’s penis. But a bris is actually more than just a snip; it is a ceremony that includes various traditions, rituals, and prayers. Here’s a rundown of the main events. 