Definition of Counterculture. A counterculture is a group of people whose values, norms, and behavior clash with those of the prevalent culture. A counterculture is a kind of subculture, a culture within a culture; however, not all subcultures are countercultures. Sociologists use the concept of counterculture to identify cultures that are antagonistic to a dominant culture. 
Tweet. : a culture with values and customs are very different from and usually opposed to those accepted by most of society; also: the people who make up a counterculture. : a culture with values and mores that run counter to those of established society. — coun·ter·cul·tur·al \ˌkau̇n-tər-ˈkəlch-rəl, -ˈkəl-chə-\ adjective. — coun·ter·cul·tur·al·ism \-rə-ˌli-zəm\ noun. — coun·ter·cul·tur·ist \-rist\ noun. See counterculture defined for English-language learners.
Prominent examples of countercultures in Europe and North America include Romanticism (1790–1840), Bohemianism (1850–1910), the more fragmentary counterculture of the Beat Generation (1944–1964), and perhaps most prominently, the counterculture of the 1960s (1964–1974), usually associated with the hippie subculture. Typically, a fringe culture expands and grows into a counterculture by defining its own values in opposition to mainstream norms. Countercultures tend to peak, then go into decline, leaving a lasting impact on mainstream cultural values.
However, there could be subcultures and countercultures within a mainstream culture. Subcultures share the main values of the mainstream culture, but they have their own characteristics which differentiate the subculture group from the rest. • When we consider both counterculture and subculture, the main difference we see is that the counterculture goes against the mainstream culture whereas subculture shares the values of the main culture while adapting their own identities.
Countercultures. The enclaves in which people of the modern era live no longer resemble the small, integrated, and homogeneous communities of earlier times; rather, these have been replaced by large societies that are complex and diverse in their composition. Examining these in reverse order, countercultures are often considered mutations of the normative social order, encompassing such drastic lifestyle changes that they invoke deep ambivalence and persecution.
Mother Centre Meeting at Nambassa, 1979. A counterculture (also written counter-culture) is a subculture whose values and norms of behavior differ substantially from those of mainstream society, often in opposition to mainstream cultural mores. A countercultural movement expresses the ethos and aspirations of a specific population during a well-defined era. Typically, a fringe culture expands and grows into a counterculture by defining its own values in opposition to mainstream norms. Countercultures tend to peak, then go into decline, leaving a lasting impact on mainstream cultural values.
Countercultures were further differentiated from subcultures by the fact that their particular norms and values, were not well integrated into the dominant culture, generally known among group members, and other mainstream subcultures. Examining these in reverse order, countercultures are often considered mutations of the normative social order, encompassing such drastic lifestyle changes that they invoke deep ambivalence and persecution.
Hippies-A counterculture movement gained momentum in which the younger generation began to define itself as a class that aimed to create a new kind of society in 1967. 
counterculture-a culture with lifestyles and values opposed to those of the established culture. culture-the tastes in art and manners that are favored by a social group. 
3. counter-culture. a counter culture is not a culture that is different from the main culture. its not emo, ska, hippie. those are called sub culture. COUNTER CULTURE is a culture that opposes the main culture and the main culture opposes it. this would include gangs, kkk, skinheads, etc.. 