What Is A Poppet Valve. Poppet valves are actuated by mechanical or electrical. Electrical control include two-port solenoid operated poppet valves and three and four-port solenoid operated poppet valves. Poppet valves are similar to check valves in that the sealing element is a poppet but they are actuated by mechanical or electrical means. Advantages over convention spool-type directional controls are: 1. Virtually zero leakage in closed position. 
Poppet valve & components, including valve stem oil seal. The yellow paint is a spring strength marking. A poppet valve (also called mushroom valve) is a valve typically used to control the timing and quantity of gas or vapour flow into an engine. It consists of a hole, usually round or oval, and a tapered plug, usually a disk shape on the end of a shaft also called a valve stem. The portion of the hole where the plug meets with it is referred as the 'seat' or ' valve seat '.
A poppet valve is a mechanism that regulates the flow of fluid by a unique design consisting of a seat-like element, which opens and closes as the flow requires. 
In the early days of engine building, the poppet valve was a major problem. Metallurgy was not what it is today, and the rapid opening and closing of the valves against the cylinder heads led to rapid wear. They would need to be re-ground every two years or so by a process known as a valve job. It consists of a hole, usually round or oval, and a tapered plug, usually a disk shape on the end of a shaft also called a valve stem. The portion of the hole where the plug meets with it is referred as the 'seat' or ' valve seat '.
What Is A Poppet Valve. In one type of normally closed two-port solenoid controlled poppet valve shown in Figure 1, pressure at port A is applied to the back of the poppet via a small hole (orifice X) in the side-wall. Pressure keeps the poppet closed in the manner of a check v
Think of a poppet valve very much like a stopper or plug in a bath tub drain. When the plug is pulled, the flow path opens quickly and the area that opens is quite large. The large opening of a poppet allows particulate to pass through the valve easily. Poppet valves such as illustrated here feature a design that incorporates a seal that is crimped into the poppet's sealing face. The seal materials that are used include various types of rubber, plastics or other exotic polymers which are chosen based upon various operating conditions.
Poppets are only one of several different types of construction used in the manufacture of industrial directional control valves. Poppet valves are characterized by having a movable element (the poppet) that is used to direct the flow of a fluid or a gas through the valve body. Poppet valves such as illustrated here feature a design that incorporates a seal that is crimped into the poppet's sealing face. The seal materials that are used include various types of rubber, plastics or other exotic polymers which are chosen based upon various operating conditions.
The poppet valve is fundamentally different from slide and oscillating valves; instead of sliding or rocking over a seat to uncover a port, the poppet valve lifts from the seat with a movement perpendicular to the port. It consists of a hole, usually round or oval, and a tapered plug, usually a disk shape on the end of a shaft also called a valve stem. The portion of the hole where the plug meets with it is referred as the 'seat' or ' valve seat '.
Description. The Poppet Valve block models a variable orifice created by a cylindrical sharp-edged stem and a conical seat. The flow rate through the valve is proportional to the valve opening and to the pressure differential across the valve. The flow rate is determined according to the following equations: where. 
Poppet valve. 650 pages on this wiki. A poppet valve is a valve consisting of a hole, usually round or oval, and a tapered plug, usually a disk shape on the end of a shaft also called a valve stem. The shaft guides the plug portion by sliding through a valve guide. In internal combustion engine Edit. poppet valve. The valve is usually a flat disk of metal with a long rod known as the valve stem out one end. The stem is used to push down on the valve and open it, with a spring generally used to close it when the stem is not being pushed on.