First, the quakes have to be sufficiently large. Noticeable tsunamis require earthquakes of about magnitude seven or larger and widely-damaging tsunamis usually require earthquake magnitudes of at least eight or greater. But whereas large-magnitude events are necessary, they alone are not sufficient to cause a tsunami.
1 Tsunamis occur most often in the Pacific Ocean and Indonesia because the Pacific Rim bordering the Ocean has a large number of active submarine earthquake zones. 2  However, tsunamis have also occurred recently in the Mediterranean Sea region and are expected in the Caribbean Sea as well.
Tsunami are waves caused by sudden movement of the ocean due to earthquakes, landslides on the sea floor, land slumping into the ocean, large volcanic eruptions or meteorite impact in the ocean.
The most notorious tsunamigenic earthquakes occur at subduction zones. During a single large subduction earthquake, one plate (typically an oceanic plate) can slip as much as 20 meters (60 feet) beneath the leading edge of the overriding plate (often a continent or chain of volcanic islands).
1 Where do tsunamis most often occur in the world? 2  Tsunamis occur most often in the Pacific Ocean and Indonesia because the Pacific Rim bordering the Ocean has a large number of active submarine earthquake zones.
Less common are tsunami initiated by volcanic eruptions. These occur in several ways: 1  if an underwater volcano erupts, the hot lava may heat the surrounding water quickly and explosively. 2  massive flows of volcanic debris such as ash can travel down the side of a volcano and into the ocean, pushing water outwards.
HOW TSUNAMIS OCCUR. 1 As one plate subducts below another, pressure builds after many years, resulting in a section of the mega-thrust giving away. 2 As this section gives way, it ruptures the ocean floor, resulting in a massive displacement of water, causing a tsunami.
Tsunamis may also be caused by underwater landslides or volcanic eruptions. They may even be launched, as they frequently were in Earth’s ancient past, by the impact of a large meteorite plunging into an ocean. Tsunamis race across the sea at up to 500 miles (805 kilometers) an hour—about as fast as a jet airplane.