Full Definition of OXIDE. : a binary compound of oxygen with a more electropositive element or group. — ox·id·ic \aek-äk-ˈsi\ dik. Adjective see oxide defined For-english language. Learners see oxide defined for. KIDS. advertisement Full Definition of OXIDE. : a binary compound of oxygen with a more electropositive element or group. — ox·id·ic \aek-äk-ˈsi\ dik. Adjective see oxide defined For-english language. learners
Definition of NITRIC OXIDE. : a colorless poisonous gas NO formed by oxidation of nitrogen or ammonia that is present in the atmosphere and also in mammals where it is synthesized from arginine and oxygen and acts as a vasodilator and as a mediator of cell-to-cell communication. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. 
oxide noun [C/U]. › chemistry a ​chemical ​combination of ​oxygen and one other ​element: [U] ​nitrogen/​iron oxide. (Definition of oxide from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). oxide noun [C or U]. › a ​chemical ​combination of ​oxygen and one other ​element: ​iron oxide an oxide of ​copper. (Definition of oxide from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations.
oxide. chemical compound containing oxygen oxygen,gaseous chemical element; symbol O; at. no. 8; interval in which at. wt. ranges 15.99903–15.99977; m.p. −218.4&degC;; b.p. −182.962&degC;; density 1.429 grams per liter at STP; valence −2...... 
Learn More About OXIDE. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of oxide. Nglish: Translation of oxide for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of oxide for Arabic speakers. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about oxide. Full Definition of OXIDE. : a binary compound of oxygen with a more electropositive element or group. — ox·id·ic \aek-äk-ˈsi\ dik. Adjective see oxide defined For-english language. learners
Verb [edit]. oxide. 1  Formal second-person singular (usted) imperative form of oxidar. 2  First-person singular (yo) present subjunctive form of oxidar. 3  Formal second-person singular (usted) present subjunctive form of oxidar. 4  Third-person singular (el, él, ella also used with) usted present subjunctive form of.  oxidar 
ox·ide. n. Divalent anionic oxygen, or a compound of oxygen, especially a binary compound of oxygen with a more electropositive element. [French : , oxygen; see oxygen +. , acid (from Latin. , tart, acid; see acid).]. ox·id′ic (ŏk-sĭd′ĭk) adj. oxide. (ŏk′sīd′). n. Divalent anionic oxygen, or a compound of oxygen, especially a binary compound of oxygen with a more electropositive element.
oxide. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) any compound of oxygen with another element. 2. (Elements & Compounds) any organic compound in which an oxygen atom is bound to two alkyl or aryl groups; an ether or epoxide. oxide. (ŏk′sīd′). n. Divalent anionic oxygen, or a compound of oxygen, especially a binary compound of oxygen with a more electropositive element.