Synchronous Condensers. A synchronous condenser is a synchronous machine running without mechanical load and supplying or absorbing reactive power to or from a power system. Also called a synchronous capacitor, synchronous compensator or rotating machinery.
ABB Synchronous condenser at site, operated by Hydro-Quebec. Product noteSynchronous condensers for voltage support in AC systems ABB is a global leader in power and automation technologies that enable utility and industry customers to improve their performance while lowering the environmental impact.
Synchronous condensers are fundamentally a synchronous motor that is not connected to any driven load. Once started and connected to the electrical system it operates at full leading power factor to put VAR’s into the network to support the system voltage or maintain the system power factor at the desired level.
ABB’s synchronous condensers ensure efficient and reliable operation of power grids by providing reactive power compensation and additional short circuit power capacity. ABB can tailor synchronous condenser modules to match system performance requirements and site conditions, and deliver optimum cost-efficiency.
A synchronous condenser provides step-less automatic power factor correction with the ability to produce up to 150% additional vars. The system produces no switching transients and is not affected by system electrical harmonics (some harmonics can even be absorbed by synchronous condensers).
In electrical engineering, a synchronous condenser (sometimes called a synchronous capacitor or synchronous compensator) is a device identical to a synchronous motor, whose shaft is not connected to anything but spins freely.
A synchronous condenser is operated in a borderline condition between a motor and a generator with no mechanical load to fulfill this function. It can compensate either a leading or lagging power factor, by absorbing or supplying reactive power to the line. This enhances power line voltage regulation.