It is so cool! Gives me the chills everytime, so incredibly rad. Mad World is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982.
Original video from 1983: Mad World by Tears for Fears. This was the third single from their first album The Hurting. Audio and video are correct and true to the original, although the video portion has been digitally enhanced. 
Answer by Terry Mey.  Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982. Both Mad World and its B-side, Ideas As Opiates, would turn up on the band's debut LP The Hurting the following year. The song would eventually become Tears for Fears' first international hit, reaching the Top 40 in several countries between 1982 and 1983. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.
Live from Streamin' Garage Stripped Down Live. gary Jules and Curt Smith sing Mad World from Gears of War. The original singer; Curt Smith from Tears for Fears sings Mad World with Gary Jules on the Streamin Garage stage for Striped Down Live. Gary's version of the Tears For Fears song was featured in the movie Donnie Darko and Gears of War. 
Confidence votes 10.0K. erasure. Answer: The original version of Mad World is by Tears for Fears. It was written by Roland Orzabal, sung by Curt Smith, released as a single in September of 1982, and appeared on their album The Hurting. It was the first chart hit for the band, peaking at #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November of '82. 'This was a hit for Tears For Fears in 1983 and then hit the charts  again twenty years later in 2003 with a version done by Gary Jules.
erasure   Answer: The original version of Mad World is by Tears for Fears. It was written by Roland Orzabal, sung by Curt Smith, released as a single in September of 19 … 82, and appeared on their album The Hurting. It was the first chart hit for the band, peaking at #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November of '82. The song would eventually become Tears for Fears' first international hit, reaching the Top 40 in several countries between 1982 and 1983. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Mad World is a song originally written by Roland Orzabal of the British band Tears for Fears. It was released in 1982 and reached number 3 on the UK Singles chart and later number 2 in South Africa, and was included on the album The Hurting which was released early in 1983
Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears, written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith. Mad World was originally written on acoustic guitar when Orzabal was 19, it was a deliberate attempt to write something in the vein of Duran Duran's  Girls on Film . After a few false starts with Orzabal on vocals, Smith took over and suddenly it sounded fabulous.