This is a list of the almost 450 suburbs of Brisbane, Australia. The Brisbane metropolitan area, coincident with the Brisbane Statistical Division used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, consists of the following local government areas (LGAs), with populations in 2010: 1  City of Brisbane (1,067,279). 2  City of Ipswich (168,131). 3  Logan City (282,673)
As a guide the Perth Metropolitan area is the area generally covered by of the UBD Perth 2007, 49 th Edition Street Directory and extends from Blythwood in the south, to Two Rocks in the north and to The Lakes in the east. Melbourne North-East-includes venues in the Melbourne Metropolitan Area north of the Eastern Freeway/Maroondah Highway/Warburton Highway and east of the Hume Highway but excluding venues within the Melbourne Central area.
When people refer to the population of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Canberra, Hobart or Darwin, they are almost certainly referring to the Statistical Division, or the Greater Metropolitan Area, and this will soon change as these areas are (mainly) expanded. This is despite the fact that the urban areas of Brisbane and Gold Coast have almost merged. So to the north west, Brisbane extends 140km from the city, but ceases only 35km to the south-east (where much of the growth is).
Geographically, Sydney is fringed by the Tasman Sea to the east, the Blue Mountains to the west, the Hawkesbury River to the north and the Woronora Plateau to the south. The Parramatta, Georges and Cooks rivers are some of the major tributaries that flow to the coastline of Sydney. Metropolitan Sydney is classified as Greater Sydney (Greater Capital City Statistical Area) by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). The area extends from Wyong and Gosford in the north to the Royal National Park in the south and follows the coastline in between. 
Sydney South-West-includes venues in the Sydney Metropolitan Area south and west of Homebush Bay. As per UBD Sydney Street Directory, 4. th Edition 2011, south and west of map 232 (inclusive). Sydney South-East-includes venues in the Sydney Metropolitan Area south and east of Homebush Bay. Melbourne North-East-includes venues in the Melbourne Metropolitan Area north of the Eastern Freeway/Maroondah Highway/Warburton Highway and east of the Hume Highway but excluding venues within the Melbourne Central area.
Brisbane, the capital of Queensland, is in the south-east of the state. In the nineteenth century it developed as a river port 100 km from the New South Wales border. In 1925 Brisbane became the only Australian capital city to have metropolitan local government status conferred on it by an act of parliament. Situated on the Brisbane River, the city centre is on the north side of the river and 15 km in a straight line from the river mouth on Moreton Bay. The city centre, Brisbane Central, is described in a separate entry. The new metropolis-wide city of Brisbane occupied 972 sq km, a large enough area in which to vest control of water, sewerage, tramways, electricity and fire brigades. William Jolly, the former mayor of the by now subsumed Windsor, was elected Lord Mayor, coming to office at a time of relative prosperity.
Brisbane Map. Brisbane Central-includes venues in the Brisbane Central Business District and adjacent suburbs. Brisbane North-West-includes venues in the Brisbane Area north of Lake Manchester (inclusive) and west of the Gympie Arterial Road / Bruce Highway but excluding venues within the Brisbane Central area. Melbourne North-East-includes venues in the Melbourne Metropolitan Area north of the Eastern Freeway/Maroondah Highway/Warburton Highway and east of the Hume Highway but excluding venues within the Melbourne Central area.
Satellite image of the Brisbane Metropolitan Area. Centred on the City of Brisbane, it captures from the Redcliffe Peninsula in the north, D'Aguilar National Park to the west, east to Moreton and Stradbroke Islands, and Logan City in the south. The Brisbane metropolitan area, coincident with the Brisbane Statistical Division used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, consists of the following local government areas (LGAs), with populations in 2010: 1  City of Brisbane (1,067,279). 2  City of Ipswich (168,131).
Melbourne South-East-includes venues in the Melbourne Metropolitan Area south of the Eastern Freeway/Maroondah Highway/Warburton Highway but excluding venues within the Melbourne Central area. Victoria Country-includes venues in Victoria outside the Melbourne Metropolitan Area. Melbourne North-East-includes venues in the Melbourne Metropolitan Area north of the Eastern Freeway/Maroondah Highway/Warburton Highway and east of the Hume Highway but excluding venues within the Melbourne Central area.