CLICK HERE to return to the home page Internal Revenue Code Section 166 Bad debts. (a) General rule. (1) Wholly worthless debts. There shall be allowed as a deduction any debt which becomes worthless within the taxable year. (2) Partially worthless debts. (b) Amount of deduction. For purposes of subsection (a), the basis for determining the amount of the deduction for any bad debt shall be the adjusted basis provided in section 1011 for determining the loss from the sale or other disposition of property.
L. 99–514, § 805(a), struck out subsec. (c), reserve for bad debts, which read as follows: “In lieu of any deduction under subsection (a), there shall be allowed (in the discretion of the Secretary) a deduction for a reasonable addition to a reserve for bad debts.”. Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 99–514, § 805(b), as amended by Pub. 
(A) As used in this section, bad debt means any debt that has become worthless or uncollectible in the time period between a vendor's preceding return and the present return, has been uncollected for at least six months, and that may be claimed as a deduction pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 68A Stat. 
‘‘(b) If— ‘‘(1) the taxpayer before October 22, 1965, claimed a deduction, for a taxable year ending before such date, under section 166(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [formerly I.R.C. 1954] for an addition to a reserve for bad debts on account of debt obligations described. (c), reserve for bad debts, which read as follows: in the suspense account under section 166(f)(4) of‘‘In lieu of any deduction under subsection (a), there shall be allowed (in the discretion of the Secretary) a deduction for a reasonable addition to a reserve for bad debts.’’ Subsec. (f). Pub.
CLICK HERE to return to the home page Internal Revenue Code Section 166(d) Bad debts (a) General rule. (1) Wholly worthless debts. There shall be allowed as a deduction any debt which becomes worthless within the taxable year. (2) Partially worthless debts. For purposes of subsection (a), the basis for determining the amount of the deduction for any bad debt shall be the adjusted basis provided in section 1011 for determining the loss from the sale or other disposition of property.
Posted October 21st, 2014 by Jennifer (Nolan) Mansfield. Abstract: When customers can’t pay up, it may be possible to deduct these bad debts under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 166. But it’s important to understand what counts as partially or wholly worthless bad debt and how to claim the deduction. 
(1) the taxpayer before October 22, 1965, claimed a deduction, for a taxable year ending before such date, under section 166(c). of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [formerly I.R.C. 1954] for. an addition to a reserve for bad debts on account of debt. obligations described in section 166(g)(1)(A) of such Code (as. (c). Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 805(a), struck out. subsec. (c), reserve for bad debts, which read as follows: In lieu. of any deduction under subsection (a), there shall be allowed (in. the discretion of the Secretary) a deduction for a reasonable. addition to a reserve for bad debts.. Subsec. (f).
(c) Relationship to federal income tax return. Washington credits, refunds, and deductions for bad debts are based on federal standards for worthlessness under section 166 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
A bad debt tax credit is allowed only for retail sales tax which has been remitted to the department but has become uncollectible and written off for IRS purposes. b) Credits, refunds, and deductions for bad debts are based on federal standards for worthlessness under section 166 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
Some types of bad debts, whether business or non-business-related, are considered tax deductible. Section 166 of the Internal Revenue Code provides the requirements for which a bad debt to be deducted. 