1 The website of YMCA Wichita factors in your income as well as number of dependents before they give you a quote of membership dues. 2  The cost of membership in this area can range anywhere from $130 to $160 annually depending on the factors that have been stated above.
1 According to the website of YMCA, you can expect to pay anywhere from $100 to $150 depending if you are an adult, single parent family or a family. 2  The monthly fee after paying the initial joining fee can cost you $50 to $81.
1 There are different levels of memberships depending on the age of the client, and the cost of membership will also vary depending on this factor. 2  On average, plan on spending anywhere from $30 to as much as $120 month.
When you join the Y, you join a community organization that offers more health, more hope, more opportunity: 1  Parents find a safe, nurturing environment for their children to stay active, be engaged and learn positive values.
1 The cost to join YMCA will depend on the location of the facilities. 2  There are different levels of memberships depending on the age of the client, and the cost of membership will also vary depending on this factor. 3  On average, plan on spending anywhere from $30 to as much as $120 month.
When you join the YMCA, you’re not limited to one location. With an Association-wide membership, you can visit ALL of our 10 branches in the Greater Indianapolis area, any time, because we know your home location might not always be the most convenient one.
1 On average, plan on spending anywhere from $30 to as much as $120 month. 2  These prices will widely vary depending on how many people are going to use the membership (see chart below.). 3  Daily passes can range anywhere from $4 for a youth to $12 for a family. 4  A single adult can cost around $8 for the day.
The YMCA (Young Men’s Christian Association) is an organization which aims to put Christian values and principles in place by helping members develop a sound mind, body and spirit. The organization, which began in 1944, now has 125 national associations with members and beneficiaries numbering in the millions.
The structure of the YMCA Membership plan is different at every facility (based on location, partnerships with the city they’re in, etc.). The joiner fee isn’t $69 and they have various membership types. Only way to get an accurate cost is to visit the specific website of the branch you interested in. Reply.