Repenomamus The only early mammal known to have hunted dinosaurs. Rugosodon The earliest multituberculate yet identified. Sinoconodon Another intermediate form between reptiles and mammals. Sinodelphys One of the earliest marsupials yet discovered. Eozostrodon This Triassic critter may (or may not) have been the first true mammal. Fruitafossor The earliest digging mammal yet discovered. Hadrocodium This tiny mammal had an unusually large brain. Juramaia The earliest known placental mammal in the fossil record.
The first mammal in space was a Rhesus monkey named Albert II, launched by the US on 14 June 1949 in a captured German V-2 rocket. His rocket reached an altitude of 134 Km but … he died on impact after a parachute failed during the return to Earth. The first mammal to orbit the earth was the dog Laika on November 3 1957 in the Soviet satellite Sputnik 2. which was not designed for her retrieval. Unfortunately Laikia died about six hours after launch. The satellite stayed in orbit for 2570 orbits over a period of about 5 months, and burned up on reentry
There is some debate about this, actually. No one really knows for sure what the first mammal was, but there are two top contenders for the title: the Megazostrodon and the M … organucodon. Both are believed to have lived around 200 million years ago and the species are closely related. 2 people found this useful. 
By Bob Strauss. Ask the average person (or high schooler) on the street, and he’ll guess that the first mammals didn't appear on the scene until after the dinosaurs went extinct 65 million years ago--and that the last dinosaurs evolved into the first mammals. Eozostrodon This Triassic critter may (or may not) have been the first true mammal. Fruitafossor The earliest digging mammal yet discovered. Hadrocodium This tiny mammal had an unusually large brain. Juramaia The earliest known placental mammal in the fossil record.
The truth, though, is very different: in fact, the first mammals evolved from therapsids (mammal-like reptiles) at the end of the Triassic period, and coexisted with dinosaurs throughout the Mesozoic Era. Eozostrodon This Triassic critter may (or may not) have been the first true mammal. Fruitafossor The earliest digging mammal yet discovered. Hadrocodium This tiny mammal had an unusually large brain. Juramaia The earliest known placental mammal in the fossil record.
Report Abuse. The evolution of mammals from synapsids, also known as mammal-like reptiles was a gradual process which took approximately 70 million years, from the mid-Permian to the mid-Jurassic, and by the mid-Triassic there were many species that looked like mammals. 
Publisher. A+E Networks. On this day in 1996, Dolly the sheep–the first mammal to have been successfully cloned from an adult cell–is born at the Roslin Institute in Scotland. Originally code-named “6LL3,” the cloned lamb was named after the buxom singer and actress Dolly Parton. 
Human Genome Project. Back to top of page. Dolly, a Finn Dorset sheep, was born on July 5th, 1996, at the Roslin Institute in Edinburgh, Scotland. Her birth, not revealed to the public until February 3rd, 1997, sparked controversy instantly, because Dolly was the world's first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell. 
No one really knows for sure what the first mammal was, but there are two top contenders for the title: the Megazostrodon and the M … organucodon. Both are believed to have lived around 200 million years ago and the species are closely related. 2 people found this useful. The first mammal to orbit the earth was the dog Laika on November 3 1957 in the Soviet satellite Sputnik 2. which was not designed for her retrieval. Unfortunately Laikia died about six hours after launch. The satellite stayed in orbit for 2570 orbits over a period of about 5 months, and burned up on reentry