Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Proteins. Protein is the third primary source of energy that our bodies need. Protein is extremely important to the growth of our cells and all of the metabolic and biological processes that go on inside our bodies. Save. Our bodies are finely tuned machines and like most machines our bodies need fuel. All the energy that our bodies need comes from the foods that we eat. So, if you deprive your body of any of the three sources of energy (proteins, fats and carbohydrates), it won't run efficiently. That is why a well balanced diet is so important
2. Identify the three major human energy systems,their major energy sources asstored in the body,and various nutrients needed to sustain them. 3. List the components of total daily energy expenditure (TDEE) and how eachcontributes to the total amount of caloric energy expended over a 24-hourperiod. 
There are several energy systems in the human body that produce energy for working muscles. If you are an athlete, or are training athletes, knowing about these systems, how they work, and how to develop them is vital for success. By energy systems we are referring to how the body produces energy for physical activity. This information is important because which system is involved will depend on the intensity and duration of the activity.
Protein is the second category of food that a human body can get energy from. Most people know protein as animal meat-a hamburger, a chicken leg. These are all proteins. You can also extract protein from certain plants. Soy protein isolate is a well known protein that comes from soybeans. Human Body Four Energy Sources. The human body can only metabolize four types of energy sources. These four categories are carbohydrates (sugars and starches), fats (includes oils), proteins (animal and vegetable), and alcohol. These are the only four categories of substance a body can make energy out of. Alcohol
(See table 2.1, Estimated Energy Stores in Humans.) The body can store some of these fuels in a form that offers muscles an immediate source of energy. Carbohydrates, such as sugar and starch, for example, are readily broken down into glucose, the body’s principal energy source. The Body’s Fuel Sources. This is an excerpt from Endurance Sports Nutrition, Third Edition by Suzanne Girard Eberle. The Body’s Fuel Sources. Our ability to run, bicycle, ski, swim, and row hinges on the capacity of the body to extract energy from ingested food.
Energy System 1: Ready fuel for immediate energy. The Immediate Energy system, or ATP-PC, is the system the body uses to generate immediate energy. The energy source, phosphocreatine (PC), is stored within the tissues of the body. When exercise is done and energy is expended, PC is used to replenish ATP. The bulk of the ATP produced by the human body comes from the mitochondria. Therefore, the bulk of the ATP produced is via “aerobic” processes. The first two energy systems are anaerobic, meaning they do not require oxygen.
Most of us have sufficient energy stores of fat (adipose tissue or body fat), plus the body readily converts and stores excess calories from any source (fat, carbohydrate, or protein) as body fat. In order for fat to fuel exercise, however, sufficient oxygen must be simultaneously consumed. The Body’s Fuel Sources. This is an excerpt from Endurance Sports Nutrition, Third Edition by Suzanne Girard Eberle. The Body’s Fuel Sources. Our ability to run, bicycle, ski, swim, and row hinges on the capacity of the body to extract energy from ingested food.
Proteins are essential nutrients for the human body. They are one of the building blocks of body tissue, and can also serve as a fuel source. As a fuel, proteins contain 4 kcal per gram, just like carbohydrates and unlike lipids, which contain 9 kcal per gram. Protein is a nutrient needed by the human body for growth and maintenance. Aside from water, proteins are the most abundant kind of molecules in the body. Protein can be found in all cells of the body and is the major structural component of all cells in the body, especially muscle.