Europe is a continent  consisting of different countries, inclu … ding those 28 and many  others. Many countries in Europe are not members of the European  Union, for example Switzerland, Norway, Albania and Armenia,  amongst others. Yes it does. The continents of Europe and Asia have many boundaries, one being the Caucus Mountains, which just happens to pass through Azerbaijan (North of the Caucus is Euro … pe, south is Asia). Since the mountains cut through Azerbaijan, Azerbaijan is considered a Eurasian country; it is in both Europe and Asia
In the United Kingdom, the Continent is widely and generally used to refer to the mainland of Europe. In addition, the word Europe itself is also regularly used to mean Europe excluding the islands of Great Britain, Iceland, and Ireland (although the term is often used to refer to the European Union). Occasionally the term mainland Europe is used. Kontinenten (the Continent) is a vernacular Swedish expression that refers to the area excluding Sweden, Norway, and Finland but including Denmark (even the Danish archipelago) and the rest of continental Europe.
Report Abuse. Continental Europe means all the countries which are part of the land of Europe, excepting the islands which are separated from the continental land (GB, Iceland, Finland, Sweden etc). andy h · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Continental Europe excludes any counties not connected together. So it excludes the UK, Eire, Iceland. Cyprus, Malta and the like. A bit like mainland USA excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
3. of or relating to or characteristic of a continent. 4. being or concerning or limited to a continent especially the continents of North America or Europe. Familiarity information: CONTINENTAL used as an adjective is uncommon. 
Continental Europe refers to mainland Europe, disregarding islands. Europe continental is something I have never heard of and something that does not exist as to my research. … It is most likely the same as Continental Europe. Yes it does. The continents of Europe and Asia have many boundaries, one being the Caucus Mountains, which just happens to pass through Azerbaijan (North of the Caucus is Euro … pe, south is Asia). Since the mountains cut through Azerbaijan, Azerbaijan is considered a Eurasian country; it is in both Europe and Asia
Continental Europe (green area); the boundaries of the continent are somewhat disputed. Kontinenten (the Continent) is a vernacular Swedish expression that refers to the area excluding Sweden, Norway, and Finland but including Denmark (even the Danish archipelago) and the rest of continental Europe.
Confidence votes 3.0K. Yes. Continental Europe does not include island such as Great Britain and Ireland, or Scandinavia (the countries to the north including Norway, Sweden and Finland). Yes it does. The continents of Europe and Asia have many boundaries, one being the Caucus Mountains, which just happens to pass through Azerbaijan (North of the Caucus is Euro … pe, south is Asia). Since the mountains cut through Azerbaijan, Azerbaijan is considered a Eurasian country; it is in both Europe and Asia