[ 3 syll. je-mi-ma, jem-ima ] The baby girl name Jemima is pronounced JHah-M AY-Mah (English) †. Jemima's language of origin is Hebrew. It is predominantly used in the English and Hebrew languages. Biblical name: The meaning of the name is 'dove, bright as day'. An old form of Jemima is Yemimah (Hebrew). The name appeared in the Bible as the eldest daughter of Job, who was born to him in old age.
The name Jemima is of Hebrew origin, and it means Dove . It's a name commonly given to girls. Jemima Khan is a journalist and campaigner. 
Biblical Meaning: The name Jemima is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Jemima is: Handsome as the day. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jemima is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jemima is: Dove. Little dove. In the Old Testament, Jemima was one of the three beautiful daughters of Job (the other two were Keziah and Keren). The name Jemima is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jemima is: Little dove. In the bible one of Job's three daughters known as the most beautiful women of their time: (the other two were Keziah and Keren).
Jemima /jemi-ma/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced je-MYE-mah. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jemima is  dove . Biblical: eldest of the three daughters of Job (see also Keren and Kezia), renowned as the most beautiful women of their time. The name has been recorded from the early 1700s in England. Jemima is also a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Jemima for girls. Jemima reached its highest position of #958 in the U.S. then, but is not in the list at the moment.
Jemima (also written Jemimah, Hebrew: יְמִימָה ‎, Yemimah) was the oldest of the three beautiful daughters of Job, named in the Bible as given to him in the later part of his life, after God made Job prosperous again. Jemima's younger sisters are named as Keziah and Keren-Happuch. Job's sons, in contrast, are not named. 
Jemima, the name of a strong and beautiful Biblical daughter of Job, has long been among the chicest choices of aristocratic Brits. Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Jemima, the name of a strong and beautiful Biblical daughter of Job, has long been among the chicest choices of aristocratic Brits. Unfortunately, Jemima is still somewhat linked in this country to the stereotypical smiling Aunt of pancake fame, which we think is a pity.
Jemima is an uncommon given name for women. Jemima is also a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Jemima for girls. Jemima reached its highest position of #958 in the U.S. then, but is not in the list at the moment.
The name Jemma is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jemma is: Italian Meaning: The name Jemma is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Jemma is: Jewel or gem. Famous bearer: Italian saint Gemma Gaigani, actress Gemma Craven. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jemma is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jemma is: Dove. Little dove. In the Old Testament, Jemima was one of the three beautiful daughters of Job (the other two were Keziah and Keren).