The word “uh-oh” comes to mind (more accurately: “Nnnngh... uh-oh”), followed by frantic texting to figure out just what happened. And while we can’t tell you just what went down after that fourth shot of tequila, we can tell you what happened in your brain to make those memories pull a Houdini.
How alcohol is absorbed in the body. When you take a drink, about 20 percent of the alcohol is absorbed in your stomach; the remaining 80 percent is absorbed in your small intestine.
The reason people often get more lively when they've had a drink is that alcohol affects parts of the brain responsible for self-control. Your reactions also slow down, and you may become uncoordinated or unsteady on your feet.
When you drink, alcohol enters the bloodstream through your stomach and small intestine. From there it travels to the brain, and because it’s a depressant, it slows down the functions of your body. Drinking alcohol: 1  Slows down your reaction time. 2  Makes you less coordinated.
What Happens When You Drink. When you take a drink, about 20 percent of the alcohol is absorbed in your stomach; the remaining 80 percent is absorbed in your small intestine.
Your Brain on (Too Much) Alcohol. Memories usually follow a steady train through formation: They start in immediate memory; when held onto, they turn into short-term memory; from there they make the leap into your long-term memory.
When you rapidly consume a bunch of alcohol, a roadblock basically goes up between the immediate and short-term memories, says Mark Rose, a licensed psychologist and addiction researcher. To go a bit more in-depth, when they’re exposed to alcohol, the brain receptors that create memories in the hippocampus shut down. So you can remember things in the 30- to 90-second “immediate” span before the blackout, but that’s it.
3 What happens to your brain when you drink too much • Your brain doesn’t work as well • You forget things • You get confused • You may have more seizures • You might pass out • If you pass out in the street you might get mugged.