No Follow. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors. Show Image. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks.
4. The number of days deviled eggs or egg salad can be saved in the refrigerator and still be edible. Hard-boiled eggs still in their shells can keep for a week in the fridge, and raw eggs in their shells can stay fresh three to five weeks from the purchase date, even if the sell-by date has passed. (Source: 1.usa.gov/160UJdA).
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. With egg dyeing just around the corner, many may be wondering how long hard-boiled eggs can be kept before they spoil. Generally, hard-boiled eggs can last a week in the refrigerator
Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. View full size H
According to the Benton-Franklin County Health District, refrigerated hard boiled eggs with the shells still on can be safely eaten within seven days of cooking. Eggs have a protective coating over the shell, and the coating is removed by the boiling process. When an egg is washed or boiled, the protective coating on the shell is removed, and the egg will spoil much faster than a raw egg. Boiled eggs with the shells still on can be refrigerated for up to one week, while peeled eggs must be eaten the same day.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. The best way to store hard boiled eggs is in a covered container in the refrigerator. Eggs can release odors in the fridge which is why it helps to keep them covered. They should be eaten within 5 days.
If the egg is peeled it won't last as long—keep it no more than 3-5 days, and be sure to wrap it well in plastic wrap and/or store it in a heavy duty plastic bag or container with a lid. See our collection of Egg Recipes if you're looking for ways to use up all your hard-cooked eggs. Show Image. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavor
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. View full size H