353,444 Helpful Votes. 388 Followers. A. If you're wondering how long marijuana stays in your system after smoking, it depends on how often you smoke. Light users -- those who smoke pot once in a while -- will have a negative drug screen after a marijuana-free week. 
No one can really say how long you will test positive for marijuana, since the rate of THC metabolism varies per individual. The amount of marijuana consumed can also alter the window of time that your body retains traces of THC. THC-COOH is a metabolite of THC. It is produced when the liver breaks down THC and stays in the body for much longer. The most common cutoff level for THC-COOH used by drug screening companies is 50 ng/mL. Less common cutoff levels are 20 ng/mL and 100 ng/mL.
So, we call this approximate calculation as half life. If you have smoked marijuana then the drug will stay for 3 to 30 days. This is normal for the common drugs. But in the case of marijuana, this can be detected even after a month in Urine drug test marijuana. Marijuana will stay in your system for 10 days if you have been smoking occasionally. If it is smoked on regular basis it will be there up to 45 days and if you smoke constant pace then it will be in the system for as long as 90 days. http://clnk.me/1yc0I. 
• and the Frequency of Use. The most popular drug test is a urine test. THC will test positive in a urine drug test within 2-5 hours of use. If you are a one time user or no more than a couple of times per month, you may test positive for 1-6 days after your last use. A moderate or weekly user may test positive for 7-13 days after their last use. If marijuana use is detected in a hair drug test then it would show up 7 days after use and for as long as 90 days. Hair tests can reliably detect chronic or daily use, but may not detect occasional use. It is doubtful that one time marijuana use would be detected on a hair drug test.
On a Urine Drug Test, THC will appear as a positive within 2-5 hours of use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days. 2  Moderate User may show positive for 7-13 days
On a Saliva Drug Test, THC will test positive within one hour of use, but may only show positive for about 12 hours after last use. On a Hair Drug Test, THC will show up about 7 days after use and most hair drug tests will test for a 90 day period. However, THC does not always bind to the hair follicle which makes it not always considered an accurate testing method for marijuana use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days.
- The time that marijuana stays in the system depends on the amount of marijuana intake and the frequency at which it is consumed. - When you smoke marijuana, your body breaks it down like it would anything else. The products of this breakdown are known as metabolites. The main metabolite of marijuana is THC-COOH. Before we understand the period of time that marijuana lasts in the system, there are a couple of facts that you should know. - The presence of marijuana is detected by a drug test through the presence of the active chemical THC or Tetrahydrocannabinol. Technically, what is detected is known as THC-COOH ...
Marijuana itself does not stay in your system, but the main chemical in marijuana, THC, does. In fact, it may stay in your system forever because it is stored in fatty tissues of various organs. Despite being stored in body fat, THC is only detectable for a certain amount of time. Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. Occasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months