Everyone knows that normal, human urine is yellow in color, but many have often wondered what it means when the liquid they are expelling is a completely different color. Discoloration, murkiness and even blood can cause panic and alarm at the thought that there is something physically wrong with your body. The yellow to amber color that normal urine has is due to a pigment called urochrome. When your urine is darker (amber), this usually is a sign you aren't getting enough fluids. If your urine is on the darker spectrum of what it should normally look like, there's typically no cause for alarm.
Normal urine can range in color from pale yellow (almost colorless) to deep amber. Dark amber urine is usually very concentrated and means that you should be drinking more water. Foods, medications and even vitamins can change the color of urine temporarily but eliminating the cause brings the color back to normal. Most changes in urine color are harmless and the color will go back to normal within a day or two. Urine with a bluish tint can mean some type of bacterial infection or may just mean that you have a high level of calcium. If this persists, give your health care professional a call. Brown urine can indicate a potentially serious condition and you should contact your doctor's office for help.
Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue. An unusual urine color can be a sign of disease. For instance, deep red to brown urine is an identifying characteristic of porphyria, a rare, inherited disorder of red blood cells. 1  Symptoms.
Symptoms. Normal urine color varies, depending on how much water you drink. Fluids dilute the yellow pigments in urine, so the more you drink, the clearer your urine looks. When you drink less, the color becomes more concentrated. Severe dehydration can produce urine the color of amber.
Greenish urine can mean that you have a urinary tract infection but if it's bright green, it can mean that you have too much of B vitamins. Certain drugs and some health conditions can cause urine to turn green, too, so mention this to your health care professional. Urine with a bluish tint can mean some type of bacterial infection or may just mean that you have a high level of calcium. If this persists, give your health care professional a call. Brown urine can indicate a potentially serious condition and you should contact your doctor's office for help.
If your urine is just a dark yellow color at times, especially when you don’t drink enough fluids, then you don’t need to worry. Dark yellow urine is a sign of dehydration. Your urine is dark because your kidneys are doing what they are supposed to do when you are dehydrated: conserving water by making less urine. If this is the case, drink more water — eight 8-ounce glasses each day. There are times when a change in the color or smell of your urine warrants a visit to your doctor. For example, see your doctor if your urine is ever red (unless you’ve eaten beets in the past 24 to 48 hours) or brown.
1 Red or pink urine: certain foods that are naturally red can cause these color changes in your urine. 2  Laxatives and some prescription drugs can also be the cause of red urine. 3  In some cases, blood in your urine stream can be a sign of a medical condition like an enlarged prostate, bladder stones or even kidney cancer. The yellow to amber color that normal urine has is due to a pigment called urochrome. When your urine is darker (amber), this usually is a sign you aren't getting enough fluids. If your urine is on the darker spectrum of what it should normally look like, there's typically no cause for alarm.
Pale yellow is the color of normal urine. Nothing. But if your urine has no color at all (clear), this can indicate diabetes insipidus.If your urine is cloudy, you may have cystitis, and you may need treatment. The more water you drink, the clearer is your urine.Murky urine or cloudy can be caused by kidney stones or urinary tract infections. Cloudy urine in particular can indicate cystitis.Urine which has absolutely no color or is absolutely clear is a symptom of diabetes insipidus.