1 Problems with acne bacteria only occur when they multiply out of control. 2  In small numbers, they actually help the skin by feeding on excess sebum. 3  Any product you put on your skin to kill bacteria should be spot-tested first. 4  Place a small dot of any new product on the skin of your inside forearm.
Like benzoyl peroxide, it kills acne bacteria in pores, although it takes about 72 hours instead of only 48. Unlike benzoyl peroxide, tea tree oil also is anti-inflammatory. It “gets the red out.” Tea tree oil also does not dry out the skin and does not cause new blemishes.
Bacterial skin infections. Some bacteria live on normal skin and cause no harm, such as some Staphylococcus species, Corynebacterium spp., Brevibacterium spp and Acinetobacter. Propionibacteria live in the hair follicles of adult skin and contribute to acne.
Summary: 1  Problems with acne bacteria only occur when they multiply out of control. 2  In small numbers, they actually help the skin by feeding on excess sebum. 3  Any product you put on your skin to kill bacteria should be spot-tested first. 4  Place a small dot of any new product on the skin of your inside forearm.
Sept. 25, 2012 -- Viruses that kill acne-causing bacteria might make a powerful acne treatment, new research suggests. A specific species of bacteria, Propionibacterium acnes, is a major cause of the unpleasant, sometimes disfiguring disease doctors call acne vulgaris.
1 Any product you put on your skin to kill bacteria should be spot-tested first. 2  Place a small dot of any new product on the skin of your inside forearm. 3  Wait 8 to 12 hours to make sure you are not allergic before putting the product on your face.
So, acne can be an infection of the middle layer of the skin, the dermis, caused by several strains of bacteria. 8. The dermis since it is the middle layer of the skin is very hard to access with products that can kill p. acnes, even though p. acnes is normally fairly easy to kill with over-the-counter products. 9.
The problem with some of these products is that they can also kill the skin. This article reviews the 10 most commonly used products for getting rid of acne infections, their pros and their cons. But first let’s take a closer look at how acne bacteria cause, or don’t cause, blemished skin.
Bad bacteria are extremely hard to kill in the skin – but this is our challenge. We can not emphasize enough how important it is to have some good knowledge about your skin and these little critters that are wrecking havoc to your skin tissue – and probably to your life.