Nutritional Information. Crawfish are an excellent source of protein. Fat content of washed crawfish tail meat is only about 1% of the Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA). Crawfish muscle fibers are shorter than the muscle fibers in red meats and are more easily digested. They are also low in calories, fat and saturated fat, and a good source of vitamins. Nutrients in crawfish: 1 Large, mature crawfish have a lower yield of meat per pound than immature crawfish. 2  Although crawfish tend to be higher in cholesterol than most other shellfish, a 31⁄2- ounce serving provides only about half of the daily recommended allowance.
Calories in Crawfish. It’s crawfish season! I’ve already been to a few boils myself this year and I was curious how any calories I was really eating. Or, rather, how much everyone else was eating…. Crawfish are freshwater crustaceans and abundant in the swamps and marshes of south Louisiana. Sometimes they are also called crayfish. 6 to 7 lbs of raw crawfish yields about 1 lb. of tail meat. So how bad is it? For a whole pound of meat it’s about 370 calories! 
There are 61 calories in 3 ounces of Crayfish (Crawfish). Calorie breakdown: 12% fat, 0% carbs, 88% protein. Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.
Crawfish is packed with protein and contains no carbohydrates. A 5-ounce serving of crawfish contains close to 25 grams of protein. Crawfish is rich in minerals such as calcium, magnesium, iron and especially phosphorous and potassium. They are low in saturated fat and total fat, with a 5-ounce serving containing less than 1/2 gram of saturated fat. Like some seafood, crawfish is high in cholesterol. A 5-ounce serving contains close to 200 milligrams. This is something to pay attention to if you are following a restricted-cholesterol diet.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: go here http://www.crawfish.org/nutrition.htm Crayfish tails are low in calories and high in nutritive value. A quarter-pound serving of crayfish tails contains only 82 calories, compared to 242 calories of ground beef
Wild cooked crayfish have 70 calories per 3 oz serving, or 368 calories per pound. Source(s): http://www.calorieking.com/foods/calorie... ahi_tuna_extra_rare · 10 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: go here http://www.crawfish.org/nutrition.htm Crayfish tails are low in calories and high in nutritive value. A quarter-pound serving of crayfish tails contains only 82 calories, compared to 242 calories of ground beef