Share this conversation. Expert: Dr. Charles replied 5 years ago. Edited by doctor_charles on 6/27/2010 at 3:42 PM EST. Hello It is generally recommended that people over the age of 75 may be able to stop colonoscopy screening if they have had a clean bill of health. So as you are 76 years old now, if you have continuous negative report of colonoscopy, you can stop it further more. 
The rule of thumb is that if any first-degree relative was diagnosed with colon cancer or polyps, you should be screened 10 years before the youngest case in the immediate family. For example, if your mother was diagnosed at age 45 with colon cancer, you should have your first screening at age 35. Recent studies are showing that family history plays a more important role than previously thought.
That is an excellent question. Most of the time colonoscopies are performed to screen for colon cancer. Colon cancer arises from colon polyps most of the time. If you get a colonoscopy and have any polyps removed, you eliminate the chance of getting colon cancer. If you were to get colon cancer (because you did not get screened) the treatment requires surgery and often times chemotherapy.
If you are 85 years old, you may not tolerate this very well. Additionally, if you are 85 and in poor health you would likely die of another disease before you died of colon cancer. It is for this reason that it may not be of benefit to have a screening colonoscopy. However, if you are 85 years old and in great health I would STRONGLY recommend continuing your screening colonoscopies. I hope this helps. Colon cancer arises from colon polyps most of the time. If you get a colonoscopy and have any polyps removed, you eliminate the chance of getting colon cancer. If you were to get colon cancer (because you did not get screened) the treatment requires surgery and often times chemotherapy.
People older than age 75 who have been getting regular colon cancer screening since age 50 and who have had consistently negative screenings — no polyps (adenomas) or colon cancer — and are not at an increased risk of colon cancer because of family history need not continue getting routine screening. That's according to colon cancer screening guidelines issued by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and the American College of Physicians (ACP).
The age at which you should get your colonoscopy is sometimes known as your “colonoscopy age.” Adults who are at average risk for colon cancer should have a baseline colonoscopy at the age of 50 and every 10 years thereafter if the colonoscopy is clear, but age 50 is not the magic number for all people. For example, if your mother was diagnosed at age 45 with colon cancer, you should have your first screening at age 35. Recent studies are showing that family history plays a more important role than previously thought.
But in 2008, just a few months after Mr. Fullington’s colonoscopy, the United States Preventive Services Task Force reviewed years of research and recommended against routine screening for colorectal cancer in adults over age 75 and against any screening in those over 85. But you may not hear much about when colon cancer screening should stop. Even the Fight Colorectal Cancer Web site, from the major advocacy group working to make Americans aware of the disease and its prevention, says that all adults over age 50 should be screened. “Don’t wait. Talk to your doctor,” it urges.
The USPSTF and ACP recommend that colon cancer screening be done using high-sensitivity fecal occult blood testing (FOBT), sigmoidoscopy with FOBT or colonoscopy. Talk with your doctor about what colon cancer screening option is best for you. That's according to colon cancer screening guidelines issued by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and the American College of Physicians (ACP).
Now federal guidelines suggest that most people can stop getting colonoscopies after age 75. In general, the risk of cancer among young adults is so low that screening healthy young people (who don’t have unusual risk factors) doesn’t make sense. 
Medical guidelines call for a repeat test 10 years after the first negative colonoscopy, but their study found that nearly half of patients with negative colonoscopies had another in less than seven years, often within three or five. About a quarter took place without any clear medical indication. But you may not hear much about when colon cancer screening should stop. Even the Fight Colorectal Cancer Web site, from the major advocacy group working to make Americans aware of the disease and its prevention, says that all adults over age 50 should be screened. “Don’t wait. Talk to your doctor,” it urges.