Also called reference data master data is any information that is considered to play a key role in the core operation of a business. Master data may include data about clients and customers, employees, inventory, suppliers, analytics and more. 
Summary. A transaction-centric definition of reference data is a symptom of fragmented business and technology processes, and is among the difficulties the investment industry faces in moving to more-holistic, enterprise management of reference data. Table of Contents.
A further difference between reference data and master data is that a change to the reference data values may require an associated change in business process to support the change; a change in master data will always be managed as part of existing business processes. Reference data gains in value when it is widely re-used and widely referenced. Typically, it does not change overly much in terms of definition (apart from occasional revisions).
Reference data refers to data that is used to categorize other data within enterprise applications and databases. Reference data includes the lookup table and code table data that is found in virtually every enterprise application, such as country codes, currency codes, and industry codes. Reference data is distinct from transactional data and master data. Transactional data is the data that is produced by transactions within applications; master data is the data that represents the key business entities that participate within transactions. Reference data is a key aspect of any application integration. Today, many enterprises have no centralized enterprise governance and management over reference data.
Master data is the core data that is essential to operations in a specific business or business unit. The kinds of information treated as master data varies from one industry to another and even from one company to another within the same industry. 
Reference Data versus Master Data. The terms ”Reference Data” and ”Master Data” has always been hard to define not to say differentiate. This piece from Malcolm Chisholm from 2006 explains about it here. So Reference Data:
Reference data is data that defines the set of permissible values to be used by other data fields. Reference data gains in value when it is widely re-used and widely referenced. Typically, it does not change overly much in terms of definition (apart from occasional revisions). Reference data often is defined by standards organizations (such as country codes as defined in ISO 3166-1)
Back to Index. Definition: Reference Data is any type of data related to financial transactions that does not change in realtime, including identifier information, pricing data, issuing company (of a security), and outstanding corporate actions (related to an instrument).
An example would be order statuses and their related codes, such as “canceled” and its related code, “CN,” required for reference purposes in an online order system. Reference data is generally uniform, company-wide, and can be either created within a country or by external standardization bodies. Some types of reference data, such as currencies and currency codes, are always standardized. Others, such as the positions of employees within an organization, are less standardized. As a part of transactional records, reference data are grouped with associated master data and transactional data.