gentile-a Christian; Christians refer to themselves as gentiles. Christian-a religious person who believes Jesus is the Christ and who is a member of a Christian denomination.
Gentile. n. 1. (Judaism) a person who is not a Jew. 2. (Ecclesiastical Terms) a Christian, as contrasted with a Jew. 3. (Protestantism) a person who is not a member of one's own church: used esp by Mormons. 4. (Ecclesiastical Terms) a heathen or pagan. adj. 5.
Gentile. The term Gentile is used by English translators for the Hebrew גוי and נכרי in the Hebrew Bible and the Greek word ἔθνη in the New Testament. The term gentiles is derived from Latin, used for contextual translation, and not an original Hebrew or Greek word from the Bible.
Full Definition of GENTILE. 1. often capitalized: a person of a non-Jewish nation or of non-Jewish faith; especially: a Christian as distinguished from a Jew. 2. : heathen, pagan. 3. often capitalized: a non-Mormon. See gentile defined for English-language learners. See gentile defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Latin and later English translators selectively used the term gentiles when the context for the base term peoples or nations referred to non-Israelite peoples or nations in English translations of the Bible. Following Christianization of the Roman Empire, the general implication of the word gentile became non-Jew.
gentile-a person who is not a member of one's own religion; used in this sense by Mormons and Hindus. individual, mortal, person, somebody, someone, soul-a human being; there was too much for one person to do.
Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Gentiles. (Heb., usually in plural, goyim), meaning in general all nations except the Jews. In course of time, as the Jews began more and more to pride themselves on their peculiar privileges, it acquired unpleasant associations, and was used as a term of contempt.
Gentile or Goy (from Latin gentilis, by the French gentil, feminine: gentille, meaning of or belonging to a clan or tribe) is an ethnonym that commonly means non–Jew. Other groups that claim Israelite heritage sometimes use the term to describe outsiders.