Driveway asphalt can last for years without needing to be repaired, as it is a form of concrete. Having someone come out to your home to apply driveway asphalt can cost you thousands of dollars. This is unnecessary since you can make your own driveway asphalt at home and do it yourself. The article below will show you how to mix your own asphalt. Step 1 – Heating the Crude Oil. The main part of driveway asphalt is the crude oil. This oil is typically the remnants left after the processing of oil has been completed. Crude oil is very thick when it has cooled, so it has to be heated in order to be used.
If you are laying your own concrete instead of having a contractor do it, more power to you! Before you start your patio, sidewalk, or driveway, you will need to figure out what kind of concrete to use. You will also need to learn how to mix your own concrete, pour it, and reinforce it. 
8. Choose an asphalt size and thickness. 1  The size of the aggregate used to create asphalt pavement ranges from 1/2 inch to 3/4 inch (1.27 cm to 1.9 cm). 2  Smaller aggregate is usually used for residential driveways because it gives a smoother appearance. 3  If the aggregate is larger, however, the pavement is stronger. 1 Run a hose at the top of your driveway to determine where the water runs. 2  Build mounds and fill in low spots to achieve the proper grade. 3  An optimal slope is 1/4 inch per foot (0.635 cm per 30.48 cm).
1 The size of the aggregate used to create asphalt pavement ranges from 1/2 inch to 3/4 inch (1.27 cm to 1.9 cm). 2  Smaller aggregate is usually used for residential driveways because it gives a smoother appearance. 3  If the aggregate is larger, however, the pavement is stronger. 1 Run a hose at the top of your driveway to determine where the water runs. 2  Build mounds and fill in low spots to achieve the proper grade. 3  An optimal slope is 1/4 inch per foot (0.635 cm per 30.48 cm).
Step 3 – Mixing Driveway Asphalt. Now that the gravels are mixed together and the crude oil is liquid, you can mix the two together. Make sure you are wearing your old clothes, preferably layers and other safety articles. Step 1 – Heating the Crude Oil. The main part of driveway asphalt is the crude oil. This oil is typically the remnants left after the processing of oil has been completed. Crude oil is very thick when it has cooled, so it has to be heated in order to be used.
S.McAuley-Pennsylvania. I sealed two driveways with your how to seal a driveway system using the 1 step 2 coat method. My 1st driveway is about 9' x 110'. Drive #2 is fairly large and has a big circle turnaround at the house end, app 2350 sq'. We've been in the driveway business for over a decade and we can show you how to seal your driveway JUST AS GOOD AS THE PROFESSIONALS! Save $$$ Hundreds if not $$$ Thousands Of Dollars! Register TODAY and we'll keep you up to date with the most cutting edge asphalt maintenance materials on the market.
Step 2 – The Base. Driveway asphalt consists of whole pieces of gravel and crushed gravel. Both of these materials can be found at your local home improvement center. Typically, the material will be located in the landscaping section. Step 1 – Heating the Crude Oil. The main part of driveway asphalt is the crude oil. This oil is typically the remnants left after the processing of oil has been completed. Crude oil is very thick when it has cooled, so it has to be heated in order to be used.
Save. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Making your own asphalt driveway is hard work, and not a job for one person. If you have friends who will help you, it is possible to save a lot of money by doing your own driveway, even after the cost of rental equipment is factored in. Paving Your Driveway. The proper method of paving a driveway for the longest life is a two-stage process. Lay down a layer of binder asphalt first and then a top coat. Your asphalt supplier should have a product called driveway binder that you can start with.