spirits. noun strong alcohol, liquor, the hard stuff (informal), firewater, strong liquor He's stopped drinking spirits these days. 
While God's Spirit is holy, reference is made to unclean, evil, and demonic spirits that are injurious to relationships with God and other humans. There are a few passages that see the spirit as disembodied (2 Cor 5:1-5; Heb 12:23; 1 Peter 3:19). 
(Theol.) the Spirit of God, or the third person of the Trinity; the Holy Ghost. The spirit also signifies the human spirit as influenced or animated by the Divine Spirit. Proof spirit. (Chem.) See under Proof. The intelligent, immaterial and immortal part of man; the soul, in distinction from the body in which it resides; the agent or subject of vital and spiritual functions, whether spiritual or material. There is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. - Job xxxii.
[noncount] : the real meaning or intention of something (such as a law). They seem to be more concerned with obeying the letter of the law than with understanding the spirit of the law. [=what was intended by the law when it was written]. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 8. Save. spirit /ˈspirət/ noun. plural spirits. spirit. /ˈspirət/. noun. plural spirits. Learner's definition of SPIRIT. 1. a: the force within a person that is believed to give the body life, energy, and power. [count]. the spirits of my ancestors. Some religions believe that the same spirit is reincarnated many times in different bodies
noun. The definition of spirit is the soul of a living being, a ghost, mood or loyalty. 1  An example of spirit is a person's character. 2  An example of a spirit is the soul of a dead person trapped in the house in which they had lived. 3  An example of spirit is a hospital patient who has a positive attitude: in good spirit
Spirit. Spirit is a difficult word to define. It is the part of the conscious person, that aspect of awareness that animates our bodies. Biblically it is sometimes used synonymously with soul (Job. 7:11; Isa. 26:9). It is often used in reference to a person’s most inward thoughts (1 Cor. 2:11)
The Holy Spirit is the third person in the Trinity. He is fully God. He is eternal, omniscient, omnipresent, has a will, and can speak. He is alive. by Matt Slick. The Holy Spirit is the third person in the Trinity. He is fully God. He is eternal, omniscient, omnipresent, has a will, and can speak. He is alive. He is a person. He is not particularly visible in the Bible because His ministry is to bear witness of Jesus (John 15:26).