0. All Target Corp. employees will be paid at least $9 per hour starting in April. The news comes just a couple of months after Target's biggest competitors, Wal-Mart and TJX, do the same. Wal-Mart will also pay employees with at least six months training a minimum of $10 per hour. Earlier this month, Target Chief Financial Officer John Mulligan said that it was unreasonable to raise the minimum wage across the country and that wages needed to be adjusted for each particular market.
About: Target Corporation, doing business as Target, is an American retailing company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It is the second-largest discount retailer in the United States, behind Walmart. The company is ranked at number 33 on the Fortune 500 as of 2010 and is a component of the Standard & Poor's…. 
By. Target Corp. plans to boost pay of all its workers to at least $9 an hour starting next month, following similar moves by rivals Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and TJX Cos. as competition for lower wage workers heats up. 
The average Target salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Loader to $200,000 per year for Group Manager. Average Target hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.45 per hour for Sales Specialist to $64.00 per hour for Pharmacist. Salary information comes from 11,583 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
Target plans to raise the minimum wage it pays employees to $9 an hour starting next month, Bloomberg reports, citing a source “with knowledge of the matter.” The decision, if true, would make Target the latest addition to a list of big retailers that have upped their worker pay in recent months. Walmart’s mid-February announcement that it would raise its hourly minimum to $9 for full-time workers was likely the most important factor in tipping Target’s scale. But across retail, prospects for workers are looking up.
Depends on where you work. Regular retail associates make in the $9 an hour range, supervisory retail roles in the $14 range. Money is at there distribution centers where i work. Depending on what your job is it ranges from $13.91-16.85 to start. the higher being for warehouse workers ie. 
Walmart, Gap, Ikea, and TJX, the parent of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, have also made similar changes. Walmart’s mid-February announcement that it would raise its hourly minimum to $9 for full-time workers was likely the most important factor in tipping Target’s scale. But across retail, prospects for workers are looking up.
I worked in a Seattle store during the summer before college and part time for another year (2001-2002). It was $7.25/hour to start, and if you do well on your performance review 9 months after your start date (if I recall the timeline correctly...), you get a whopping 25 cent raise. WHOA. 25 cents. I am gonna be rich. Written 12 Aug 2011 • View Upvotes.
store hourly careers. Whether shopping in store, online or on the go, we hope to delight and inspire our guests; and have lots of fun. As a store team member, you’ll be the heart of the shopping experience. store hourly. Our guests love Target’s quality, value, selection and great service. So when you join the best team in retail, you dedicate yourself to creating amazing experiences each and every time they shop with us.
Target Corp. is planning to raise its minimum wage to $9 per hour starting in April, the big box retailer announced Wednesday. The pay raise followed similar raises earlier this year by Target’s competitors, Wal-Mart and TJX, which owns T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and HomeGoods. Wal-Mart will also pay employees with at least six months training a minimum of $10 per hour. Earlier this month, Target Chief Financial Officer John Mulligan said that it was unreasonable to raise the minimum wage across the country and that wages needed to be adjusted for each particular market.