Solar energy is converted into chemical energy. Photosynthesis is the process whereby plants using light energy from the sun convert carbon dioxide and water to glucose sugar and oxygen gas through a series of reactions. The overall equation for photosynthesis is. Light energy from the sun is converted into chemical energy by the production of glucose molecules. Photosynthesis is carried out in the chloroplasts of plant cells using the green pigment chlorophyll. Glucose is produced which is converted into starch.
Photosynthesis uses the energy of light to make the sugar, glucose. A simplified general equation for photosynthesis follows. 6 CO2 + 12 H2O + light → C6H12O6 + 6 O2 + 6 H2O Carbon Dioxide + Water + Light energy → Glucose + Oxygen + Water Photosynthesis occurs in two stages.
Photosynthesis (photo = light and synthesis = to make) is the process plants use to change carbon dioxide and water into sugar using sunlight. This sugar, glucose, is their food, and the process gives off oxygen. Photosynthesis is the conversion of light energy into chemical energy by living organisms.
But because water is both a reactant and a product, the equation can be simplified accounting for net water consumption, which is: 6 CO 2 + 6 H 2 O → C 6 H 12 O 6 + 6 O 2 Carbon dioxide + Water + Light energy → Glucose + Oxygen. Photosynthesis is a lot more complicated than the simplified diagram above.
Photosynthesis converts light energy into the chemical energy of sugars and other organic compounds. This process consists of a series of chemical reactions that require carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water (H 2 O) and store chemical energy in the form of sugar. Light energy from light drives the reactions.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants in which energy from sunlight is used to convert carbon dioxide and water into molecules needed for growth. These molecules include sugars, enzymes and chlorophyll. Light energy is absorbed by the green chemical
Photosynthesis is the process in plants and certain other organisms that uses the energy from the sun to convert carbon dioxide and water into glucose (a sugar) and oxygen. The overall balanced chemical equation for the reaction is: 6 CO 2 + 6 H 2 O → C 6 H 12 O 6 + 6 O 2. Where: