CF is caused by a mutation in the gene cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). The most common mutation, δF508, is a deletion (δ signifying deletion) of three nucleotides that results in a loss of the amino acid phenylalanine (F) at the 508th position on the protein. It is caused by the presence of mutations in both copies of the gene for the protein cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Those with a single working copy are carriers and otherwise mostly normal.
CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, ATP-binding cassette (sub-family C, member 7)) is a human gene that provides instructions for making a protein called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Associated Disorders: Defective versions of this protein, caused by CFTR gene mutations, can lead to the development of cystic fibrosis (CF) and congenital bilateral aplasia of the vas deferens (CBAVD). You can click on this link to see a diagram of the gene: http://www.ornl.gov/sci/techresources/Hu...
The CFTR gene provides instructions for making a protein called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. This protein functions as a channel across the membrane of cells that produce mucus, sweat, saliva, tears, and digestive enzymes. 
Cystic fibrosis occurs because of mutations in the gene that makes a protein called CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator). A person with CF produces abnormal CFTR protein-or no CFTR protein at all, which causes the body to make thick, sticky mucus instead of the thin, watery kind. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes in their DNA. The CF gene is found on chromosome number 7. It takes two copies of a CF gene-one inherited from each parent-for a child to show symptoms of CF. Persons born with only one CF gene (inherited from only one parent) and one normal gene are CF carriers.
Best Answer: People with cystic fibrosis inherit a defective gene on chromosome 7 called CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator). Associated Disorders: Defective versions of this protein, caused by CFTR gene mutations, can lead to the development of cystic fibrosis (CF) and congenital bilateral aplasia of the vas deferens (CBAVD). You can click on this link to see a diagram of the gene: http://www.ornl.gov/sci/techresources/Hu...
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: People with cystic fibrosis inherit a defective gene on chromosome 7 called CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator). The protein produced by this gene normally helps salt (sodium chloride) move in and out of cells. Associated Disorders: Defective versions of this protein, caused by CFTR gene mutations, can lead to the development of cystic fibrosis (CF) and congenital bilateral aplasia of the vas deferens (CBAVD). You can click on this link to see a diagram of the gene: http://www.ornl.gov/sci/techresources/Hu...
1. Cystic fibrosis is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease that affects many body systems. It is caused by mutations to the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Located on human chromosome 7, the CFTR gene is made up of 250,000 DNA nucleotides
Genes are found on structures in the cells of the body called chromosomes. Each cell normally contains 46 total, or 23 pairs of chromosomes. The seventh pair of chromosomes contains a gene called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) gene. Mutations or errors in this gene are what cause CF. This gene is quite large and complex. More than 1,800 different mutations in this gene have been found that cause CF. According to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, the risk for having a mutation in the gene for CF depends on your ethnic background if you have no family history of CF: Ethnic Background. Risk of CF Mutation.
Cystic Fibrosis affects both males and females, but is not contagious to healthy individuals. Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease caused by mutations (changes) in a gene on chromosome 7, one of the 23 pairs of chromosomes that children inherit from their parents. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes in their DNA. The CF gene is found on chromosome number 7. It takes two copies of a CF gene-one inherited from each parent-for a child to show symptoms of CF. Persons born with only one CF gene (inherited from only one parent) and one normal gene are CF carriers.
Different people may have different degrees of symptoms. CF is an autosomal recessive disorder. It is caused by the presence of mutations in both copies of the gene for the protein cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Those with a single working copy are carriers and otherwise mostly normal.