The summary is, you’re going to pay one way or another. The only question is when and how much will it cost you over what it should have. Do it the least expensive way you can but test, test and test some more. I don’t know what architects make but professional pattern makers charge between $30 and $75 an hour. Now on to the topic at hand, this is a question I get all the time. I’ll bet many of you hear it too. Here’s two examples: I have a friend who wants to prototype a handbag and she’s not sure how much to pay someone to do so.
Once you have an idea of what one prototype will cost, be sure to take into consideration what several will cost. Some industries will not charge the same amount for second prototypes since most of the design work has been done, but this is something to verify from the start. 1 In most other products, it will take several prototypes to get to a model that will be sellable. 2  This can weigh heavily on any investors budget. 3  You should have a development budget in mind when you start the prototype phase of your products invention, but make sure that it is reasonable.
$1,000 to $14,000. Estimated cost of designing and building a prototype. “If you decide to have a product development company design and build your prototype, be aware that the cost will vary depending on your idea. [T-2 Design Corp. of Santa Monica, California] charges $60 per hour.
I don’t know the proportion of materials cost to total price that go into a home but I’d guess maybe 35% to 50% depending on amenities and whether land (which can also vary wildly) is included. By comparison, the materials cost of building a prototype sewn product will be very low, maybe 10% of the total. Now on to the topic at hand, this is a question I get all the time. I’ll bet many of you hear it too. Here’s two examples: I have a friend who wants to prototype a handbag and she’s not sure how much to pay someone to do so.
1 You have to figure out how much a working prototype will cost to make. 2  Remember one copy might be very expensive to make. 3  Mass production brings down the cost per unit. 4  If you can make your own prototype and you can afford it, do it. 5  Do your research on the latest methods and alternatives. 1 If you can make your own prototype and you can afford it, do it. 2  Do your research on the latest methods and alternatives. 3  For example, plastic injection molds are expensive, however, a method of CAD called Rapid Prototyping is an alternative. 4  Depending on your invention, your prototype
Berman estimates the cost of designing and building a prototype to be anywhere from $1,000 to $14,000, depending on the complexity of the product. For prototypes with simple electronics, the starting point is approximately $3,500. Estimated cost of designing and building a prototype. “If you decide to have a product development company design and build your prototype, be aware that the cost will vary depending on your idea. [T-2 Design Corp. of Santa Monica, California] charges $60 per hour.
1 Depending on your invention, your prototype might be very expensive to make. 2  If that is the case you might want to produce a virtual prototype. 3  Today, computer programs can simulate an invention in 3D and can test that an invention does work. 1 If you can make your own prototype and you can afford it, do it. 2  Do your research on the latest methods and alternatives. 3  For example, plastic injection molds are expensive, however, a method of CAD called Rapid Prototyping is an alternative. 4 
Cost of a mold. It's important to build a $500 prototype and test it out and make sure it works before spending $20,000 on a mold, (Brian Miller of PRe Plastics quoted in Thuy-Doan Le, “Entrepreneurial spirit starts to pay off for Sacramento, Calif.-area inventor,” The Sacramento Bee, December 12, 2004). Estimated cost of designing and building a prototype. “If you decide to have a product development company design and build your prototype, be aware that the cost will vary depending on your idea. [T-2 Design Corp. of Santa Monica, California] charges $60 per hour.
$500. Target cost for a prototype. It's important to build a $500 prototype and test it out and make sure it works before spending $20,000 on a mold, Low cost prototype. Estimated cost of designing and building a prototype. “If you decide to have a product development company design and build your prototype, be aware that the cost will vary depending on your idea. [T-2 Design Corp. of Santa Monica, California] charges $60 per hour.
A 4″ figure, not too big and not too small, can be expected to cost around $400. It can be more or less depending on resolution, finish, and material, but let’s say it’s $400. The same figure, scaled up to 5″, can cost around $650. And scaled up to 6″, the cost might hit $800. Pump that figure up to 12″ and the cost might break $2000. The price is affected by the volume, not the height, of the figure. A 1″x1″x1″ cube is, requires simply 1 cubic inch of material to print. A 3″x3″x3″ cube requires 27 cubic inches of material to print. The 3″ cube might only be 3x as tall, but it’s 27x as massive.