n. 1. (Geological Science) Also called: fault plane geology the surface of a fault fracture along which the rocks have been displaced. 2. a potentially disruptive division or area of contention: Europe remains the main fault line in the Tory Party. 
Part of the San Andreas fault. The definition of a fault is a weakness in the rock strata that can shift and create an earthquake. An example of fault is the San Andreas fault line in California. Fault means a mistake or a weakness. An example of fault is having a problem telling the truth. Fault is defined as to blame or to commit a mistake. 1  An example of fault is for a child to blame a broken vase on his brother. 
Earthquakes and Faults. A fault line is a fracture along which the crust has moved. Stresses in the crust along New Zealand’s plate boundary have broken it into separate fragments or blocks that move relative to each other along fault lines. To watch a video flyover of the Greendale Fault in Canterbury click here
Meaning: (geology) line determined by the intersection of a geological fault and the earth's surface. Classified under: Nouns denoting spatial position. Hypernyms (fault line is a kind of...): line (a spatial location defined by a real or imaginary unidimensional extent). Domain category: • FAULT LINE (noun). The noun FAULT LINE has 1 sense: 1. (geology) line determined by the intersection of a geological fault and the earth's surface. Familiarity information: FAULT LINE used as a noun is very rare.
Noun. 1. fault line - (geology) line determined by the intersection of a geological fault and the earth's surface. geology-a science that deals with the history of the earth as recorded in rocks. line-a spatial location defined by a real or imaginary unidimensional extent. 1. (Geological Science) Also called: fault plane geology the surface of a fault fracture along which the rocks have been displaced. 2. a potentially disruptive division or area of contention: Europe remains the main fault line in the Tory Party.
A fault is a break in the rocks that make up the Earth’s crust, along which rocks on either side have moved past each other. Not every crack in the ground is a fault. What defines a fault is the movement of the rock on either side. When that movement is sudden, the released energy causes an earthquake. Some faults are tiny, but others are part of great fault systems along which rocks have slid past each other for hundreds of miles. 
noun. Evidence of a fault line. Evidence of a fault line. The definition of a fault line is a break or fracture in the ground that occurs when the Earth's tectonic plates move or shift and are areas where earthquakes are likely to occur. A break where the Earth's tectonic plates shifted that is a likely site of an earthquake is an example of a fault line. 
Fault line redirects here. For other uses, see Fault line (disambiguation) . In geology, a fault is a planar fracture or discontinuity in a volume of rock, across which there has been significant displacement as a result of rock mass movement. 