In addition to stone tools, Homo habilis probably made simple implements out of wood and other highly perishable materials that have not survived. In the 1940's, Raymond Dart suggested that australopithecines and early humans also used the hard body parts of animals as clubs, daggers, and other sorts of weapons. This idea has been rejected by most paleoanthropologists today since there is a lack of evidence for the systematic shaping or even use of these materials for weapons or other types of tools at this early time. In addition, it is unlikely that the earliest humans were aggressive hunters.
Confidence votes 1.6K. Homo sapiens were not the first creatures on earth to use tools. Earlier species of Homo, such as Neanderthals used tools several hundred thousand years before our species first entered the scene. There were other tool using hominid species that preceded them.
Homo sapiens sapiens (modern humans) first evolved between 200,000 BC and 100,000 BC. They were like us, physically, and had the same brain power. They developed many skills of survival, and advanced FLINT-KNAPPING techniques for making better tools. 
Many animals use basic tools, and the fact that chimps use tools means it's very likely that our last shared ancestor used them too around 7 million years ago. Tool use may also have been seen before then in other animals. Earlier species of Homo, such as Neanderthals used tools several hundred thousand years before our species first entered the scene. There were other tool using hominid species that preceded them.
The topic typically focuses on the evolutionary history of the primates —in particular the genus Homo, and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of the hominids (or great apes)—rather than studying the earlier history that led to the primates. Homo habilis lived from about 2.8 to 1.4 Ma. The species evolved in South and East Africa in the Late Pliocene or Early Pleistocene, 2.5–2 Ma, when it diverged from the australopithecines. Homo habilis had smaller molars and larger brains than the australopithecines, and made tools from stone and perhaps animal bones.
Homo habilis made and used stone tools in the Oldowan tradition for nearly a million years but with gradual improvements over time. The early Homo erectus also used what could be described as advanced or evolved Oldowan tool making techniques. This idea has been rejected by most paleoanthropologists today since there is a lack of evidence for the systematic shaping or even use of these materials for weapons or other types of tools at this early time. In addition, it is unlikely that the earliest humans were aggressive hunters.
Editor's Note: This is Part 8 in a 10-part LiveScience series on the origin, evolution and future of the human species and the mysteries that remain to be solved. The way humans make and use tools is perhaps what sets our species apart more than anything else. Now scientists are more and more uncovering the forces that drove our lineage to our heights of tool use — and how tool use, in turn, might have influenced our evolution. The first stone tools — the Oldowan. As tool use evolved, somewhere along the line, there had to have been really important changes in social evolution, Wynn said. Scientists argue, for instance, when provisioning or the sharing of food began.
Scientists have made experimental stone tools and used them to butcher modern animals. There is a strong similarity between the marks their tools made and the marks on fossil animal bones, indicating that early humans used stone tools to butcher animals by at least 2.6 million years ago. Handaxes came in handy. Beginning 1.7 million years ago.
Early modern Homo sapiens in Africa and Southwest Asia 100,000 years ago made tools that were similar to those of the Neandertals and other late archaic humans. These were mostly simple Mousterian-like Levallois flake and core tools. 
It should be noted that many species make and use tools, but it is the human genus that dominates the areas of making and using more complex tools. The oldest known tools are the Oldowan stone tools from Ethiopia, 2.5–2.6 million years old. Homo habilis lived from about 2.8 to 1.4 Ma. The species evolved in South and East Africa in the Late Pliocene or Early Pleistocene, 2.5–2 Ma, when it diverged from the australopithecines. Homo habilis had smaller molars and larger brains than the australopithecines, and made tools from stone and perhaps animal bones.