Report Abuse. Most space heaters use the same amount of electricity as a hair dryer. They are usually around 1000 to 1850 watts. As for an increase in you electric bill, yes, you will see an increase, after all, you are using electric. Best Answer: In general, space heaters run from 1000-1500W. Running one for 8 hours will cost you 8-12 kWH, which is the unit of measure your electric company uses. The charge per kWH varies widely from place to place. You can get your rate from your most recent bill. Multiply the rate by the usage to figure your cost
Space heaters are typically not an efficient means of heating, especially compared to a central heat pump, geothermal heating, or solar energy. Small electric heaters can use about 3,000 watts (about 10,000 BTU/hr) and larger ones may use over 11,000 watts (about 40,000 BTU/hr). Fuel powered portable heaters are often less expensive to run, using about 2,300 watts (7,848 BTU/hr) to 4,100 watts (13,990 BTU/hr). Electricity is one of the most expensive energies to use to heat an area, costing about twice as much as natural gas to produce the same amount of heat. It is important to note that portable heaters are rated for specific room sizes. If a small heater is used in a large room, it will use a great deal of energy without providing enough heat. A large heater in a small space will use excessive energy and provide too much heat.
Cost. Electric companies charge consumers by the kilowatt-hour, and rates vary from company to company and can depend on how much electricity you use and the season. For example, the Pacific Gas & Electric Company base rate is from $0.08 to $0.13 for base usage and from $0.27 to $0.34 for heavy usage. Multiply your applicable rate by the number of kilowatt-hours the heater consumes to find out how much it costs to operate. For example, for a consumer who pays the base rate in winter, PG&E charges about three dollars for the electricity to run a 1500-watt heater for 24 hours. That's about $90 for a month of continuous use.
Electricity usage of a Space Heater. Space heaters are portable electric devices used for heating up a single room or an area of the house. Convection space heaters heat up a room by heating up the air, most common convection space heaters will use around 1500 watts. Click calculate to find the energy consumption of a space heater using 1500 Watts for 5 hours a day @ $0.10 per a kWh. Cost Per Hour: 
how much electricity does a space heater draw? what is a ballpark range for wattage and what can I expect my monthly increase in my electric bill to be if one runs for 8 hours each night? Best Answer: In general, space heaters run from 1000-1500W. Running one for 8 hours will cost you 8-12 kWH, which is the unit of measure your electric company uses. The charge per kWH varies widely from place to place. You can get your rate from your most recent bill. Multiply the rate by the usage to figure your cost.
Cost of electricity. Example: If you have a 1000 watt heater that operates 1 hour a month and costs $1.00 per kilowatt for electricity, then it will cost $1.00 to operate the heater for the month. more simply put-from my own experience a helluva lot!! A little more explanationYou pay for electricity by the kilowatt-hour.
A typical portable space heater will generally use 1,500 watts on the high setting. This 1,500 watt heater running for 5 hours a day during a 30-day month will cost $22.50 at a rate of $0.10 per kilowatt hour. Check your local rates to determine actual cost per kilowatt hour. Portable space heaters are small, electric resistance heating units. Regardless of the shape, size or type of electric heating element found in an electric space heater, virtually all power drawn is converted into heat. The cost of operating an electric heater depends on how much heat the unit is delivering.
On average an infrared heater costs about $50-$400. Depending on the strength of the model and how much heat is produced depends on how much it costs to operate. Electric models usually feature a low watt energy draw so they cost only pennies to run. If you use an outdoor propane or natural gas heater your cost will depend on the current cost of gas products. 