edit Definitions of QA and QC. 1  Quality Assurance (QA) refers to the process used to create the deliverables, and can be performed by a manager, client, or even a third-party reviewer. 2  Quality Control (QC) refers to quality related activities associated with the creation of project deliverables. 3  Quality control is about adherence to requirements. 4  Qu Quality control is usually the responsibility of a specific team that tests the product for defects. Example. Verification is an example of QA. Validation/Software Testing is an example of QC. Statistical Techniques. Statistical Tools & Techniques can be applied in both QA & QC.
One definition for quality control is: the operational techniques and activities used to fulfill requirements for quality. Often, however, “quality assurance” and “quality control” are used interchangeably, referring to the actions performed to ensure the quality of a product, service or process. Quality: A subjective term for which each person or sector has its own definition. In technical usage, quality can have two meanings: 1. the characteristics of a product or service that bear on its ability to satisfy stated or implied needs; 2. a product or service free of deficiencies.
Quality Control: The observation techniques and activities used to fulfill requirements for quality. The terms “quality assurance” and “quality control” are often used interchangeably to refer to ways of ensuring the quality of a service or product. The terms, however, have different meanings. Assurance: The act of giving confidence, the state of being certain or the act of making certain. Quality Assurance: The planned and systematic activities implemented in a quality system so that quality requirements for a product or service will be fulfilled.
QA is defined as a procedure or set of procedures intended to ensure that a product or service under development (before work is complete, as opposed to afterwards) meets specified requirements. QA is sometimes expressed together with QC as a single expression, quality assurance and control (QA/QC). In order to implement an effective QC program, an enterprise must first decide which specific standards the product or service must meet.
Oracle Application Testing Suite. In developing products and services, quality assurance is any systematic process of checking to see whether a product or service being developed is meeting specified requirements. Many companies have a separate department devoted to quality assurance. 
Quality Assurance vs. Quality Control. The terms “quality assurance” and “quality control” are often used interchangeably to refer to ways of ensuring the quality of a service or product. The terms, however, have different meanings. Assurance: The act of giving confidence, the state of being certain or the act of making certain. Quality Assurance: The planned and systematic activities implemented in a quality system so that quality requirements for a product or service will be fulfilled.
edit Definitions of QA and QC. 1  Quality Assurance (QA) refers to the process used to create the deliverables, and can be performed by a manager, client, or even a third-party reviewer. 2  Examples of quality assurance include process checklists, project audits and methodology and standards development. Quality control is usually the responsibility of a specific team that tests the product for defects. Example. Verification is an example of QA. Validation/Software Testing is an example of QC. Statistical Techniques. Statistical Tools & Techniques can be applied in both QA & QC.
Quality control (QC) is a procedure or set of procedures intended to ensure that a manufactured product or performed service adheres to a defined set of quality criteria or meets the requirements of the client or customer. QC is similar to, but not identical with, quality assurance (QA). QA is sometimes expressed together with QC as a single expression, quality assurance and control (QA/QC). In order to implement an effective QC program, an enterprise must first decide which specific standards the product or service must meet.
Look up QA/QC in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. QA/QC is the combination of quality assurance, the process or set of processes used to measure and assure the quality of a product, and quality control, the process of ensuring products and services meet consumer expectations. 
Definition. QA is a set of activities for ensuring quality in the processes by which products are developed. QC is a set of activities for ensuring quality in products. The activities focus on identifying defects in the actual products produced. Quality control is usually the responsibility of a specific team that tests the product for defects. Example. Verification is an example of QA. Validation/Software Testing is an example of QC. Statistical Techniques. Statistical Tools & Techniques can be applied in both QA & QC.