The Vedas (/ˈveɪdəz, ˈviː-/ ; Sanskrit: वेद veda,  véda ) knowledge are a large body of texts originating in Ancient. India composed In Vedic, sanskrit the texts constitute the oldest layer Of sanskrit literature and the oldest scriptures Of. hinduism The Veda, for orthodox Indian theologians, are considered revelations seen by ancient sages after intense meditation, and texts that have been more carefully preserved since ancient times. In the Hindu Epic the Mahabharata, the creation of Vedas is credited to Brahma.
The Vedas are among the oldest sacred texts. The Samhitas date to roughly 1700–1100 BCE, and the circum-Vedic texts, as well as the redaction of the Samhitas, date to c. 1000-500 BCE, resulting in a Vedic period, spanning the mid 2nd to mid 1st millennium BCE, or the Late Bronze Age and the Iron Age. The Veda, for orthodox Indian theologians, are considered revelations seen by ancient sages after intense meditation, and texts that have been more carefully preserved since ancient times. In the Hindu Epic the Mahabharata, the creation of Vedas is credited to Brahma.
The Vedas are a collection of religious texts that form the foundation of Hindu theology. The word Veda is Sanskrit (वेद) for knowledge. Hindus believe that the Vedas texts are of divine origin and the term śruti (what is heard) refers to this. The Hindu belief that the cosmos is eternal; was not created and will always exist, also applies to the Hindu view of the Vedas. The Vedas is integrated into the life of Hindus, though many Hindus have never read it. Vedic mantras are recited at Hindu prayers, religious functions and other auspicious occasions...... The various Indian religious sects differ in their ideas about
Rig Veda. The Rigveda is the oldest and most important of the Vedas and richly contributed to other Vedas. Its hymns are called Riks. The Rigveda is also an important source of Vedic history and contains many important hymns, such as the Purusha Sukta, and Creation Hymns. Vedanta. Vedanta means the end of the Vedas, which is a reference to the Upanishads and the knowledge they contain. Vedanta deals with such existential truths as the source of existence, the nature and process of creation, the nature of reality, mortality, delusion, bondage, and liberation of souls from Samsara.
The Vedas are the primary texts of Hinduism. They also had a vast influence on Buddhism, Jainism, and Sikhism. Traditionally the text of the Vedas was coeval with the universe. Scholars have determined that the Rig Veda, the oldest of the four Vedas, was composed about 1500 B.C., and codified about 600 B.C. 
There are four Samhitas (also called Vedas): Rig Veda, Sama Veda, Yajur Veda, and Atharva Veda. Composed as early as 1500 BC, the Rig Veda or Rg Veda (Wisdom of the Verses) is the oldest of the four Vedic collections and one of the oldest surviving sacred texts in the world. In these later texts, especially the Upanishads, the polytheism of the earlier Vedas has evolved into a pantheism focused on Brahman, the supreme reality of the universe. This concept remains a key feature of Hindu philosophy today.
The Vedas (including the Brahmanas and Upanishads) constitute the sacred texts of Hinduism. Hinduism considers these texts to be sruti, a word which means heard.. The Vedas were written down by rishis (holy men who are the mythical founders of Hinduism) who heard them during deep meditation. The plural term Vedas has two related meanings in Hinduism. First, it refers to the four Veda texts: the Rig Veda, the Yajur Veda, the Sama Veda and the Atharva Veda.
The Vedas. These are the most ancient religious texts which define truth for Hindus. They got their present form between 1200-200 BCE and were introduced to India by the Aryans. Hindus believe that the texts were received by scholars direct from God and passed on to the next generations by word of mouth. Contents of the Vedas. The Vedas are made up of four compositions, and each veda in turn has four parts which are arranged chronologically. 1  The Samhitas are the most ancient part of the Vedas, consisting of hymns of praise to God.
The most sacred scriptures of Hinduism are the Vedas (Books of Knowledge), a collection of texts written in Sanskrit from about 1200 BCE to 100 CE. In these later texts, especially the Upanishads, the polytheism of the earlier Vedas has evolved into a pantheism focused on Brahman, the supreme reality of the universe. This concept remains a key feature of Hindu philosophy today.