But that's still a bargain because it would cost upwards of $90,000 per room to build a full-service hotel, such as a Holiday Inn, says Hoffman, whose small company also owns two Holiday Inns. Turf's Holiday Inn Express operates at a 79% occupancy rate with room rates at about $105 per night. Similarly, an average Hampton Inn with 80 rooms costs between $6 million and $8 million to build, or $60,000 per room. Yet, investors can quickly recoup these costs, especially as occupancy and room rates continue to rise, says Hampton's Cordell. Hampton Inn and Holiday Inn are reporting healthy vital signs.
Read More. Excluding overtime pay (which bumps median pay up to $15.57), people who work for Holiday Inn earn a median wage of $10.00 per hour. The most important factor affecting pay for Holiday Inn employees is where you live, though how long you've been working and your role at the company play a role as well. 
Holiday Inn Express is the busiest hotel chain in the USA in terms of construction, with nearly 21,000 guest rooms expected to open between now and 2014. That's according to HotelNewsNow.com, which compiled the Top 15 hotel chain list by ranking those with the most guest rooms in the USA's active... Holiday Inn Express continues to set the pace in the mid-scale without food and beverage hotel category as the fastest-growing brand, opening on average two new hotels every week.
Example, if you built a 100 room Holiday Inn Express, you would be looking at 10 million, give or take depending on how extravagant you wanted to get. · just now. Report Abuse. A general rule of thumb for a newly constructed, limited service, with an average pool, standard furnishing/decor (think Holiday Inn), maybe one small restaurant/lounge is $100,000 per guestroom.
Michael Hoffman, president of Turf Hotels in Albany, N.Y., says his company spent about $50,000 per key — excluding land — to build its one Holiday Inn Express 10 years ago. That same 121-room hotel would cost about $75,000 per room to build today. Similarly, an average Hampton Inn with 80 rooms costs between $6 million and $8 million to build, or $60,000 per room. Yet, investors can quickly recoup these costs, especially as occupancy and room rates continue to rise, says Hampton's Cordell. Hampton Inn and Holiday Inn are reporting healthy vital signs.
The client wanted a budget hotel built for a fixed price with minimum risk. Thanks to the innovative use of a special purpose vehicle company, it was able to start operating the new Holiday Inn Express at Wellingborough after just 30 weeks on site. 
Answers. Best Answer: The answer depends too much on the locaiton of the hotel and the timing. For example, a Holiday Inn may charge $250 per night during high season, and the same hotel could be $75 per night during off season. Also depends on factors like the length of stay and if you are eligible for any discounts (ex. AAA, government rate, etc.)
A typical Holiday Inn Express with 75 to 80 rooms costs about $50,000 to $60,000 per key to build, says Verchele Mills, vice president of brand management for Holiday Inn Express. Similarly, an average Hampton Inn with 80 rooms costs between $6 million and $8 million to build, or $60,000 per room. Yet, investors can quickly recoup these costs, especially as occupancy and room rates continue to rise, says Hampton's Cordell. Hampton Inn and Holiday Inn are reporting healthy vital signs.
These hotels have about 100 rooms — 30% to 50% of which are suites with living rooms, separate bedrooms and kitchen areas. InterContinental, a publicly traded company based in the UK, does not break out brand RevPAR, yet room rates at Holiday Inn Express average $70 to $80 per night, says Mills. Similarly, an average Hampton Inn with 80 rooms costs between $6 million and $8 million to build, or $60,000 per room. Yet, investors can quickly recoup these costs, especially as occupancy and room rates continue to rise, says Hampton's Cordell. Hampton Inn and Holiday Inn are reporting healthy vital signs.