5% off! Made from 100% Australian corn and rice this is a puffed snack with a strong cheese taste. Cheezels are great fun anytime, anywhere, just pop some on each of your fingers and have some finger-licious fun! Light and crispy, full of the taste of cheese ... and I don't think anyone can resist putting at least one of these on their fingers! ** Best Before Dates for Christmas **. We have now put all the best before dates on display on the website if there is a date before 31st January 2015.
Cheezels. The cheesier the merrier! Make your very own Cheese Fig Tapas with Turkey or Chicken Ham and sprinkle a little Cheezels crumbs on top. Absolutely Cheeeeesetastic! grin emoticon. Check out the recipe now: http://sharemykitchen.com/…/start…/cheese-fig-and-ham-tapas/. Image sourced from: http://bit.ly/1duMaZX.
(April 2015). Twisties are a type of cheese curl, corn-based snack food product, available mainly in Australia, and other Oceanian countries such as Papua New Guinea, New Caledonia, Vanuatu and Fiji, the Southeast Asian countries Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore and Brunei, and the island of Mauritius in the Indian Ocean. Twisties are produced by feeding a mix of milled corn, rice, wheat and water into a machine known as a rotary head or random extruder. This machine cooks the mix at high temperature and pressure whilst forming the pieces.
In Malaysia, Cheezels are originally produced by Danone and later, Kraft Foods, and is currently owned by Mondelēz International, together with Twisties. In New Zealand, Cheezels are owned by Bluebird Foods Ltd and Pepsico subsidiaries. Made from corn and rice, they are a crisp puffy ring with a strong, savoury cheddar cheese flavour and aroma. They are similar in texture to a cheese puff, or the American Cheetos. In Italy, Cheezels are known under the name 'Yonkers', also owned by Mondelēz International. The snack has no slogan, and features a mascot named 'Yonky', after the snack. However, Yonky's catchphrase is 'Yonk!' which could be considered the slogan
Since the snack's creation, its base ingredient has been ground corn and rice. Other base ingredients standard in every flavour are vegetable oil, whey protein, salt, and monosodium glutamate (E621) as a flavour enhancer. Ingredients differ depending on the variety of Twisties. Twisties are produced by feeding a mix of milled corn, rice, wheat and water into a machine known as a rotary head or random extruder. This machine cooks the mix at high temperature and pressure whilst forming the pieces.
Our Brands. Your all time favourite Australian snacks are ready to be enjoyed with family and friends. The crisp corn crunch of CC's. The irresistible crisp of Thins. The naturally delicious crunch of Kettle Chips. All your favourites! 1  Cheezels. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The original Cheezels are made from corn, rice, whey powder, onion powder, salt and have a cheddar cheese flavor. This product is ring-shaped and also is a popular snack food in Australia. There are many other flavors of this product. Honeycombs are made of bee's wax which is made from the nectar of flowers Beeswax is a natural wax produced in the bee hive of honey bees of the genus Apis.