All passengers must be 21 years old to drink alcohol no matter where the ship is sailing, 18 to gamble in the casino, and if you're under age 21, there must be at least one person in the cabin over 25. Norwegian Cruise Line (www.ncl.com). All passengers must be 21 years old to drink alcohol no matter where the ship is sailing. You must be 18 to gamble in the casino;
However, on cruises departing from European and South American countries, where the legal drinking age is typically lower than 21, a parent who is sailing with his or her son(s) and/or daughter(s) who is between the ages of 18 to 20, may sign a waiver allowing the 18 to 20 year old to consume alcoholic beverages. The following cruise lines require that all passengers in a cabin are 21 or older or that at least one person in the cabin is 25 or older: Carnival and Windstar Cruises. An exception may be made for underage married couples, as long as they are both 18.
All passengers must be 18 years old to drink beer and wine, and 21 to drink the hard stuff; however when the ship is docked or anchored in an American port, or within the 3-mile limit, the drinking age is 21 for all alcoholic beverages. To gamble in the casino, passengers must be 21 or older. All passengers must be 21 years old to drink alcohol no matter where the ship is sailing. You must be 18 to gamble in the casino; if you're under age 21, there must be at least one person in the cabin over 25.
The minimum drinking age for all alcoholic beverages on Norwegian Cruise Line ships is 21. Guests who are 18 - 20 years of age can purchase and consume beer or wine when the ship is in international waters (3 miles out of US territorial waters). The age modification does not apply for Alaska and Hawaii sailings. 
Norwegian Cruise Line (www.ncl.com) Passengers ages 18 to 20, with the written consent of their parents or guardian, can purchase beer or wine for themselves only when the ship is sailing in international waters (except in Alaska and Hawaii, where you must be 21 years of age to consume or purchase alcohol or any kind). All passengers must be 21 years old to drink alcohol no matter where the ship is sailing. You must be 18 to gamble in the casino; if you're under age 21, there must be at least one person in the cabin over 25.
As the legal drinking age in the United States is 21, no cruise line permits passengers under 21 to drink while in U.S. territorial waters. In international waters, however, as well as those claimed by countries with lower drinking ages, some cruise lines allow passengers 18 and over to drink. On some cruise lines, passengers 18 through 20 face alcohol restrictions that older passengers do not. For example, on Celebrity and Azamara, you are not allowed to provide alcoholic beverages to anyone else, even if that person is over 21.
Best Answer: Age Policies of the Major Lines Carnival (www.carnival.com) All passengers must be 21 years old to drink alcohol no matter where the ship is sailing. You must be 18 to gamble in the casino; if you're under age 21, there must be at least one person in the cabin over 25. If you're near Mexico, the drinking age is 18 anyway so a cruise around Mexico, it should stay that way. If all else fails, bring your own liquor on the cruise and drink up.
Crystal Cruises (www.crystalcruises.com) All passengers must be 18 years old to drink beer and wine, and 21 to drink the hard stuff; however when the ship is docked or anchored in an American port, or within the 3-mile limit, the drinking age is 21 for all alcoholic beverages. If you're near Mexico, the drinking age is 18 anyway so a cruise around Mexico, it should stay that way. If all else fails, bring your own liquor on the cruise and drink up.
Parental permission is not required for 18- through 20-year-olds to drink. Royal Caribbean’s drinking age is 18 for cruises that originate in Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Europe and South America, but the drinking age is always 21 on the company’s private islands. Costa’s drinking age is 18 for all sailings that depart from a non-United States port. On some cruise lines, passengers 18 through 20 face alcohol restrictions that older passengers do not. For example, on Celebrity and Azamara, you are not allowed to provide alcoholic beverages to anyone else, even if that person is over 21.
The drinking age on all of Norwegian's ships is 21. However, passengers who are 18 to 20 years of age can purchase and consume beer or wine when the ship is in international waters (does not apply to Alaska or Hawaii sailings). A parent or legal guardian must be onboard the sailing with the minor and sign a consent form at the front desk. Bringing Booze Onboard. Bringing wine or Champagne onboard: It's allowed, but you'll have to pay a corkage fee for all wine that is brought onboard. Fees are $15 for 750ml bottles, $20 for 1,000ml and $30 for 1,500ml. Boxed wine is not allowed. Purchasing liquor in port: It will be retained until the end of the cruise.