The Sanctity of Human Life (SOHL) Guide will help you to see how the sanctity of human life applies to each stage of life, providing guidance for making life-affirming choices for yourself and your family. 
Together we can live out and communicate the beauty, wonder and reverence our Creator intended for each person in the human family. FURTHER RESOURCES. The First Nine Months booklet lays out fetal development in tasteful photos and medical facts. The Focus on the Family Sanctity of Human Life 2014 handbook. Finally, to live out the sanctity truth requires at action: to remind those around us of the value of all human life by speaking out for those who cannot speak for themselves (Proverbs 31:8). Look for opportunities to talk about and act upon your pro-life views.
The cornerstone of living out this fundamental truth is to recognize the value of our own lives and the lives of others. In fact, knowing who you are is a big part of understanding the sanctity of human life. Finally, to live out the sanctity truth requires at action: to remind those around us of the value of all human life by speaking out for those who cannot speak for themselves (Proverbs 31:8). Look for opportunities to talk about and act upon your pro-life views.
In religion and ethics, inviolability or sanctity of life is a principle of implied protection regarding aspects of sentient life which are said to be holy, sacred, or otherwise of such value that they are not to be violated. The concept of inviolability is an important tie between the ethics of religion and the ethics of law, as each seeks justification for its principles as based on both purity and natural concept, as well as in universality of application.
Sanctity of Life. We believe in the sanctity of human life. Life begins at conception and protecting that life is our most sacred duty. We hope to be that voice for the unborn in Kentucky. For the past 20 years The Family Foundation has been part of a coalition that has helped to protect the unborn
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sanctity is a religous term meaning sacred or godly. Thier belief is that it is gods intention that people live in natural family units with a male father and female mother who are married and stay together for life. That is what they mean when they say it. So they must protect the sanctity of the family against those who wish to destroy it.Because we all know that gay people surely can't raise children to be good moral productive members of society. Stephanie is awesome!! · 9 years ago.
Full Definition of SANCTITY. 1. : holiness of life and character: godliness. 2. a: the quality or state of being holy or sacred: inviolability b plural: sacred objects, obligations, or rights. See sanctity defined for English-language learners. See sanctity defined for kids. 
The concept of human dignity comes from the sanctity of human life. Since humans are made in God's image, we hold a distinctive status that sets us apart. Human dignity is bestowed upon us by God. It's not based on our ability to care for ourselves or competence to complete the task. Finally, to live out the sanctity truth requires at action: to remind those around us of the value of all human life by speaking out for those who cannot speak for themselves (Proverbs 31:8). Look for opportunities to talk about and act upon your pro-life views.
[Editor's Note: Sanctity of Human Life Sunday is observed this year on January 20, 2013.]. Don't get me wrong, the call to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ is a joy. Nothing is more thrilling than opening the Word of God to the people of Christ week-by-week. But it provokes my spirit to preach the Sanctity of Human Life (SOHL) emphasis on a Sunday morning. I don't hate Sanctity of Human Life Sunday because I think it, somehow, unbiblical. No, indeed. The entire canon throbs with God's commitment to the fatherless and to the widows, his wrath at the shedding of innocent blood. I don't hate it because I think it's inappropriate.