Most opiate painkillers are only available on prescription from a doctor or other prescriber. Some opiates at low doses, such as codeine, when combined with other analgesics like paracetamol, ibuprofen or aspirin are designed to be able to be bought over-the-counter in pharmacies. Opiate painkillers are available either from doctors on prescription; or, in relatively low doses over-the-counter, at a pharmacy, combined with aspirin, ibuprofen or paracetamol.
Opiate addiction is caused by persistent use of opiates and is thought to be a disorder of the central nervous system. Prescription painkiller addiction is hard to break free of without treatment. Available options include detox, rehabilitation, 12-step programs, therapy and rapid drug detox. Abuse, Tolerance, Addiction and Withdrawal. Prescription painkillers can cause sedation and euphoria and are commonly abused. Chronic use can lead to tolerance, characterized by a patient’s need to consume more and more of the drug to achieve the same pain relief.
The use of opiates such as heroin, Morphine, opium or Oxycodone can lead to a central nervous system disorder that results in physical dependence and addiction. Opiate addiction is not only a dangerous condition, it could prove to be deadly if left undiagnosed or untreated. What it Means to be Opiate Dependent. To be opiate dependent means simply that the user is physically or psychologically dependent on opiates such as heroin, methadone, morphine, Oxycodone, Hydrocodone or another opiate derived drug.
Home » Prescription Painkillers. Prescription painkillers, or opiates, are analgesic medications available only by prescription from a doctor, dentist, veterinarian or other licensed medical personnel. Natural opiates are contained in the resin of the opium poppy plant and include morphine and codeine. Abuse, Tolerance, Addiction and Withdrawal. Prescription painkillers can cause sedation and euphoria and are commonly abused. Chronic use can lead to tolerance, characterized by a patient’s need to consume more and more of the drug to achieve the same pain relief.
Opiate drugs are those that are derived, either naturally or synthetically, from the opium plant. There are opiate drugs that are illegal, such as heroin, and others that are legally available with a prescription. Opiates are often prescribed to treat pain but many are also effective in treating coughs. Fentanyl. Fentanyl, another synthetic drug, is an opiate prescription medication that is more than 80 times more potent than morphine, according to the DEA. Fentanyl is commonly prescribed as a transdermal (skin) patch for slow delivery of the medication to treat severe chronic pain. Fentanyl, like morphine, is highly addictive
When opiates are prescribed by a physician for the treatment of pain and are taken in the prescribed dosage, they are safe and there is little chance of opiate addiction. However, when opiates are abused and taken in excessive doses, opiate addiction can result, leading to a need for rapid detoxification. Two important effects produced by opiates, such as morphine, are pleasure (or reward) and pain relief. The brain itself also produces substances known as endorphins that activate the opiate receptors.
Opiates elicit their powerful effects by activating opiate receptors that are widely distributed throughout the brain and body. Once an opiate reaches the brain, it quickly activates the opiate receptors that are found in many brain regions and produces an effect that correlates with the area of the brain involved. Two important effects produced by opiates, such as morphine, are pleasure (or reward) and pain relief. The brain itself also produces substances known as endorphins that activate the opiate receptors.
Morphine. Another type of opiate or opioid that is used as a pain killer in hospitals and prescribed by doctors is morphine. It is often used to treat severe and chronic pain. Morphine is commonly administered intravenously into the blood stream when used in a hospital setting. Opiates or opioids are legally prescribed to patients to relieve moderate to severe pain. Opiates naturally come from opium poppy which contains several active ingredients such as morphine. Opiates are considered to be narcotics and can be extremely addictive.
Opiate/opioid painkillers are medicines with effects similar to opium. They act by stimulating opioid receptors in the brain and nervous system. There are a large number of opiate/opioid medicines including codeine, morphine, dihydrocodeine, methadone, buprenorphine and diamorphine (also known as heroin). Opiate painkillers are available either from doctors on prescription; or, in relatively low doses over-the-counter, at a pharmacy, combined with aspirin, ibuprofen or paracetamol.