A twitching eye can be one sign of stress, especially when it is related to vision problems such as eye strain (see below). Reducing the cause of the stress can help make the twitching stop. Tiredness: A lack of sleep, whether because of stress or some other reason, can trigger a twitching eyelid. To find a solution for a twitching eye, we needed to determine the underlying cause of this annoying problem. Called myokymia in doctor lingo, these rippling muscle contractions in an eyelid can be triggered by: 1  Stress. 2  Tiredness.
In this article. Eye twitching is a repetitive, uncontrollable blinking or spasm of the eyelid, usually the upper lid. Eye twitching (blepharospasm) usually affects the eye muscles of both eyes. If you have eye twitching, you may have an involuntary movement that recurs every several seconds for a minute or two.
Almost all sudden-onset eyelid twitching is benign, meaning the condition is not serious or a sign of a medical problem. However, this kind of eye twitching also can be hard to treat. The only option for making the twitching stop may be to figure out the cause and deal with it. To find a solution for a twitching eye, we needed to determine the underlying cause of this annoying problem. Called myokymia in doctor lingo, these rippling muscle contractions in an eyelid can be triggered by: 1  Stress. 2  Tiredness.
Muscle twitching, also known as muscle fasciculation, is marked by small muscle contractions in the body. Your muscles are composed of fibers, tissues, and nerves. When a nerve is stimulated or damaged, it may cause your muscle fibers to twitch. Many twitches experienced in your body are common and may go unnoticed. 
Left eye twitching, also known as blepharospasm, is characterized as an uncontrollable and recurring spasm of your upper eyelid. Eye twitching can occur in both the left and right eye, although it is most common in the left eye. Common Causes of Left Eye Twitching. 1  Fatigue: Insomnia can trigger left eye spasms. 2  Stress: A common sign of stress is left eye twitching. 3  Tense muscles can cause left eye jumping. 4  Caffeine and alcohol: Too much caffeine and/or alcohol can trigger left eye twitches.
Advertisement. Eye twitching, also known as eye spasm, eyelid spasm, or eye muscle twitch is characterized by the involuntary contraction of the muscles around the eyelids, which further results in blinking of the eyes. Eye spasm, once in a blue moon, is usually harmless, and does not cause any disturbance to the vision of the individual. However, often occurrences can be a sign of serious eye problems.
Eye strain: Vision-related stress can occur if, for instance, you need glasses or a change of glasses. Your eyes may be working too hard, triggering eyelid twitching. Computer eye strain from overuse of computers, tablets and smartphones is also a very common cause of vision-related stress. To find a solution for a twitching eye, we needed to determine the underlying cause of this annoying problem. Called myokymia in doctor lingo, these rippling muscle contractions in an eyelid can be triggered by: 1  Stress. 2  Tiredness.
Under Eye Twitching. Eyelid twitching is a common eye condition that is characterized by uncontrolled contractions of the muscles in the eyelids. The following write-up provides information on the common causes of under eye twitching along with self-care measures that must be followed to prevent this eye problem. Advertisement. The term 'eyelid myokymia' refers to the involuntary contractions of the muscles, especially in the lower eyelid. More often than not, involuntary eye muscle spasms come and go in a sporadic manner, and usually last for a few minutes or hours. However, eyelid twitching could sometimes last for a few day
Eye Twitching, also known as blepharospasm or myokymia, is a sudden, involuntary movement of the eyelid; it is also referred to as an eye muscle spasm. These spasms often occur in stressful situations or when the affected individual has gone too long without sufficient rest. 
Eye Fatigue. Eye fatigue or eye strain is a common and annoying condition. The symptoms include tired, itching, and burning eyes. Eye fatigue is rarely a serious condition. Common sense precautions at home, work, and outdoors may help prevent or reduce eye fatigue. Eye twitching (blepharospasm) usually affects the eye muscles of both eyes. If you have eye twitching, you may have an involuntary movement that recurs every several seconds for a minute or two.