Wash with running water. Drain. Place chicken feet, garlic, onion, ginger, soy sauce, pepper, water, sugar and bay leaves in a pot. Bring to boil and lessen heat. Simmer for 40-50 minutes until chicken feet are cooked through and tender. Season with salt and vinegar. Add water or sugar according to taste. 
4 cups water. How to cook Chicken Feet Adobo: 1  In a medium size or wok, heat oil and saute garlic until fragrant and slightly brown. 2  Then put all the chicken feet on the wok and stir for a few seconds then add the onions, bay leaves, brown sugar, soy sauce, vinegar, chili peppers. 3  Simmer for about 5 minutes and cover. 1 Then put all the chicken feet on the wok and stir for a few seconds then add the onions, bay leaves, brown sugar, soy sauce, vinegar, chili peppers. 2  Simmer for about 5 minutes and cover. 3  Do not mix the chicken feet while cooking. 4  Next, add the water and black pepper. 5  Mix the chicken feet for a few seconds then cover.
1 Set aside. 2  On a clean pot, heat 2 tablespoons of cooking oil. 3  Saute garlic and dried chili. 4  Put-in the fried chicken feet, soy sauce, and water. 5  Let boil. 6  Add the dried bay leaves, whole peppercorn, oyster sauce, salt, and sugar. 7  Stir and simmer until chicken feet becomes tender.Note: add water as necessary. 1 Put-in the fried chicken feet, soy sauce, and water. 2  Let boil. 3  Add the dried bay leaves, whole peppercorn, oyster sauce, salt, and sugar. 4  Stir and simmer until chicken feet becomes tender.Note: add water as necessary. 5  Add vinegar and stir. 6  Cook for 5 minutes more. 7  Turn-off heat, and then transfer to a serving plate
Spicy Chicken Feet (Adidas) Adobo. This is the simplest Pinoy style Spicy Chicken Feet Adobo. Chicken feet or what we commonly called Adidas, when grilled, this is sold as street food in every part of the Philippines. Also, this can be seen in any Chinese Restaurants with dimsums. 4. Place the chicket feet, water, soy sauce and vinegar, bay leaves, peppercorns. Close it and wait until it boils. 5. When it boils, lessen the heat. And, let it simmer... 6. Pour the calamansi juice extract, hot sauce and sugar when the sauce quite thickens already. 7.
Directions. For the marinade: In a medium bowl, combine the vinegar, soy sauce, sugar, garlic, red pepper flakes, and bay leaves. Whisk until the sugar has dissolved. Arrange the chicken in a single layer in a 9-by-13-by-2-inch glass baking dish. 
Chicken Feet Adobo is a chicken feet recipe cooked using the Filipino Adobo way. In the Philippines and other Asian countries, chicken feet is not considered an exotic food. In fact, it is eaten by many people and more than a handful chicken feet recipes are available. 1 Put-in the fried chicken feet, soy sauce, and water. 2  Let boil. 3  Add the dried bay leaves, whole peppercorn, oyster sauce, salt, and sugar. 4  Stir and simmer until chicken feet becomes tender.Note: add water as necessary. 5  Add vinegar and stir. 6  Cook for 5 minutes more. 7  Turn-off heat, and then transfer to a serving plat
Adobo or Adobar (Spanish: marinade, sauce, or seasoning) is the immersion of raw food in a stock (or sauce) composed variously of paprika, oregano, salt, garlic, and vinegar to preserve and enhance its flavor. The Portuguese variant is known as Carne de vinha d'alhos. 