Gene therapy is the therapeutic delivery of nucleic acid polymers into a patient's cells as a drug to treat disease. Until September 1990, it had never been successfully done, and it is still an experimental and emerging medical technology. 
A new gene is injected into an adenovirus vector, which is used to introduce the modified DNA into a human cell. If the treatment is successful, the new gene will make a functional protein. Gene therapy is designed to introduce genetic material into cells to compensate for abnormal genes or to make a beneficial protein. If a mutated gene causes a necessary protein to be faulty or missing, gene therapy may be able to introduce a normal copy of the gene to restore the function of the protein
© ISTOCKPHOTO/SERGEY SOROKOVYKH. Gene therapy is the addition of new genes to a patient's cells to replace missing or malfunctioning genes. Researchers typically do this using a virus to carry the genetic cargo into cells, because that’s what viruses evolved to do with their own genetic material. 
Gene therapy is an experimental technique that uses genes to treat or prevent disease. In the future, this technique may allow doctors to treat a disorder by inserting a gene into a patient’s cells instead of using drugs or surgery. Researchers are testing several approaches to gene therapy, including: Replacing a mutated gene that causes disease with a healthy copy of the gene.
Gene therapy is the use of genetic instructions to produce a protein to treat a disorder or deficiency. It can aid in a disease even if the therapy is not directly targeting a gene defect that causes the disease. 
Gene therapy is a form of therapy that involves inserting one or more corrective genes that have been designed in the laboratory, into the genetic material of a patient's cells to cure a genetic disease. The expression of the new gene or genes can then alter the DNA or RNA transcript used to synthesis proteins and therefore correct the disease. Gene therapy is still in the experimental stages and its use is therefore not yet widespread.
Gene therapy is when DNA is introduced into a patient to treat a genetic disease. The new DNA usually contains a functioning gene to correct the effects of a disease-causing mutation. 1  Gene therapy uses sections of DNA (usually genes) to treat or prevent disease. 2  The DNA is carefully selected to correct the effect of a mutated gene that is causing disease.
1 Gene therapy uses sections of DNA (usually genes) to treat or prevent disease. 2  The DNA is carefully selected to correct the effect of a mutated gene that is causing disease. 3  The technique was first developed in 1972 but has, so far, had limited success in treating human diseases. The new DNA usually contains a functioning gene to correct the effects of a disease-causing mutation. 1 
Description: Gene therapy is when DNA is introduced into a patient to treat a genetic disease. The new DNA usually contains a functioning gene to correct the effects of a disease-causing mutation. 1  Source: Genome Research Limited and Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. |. Gene Therapy. Gene therapy is an experimental technique for treating disease by altering the patient's genetic material. Most often, gene therapy works by introducing a healthy copy of a defective gene into the patient's cells.