The first symptoms of chickenpox usually develop about 14 to 16 days after contact with a person infected with the virus. Most people feel sick and have a fever, a decreased appetite, a headache, a cough, and a sore throat. The itchy chickenpox rash usually appears about 1 or 2 days after the first symptoms start. 
14 - 16 days on average (range 10 - 21 days). For chickenpox, the infectious period is as long as 5, but usually 1 - 2 days before the rash appears and until all the vesicles have formed scabs, usually within 5 days of rash onset. The infectious period for shingles is from rash onset for up to a week. 
Characteristic pancorporeal varicella lesions in unvaccinated person. The incubation period for varicella is 14 to 16 days after exposure to a varicella or a herpes zoster rash, with a range of 10 to 21 days. A mild prodrome of fever and malaise may occur 1 to 2 days before rash onset, particularly in adults. In children, the rash is often the first sign of disease. 
VZV has an incubation period of about 10-21 days 2 and is most contagious through physical contact a few days before symptoms occur 1. During this incubation period, the virus spreads to the lymph nodes, the liver, and the lungs. This process known as primary viremia. 
1 The average length is 14 to 16 days from exposure, with a range of 10 to 21 days. 2  This may be prolonged in immunocompromised patients and those who have received varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG). 3  The incubation period may be up to 28 days after VZIG. 1 Answer: The incubation period could be lengthened to as long as 28 days. 2  Therefore, the exposed person should not be in contact with susceptible persons at high risk for varicella complications during the period from 10 to 28 days post-exposure.
1 The period of communicability (for normal persons) extends from 1 to 2 days before onset of the rash through the first 5 to 6 days after rash onset. 2  Varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) is indicated for a healthy full-term infant who is exposed to chickenpox at home at age 2 weeks. 1 Answer: The incubation period could be lengthened to as long as 28 days. 2  Therefore, the exposed person should not be in contact with susceptible persons at high risk for varicella complications during the period from 10 to 28 days post-exposure.
It normally takes 14 days for the symptoms of chickenpox to show after you have come into contact with the virus. However, this can vary from person to person – from as little as 7 days, up to 21 days. This is called the incubation period. 
The incubation period is from 14 to 16 days from exposure, with a range of ten to 21 days. The incubation period may be prolonged in immunocompromised patients and those who have received varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG). 
The incubation period is seven to 21 (usually 10 to 21) days after exposure to the herpes varicella-zoster virus to the development of the symptoms. The disease is most contagious a day or two before the rash appears and until the rash is completely dry and scabbed over, about five to six days after onset of the rash. Chickenpox incubation period. Chickenpox (varicella) is a common, highly contagious, viral infectious disease of childhood. Usually mild, it’s characterised by a very itchy rash that can spread over the whole body. In the UK, it is common and most cases occur during winter and spring.
Clinical Features The incubation period is 14 to 16 days after exposure, with a range of 10 to 21 days. The incubation period may be prolonged in immunocompromised patients and those who have received postexposure treatment with a varicella antibody–containing product. 