The first thing to know is that the time for how long does CPR certification last varies from state to state or from province to province and you are advised to check with your local institutes to confirm the time period your state has allowed.
You can go to your local American Red Cross. The class is usually about 3-5 hours [depending on the instructor, and if you're looking for the full CPR/AED/First Aid certification]. After you complete the class you'll get your certification.
1) CPR/AED for the Lay Responder (Valid 2 years) (Adult-Child-Infant): This is usually a 7-8 hour course, depending on class size. This can be broken up into segments, such as Adult CPR/AED, Child CPR/AED plus Infant CPR. If you only need to know skills for one specific age group, this might be the level for you.
The answer to how long does CPR certification last is that it varies from place to place but an average of 2 years is the time for how long does CPR certification last. You can also learn about other first aid techniques along with CPR and become a thoroughly accomplished First Aid doctor!
Equivalent to the American Heart Association’s BLS (Basic Life Support), also called CPR/AED for the Healthcare Provider or CPR/AED for Lifeguards This class includes skills for all age groups from infants to adults that cannot be broken down into segments.
What is the cost for the class? The cost for a Heartsaver CPR/AED class is $20.00. The BLS level courses are $30.00 and First Aid courses are $40.00 The class fee covers the cost of student materials and certification cards. The class is free to Building Safety Coordinators unless they would like to purchase a workbook for $12.00.
You can go to your local American Red Cross. The class is usually about 3-5 hours [depending on the instructor, and if you're looking for the full CPR/AED/First Aid certification].
CPR/AED and First Aid certifications are valid for two years; Lifeguarding/First Aid certifications are. valid for two years. Although the American Red Cross CPR/AED and First Aid Courses are valid for. two years, be aware of State and Local Department of Health regulations.