Just as the cost of real estate varies by geographic area, independent living costs also vary nationwide. Unlike assisted living and nursing home costs which are published annually by Genworth Financial, there is very little published cost information available on independent living. Call 1-800-748-4024. When you decide to trade in your single-family house for a retirement community, you won’t lack for options to chose from; there are retirement communities (which include senior apartments and 55+ retirement communities), independent living communities or continuing care communities.
There are a number of retirement home options out there for every budget, For example, if you're considering buying into an independent living retirement condominium in the Greater Toronto Area, a one-bedroom starts at about $240,000, while a two-bedroom suite can go for $300,000 or more. Most residents of retirement communities pay monthly rent for their accommodations and across Canada, monthly fees range from $1,453 to $3,204 on average. This is dependent on the size and location of the accommodations, the type of community, and the quality and number of amenities.
This benefit can offset a significant portion of the long term care and/or assisted living costs in a Brookdale senior housing community. Depending on your situation, the benefit ranges from $1,094 to 2,019 per month and is tax free. 
Smaller three-to four-car garages, not built for large vehicles, can also range from 900 to 1,500 square feet. So far, of the 26 custom homes at the retirement community, the smallest living space is about 1,300 square feet with a 960-square-foot three-car garage. The largest home has 2,700 square feet of living space plus a 2,500-square-foot garage. Prices of the homes start in the $190,000 range and can cost as much as half a million dollars, depending on customization and square footage. “Ultimately, the home that they can build is limited simply by their imagination,” Schuster says. 
Ontario has by far the widest range of costs for retirement homes, including the most affordable and most expensive rates across Canada. Retirement home costs average $3, 204 per month. Ontario's retirement homes cover a wide range of specialized needs and forms of care. Learn about retirement costs in Ontario →. Most residents of retirement communities pay monthly rent for their accommodations and across Canada, monthly fees range from $1,453 to $3,204 on average. This is dependent on the size and location of the accommodations, the type of community, and the quality and number of amenities.
Costs of Care. Some average costs for long-term care in the United States (in 2010) were: 1  $205 per day or $6,235 per month for a semi-private room in a nursing home. 2  $229 per day or $6,965 per month for a private room in a nursing hom
Independent living costs can vary by retirement community, based on the size of the apartment, geographical location of the community and the services needed at the community. According to Genworth.com, the average cost of a one-bedroom, independent living or retirement community in the U.S. in 2012 was $2,750 a month. Often times there is a basic rate that covers all independent living services, with an additional fee for special services
Costs of Different Types of Retirement Communities. The most important variable in retirement living costs is how you choose to live: in your own home, in an age-restricted retirement community, in an independent living community or in assisted living or continuing care. If you need to shift to a higher level of care, a home in a retirement community can be leveraged to help pay costs for the move. Reframing retirement living costs as an investment means doing your homework.
1 $205 per day or $6,235 per month for a semi-private room in a nursing home. 2  $229 per day or $6,965 per month for a private room in a nursing home. 3  $3,293 per month for care in an assisted living facility (for a one-bedroom unit). 4  $21 per hour for a home health aide. Some average costs for long-term care in the United States (in 2010) were: 1 
Cost of Florida Assisted Living Facilities. According to the 2015 Genworth Financial cost of care survey, the average cost of assisted living in Florida is $3,150 per month. The monthly base rate for Florida assisted living is typically higher when compared to neighboring states. Florida is also less expensive compared to the national average