About the Region St. Joseph's/Candler Serves Savannah, Georgia is synonymous with Southern beauty, hospitality and old-world charm. Savannah: The Home of St. Joseph's/Candler Savannah blends elegance and refinement with awe-inspiring landscapes and grand architecture that is centuries old. Founded in 1733 by General James Oglethorpe, Savannah is Georgia's first city. The small settlement on the high bluffs of the Savannah River became America's 13th and final colony, and was named Georgia, after England's then-ruling leader, King George II.
Savannah (/səˈvaenə/) səˈvænə is the oldest city in The.U. s state Of georgia and is the county seat Of Chatham. county Established in 1733, the city of Savannah became the British colonial capital of the Province of Georgia and later the first state capital of Georgia. A strategic port city in the American Revolution and during the American Civil War, Savannah is today an industrial center and an important Atlantic seaport.
Savannah's downtown area, which includes the Savannah Historic District, the Savannah Victorian Historic District, and 22 parklike squares, is one of the largest National Historic Landmark Districts in the United States (designated by the U.S. government in 1966). Established in 1733, the city of Savannah became the British colonial capital of the Province of Georgia and later the first state capital of Georgia. A strategic port city in the American Revolution and during the American Civil War, Savannah is today an industrial center and an important Atlantic seaport.
Savannah is the primary port on the Savannah River and the largest port in the state of Georgia. It is also located near the U.S. Intracoastal Waterway. Georgia's Ogeechee River flows toward the Atlantic Ocean some 16 miles (26 km) south of downtown Savannah. Established in 1733, the city of Savannah became the British colonial capital of the Province of Georgia and later the first state capital of Georgia. A strategic port city in the American Revolution and during the American Civil War, Savannah is today an industrial center and an important Atlantic seaport.
Savannah The Coast. Established in 1733, Savannah is the oldest city in Georgia and the location of one of the largest National Historic Landmark districts in the country. This eccentric Southern city beguiles with Old World glamour and romance, culture, and entertainmen
Georgia Regional Hospital at Savannah (GRHS) is a state-funded multi-service facility operated by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities. 
The Savannah River is a major river in the southeastern United States, forming most of the border between the states of South Carolina and Georgia. Two tributaries of the Savannah, the Tugaloo River and the Chattooga River, form the northernmost part of the border. The name Savannah comes from a group of Shawnee who migrated to the Piedmont region in the 1680s.
Savannah (/səˈvaenə/) səˈvænə is the oldest city in The.U. s state Of georgia and is the county seat Of Chatham. County established in, 1733 the city Of savannah became The british colonial capital of The province Of georgia and later the first state capital Of. georgia Established in 1733, the city of Savannah became the British colonial capital of the Province of Georgia and later the first state capital of Georgia. A strategic port city in the American Revolution and during the American Civil War, Savannah is today an industrial center and an important Atlantic seaport.