No. This is because this age is considered too old to be a child and too young to be a teenager. The ages that are considered a teenager are: 13 to 19. (For more on what … age is considered to be a teenager, see the related link). 10 people found this useful. The age a person is considered an adult in Georgia is 17. If a 17 year old commits a crime in Georgia, he or she will spend time in the big house, not a juvenile center.
A teenager, or teen, is a young person whose age falls within the range from 13–19. They are called teenagers because their age number ends with teen. Someone aged 18 or 19 is also considered a young adult. Usage by ordinary people varies, and also varies in different societies. Most societies traditionally had a formal ceremony to mark the change from childhood to adulthood. In the United Kingdom (UK); teenagers and non-teens are mixed in secondary school. Teenagers attending secondary school (high school in the US) generally graduate at the age of 17 or 18.
The child is no longer a minor at age 18. However, in Indiana, child support payments are required until the age of 21 or until the child is providing more than 50% of his or … her financial support. 2 people found this useful. There is no age limit other than that set by each state … for conviction as an adult. Sex crime conviction seems not to know of a bottom limit as yet; for each child convicted a younger one seems to be next. The youngest was a 6 year old boy.
There is no age limit other than that set by each state … for conviction as an adult. Sex crime conviction seems not to know of a bottom limit as yet; for each child convicted a younger one seems to be next. The youngest was a 6 year old boy. The age a person is considered an adult in Georgia is 17. If a 17 year old commits a crime in Georgia, he or she will spend time in the big house, not a juvenile center.
All About Adolescence. Adolescence describes the teenage years between 13 and 19 and can be considered the transitional stage from childhood to adulthood. However, the physical and psychological changes that occur in adolescence can start earlier, during the preteen or tween years (ages 9 through 12). 
People are minors (and therefore under the control of their parents or legal guardians) until they attain the age of majority (which in most states is either set at 18 years o … ld or requires the person be either both 18 and out of high school or at least 19 years old), at which point they become adults. There is no age limit other than that set by each state … for conviction as an adult. Sex crime conviction seems not to know of a bottom limit as yet; for each child convicted a younger one seems to be next. The youngest was a 6 year old boy.
You are considered a tenneager when you are ages 13 through 19. Sometimes people say that you are a teenager from ages 13 to 21, but it is mostly known as ages 13-19. Tech … nically, it is the 2 digit numbers than end with teen. For example: 19=nineteen 15= fifteen. The age a person is considered an adult in Georgia is 17. If a 17 year old commits a crime in Georgia, he or she will spend time in the big house, not a juvenile center.
August 2014 FAMILY & GROUP FAMILY CHILD CARE AGE GROUP DEFINITIONS (MINNESOTA STATUTES 245A.02, subd. 19)   Newborn  means a child between birth and six weeks old.   Infant  means a child who is at least six weeks old but less than 12 months old.   Toddler” “Preschooler” means a child who is at least 24 months old up to school age.  School age means a child who is at least five years of age, but is younger than 11 years of age. August 2014 Minnesota Rules, part 9502.0367 CHILD/ADULT RATIOS; AGE DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTIONS.