1 Some booster seats can be used for children up to 60 inches and 120 pounds. 2  Many state laws prefer that children 12 years and younger sit in the back seat if available. 3  Some states, as is the case in Michigan, forbid placing a child under the age of 4 years in a front seat if a rear seat is available. 1 All children who are smaller than 150 cm (4 ft 11 in) and younger than 14 years old must use a booster or car seat appropriate to their weight. 2  A child must be either 14 years old or 4'11 to ride without a booster seat.
Buckling children in age-and size-appropriate car seats, booster seats, and seat belts reduces the risk of serious and fatal injuries: 1  2. 2  Booster seat use reduces the risk for serious injury by 45% for children aged 4–8 years when compared with seat belt use alone. 3  3. 
The best booster seat is one that fits your child, can be correctly installed in your vehicle and is used properly every time your child rides in the car. To fit properly in your vehicle, a booster seat must: 1  Always be used with a lap and shoulder belt. 2  Position the lap and shoulder belt correctly on your child's body. 3  Not hang over the edge of the vehicle seat. 4  Not rock or tilt due to contoured or uneven vehicle seats
Stephanie Tombrello. child passenger safety specialist. You can safely switch your child to a booster seat if she's at least 4 years old and she weighs 40 pounds or more or has grown too tall for her car seat (when her shoulders are higher than the top set of harness-strap slots in the car seat's back).
restraint until they are at least 5 years old and weigh more than 40 pounds. • Children older than 5 and more than 40 pounds must ride in a booster seat. until the child is 8 years old or is taller than 4 feet 9 inches. • Anyone over the age of 8 must be protected by a safety belt. 
All children whose weight or height is above the forward-facing limit for their car seat should use a belt-positioning booster seat until the vehicle seat belt fits properly, typically when they have reached 4 feet 9 inches in height and are between 8 and 12 years of age. Booster seats must be used with a lap and shoulder belt. When using a booster seat, make sure: 1  The lap belt lies low and snug across your child's upper thighs. 2  The shoulder belt crosses the middle of your child's chest and shoulder, and is off of the neck.
The age of your child is not important-it is their weight which matters when choosing a car seat. Booster seats are suitable from 15-36kg / 33-79lbs which is approximately 4-11yrs of age. Booster seat / cushions are designed for use with the adult seat belt in your car. Remember, if your child is less than 135cm(4'5) in height or younger than 12 years old(whichever they reach first) they must travel in an appropriate child restraint by law. 
The age of your child is not important-it is their weight which matters when choosing a car seat. Booster seats are suitable from 15-36kg / 33-79lbs which is approximately 4-11yrs of age. Booster seat / cushions are designed for use with the adult seat belt in your car.
1 All children younger than 12 years and smaller than 150 cm (4 ft 11 in) must use a booster seat or child-safety seat appropriate to their weight. 2  The Department of Transport advises that children continue to use a seat when they are 12 years or older but smaller than 150 cm (4 ft 11 in). 1 All children who are smaller than 150 cm (4 ft 11 in) and younger than 14 years old must use a booster or car seat appropriate to their weight. 2  A child must be either 14 years old or 4'11 to ride without a booster seat.
Seat belts are made for adults. Your child should stay in a booster seat until adult seat belts fit correctly (usually when the child reaches about 4 feet 9 inches in height and is between 8 and 12 years of age). Booster seats must be used with a lap and shoulder belt. When using a booster seat, make sure: 1  The lap belt lies low and snug across your child's upper thighs. 2  The shoulder belt crosses the middle of your child's chest and shoulder, and is off of the neck.