You can cook boneless fillets or salmon steaks at 425 to 450 degrees Fahrenheit, allowing approximately 8 minutes per inch of thickness. For whole salmon, turn the heat down to 400 F and allow 10 minutes per inch of thickness at the thickest point. A third technique -- cooking your salmon in a pouch of parchment paper, or en papillote -- gives you the best of both worlds. Place each portion of salmon on a square or round of parchment, and lift up the edges. Fold the edges together to seal the pouch, then bake the salmon at your normal roasting temperature.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  Place fillets in aluminum foil, cover with marinade, and seal. 3  Place sealed salmon in the glass dish, and bake 35 to 45 minutes, until easily flaked with a fork. 
The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. ● Thin Fillet. Salmon must always be cooked at about 400° Farenheit for optimal results. Fish cooks fast and must be baked at a high temperature to kill bacteria and cook the flesh evenly. The lowest possible temperature to cook Salmon is 350°, but this may result in a dried fish, unless it is completely wrapped in foil.
Preheat the oven to 350ºF/177°C. Although you will be wrapping the salmon in parchment paper, the oven doesn't need much extra in terms of heat. Cooking salmon or any other type of fish, in parchment paper is a very efficient way of baking, and almost fool-proof. Set the oven temperature between 325 ºF/175ºC and 375ºF/190ºC. The right temperature depends on the recipe used and the size of the fillet being baked. Set the oven to the lower end of the temperature range for smaller fillets and the higher end for larger fillets.
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist
Report Abuse. I bake salmon all the time. I line my pan with aluminum foil, place the salmon fillet in the pan, put on my favorite seasonings/toppings, seal it up, and bake it in a preheated 400º oven. If the topping is thick, like a mayonnaise topping with onion powder and dill sprinkled over it, my 8 oz piece of salmon takes about 30 minutes to cook. 