Hilar is the region of the lungs were all the vessels, bronchi, lymph ducts, enter and exit the lungs. Adenopathy means enlargement. So it would mean the Hilar lymph nodes are enlarged. This is common in infection. But should subside once the infection does. 
1 Hilar lymphadenopathy, seen on chest x-ray or chest CT, can be classified as unilateral or bilateral, and if bilateral as symmetrical or asymmetrical. Overview. 1  Hilar lymphadenopathy, seen on chest x-ray or chest CT, can be classified as unilateral or bilateral, and if bilateral as symmetrical or asymmetrical.
LYMPHADENOPATHY ON CT. Bilateral symmetric hilar and right paratracheal mediastinal adenopathy, as in this patient, is the most common pattern of lymphadenopathy in sarcoidosis. Computed tomography shows para-aortic and retrocaval lymphadenopathy. CT can demostrate enlarged lymph nodes which are not visible on radiographs. There is an enlarged ... Hilar lymphadenopathy has not been found to develop or increase after a patient has presented with Stage III sarcoidosis. If a patient with only parenchymal lung disease on a chest radiograph developes or has an increase in lymphadenopathy, the patient either has an incorrect diagnosis or a second disease.
Bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy is a bilateral enlargement of the lymph nodes of pulmonary hila. It is a radiographic term that describes the enlargement of mediastinal lymph nodes and is most commonly identified by a chest x-ray. 
Summary Information: Hilar Lymph Nodes. Hilar Lymph Nodes: Hilar lymph nodes are glands that are a part of the immune system and are located where the lungs meet the bronchi. Hilar lymph nodes consist of lymphatic tissues enclosed by a fibrous capsule. They contain scavenging white blood cells that fight infection and its spread. 
To break it down, here are definitions of all of those words, and then a summary:    Bilateral: On both sides, as opposed to unilateral (on one side).    Hilar: … Of or relating to the hilum, presumably of the lung, which is the area of the lung where the airways (bronchioles) and arteries branch out. It is located near the heart, and is localized.    Adenopathy: Abnormality of the lymph nodes, typically related to swelling.    Calcified: Having an extremely high calcium content, to the point of hardening or solidification due to a build up of calcium in the tissue.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lymphadenopathy or lymphadenitis refers to lymph nodes which are abnormal in size, number or consistency and is often used as a synonym for swollen or enlarged lymph nodes. Common causes of lymphadenopathy are infection, autoimmune disease, or malignancy. Inflammation as a cause of lymph node enlargement is known as lymphadenitis. In practice, the distinction between lymphadenopathy and lymphadenitis is rarely made. Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is also known as lymphangitis. Infectious lymphadenitides affecting lymph nodes in the neck are often called scrofula. The term comes from the word lymph and a combination of the Greek words αδένας, adenas (gland) and παθεία, patheia (act of suffering or disease).
lymphadenopathy. angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy, angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy with dysproteinemia (AILD) a systemic lymphoma-like disorder characterized by malaise, generalized lymphadenopathy, and constitutional symptoms; it is a nonmalignant hyperimmune reaction to chronic antigenic stimulation. n a swelling of the lymph nodes that is associated with HIV infection and AIDS. See acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). lymphadenopathy, regional, n the involvement of nodes draining a specific region (e.g., submental nodes draining the middle of the lower lip, floor of the oral cavity, skin of the chin).