• Some are digestive and animal-like; others are absorptive and fungus like; others are photosynthetic (plant-like); others are aquatic • Eukaryotic cells—all eukaryotic cells that do not have the distinctive features needed to be classified as a plant, animal, or fungi cell can often be classified as a protist. 
1 Some protists are more closely related to plants, fungi, or animals than they are to other protists. 2  As a result, the kingdom Protista has been abandoned. 3  Various lineages are recognized as kingdoms in their own right. 1 However, it is now clear that Protista is in fact paraphyletic. 2  Some protists are more closely related to plants, fungi, or animals than they are to other protists. 3
The protists are a diverse group of organisms. In a sense, they are defined by what they aren't. Protists are eukaryotes that are not animals, fungi, or plants. In fact, these other groups probably evolved from a protist-like ancestors. We will be looking at a subset of the protists that are photosynthetic. Secondary endosymbionts: the dinoflagellates and the heterokonts. These groups are also photosynthetic, but they got their chloroplasts by capturing red algae, green algae, or other eukaryote organisms that already had a chloroplast, but not directly from the capture of cyanobacteria.
1 In the past, taxonomists classified all protists in a single kingdom, Protista. 2  However, it is now clear that Protista is in fact paraphyletic. 3  Some protists are more closely related to plants, fungi, or animals than they are to other protists. 4  As a result, the kingdom Protista has been abandoned. 1 However, it is now clear that Protista is in fact paraphyletic. 2  Some protists are more closely related to plants, fungi, or animals than they are to other protists. 3
Other protists include pathogenic species such as the kinetoplastid Trypanosoma brucei, which causes sleeping sickness and species of the apicomplexan Plasmodium which cause malaria. Most eukaryotic algae are autotrophic, but the pigments were lost in some groups. Other protists are heterotrophic, and may present phagotrophy, osmotrophy, saprotrophy or parasitism. Some are mixotrophic. Many protists are flagellate, for example, and filter feeding can take place where the flagella find prey.
1 They are photosynthetic using chlorophyll a. 2  Their closest relatives are the green algae and land plants. 3  Like the cyanobacteria, they use. 4  as antenna pigments. 5  phycoerythrin (which makes them red) and. 6  phycocyanin. 7  They do not have the eukaryotic 9+2 flagellum. 8  Some are used as food in coastal regions of Asia. 1 The red algae are almost exclusively marine. 2  Some are unicellular but most are multicellular. 3  Approximately 6000 species have been identified. 4  They are photosynthetic using chlorophyll a. 5
Photosynthetic Protists Pyrrhophyta: TheDinoflagellates The dinoflagellates consist of about2100 known species of primarily uni-cellular, photosynthetic organisms,most of which have two flagella. Amajority of the dinoflagellates are ma-rine, and they are often abundant inthe plankton, but some occur in freshwater. Chrysophyta: The Diatoms and Golden Algae The Diatoms. Diatoms, members of the phylum Chrys-ophyta, are photosynthetic, unicellular organisms withunique double shells made of opaline silica, which are oftenstrikingly and characteristically marked.
Almost all algae live in water. There are several kinds of chlorophyll. The most important chlorophyll is a. This certain type of chlorophyll is what makes photosynthesis possible, all the plants and algae that use photosynthesis contain chlorophyll a. 1. A. it is the most diverse of the plant-like protists. B. They get their green pigment from their chlorophyll. 
Protists live in almost any environment that contains liquid water. Many protists, such as algae, are photosynthetic and are vital primary producers in ecosystems, particularly in the ocean as part of the plankton. Most eukaryotic algae are autotrophic, but the pigments were lost in some groups. Other protists are heterotrophic, and may present phagotrophy, osmotrophy, saprotrophy or parasitism. Some are mixotrophic. Many protists are flagellate, for example, and filter feeding can take place where the flagella find prey.
Protest. The group of eukaryotic organisms that are not a plant, fungus, or animal. Protists are generally a microscopic complex single cell; they evolved before other types of eukaryotes in the history of Earth. 