There is no charge for processing payments received from EU/EEA countries in euro for €50,000 or less if they contain your IBAN and SWIFTBIC details. To generate an IBAN, enter your Barclays UK sort code and account number, stating whether the account is in Sterling or another currency 1. You may enter up to 12 accounts. You cannot create IBANs for your beneficiaries' account. You must provide your payer with a valid IBAN for your account and the Barclays SWIFTBIC (Bank Identifier Code) which is BARCGB22. The payer should include your IBAN and the SWIFTBIC in their payment instruction to their bank to ensure the payment is processed.
Your IBAN is similar to your usual account number, but with extra information that helps the overseas bank identify your account and make the payment. To generate your IBAN, simply enter your Barclays sort code & account number into our tool. Remember, you can only use this tool to generate IBANs for your Barclays accounts. And you can’t generate an IBAN number for someone else – if you need their IBAN to make a payment, you’ll need to ask the person for it.
Example of an IBAN. FR14 2004 1010 0505 0001 3M02 606. An IBAN consists of a two-letter country code FR (which indicates France in this case), followed by a two-digit checksum 14 and a domestic bank account number consisting of up to thirty alphanumeric characters 2004 1010 0505 0001 3M02 606. 
Sending International payments. You will often need to quote an International Bank Account Number (IBAN) reference for international payments. Sometimes you may have to give additional details including the reason for the payment or the beneficiary’s full name and address. It depends on the payment destination
You can convert your payees' account number into an IBAN using the IBAN Calculator. Using the number will mean the bank is able to process your payment quicker and reduces the likelihood of routing errors. You may also be required to provide a SWIFT code, which is a unique identifier code for a particular bank. 
1 Your International Bank Account Number (IBAN) – it’s on your statement, or you can generate the IBAN for your Barclays sterling account using the tool on our international payments page. 2  Barclays SWIFTBIC (Bank Identifier Code). 3  For Barclays UK, this code is BARCGB22. Before you can receive an international payment, you'll need to provide the sender with some details, including: 1  Your International Bank Account Number (IBAN) – it’s on your statement, or you can generate the IBAN for your Barclays sterling account using the tool on our international payments page.
International Bank Account Numbers or IBAN is a bank account number in an internationally recognised format and is the standard format for account numbers issued within Europe. BARCGB22 if your account is held with Barclays UK. The BIC tells the overseas remitting bank the Barclays address to receive your funds. You will find your IBAN for your Barclays account on your bank statements. You can also use this site to generate an IBAN 1 for your Barclays UK accounts. We will not charge you for processing payments received from EU/EEA countries in Euros for €50,000 or less if they contain your IBAN and SWIFT BIC details. There is currently no requirement to use IBANs for domestic payments in the UK