Causes. Penicillin allergy occurs when your immune system mistakenly reacts to the drug as a harmful substance, essentially as if it were a viral or bacterial infection. The allergy develops when your immune system has become sensitive to penicillin. This means that the first time you take the drug your immune system detects it as a harmful substance and develops an antibody to the type of penicillin you took. By Mayo Clinic Staff. Penicillin allergy occurs when your immune system mistakenly reacts to the drug as a harmful substance, essentially as if it were a viral or bacterial infection.
Many of you are here only because penicillin saved your life, or the life of one of your parents or grandparents. Penicillin's ability to cure people of many once-fatal bacterial infections has saved so many lives that it is easy to understand why it was once called a miracle drug. 
Penicillin (PCN or pen) is a group of antibiotics which include penicillin G (intravenous use), penicillin V (oral use), procaine penicillin, and benzathine penicillin (intramuscular use). They are derived from Penicillium fungi. While the number of penicillin-resistant bacteria is increasing, penicillin can still be used to treat a wide range of infections caused by certain susceptible bacteria, including Streptococci, Staphylococci, Clostridium, and Listeria genera.
Antibiotics are medicines that kill bacteria. Bacteria can cause infections such as strep throat, ear infections, urinary tract infections, and sinus infections (sinusitis). There are many types of antibiotics. Each works a little differently and acts on different types of bacteria. Your doctor will decide which antibiotic will work best for your infection. Antibiotics do not work against illnesses that are caused by a virus. They do not help illnesses such as: 1  Common colds. 2  Influenza (flu). 3  Most cases of acute bronchitis. 4  Most sore throats not caused by strep. 5  Runny noses. 6  Most ear infections.
Today, the use of penicillin and other antibiotics are common place. The various antibiotics are used to treat a number of what are now common diseases and to prevent the onset of infections when our skin, our first barrier to fight off disease, is somehow broken through a simple cut or a more serious wound. It is something that we all take for granted, today. The discovery of penicillin has often been described as a miracle drug, and that is exactly what it was. Prior to the discovery of penicillin, death could occur in what would seem, today, to be very trivial injuries and diseases.
Penicillin antibiotics were among the first medications to be effective against many bacterial infections caused by staphylococci and streptococci. Penicillins are still widely used today, though many types of bacteria have developed resistance following extensive use. All penicillins are β-lactam antibiotics. While the number of penicillin-resistant bacteria is increasing, penicillin can still be used to treat a wide range of infections caused by certain susceptible bacteria, including Streptococci, Staphylococci, Clostridium, and Listeria genera.
Penicillin antibiotics are the most common cause of drug allergies. Some people who are allergic to penicillin are also allergic to other closely related antibiotics, including cephalosporins, such as cefprozil, cefuroxime, and cephalexin. 
Penicillin is a group of antibiotics that are commonly used to treat different types of gram positive and gram negative bacterial infections. In their structure, beta lactam ring is located due to this reason these drugs are also called as beta lactam antibiotics. 
Penicillins are a certain collection of antibiotics that eliminate infection causing bacteria. Also known in short as pen or PCN, they originate from a type of fungi called Penicillium fungi. They are used in the treatment or prevention of many different bacterial infections, usually caused by Gram-positive organisms. 