Le Frecce trains at platform. The fastest way to travel from Rome to Florence is by taking the Le Frecce high-speed train. This modern and luxurious train will get you to your destination in only 1 hour and 30 minutes. For actual travel times, check out our timetable. An Italian regional train crosses a bridge. An Italian regional train crosses a bridge. Taking a regional train from Rome to Florence means more travel time than by high-speed train. It also means you don't have to reserve a seat and you can stop along the way in charming Italian cities like Orvieto and Arezzo.
Take the train from Florence to Nice Ville station and travel 1st class for this trip which is cheap (44euros) and about a 7 hour trip. Once in Nice, you can take day trips by train to Villefranche, Monaco/Monte Carlo, Menton or the other way to Antibes, Cannes, St-Tropez. 
Frequent trains run directly between Rome Termini Station and Florence Santa Maria Novella Station (the main train stations for each city). Some frecce and regional trains also leave from Roma Tiburtina station. You can check current Rome to Florence schedules and ticket prices on the Trenitalia web site. People in the US may find it easier and more convenient to buy tickets ahead of time through Select Italy-go to Select Italy train tickets page to make reservations and buy tickets direct. Frecce trains are the fastest and most expensive, making the trip from Rome to Florence as short as one hour and thirty-one minutes. You'll need to reserve a seat on these trains. Less expensive regional trains take two to four hours and do not have reserved seats
Italian regional train. Italian regional train. Taking a regional train from Rome to Venice means more travel time than by high-speed train. It also means you'll save money and have the possibility to stop along the way in world-renowned cities like Florence and Bologna. If you're traveling with a Eurail pass, you don't need to buy a ticket.
Local Train. If you are not in a hurry to get from Rome to Florence, take a local train. This type of train stops in more stations, making it more than twice the length of the express train journey at just over three hours; some routes can go as long as five hours. Express Train. The fastest and most comfortable way to get from Rome to Florence is by express train. The ride takes under two hours and you can choose from first and second class seats; second class provides plenty of room and the ticket prices are cheaper. To identify an express train, look for the Eurostar mark
Currently, here is how to get to Montepulciano from Rome and Florence by public transportation: FROM ROME: Depart Rome Termini (or Tiburtina) to Chiusi Scalo Station by Trenitalia Regionale Train at 6:43 or 8:43 or at 2-hour intervals thereafter: 9 Euros and 110 minutes; 
Take the train from Florence SMN (Santa Maria Novella) to Rome's main station, Stazione Termini, and switch to the train to the airport. However, I would never do this the day of a flight. Transportation in Italy is subject to delays and strikes (though less so on a main line like this). 