In Oklahoma blueberries are grown in home gardens or on small farms as a U-Pick crop. Writing Prompt: Write a simile with blueberries as your central image. BE A FOOD EXPLORER. Eat blueberries on top of your ice cream in a bag, mixed with plain yogurt and sliced bananas or try a handful on breakfast cereal or in salad.
Berries in Oklahoma. Berries grown in Oklahoma are mainly blackberries, raspberries, strawberries, blueberries and grapes. The culture ranges from easy to difficult and most of the berry groups will have different requirments.
Plant Selection There are three basic types of blueberries that will grow in Oklahoma: highbush, rabbiteye, and southern highbush. Highbush blueberries (Vaccinium corymbosum, V. australe) grow 5 to 23 feet tall and require 800 hours of chilling below 45° F. They ripen in May, and perform best in northern Oklahoma.
Oklahoma Fruit of the Month: Blueberries. The blueberry is a native American fruit. Early settlers cherished it as a staple ingredient in foods and medicines. They incorporated the berries into their diets, eating them fresh off the bush and adding them to soups, stews, and many other foods.
Instructions. Choose the cultivar of blueberry that you'll grow. The Oklahoma State University recommends the northern highbush if you live in the Tulsa area or north. Those in Oklahoma City and south should grow varieties of southern highbush blueberries or the rabbiteye cultivar. Purchase two-to three-year-old bushes from a reputable nursery. It's very difficult to start a blueberry bush from seed. Locate an appropriate spot for planting in your yard with full sun.
Strawberries are the number one fruit crop grown in Oklahoma. Plant them in February and March in Oklahoma. In the southeastern section of the state, they also may be planted in the fall. They need full sun, well drained, slightly acidic soil and regular irrigation during dry periods.
1 Blueberries are picky about soil. 2  They require one that is acidic, high in organic matter, and well-drained yet moist. pH should ideally be between 4 and 5. 3  Bushes should be planted in the early spring. 4  If available, one to three-year-old plants are a good choice.