Investment Banking Job Responsibilities. An investment banker will work to generate funds for banks in two different ways. First, the investment banker will produce funds by selling stock within their company. This stock can be sold to employees, corporations or other individuals. The other way investment bankers acquire funds for the bank is by seeking out venture capital. Investment Banking Salary and Wages. The average starting salary for an investment banker with no experience is $60,200 per year. This is a base salary as investment bankers get substantial bonuses. It is possible for a junior investment banker to earn $90,000 to over $100,000 in their first year after bonuses.
On the behalf of the bank and its clients, a large investment bank's primary function is buying and selling products. In market making, traders will buy and sell financial products with the goal of making money on each trade. An investment bank may also assist companies involved in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and provide ancillary services such as market making, trading of derivatives and equity securities, and FICC services (fixed income instruments, currencies, and commodities).
Global Asset Management. We are responsible for the investment of funds and the design of investment products across the HSBC Group, serving the bank’s customer base of retail and private clients, intermediaries, corporates and institutions. We manage investments in segregated accounts and pooled funds. Retail Banking and Wealth Management has operations in three other key areas, which also offer a range of roles. These are: Wealth Management. We help the bank’s retail and private clients to grow, manage and preserve their wealth, through services such as HSBC Premier.
Corporate finance is the area of finance dealing with the sources of funding and the capital structure of corporations and the actions that managers take to increase the value of the firm to the shareholders, as well as the tools and analysis used to allocate financial resources. Working capital management is the management of the company's monetary funds that deal with the short-term operating balance of current assets and current liabilities; the focus here is on managing cash, inventories, and short-term borrowing and lending (such as the terms on credit extended to customers).
In essence, investment banks are a bridge between large enterprises and the investor. Their main roles are to advise businesses and governments on how to meet their financial challenges and to help them procure financing, whether it be from stock offerings, bond issues or derivative products. Role as an advisor. Underwriting stocks and bonds. If an entity decides to raise funds through an equity or debt offering, one or more investment banks will also underwrite the securities. This means the institution buys a certain number of shares – or bonds – at a predetermined price and re-sells them through an exchange.
For corporations, investment bankers offer information on when and how to place their securities on the open market, an activity very important to an investment bank's reputation. Therefore, investment bankers play a very important role in issuing new security offerings. An investment bank may also assist companies involved in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and provide ancillary services such as market making, trading of derivatives and equity securities, and FICC services (fixed income instruments, currencies, and commodities).
The terms corporate finance and corporate financier are also associated with investment banking. The typical role of an investment bank is to evaluate the company's financial needs and raise the appropriate type of capital that best fits those needs. Working capital management is the management of the company's monetary funds that deal with the short-term operating balance of current assets and current liabilities; the focus here is on managing cash, inventories, and short-term borrowing and lending (such as the terms on credit extended to customers).
The two main lines of business in investment banking are called the sell side and the buy side. The  sell side  involves trading securities for cash or for other securities (e.g. facilitating transactions, market-making), or the promotion of securities (e.g. underwriting, research, etc.). An investment bank may also assist companies involved in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and provide ancillary services such as market making, trading of derivatives and equity securities, and FICC services (fixed income instruments, currencies, and commodities).
Risk management involves analyzing the market and credit risk that an investment bank or its clients take onto their balance sheet during transactions or trades. Credit risk focuses around capital markets activities, such as loan syndication, bond issuance, restructuring, and leveraged finance. An investment bank may also assist companies involved in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and provide ancillary services such as market making, trading of derivatives and equity securities, and FICC services (fixed income instruments, currencies, and commodities).
Investment Management is a term used to describe asset management (including hedge funds), fund management, wealth management or portfolio management. Basically, it is the professional management of collective investments (including insurance and pension funds) to meet specified investment goals for investor benefit. While many investment banks may have asset management or other related divisions, investment management is a large and important global industry in its own right, responsible for trillions of dollars, euros, pounds and yen.