Ice ax (axe): A mountaineering tool for snow and ice climbing, pointed at the base of the shaft and with a head consisting of a pick and an adze. A standard ax shaft may be 60 to 75 cm in length while technical axes are typically 50 cm long. Second or third tools may be shorter yet, 38-45 cm. Rime: A thin layer of ice and hard snow over rock. Verglas is a thin layer of ice over rock. Both are hazardous conditions that might end an ascent. Rock!: What climbers in the vicinity yell to protect their team and others when nature or a climber sends a rock down the mountain.
Cornice hazards in Mountaineering. In mountaineering a cornice is an overhanging ledge of snow on the edge of a ridge, cliff, or crest of a mountain. Cornices form by wind blowing snow over the leeward edge in successive layers. They can be very dangerous from traveling above and below them. A person or skier putting weight on top of a cornice can cause it to break off and collapse and causing a major fall, with no ground beneath, just snow or ice.
noun. The sport or activity of climbing mountains: the village of Glencoe is surrounded by fantastic mountains—ideal for skiing and mountaineering in the winter [as modifier]: a mountaineering expedition. More example sentences. 1  Most mountaineering trainers say that rock climbing is all in the head. 1 Most mountaineering trainers say that rock climbing is all in the head. 2  Equipment failure in rock climbing and mountaineering is extraordinarily rare. 3  She will also try her hand at ice climbing, mountaineering and trekking.
The term mountaineering describes the sport of mountain climbing, including ski mountaineering. Hiking in the mountains can also be a simple form of mountaineering when it involves scrambling, or short stretches of the more basic grades of rock climbing, as well as crossing glaciers. Mountaineering is often called Alpinism, especially in European languages, which implies climbing with difficulty such high mountains as the Alps. A mountaineer with such great skill is called an Alpinist
Cornices. Cornices are deposits of snow, resembling frozen waves, that form on the leeward side of a ridge or peak. They are formed as wind constantly blows snow over the edge. As the snow is blown across the ridge, some of it begins to accumulate horizontally out over thin air. 
In mountaineering the best practice is to avoid going onto the cornice by staying far enough back from the edge. Cornices form by wind blowing snow over the leeward edge in successive layers. They can be very dangerous from traveling above and below them. A person or skier putting weight on top of a cornice can cause it to break off and collapse and causing a major fall, with no ground beneath, just snow or ice.
The UIAA or Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme is the world governing body in mountaineering and climbing, addressing issues like access, medical, mountain protection, safety, youth and ice climbing. Mountaineering is often called Alpinism, especially in European languages, which implies climbing with difficulty such high mountains as the Alps. A mountaineer with such great skill is called an Alpinist
While mountaineering began as attempts to reach the highest point of unclimbed big mountains it has branched into specializations that address different aspects of the mountain and consists of three (3) areas: rock-craft, snow-craft, and skiing, depending on whether the route chosen is over rock, snow or ice. Mountaineering is often called Alpinism, especially in European languages, which implies climbing with difficulty such high mountains as the Alps. A mountaineer with such great skill is called an Alpinist