Report Abuse. Normally, you get everything with the tux, and it can cost over $200. My fiancee rented his from The Tux Shop in our local mall up here in WA. He got a specialized tux with black pinstripes and everything and it cost $178. Try even small wedding dress shops, we have one called Millies, and a basic tux to rent can cost as low as $80. Definitely check around, and ask for their basic tux prices!
1 On the low end, tuxedo rentals start at about $50 to $100 for rental of a basic wool tuxedo and vest. 2  In the mid-range, a groom can buy a nice suit for between $300 and $800. Discounts: 1  When renting a tuxedo, the vest, tie shoes and shirt typically cost extra. 2  And, of course, if you buy a suit, you will need to buy a shirt, tie and cufflinks, which can add $100 or more to your cost. 3  The average groom spends $116 on accessories, according to the Bridal Association of America.
1 Like any suit, it really comes down to the brand and the style that you are looking to rent. 2  If you do not want to rent, plan on spending anywhere from $125 to as much as $400 for a complete suit or tux. 3  At Menswearhouse.com, there are discounted prom tuxedos where the prices start at $69. 1 The style of the tux can make you look elegant but it can also cost more. 2  The size of the tux can also affect the price. 3  Basically, extra large sizes are much more than small and medium ones. 4  If you have to go to a big and tall shop, the costs will be even higher.
According to The Knot, new tuxedos typically cost between $300 and $500 to buy, and renting a tux costs 10 percent to 30 percent of this price. As such, you can expect to pay between $30 and $150 to rent your tux. At high-end shops, of course, these prices are higher. If you attend enough black-tie events so that it's no longer cost effective to repeatedly rent tuxedos, buying one is a smart approach. If you're on a tight budget, some stores rent the groom's tuxedo for free, provided his groomsmen pay for their tux rentals there.
Tuxedo rentals are available in the majority of our Men's Wearhouse and Men's Wearhouse and Tux store locations. To find a store near you that features our Rental Service, visit our Store Locator. 
1 If you do not want to rent, plan on spending anywhere from $125 to as much as $400 for a complete suit or tux. 2  At Menswearhouse.com, there are discounted prom tuxedos where the prices start at $69. 3  On the other hand, Alsformalwear.com offers tuxedo rentals for just $57.99 and it is already discounted. 1 The style of the tux can make you look elegant but it can also cost more. 2  The size of the tux can also affect the price. 3  Basically, extra large sizes are much more than small and medium ones. 4  If you have to go to a big and tall shop, the costs will be even higher.
But otherwise, the question most groom's face is whether to rent or buy a tuxedo. Money is the main factor in your wedding formalwear decision. Renting will cost about 10% to 30% of the price of a new tuxedo, and tuxedo prices begin in the $300 to $500 range. If you attend three or four formal events per year, buying a tux may be worthwhile. Look at it as an investment -- you can wear it for years and it will never go out of style. 
1 Tuxedo or suit costs vary, depending on whether the groom rents or buys. 2  On the low end, tuxedo rentals start at about $50 to $100 for rental of a basic wool tuxedo and vest. 3  In the mid-range, a groom can buy a nice suit for between $300 and $800. Discounts: 1  When renting a tuxedo, the vest, tie shoes and shirt typically cost extra. 2  And, of course, if you buy a suit, you will need to buy a shirt, tie and cufflinks, which can add $100 or more to your cost. 3  The average groom spends $116 on accessories, according to the Bridal Association of America.
2. Don't overspend on the tuxedo. The average cost of renting a tuxedo is $141, according to WeddingStats.org. You can cut the price if you don't order the deluxe packages that can include such things as a pocket square and vest. When my son went to proms, he saved a considerable amount of money by picking the no-frills tuxedo. Proms are expensive, but I didn't realize how much until I read a story in USA Today that estimated the average prom outing costs $1,078. For teenagers living in the Northeast, the cost is close to $2,000! However, it is possible to shrink prom costs to a more manageable level.