For reasons no one fully understands, in rheumatoid arthritis, the immune system-which is designed to protect our health by attacking foreign cells such as viruses and bacteria-instead attacks the body's own tissues, specifically the synovium, a thin membrane that lines the joints. Treatment. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis may involve medications such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), aspirin and analgesics. Corticosteroids, such as prednisone may be prescribed, and are effective in decreasing the inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
Arthritis means joint inflammation. The joint inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis causes swelling, pain, stiffness, and redness in the joints. The inflammation of rheumatoid disease can also occur in tissues around the joints, such as the tendons, ligaments, and muscles. 1 Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that can cause chronic inflammation of the joints and other areas of the body. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and signs include. 3  joint pain in the feet, hands, and knees, 4  swollen joints, 5  fever, 6  tender joints, 7  loss of joint function,
Rheumatoid arthritis of the knee. Rheumatoid arthritis of the knee causes the joints to become tender or painful, stiff, warm and swollen. Normally, a small pouch covered with a thin tissue called synovium lies between the two pieces of joint cartilage. Cartilage is a material that covers the ends of joint bones. The best treatment for knee rheumatoid arthritis is early and intensive medical care. Medical treatments include the use of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), which are used with NSAIDs (non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and/or steroids in low doses.
Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the body’s immune system – which normally protects its health by attacking foreign substances like bacteria and viruses – mistakenly attacks the joints. 
Osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis in the knee. It is a degenerative,wear-and-tear type of arthritis that occurs most often in people 50 years of age and older, but may occur in younger people, too. In osteoarthritis, the cartilage in the knee joint gradually wears away. The most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, but there are more than 100 different forms. In 2012, more than 51 million people reported that they had been diagnosed with some form of arthritis, according to the National Health Interview Survey.
Symptoms. The primary symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis are similar to osteoarthritis and include pain, swelling and the loss of motion. In addition, other symptoms may include loss of appetite, fever, energy loss, anemia, and rheumatoid nodules (lumps of tissue under the skin). Treatment. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis may involve medications such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), aspirin and analgesics. Corticosteroids, such as prednisone may be prescribed, and are effective in decreasing the inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that affects the joints. It causes pain, swelling, and stiffness. If one knee or hand has rheumatoid arthritis, usually the other does too. This disease often occurs in more than one joint and can affect any joint in the body. People with this disease may feel sick and tired, and they sometimes get fevers.