Disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP) is a rare, non-cancerous, non-contagious skin disorder. Disseminated means that it is widely spread, most likely over the front and lower arms and legs -- areas that are typically frequently exposed to sun over a period of time. Superficial means that DSAP occurs on the outer layer of the skin. Porokeratosis means that these skin changes are seen as a variety of flat, thickened lesions with slightly raised rims. You can feel this flaky rim when running your hand lightly down the arms and legs. DSAP is a chronic disorder; it can be treated, but it cannot be cured.
Porokeratosis may be divided into the following clinical types: 1  Plaque-type porokeratosis (also known as Classic porokeratosis and Porokeratosis of Mibelli) is characterized by skin lesions that start as small, brownish papules that slowly enlarge to form irregular, annular, hyperkeratotic or verrucous plaques. 1 Porokeratosis plantaris discreta is a skin condition that occurs in adults, with a 4:1 female preponderance, characterized by a sharply marginated, rubbery, wide-based papules. 2  It is also known as Steinberg's lesion. 3  It was characterized in 1970.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Porokeratosis is an uncommon type of skin condition characterized by scaly, discolored, dry specks or patches on certain parts of the body. It is possible to have a single lesion or multiple abnormal spots on the body. Lesions typically do not change in size and shape over time, and any changes that do occur can be signs of developing skin cancer. Skin carcinomas that arise due to porokeratosis are usually characterized by hard, scaly, dark-colored lesions.
Excessive sun exposure may cause the development of porokeratosis. Porokeratosis is a common skin condition. Exposure to artificial UV light, such as the type used in tanning beds, correlates with porokeratosis. As porokeratosis spreads, a person may start to experience fever and fatigue. It's important for porokeratosis patients to wear sunscreen while outdoors, regardless of the weather. It is possible to have a single lesion or multiple abnormal spots on the body. Lesions typically do not change in size and shape over time, and any changes that do occur can be signs of developing skin cancer. Skin carcinomas that arise due to porokeratosis are usually characterized by hard, scaly, dark-colored lesions.
Disseminated Superficial Actinic Porokeratosis (DSAP). It is the most common type of Porokeratosis. It is a non-contagious skin condition. This type of skin disorder is also hereditary; its cause is of genetic origin. Linear Porokeratosis. It is also a rare disease as it is also listed as a rare disease but affects both male and female. The skin disorder is characterized by papules and plaques on the body which form a linear pattern.
Porokeratosis of Mibelli: A rare skin disorder characterized by skin lesions that tend to spread and may be located on the limbs, face, genitals and mouth. The condition progresses and regresses spontaneously and mild scarring may result. There is an associated increased risk of skin cancer. 
Porokeratosis is a disorder of keratinization or a skin disorder. The disease is widely known as a hereditary dermatitis; it runs down a family related line. Its main characteristic is the spreading of lesions on the body. The disease can affect any part of the body, and it mostly affects the adults. Linear Porokeratosis. It is also a rare disease as it is also listed as a rare disease but affects both male and female. The skin disorder is characterized by papules and plaques on the body which form a linear pattern.
Disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP) is a non-contagious skin condition with apparent genetic origin in the SART3 gene. It most often presents in sun-exposed areas of the body. 
Porokeratosis is a clonal disorder of keratinization characterized by one or more atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella. Multiple clinical variants of porokeratosis are recognized. Immunosuppression may induce new lesions or cause preexisting lesions to flare. New lesions of porokeratosis have occurred as quickly as 4 months after initiation of immunosuppressive therapy, or as long as 14 years and may resolve following cessation of immunosuppressive therapy.
Porokeratosis is a medical condition in which the process of keratinization is affected and disrupted. The patient presents patches of atrophy on the skin, these having distinctive clinical and histopathological features. 