Likewise the grosbeaks in this family are sometimes called cardinal-grosbeaks to distinguish them from other grosbeaks. The name cardinal-grosbeak can also apply to this family as a whole. Most species are rated by the IUCN as being of least concern, though some are near threatened. They are robust, seed-eating birds with strong bills. The family ranges in size from the 12-cm (4.7-in), 11.5-g (0.40-oz) and up orange-breasted bunting to the 25-cm (9.8-in), 85-g (2.99-oz) black-headed saltator.
Cardinals, in the family Cardinalidae, are passerine birds found in North and South America. They are also known as cardinal-grosbeaks and cardinal-buntings. The South American cardinals in the genus Paroaria are placed in another family, the Thraupidae (previously placed in Emberizidae). They are robust, seed-eating birds with strong bills. The family ranges in size from the 12-cm (4.7-in), 11.5-g (0.40-oz) and up orange-breasted bunting to the 25-cm (9.8-in), 85-g (2.99-oz) black-headed saltator.
The northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal. It can be found in southern Canada, through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico. The northern cardinal is the state bird of seven states, more than any other species: Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia, and West Virginia. It was also a candidate to become the state bird of Delaware, but lost to the Delaware Blue Hen
1 The Northern Cardinal is actually one of seven species in the world with the name Cardinal. 2  Although it is a bird that historically called the Southern U.S. its home, the modifier Northern is appropriate because all of the other six species are located in South America. 1 Mated pairs will often sing duets together. 2  The Northern Cardinal is actually one of seven species in the world with the name Cardinal. 3
The only cardinal bird in Michigan is the Northern Cardinal. The term Northern in the common name refers to its range, because they are only found in the Northern Hemisphere. And the “Cardinal” name was derived from the vivid red plumage of the male, which resembles the robes of the Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church. But there are actually several birds in the world with the name Cardinal. Cardinalis is a genus of cardinal in the family Cardinalidae and there are three species ranging across North and South America. 1. 
Taxonomy/Description The Northern Cardinal is a member of the Order Passeriformes which means perching birds. It is in the family Cardinalidae, which is made up of cardinals and grosbeaks. It is also in the Genus, Cardinalis, which contains the Cardinals.photo Ivan Andrijevic The Northern Cardinal is a medium sized songbird with a large crest on the head, and a thick conical bill. The males are entirely colored bright red, except for a black mask on their faces.
The northern cardinal was one of the many species originally described by Linnaeus in his 18th-century work, Systema Naturae. It was initially included in the genus Loxia, which now contains only crossbills. The northern cardinal is the state bird of seven states, more than any other species: Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia, and West Virginia. It was also a candidate to become the state bird of Delaware, but lost to the Delaware Blue Hen
Scientific name: Cardinalis cardinalis Common name: Northern Cardinal. (Information in this Species Page was compiled by Tim Burg in Spring, 2001 and Mindy Beale in Spring 2004 for Biology 220W at Penn State New Kensington). Appearance. Appearance. The northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) is one of the most recognized birds of North America. The bright red body feathers and distinctive black mask of the male and the more subdued but equally elegant olive brown and red-tinted females stand out clearly in their wide range of preferred habitats.