Pickled eggs will keep for one month in the refrigerator. To make your own pickling spice mixture, use 1 tsp (5 mL) peppercorns, 10 whole cloves, 1 bay leaf and 2 dried whole chili peppers. For a quick method of pickling eggs, place hard-cooked eggs in pickle or pickled beet juice. Step 1 Combine vinegar, water, sugar, pickling spices and salt in small saucepan. Step 2 Bring to boil, stirring frequently, until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer for 10 minutes. Strain liquid through sieve or cheesecloth, if desired. Step 3 Place eggs in 4-cup (1 L) jar with lid.
*******TEXAS PARTY PICKLED EGGS: 3 c. white vinegar 1/4 c. sugar 2 tbsp. pickling spice 3 tsp. salt 1 bay leaf 16 oz. jar Hot chili peppers 18 shelled hard boiled eggs Cook first 5 ingredients in medium saucepan over high heat until sugar completely dissolves. Add juice and a few peppers. 
Add the seasonings of your choice. If this is your first time making pickled eggs, try 1 tbsp. (18g) of salt, 3 tbsp. (18g) of pepper flakes and 6 peppercorns. 1  For curried pickled eggs, try 1 tbsp. ( 2 6g) of yellow curry powder, 1 tsp. ( 3 2g) of mustard seeds, 3 cardamom pods and 1/2 cup (100g) of sugar. 4  You may choose to increase the amount of vinegar in your pickling brine to a ration of 1 cup water to 1 cup vinegar. They are boiled eggs that are pickled with spices. You can learn how to make pickled eggs at home, and they can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 weeks.
All of the following pickled egg recipes are for storage in the refrigerator. Pickled eggs should never be at room temperature except for serving time, when they should be limited to no more than 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40 to 140 degrees F. Place a lid on the pan and bring eggs to a boil. Turn down the heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Place the eggs in cold water and when cool, remove shells. Crack the shell of the egg all over. Peel, starting at the large end of the egg.
Pickled eggs are a popular bar or pub food in the United States and the United Kingdom. They are boiled eggs that are pickled with spices. You can learn how to make pickled eggs at home, and they can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 weeks.
When pickling, the eggs should be stored in the refrigerator for a minimum of 2 days, although some people leave it for 1-4 weeks. After pickling, the eggs are traditionally stored at room temperature. But, to be safe, I would suggest keeping them in the fridge. If we want to pickle a raw egg, which is a pretty common science classroom experiment, we take the egg (shell and all) and place it in a mixture of vinegar and water. The shell is made primarily of calcium carbonate. The acid reacts with this material, essentially dissolving it away.
Place a lid on the pan and bring eggs to a boil. Remove the pan of eggs from the burner, leaving the cover in place, and allow to sit for 15-18 minutes, adjusting time up or down 3 minutes for larger or smaller eggs. Caution: Home pickled eggs stored at room temperature have caused botulism. For the report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), see http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm4934a2.htm The Editorial Note in this report cautions against room temperature pickling and storage, also.
All of the following pickled egg recipes are for storage in the refrigerator. Pickled eggs should never be at room temperature except for serving time, when they should be limited to no more than 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40 to 140 degrees F. Caution: Home pickled eggs stored at room temperature have caused botulism. For the report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), see http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm4934a2.htm The Editorial Note in this report cautions against room temperature pickling and storage, also.
Pickled eggs are essentially peeled hard-boiled eggs that have been preserved in a solution of vinegar, salt and a selection of spices. They can be kept for several weeks or even months in a sealed jar and do not have to be stored in the refrigerator. 
Place a lid on the pan and bring eggs to a boil. Turn down the heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Place the eggs in cold water and when cool, remove shells. Crack the shell of the egg all over. Caution: Home pickled eggs stored at room temperature have caused botulism. For the report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), see http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm4934a2.htm The Editorial Note in this report cautions against room temperature pickling and storage, also.