A chief executive officer (CEO in American English) or managing director (MD in British English) describes the position of the most senior corporate officer, executive, or administrator in charge of managing a non-profit or for-profit organization. Responsibilities [edit]. The responsibilities of an organization's CEO are set by the organization's board of directors or other authority, depending on the organization's legal structure. They can be far-reaching or quite limited and are typically enshrined in a formal delegation of authority.
BREAKING DOWN 'Chief Executive Officer-CEO'. There are various other titles for the position of CEO including president and executive or managing director. The role of the CEO will vary from one company to another depending on its size and organization. In general, the chief executive officer (CEO) is thought of as the highest ranking officer in a company while the president ... BROWSE BY TOPIC: Corporate Culture Corporate Governance.
CEO, CFO and CIO are titles for top executives at a corporation. The exact job descriptions depend on the company, but essentially: - The CEO is the Chief Executive Officer, the big boss. However, in corporations they report to the board of directors who have ultimate control and responsibility, including hiring and firing the CEO. - A CFO is Chief Financial Officer. They direct a company's financial goals, objectives, and budgets. 
CEO (Chief Executive Officer) is a top-ranking corporate position, responsible for overseeing operations. Often the company's president, the CEO reports to the chairman of the board and board members. 
The Chief Executive Officer is a manager at or near the top level of the organization. He or she is responsible for making organization-wide decisions. The CEO also establishe … s goals and plans that affect the entire organization. + 20 others found this useful. The exact job descriptions depend on the company, but essentially: - The CEO is the Chief Executive Officer, … the big boss. However, in corporations they report to the board of directors who have ultimate control and responsibility, including hiring and firing the CEO. - A CFO is Chief Financial Officer.
Definition. Top executive responsible for a firm's overall operations and performance. He or she is the leader of the firm, serves as the main link between the board of directors (the board) and the firm's various parts or levels, and is held solely responsible for the firm's success or failure.
chief executive officer (CEO). Top executive responsible for a firm's overall operations and performance. He or she is the leader of the firm, serves as the main link between the board of directors (the board) and the firm's various parts or levels, and is held solely responsible for the firm's success or failure.
CEO stands for Chief Executive Officer. It is the highest position anyone can get up the corporate ladder. Being a CEO, means you are the boss of all bosses. But CEO functions may vary from one organization to another. Even the job title CEO may not be the same for other companies. In these companies, the CEO may be called as President or Executive Director.
CEO means Chief Executive Officer. It is the highest position in a particular organization. For many companies, their CEOs represent the face of the entire organization. Over the years, the position of CEO is associated with leadership, power, prestige, and big financial payoffs.
The CEO of a corporation or company typically reports to the board of directors and is charged with maximizing the value of the entity. Titles also often given to the holder of the CEO position include president and chief executive (CE). Responsibilities [edit]. The responsibilities of an organization's CEO are set by the organization's board of directors or other authority, depending on the organization's legal structure. They can be far-reaching or quite limited and are typically enshrined in a formal delegation of authority.