1 Copper sulfate crystals is still used today dissolved in water in a foot bath for sheep to pass through as a prevention and cure for foot rot. 2  School Projects-Growing crystals of Copper Sulfate is one of the more common science projects for middle school and high school children. 1 (You can swim right away). 2  Copper sulfate pentahydrate is a fungicide. 3  However, some fungi are capable of adapting to elevated levels of copper ions. 4  Mixed with lime it is called Bordeaux mixture and used to control fungus on grapes, melons, and other berries.
Uses. Copper sulphate is a very versatile chemical with as extensive a range of uses in industry as it has in agriculture. Its principal employment is in agriculture, and, up to a generation or so ago, about its only uses in industry were as a mordant for dyeing and for electroplating. Uses of Copper Sulphate. Copper sulphate, blue stone, blue vitriol are all common names for pentahydrated cupric sulphate, CuSO 4 5H 2 O, which is the best known and the most widely used of the copper salts. Indeed it is often the starting raw material for the production of many of the other copper salts.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Copper sulphate (granular) has multiple uses such as a feed additive micro-nutrient, fertilizer micro-nutrient and a pesticide (algaecide and fungicide).
The amount of copper sulfate that is lethal to one-half (50%) of experimental animals fed the material is referred to as its acute oral lethal dose fifty, or LD50. The LD50 for copper sulfate is 30 mg/kg in rats. Basic copper sulfate: BSC Copper Fungicide; CP Basic Sulfate; Tri-Basic Copper Sulfate. Pentahydrate form: bluestone, blue vitriol, Salzburg vitriol, Roman vitriol, and blue copperas (17). Bordeaux Mixture is a combination of hydrated lime and copper sulfate (21).
Due to its toxicity, it is not recommended for small children. Copper sulfate is often used to demonstrate an exothermic reaction, in which steel wool or magnesium ribbon is placed in an aqueous solution of CuSO4. It is used in school chemistry courses to demonstrate the principle of mineral hydration.
Copper Sulphate is a widely used chemical compound comprised of Copper, Sulphur and Oxygen whose formula is CuSO4. Crystals of Copper Sulphate are often bright blue and the substance was known once as Blue Vitriol or Bluestone. Copper sulfate was used in the past as an emetic, (An agent that induces vomiting). 1 (You can swim right away). 2  Copper sulfate pentahydrate is a fungicide. 3  However, some fungi are capable of adapting to elevated levels of copper ions. 4  Mixed with lime it is called Bordeaux mixture and used to control fungus on grapes, melons, and other berries.
Commercial copper sulfate is usually about 98% pure copper sulfate, and may contain traces of water. Anhydrous Copper sulfate is 39.81 percent copper and 60.19 percent sulfate by mass, and in its blue, hydrous form, it is 25.47% copper, 38.47% sulfate (12.82% sulfur) and 36.06% water by mass. Copper (II) sulfate, also known as cupric sulfate or copper sulphate, is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Cu SO4.
It is generally used as insecticide in agriculture & in the wood industry.   The uses of copper sulphate are:     As a Herbicide, Fungicide and Pesticide.   To control the amount of algae in ponds etc.   To test for proteins (used in the Biuret reagent).   To test blood for anaemia. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Copper sulphate (granular) has multiple uses such as a feed additive micro-nutrient, fertilizer micro-nutrient and a pesticide (algaecide and fungicide).
Copper sulfate is classified as a general use material by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The warning signal DANGER must appear on the labels of all copper sulfate end-products containing 99% active ingredient in crystalline form. Copper sulfate is a fungicide used to control bacterial and fungal diseases of fruit, vegetable, nut and field crops. Some of the diseases that are controlled by this fungicide include mildew, leaf spots, blights and apple scab. Basic copper sulfate: BSC Copper Fungicide; CP Basic Sulfate; Tri-Basic Copper Sulfate. Pentahydrate form: bluestone, blue vitriol, Salzburg vitriol, Roman vitriol, and blue copperas (17). Bordeaux Mixture is a combination of hydrated lime and copper sulfate (21).