What is the medical term for a muscle tumor? What is the medical term for a muscle tumor? 
Muscle Tear Definition. Pulled muscles, tearing of the muscle fiber and muscle strains are common injuries, usually occurring during a sporting activity. These three names designate one and the same clinical condition, but reflect different degrees of straining muscles. 
Uterine smooth muscle tumors are neoplasms composed of smooth muscle; they range from benign leiomyomas to low-grade and high-grade leiomyosarcomas. Several histologic subtypes exist, including usual (spindled), epithelioid, and myxoid tumors. The majority of uterine smooth muscle tumors occur in the corpus, but the cervix, vaginal canal, broad ligament, and ovaries may also be involved. Within the corpus, the tumors are categorized on the basis of their anatomic location.
A sarcoma (from the Greek σάρξ sarx meaning flesh) is a cancer that arises from transformed cells of mesenchymal origin. Thus, malignant tumors made of cancellous bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, vascular, or hematopoietic tissues are, by definition, considered sarcomas. This is in contrast to a malignant tumor originating from epithelial cells, which are termed carcinoma.
Therefore Leiomyoma is a Tumor of Smooth Muscle. Leiomyoma. The root word of or relating to muscle is my(o), and oma is the suffix for tumor. Therefore, Myoma is a Muscle Tumor. The prefix rhabd(o) means striated or rod shaped, my(o) is the root word of or relating to muscle, and oma is the suffix for tumor. Therefore, Rhabdomyoma is a Tumor of Striated Muscle. The prefix lei(o) means smooth, my(o) is the root word of or relating to muscle, and oma is the suffix for tumor. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The root word of or relating to muscle is my(o), and oma is the suffix for tumor. Therefore, Myoma is a Muscle Tumor. The prefix rhabd(o) means striated or rod shaped, my(o) is the root word of or relating to muscle, and oma is the suffix for tumor.
Carcinoma is the medical term meaning any cancerous tumor.   A tumor is a growth. A cancerous tumor is a growth that continues unchecked and spreads throughout the body an … d is referred to as malignant or a cancer. 11 people found this useful. Peakay Tea. 659,711 Contributions. Smooth muscle-benign = Leiomyoma, malignant = Leiomyosarcoma. Skeletal muscle-benign = Rhabdomyoma, malignant = Rhabdomyosarcoma. Myoma. A tumor that originates from muscle tissue is called a myoma (bening) or myosarcoma (malignant).
Usually, in a bland myxoid smooth muscle tumor, the tumor cells are small, but in hydropic degeneration, the tumor cells are the size of normal smooth muscle cells. Epithelioid uterine smooth muscle tumors are characterized by polygonal cells with centrally placed, round nuclei. The majority of uterine smooth muscle tumors occur in the corpus, but the cervix, vaginal canal, broad ligament, and ovaries may also be involved. Within the corpus, the tumors are categorized on the basis of their anatomic location.
Definition and causes to Muscle tumors – Muscle cancer. A tumor growth in the skeletal muscles is a rare condition, and it will in most cases involve a benign tumor. There are only a few of the malignant tumors (muscle cancer) annually with less than one such case per one million inhabitants. The tumor arises from increased and/or altered growth of muscle cells. Benign tumors are unable to grow into surrounding tissues or the spread with the blood. - But the malignant tumors have this ability
A muscle tumor is a myoma. Smooth muscle-benign = Leiomyoma, malignant = Leiomyosarcoma. Skeletal muscle-benign = Rhabdomyoma, malignant = Rhabdomyosarcoma. Myoma. A tumor that originates from muscle tissue is called a myoma (bening) or myosarcoma (malignant).