Giotto is an uncommonly occurring given name for men. Giotto is also an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Adoption of this boy name reached its apex during the years 1880-1889 (usage of 0.33%) and has become significantly lower since, with Godfrey becoming less stylish. Below is a charted analysis of the usage of Giotto and associated names.
Giotto's masterwork is the decoration of the Scrovegni Chapel in Padua, also known as the Arena Chapel, completed around 1305. This fresco cycle depicts the life of the Virgin and the life of Christ. It is regarded as one of the supreme masterpieces of the Early Renaissance. That Giotto painted the Arena Chapel and that he was chosen by the Comune of Florence in 1334 to design the new campanile (bell tower) of the Florence Cathedral are among the few certainties of his biography.
Godfrey is the only prominent alternative form of Giotto (outside Top 1000) . Adoption of this boy name reached its apex during the years 1880-1889 (usage of 0.33%) and has become significantly lower since, with Godfrey becoming less stylish. Below is a charted analysis of the usage of Giotto and associated names.
Giotto-Florentine painter who gave up the stiff Byzantine style and developed a more naturalistic style; considered the greatest Italian painter prior to the Renaissance (1267-1337). Giotto di Bondone. And I have seen the aged Giotto, and he in turn was pupil to Cimabue, before whom there was no art in Italy, for the Greeks were brought to paint the chapel of the Gondi at Florence.
Click on a place to view Giotto immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Giotto families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Giotto birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
[ syll. giot-to, gi-o- tto ] The baby boy name Giotto is pronounced JHiyowT-ow †. Giotto's language of origin is Germanic and it is used mainly in the Italian language. Giotto is a variant form of the English and German Geoffrey in the Italian language. Giotto is also a variant form of the English and German Godfrey. Giotto is also a variant form of the English Jeffrey in the Italian language. Giotto is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names. 
Possibly from Ambrogiotto, a diminutive of AMBROGIO. This name was borne by Giotto di Bondone (1267-1337), an Italian painter and architect. 
Meaning of Giotto. German name. In German, the name Giotto means-gods peace.The name Giotto originated as an German name. The name Giotto is most often used as a boy name or male name. German Name Meaning-gods peace. Origin-Germany
Giotto /giot-to/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old German origin, and the name Giotto means God-peace. Giotto is an alternate form of Godfrey (Old German): a saint's name. Adoption of this boy name reached its apex during the years 1880-1889 (usage of 0.33%) and has become significantly lower since, with Godfrey becoming less stylish. Below is a charted analysis of the usage of Giotto and associated names.
Giotto di Bondone (1266/7 – January 8, 1337), known as Giotto (. [ˈdʒɔtto]), was an Italian painter and architect from Florence in the late Middle Ages. It is regarded as one of the supreme masterpieces of the Early Renaissance. That Giotto painted the Arena Chapel and that he was chosen by the Comune of Florence in 1334 to design the new campanile (bell tower) of the Florence Cathedral are among the few certainties of his biography.