Sear the rib roast (prime rib) for 15 minutes at the higher oven temperature (450 degrees F.), then turn the oven to the lower temperature (325 degrees F.) for the rest of the cooking time. Every 1/2 hour, baste the cut ends of the roast with the fat accumulated in the roasting pan. Do Not Cover the roast. Prime Rib Roast (standing rib roast), at room temperature (very important) 2 tablespoons butter, room temperature. Preparation: Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Pat the room-temperature standing rib roast (prime rib roast) dry with paper towels or napkins.
3. Place the roast in the oven and cook for 15 minutes, undisturbed. Turn the heat down to 350°F and continue to roast for about 1 hour; check in several places with a meat thermometer. 1 cup red wine, stock, store-bought broth, or water. 1. Bring the meat to room temperature by removing it from the refrigerator at least an hour before cooking, preferably two. Preheat the oven to 450°F. 2. Place the meat, bone side down, in a large roasting pan. Season it with salt and pepper. If you like garlic, peel the cloves and cut them into tiny slivers; use a boning or paring knife to poke small holes in the meat and insert the garlic into them
Directions. Allow roast to stand at room temperature for at least 1 hour. Preheat the oven to 375 degree F. Rub roast with House Seasoning; place roast on a rack in the pan with the rib side down and the fatty side up. Roast for 1 hour. Turn off oven. 
1 While the roast is resting prepare the au jus; place the roasting pan on top of the stove over high heat. 2  Add in the wine; cook for 8-10 minutes, stirring and scraping any brown bits. 3  Add in the beef stock; cook and reduce the juice by half (this might take about 20 minutes). 4  Add salt and pepper to taste. 1 Set oven to 450°F and allow the oven to preheat for a minimum of 15 minutes. 2  Season the roast with only a small amount of salt but lots of fresh ground black pepper pepper (that's all nothing else but a little salt and fresh ground black pepper, using any other spices will take away the flavor from the prime rib!).
4 Place the roast fat side up and rib bones down in a roasting pan. Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the roast, making sure that the thermometer isn't touching a bone. 5 After browning the roast at a 500°F temperature in the oven for 15 minutes, reduce the oven temperature to 325°F. 
Remove the container to a counter and rest for 1 to 2 hours, or until rib roast reaches room temperature. Preheat oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit. Fit a roasting pan with a roasting rack. Place roast on rack, fat side up, and cook in oven for 20 minutes. Without removing the roast, drop oven temperature to 325 degrees F and cook for an additional 60 minutes, or until internal temperature reaches 125 degrees F for a medium-rare finished roast. Remove roast from pan to a cutting board. 1 If using a cooking bag to cook your prime rib, first sear all sides of the roast in a very hot pan with 2 tablespoons olive oil. 2  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F, as you will not need the initial higher heat for browning.
Preparation. Put oven rack in lower third of oven and preheat oven to 450°F. Put beef, fat side up, in a small roasting pan and sprinkle all over with salt and pepper. Stir together flour and dry mustard, then pat onto top and sides of roast to form a thick coating. Roast beef 20 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 350°F and roast until thermometer inserted into center of meat registers 115°F, about 1 1/4 hours more. Transfer beef to a cutting board and let stand, uncovered, 25 minutes.
1 Preheat the oven to the highest temperature possible. 2  Lightly season the roast with salt and spices. 3  Place the roast in a roasting pan, rib side down and fat side up. 4  Insert the food thermometer into the thickest part of the roast. 5  Make sure it doesn't touch the bone. 6  Place the roast in the oven. 1 Take your roast out of the refrigerator a few hours before cooking, so that it will reach room temperature. 2  Preheat the oven to the highest temperature possible. 3  Lightly season the roast with salt and spices. 4