Times are based on a refrigerator set at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Shelf life also depends on the freshness of foods at the time of purchase. 1  Cheese, hard: six months. 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months. 3  Olives and pickles: one month. 4  Fresh eggs (in shell): 3 to 5 weeks. 5  Cheese, soft, unopened: 3 to 4 weeks.
So, basically how long should a refrigerator lasts depends on how you use and take care of your fridge. There are many factors that determine the lifetime of the refrigerator. Your quest starts from the moment you decide to purchase a fridge. Always go for a reputed brand.
Well, if your fridge or freezer isn’t working for that long, it would most probably last for at least 10-12 years (according to Appliance Magazine). And if you take good care of it, it would surely last long in your household. In order to take care of the refrigerator, we should learn how to clean it.
How long should a refrigerator last? This questions is asked so many time, again and again. Most refrigerator keep operational more than 10 years. A survey conducted by the appliance magazine found out that 80% of refrigerators last 8-14 years.
Appliances: Expect most popular appliances to last no more than 15 years: refrigerators (six to 15 years), ranges (10 to 15 years), washers and dryers (eight to 12 years) and dishwashers (eight to 10 years), Angie’s List reports. The NAHB estimates the life span of a microwave to be nine years.
As with many culinary debates, there's not really a cut-and-dried answer. According to the USDA, you should store butter in its wrapper in the fridge and keep butter out only for 10 to 15 minutes before using, but some cooks will use butter after leaving it out for a week. Because butter is made from pasteurized milk, the chances of contamination are low, says cooking blog The Kitchn.
Refrigerator is an indispensable component of your kitchen. You would not be able to remember a single day when you didn’t use your refrigerator. It is also one of those appliances which come in the category of a major purchase due to the high cost factor which means that you buy a refrigerator to last long.