In addition, take a look at how to cure gum disease. Assuming your gums are healthy, you have 2 options to eliminate a gap between teeth. You can either move the teeth to close the gap (or gaps), or else you can leave the teeth where they are and fill in the gaps with something. These are the two ways of eliminating a gap in your front teeth. This is the way your teeth developed, and there is no particular reason why you have a gap in front teeth. Some teeth are missing. Maybe they never grew, maybe you hade them pulled when you were young, and the others didn't line up to completely get rid of the gap. G
1 Gum disease, which results in a loss of bone that supports the teeth, may be prevented by regular brushing and flossing. 2  However, if a gap is forming as a result of gum disease, you need to see your dentist as soon as possible. 3  Self-inflicted behavior. 1 However, if a gap is forming as a result of gum disease, you need to see your dentist as soon as possible. 2  Self-inflicted behavior. 3  These gaps occur when people push their tongue against their front teeth when swallowing or as a result of ‘mouth jewelry’. 4  This pushes teeth forward and makes small gaps bigger.
If the gap is caused by periodontal disease, then periodontal treatment by a dentist or gum specialist (periodontist) is necessary. When gum health is restored, in many cases braces can be used to move the teeth into place. A splint can be used to attach teeth to other teeth and prevent them from moving again. Sometimes some teeth are missing or undersized. This happens most often with the upper lateral incisors (the teeth next to the two upper front teeth). That can cause the upper central incisors to develop a space. A diastema also can be caused by an oversized labial frenum.
In order to close a gap, this will most likely be a brace that is fixed to your teeth for 6 to 12 months. Filling in the gap with something can be done in one of 2 ways. The quick, simple, and cheaper option is to get composite bonding on your teeth. In this procedure, there's no shots and no drilling. This is the way your teeth developed, and there is no particular reason why you have a gap in front teeth. Some teeth are missing. Maybe they never grew, maybe you hade them pulled when you were young, and the others didn't line up to completely get rid of the gap. Gum disease.
A. A. Gum recession is the process in which the margin of the gum tissue that surrounds the teeth wears away, or pulls back, exposing more of the tooth, or the tooth 's root. When gum recession occurs, pockets, or gaps, form between the teeth and gum line, making it easy for disease-causing bacteria to build up. There are a number of factors that can cause your gums to recede, including: Periodontal diseases. These are bacterial gum infections that destroy gum tissue and supporting bone that hold your teeth in place. Gum disease is the main cause of gum recession. Your genes.
Gum disease attacks below the gum line, causing bacteria to create pockets or gaps around the tooth. The gaps that are filled with bacteria break down and decay the supporting tissue of your tooth, which may cause your teeth to start to wiggle and fall out. A Periodontist can perform deep cleaning that can close the gaps in the gum line that occur with gum disease. Calcium and vitamin D prevent osteoporosis or bone loss. Your teeth are made of bone so these vitamins are important. Vitamin C helps prevent infections of the gums. Eat a healthy diet, stop smoking, and brush and floss your teeth to prevent future gum gaps.
A diastema is a space or gap between two teeth. It appears most often between the two upper front teeth. However, gaps can occur between any two teeth. A mismatch between the size of the jaw bones and the size of the teeth can cause either extra space between teeth or crowding of teeth. Sometimes some teeth are missing or undersized. This happens most often with the upper lateral incisors (the teeth next to the two upper front teeth). That can cause the upper central incisors to develop a space. A diastema also can be caused by an oversized labial frenum.
1 Gum disease. 2  Gum disease, which results in a loss of bone that supports the teeth, may be prevented by regular brushing and flossing. 3  However, if a gap is forming as a result of gum disease, you need to see your dentist as soon as possible. 4  Self-inflicted behavior. 1 However, if a gap is forming as a result of gum disease, you need to see your dentist as soon as possible. 2  Self-inflicted behavior. 3  These gaps occur when people push their tongue against their front teeth when swallowing or as a result of ‘mouth jewelry’. 4  This pushes teeth forward and makes small gaps bigger.
Gingivitis. Gingivitis, also generally called gum disease or periodontal disease, describes the events that begin with bacterial growth in your mouth and may end -- if not properly treated -- with tooth loss due to destruction of the tissue that surrounds your teeth. Read more. 
If the gap was caused by a mismatch between the permanent teeth and the jaw size, the spaces can be expected to remain throughout life. Gaps caused by a tongue thrust habit or periodontal disease can get larger with time. Prevention. Not all spaces can be prevented. Sometimes some teeth are missing or undersized. This happens most often with the upper lateral incisors (the teeth next to the two upper front teeth). That can cause the upper central incisors to develop a space. A diastema also can be caused by an oversized labial frenum.