Besides the obvious signs like water leaks or cracked glass, there are other signs to look for that will tell you if your windows need replacing. 1  Drafts: If windows are drafty, they are allowing heat exchange between the inside and outside air. 2  It's like throwing money out the window. When the temperatures outside are comfortable, how well your windows are doing their job may not be readily apparent. But when you have a very hot day coupled with high humidity, you may find your air conditioner working overtime to maintain a cool home.
Windows help define your home’s look and can be an important architectural detail. Replacing windows, especially ones with stained or leaded glass or decorative wood grilles, can lower the house’s value. Of course, replacing your old windows with new ones will lower your energy bills but it will take years to recoup the thousands you'll spend on new windows and installation. Here's some advice from the experts at Consumer Reports on when to repair your windows and when to replace them
Your windows protect your home and your family from extreme temperatures, wind, rain, snow, and ice. When the temperatures outside are comfortable, how well your windows are doing their job may not be readily apparent. But when you have a very hot day coupled with high humidity, you may find your air conditioner working overtime to maintain a cool home.
1 Drafts: If windows are drafty, they are allowing heat exchange between the inside and outside air. 2  It's like throwing money out the window. 3  Single pane windows: Some older homes have single pane windows. When the temperatures outside are comfortable, how well your windows are doing their job may not be readily apparent. But when you have a very hot day coupled with high humidity, you may find your air conditioner working overtime to maintain a cool home.
Save. You can tell if the windows in your home need to be replaced by making a few observations and doing some tests. Sometimes when windows are worn out they don't perform as they once did, and this can increase your utility bills. Windows that need replacing will show some wear and tear. Frost and Condensation. When your windows need replacing they will consistently accumulate frost during the winter months. This is most likely due to an air leak. If the leak is coming from around the base and it cannot be repaired with caulk, your windows need to be replaced.
It is much faster to remove the sashes and work on them in side where you have controlled temperatures (it makes the glazing putty a lot easier to handle). If you have storms they can be used to close the opening while the sashes are removed. Otherwise some plywood can be used to close the opening. See if your library has a copy of Terry Meany's book Working Windows or buy a copy. It's available on Amazon for under $15.00 In my copy (2nd edition-it has since been updated) he deals with this very situation on page 106-107. One of the many things I love about my house's original windows is that they are repairable.
1 If frames are worn or damaged, replace the entire window unit. 2  When planning a window replacement project, it's important to approach the steps in your project in the right sequence. 3  Measure your windows first, then choose, purchase and receive your replacement windows. 1 If your window frames are in excellent condition, the easiest way to replace is to remove old sashes and put a replacement window into the old frame. 2  This allows the existing trim to remain in place. 3 
skydawggy. Never do anything to your home if the standard is that some how it's not worth doing unless you get you money back. Don't replace the roof, kitchen counter-tops, carpeting or appliances. Don't paint, landscape, build a deck, replace a door or even wash the windows. None of these things will give you your money back. See if your library has a copy of Terry Meany's book Working Windows or buy a copy. It's available on Amazon for under $15.00 In my copy (2nd edition-it has since been updated) he deals with this very situation on page 106-107. One of the many things I love about my house's original windows is that they are repairable.