All plants undergo a life cycle that takes them through both haploid and diploid generations. The multicellular diploid plant structure is called the sporophyte, which produces spores through meiotic (asexual) division. The multicellular haploid plant structure is called the gametophyte, which is formed from the spore and give rise to the haploid gametes. In bryophytes (mosses and liverworts), the dominant generation is haploid, so that the gametophyte comprises what we think of as the main plant. The opposite is true for tracheophytes (vascular plants), in which the diploid generation is dominant and the sporophyte comprise
Answers. Best Answer: Yes, the gametophyte, which is haploid, produces gametes simply by mitosis. After fertilization, the diploid sporophyte is produced. The sporophyte produces haploid spores, by meiosis. These spores undergo mitosis and create the sporophyte generation forming a cycle
The haploid stage, in which a multicellular haploid gametophyte develops from a spore and produces haploid gametes, is the dominant stage in the bryophyte life cycle. The mature gametophyte produces both male and female gametes, which join to form a diploid zygote. The zygote develops into the diploid sporophyte, which extends from the gametophyte and produces haploid spores through meiosis. Once the spores germinate, they produce new gametophyte plants and the cycle continues. In bryophytes (mosses and liverworts), the dominant generation is haploid, so that the gametophyte comprises what we think of as the main plant. The opposite is true for tracheophytes (vascular plants), in which the diploid generation is dominant and the sporophyte comprise
Much like the spores went through mitosis in order to become the gametophyte, the zygote will go through asexual reproduction to create a multicellular structure. The zygote creates identical cells that are all diploid, making the sporophyte. The sporophyte is the multicellular diploid stage. Remember that cells containing only one copy of each chromosome are called haploid. The sporophyte will go through meiosis in order to produce spores. Spores are the first part of the haploid stage that we looked at, completing the life cycle.
The sporophyte is the multicellular diploid stage of the plant life cycle. This structure will eventually create the haploid spores by the process of meiosis. Meiosis-also called sexual reproduction-creates four cells that are genetically different and haploid. Remember that cells containing only one copy of each chromosome are called haploid. The sporophyte will go through meiosis in order to produce spores. Spores are the first part of the haploid stage that we looked at, completing the
Young sporophytes of the common moss Tortula muralis. In mosses, the gametophyte is the dominant generation, while the sporophytes consist of sporangium-bearing stalks growing from the tips of the gametophytes. A sporophyte (/spɔːroʊˌfaɪt/) is the diploid multicellular stage in the life cycle of a plant or alga. In flowering plants the gametophytes are very reduced in size, and are represented by the pollen and the embryo sac. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half. The resulting meiospores develop into a gametophyte
Gametophyte stage occurs when cells in reproductive organs undergo meiosis and produce haploid cells. Sporophyte stage is the joining of haploid sex cells. These two stages he … lp in the production of a new plant. + 5 others found this useful. Reproduction in mosses takes a different form to that in vascular plants, such as trees and shrubs, where female flowers are fertilised by pollen from male flowers and grow on … to produce seeds, often encased in fruits. Mosses utilise a similar method to ferns, and this consists of alternating generations of two forms.
A sporophyte is a plant that produces spores (asexual reproduction) and a gametophyte is a plant that produces gametes (sexual reproduction). The word gametes refers to sperm and eggs. 
The generalized cycle of the Alternation of Generations: 1  gametophyte-haploid plant that produces gametes via mitosis. 2  gamete-haploid ovum (female) or sperm (male). 3  gametangium-generic term for a multicellular plant sex organ. 4  It can be either... 5  archegonium-the female sex organ (analogous to the animal ovary). 