Knowledge center. Motor neuron disease (MND) is a serious and incurable form of progressive neurodegeneration-over time the nerves in the spine and brain progressively lose function. In the case of motor neuron disease, motor neurons-types of nerve cells-are affected.
The motor neuron diseases (MNDs) are a group of progressive neurological disorders that destroy motor neurons, the cells that control essential voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing.
1 Motor Neurone Disease (MND) is the name given to a group of diseases in which the nerve cells (neurons) that control the muscles degenerate and die. 2  MND is a slowly progressive disease in that it gets steadily worse over time.
Motor Neuron Diseases (MND) are a group of neurological disorders that affect motor neurons in adults and in children. Motor neurons are specific types of cells that control voluntary muscle activities such as speaking, walking, and breathing.
Common symptoms are spinal muscular atrophy, progressive bulbar palsy (PBP), primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), progressive muscular atrophy (PMA), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Post-polio syndrome is a motor neuron disease that can develop years after the individual was infected with polio virus.
Description. 1  Motor Neurone Disease (MND) is the name given to a group of diseases in which the nerve cells (neurons) that control the muscles degenerate and die. 2  MND is a slowly progressive disease in that it gets steadily worse over time.
Diagnosis. Because many symptoms of motor neuron disease are similar to other conditions and diseases, the diagnosis process can be somewhat complicated. If a person is suspected to have motor neuron disease, it s important to immediately seek advices from doctors and other qualified medical professionals.
Eventually, a person with motor neurone disease may be unable to move. Communicating, swallowing and breathing may also become very difficult. In up to 15% of cases, motor neurone disease is associated with a type of dementia that can affect personality and behaviour.