The largest artery in the body. It carries oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to vessels that reach the re... Atria. The chambers of the heart, to which the blood returns from the circulation.... Blood. A tissue with red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, and other substances suspended in fluid called p...
The three types of blood vessels are the arteries, veins, and capillaries. *Arteries are the vessels that carry blood away from your heart to the different parts of your body *Veins carries non-oxygenated blood to the heart *Capillary tubes with very thin walls which join arteries to veins.
Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Pulmonary arteries transport blood that has a low oxygen content from the right ventricle to the lungs. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues.
Aorta: largest blood vessel in body; carries oxygenated blood from left ventricle to all tissues in the body. Arteries: blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart; lined with smooth muscle that helps pump blood. Bladder: stores urine from the kidneys; lined with smooth muscle. Capillaries: smallest blood vessels lying between arteries and veins; site of nutrient and waste diffusion in to body tissues.
The pulmonary arteries are unique in that unlike most arteries which carry oxygenated blood to other parts of the body, the pulmonary arteries carry de-oxygenated blood to the lungs. After picking up oxygen, the oxygen rich blood is returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. 1 of 1. 1.
Arteries carry blood (with oxygen) from your heart out to your body, while veins carry blood (without oxygen) from your body to your heart. Arteries are strong, flexible blood vessels that are able to expand (get bigger) and contract (get smaller).
The arteries are major blood vessels connected to your heart. 1  The pulmonary artery carries blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs to pick up a fresh supply of oxygen. 2  The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the left side of the heart to the body.