Thankfully, discarding a phone safely can be done with a minimum of fuss. Here's what you need to do: Remove any memory cards. If your old phone has a removable memory card slot (typically holding either an SD or Micro SD card), remove the card and keep it. You don't need to include it in the sale of the old phone, and keeping it prevents you from having to securely wipe the data on it. Remove the SIM card. The SIM card -- which gives your phone its number and identity on the network -- can also store data like contacts and call logs.
There is banking information, passwords, personal photos, and email access info. It is critical that you clear all of this information before donating, recycling, reselling, or disposing of your cell phone. But it isn’t easy to clear all of the sensitive information from your phone. You often have to delete photos in one place, web-browsing history in another, and phone numbers from another. Further complicating matters — each phone is different. But you can find out how to delete personal information from your specific phone at the ReCellular Cell Phone Data Eraser website, which has instructions on how to erase data from dozens of cell phone models, made by more than 20 manufacturers.
1 Go to the Wireless Recycling Cell Phone Data Eraser Page. 2  Follow the instructions to download a wiping utility for your phone. 3  You may then choose to follow the last instruction (dropping it off at their recycling center) or to trade it in to a mobile service provider. 1 If you do this, all information on your phone will be destroyed. 2  You should back it up somewhere first. 3  If you are staying with the same service provider, you should back up all your contacts to the SIM card (see your phone’s manual), then remove the card prior to wiping the phone.
Still, certain data on your phone, including personal contacts, photos and Web search terms, may be recoverable with relatively simple and inexpensive software programs. It s a good idea to remove personal information before you dispose of your phone. Permanent data deletion usually requires several steps. 1  Remove the memory or subscriber identity module (SIM) card from the phone. 
How To Safely Dispose of Your Cell Phone. Many people never think of this, but your cell phone may contain a wealth of information about your friends, family and associates. You may have: 1  Addresses and numbers for work, home and mobile. 1 If you do this, all information on your phone will be destroyed. 2  You should back it up somewhere first. 3  If you are staying with the same service provider, you should back up all your contacts to the SIM card (see your phone’s manual), then remove the card prior to wiping the phone.
If you are unsure of how to get rid of an old phone, this article will guide you through the process. Before actually disposing of your phone, it is important to remove your information from it, as phones tend to allow access to sensitive, personal information. The easiest way to rid your phone of this information is to perform a factory reset. If your phone is in good condition and functions well, you may wish to donate it. You may donate your phone to someone less fortunate through a charity organization that accepts phones, or you may donate it to an organization that recycles cell phones and uses the resulting funds to benefit people in need.
To safely give up your phone, you should wipe it first. WirelessRecycling.com has a nice service to allow you to do this. 1  Go to the Wireless Recycling Cell Phone Data Eraser Page. 2  Follow the instructions to download a wiping utility for your phone. 1 If you do this, all information on your phone will be destroyed. 2  You should back it up somewhere first. 3  If you are staying with the same service provider, you should back up all your contacts to the SIM card (see your phone’s manual), then remove the card prior to wiping the phone.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Whether buying a new phone and recycling that old cell phone, selling a cell phone or giving it away, you'll want to delete all of your personal data, contacts, passwords, pins, credit card information and other information before you hand the phone over to a new owner. Instructions. Back up your data prior to deleting the information by using your cell phone network's backup service, through data manager software included with your cell phone or through a third-party data manager such as BitPim. Eject your cell phone's microSD card. Remove the SIM card, if you have a GSM phone. Most manufacturers place the SIM card near the battery and require that you remove the back cover to access the card. Other cell phones, such as the iPhone, require that you eject the card with a paper clip
4. Remove SIM or SD Card. Remove or delete the data on your SIM or SD card located in your phone (if you have one). A lot of data, including photos, can remain stored on the SIM card even after you've done a factory reset. Destroy the SIM card or see if it's compatible with your new device. Image: Flickr, mroach. 