FOB (Free On Board) is a term in United States and international commercial law specifying at what point the seller transfers ownership of the goods to the buyer. International shipments typically use FOB as defined by the Incoterms standards, where it always stands for free on board. Domestic shipments within the United States or Canada often use a different meaning, specific to North America, which is inconsistent with the Incoterms standards.
Best Answer: Term indicating delivery will be made on board or into a carrier by the shipper without charge. The abbreviation FOB is followed by a shipping point or destination. The invoice price includes delivery at seller's expense and seller's risk to the specified location. 
Definition. The initials FOB stand for either free on board or freight on board.. Either way, it has the same definition. When using the term in business, buyers and sellers attach FOB to the beginning of a location to show the point at which freight changes hands from seller to buyer. For instance, a buyer who purchases freight FOB Columbus receives that freight from the seller in Columbus.
For domestic shipments, FOB can stand for either free on board or freight on board.. Either way, the meaning is the same. FOB is a freight term that indicates when the ownership of goods being shipped transfers to the buyer and who pays the shipment freight. FOB stands for free on board or freight on board.. The shipping terms that follow FOB dictate who pays for shipping and when the ownership of goods is transferred. The FOB shipping terms have both legal and accounting implications for the buyer and seller. 1  What Does FOB Mean in Accounting? 2  What Does ARO Mean for the Terms of a Payment?
The freight on board actual means is free on board or cargo on board. In simple terms, the FOB is a term used to indicate where the product property transferred from the seller to the buyer. Freight on board provides details about who (buyer or seller) will pay for the cost of shipping goods. The definition of FOB varies from region to region. Identification. The destination of freight on board specifies that the charges of freight are given by seller and responsible for goods in transit. The buyer is responsible for the goods on entrance at the destination. Freight on board destination prepaid and additional is the same, unless the seller is shipping free
FOB stands for Freight-on-board. FOB shipping point means a sale happens when the merchandise leaves the seller's shipping facility. In contract, FOB...... FOB stands for free on board or freight on board.. The shipping terms that follow FOB dictate who pays for shipping and when the ownership of goods is transferred. The FOB shipping terms have both legal and accounting implications for the buyer and seller. 1  What Does FOB Mean in Accounting? 2  What Does ARO Mean for the Terms of a Payment?
What is a FOB (Freight on Board). FOB is an acronym for Freight on Board. In North America, Freight on Board is a term that is commonly used when someone is shipping goods within the United States. It is a way to indicate who will pay loading and transportation costs. It is a contractual term and it indicates several things. 
Freight on board port of origin shows that the freight is paid by the seller – the buyer is responsible for the load during transport. Dock and Delivery FOB shipping to suggest that the combined traffic in the price of goods. The buyer is responsible to take liability at the same time when the goods are received. Freight on board provides details about who (buyer or seller) will pay for the cost of shipping goods. The definition of FOB varies from region to region.
Definition: Free On Board (FOB) indicates that the supplier pays the shipping costs that usually also include the insurance costs from the point of production to a specified destination, at which point the buyer takes responsibility. Description: The FOB is an important part in a purchase contract. 