Bernoulli's principle. the statement that an increase in the speed of a fluid produces a decrease in pressure and a decrease in the speed produces an increase in pressure. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. An airplane flies based on Bernoulli's principle. An airplane flies based on Bernoulli's principle. The definition of Bernoulli's principle is the concept that an increase in a liquid's speed creates a pressure decrease and a decrease in a liquid's speed creates a pressure increase.
In fluid dynamics, Bernoulli's principle states that for an inviscid flow, an increase in the speed of the fluid occurs simultaneously with a decrease in pressure or a decrease in the fluid's potential energy. Bernoulli's principle states the faster a fluid (air in this case) moves over the wing, the lower the pressure on that surface. So as air moves faster over the wings, the pressure on the tops of the wings is decreased. At the same time air is not moving as fast on the underside or bottom of the wing as on the top.
Called Bernoulli's principle, this is the idea that where the speed of a fluid increases, the pressure in the fluid decreases. A fluid's speed will increase as it travels through narrower spaces and decrease as it travels through wider spaces. 
Bernoulli's principle. n. 1. (General Physics) physics the principle that in a liquid flowing through a pipe the pressure difference that accelerates the flow when the bore changes is equal to the product of half the density times the change of the square of the speed, provided friction is negligible. 
bernoulli's principle-Computer Definition. An increase in the velocity of a fluid that is accompanied by a decrease of pressure. Swiss scientist, Daniel Bernoulli (1700-1782), demonstrated that, in most cases, the pressure in a liquid or gas decreases as the liquid or gas moves faster. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. An airplane flies based on Bernoulli's principle. An airplane flies based on Bernoulli's principle. The definition of Bernoulli's principle is the concept that an increase in a liquid's speed creates a pressure decrease and a decrease in a liquid's speed creates a pressure increase.
Definition of BERNOULLI'S PRINCIPLE. : a principle in hydrodynamics: the pressure in a stream of fluid is reduced as the speed of the flow is increased. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of BERNOULLI'S PRINCIPLE. : a principle in hydrodynamics: the pressure in a stream of fluid is reduced as the speed of flow is increased. Ber·noul·li's principle also Bernoulli principle. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about Bernoulli's principle.
Bernoulli's principle, An increase in the velocity of a fluid that is accompanied by a decrease of pressure. Swiss scientist, Daniel Bernoulli (1700-1782), demonstrated that, in most cases, the pressure in a liquid or gas decreases as the liquid or gas moves faster. This explains in part why a wing lifts an airplane.
Bernoulli's principle. n. 1. (General Physics) physics the principle that in a liquid flowing through a pipe the pressure difference that accelerates the flow when the bore changes is equal to the product of half the density times the change of the square of the speed, provided friction is negligible.