A good way for dogs to get the full nutrients of the vegetables is to break them down in a pureed form. No matter how you prepare the vegetables for your dogs, do not use salt. Dogs don’t always care for it and it is not good for dogs with heart conditions.
Despite the belief that dogs are strictly carnivorous, they're actually omnivores that eat a wide variety of plant material -- even in the wild. Like humans, dogs require the nutrients found in a host of vegetables and fruits; however, a few fruits and veggies are poisonous to your pooch.
There are many ways to serve vegetables for your dogs other than raw, such as cooked, steamed, baked, roasted, grilled or dehydrated. Dogs do enjoy vegetables raw as a yummy treat; however, they have short digestive systems and do not get as many nutrients out of eating vegetables raw as we humans.
Just as fruits and vegetables are considered healthy foods for humans, they can also help prolong a dog's life. Orange, red and yellow fruits and vegetables are best for dogs because they are often nutrient-dense [source: Donomor ]. Many fruits and vegetables also contain antioxidants that reduce the risk of cancer. But not all fruits and vegetables are healthy for your dog. Avoid serving your dog dyed, waxed, or genetically engineered foods; just as with humans, organic foods are best.
The following provides a partial list of fruits and vegetables that are good for dogs. You can use fresh, canned or frozen fruit. If you are going to give your dog canned fruit, make sure it is packed in juice not syrup-sugar is not good for dogs. You can use fresh, canned, frozen and/or cooked veggies.
Keep your dog's veggie treats small and talk to your vet about adjusting your dog's food intake if you are supplementing your dog's diet with vegetables. Vegetables may be low in calories, but they are not zero calories. Also make sure your dog does not choke on the vegetable in the excitement of eating them.
Fruits and vegetables can be great sources of the following important nutrients. Click the links to see a list of fruits & veggies that carry the label of high and good sources for these nutrients. 1  Calcium: Calcium is essential for healthy bones and teeth.
Calcium, fiber, potassium and selenium are other nutrients essential for wellness, growth, development, cell repair and disease prevention. Colorful foods, such as fruits and vegetables, are often the richest sources of nutrients. Taking a multivitamin once daily is a good way to supplement your diet.