Use Outlook Anywhere to connect to your Exchange server without VPN. This feature requires you to use a Microsoft Exchange Server 2003 or Exchange Server 2007 account. Most home and personal accounts do not use Microsoft Exchange.
Open port 25 (SMTP) and port 80, 443 (SSL) only from the Internet to your Exchange server. you should not be using OWA without SSL, http://www.msexchange.org/tutorials/Securing-Exchange-Server-2003-Outlook-Web-Access-Chapter5.html. http://www.petri.co.il/configure_ssl_on_owa.htm. this is nice to read as well. 
To enable NNTP over SSL, you must install a Computer certificate on the Exchange 2000 Server. Protocol: HTTP. 1  Port (TCP/UDP): 80 (TCP). 2  Description: Hyper-Text Transfer Protocol is the protocol used primarily by Microsoft Outlook Web Access (OWA), but also enables some administrative actions in Exchange System Manager. Protocol: IMAP4. 1  Port (TCP/UDP): 143 (TCP). 2  Description: Internet Message Access Protocol version 4, may be used by “standards-based” clients such as Microsoft Outlook Express or Netscape Communicator to access the e-mail server.
RPC Client Access Service (TCP/60000) This is the virtual service associated with the RPC Client access service that Outlook MAPI clients connect to in Exchange 2010. It’s best practice to use static RPC ports when the Exchange 2010 solution includes a load balancer solution. In this setup, the static port used for the RPC CA service is port “60000”. Microsoft recommends you use a unique port between 59531 and 60554. Exchange Address Book (TCP/60001) This is the virtual service associated with the Exchange Address Book service which is used by Outlook MAPI clients for directory access. As mentioned it’s best practice to use static RPC ports when the Exchange 2010 solution includes a load balancer solution. 
What ports does Exchange MAPI use. up vote 1 down vote favorite. What ports does Exchange MAPI/CDO use to connect to the Client Access Server from the Mailbox Server. I have a piece of software installed on a Mailbox server that uses Exchange MAPI (RDO to be specific, which uses Exchange MAPI). MAPI actually uses RPC which uses a dynamically assigned port number. Here's a blog posting that will help you make that port number static: http://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/configuring-static-rpc-ports-on-an-exchange-2010-client-access-server.aspx. share | improve this answer.
If SSL authentication is used, however, the port on which the Exchange Server computer listens is TCP port 993. Router and firewall setups should therefore take into consideration the access to TCP port 143 or TCP port 993 when this protocol is a supported feature for messaging. For the LDAP client to connect to the Exchange Server computer, the ports that need to be configured on the firewall are based purely on the authentication method in use. With Basic authentication, the Exchange Server computer listens on port 389.
When POP3 clients send messages, the Exchange Server computer is communicating with an SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) host. This requires access to TCP port 25. The Internet Mail Connector and the Internet Mail Service use TCP port 25 for inbound SMTP messages as defined by RFC-821. For the LDAP client to connect to the Exchange Server computer, the ports that need to be configured on the firewall are based purely on the authentication method in use. With Basic authentication, the Exchange Server computer listens on port 389.
When outlook 2003 is setup with an Exchange 2003 server, within an internal network, and with 'Microsoft Exchange Server' as the 'Server Type', what port(s) are used? There is an initial communication from the client (on an ephemeral port) to the server's TCP port 135. The server's RPC endpoint mapper establishes a random port on the server and sends that to the client and then the client connects to that random port.