Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Dishwasher Installation project. For a basic 1 dishwasher project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Dishwasher ranges between $568.77 - $1,108.79 per dishwasher. To estimate costs for your project: 1
Thread Details. In this week, Bestbuy is having a promotion of free dishwasher installation ($399 dishwasher or up). All stores (HD, Lowes, Sears, BB) normally charge $185+ for the service. I bought a Whirlpool DU1148X and the total cost is $406 including everything. I cancelled a simialr order from Sears which was $580 total. If your dishwasher is $499 or up, it is free delivery. However this is a deal I've been waiting for. Look for the open box dishwashers for the Slickdeal. In this week, Bestbuy is having a promotion of free dishwasher installation ($399 dishwasher or up). All stores (HD, Lowes, Sears, BB) normally charge $185+ for the service.
Lowe's Dishwasher Install. Choose a built-in dishwasher, drawer dishwasher or portable dishwasher from Lowe’s for your kitchen. Consider an ENERGY STAR® qualified dishwasher to conserve energy and save money. Check out our Dishwasher Buying Guide to find a dishwasher for your needs.
The cost of installing a new dishwasher in your kitchen will depend on several factors. The cost of the dishwasher, set up, kitchen modifications to accommodate the dishwasher and final installation might range from $450 to $2,000 or more, depending on the amount of work and the specific dishwasher. A dishwasher can range in cost from $400 to $1,500 or more, depending on numerous factors and considerations. This is the base cost of the appliance. The transportation cost will differ depending on the company who sells the
Get Inspired. Browse dishwashers on Lowes.com or at your local Lowe's store. Work with a Lowe's sales associate to plan your install project and select the right dishwasher for your home and budget. 2. Get Started. Call 1-866-678-2761 or visit your local Lowe's store to discuss your dishwasher needs with a Lowe’s customer service associate. Choose a built-in dishwasher, drawer dishwasher or portable dishwasher from Lowe’s for your kitchen. Consider an ENERGY STAR® qualified dishwasher to conserve energy and save money. Check out our Dishwasher Buying Guide to find a dishwasher for your needs.
Appliance Delivery & Installation. Free standard local delivery on appliances $396 or more. Free delivery valid on a single item purchase with value of $396 or more or valid on a combined ticket purchase with a value of $396 or more that includes: HDPP, parts, refrigeration, laundry, cooking or dishwashers. The Home Depot makes it easy to upgrade your appliances with our free and comprehensive Appliance Delivery and Installation service on Appliance Purchases $396 or more. We'll handle everything from uncrating to setup and connection of your new freestanding appliances.
There’s almost nothing more controversial than the cost* of installing a dishwasher. One installation may cost $400 or more while another might cost under $100. Yet another homeowner may boast that they installed their dishwasher alone in under an hour at no cost.
The cost of the dishwasher will often include the price of the dishwasher, transportation and installation. Usually, the dishwasher is the highest portion of the cost. A dishwasher can range in cost from $400 to $1,500 or more, depending on numerous factors and considerations. This is the base cost of the appliance. The transportation cost will differ depending on the company who sells the dishwasher.
Quotes for dishwasher installation can vary widely. Generally, it should cost about $150 for a simple installation and up to $450 or perhaps more if additional parts and labour are needed, such as additional or replacement taps. One installation may cost $400 or more while another might cost under $100. Yet another homeowner may boast that they installed their dishwasher alone in under an hour at no cost.