eyrie. n. 1. (Zoology) the nest of an eagle or other bird of prey, built in a high inaccessible place. 2. (Zoology) the brood of a bird of prey, esp an eagle. The Valley of the Moon by London, Jack View in context. It had occurred to her to look once more into the queer gaunt room which had been Clare's den, or rather eyrie, for so long, and climbing the ladder she stood at the open door of the apartment, regarding and pondering.
noun. An eagle's eyrie. An eagle's eyrie. The definition of an eyrie, also spelled aerie, is a lofty nest of a bird of prey. An eagle's nest up in a high tree is an example of an eyrie.
eyrie noun [C] (ROOM/APARTMENT). › a ​room or ​apartment that is high up in a ​building: I ​interviewed the ​chairman of the ​company in his seventh-floor eyrie. (Definition of eyrie from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
eyrie. n. 1. (Zoology) the nest of an eagle or other bird of prey, built in a high inaccessible place. 2. (Zoology) the brood of a bird of prey, esp an eagle. 3. any high isolated position or place. 
eyrie noun [C] (ROOM/APARTMENT). › a ​room or ​apartment that is high up in a ​building: I ​interviewed the ​chairman of the ​company in his seventh-floor eyrie. (Definition of eyrie from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
Eyrie may refer to: 1  The nest of a hawk, eagle, falcon or other bird of prey (variant of aerie). 2  The Eyrie Vineyards, an American winery in Oregon. 3  Eyrie Bay, a bay in Antarctica. 
A large nest of an eagle or other bird of prey, built high in a tree or on a cliff. Example sentences. 1  Bald Eagles build large stick nests called eyries in tall trees or on cliffs. 2  It dens down in rocky cairns, under tree roots, sometimes even in the disused eyries of a golden eagle. 3  Similarly, the police have three hundred and sixty degree visibility over their patch, like eagles in an eyrie. 1 It dens down in rocky cairns, under tree roots, sometimes even in the disused eyries of a golden eagle. 2
eyrie noun [C]. › the ​nest of an ​eagle or other ​large ​bird that ​eats ​meat, usually ​built in a high ​place that cannot be ​easily ​reached. › a ​room or ​apartment that is high up in a ​building: I ​interviewed the ​chairman of the ​company in his seventh-floor eyrie. (Definition of eyrie from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
See also: Images of the Eyrie. The Eyrie is the smallest of the great castles, consisting only of a cluster of seven slim, white towers bunched tightly together. They can hold up to five hundred men. The castle is made of fine white stone. 