In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the second most common form of skin cancer. It’s usually found on areas of the body damaged by UV rays from the sun or tanning beds. Sun-exposed skin includes the head, neck, ears, lips, arms, legs, and hands. SCC is a fairly slow-growing skin cancer.
Treatments for non‐metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin is the second most common skin cancer in people of white origin, most frequently occurring on sun‐exposed areas of the body. People with fair skin and those with certain genetic conditions or an impaired immune system are at greater risk of developing SCC of the skin. Melanoma is the rarest form of skin cancer. It is more likely to invade nearby tissues and spread to other parts of the body. Actinic keratosis is a skin condition that sometimes becomes squamous cell carcinoma.
Squamous cell carcinoma, or SCC, is a cancer of the cells at the bottom of the skin’s outermost layer. The skin is the largest organ in body. Its purposes are to: 1  Act as a barrier to protect the body from injury and keeps out infection. 2  Keeps in necessary fluids and proteins. 
SCC is the second most common type of non-melanoma seen in the skin cancer clinic in Australia (after BCC). Squamous Cell carcinoma is a cancer of keratinocytes which are the cells found in the thin top layer of the skin called the epidermis.
SCC is still sometimes referred to as  epidermoid carcinoma  and  squamous-cell epithelioma , though the use of these terms has decreased. SCC typically initially occurs in the sixth decade of life (the 50s), but is most common in the eighth decade (the 70s). It is twice as prevalent in men as in women. 1 Unlike basal-cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) has a substantial risk of metastasis. 2  Risk of metastasis is higher in SCC arising in scars, on the lower lips or mucosa, and occurring in immunosuppressed patients.
By Yolanda Smith, BPharm. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a health condition involving the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the skin outer squamous cells of the epidermis. It occurs as a result of keratinization of the epidermal cells and has the potential to metastasize to other regions of the body. Skin cancers have a higher incidence than any other type of cancer that continues to rise, despite knowledge and public health campaigns about their prevention. Squamous cell carcinoma is the second most common type of skin cancer, after basal cell carcinoma.
Squamous-cell carcinoma or squamous-cell cancer (SCC or SqCC) is a cancer of a kind of epithelial cell, the squamous cell. These cells are the main part of the epidermis of the skin, and this cancer is one of the major forms of skin cancer. 1 Unlike basal-cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) has a substantial risk of metastasis. 2  Risk of metastasis is higher in SCC arising in scars, on the lower lips or mucosa, and occurring in immunosuppressed patients.
The Second Most Common Form of Skin Cancer. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is an uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells arising in the squamous cells, which compose most of the skin’s upper layers (the epidermis). SCCs often look like scaly red patches, open sores, elevated growths with a central depression, or warts; they may crust or bleed. Skin Cancer Fact. An estimated 700,000 cases of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) are diagnosed each year in the US, and between 3,900 and 8,800 people died from the disease in the US in 2012.