ALUMINIUM This page starts by looking at the extraction of aluminium from its ore, bauxite, including some economic and environmental issues. It finishes by looking at some uses of aluminium. Purifiying the aluminium oxide-the Bayer Process Reaction with sodium hydroxide solution Crushed bauxite is treated with moderately concentrated sodium hydroxide solution. The concentration, temperature and pressure used depend on the source of the bauxite and exactly what form of aluminium oxide it contains.
Summary: Aluminium is extracted from the ground in compounds, it is the purified to alumina (aluminium oxide) in the bayer process, and the metal is finally obtained after electrolysis in a cryolite solution. The full process needs a lot of energy and is quite expensive. The process occurs in two main steps. Firstly the aluminium ore is mixed with the sodium hydroxide in which the oxides of aluminium and silicon will dissolve, but other impurities will not. These impurities can then be removed by filtration.
The bauxite then has to be purified using the Bayer process, whose development changed the course of aluminium's history. The process occurs in two main steps. Firstly the aluminium ore is mixed with the sodium hydroxide in which the oxides of aluminium and silicon will dissolve, but other impurities will not. These impurities can then be removed by filtration.
Conversion of the aluminium oxide into aluminium by electrolysis The aluminium oxide is electrolysed in solution in molten cryolite, Na3AlF6. Cryolite is another aluminium ore, but is rare and expensive, and most is now made chemically. Purifiying the aluminium oxide-the Bayer Process Reaction with sodium hydroxide solution Crushed bauxite is treated with moderately concentrated sodium hydroxide solution. The concentration, temperature and pressure used depend on the source of the bauxite and exactly what form of aluminium oxide it contains.
Extraction of aluminium. Aluminium is the most abundant metal on Earth. Despite this, it is expensive, largely because of the amount of electricity used up in the extraction process. Aluminium ore is called bauxite. The bauxite is purified to yield a white powder, aluminium oxide, from which aluminium can be extracted. The extraction is done by electrolysis. But first the aluminium oxide must be made molten so that electricity can pass through it.
Instead, it is extracted by electrolysis. The ore is first converted into pure aluminium oxide by the Bayer Process, and this is then electrolysed in solution in molten cryolite-another aluminium compound. The aluminium oxide has too high a melting point to electrolyse on its own. Aluminium ore The usual aluminium ore is bauxite. Purifiying the aluminium oxide-the Bayer Process Reaction with sodium hydroxide solution Crushed bauxite is treated with moderately concentrated sodium hydroxide solution. The concentration, temperature and pressure used depend on the source of the bauxite and exactly what form of aluminium oxide it contains.
Aluminum is too reactive chemically to occur in nature as the free metal. Instead, it is found combined in over 270 different minerals. The chief ore of aluminum is bauxite, a mixture of hydrated aluminum oxide (Al. Metallic aluminum was first prepared by Hans Oersted, a Danish chemist, in 1825. He obtained the metal by heating dry aluminum chloride with potassium metal. 
Cryolite is a chemical compound of aluminium, sodium, and calcium fluorides: (Na3AlF6). The aluminium oxide (a white powder) is obtained by refining bauxite in the Bayer process of Karl Bayer. (Previously, the Deville process was the predominant refining technology.) The electrolytic process replaced the Woehler wöhler, process which involved the reduction of anhydrous aluminium chloride with. potassium 
1 The purified bauxite ore of aluminium oxide is continuously fed in. 2  The mineral cryolite is added to lower the melting point and dissolve the ore. 3  So the electrolyte is a mixture of molten aluminium oxide and cryolite minerals. 