The four-petal flowers from these veggies resemble a cross or crucifer, hence the name. Broccoli is probably the best known cruciferous vegetable. Like Brussels sprouts, rapini, cabbage (green), cauliflower and turnips (white), it forms a head.. Others-known as the headless crucifers - include dark green leafy vegetables like kale and collard greens. 1 Broccoli is a good source of potassium. 2  Broccoli and Brussels sprouts are good sources of dietary fiber and rich in magnesium. 3  Broccoli, Brussels sprouts and rapini contain carotenoids such as beta-carotene. 4  Red cabbage and radishes supply anthocyanins.
A large genus of edible plants including the large species Brassica oleracea. Included are cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussel sprout, kale, and collard green, turnip (B. napa), rutabaga (B. napobrassica), rapeseed (B. napus), and mustard (B. alba, B. junica, and B. nigra). 
The noun CRUCIFEROUS VEGETABLE has 1 sense: 1. a vegetable of the mustard family: especially mustard greens; various cabbages; broccoli; cauliflower; brussels sprouts. Familiarity information: CRUCIFEROUS VEGETABLE used as a noun is very rare. Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (cruciferous vegetable is a kind of...): vegetable; veggie (edible seeds or roots or stems or leaves or bulbs or tubers or nonsweet fruits of any of numerous herbaceous plant). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of cruciferous vegetable):
Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (cruciferous vegetable is a kind of...): vegetable; veggie (edible seeds or roots or stems or leaves or bulbs or tubers or nonsweet fruits of any of numerous herbaceous plant). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of cruciferous vegetable):
• CRUCIFEROUS (adjective). The adjective CRUCIFEROUS has 1 sense: 1. of or relating to or belonging to the plant family Cruciferae. Familiarity information: CRUCIFEROUS used as an adjective is very rare. 
1 Broccoli, along with cauliflower and cabbage, belongs to the family of plants known as cruciferous vegetables, which are rich with antioxidants. 2  DNA sequence variations of chalcone synthase and Apetala3 gene promoters from 22 cruciferous plant species were analyzed to identify putative conserved regulatory elements. Example sentences. 1 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: cruciferous (Adjective). Of, or relating to the crucifer plants or products from these plants; of the family Cruciferae, the cabbage family, including cabbage and mustard. cruciferous (Adjective). Bearing a cross. bearing a cross. Cruciferous (adj). of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which have four petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard, radish, turnip, etc. Origin: [L. crux, crucis, cross + -ferous: cf.
Ten of the most common cruciferous vegetables eaten by people, known colloquially as cole crops, are in a single species (Brassica oleracea); they are not distinguished from one another taxonomically, only by horticultural category of cultivar groups. Cruciferous vegetables are one of the dominant food crops worldwide. They are high in vitamin C and soluble fiber and contain multiple nutrients and phytochemicals.
Cruciferous vegetables are vegetables of the family Brassicaceae (also called Cruciferae). These vegetables are widely cultivated, with many genera, species, and cultivars being raised for food production such as cauliflower, cabbage, garden cress, bok choy, broccoli, brussels sprouts and similar green leaf vegetables. Cruciferous vegetables are one of the dominant food crops worldwide. They are high in vitamin C and soluble fiber and contain multiple nutrients and phytochemicals.