If these signs of cardiac arrest are present: 1  Yell for help. 2  Tell someone to call 9-1-1 or your emergency response number and get an AED (if one is available). 3  If you are alone with an adult who has these signs of cardiac arrest, call 9-1-1 and get an AED (if one is available). 4  Check breathing : 1
Cardiac arrest, also known as cardiopulmonary arrest or circulatory arrest, is a sudden stop in effective blood circulation due to the failure of the heart to contract effectively or at all. Medical personnel may refer to an unexpected cardiac arrest as a sudden cardiac arrest (SCA). Unexpected cardiac arrest can lead to death within minutes: this is called sudden cardiac death (SCD). The treatment for cardiac arrest is immediate defibrillation if a shockable rhythm is present, while cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is used to provide circulatory support and/or to induce a shockable rhythm.
A cardiac arrest occurs when your heart suddenly stops beating. The heart functions through electrical pulses, and when those pulses are interrupted it can cause an irregular heartbeat or cardiac arrest. The cause of cardiac arrest is an electrical problem. It does not have anything to do with your arteries’ functions. 
A cardiac arrest is an emergency. If you witness a cardiac arrest, you can increase the person’s chances of survival by phoning 999 immediately and giving CPR. CPR means: Remember-even if you haven't been trained in CPR with rescue breathing, you can still use hands-only CPR. A cardiac arrest happens when your heart stops pumping blood around your body. If someone has suddenly collapsed, is not breathing normally and is unresponsive, they are in cardiac arrest. There is no time to lose.
1 Tell someone to call 9-1-1 or your emergency response number and get an AED (if one is available). 2  If you are alone with an adult who has these signs of cardiac arrest, call 9-1-1 and get an AED (if one is available). 3  Check breathing 4  : If the person isn't breathing or is only gasping, give CPR. 1 Yell for help. 2  Tell someone to call 9-1-1 or your emergency response number and get an AED (if one is available). 3
The most common cause of a cardiac arrest is a life threatening abnormal heart rhythm called ventricular fibrillation (VF). Ventricular fibrillation happens when the electrical activity of your heart becomes so chaotic that the heart stops pumping and quivers or 'fibrillates' instead. There are various causes of VF. A cardiac arrest happens when your heart stops pumping blood around your body. If someone has suddenly collapsed, is not breathing normally and is unresponsive, they are in cardiac arrest. There is no time to lose.
A cardiac arrest is also called a cardiopulmonary arrest or circulatory arrest and indicates a sudden stop in effective and normal blood circulation due to failure of the heart to pump blood. Cardiac arrest is different from myocardial infarction or heart attack but may be caused by a heart attack. When the blood flow to the heart is stopped due to narrow or obstructed coronary arteries, a heart attack occurs. This may lead to a cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest. What happens in cardiac arrest. 1  Once the usual blood circulation stops, oxygen delivery to all vital organs is also stopped. 2  The pulse that is usually seen in the carotid artery in the neck as well in the wrists and ankles is lacking. 3  Cardiac arrest may lead to sudden cardiac death or SCD.
A cardiac arrest is different from (but may be caused by) a myocardial infarction (also known as a heart attack), where blood flow to the muscle of the heart is impaired. It is different from congestive heart failure, where circulation is substandard, but the heart is still pumping sufficient blood to sustain life. Unexpected cardiac arrest can lead to death within minutes: this is called sudden cardiac death (SCD). The treatment for cardiac arrest is immediate defibrillation if a shockable rhythm is present, while cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is used to provide circulatory support and/or to induce a shockable rhythm.
Emergency Treatment. Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) is an emergency. A person having SCA needs to be treated with a defibrillator right away. This device sends an electric shock to the heart. The electric shock can restore a normal rhythm to a heart that's stopped beating. To work well, defibrillation must be done within minutes of SCA. 