The Great Pyramid of Giza (also known as the Pyramid of Khufu or the Pyramid of Cheops) is the oldest and largest of the three pyramids in the Giza Necropolis bordering what is now El Giza, Egypt. It is the oldest of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, and the only one to remain largely intact. It is thought that, at construction, the Great Pyramid was originally 280 Egyptian cubits tall (146.5 metres (480.6 ft)), but with erosion and absence of its pyramidion, its present height is 138.8 metres (455.4 ft).
Located just outside of the outskirts of Cairo on the esplanade known as the Giza Plateau, the Great Pyramids of Giza is the must-see Ancient Egyptian landmark. Known as Khufu's Pyramid, it is the greatest pyramid of the complex: a truly overwhelming sight. 
The first Egyptian pyramid is believed to be the Pyramid of Djoser, it was built in Saqqara around 4650 years ago (2640 BC). Saqqara is a huge ancient burial ground built near the Egyptian city of Memphis. The Great Pyramid of Giza is the oldest and largest of three pyramids in the Giza Necropolis. Enjoy our range of interesting Ancient Egyptian pyramid facts for kids. Learn about the first pyramid built in Egypt, the Great Pyramid of Giza, important burial sites such as Saqqara, what Egyptians put in burial tombs, where the famous mask of Tutankhamun was discovered and much more. Read on and have fun learning about Ancient Egyptian pyramid
The Egyptian pyramids are ancient pyramid-shaped masonry structures located in Egypt. The structure is also the third largest pyramid in Egypt – after the pyramids of Khufu and Khafre at Giza. Also at Dahshur is the pyramid known as the Black Pyramid of Amenemhet III, as well as a number of small, mostly ruined subsidiary pyramids.
The most famous Egyptian pyramids are those found at Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo. Several of the Giza pyramids are counted among the largest structures ever built. The Pyramid of Khufu at Giza is the largest Egyptian pyramid. It is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still in existence. The structure is also the third largest pyramid in Egypt – after the pyramids of Khufu and Khafre at Giza. Also at Dahshur is the pyramid known as the Black Pyramid of Amenemhet III, as well as a number of small, mostly ruined subsidiary pyramids.
The Pyramids of Egypt Built: From about 2700 to 2500 B.C. Location: Giza, Egypt, on west bank of Nile River near Cairo History: The Egyptian Pyramids are the oldest and only surviving member of the ancient wonders. Of the 10 pyramids at Giza, the first three are held in the highest regard. Location: Giza, Egypt, on west bank of Nile River near Cairo.
Back to Site List. Giza is located west and south of modern Cairo, in the vast desert imagined by the ancient Egyptians to be the land of the dead. Guarded by the Great Sphinx, the plateau is dominated by the massive pyramids of Khufu (Gr. Cheops), Khafre (Gr. Chephren), and Menkaure (Gr. Mycerinus), all of whom ruled Egypt during the 4th Dynasty (c. 2500 BC).
Built: From about 2700 to 2500 B.C. Location: Giza, Egypt, on west bank of Nile River near Cairo. History: The Egyptian Pyramids are the oldest and only surviving member of the ancient wonders. Of the 10 pyramids at Giza, the first three are held in the highest regard.
It is believed the pyramid was built as a tomb for Fourth Dynasty Egyptian pharaoh Khufu (often Hellenicised as Cheops) and was constructed over a 20-year period. Khufu's vizier, Hemon, or Hemiunu, is believed by some to be the architect of the Great Pyramid. It is thought that, at construction, the Great Pyramid was originally 280 Egyptian cubits tall (146.5 metres (480.6 ft)), but with erosion and absence of its pyramidion, its present height is 138.8 metres (455.4 ft).