Online divorce application costs. Our fees for helping you apply for a divorce in Australia start from $825 but will vary depending upon your particular circumstances. Please contact us for a personal quote. You can apply for a divorce in Sydney/wider NSW or Canberra/the ACT without having to stress about getting the paperwork perfect. Simply complete and submit your application online, and one of our family lawyers will handle the divorce process on your behalf.
To apply for a Divorce, you must complete an Application for Divorce and file it with the Federal Magistrates Court and pay the Application fee of $800. You can file for Divorce jointly with your spouse or on your own. Once you and your spouse have been separated for more than 12 months, there are few opportunities to oppose a Divorce Application. You can only oppose the Divorce where: 1  There has not been 12 months separation as alleged in the Application; or. 2  The court does not have jurisdiction.
Begin the Divorce Process Online. It is completely wrong that going through the divorce process in Australia will cost a fortune, you have to hire expensive divorce lawyers charging 100’s of dollars per hour. AuDivorce.com is the premier affordable divorce form filling center. 
If you have been married less than 2 years and want to apply for a divorce you must: 1  before filing the Application attend mediation with a court approved family and child mediator to discuss the possibility of reconciliation and then file a certificate completed by the counsellor with your Application. To be able to apply for a Divorce, at the date of filing at least one spouse must be: 1  an Australian citizen; 2  domiciled in Australia; or. 3  resident in Australia for 12 months.
How to Apply for a Divorce in Australia Online. Our online divorce service offers a fast and convenient way to make your divorce application with the help of experienced family lawyers. You can apply for a divorce in Sydney/wider NSW or Canberra/the ACT without having to stress about getting the paperwork perfect. Simply complete and submit your application online, and one of our family lawyers will handle the divorce process on your behalf.
When filing an Application for Divorce, the Court charges a filing fee, which is currently $1,200. This fee is independent of our firm and is charged to every individual applying for a Divorce in Australia. In certain circumstances, you may be eligible for a reduction of this filing fee to $280. The Court requires that both you and your spouse have an Australian mailing address on your Application for Divorce. Solution 1: If you don't have an Australian mailing address, you can use the address of a friend or relative who lives in Australia and arrange for them to forward your mail to your residential address.
You can only apply for divorce in Australia after you have been separated for a period of at least twelve months. If you have been separated, but reconciled for 3 months or more, then the 12 months period starts after the reconciliation. Family law in Australia is no longer fault based. To file an Application you must: 1  prove that the marriage is irretrievably broken, that is, that you have been separated for a period of no less than 12 months. 2  have lived separately for this 12 month period. To be able to apply for a Divorce, at the date of filing at least one spouse must be: 1  an Australian citizen; 2  domiciled in Australia; or. 3  resident in Australia for
Lodging the Divorce Application with the Family Court of Australia involves a fee of $550 (as at December 2010). Reduced application fees are usually available to people who are experiencing hardship. You can apply for a divorce by completing and then lodging a Divorce Application form with the Family Law Court (or Federal Magistrate’s Court) of Australia. This process may be done online and both Courts use the same Divorce Application form.
The filing fee for a divorce application (lodged with the Federal Circuit Court) is $845 (as at 11 August 2015). If you hold a concession card or you cannot afford to pay the fee without financial hardship, you can apply for the fee to be reduced to $280. To apply for a fee reduction you need to fill in either an: 