20 Words related to Hawkeye. 1  iowa. 2  hawkeyes. 3  iowa city. 4  scuba cat. 5  clint barton. 6  avengers. 7  endearment. 8  cat. 9  text. 10  university of iowa. 11  black widow. 12  carissa. 13  cedar rapids. 14  kitty. 15  m*a*s*h. 16  royai. 17  scuba. 18  the shadow. 19  scuba-cat. 20  scuba-kitty. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The state nickname of Iowa is the Hawkeye State. It got this name from a newspaper that was called The Hawk-Eye which was named as a tribute to Chief Black Hawk. Share to: The term Hawkeye originally appeared in the book, The Last of the Mohicans, and was later used in its plural form to describe the people of Iowa.
Hawkeye State. The Hawkeye State is a popular nickname for the state of Iowa. According to the Iowa State web site, Two Iowa promoters from Burlington are believed to have popularized the name. The nickname was given approval by territorial officials in 1838, eight years before Iowa became a state. 
Hawkeye. Hawkeye is a fictional character and comic book superhero who appears in publications by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist Don Heck, the character first appeared as a villain in Tales of Suspense #57 and later joined the Avengers in Avengers #16. He has been a prominent member of the team ever since.
The Hawkeye State is a nickname for the state of Iowa. According to the state's tourism web site, Two Iowa promoters from Burlington are believed to have popularized the name.. The nickname was given approval by territorial officials in 1838, eight years before Iowa became a state. Edwards proposed the nickname Hawk-eyes in 1838 to ...rescue from oblivian [sic] a momento [sic], at least of the name of the old chief, Black Hawk. The University of Iowa's athletic teams are nicknamed the Hawkeyes and feature a mascot named Herky the Hawk.
Definition of HAWKEYE. : a native or resident of Iowa —used as a nickname. ADVERTISEMENT. 
1 Hawkeye is a playable character in Captain America and the Avengers. 2  Hawkeye appears as a support character in Venom/Spider-Man: Separation Anxiety. 3  Hawkeye appears as a playable character in the PSP version of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, voiced by Nolan North. Hawkeye is portrayed by Jeremy Renner in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, a shared fictional universe that is the setting of films produced by Marvel Studios. Renner first made an uncredited cameo appearance in Thor (2011) and later played a larger role in The Avengers (2012) and Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015).
Baby names that sound like Hawkeye include Ha'iku (Hawaiian), Hache-Hi, Hagai, Hagos, Haiko (German), Haiku, Hais, Haiz, Hajey, Haji, Hajie, Hajy, Haki (Swahili), Hako (Scandinavian), Haku (Hawaiian), Haoa (Hawaiian), Hasa (Swahili), Hasso (German), Hassoe, and Hassow. [ 2 syll. haw-ke-ye, ha-wk-eye ] The baby boy name Hawkeye is pronounced as HH AO K AY †. Hawkeye is used mostly in the English language and its language of origin is Old Norse. Hawkeye is a derivative of the English name Hawk. Hawkeye is not regularly used as a baby name for boys