Internet slang originated in the early days of the Internet with some terms predating the Internet. Internet slang is used in chat rooms, social networking services, online games, video games and in the online community. Since 1979, users of communications networks like Usenet created their own shorthand.
Internet slang (Internet shorthand, Cyber-slang, netspeak, or chatspeak) refers to a variety of slang languages used by different people on the Internet. It is difficult to provide a standardized definition of Internet slang due to the constant changes made to its nature. Internet slang is used in chat rooms, social networking services, online games, video games and in the online community. Since 1979, users of communications networks like Usenet created their own shorthand.
BETA is an acronym, abbreviation or slang word that is explained above where the BETA definition is given. All A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Other 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. Other terms relating to 'version': FAUX HAWK. Smaller, Shorter Version of a Mohawk Hairstyle. 
The process of delivering a beta version to the users is called beta release. Beta level software is between 60% and 70% complete, generally includes all features, but may also include known issues and bugs of a less serious variety. 
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Translate Internet Slang, Text Slang, & Acronyms: Enter text slang, internet slang or IM acronyms such as idk, afk, blog, or lol and our dictionary will translate ur netspeak. 
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
The Internet slang dictionary is sorted by letter. Click on a letter above to see the corresponding slang terms and definitions. Internet slang consists of slang and acronyms that users have created as an effort to save keystrokes. Terms have originated from various sources including Bulletin Boards, AIM, Yahoo, IRC, Chat Rooms, Email, Cell Phone Text Messaging, and some even as far back as World War II. 
A beta of less than 1 means that the security will be less volatile than the market. A beta of greater than 1 indicates that the security's price will be more volatile than the market. For example, if a stock's beta is 1.2, it's theoretically 20% more volatile than the market. Many utilities stocks have a beta of less than 1.
DEFINITION of 'Beta'. Beta is a measure of the volatility, or systematic risk, of a security or a portfolio in comparison to the market as a whole. Beta is used in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), a model that calculates the expected return of an asset based on its beta and expected market returns. Also known as beta coefficient.. A beta of greater than 1 indicates that the security's price will be more volatile than the market. For example, if a stock's beta is 1.2, it's theoretically 20% more volatile than the market. Many utilities stocks have a beta of less than 1.