noun. The definition of a phylum is a major category of living organisms, or a group of genetically related language families. 1  An example of a phylum is Mollusca which means an invertebrate animal such as an octopus.
Full Definition of PHYLUM. 1. a: a direct line of descent within a group b: a group that constitutes or has the unity of a phylum; specifically: a primary category in biological taxonomy especially of animals that ranks above the class and below the kingdom — compare division 10. 2.
Definition of PHYLUM for Kids. : a group of related living things (as animals or plants) that ranks above the class and below the kingdom in scientific classification.
List of animal phyla is a list of the major groups of animals usually classified as a phylum. Modern sources have been used: the list is different from that of Linnaeus or Cuvier. A list of this type may be arranged alphabetically; but equally it might be arranged according to evolutionary relationships.
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals.
Instead of Phyla, the Plant Kingdom is split into Divisions. Each Divsion group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some plant Divisions: Magnoliophyta Division: All flowering plants. These plants have leaves, stems, and roots.
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum.
The word phylum (plural: phyla) is a category used to classify marine organisms. In this article, you can learn the definition of phylum, how it is used, and examples of phyla used to categorize marine life.