What is Power Optimisation-its benefits and advantages. Where Sites experience main voltage delivery over 220V phase voltage or 380V line voltage, electrical equipment is overpowered; power is wasted and all electrical equipment suffers premature failure with reduced life expectancy.
Voltage optimisation systems are typically installed in series with the mains electrical supply to a building, allowing all its electrical equipment to benefit from an optimised supply. The energy savings achieved by Voltage Optimisation are an aggregation of the improved efficiency of all equipment across a site in response to the improvements in the power quality problems outlined above.
• Why invest in voltage optimisation? A: Adopting voltage optimisation will reduce your electricity costs by between 15% and 20% and your carbon emissions by the same amount. If your electricity bill is over £160,000 annually the payback will be within 18 months of inception. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Voltage optimization saves energy by using technology that is installed in series with the main electricity supply to systematically optimize and clean the incoming power supply to bring the voltage supplied into a facility in line with what is required. Powerstar is the only patented Voltage Optimization company. Voltage optimization is beneficial when the electricity supply to your site is at a higher voltage level than needed, resulting in excessive energy consumption and high electricity bills. Voltage optimization systems work to optimize the outgoing voltage without compromising the supply.
Voltage optimisation is a term given to the systematic controlled reduction in the voltages received by an energy consumer to reduce energy use, power demand and reactive power demand. The energy savings achieved by Voltage Optimisation are an aggregation of the improved efficiency of all equipment across a site in response to the improvements in the power quality problems outlined above.
While some voltage 'optimisation' devices have a fixed voltage adjustment, others electronically regulate the voltage automatically. The energy savings achieved by Voltage Optimisation are an aggregation of the improved efficiency of all equipment across a site in response to the improvements in the power quality problems outlined above.
Voltage optimisation is an electrical energy saving technique which is mainly installed in series with the mains electricity supply to provide a reduced supply voltage for the site's equipment. The energy savings achieved by Voltage Optimisation are an aggregation of the improved efficiency of all equipment across a site in response to the improvements in the power quality problems outlined above.
Share This. Voltage optimisation is an energy saving technology that is installed in series with the main electricity supply to systematically optimise, regulate and clean the incoming power to bring the voltage supplied into a building in line with what is required by equipment, machinery and appliances. A voltage optimisation system should not be viewed as an off the shelf solution and a site-specific survey should be undertaken, to ensure that the unit to be installed suits the requirements of the business, in order to maximise any benefits and savings. Click here to see Types of Voltage Optimisation.
As a green technology, voltage optimization reduces energy consumption, improves power quality and helps electronics run more efficiently. Voltage Optimization is the proven energy-saving technique of reducing and cleaning the electricity voltage supplied to a site, in order to: 1  reduce power losses by eliminating excessive consumption
Voltage optimisation is beneficial when the electricity supply to a site is at a higher voltage level than needed, resulting in excessive energy consumption and high electricity bills. A voltage optimisation system should not be viewed as an off the shelf solution and a site-specific survey should be undertaken, to ensure that the unit to be installed suits the requirements of the business, in order to maximise any benefits and savings. Click here to see Types of Voltage Optimisation.