By Rosalind Peterson July 18, 2010 NewsWithViews.com. ...Are finding their way to your food table thanks to the Government. Genetically Modified foods and toxic chemicals are finding their way into the food you eat and other products at an alarming rate. 
The pesticide resistance of GMO seeds has led to the excessive use of chemicals like Monsanto’s Roundup, which has increased in use more than 15 times since GMOs were deregulated. It is now found in ground and rain water and air samples and in 93 percent of pregnant women in a recent study. As GMOs become more prevalent in the U.S. (while most developed countries around the world have bans or serious restrictions on genetically modified foods), more research is also being conducted on the human health risks associated with eating GMOs.
Genetically engineered foods have typically been hardwired to withstand increasing doses of crop chemicals. Since the introduction of these foods fifteen years ago, there has been no mandatory testing of these crops, and FDA officials still will not say whether the department supports mandatory testing. And upon learning this, Diana helped launched a legislative initiative in Connecticut that called for the labeling of these ingredients from crops that had been genetically engineered to withstand routine dousing of these
This chapter considers the pressures on the environment and potential risks arising from the use and marketing of chemical substances and the development, production, field testing, and release through placing on the market of living, genetically modified organisms. Technology has provided new materials, methods and processes which have given rise to a whole range of novel industries making use of the ever-increasing number of new compounds in the manufacture of new products. In the service of this need the production of chemicals has increased enormously over the past few decades.
On the other hand, non-GMO corn was found to be free of chlorides, formaldehyde, glyphosate, and other harmful chemicals, while in GMO corn they were identified in dangerously high levels. In non-GMO corn, however, magnesium levels were found to be 46 times higher than in non-GMO corn. Similar variances were observed for calcium, sulfur and manganese as well, with the contents of each being 12.4, 14, and seven times higher, respectively.
The development of a growing number and range of GMOs has opened up significant potential for many useful applications in agriculture and food-processing, pharmaceuticals and diagnostics, environmental clean-up, chemicals production and the development of new materials and energy sources. Technology has provided new materials, methods and processes which have given rise to a whole range of novel industries making use of the ever-increasing number of new compounds in the manufacture of new products. In the service of this need the production of chemicals has increased enormously over the past few decades.
Entitled 2012 Nutritional Analysis: Comparison of GMO Corn versus Non-GMO Corn, the paper reveals not only that GMO corn is greatly lacking in vitamins and minerals compared to non-GMO corn, but also that it is highly toxic and filled with deadly crop chemicals like glyphosate (Roundup). In non-GMO corn, however, magnesium levels were found to be 46 times higher than in non-GMO corn. Similar variances were observed for calcium, sulfur and manganese as well, with the contents of each being 12.4, 14, and seven times higher, respectively.
The bacteria, fungi, viruses, plants, insects, fish and mammals which are designer-made in this way are referred to as genetically modified organisms (GMOs), and can be defined as organisms in which the genetic material has been altered in a way that does not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination. Technology has provided new materials, methods and processes which have given rise to a whole range of novel industries making use of the ever-increasing number of new compounds in the manufacture of new products. In the service of this need the production of chemicals has increased enormously over the past few decades.
The rapid spread of genetically modified organisms throughout the American food system is confounding. Just a hundred years ago junk foods were barely in circulation. Now, they’re not only prolific but also filled with toxic chemicals and those divisive GMOs. As GMOs become more prevalent in the U.S. (while most developed countries around the world have bans or serious restrictions on genetically modified foods), more research is also being conducted on the human health risks associated with eating GMOs.
Many of the companies developing GMOs also make companion herbicides and pesticides like the glyphosate-based Roundup, Monsanto’s top-selling GMO companion pesticide. In fact, Monsanto was in the chemical business long before developing seeds. As GMOs become more prevalent in the U.S. (while most developed countries around the world have bans or serious restrictions on genetically modified foods), more research is also being conducted on the human health risks associated with eating GMOs.