The cost of each type of auto paint will also depend on the metallic qualities, finish, shade and pattern. There are four main types of car paint available – enamel, lacquer, urethane and water-based paints. Each of these types of paints has their own advantages and disadvantages.
Typically, fender benders will usually require the repaint of a bumper, a car door or maybe even a quarter panel. Here is a list of prices you can expect to pay for painting areas commonly damaged in an accident: 1  Bumper painting - $150 to $300. 2  Door repaint - $100 to $500. 3  Painting of a quarter panel - $150 to $750.
To understand why the cost of a particular paint is different from another, one should know the different factors that contribute to the cost of a specific kind of auto paint. There are several different types of car paint available on the market today and each type will have different costs.
Please try again later. http://www.car-scratch-remover.com-Car Paint Repair. See how to easily touch up auto paint that has very deep scratches. By using this advanced technique you can get extremely good looking auto paint touch up results.
For example, a mere 2 ounces of touch up paint can often run between $50 - $300 depending on the make and model of the vehicle the type and the type of paint that is needed.
Minor Paint Repairs. If you need to repair paint damage caused by minor scratches, you could take your vehicle to a paint repair shop and spend about $100 to $200 to have the work done. However, you can usually do the work yourself and save a lot of money.
If you go to an auto body shop, you can expect to spend in the $300-$1,000 dollar range depending on how bad the paint scratch is. The reason auto body scratch repair is so expensive is that they typically re-paint the entire panel where the
Urethane auto paints are a little bit more expensive and can cost up to $70 to $90. The newest type of auto paint that is fast becoming popular is the water-based paint. Considered to be the most versatile, water-based paints are generally used on existing paint jobs, metal and primer.