Key Facts. 1  PMS symptoms usually begin the week before a menstrual period. 2  Common symptoms of PMS: mood swings, breast soreness, bloating, acne, cravings for certain foods, and fatigue. 3  PMS is treated with lifestyle changes and sometimes medication. The most common symptoms include: mood swings, breast soreness, bloating, acne, cravings for certain foods, increased hunger and thirst, and fatigue. Other symptoms may include constipation or diarrhea, irritability, and feeling blue or down in the dumps.
1 PMS symptoms usually begin the week before a menstrual period. 2  Common symptoms of PMS: mood swings, breast soreness, bloating, acne, cravings for certain foods, and fatigue. The most common symptoms include: mood swings, breast soreness, bloating, acne, cravings for certain foods, increased hunger and thirst, and fatigue. Other symptoms may include constipation or diarrhea, irritability, and feeling blue or down in the dumps.
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) refers to physical and emotional symptoms that occur in the one to two weeks before a woman's period. Symptoms often vary between women and resolve around the start of bleeding. Common symptoms include acne, tender breasts, bloating, feeling tired, irritability, and mood changes. Often symptoms are present for around six days. A woman's pattern of symptoms may change over time.
Thanapathy. Pms symptoms can include feeling tearful, irritability, mood swings, anger, depressed mood, change in sex drive & anxiety. These may be accompanied by swelling of the breasts (or extremities), weight gain, bloating, cramps, overeating, headaches (to include migraines), dizziness, fainting and palpitations. 
Having PMS means that over the one or two weeks leading up to their periods, women experience changes that are emotional, physical – or both. These PMS symptoms, which include common complaints such as headache, cramps, and mood swings, usually go away when the period starts. While the myriad of PMS symptoms can range from mild to severe, many women find that one or more symptoms in particular make life miserable, at least for a brief while. The Physical and Emotional Sides of PMS. Few studies have tracked which symptoms are the most common, but irritability and emotional symptoms, such as crying easily, seem to top the list of women’s complaints. Other common symptoms include cramps, acne breakouts, breast tenderness, and gastrointestinal issues.
Premenstrual (pree-MEN-struhl) syndrome (PMS) is a group of symptoms linked to the menstrual cycle. PMS symptoms occur 1 to 2 weeks before your period (menstruation or monthly bleeding) starts. The symptoms usually go away after you start bleeding. PMS can affect menstruating women of any age and the effect is different for each woman. For some people, PMS is just a monthly bother.
PMS occurs one week or sometimes up to 2 weeks before your period. There are actually a total of 150 known symptoms of PMS. The most common symptoms include: mood swings, breast soreness, bloating, acne, cravings for certain foods, increased hunger and thirst, and fatigue. Other symptoms may include constipation or diarrhea, irritability, and feeling blue or down in the dumps.
Severe symptoms. Women who have severe premenstrual mood swings, depression, irritability, or anxiety (with or without physical symptoms) are said to have premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) . Symptoms generally go away within the first 3 days of menstrual bleeding. 
Although regular PMS and PMDD both have physical and emotional symptoms, PMDD causes extreme mood shifts that can disrupt your work and damage your relationships. In both PMDD and PMS, symptoms usually begin seven to 10 days before your period starts and continue for the first few days that you have your period. 
Whether it’s cramps or emotional changes, there’s a lot you can go through when those three letters are thrown around. PMS stands for premenstrual syndrome – it’s the combination of symptoms that some women suffer from a week or so before their period. Symptoms appear before your period starts (as many as five days) and will disappear during your period. 