The name Russell is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Russell is: Reddish. English Meaning: The name Russell is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Russell is: Form of Rufus: Red-haired. The name Russell is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Russell is: Red haired. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Russell is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Russell is: Fox.
Next. I have a 4 year old Jack Russell and she is just plain mean, on occasion she'll be nice, but she becomes very possessive of a ball or treat and is even worse at night! we have no idea what to do..... Follow. 7 answers 7. Report Abuse
The term Jack Russell is commonly misapplied to other small white terriers. The Jack Russell is a broad type, with a size range of 10–15 inches. The Parson Russell is limited only to a middle range with a standard size of 12–14 inches, while the Russell terrier is smaller at 8–12 inches. The Jack Russell is an energetic breed that relies on a high level of exercise and stimulation and is relatively free from serious health complaints. Originating from dogs bred and used by Reverend John Russell in the early 19th century, it has similar origins to the modern Fox terrier.
The Jack Russell Terrier is a small terrier that has its origins in fox hunting; it is principally white-bodied and smooth, rough or broken-coated. It is commonly confused with the Parson Russell terrier (see the American Kennel Club) and the Russell terrier, which is a shorter-legged, stockier variety. The Jack Russell is an energetic breed that relies on a high level of exercise and stimulation and is relatively free from serious health complaints. Originating from dogs bred and used by Reverend John Russell in the early 19th century, it has similar origins to the modern Fox terrier.
Developed in England some 200 years ago to hunt foxes, the Jack Russell Terrier, also known as the Parson Russell Terrier, is a lively, independent, and clever little dog. He's charming and affectionate, but he's also a handful to train and manage. 
Latin Meaning: The name Russell is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Russell is: Red haired. American Meaning: The name Russell is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Russell is: Red haired. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Russell is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Russell is: Fox.
Jack Russell Terrier. The Jack Russell terrier is a small terrier that has its origins in fox hunting; it is principally white-bodied and smooth, rough or broken-coated. It is commonly confused with the Parson Russell terrier and the Russell terrier, which is a shorter-legged, stockier variety. The Jack Russell is an energetic breed that relies on a high level of exercise and stimulation and is relatively free from serious health complaints. Originating from dogs bred and used by Reverend John Russell in the early 19th century, it has similar origins to the modern Fox terrier.
JRT is an implementation of the Pascal programming language. It was available in the early 1980s on the CP/M operating system. At the end of the 1970s, the most popular Pascal implementation for microcomputers was UCSD Pascal, which many people considered overpriced at hundreds of dollars. The original basis for UCSD Pascal was the p-machine compiler from ETH Zurich the originators of Pascal. JRT was a Pascal interpreter, that compiled down to its own pseudo-code totally separate from UCSD Pascal p-code. It was written by Jim Russell Tyson who had the idea that if he dropped the price he'd sell more copie