›› Definition: Millilitre. The millilitre (ml or mL, also spelled milliliter) is a metric unit of volume that is equal to one thousandth of a litre. It is a non-SI unit accepted for use with the International Systems of Units (SI). It is exactly equivalent to 1 cubic centimetre (cm, or, non-standard, cc). The SI prefix deci stands for one-tenth
The DL element should be used when you want to incorporate a definition of a term in your document, it is often used in glossaries to define many terms, it is also used in “normal” documents when the author wishes to explain a term in a more detail (Like this definition). 
Definition of DL. 1  DL is short for down-low, which basically means to keep things under-wraps, to keep a secret or lay low. 2  I'll tell you this, but, you gotta promise to keep it on the DL. 1 D.L. means down low. it means that something is not known to all. if you keep something on the D.L... 2  you don't share it with others. 3  I don't want my Dad to find out, so keep it on the D.L. 4  She like me but keep tha
1 DL is short for down-low, which basically means to keep things under-wraps, to keep a secret or lay low. 2  I'll tell you this, but, you gotta promise to keep it on the DL. 1 D.L. means down low. it means that something is not known to all. if you keep something on the D.L... 2  you don't share it with others. 3  I don't want my Dad to find out, so keep it on the D.L. 4  She like me but keep tha
Files that contain the .dl_ file extension contain a backup copy of a Microsoft Windows dynamic link library (DLL) file. A dynamic link library is the file format that Microsoft uses for shared library purposes. DLL files are similar in nature to EXE files. DLL files can be compressed in order to make it easier for a user to download the file or to save space on a user's hard drive. Compression is usually performed when a backup copy of a DLL file is made. The backup copy of the DLL file is given the .dl_ extension to reflect that the file is a backup copy and has been compressed. When the file is decompressed and opened on the user's computer, the .dll extension will be reassigned to the file to replace the .dl_ file extension
Top Definition. DL. DOWN LOW see also D low--Hidden, concealed,secret.Specifically used to refer to covert male homosexual activity.Whether we're talking about guys who freak with their boys, or hustlers who are strictly gay for pay.
dl. chemical prefix (small capitals) denoting that the substance is an equimolecular mixture of two catamorphs, one of which corresponds in configuration to d-glyceraldehyde, the other to l-glyceraldehyde. 
A decilitre (or deciliter), abbreviated dL or dl, is one tenth of a litre, or 10^?4 m^3, or 100 millilitre. The SI prefix deci stands for one-tenth. The millilitre (ml or mL, also spelled milliliter) is a metric unit of volume that is equal to one thousandth of a litre. It is a non-SI unit accepted for use with the International Systems of Units (SI). It is exactly equivalent to 1 cubic centimetre (cm, or, non-standard, cc)
In the case that your DL file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit DL file extensions. If your PC opens the DL file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings. Windows might tell you that you can't open it, or in the worst case, you might encounter a DL file related error message. Before you can open a DL file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the DL file extension refers to.