In the past, Mount Vesuvius has had a roughly 20-year eruption cycle, but the last serious eruption was in 1944. Vesuvius and Pompeii. Mount Vesuvius destroyed the city of Pompeii in A.D. 79. Because the city was buried so quickly by volcanic ash, the site is a well-preserved snapshot of life in a Roman city.
When Mount Vesuvius erupted in 79 CE, it wiped the city of Pompeii off the face of the planet, burying both it and its citizens under tons of volcanic fallout! 
Pompeii was an ancient Roman city, buried by a volcanic eruption from Mount Vesuvius Volcano in 79 AD. In 1748, archaeologists uncovered the city. The people in Pompeii did no … t have a chance to escape; the city had been quickly buried by volcanic ash. In 1748, archaeologists uncovered the city. The entire city of Pompeii was buried under ash and anyone who was there died. The site, which is 65 acres, was uncovered in the 1800's and today you can see the city as it wa … s when it was buried in 79 AD. However immediately after the eruption, the looters moved in.
Mount Vesuvius, on the west coast of Italy, is the only active volcano on mainland Europe. It is best known because of the eruption in A.D. 79 that destroyed the city of Pompeii. Vesuvius and Pompeii. Mount Vesuvius destroyed the city of Pompeii in A.D. 79. Because the city was buried so quickly by volcanic ash, the site is a well-preserved snapshot of life in a Roman city.
Best Answer: Mount Vesuvius has erupted many times. The famous eruption in 79 AD was preceded by numerous others in prehistory, including at least three significantly larger ones, the best known being the Avellino eruption around 1800 BC which engulfed several Bronze Age settlements. 
The city of Pompeii was a major resort city during the times of Ancient Rome. However, in 79 AD, disaster struck the city when it was buried under 20 feet of ash and debris from the eruption of the nearby volcano, Mount Vesuvius. History. Pompeii was originally settled around the 7th century BC by the Oscan peoples. The port city was in a prime location for trade as well as farming
Mount Vesuvius, a composite volcano, erupted in AD79 and killed thousands of people in the Roman cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum. Archaeologists have discovered hollows in the volcanic ash where the victims' bodies fell and eventually decayed. For a long time it was believed that lava from Mount Vesuvius killed the people of Pompeii in AD79. This clip shows that this couldn't have been the case and introduces the mystery that shrouded this famous eruption for many years.
The eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 AD was one of the most catastrophic and infamous volcanic eruptions in European history. Historians have learned about the eruption from the eyewitness account of Pliny the Younger, a Roman administrator and poet. The AD 79 eruption was preceded by a powerful earthquake seventeen years beforehand on February 5, AD 62, which caused widespread destruction around the Bay of Naples, and particularly to Pompeii.
Pompeii, along with Herculaneum and many villas in the surrounding area, was mostly destroyed and buried under 4 to 6 m (13 to 20 ft) of ash and pumice in the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 AD. Researchers believe that the town was founded in the seventh or sixth century BC by the Osci or Oscans. Today it is some distance inland, but in ancient times it would have been nearer to the coast. Pompeii is about 8 km (5.0 mi) away from Mount Vesuvius. It covered a total of 64 to 67 hectares (170 acres) and was home to approximately 11,000 to 11,500 people on the basis of household counts.
Introduction. Mount Vesuvius, a volcano near the Bay of Naples in Italy, is hundreds of thousands of years old and has erupted more than 50 times. Its most famous eruption took place in the year 79 A.D., when the volcano buried the ancient Roman city of Pompeii under a thick carpet of volcanic ash. 