A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. If you have a wound that is going to take time to heal, your doctor may recommend that you eat foods high in Vitamin C and protein. Foods high in Vitamin C and protein include green leafy vegetables, meat, eggs, fish, whole grains and citrus fruits. These foods help to encourage healing because of the minerals and vitamins they contain. Every day try to eat foods from a variety of sources that include the following: Carbohydrates supply the energy your body needs to heal. Good choices include: Protein provides building material for muscle and skin repair. You need to eat at least two servings of protein (3 to 4 ounces each) every day.
Black beans are high in protein, which is essential for wound healing. Nutrition is an important factor in every aspect of life, as the foods we eat provide with the energy and nutrients our bodies need to function. Soy. Another go-to food for vegans and vegetarians is the superfood soy. The soybean contains a wide array of vitamins, including A, C, D, E and K, which promote good digestive function, support the immune system and enhance skin health. It’s also high in protein to advance the development of new tissue.
Good nutrition is needed to help heal both types of wounds. What You Need to Know Eating a variety of healthy foods is needed for wound healing. Your body needs more calories, protein, vitamins A and C, and the mineral zinc to help with the healing process. • Increase the amount of calories you eat. 
To promote optimal wound healing, increase your intake of protein. Meat, poultry and fish are all good sources of protein. As World's Healthiest Foods explains, protein is essential for immune system functions, skin health and the production of enzymes. Additionally, vitamin A can be obtained from orange and yellow fruits and vegetables like carrots, sweet potatoes, turnips, winter squash, cantaloupe and apricots. Dark green leafy vegetables like spinach, kale, mustard greens and swiss chard are other options for high vitamin A content and wound healing.
These red fruits often mistaken for vegetables are abundant in lycopene, an antioxidant that’s rare in many other foods. This element is known to protect the body against oxidation that can damage cells, but it also supports good immune function. As such, it has the potential to reduce the risk of wound infection. Soy. Another go-to food for vegans and vegetarians is the superfood soy. The soybean contains a wide array of vitamins, including A, C, D, E and K, which promote good digestive function, support the immune system and enhance skin health. It’s also high in protein to advance the development of new tissue.
Fats from dairy products are essential for wound healing. Cell membranes are created with the use of fatty acids, and you'll need to take in extra sources of these to maintain healing. Cooking oils and meats are also a good source of fats. Protein. Protein helps repair the damaged tissue from your wound. You'll want to take in more protein than usual to help the healing process. This means 2 to 3 servings of protein a day, with each serving containing at least 2 to 3 ounces of meat (1 cup of beans or 2 tablespoons of peanut butter are alternatives).
Proper Nutrition in Wound Healing. Protein is the most important aspect of your diet when healing from a wound. Energy (calories from carbohydrates and fats), amino acids, antioxidants and minerals (zinc) are also important. Protein. Protein helps repair the damaged tissue from your wound. You'll want to take in more protein than usual to help the healing process. This means 2 to 3 servings of protein a day, with each serving containing at least 2 to 3 ounces of meat (1 cup of beans or 2 tablespoons of peanut butter are alternatives).
Eating the right foods can help your wound heal. To heal your wound, your body will need to use more calories. Your body will need protein. It will use Vitamin A and C, and sometimes the mineral Zinc. It is important you eat a variety of foods to help your wound to heal. Choose MyPlate.gov is a good tool for you to use. It tells you about different food you should eat. It tells you the number of servings you should eat. It is important to eat foods from each of the different food groups every day.
Overview. Proper nutrition is essential for wound healing. This means eating a well-balanced diet including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, proteins, dairy and healthy fats like monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats and omega-3 fatty acids. However, as the Cleveland Clinic explains, the body has specific nutritional needs for optimal wound healing. Additionally, vitamin A can be obtained from orange and yellow fruits and vegetables like carrots, sweet potatoes, turnips, winter squash, cantaloupe and apricots. Dark green leafy vegetables like spinach, kale, mustard greens and swiss chard are other options for high vitamin A content and wound healing.