Although travel within Europe is probably associated with milder illness than is travel outside of the region, infection occurring in Europe is likely to be underestimated because most European travellers travel within Europe only. I read with interest the Article by Patricia Schlagenhauf and colleagues x1 See all References 1 about travel-associated infection presenting in Europe.
Ten patients acquired their dengue infections during travel to areas of the United States in which dengue is endemic (Puerto Rico [six] and U.S. Virgin Islands [two]) or to a U.S. location where an outbreak was occurring (Hawaii during May 27, 2001--January 30, 2002 [two]) (5). Previous dengue infection increases the risk for DHF in a patient with subsequent dengue infection. Dengue shock syndrome is DHF with signs of circulatory failure, including narrow pulse pressure (. 20 mm Hg), hypotension, or shock, and can result in a case-fatality rate of approximately 10% (8).
A healthcare-associated infection is an infection that is acquired after contact with the healthcare services. This is most frequently after treatment in a hospital, but can also happen after treatment in outpatient clinics, nursing homes and other healthcare settings. Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that can cause mild to severe illness. Symptoms include cough, shortness of breath and fever. The majority of patients who are treated for pneumonia in hospital are admitted with the infection (having accquired pneumonia in the community).
The purpose of this Bulletin is to raise awareness about travel-associated infectious disease threats through the presentation of several recent travel-associated infections and the provision of some travelers’ health reminders. • Schedule an appointment to see a health care provider 4–6 • Get the appropriate travel vaccines. Examples of travel-associated vaccines that might be indicated in addition to the routinely recommended vaccines in the United States include rabies, typhoid, and yellow fever vaccines.
* lymph (LIMF) nodes are small, bean-shaped masses of tissue that contain immune system cells that fight harmful microorganisms. Lymph nodes may swell during infections. * shock is a serious condition in which blood pressure is very low and not enough blood flows to the body's organs and tissues. A bite from an infected mosquito can transmit filariasis (fih-luh-RYE-uh-sis), a parasitic disease that affects the lymphatic system * . When the infected mosquito feeds, tiny worms pass from it to the person, where they travel to and grow in the lymph vessels.
Please note: An erratum has been published for this article. To view the erratum, please click here. Dengue is a mosquito-transmitted, acute viral disease caused by any of the four dengue virus serotypes (DEN-1, DEN-2, DEN-3, and DEN-4). Dengue is endemic in most tropical and subtropical areas of the world and has occurred in U.S. residents returning from travel to such areas (1--3). CDC maintains a laboratory-based passive surveillance system for travel-associated dengue among U.S. residents*. Previous dengue infection increases the risk for DHF in a patient with subsequent dengue infection. Dengue shock syndrome is DHF with signs of circulatory failure, including narrow pulse pressure (. 20 mm Hg), hypotension, or shock, and can result in a case-fatality rate of approximately 10% (8).
A careful travel history can help to distinguish the traveler's risk of having contracted an exotic infection, including malaria, dengue fever, and typhoid fever. The most common travel-related infection is traveler's diarrhea. A discussion of typical and rare conditions is provided, grouped by the three most common chief complaints of fever, diarrhea, and rash.
Some travel-related infections are spread through the bites of insects, such as mosquitoes (which carry malaria, mah-LAIR-e-uh, and yellow fever) or flies (for example, the tsetse, SET-see, fly can carry trypanosomiasis, trih-pan-o-so-MY-uh-sis). A bite from an infected mosquito can transmit filariasis (fih-luh-RYE-uh-sis), a parasitic disease that affects the lymphatic system * . When the infected mosquito feeds, tiny worms pass from it to the person, where they travel to and grow in the lymph vessels.
Travel-associated infections in migrants are complex for various reasons. Epidemiology can be affected by changing trends in the migrant's country of origin, such as those with HIV originating from sub-Saharan countries. I read with interest the Article by Patricia Schlagenhauf and colleagues x1 See all References 1 about travel-associated infection presenting in Europe.