There are several formulas to figure out how many blocks are needed for a wall project, but the first step is to determine the width and height of the wall, in inches. Once you know the size of your wall, calculate the square footage by multiplying the width(in feet) times the height(in feet). Now you need to figure out the square footage of block you are using. The standard block size is 16″ wide x 8″ high. Multiply 16×8 and then divide 144 by the answer, ie. 144/(16*8) = 1.125
Add. Fill in all the boxes to find how many bricks or blocks are in a wall (or how many you need to build a specific wall). The wall thickness should be quoted in number of brick thicknesses (i.e. 2 in the diagram above). Standard UK bricks are 8.5 x 2.5 inches, and standard US bricks are 8 x 2.25 inches
Brick Calculators and Block Calculators Before you can build a retaining wall or any other masonry wall you will need to be able to calculate the concrete masonry blocks you will need to order. Use this calculator to calculate the amount of concrete block needed to construct a masonry wall. Nick Toth's Retaining Wall. To calculate the quantity of brick or block you need to know what size block or brick you want-the unit dimensions that matter to your quantity is length and height-width won't change the quantity, only the width of the wall you are building.
The Brickability brick calculator is here to provide you with accurate quantities of materials and costs for the wall you want to build. Simply type in the dimensions of the wall you wish to build and the size of bricks you will be using and our calculator will tell you the number of you will need. 
Simply Scroll Down to use our CALCULATORS. To use the Concrete Volume Calculator, simply enter the width, length, and thickness of your pour, click on whether you are measuring the thickness in feet or inches, then click on the Calculate button. The calculator will estimate the number of cubic yards of concrete that will be required. CONCRETE VOLUME.
Calculate the surface area of a single block in the wall, including its mortar allowance. For example, if your standard concrete block is 1 foot by 0.5 feet and is separated from its neighbours by a half-inch of mortar, then each block accounts for 1.0417 x 0.5417, or 0.5643 square feet. 
Cubic Yards Required: To use the Block Wall Calculator, simply enter the height and length of the wall, click on whether you are filling an 8-inch or 12-inch wall, then click on the Calculate button. The calculator will estimate the number of cubic yards that will be required. Note that this is an estimate. To use the Concrete Volume Calculator, simply enter the width, length, and thickness of your pour, click on whether you are measuring the thickness in feet or inches, then click on the Calculate button. The calculator will estimate the number of cubic yards of concrete that will be required. CONCRETE VOLUME.
Calculating the Number of Capstones. To figure the number of capstones needed, dividing the length of the wall in feet by the length of the capstones in inches, then multiply by 12. For example, if the wall is 20 feet long and the capstones are 8 inches wide, then the number of capstones needed is [20/8](12) = 30. Multiply the wall's length by its height plus 1/2 a foot to find the total square footage of the wall. That is, calculate. Wall Area = L(H + 0.5) sq. ft, where L is the length of the wall in feet and H is the finished height of the wall in feet.
Now, compute the total number of stone blocks needed with the formula. Number of Blocks = 144L(H + 0.5)/(AB). The factor of 144 is necessary convert feet to inches. Example: Suppose a wall is to be 20 feet long and 3 feet hight, built with stones that are 6 inches by 10 inches. Then the number of stones needed is. 144(20)(3 + 0.5)/[(6)(10)] = 10080/60 = 168. You should purchase stone blocks to spare in case of breakage. Multiply the wall's length by its height plus 1/2 a foot to find the total square footage of the wall. That is, calculate. Wall Area = L(H + 0.5) sq. ft, where L is the length of the wall in feet and H is the finished height of the wall in feet.