I'm told that everyones body heals at it own pace. Two years ago my husband tore his rotator cuff it took about 6 months for him to stop feeling pain. L-lysine amino acid is great for speeding up the healing process and Bio Freez help with the pain also a cold press to reduce swelling every 2 to three hours. Depends on the severity of the tear. It can be a month to 6 months to a year if it's completely severed. it will take 6 weeks with proper therapy Depends on the ligament a … nd whether or not blood supply to the damaged ligament was lost.
Inflammation. A rotator cuff injury may have been caused from a one-time incident or the result of chronic overuse or misuse. As the body attempts to heal the injured shoulder, the first stage of healing is inflammation. This can last for one day to one week. According to the American Red Cross, first aid for any musculoskeletal injury is “RICE”. 
A torn rotator cuff takes at least 6-8 months to fully recover from. My father had this surgery in Feb 2008 and was not fully recovered until late Sept/early Oct. A torn bicep … tendon takes 4-5 months to get over. I tore mine in June 2008 and was fully recovered in November 2008. Depends on the severity of the tear. It can be a month to 6 months to a year if it's completely severed. it will take 6 weeks with proper therapy Depends on the ligament a … nd whether or not blood supply to the damaged ligament was lost.
How to Heal Your Rotator Cuff. A torn Rotator Cuff is a prime example of a condition that involves chronic reinjury. This reinjury takes place whenever you put even a small load on your arm or attempt to stretch the newly healed and still fragile shoulder tissue. Treatment for a Rotator Cuff injury will cause your shoulder pain to improve and your Rotator Cuff injury to heal. There's no doubt that to heal Rotator Cuff injuries quickly you need BFST treatments. Coldcure will help with shoulder pain.
Most of your pain should subside in a period over 8-12 weeks...however, the rotator cuff has a very poor blood supply and it may give you trouble for 6 months to a year. Good luck! I have done this and took a long time I had surgery, you need to let it fix and as they say-dont run before you walk, I found physio great, they never will be the same as before. I had surgery on Oct 16th this year for two tears on my left shoulder.
If you have a rotator cuff injury, it's very important to heal it quickly and completely. Minimizing the healing time should be an obvious goal, as a chronic rotator cuff tear or injury will limit your ability to go about your daily routine for a long period of time. Continual repetitive use of the injured rotator cuff will lead to a worse injury. Although the rotator cuff can tear suddenly as a result of a serious injury, most rotator cuff problems develop over time. Remember to include your physician in choosing the best treatment option for you. To discuss your particular situation and how our products can help, call toll-free at 1-866-237-9608
6-12 weeks: Typically, a rotator cuff strain resolves in 6-12 weeks. They are sometimes associated with other injuries that may take longer. Rotator cuff tears do not heal on their own. They may calm down and stop producing pain, but will not heal back to the original position. Healing after a rotator cuff repair takes 12-16 weeks and continues to improve 6 months after surgery. Get help from a doctor now ›. Severity dictates: Not all rotator cuff injuries are the same. Important variables that determine time to healing include: size, location and extent of the cuff injury along with the overall health of the injured patient.
I think it's around 6 weeks. Depends on the severity. If it requires surgery, it'll take some time (1 year). Get it looked at and see what the doctor finds. I hurt my rotor cuff and didn't get it looked at and about 5 months later, while playing football, I threw a long pass and my should gave out. It popped and it felt like warm fluid inside. Good luck! I have done this and took a long time I had surgery, you need to let it fix and as they say-dont run before you walk, I found physio great, they never will be the same as before. I had surgery on Oct 16th this year for two tears on my left shoulder.