This paper aims to define Marketing Operations as a discipline within the Marketing organization and illustrate the crucial role it plays within the Marketing cycle. Marketing Operations is an organiza-tional approach to creating demand for products and services. It focuses on end-to-end marketing optimization—from planning and budgeting to global execution and analysis—using tools, Professional Development...3databases, automation, and best practices. Marketing Operations is a relatively new discipline within the Marketing framework. Research firms such as IDC and SiriusDecisions first recognized this emerging field about 15 years ago. Early adopters include high tech companies such as Cisco Systems, Symantec, and Adobe
The processes it defines are built into software tools, i.e. Marketing Resource Management systems. It is characterized by an attempt to achieve measurable and trackable Return on Marketing Investment (ROMI), and, as a means of achieving that, creating a marketing dashboard, leading to improved marketing effectiveness.
In my previous role, I’d handled marketing operations and demand generation. I was sure they didn’t need so many people for operations alone. Boy, was I wrong. What I failed to realize was that marketing operations (affectionately known as “MOPS” at Marketo) is at the core of a well-run marketing team. They improve, optimize, and make processes efficient. More headcount on your operations team = less head aches for everyone else. In our organization, marketing operations is the team who not only grants new employees the appropriate access when they are hired, but also ensures their account is promptly deleted when they leave. Marketing operations also handles the creation of “Custom Roles” within your marketing automation instance.
A Marketing Operations Manager is responsible for planning and organizing a company’s marketing. He or she must be able to calculate the demand of the products or services offered by the company, determine customer base, monitor trends, analyze competition, forecast revenues, and establish pricing strategies. 
The difference between a marketing technology office and a marketing operations group, however, is that marketing operations encompasses a broader collection of interrelated operational responsibilities, covering ROI, accountability, process optimization, and marketing enablement: 1  Reporting and analytics. What I left with, however, was a profound appreciation for the ascendency of the marketing operations role. In the words of Craig Moore, a director at Sirius Decisions and the opening speaker, until recently, marketing operations was the island of misfit toys.
Marketing Operations Management (MOM) is a version of end-to-end marketing optimization, from planning and budgeting, through marketing content management, to global marketing execution and analysis. It is the conceptual framework that defines all processes supporting marketing strategy and tactics. It is characterized by an attempt to achieve measurable and trackable Return on Marketing Investment (ROMI), and, as a means of achieving that, creating a marketing dashboard, leading to improved marketing effectiveness.
1 Marketing Operations, in the context of Marketing Resource Management practice, was introduced for the first time in a book by Jansen and Riemersma, Marketing Resource Management: The Noble Art of Getting Things Done in Marketing. 2  Efficiently. Also in 2007, the Journey to Marketing Operations Maturity study by Marketing Operations Partners published an MO framework with marketing strategy and guidance supported by ecosystem alignment, leading to marketing processes and metrics supported by technology and infrastructure management.
The marketing operations (MO) function has emerged due to the need for a more transparent, efficient, and accountable view of marketing. Its growth was initially driven by the proliferation of marketing technology and increased pressure from the C-suite to prove the value of marketing and contribute to the bottom-line. Also in 2007, the Journey to Marketing Operations Maturity study by Marketing Operations Partners published an MO framework with marketing strategy and guidance supported by ecosystem alignment, leading to marketing processes and metrics supported by technology and infrastructure management.