French monks in the Champagne region of France are credited with the actual domestication of the wild European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) in the fifth century, producing the rabbit we know today as the Champagne De Argent (De Argent means silver). 
Rabbit. Rabbits came originally from south west Europe and north west Africa. Deliberate introduction to many countries has been so successful that rabbits are often considered as pests, owing to the vast ecological and agricultural damage they can cause
I'll take rabbit history back to the European rabbit, which was accidentally discovered on the coast of Spain, around 1200 BC, by Phoenician sailors, an ancient civilization that sailed around the Southern Mediterranean coasts on Galley ships. Romans and Rabbits. The Romans played a big part in rabbit history. When they occupied Spain in around 200 BC they cottoned on to the fact that rabbits were great sources of meat and fur.
Habitat European Rabbits are found throughout Europe and in north west Africa. They have been introduced to Australia, New Zealand and South America. They inhabit heathland, grassland, woodland, open meadows and the edges of agricultural land. 
History. The exact origin of the European Rabbit, also known as the Old World Rabbit, is unclear, but scientific evidence makes it appear that after the end of the last glacial period, the rabbits were only found only on the Iberian Peninsula. 
The European rabbit became widespread in North America and Australia, for example, where the wild rabbit has become a troublesome pest to farmers and conservationists. Wild rabbits are said to have been first domesticated in the 5th Century by the monks of the Champagne Region in France. Monks were almost certainly the first to keep rabbits in cages as a readily available food source, and the first to experiment with selective breeding for traits such as weight or fur colour. Rabbits were introduced to Britain during the 12th Century, and during the Middle Ages, the breeding and farming of rabbits for meat and fur became widespread throughout Europe. Sources suggest that some women among the Medieval gentry even kept rabbits as pets.
Rabbits belong to the order of mammals called Lagomorpha, which includes 40 or so species of rabbits, hares and Pikas. Fossil records suggest that Lagomorpha evolved in Asia... Rabbits belong to the order of mammals called Lagomorpha, which includes 40 or so species of rabbits, hares and Pikas. Fossil records suggest that Lagomorpha evolved in Asia at least 40 million years ago, during the Eocene period. Rabbits were introduced to Britain during the 12th Century, and during the Middle Ages, the breeding and farming of rabbits for meat and fur became widespread throughout Europe. Sources suggest that some women among the Medieval gentry even kept rabbits as pets.
Rabbits are a serious mammalian pest and invasive species in Australia causing millions of dollars of damage to crops. Rabbits were introduced to Australia in the 18th century with the First Fleet and became widespread after an outbreak caused by an 1859 release. 
For general information on all rabbit species, see Rabbit. The European rabbit or common rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) is a species of rabbit native to southwestern Europe (Spain and Portugal) and northwest Africa (Morocco and Algeria). It has been widely introduced elsewhere, often with devastating effects on local biodiversity. A male and female European rabbit (face). The European rabbit is a smallish, grey-brown (or sometimes black) mammal, although it ranks as medium-sized by lagomorph standards. It ranges from 34 to 50 cm (13 to 20 inches) in length, not counting a tail of 4 to 8 cm (1.6 to 3.1 in).