Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in many organs, including the liver, bone, kidney, intestine and placenta. The highest concentration of alkaline phosphatase comes from the liver and bone. A routine blood test detects the total amount of alkaline phosphatase in the blood.
An alkaline phosphatase level test (ALP test) measures the amount of alkaline phosphatase enzyme in your bloodstream. The test requires a simple blood draw and is often a routine part of other blood tests. Abnormal levels of ALP in your blood most often indicate a problem with your liver and/or bones.
Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is a protein found in all body tissues. Tissues with higher amounts of ALP include the liver, bile ducts, and bone. A blood test can be done to measure the level of ALP. A related test is the ALP isoenzyme test.
Because this test is not specific for liver or bone, other liver-or bone-specific blood tests are usually needed to help determine the source of an increased blood alkaline phosphatase level. Symptoms may also help determine the source. Otherwise, an alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme test can
Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is present in a number of tissues including liver, bone, intestine, and placenta. Serum ALP is of interest in the diagnosis of 2 main groups of conditions-hepatobiliary disease and bone disease associated with increased osteoblastic activity.
The normal value for alkaline phosphatase is 53 to 128 U/L for a 20- to 50-year-old man and 42 to 98 U/L for a 20- to 50-year-old woman. Pregnant women typically have higher alkaline phosphatase values due to contributions from the placenta. Normal values are slightly different if you are older than 60 -- 56 to 119 U/L if you're a man or 53 to 141 U/L if you're a woman. Normal values can vary slightly among testing laboratories.
An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones.
Alkaline phosphatase is an enzymatic protein found in liver, intestine, placenta and bone. The normal adult range of alkaline phosphatase is 41 to 133 IU per liter of blood, and these values vary among laboratory and method, according to The Pocket Guide to Diagnostic Tests..