Grass carp caught in the St. Croix River. Species and Origin: The grass carp, or white amur, is a very large fish in the minnow family (Cyprinidae). The body is torpedo shaped with moderately large scales, while the head has no scales. They are silver to olive in color. 
The grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) is a herbivorous, freshwater fish species of the family Cyprinidae, and the only species of the genus Ctenopharyngodon. It is a large cyprinid native to eastern Asia, with a native range from northern Vietnam to the Amur River on the Siberia-China border. Grass carp will enter reproductive condition and spawn at temperatures of 20 to 30°C (68 to 86°F). In the United States, the fish is also known as white amur, which is derived from the Amur River, where the species is probably native, but has never been abundant.
Description of Method-Triploid Grass Carp. The grass carp, also known as the white amur, is a vegetarian fish native to the Amur River in Asia. Because this fish feeds on aquatic plants, it can be used as a biological tool to control nuisance aquatic plant growth. In some situations, sterile grass carp may be permitted for introduction into Washington waters. In quantities of 10,000 or more, 8 to 12 inch sterile grass carp can be purchased for about $5.00 each for truck delivery. The cost of small air freighted orders will vary and is estimated at $10 to $20 per fish with shipping.
Grass carp should not be stocked in a pond where attracting ducks is an important goal for the pond. Most ducks, especially surface-feeding (dabbling) ducks such as mallards, eat aquatic plants and are attracted to ponds with aquatic plants. Grass carp prefer many of the plant species that attract ducks. Grass carp generally should not be stocked into a pond or wetland where maintaining a natural ecosystem is an important goal. Aquatic plants are a natural component of shallow ponds and wetlands.
Controlling aquatic vegetation with grass carp is one of the options available to pond owners with aquatic plant problems. In many situations, the use of grass carp is an economical, long lasting, and effective option. However, grass carp are not appropriate for every pond with abundant aquatic plants. Grass carp prefer many of the plant species that attract ducks. Grass carp generally should not be stocked into a pond or wetland where maintaining a natural ecosystem is an important goal. Aquatic plants are a natural component of shallow ponds and wetlands.
When to Stock. Plant control with triploid grass carp is most successful when the fish are stocked just as plants begin growing in the pond (late spring). Stocking of fish during the late summer, when the pond is already clogged with vegetation often leads to unsatisfactory results. Grass carp lack the barbels and spiny dorsal and anal fin rays characteristic of goldfish and common carp, bearing a closer resemblance to a large creek chub or common shiner. Coloration of the fish ranges from dark grey to golden brown on the back, blending to white on the belly.
This bulletin provides information on a biological method, the grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella Val.), for management of some of Florida's aquatic weed problems. Emphasis is placed on use of this fish to control hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata [L.f.] Royle) and other submersed aquatic plants. The triploid grass carp is produced in the same way as the diploid, except that fertilized eggs subjected to heat, cold, or pressure shock result in the formation of fish with an extra set of chromosomes for a total of 72. The extra chromosomes make these fish sterile.
Grass carp are freshwater fish that feed primarily on aquatic plants. In the 1970s, they were introduced to a number of lakes and ponds in Florida as part of an experimental effort to control aquatic weeds, particularly the exotic plant Hydrilla (Hydrilla verticulata). 