The period between 6-12 weeks is a dangerous time. One sniff where a sick dog relieved itself in the last 6 months can bring on parvo or another life threatening disease. Fail to expose it to strangers, including men, women, children, noise, etc. and you could end up with a misfit you can't take out in public. I had Bella outside to start potty training at a day shy of 10 weeks. She already had her first set of puppy shots which are given at 8 weeks. I think so long as you have those, and avoid spots where other dogs deficate then you should be fine.
How long a puppy can actually hold her bladder, depends on the puppy's age. In theory, a pup is able to hold her bladder roughly one hour per month of her age. I said in theory as, in my experience, a puppy needs to go a lot more often than once every 2 hours at 8 weeks old. If you had your pup in a crate then they would likely be able to hold their bladder for this length of time. However, if your pup is loose in the house with you, then I'd suggest that you'll need to take her out to potty more frequently. For example, it would be closer to every 30-40 minute
That depends. If you have a mother dog with a litter of puppies, they can start to go outside as soon as they are mobile, as long as you have a fenced yard where no stray dogs wander in and out. In fact, it's the very best way to get their housebreaking started. If you mean a litter of puppies you have bred then they can go out from about 4 weeks old as long as they are all fit and healthy and the weather is OK.
Puppies should be with their mother until 8 weeks of age and then go to their new home. You should then contact your vet to find out when they can be vaccinated. Some puppies will need their first vaccination – and then a second one a couple of weeks later, depending on your vet’s advice. Others will have already had one vaccination, arranged by the breeder – and will be due for a second.
Best Answer: The puppy needs to have all his vaccinations before you take him outside your own home. Give him time. Three months is normally the right time for a puppy to have his first walk and that should be no more than 5/10 minutes. · just now. Report Abuse. Not till they are full vaccinated. Usually done at 8 weeks then ten 10 weeks then a week after that they can go out but in some toy breeds vet like to wait till they are 10 weeks before starting the vaccination.
A good rule of thumb is a ratio of five minutes exercise per month of age (up to twice a day) until the puppy is fully grown, i.e. 15 minutes (up to twice a day) when three months old, 20 minutes when four months old etc. Once they are fully grown, they can go out for much longer. 
The number of potty trips your puppy will need each day depends on his age. The younger your puppy is, the less bowel and bladder control he’ll have and the more potty trips he’ll need. If your puppy is less than 6 weeks old, plan to take him out every 30 or 45 minutes during the daytime. If he’s 6-12 weeks old, plan to take him outside every hour. My 4-month-old puppy is still waking up twice overnight to go out to potty. Most puppies are able to make it through the night without a potty trip by the time they’re 3 or 4 months old. If that hasn’t happened for your puppy yet, try feeding him earlier, since you don’t want him going to bed with a full belly.
Puppies can usually go out when they have had all their injections from the vet. And that's usually between 12 weeks and 14 weeks. If you bring a puppy out without having had it's injections there is a good chance it will pick up Pavro and die because it is too young to fight it. If you mean a litter of puppies you have bred then they can go out from about 4 weeks old as long as they are all fit and healthy and the weather is OK.
Answers. Any age just to go potty or something, but a puppy should have all of it's shots to meet other dogs or spend long periods of time outside. Talk to your vet to see if your puppy has gotten all of his or her shots. Jet answered on 6/20/09. I had Bella outside to start potty training at a day shy of 10 weeks. She already had her first set of puppy shots which are given at 8 weeks. I think so long as you have those, and avoid spots where other dogs deficate then you should be fine.