The mistletoe is a plant parasite on many different types of trees. Unlike those of the dodder, the leaves of the mistletoe do contain chlorophyll and the plant makes its own food by photosynthesis. The mistletoe develops high up on the branches of the host tree. 
The mistletoe plant attaches to the host plant and penetrates its branches, from where it absorbs nutrients. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Curb Appeal: Picking the Right Trees for Your Yard Adding a tree to your landscape is one of the most important decisions you can make as a homeowner. A mistletoe affects a tree because it will send roots into the tree.Tapping into the water conducting tissue of, trees and will absorb the water and nutrients from the tree. Edit. Share to: Answered. In Holidays and Traditions
Symbiosis Between Mistletoe & A Tree Symbiosis In this case the mistletoe is the parasite and the tree is the host. Mutualism If the relationship is competitive, it means that only one organism gains something. If the relationship is competitive the parasite eventually kills the host. Here is an example of how the mistletoe lives: Even though mistletoe is often thought of as a cheery plant, it is actually quite deadly to other plants.
The spruce tree has a symbiotic relationship with the mistletoe.  This symbiotic relationship is an example of parasitism since the  mistletoe obtains water and nutrients fr … om the spruce tree, putting  it at risk of harm. 3 people found this useful.
“both benefit” Antelope with OxbirdAntelope gets rid of parasites Oxbird gets a mealExample MUTUALSIM: “one benefits, one is harmed” EXAMPLE PARASITISM:Mistletoe receives water and nutrients from Spruce TreeSpruce tree looses water and nutrients, may dieMistletoe on Spruce Tree. 
They form a symbiotic relationship with desert mistletoe; the seeds of the mistletoe pass through the gut of the birds undamaged and when the birds defecate, they plant the seeds on the branches below. In return for their dispersal services, they get a plentiful food supply (in most years), and a place to nest. 
Mistletoe. (Pharadendron engelmanni). Mistletoe is a tree parasitic plant that derives its food directly from trees. The haustoria or feeding structures of the mistletoe grows into the vascular system of the tree and derives their nutrients from the sap flow of the tree. Of these, only mistletoe is classed as a parasitic plant on ornamental shade trees. Lichens, ball moss, and Spanish moss, although found on trees, are not feeding on the tree, but only using the tree for support.
SYMBIOTIC RELATIONSHIPS. Please place. COMMENSALISM (C) PARASITISM (P. _____ mistletoe / spruce tree Mistletoe extracts water and nutrients from the spruce tree. 02.03.2010 · Mistletoe is a parasite. It grows on trees, spruce and others, and absorbs nutrients. It is called hemi-parasitic. Overgrowth can kill a tree
The symbiotic relationship between the mistletoe and the spruce is parasitism. Good Buddies: Symbiotic Relationships. Answer Key for Class Activity. Mistletoe / Spruce Tree. Mistletoe extracts water and nutrients from the spruce tree to the. _____ mistletoe / spruce tree Mistletoe extracts water and nutrients from the spruce tree. 02.03.2010 · Mistletoe is a parasite. It grows on trees, spruce and others, and absorbs nutrients. It is called hemi-parasitic.