Onions are characterized by day length; long-day onion varieties will quit forming tops and begin to form bulbs when the daylength reaches 14 to 16 hours while short-day onions will start making bulbs much earlier in the year when there are only 10 to 12 hours of daylight. Preparing the Soil. Onions are best grown on raised beds at least four inches high and 20 inches wide. Onion growth and yield can be greatly enhanced by banding a fertilizer rich in phosphorous (10-20-10) 2 to 3 inches below transplants at planting time.
Yellow onions have a long shelf life. A staple in many kitchens, yellow onions are a high-yield crop; from a square-foot plot of earth you can harvest 20 to 50 onions. If you grow bulb onions from seed, the process will take up to two years. For a quicker crop, grow onions from sets, dormant baby bulbs, the size of a large pea, grown the prior year. Expect yellow onions to reach harvest around 100 days after you plant the sets. 
Part 2 of 2: Planting Your Onions. 1. Get the soil ready. When you’re ready to plant, till the soil about 6 inches (15.2 cm) deep and add a layer (1 cup per 20 feet) of phosphorous fertilizer. Using a mixture such as 10-20-10 or 0-20-0 will provide an extra boost for your developing onions. Give your onions about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water per week, and supplement with a nitrogen fertilizer once a month for nutrients. One month after planting, add a layer of mulch between each plant to lock in moisture and block out weeds.
Green onions are generally ready for harvest in 20 to 30 days. Onion varieties differ in shape, size, flavor and color. Depending on the type of onion and whether you start plants from seed, transplants or sets, the time to maturity varies as well. It can take up to five months for plants to mature enough to harvest. When starting onion plants from seed, allow the soil temperature to warm to at least 50 degrees Fahrenheit before sowing.
Starting onion plants from seed takes the longest for onions to fully grow, but seeds give you the most choices in variety. It can take up to five months for plants to mature enough to harvest. When starting onion plants from seed, allow the soil temperature to warm to at least 50 degrees Fahrenheit before sowing. In areas with mild winters, you can plant varieties of short-day onions four weeks before the first frost in fall
The stem gets either small onions on it or flowers then seeds depending on the type it is. You plant the seeds or baby onions to get more. If you plant a whole onion with the root part down and the top just covered with dirt it will grow the green tops and then it will grow the seeds or baby onions. One year you will have seeds from the onion. The next year you will have onions from the seed
Onions are ready to harvest approximatly 150 days after planting seeds, and approximately 100 days after transplanting sets. Green or spring onions are pulled as needed when the stems are about 1/4 inch thick. Pull green onions anytime after the tops are 6 inches tall. Plant onions 1 inch deep and 3 to 4 inches apart in double rows, leaving 6 to 10 inches between rows. Be sure to leave enough room between rows to weed. If the onions are planted closer together, you can harvest every other plant as a green onion so that bulb development of the remaining plants is not impeded.
For a shorter period between planting and harvest, you may choose to start the onion seeds indoors eight to 12 weeks before the last frost date for your area and transplant seedlings outdoors when they grow to 1/4 inch in diameter, about two to four weeks before the last frost date for your area. It can take up to five months for plants to mature enough to harvest. When starting onion plants from seed, allow the soil temperature to warm to at least 50 degrees Fahrenheit before sowing.