The term ‘Phlegm’ comes from the Greek word ‘phlegma’ meaning inflammation. It actually means the mucus that gets accumulated in your throat and needs to be coughed out. It is a watery substance, often viscous, that varies in color and quantity depending on the sickness you are suffering from. http://www.healthhype.com/coughing-up-phlegm-mucus-sputum-from-the-throat.html. http://www.coughingupphlegm.org/. http://www.ehow.com/how_5618387_cough-up-mucus.html. Published on November 25th 2010 by anirudh under Lungs, Breathing and Respiration.
Introduction. Mucus is an important part of your body's ability to protect itself from foreign invaders ranging from allergens to viruses and bacteria. Though it may feel like a pain to have a runny nose, or cough of phlegm, it is the mucus in these substances that actually helps you get better faster. Mucus is a mixture of approximately 95 percent water and five percent salt, fat, carbohydrates and proteins. Where It Comes From. Mucus comes from your mucus glands around the nose and sinus cavities. A healthy person will normally generate about a pint of mucus per day. This mucus runs down your nasal cavities to both keep them moist, as well as attract and trap and foreign particles that enter the nose.
Phlegm is a mucus-like substance produced by the lower airways, such as the lungs and the respiratory system leading to the lungs, not by the nose and sinuses, which produce the mucus that streams out of or clogs up your nose. You may not notice phlegm unless you cough it up as a symptom of bronchitis or pneumonia. As is the case with mucus, phlegm that has a color such as green or yellow may indicate infection. Any time you see blood in the phlegm you cough up, you should seek medical attention. 3. 1 Post-nasal drip (thick mucus). 2  Take an expectorant (this thins mucus and phlegm), drink lots of fluids, breathe through a warm washcloth, and use steam to make the mucus more liquid. 3  Congestion (blocked nose).
Coughing up yellow mucus is a sign that there is an inflammation of the respiratory tract. Inflammatory cells are also known as leucocytes and it is these cells that produce the yellow coloured mucus. Quite commonly a person with bronchitis or pneumonia will experience coughing up mucus that has a yellow tinge to it. 
By: Nina Kristiansen. A runny nose is a sure symptom of a cold, but also allergies can turn your nose into a leaking faucet. (Photo: Colourbox). Winter has come to the Northern part of the world, and people are suffering from colds. One symptom of the seasonal cold is the runny nose
Your respiratory system is protected by a special type of mucus, known as phlegm. Its job is to protect the lungs from stuff that could get in there, like dust, pollen or smoke. The stuff that makes it to your nose is called nasal mucus, or snot. 
Snot is actually a collective designation for everything that comes out of your nose, with the exception of when you have a nosebleed. When you are healthy it runs out as mucous. If the mucous is dried you get boogers. When you catch a cold the production increases and the phlegm and body water run from your nose. A runny nose is a sure symptom of a cold, but also allergies can turn your nose into a leaking faucet. (Photo: Colourbox). Winter has come to the Northern part of the world, and people are suffering from colds.
Phlegm /ˈflɛm/ (Greek: φλέγμα inflammation, humour caused by heat) is a liquid secreted by the mucous membranes of mammals. Its definition is limited to the mucus produced by the respiratory system, excluding that from the nasal passages, and particularly that which is expelled by coughing (sputum). Phlegm is in essence a water-based gel consisting of glycoproteins, immunoglobulins, lipids and other substances.
Mucus also acts as a sort of flypaper, trapping unwanted substances like bacteria and dust before they can get into the body -- particularly the sensitive airways. You want to keep that environment, which is a sterile environment, free of gunk, says Johns. Mucus is kind of sticky and thick. Mucus' Mission. Mucus-producing tissue lines the mouth, nose, sinuses, throat, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract. Mucus acts as a protective blanket over these surfaces, preventing the tissue underneath from drying out.