Foods containing plant sterols have high levels of HDL cholesterol. Plant sterols are cholesterol compounds found naturally in plants. In the January 2008 issue of Metabolism, Dr. David Jenkins says that foods high in plant sterols reduced LDL levels of patients by 9 to 14 percent. To lower your LDL levels, avoid foods with saturated fats. Having high levels of high-density lipoprotein, or HDL cholesterol, is healthy. HDL cholesterol helps remove LDL cholesterol from your blood, reducing your risk for disease.
Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats — found in olive, peanut and canola oils — tend to improve HDL's anti-inflammatory abilities. Nuts, fish and other foods containing omega-3 fatty acids are other good choices for improving your LDL cholesterol to HDL cholesterol ratio. 1  Drink alcohol only in moderation. 2  Moderate use of alcohol has been linked with higher levels of HDL cholesterol. 3  If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. 
We look at foods that boost your levels of HDL-the so-called 'good' cholesterol that can lessen your chances of a heart attack or stroke. Beans and lentils. All types of beans-from chick peas to lentils and even plain old baked beans-can help to boost your levels of good cholesterol. Fish such as salmon, trout, tuna, mackerel and herring contain an active ingredient called omega-3 fatty acids which has been proven to boost levels of good cholesterol. Olive oil. Although olive oil is a fat it is a monounsaturated fat which has been shown to both reduce bad cholesterol and boost
Moderate alcohol has been shown to increase HDL; however, it does not lower LDL. Fatty fish, such as salmon, tuna, trout, herring, sardines, and mackerel, contain omega-3 fatty acids, which have been shown to lower triglycerides, a type of fat in the bloodstream. Therefore, while there are foods that lower cholesterol and foods that lower heart disease risk, there are no foods that raise HDL. Types of foods that have heart benefits but do not affect HDL include: 1  Foods containing omega-3 fatty acids (such as fatty fish and dark, leafy greens).
Oats. Many studies now show that oats help to reduce the amounts of bad cholesterol in the body and boost good HDL cholesterol levels. This is because oats contain something called beta glucans, a fibre that dissolves and sticks to the walls of the intestine. This interferes with the absorption of bad cholesterol. Fish such as salmon, trout, tuna, mackerel and herring contain an active ingredient called omega-3 fatty acids which has been proven to boost levels of good cholesterol. Olive oil. Although olive oil is a fat it is a monounsaturated fat which has been shown to both reduce bad cholesterol and boost
Oatmeal. Fiber, especially soluble fiber, can help bump up your HDL while reducing LDL. Oatmeal is an excellent source of soluble fiber, as is rice, bran, barley, dried peas and beans, and certain fruits like prunes and apples. A couple servings a day of these heart-healthy foods can have a positive effect on your HDL. Olive oil is high in unsaturated fats and can help you elevate your HDL. Replace butter and fried foods with foods cooked lightly in a heart-healthy olive oil, and switch to an oil-based vinaigrette for your salads.
HDL (high density lipoprotein) is the good cholesterol. It acts like a cholesterol dump truck, gathering bad cholesterol from the arteries and carrying it back to the liver for clearance. This heart protective effect may even slow the buildup of plaque in the arterial walls of the heart. Olive oil is high in unsaturated fats and can help you elevate your HDL. Replace butter and fried foods with foods cooked lightly in a heart-healthy olive oil, and switch to an oil-based vinaigrette for your salads.
Low-density lipoprotein, or LDL cholesterol, is what you may know as bad cholesterol. High LDL levels can cause heart disease, hypertension and stroke. To lower your LDL levels, avoid foods with saturated fats. Having high levels of high-density lipoprotein, or HDL cholesterol, is healthy. HDL cholesterol helps remove LDL cholesterol from your blood, reducing your risk for disease. Increase your HDL levels by increasing your consumption of unsaturated fats, whole grains and plant-based foods
Certain foods have positive effects on HDL levels. High cholesterol is responsible for a build-up of plaque on arterial walls which causes blockages. This in turn elevates the risk for heart disease. However, a blockage is more closely related to how high your LDL, or low-density lipoprotein, levels are. On the other hand, high-density lipoprotein, or HDL, is actually good cholesterol which helps keep the arteries plaque-free. By adding certain foods to your diet, you can help improve these levels. The most important thing is to avoid foods that are high in saturated fat and cholesterol
Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol.