If the polling rate is set at 125 Hz, the mouse cursor can only be updated every 8 milliseconds. In situations where lag is critical (for example games), it is useful to decrease this value to as little as possible. The [polling interval] is a number in ms from the table above. For example, to set a polling rate of 500Hz: To change the polling rate without rebooting. Warning: Make sure that both commands execute otherwise you will be unable to use the mouse and keyboard and will have to reboot or ssh into your machine.
Posts: 2,455. 125hz or 1000hz polling rate for Razer Abyssus gaming mouse. Ok, on my last thread my Razer Abyssus mouse I also asked a question about the polling rate but I got no response so I have started this new thread. A issue I need addressing is the Polling Rates of the mouse. I have been searching for answers on google and have come up with mixed results. Im not sure what too use really, 125hz or 1000hz rate. Some say it safe to use, others say its not
(Redirected from Mouse Polling Rate). If you have invested in a high resolution mouse, adjusting the USB polling rate is a common trick to utilise the added precision it brings. The polling rate (or report rate) determines how often the mouse sends information to your computer. Measured in Hertz (Hz), this setting equates to lag time (in ms). The [polling interval] is a number in ms from the table above. For example, to set a polling rate of 500Hz: To change the polling rate without rebooting. Warning: Make sure that both commands execute otherwise you will be unable to use the mouse and keyboard and will have to reboot or ssh into your machine.
Polling Rate Explained. A mouse’s polling rate is how often it reports its position to a computer. Polling rate is measured in Hz. If a mouse has a 125 Hz polling rate, it’s reporting its position to the computer 125 times every second. In other words, 125 Hz polling rate means the mouse is reporting its position to the computer every 8 milliseconds. A higher polling rate could be useful, but the difference between 500 Hz and 1000 Hz will be hard to notice. A higher polling rate also uses more CPU resources, so setting the polling rate too high will just waste CPU resources for no benefit.
Polling rate can be defined as how often the device frequency that is connected to the USB port could send information to the computer, for example: If the polling rate of a certain mouse is 1 Hz, it would update the axes coordinate every second when it is moved. The Advantage of High Polling Rate. Gaming mouse usually has a higher polling rate than a standard mouse. The common polling rate of gaming mouse is about 250Hz, 500 Hz or 1000 Hz (click here to download Mouse Rate Checker). Gaming mice that its polling rate is 500 Hz will send data 500 times every second to the computer or each data is sent every 2ms
To decrease input lag you can increase the USB polling rate of the mouse. Many modern gaming mice support polling rates up to 1000 Hz which drastically reduces mouse lag in comparison with 125 Hz. Most gaming mice have adjustable polling through software or switches built into the hardware itself. Polling rate becomes increasingly important with higher frame rate displays. If you’re using a standard 60 Hz display and 125h Hz mouse polling the delay between frames would be 16.7 ms and the delay between mouse updates would be 8 ms.
If you use a higher polling rate you will have less delay between when you move your mouse and it moves on screen. When using a 125 Hz polling rate the mouse is being updated in intervals of 8 milliseconds. This means you have a potential of 0 to 8 ms of mouse lag added to every frame depending how long after the last mouse poll the frame begins rendering. Polling rate becomes increasingly important with higher frame rate displays. If you’re using a standard 60 Hz display and 125h Hz mouse polling the delay between frames would be 16.7 ms and the delay between mouse updates would be 8 ms.
So if you increase your polling rate from 500hz to 1000hz, it is doubling the number of times per second that data is being collected from the mouse, which would effectively increase the accuracy of your movements. This however increases the amount of processing power required to poll the mouse as well. 