Home treatment is usually all that is needed for a sore throat caused by a virus. These tips may help you feel better. 1  Gargle with warm salt water to help reduce swelling and relieve discomfort: 2  Gargle at least once each hour with 1 tsp (5 g) of salt dissolved in 8 fl oz (240 mL) of warm water.
No! Warm drinks, tend to help. Try coffee or tea, and if you do drink soda, drink ginger ale, and stir it up so the bubbles mix out. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Herbs as Natural Remedies for Sore Throat Sore throat is often accompanied by pain, swollen glands, and in some cases fever.
Salt Water. You can try gargling with 1/4 tsp. salt and 1 cup of warm water as one sore throat remedy. Dr. Thomas Weida, a professor, at Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center says you can try gargling with any fluid, but if your throat pain increases, you will need to stop.
Mix 1 to 2 teaspoons of baking soda in 1 cup of water and gargle for at least 30 seconds. Baking soda is an acid neutralizer, it can create an environment in the throat that is inhospitable to yeasts and other organisms in the throat. Like a salt gargle, repeat a baking soda gargle once per hour.
Calm a sore throat with baking soda for a natural remedy to an annoying ailment. A sore throat can be caused by the effects of an infection and the drainage that accompanies a cold or sinus problems.
If your sore throat is caused by a virus (such as the common cold) or causes other than bacteria, there is much you can do right at home to get rid of it quickly. The first thing you should do is reach for your jar of honey. Honey is a very good sore throat remedy.
Alternatively, gargle with a bicarbonate of soda solution, using half a teaspoon of bicarb dissolved in a glass of warm water. It will soothe the inflammation. A warm gargle made from sage tea will temporarily relieve the pain of a sore throat.
1 * Baking Soda & Salt: Mix 1/2 tsp of each baking soda and salt with a 1/2 cup of warm water. 2  Chamomile: Best to start sipping this tea as soon as you feel one coming on. 3  Hydrogen Peroxide: Gargle 3% hydrogen peroxide to fight the infection. 4  If the taste is too much for you, dilute with some water first (about 50/50).