An exotoxin is a toxin secreted by bacteria. An exotoxin can cause damage to the host by destroying cells or disrupting normal cellular metabolism. They are highly potent and can cause major damage to the host. Exotoxins may be secreted, or, similar to endotoxins, may be released during lysis of the cell. 
EXOTOXINS. Exotoxins are heat labile proteins that are secreted by some species of bacteria and diffuse readily into the surrounding medium. In contrast to endotoxins, which are integral part of bacteria; exotoxins are actively synthesized and released. 
endotoxin. a heat-stable toxin associated with the outer membranes of certain gram-negative bacteria, including Brucella, Neisseria, and Vibrio species. Endotoxins are not secreted but are released only when the cells are disrupted; they are less potent and less specific than the exotoxins; and they do not form toxoids. A toxin that forms an integral part of the cell wall of certain bacteria and is only released upon destruction of the bacterial cell. Endotoxins are less potent and less specific than most exotoxins and do not form toxoids. Also called intracellular toxin. en′do·tox′ic adj.
Endotoxins generally act in the vicinity of bacterial growth or presence. Exotoxins are usually secreted by bacteria and act at a site removed from bacterial growth. However, in some cases, exotoxins are only released by lysis of the bacterial cell. The cell-associated toxins are referred to as endotoxins and the extracellular diffusible toxins are referred to as exotoxins. Endotoxins are cell-associated substances that are structural components of bacteria. Most endotoxins are located in the cell envelope.
Endotoxin is a component of the cell wall in Gram negative bacteria. Specifically, endotoxin is a major component of the outside portion of the outer membrane of the Gram negative cell wall. Endotoxin is a very strong pyrogen and is considered a bacterial toxin. Endotoxin is a lipopolysaccharide (LPS). 
endotoxin. a heat-stable toxin associated with the outer membranes of certain gram-negative bacteria, including Brucella, Neisseria, and Vibrio species. Endotoxins are not secreted but are released only when the cells are disrupted; they are less potent and less specific than the exotoxins; and they do not form toxoids. en·do·tox·in. n. A toxin that forms an integral part of the cell wall of certain bacteria and is only released upon destruction of the bacterial cell. Endotoxins are less potent and less specific than most exotoxins and do not form toxoids. Also called intracellular toxin.
Information from CDC. Endotoxins, which occur in the outer membrane of certain gram-negative bacteria, are not secreted but are released only when the cells are disrupted or destroyed. Endotoxins are complex polysaccharide molecules that elicit an antigenic response, resulting in fever and altered resistance to bacterial infections. Endotoxin, a lipopolysaccharide found in the cell walls of gram-negative bacteria, may cause chills, fever, and systemic cardiovascular effects when infused into humans. The minimum level of endotoxin to cause pyrogenic activity is approximately 5 EU/kg body weight (4-6).
Toxins associated with bacteria cause damage directly by destroying tissues or indirectly by triggering an immune response that may be harmful. Endotoxins are a type of bacterial toxin that is located in the cell wall component of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria. Endotoxins are lipopolysacchride (LPS) complexes. They are heat stable and unlike exotoxins, which are secreted, endotoxins are not secreted and are associated with the cell wal