The food in Portugal is often filling, rich and full of flavor. It is very much like the food of the Mediterranean. The former colonies of Portugal contributed many different spices that include piri piri (small, spicy chili peppers), as well as cinnamon, black pepper, saffron and vanilla.
Eastern European traditional foods are one of the best parts of travel to Eastern Europe! - Fotosearch/Getty Images. Russian traditional foods include warm and cold soups, like borshch, which can be made in numerous ways, but always incorporates beets.
The cuisine of Eastern Europe is a blend of hearty peasant dishes -- groaning bowls of steaming dumplings, sauerkraut perfuming the air, beet soup striking a colorful pose -- with elegant gourmet offerings. In both comfort food and more complex dishes, the ingredients are always simple.
Austria. Austrian food is rich in texture and has a unique flavor. Austrian cuisine was influenced by the countries surrounding it. These countries are Germany, Hungary, and Italy. The most consumed meats in Austria are chicken, beef, and pork. Pastries, sweets, jams, and cakes are also Austrian favorites.
5 thoughts on “ Eastern European Food.. I have to say you are incredibly ignorant. I am from Romania. And we have a very rich and beautiful culture and a very tasty cuisine. From what I can tell you chose the worst plate of food in Eastern Europe and tried to make it look like the best.
European food has a distinct flavor and rich history. The food in Europe can be characterized by four categories: meats, sugar, cereals, and fats. Meats include tripe, fish, blood sausages, and wild game. Brought from India and the New World, cane sugar became a necessary ingredient in European recipes and foods.
FOOD SAFETY: OVERVIEW. The EU integrated approach to food safety aims to assure a high level of food safety, animal health, animal welfare and plant health within the European Union through coherent farm-to-table measures and adequate monitoring, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.