Abstract. Desiccant tablets including solid potassium formate are used to dry gas, especially in natural gas transmission lines. Preferred tablets comprise 1-4% potassium formate (most preferably 2-3%), up to 1% of a surfactant as a lubricant, and the balance desiccant salts, preferably calcium chloride. Images(4). An early patent to, Hutchinson, U.S. Pat. No. 2,804,940, suggests passing a partially dehydrated natural gas upwards through a bed of solid particulate deliquescent material such as calcium, magnesium, or lithium chloride, or mixtures of them.
Applications PELADOW ™ DG Calcium Chloride Briquettes are a cost-effective desiccant suitable for dehydration of a broad spectrum of hydrocarbon streams, including natural gas, propane, LPG, kerosene and diesel fuel. Conditions to avoid • Temperature ﬂ uctuations in the calcium chloride bed may lead to bridging and channeling.• Non-uniform hydrocarbon distribution may lead to channeling.• Entrainment of “free” water or brine into the calcium chloride bed may lead to plugging.
As the need for natural gas increases, calcium chloride dehydration can help to make some gas wells more profitable to operate gas from remote or offshore wellheads, gas of a low flow rate, or gas which is high in sulphur content may benefit from this dehydration. Abstract. Natural gas is an important source of energy. It is efficient, versatile and abundantly available. Calcium chloride (CaCl 2) dehydrator is the most common non-regenerative adsorption system in natural gas industry.
Patents. Desiccant tablets including solid potassium formate are used to dry gas, especially in natural gas transmission lines. Preferred tablets comprise 1-4% potassium formate (most preferably 2-3%), up to 1% of a surfactant as a lubricant, and the balance desiccant salts, preferably calcium chloride.... An early patent to, Hutchinson, U.S. Pat. No. 2,804,940, suggests passing a partially dehydrated natural gas upwards through a bed of solid particulate deliquescent material such as calcium, magnesium, or lithium chloride, or mixtures of them.
Hydrocarbon Dehydration. The hygroscopic properties (ability to attract water) of calcium chloride make it an effective desiccant for the removal of water from gas and liquid hydrocarbon streams such as natural gas, propane, kerosene and diesel fuel. Their almond shape allows for increased surface area contact with the hydrocarbon to enhance drying and support the flow of hydrocarbon through the drying bed. In contrast, drying beds filled with calcium chloride chips and chunks may produce a less uniform flow resulting in reduced drying performance.
Desiccant tablets including solid potassium formate are used to dry gas, especially in natural gas transmission lines. Preferred tablets comprise 1-4% potassium formate (most preferably 2-3%), up to 1% of a surfactant as a lubricant, and the balance desiccant salts, preferably calcium chloride. An early patent to, Hutchinson, U.S. Pat. No. 2,804,940, suggests passing a partially dehydrated natural gas upwards through a bed of solid particulate deliquescent material such as calcium, magnesium, or lithium chloride, or mixtures of them.
While solid bed natural gas dehydrators using calcium chloride desiccants are simple to operate and provide gas outlet dew points suitable for many gas drying applications, there will be performance limits based on inlet conditions, and the outlet humidity will vary with time. The time can be several hours to several weeks depending on the size of the bed and the inlet conditions of the gas. The bed will continue to decrease and settle downward until it is several feet in depth and the hydrate is progressing to CaCl2•6H2O (hexahydrate).
Advances in formulation, material blending, tableting, and equipment design have expanded the application range of Calcium Chloride desiccants. Desiccants such as Peladow DG available from Premier Chemicals limited are now used to dry sales gas, fuel gas, sour gas, “peak” gas, and for hydrate control. As gas flowed through the calcium chloride, it would find the easiest path, and bypass the rest of the bed. Once started, this process would accelerate the calcium chloride consumption in this flow zone, and a channel would form through the calcium chloride bed.
PELADOW™ DG Calcium Chloride Briquettes act as a calcium chloride desiccant suitable for dehydration of a broad spectrum of hydrocarbon streams, including natural gas, propane, kerosene and diesel fuel. Find material safety data sheets (MSDS) in other languages. 
1. Calcium chloride (CaCl 2) can be used as a consumable desiccant to dehydrate natural gas [1] . Solid calcium chloride combines with water to form a brine solution. Fig. 1 shows a typical Calcium chloride (CaCl 2) dehydration column. Abstract. Natural gas is an important source of energy. It is efficient, versatile and abundantly available. Calcium chloride (CaCl 2) dehydrator is the most common non-regenerative adsorption system in natural gas industry.