Redwood Types. There are actually three types of tree that can be known by the term Redwood. The main one featured in these pages is the one known as the Giant Redwood, or Wellingtonia. Its true scientific name is Sequoiadendron giganteum. Next is the Coast Redwood, or Sequoia sempervirens.
Giant sequoias are the world's largest single trees and largest living thing by volume. Giant sequoias grow to an average height of 50–85 m (164–279 ft) and 6–8 m (20–26 ft) in diameter. Record trees have been measured to be 94.8 m (311 ft) in height and over 17 m (56 ft) in diameter. The oldest known giant sequoia based on ring count is 3,500 years old. 
Sequoia sempervirens /sɨˈkɔɪ.ə sɛmpərˈvaɪərənz/ is the sole living species of the genus Sequoia in the cypress family Cupressaceae (formerly treated in Taxodiaceae). Common names include coast redwood, coastal redwood and California redwood. Trees over 200 feet (60 m) are common, and many are over 300 ft (90 m). The current tallest tree is the Hyperion tree, measuring 379.3 ft (115.61 m). The tree was discovered in Redwood National Park during the summer of 2006 by Chris Atkins and Michael Taylor, and is thought to be the world's tallest living organism.
The bark of the Coast Redwood is similar to the Giant Redwood in that it is grows thick, and although relatively soft compared to most trees, it is a little firmer or harder. This affords it the same protection against fire as the Giant Redwood. The main one featured in these pages is the one known as the Giant Redwood, or Wellingtonia. Its true scientific name is Sequoiadendron giganteum. Next is the Coast Redwood, or Sequoia sempervirens.
Scientists classify redwoods according to the rules of taxonomy. The discipline within biology concerned with classifying living things, including redwoods, is taxonomy. It’s a difficult and inexact science encompassing different camps that often disagree. Fortunately, there is some solid ground in the form of a general hierarchy that is widely accepted. This scheme features seven levels of classification. They are, in descending order: Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus and Species.
The coast redwood, the world's tallest tree, is one of the three sequoia tree species, together with the giant sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum) and the dawn redwood (Metasequoia glyptostroboides) . The largest populations are in Jedediah Smith Redwoods State Park (Del Norte County), Redwood National Park and Humboldt Redwoods State Park (Humboldt County). Hyperion, the world's tallest living tree, is a coast redwood and is no less than 379.1 ft (115.55 m) tall! Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endlicher 1847. Synonynms Taxodium sempervirens D. Don in Lambert 1824 (Watson 1993), Sequoia sempervirens (Lambert) Endlicher (Peattie 1950)
Redwood (Sequoia sempervirens), also called coast redwood and California redwood, is native to the central and northern California coast, a region of moderate to heavy winter rain and summer fog so vital to this tree. It is one of three important North American trees of the family Taxodiaceae. Redwood is a principal species in only one forest cover type, Redwood (Society of American Foresters Type 232) (42), but is found in three other Pacific Coast types, Pacific Douglas-Fir (Type 229), Port-Orford-Cedar (Type 231), and Douglas-Fir-Tanoak-Pacific Madrone (Type 234).
Classification of Sequoia sempervirens. D omain: Eukarya is one of the three domains into which all organisms are classified. Eukarya refers to organisms whose cells are organized into complex structures surrounded by membranes. The presence of a nucleus is what separates eukaryotic cells from prokaryotic cells. Species: The species Sequoia sempervirens was named for the Georgian Indian tribal chief who invented the Cherokee alphabet. The Latin word sempervirens means always green, or evergreen.. Common names for this species include Coast redwood and California redwood.
Although several species of redwood (Sequoia) once spread across the globe, long-term climate changes have reduced their numbers and their range. Now, only one species exists, Sequoia sempervirens, and it occupies a narrow band along the west coast of North America, from southwestern Oregon to Monterey, California. Two other trees are commonly confused with redwoods, but each is a separate genus: giant sequoia, Sequoiadendron, and dawn redwood, Metasequoia. Prior to the formation of the Cascades, when the Pacific Northwest's climate was warmer and wetter, all three redwoods grew here. 