A legend of the untamed American frontier, the Apache leader Geronimo was born in June 1829 in No-Doyohn Canyon, Mexico. He was a naturally gifted hunter, who, the story goes, as a boy swallowed the heart of his first kill in order to ensure a life of success on the chase.
Born June 16, 1829, Geronimo was the son of Tablishim and Juana of the Bedonkohe band of the Apache. Geronimo was raised according to Apache tradition and lived along the Gila River in present-day Arizona. Upon coming of age, he married Alope of the Chiricauhua Apache and the couple had three children.
Geronimo was born in southern Arizona, present-day Clifton, and given the name Goyathlay, meaning one who yawns.. The Mexicans later gave him the name Geronimo, which is Spanish for Jerome.
Geronimo was born to the Bedonkohe band of the Apache, near Turkey Creek, a tributary of the Gila River in the modern-day state of New Mexico, then part of Mexico, though the Apache disputed Mexico's claim.
Introduction. Apache chief Geronimo (1829-1909) was born in the upper Gila River country of Arizona. Although he harbored animosity toward the Mexican soldiers who killed his wife and children, he also grew to dislike the Anglo-Americans who took over the region following the 1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
Geronimo was born in June of 1829 near the headwater of the Gila River near the present-day city of Clifton, Arizona. His birth name was Goyakla which means to yawn. He was born into the Bedonkohe band of Apache. His grandfather, Mahko, was an Apache chief, a peace-loving man.
Geronimo {jur-ahn'-i-moh}, or Goyathlay (one who yawns), was born in 1829 in what is today western New Mexico, but was then still Mexican territory. He was a Bedonkohe Apache (grandson of Mahko) by birth and a Net'na during his youth and early manhood.
Sarah Asher Geronimo was born on July 25, 1988 to Father Delfin Geronimo, a retired PLDT employee, and mother Divina, who used to run a beauty parlor in their house at Sta. Cruz, Manila. Sarah is the third of four children with siblings Johna Rizzie, Sunshine Grace, and Ezekiel Gabriel.