Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The silencer ring, or ported shroud, is a stamped aluminum insert in the compressor inlet of a ported turbo. If you look into the throat of your turbo, you'll see a little slot just below the tops of the compressor blades. this slot bypasses some of the air to prevent surging (blade stall) under load. The ring smoothly redirects this air (that is now flowing backwards to the fresh inlet stream) back into the inlet.
I took off the tube going to the silencer ring, I was going to remove it after reading some posts about it, then after looking at it, it seems it is designed as a radiused air inlet into the blades for the turbo I would ... Some folks have experienced a slight reduction in boost pressure and even turbo bark with the removal of the silencer ring. It helps direct the air over the impellers on the turbo, and the only real advantage of its removal is you hear the turbo sing.
just for future readers. the turbo silencer ring is located inside the holset turbo on all year cummins motors. the silencer ring is located just inside the turbo and is held in by a snap ring. Posted: 02/09/09 10:54 PM. You can damage your turbo if youre not careful when removing the ring. However, if you're patient and follow the instructions for removal then its not a problem. And you won't cause any damage by having it removed, it just makes more turbo noise ..... which is a good thing.
Some negative thoughts on removing the turbo silencer ring... I just saw some pics on nickoleinoens photo page. http://community.webshots.com/user/nickleinonen/1. He has a pic on there of a Holset turbo without the silencer ring and with it. I know alot of you guys are pulling the rings out. Then, just put a bead of super glue on it and it was good to go. Did that almost 6K miles ago and no problems with it. I also removed the white elbow in the lower half and the the silencer ring as well. The ring is the first thing I removed and I noticed a difference in the Turbo howl.
I've been doing some research on removing the silencer ring in the Holset HX35 turbo on my 24 valve 5.9 liter Cummins 6cyl. I'll probably take it out tomorrow evening and post the results in here. 
After I removed the baffles in the intake tube the turbo noise became very noticable. However, I didn't try putting the silencer ring back in after removing the baffles to see which component was doing the most at reducing turbo noise. After removing the silencer ring I noticed no change in performance. Power or MPG. Then, just put a bead of super glue on it and it was good to go. Did that almost 6K miles ago and no problems with it. I also removed the white elbow in the lower half and the the silencer ring as well. The ring is the first thing I removed and I noticed a difference in the Turbo howl.
Posts: 16. iTrader: (0). silencer ring, remove or not. I took off the tube going to the silencer ring, I was going to remove it after reading some posts about it, then after looking at it, it seems it is designed as a radiused air inlet into the blades for the turbo. Some folks have experienced a slight reduction in boost pressure and even turbo bark with the removal of the silencer ring. It helps direct the air over the impellers on the turbo, and the only real advantage of its removal is you hear the turbo sing.
Report Abuse. The turbo silencer ring goes in the intake, and reduces the annoying whistle a turbo makes. For about $500 you can order a part that doesn't have the silencer from Speed and Truck world, and spend another $45 for an adapter. If you look into the throat of your turbo, you'll see a little slot just below the tops of the compressor blades. this slot bypasses some of the air to prevent surging (blade stall) under load. The ring smoothly redirects this air (that is now flowing backwards to the fresh inlet stream) back into the inlet.
I know everyone says removing the silencer ring does not affect anything... BUT.. is there actual study on this... The HX35 is a really popular turbo on M50B25 and M20B25 BMW Turbo projects, and i have one guy telling me his dyno went down 18hp ... JOIN NOW TO REMOVE TRACER. The HX35 is a really popular turbo on M50B25 and M20B25 BMW Turbo projects, and i have one guy telling me his dyno went down 18hp with removing the silencer ring? Is this fictional or real ???