An injury to the elbow, such as a fall on an outstretched arm or elbow, can cause dislocation or a fracture. Dislocation occurs when a bone moves from its usual position, and a fracture happens when a bone cracks or breaks. Ligament problems can occur in any of the ligaments located in the elbow joint. Ligament sprains and strains can occur due to trauma or as a result of repeated stress. The ligament may be stretched, partially torn, or completely torn. Sometimes you’ll hear a popping noise upon injury.
As the lower the weight again, instead of resisting the weight on the locking arm, the subject will actually push on the handle. The arm will push through the locking position, and the elbow will usually pop. The Drop. This procedure is a last resort. It is used only when the other options do not help. I do not advise its use with experienced clients, as their levels of resistance would not be appropriate for this. I have heard an explanation that does make some sense: Between the bones of the elbow joint is a bursa sac filled with sinovial fluid that cushions and lubricates the joint. The fluid moves around the sac to cushion the joint depending on the movement.
Elbow Disorder Basics. If you have elbow pain, a number of disorders could be the culprit. Overuse and sports injuries cause many elbow conditions. For example, golfers, baseball pitchers, tennis players, and boxers often have elbow disorders. Elbow disorders may involve arm muscles, elbow ligaments, tendons, and bones in the arm. Ligament problems can occur in any of the ligaments located in the elbow joint. Ligament sprains and strains can occur due to trauma or as a result of repeated stress. The ligament may be stretched, partially torn, or completely torn. Sometimes you’ll hear a popping noise upon injury.
This is what gives the subject the sensation that the elbow has “locked up”. This usually occurs on the negative portion of the repetition, and usually in the first stages of a training program. As the subject strength increases, the weight becomes significant, the problem is less frequent and will usually disappear. I have heard an explanation that does make some sense: Between the bones of the elbow joint is a bursa sac filled with sinovial fluid that cushions and lubricates the joint. The fluid moves around the sac to cushion the joint depending on the movement.
1 You have signs of nerve or blood vessel damage, such as: 2  Numbness, tingling, or a pins-and-needles feeling. 3  Skin that is pale, white, or blue, or feels colder than the skin on the limb that is not hurt. 4  Not being able to move the limb normally because of weakness, not just pain. 1 You have severe pain. 2  You have a lot of swelling within 30 minutes of the injury. 3  Swelling and pain do not improve after 2 days of home treatment. 4  You have signs of infection after an injury. 5  These may include increased pain, swelling, warmth, and redness; red streaks leading from the area; and fever.
Has anybody else ever experienced a locked arm/elbow. I do a lot of swimming and woke up with what felt like a sore muscle in my upper arm. (I immediately thought it was swimmers elbow). By nightfall, the arm was in a locked position. I've since seen my family physician who thought it was possibly cellulitis.
When the elbow is loose and repeatedly feels as if it might slip out of place, it is called recurrent or chronic elbow instability. Anatomy. Your elbow is made up of your upper arm bone (humerus) and the two bones in your forearm (radius and ulna). On the inner and outer sides of the elbow, strong ligaments (collateral ligaments) hold the elbow joint together and work to prevent dislocation. Recurrent elbow instability may cause locking, catching, or clicking of the elbow. You may also have a sense of the elbow feeling like it might pop out of place. This feeling commonly occurs while pushing off from a chair.
Elbow instability is a looseness in the elbow joint that may cause the joint to catch, pop, or slide out of place during certain arm movements. It most often occurs as a result of an injury — typically, an elbow dislocation. Recurrent elbow instability may cause locking, catching, or clicking of the elbow. You may also have a sense of the elbow feeling like it might pop out of place. This feeling commonly occurs while pushing off from a chair.
You are describing your elbow subluxating (partially dislocating). My elbows don't do this, but my knees do. When a joint is in that painful, stuck position, it is subluxated until it returns to it's normal position. Whether your doctors know this can happen or not, that is what is happening. My elbow gets stuck. When it's been bent and I try to straighten it it just stops, it hurts and I can't straighten it any further without considerable effort and pain or by pushing it straight with my other hand. It's happened in a few different situations.