noun. A non-renewable natural resource or source of energy: sustainability of the supply of non-renewables such as gas is crucial. More example sentences. 1  Perhaps I shouldn't have cancelled the air-conditioning to cut our use of non-renewables. 
Renewable and non-renewable energy resources. All life on earth is sustained by energy from the sun. Plants and animals can store energy and some of this energy remains with them when they die. Some resources can be thought of as both renewable and non-renewable. 1  Wood can be used for fuel and is renewable if trees are replanted. 2  Biomass, which is material from living things, can be renewable if plant
Definition of Renewable Energy. There is much debate about how to define and distinguish renewable energy from non-renewable, and the terms and definitions chosen can have huge impacts on policy and regulatory efforts aiming to promote clean energy resources. 
nonrenewable. adjective. 1  That cannot be renewed: a nonrenewable license. 2  Of or relating to an energy source, such as oil or natural gas, or a natural resource, such as a metallic ore, that is not replaceable after it has been used. 
Non-renewable resource. Definition. noun. A type of natural resource that cannot be replenished or takes time for nature to produce or replenish in order to sustain the rate of consumption. Supplement. Example of non-renewable resource is the fossil fuel. Depending on the rate of use a renewable resource may also become a non-renewable such as the consumption of water. 
renewable. adj contract, licence etc → erneuerbar, verlaengerbar; verlängerbar, passport bill of → exchange; verlaengerbar, verlängerbar → energy; (= resource erneuerbar must) → be renewed/zu; erneuern verlaengern verlängern some library books → are Not renewable einige bibliotheksbuecher bibliotheksbücher. koennen können nicht verlaengert verlängert werden re·new·a·ble. adj. 1. Capable of being renewed: a renewable membership; renewable subscriptions. 2. Relating to or being a commodity or resource, such as solar energy or firewood, that is inexhaustible or replaceable by new growth. re·new′a·bil′i·ty (-bĭl′ĭ-tē) n. re·new′a·bly adv.
Definition. A natural resource such as coal, gas, or oil that, once consumed, cannot be replaced. Most energy resources currently in use are non-renewable while the renewable ones (such as wind and solar power) are not well developed. 
non·re·new·a·ble. adj. 1. That cannot be renewed: a nonrenewable license. 2. 
Examples of RENEWABLE. 1  a renewable life insurance policy. 2  Forests are renewable natural resources, but they must be treated with care. 3  Wind and water are renewable fuel sources. 