Warts are local growths in the skin that are caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. There are over 100 types of HPVs. Some HPV types infect the genital and oral mucosa and produce large, unpleasant masses, some of which may become cancerous. 
Warts Overview. Patient Comments Share Your Story. Warts are small harmless tumors of the skin caused by a virus called the human papillomavirus. The appearance of warts can differ based on the type of wart and where it is located on the body. Most warts are well defined, with skin thickening. 
A plantar wart also known as veruca, myrmecia and veruca plantaris is a wart caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) occurring on the sole (Latin planta) or toes of the foot. HPV infections in other locations are not plantar; see human papillomavirus. 
About Warts. Warts are non-cancerous (benign) skin growths caused by viruses that develop on different parts of the body and can take on various forms. They are contagious and very common: Almost everyone has a wart at some point in their life. Warts can affect people at any age, but are most common among children and young people. Viral warts are a common skin disease, most frequently affecting the hands and feet, caused by the human papilloma virus. While warts are not harmful and usually go away in time without any treatment, they can be unsightly and painful. Warts on the soles of the feet are also called 'plantar warts' or 'verrucas'.
1 Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 4  Warts respond variably to a variety of treatment measures. Wart facts. 1  Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years.
This topic has information about warts on any part of the body except the genitals. For information about warts on the genitals, see the topic Genital Warts. A wart is a skin growth caused by some types of the virus called the human papillomavirus (HPV) . HPV infects the top layer of skin, usually entering the body in an area of broken skin. The virus causes the top layer of skin to grow rapidly, forming a wart. Most warts go away on their own within months or years. Warts are usually painless. But a wart that grows in a spot where you put pressure, such as on a finger or on the bottom of the foot, can be painful. A doctor usually can tell if a skin growth is a wart just by looking at it. Your doctor may take a sample of the wart and look at it under a microscope (a skin biopsy).
A wart is typically a small growth that appears on a person's hands or feet and looks like a solid blister or a small cauliflower. They may also appear on other parts of the body. Warts have a rough texture and are caused by viruses, particularly one of several kinds of HPV (human papillomavirus). The virus causes keratin, which is a hard protein on the top layer of the skin, to grow too fast. Warts are not the same as moles.
Warts are raised bumps on your skin caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Warts have plagued humans for thousands of years—they have been discovered on 3,000-year-old mummies and were mentioned by Shakespeare. Plantar warts grow on the soles of the feet. Unlike other warts, plantar warts grow into your skin, not out of it. You can tell if you have a plantar wart if you notice what appears to be a small hole in the bottom of your foot that is surrounded by hardened skin. Plantar warts can make walking uncomfortable.