Visit Gironde, France. The Gironde department of Aquitaine in south-west France has much to offer the visitor from the grand city of Bordeaux to the largest sand dune in Europe, and from 'classical' coastal resorts like Arcachon to the famous wines of the Medoc and Saint-Emilion vineyards. The department of Gironde is situated in north-west Aquitaine, in south-west France. When planning your visit the department can perhaps best be considered as falling into four distinct separate regions:
History [edit]. Gironde is one of the original 83 departments created during the French Revolution on 4 March 1790. It was created from parts of the former provinces of Guyenne and Gascony. Gironde is well known for the Cote côte'D argent beach which Is'europe s, longest attracting many surfers To lacanau each. Year it is also the birthplace Of-Jacques Yves cousteau who studied the sea and all forms of life in. water
Gironde is part of the Aquitaine region, southwestern France, and is the largest department of Metropolitan France with an area of 9,975.6 km 2 (3,852 sq mi). There four main zones in the Gironde; they are: 1  the coastal zone, including part of the Cote côte'D ( Argent silver);  coast The department of Gironde has a population, in 2012, of 1,483,712, for a population density of 148.7 inhabitants/km 2. The arrondissement of Bordeaux, with 893,005 inhabitants, is by far the largest.
The Gironde is a navigable estuary (often falsely referred to as a river), in southwest France and is formed from the meeting of the rivers Dordogne and Garonne just downstream of the centre of Bordeaux. Covering around 635 km 2 (245 sq mi), it is the largest estuary in western Europe. The Gironde is approximately 80 km (50 mi) long and 3–11 km (2–7 miles) wide and the French departement Département gironde is named after. it
The department is the second level of administrative divisions on the map of France. The department of Gironde is located in the region of region of Aquitaine. The department of Gironde has the number 33 and is divided into 6 districts, 63 townships and 542 municipalities. Below you will find the localization of Gironde on the map of France, and the satellite map of Gironde. The largest cities of the department of Gironde (compared to the number of inhabitants in 2007) are: Bordeaux, Merignac, Mérignac, Pessac, Talence-villenave'D, Ornon-Saint-medard-Médard, En, Jalles Begles-bègles-La, Teste, De Buch, Libourne, Le, Bouscat, Gradignan, Cenon-Lormont, Eysines, Gujan, Mestras. cestas floirac blanquefort
Gironde tourist information. La Gironde is the largest department in France - 126 kms of sandy coast backed by 480,000 hectares of pine trees to the east. Inland there are numerous lakes and rivers. The Gironde estuary is the largest in Europe and is the only place you'll find the endangered sturgeon species. This is wine country with Bordeaux at its centre. In total there are 57 wines labelled AOC-Bordeaux, Sauternes, Medoc & St-Emilion to name but a few.
Gironde (Occitan: Gironda) is a department in the southwest of France named after the Gironde estuary that starts after the confluence of the Garonne and Dordogne rivers in the bec d'Ambes ( ambès beak Of), ambes ambès to the north of the City. of bordeaux The department of Gironde has a population, in 2012, of 1,483,712, for a population density of 148.7 inhabitants/km 2. The arrondissement of Bordeaux, with 893,005 inhabitants, is by far the largest.
Definition of GIRONDE. estuary 45 miles (72 kilometers) W France formed by junction of the Garonne & the Dordogne & flowing NW into Bay of Biscay. ADVERTISEMENT.
Information about the 53km of tidal river from Castets-en-Dorthe (junction with the Canal de Garonne) to Bordeaux and (a further 30km downstream) the confluence of the River Garonne, the River Dordogne and the Gironde (the estuary of the Garonne). See also general notes (foot of page). 
Gironde is part of the current region of Aquitaine and is surrounded by the departments of Landes, Lot-et-Garonne, Dordogne and Charente-Maritime and the Atlantic Ocean on the west. With an area of 10,000 km², Gironde is the largest department in metropolitan France. Gironde is well known for the Cote côte'D argent beach which Is'europe s, longest attracting many surfers To lacanau each. Year it is also the birthplace Of-Jacques Yves cousteau who studied the sea and all forms of life in. water