The general rule of thumb is, the first $200 you earn in a month from employment does not affect your ODSP. For every dollar earned above the $200 a month reduces your ODSP by 50 cents. In other words, if you earned $300 in a month, you can expect that the first $200 does not reduce your ODSP. After that, his ODSP is reduced by 50 cents for every dollar he earns above and beyond the $200. For example, if he receives $6000 in net income the first $200 does not affect his ODSP, leaving $5800 that will affect his income, which will reduce his ODSP by $2900 for the month.
The Ontario Disability Support Program (ODSP) provides income and employment support to people with disabilities. Every person has the right to apply for ODSP. If your application is approved, you will receive income support as long as you are eligible. The amount depends on your family size, your needs and your income. 
If you are a single person, you can have up to $5000 in assets and still be able to get income support. If you have a spouse, the limit is $7500 and it increases by $500 for every child in your family. If you live with a disability or you are helping a friend look for financial support, consider Income Support through the Ontario Disability Support Program (ODSP) . This article provides information about the types of support available, who can get financial support, and how to app
November 2011 Page 5 of 25 recovery has reduced the overpayment to $2.50 or less, recovery continues until the overpayment is reduced to zero. Recovery of Arrears Effective April 1, 1999 the Director may recover up to 100% of income support arrears owing to a recipient in order to recover an overpayment. No recovery or notification takes place if the overpayment amount established is $2.50 or less. Recovery commences once the overpayment amount is $2.51 or over and continues until the balance is zero. Notice must be given to the recipient of the amount of the overpayment and the period for which it was incurred.
Repaying any overpayment. An overpayment is money that you received that you were not eligible to receive. You are responsible for repaying an overpayment, even after you leave the Ontario Disability Support Program or Ontario Works. Ontario.ca Francais. Français when you apply for or Receive Income support from The Ontario Disability Support (PROGRAM), odsp you and any adult family members are responsible: for
November 2011 Page 14 of 25 1 *If no voluntary payments are made, the case is referred to the ORU at 60 days for collection. If there is no response to the collection efforts, the ORU will refer the overpayment to the CRA RSO Program. Write-off 2 $500 - or more Write-off 3. November 2011 Page 15 of 25 Summary of when a Debt may be recommended for Write-off 1. Debts less than $20 may be recommended for write-off once they are 120 days of age. No recovery or notification takes place if the overpayment amount established is $2.50 or less. Recovery commences once the overpayment amount is $2.51 or over and continues until the balance is zero. Notice must be given to the recipient of the amount of the overpayment and the period for which it was incurred.
With a fraud overpayment, you are assessed a penalty in the amount of 30 percent of the amount of the overpayment and a false statement disqualification of 5 to 23 weeks. Fraud overpayments and penalties must be repaid. If you have an UI overpayment and would like more information on the overpayment balance and how to pay benefit overpayments, call the EDD Benefit Overpayment Collection Section at 1-800-676-5737. NOTE: Repaying an overpayment does not remove a disqualification. Call EDD for more information
ODSP is the Ontario Disability Support Program. Basically, it's social assistance for the disabled-the differences being that it gives them more money than Ontario Works (though still not a whole lot), and they aren't expected to look for work. His share of the rent was $444, and ODSP reimbursed him for that by way of a shelter allowance. He then received an offer of public housing at a rate of only $139 per month...but his friend asked him not to move out until he found a new roommate, because the friend couldn't handle the full rent on his own.