Adaptation is, first of all, a process, rather than a part of a body. An internal parasite (such as a liver fluke) can illustrate the distinction: such a parasite may have a very simple bodily structure, but nevertheless the organism is highly adapted to its specific environment. Seen like this, adaptation is a genetic tracking process, which goes on all the time to some extent, but especially when the population cannot or does not move to another, less hostile area. Also, to a greater or lesser extent, the process affects every species in a particular ecosystem.
Medical Definition of ACCLIMATION. : acclimatization especially by physiological adjustment of an organism to environmental change. 
noun adaptation, accommodation, adjustment, naturalization, acculturation, habituation, familiarization, acclimation, inurement Acclimatization to higher altitudes may take several weeks. acclimatization. n → Akklimatisierung f (→ to an +acc), → Akklimatisation f (→ to an +acc); (to new surroundings etc also) → Gewoehnung gewöhnung (→ f to +an). acc
Physiologic adaptation to a variation in environmental factors such as temperature, climate, or altitude. Synonym(s): acclimatisation. adjustment of physiological processes in response to a change from the accustomed environment: to heat or cold, or to high altitude. Mentioned in? 1  acclimate. 2  acclimation. 3  acclimatisation. 4  acclimatization to heat. 5  Aerosome. 6  altitude acclimatization. 7  altitude sickness. 8  altitude training. 9  aviation physiology. 10  chronic mountain sickness. 11  cold. 12  cold hemagglutinin disease. 13  cold injury. 14  cold storage. 15  cold stress. 16  cold therapy. 17  fluid balance. 18  haematocrit. 19  heat
Acclimatization. Acclimatization, or acclimation in English-speaking countries other than the US, is the process in which an individual organism adjusts to a gradual change in its environment, allowing it to maintain performance across a range of environmental conditions. acclimatization (Noun). The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new climate, or the state of being so inured. acclimatization (Noun). The climatic adaptation of an organism that has been moved to a new environment.
One good example of adaptation is the camel and its ability to survive for long periods of time in the desert with very little water. Acclimation is a form of adaptation that an organism undergoes when transferred to a different habitat. It doesn’t take as long as evolutionary adaptation and it doesn’t affect the body composition of the entire species. As a result of this intrusion, any organism crossing boundaries either needs to adapt or acclimate itself to its new surroundings. Adaptation and acclimation are two terms commonly used to describe the adjustment done by either a plant or animal when it goes beyond its normal habitat.
Summary: 1. Adaptation is a change in both physical and chemical composition of an organism brought about by habitat changes, while acclimation is a physical reaction made in order to adjust to said changes. 2. Adaptation is permanent, while acclimation is temporary. As a result of this intrusion, any organism crossing boundaries either needs to adapt or acclimate itself to its new surroundings. Adaptation and acclimation are two terms commonly used to describe the adjustment done by either a plant or animal when it goes beyond its normal habitat.
the adaptation of organisms to new conditions of existence. Although acclimatization literally means adaptation to the climate, the term has long been used to designate adaptation of the organism not, only to new climatic conditions but also to soil conditions and new biocenoses. Acclimatization can occur in either of two ways: (1) By changing the metabolism of organisms. Success in acclimatization depends on the selection of subjects and the length of time over which acclimatization is carried out. Natural selection of those individuals most completely adapted to unusual conditions of existence takes place in the new environment.
Acclimation occurs in a short period of time (days to weeks), and within the organism's lifetime (compare to adaptation). This may be a discrete occurrence or may instead represent part of a periodic cycle, such as a mammal shedding heavy winter fur in favor of a lighter summer coat. Acclimatization to high altitude continues for months or even years after initial ascent, and ultimately enables humans to survive in an environment that, without acclimatization, would kill them.