Mediterranean nations are the European countries on the Mediterranean Basin : Portugal, Spain, France, Monaco, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, and Malta and the British territory of Gibraltar. Groupings by compass directions are the hardest to define in Europe, since there are a few calculations of the midpoint of Europe (among other issues), and the pure geographical criteria of east and west are often confused with the political meaning these words acquired during the Cold War Era.
The countries of northern Europe include the United Kingdom of Great Britain (England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland), the Republic of Ireland (now a sovereign country), and France. The northern European diet generally consists of a large serving of meat, poultry, or fish, accompanied by small side dishes of vegetables and starch. The traditional diet is high in protein, primarily from meat and dairy products.
Best Answer: Europe consists of 47 independent countries. http://www.coe.int/T/e/com/about_coe/mem... But there is actually not an exact answer. Some sources consider the island of Cyprus belonging geographical to Asia, although it is a member of the Europian Union (EU) and the European Economic Area (EEA). Taking that into consideration Europe would consists of 46 independent states (with Cyprus to be 47). If Kazakhstan, Russia and Turkey really count to Europe is questionable, but part of their homeland is in Europe and they are members of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). 
The United Nations Statistics Division considers Western Europe to consist of the following nine countries. Austria Belgium France Germany Liechtenstein Luxembourg Monaco Netherlands Switzerland The United Nations defines Northern Europe as including the following countries and dependent regions. This is Western Europe ONLY! I don't know all of them and it is making it very hard to label my map. Here's what I already have. Norway, Sweden, Finland, Ireland, England, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, France, Spain, Portugal, Greece, and Italy. That's only 14 so far.
Countries that have adopted the Euro as their currency. Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Spain. Groupings by compass directions are the hardest to define in Europe, since there are a few calculations of the midpoint of Europe (among other issues), and the pure geographical criteria of east and west are often confused with the political meaning these words acquired during the Cold War Era.
Europe (/ˈjʊərəp/ or /ˈjɜrəp/) is a continent that comprises the westernmost part of Eurasia. Europe is bordered by the Arctic Ocean to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south. Europe is the world's second-smallest continent by surface area, covering about 10,180,000 square kilometres (3,930,000 sq mi) or 2% of the Earth's surface and about 6.8% of its land area.
What the Experts Say. The UN defines Eastern Europe as consisting of the following 10 countries: Belarus, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, and the Ukraine. 
What is a European Facial. There are many different types of facials, the European being perhaps the most common. A European facial at ESI consists of a cleanse, exfoliation, extraction, steam, and massage. In the cleansing phase of European Facials a cleanser is applied to the skin to get rid of surface impurities. Then your skin is analyzed. 