Frost. Frost is a form of ice and can only survive at temperatures of 32 degrees Fahrenheit and below. But that doesn’t mean the measured air temperature must be 32 or below for frost to form on a surface. Frost formation on grass is possible in any location in which the blades’ temperature falls to 32 or below, including warm weather states such as Florida, California and Arizona. For example, overnight frost may form on an Arizona course on days when the high temperature reaches 70.
Frost forms in much the same way as dew forms. Frost usually forms when a surface cools through loss of infrared radiation to a temperature which is colder than the dewpoint of the air next to the surface, AND the temperature of that surface is below freezing (32 deg F, or 0 deg. C). The source of this moisture is water vapor contained in the air. The heaviest coatings of frost usually do not occur at the coldest temperatures because very cold air can not hold very much water vapor. Instead, thick deposits of frost usually occur when the air temperature is close to 32 deg. F (0 deg.
Now frost is a covering of ice crystals on the surface produced by the depositing of water vapor to a surface cooler than 0° C (32° F). The deposition occurs when the temperature of the surface falls below the frost point. Similarly, dew forms when the air or surface temperature falls below the dew point temperature. Thus, if the temperature on the ground or an object such as a bush or a car windshield near the ground falls below the frost point, frost crystals may form. But the measured  surface temperature  may still be above freezing.
Frost forms when the temperature of a solid surface in the open cools to below the freezing point of water and for the most clearly crystalline forms of frost in particular, below the frost point in still air. Frost is the coating or deposit of ice that may form in humid air in cold conditions, usually overnight. In temperate climates it most commonly appears as fragile white crystals or frozen dew drops near the ground, but in cold climates it occurs in a greater variety of forms.
Frost may occur overnight, but it often forms at sunrise, before the temperature begins to rise. Frost formation on grass is possible in any location in which the blades’ temperature falls to 32 or below, including warm weather states such as Florida, California and Arizona. For example, overnight frost may form on an Arizona course on days when the high temperature reaches 70.
Dew Point Temperature and Frost Point Temperature. The temperature at which the change of state occurs as the air is cooled is called the dew point temperature when the change of state occurs at a temperature above freezing or the frost point temperature when the change of state occurs at a temperature below freezing. Whether dew or frost will form is determined by two factors: 1  If the amount of moisture in the air causes the condensation temperature to be above or below freezing and. 2  If the temperature will cool to the condensation t
Frost or freezing occurs when the temperature of air falls below the freezing point of water (0 °C, 32 °F, 273.15 K). This is usually measured at the height of 1.2 m above the ground surface. There is a rather subjective scale to show several degrees of frost severity: 1  slight frost: 0 to −3.5 °C (32.0 to 25.7 °F). 
Best Answer: If a solid surface is chilled below the dew point of the surrounding air and the surface itself is colder than freezing, frost will form on the surface. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frost So you need a cold surface (below freezing) and air that has moisture in it. At normal atmospheric pressure, frost will form at 0°C which is the freezing point of water. The formation of Dew is not frost, it's water droplets. Frost is ice.
An air frost occurs when the air temperature falls to or below the freezing point of water. An air frost is usually defined as the air temperature being below freezing point of water at a height of at least one metre above the ground. The 'feathery' variety of hoar frost forms when the surface temperature reaches freezing point before dew begins to form on it. A 'white' frost, composed of more globular ice, occurs when the dew forms first, then subsequently freezes.