SMOOTH MUSCLE-STRUCTURE. Smooth muscle (shown below) is made up of fusiform (diamond-shaped) cells with a single nucleus. The cells are arranged in sheets and contain three filament types: a) actin filaments with no troponin and tropomyosin (5 - 8 times more actin than skeletal muscle). 
Smooth muscle is found within the walls of blood vessels (such smooth muscle specifically being termed vascular smooth muscle) such as in the tunica media layer of large (aorta) and small arteries, arterioles and veins. Smooth muscle is fundamentally different from skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle in terms of structure, function, regulation of contraction, and excitation-contraction coupling. Smooth muscle cells known as myocytes, have a fusiform shape and, like striated muscle, can tense and relax.
1 Smooth muscle, neither striated in structure nor under voluntary control, is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair). Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium
The other classification scheme is based on whether the smooth muscles cells in an organ function together as one muscle or whether each muscle cell is independent. In multi-unit smooth muscle, the smooth muscle cells in an organ all behave independently-each cell contracts and relaxes on its own. Histologically, multi-unit smooth muscle has many fewer gap junctions than other types of smooth muscle. 
Smooth muscle: Along with skeletal and cardiac muscle, one of the types of muscle tissue in the body. Smooth muscle generally forms the supporting tissue of blood vessels and hollow internal organs, such as the stomach, intestine, and bladder. It is considered smooth because it does not have the microscopic lines (the striations) seen in the other two types of muscle. 
Muscle tissue is categorized into three distinct types: skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Each type of muscle tissue in the human body has a unique structure and a specific role. Skeletal muscle moves bones and other structures. Cardiac muscle contracts the heart to pump blood. The smooth muscle tissue that forms organs like the stomach and bladder changes shape to facilitate bodily functions. Here are more details about the structure and function of each type of muscle tissue in the human body
Smooth muscle is the muscle that lines hollow organs. A classic smooth muscle is the arteries and veins. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Smooth muscle is the muscle that lines hollow organs. A classic smooth muscle is the arteries and veins. They have the ability to contract and relax, but are not under conscious control.
It is divided into two subgroups; the single-unit (unitary) and multiunit smooth muscle. Within single-unit cells, the whole bundle or sheet contracts as a syncytium (i.e. a multinucleate mass of cytoplasm that is not separated into cells). Smooth muscle is fundamentally different from skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle in terms of structure, function, regulation of contraction, and excitation-contraction coupling. Smooth muscle cells known as myocytes, have a fusiform shape and, like striated muscle, can tense and relax.
Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated. Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium