Twill is a fabric characterized by its diagonal weave. This weave may be evident in tweed variants of twill, where several colors are used. It is less evident when used with a single colored thread like cotton, for use in cotton twill, sometimes also called chino.
The first thing to understand when trying to get a good grasp on what exactly is cotton twill fabric is to first understand what twill itself is. Twill simply refers to the type of weaving pattern used when constructing the fabric. In the case of twill that weaving pattern is a series of diagonal, parallel ribs. These diagonal, parallel ribs give the fabric a very durable and attractive quality. There are many benefits to a twill style fabric. 
twill. 1. a weave in which the filling threads are woven over and under two or more warp yarns, producing a diagonal pattern. 2. a fabric with a twill weave. 3. a garment, as trousers, of this fabric. 
Save. Uros Petrovic/iStock/Getty Images. Twill is a term referring to the diagonal pattern in which cloth is often woven. A fabric is twilled when two or more vertical threads -- the warp threads -- cross over two or more horizontal weft threads at a time. The result is a textile featuring a distinctively slanted pattern with a ribbed texture (known as wales). 
Twill shirts are shirts with a twill weave. So a twill cotton shirt is a shirt where with the cotton in a twill weave. Twill is not a type of material or fabric, but a description of the weave of the fabric. Further detail on twill shirts and the differences between twill and poplin is below. All the retailers below offer twill shirts
Twill is a type of textile weave with a pattern of diagonal parallel ribs (in contrast with a satin and plain weave). A twill weave can be identified by its diagonal lines. This is a 2/2 twill, with two warp threads crossing every two weft threads. Structure of a 2⁄2 twill. The offset at each row forms the diagonal pattern.
Normal cloth is made by weaving the warp and the weft (the two sets of fibres which make the cloth) on a one-to-one basis. Twill refers to a method of weaving in which, for example, the warp crosses one thread, but the weft crosses two. Many combinations are possible. Twill is a type of a weave made from any type of fiber-silk, polyester, cotton, etc-identified by diagonal, parralel ridges; cotton twill is the fabric woven using this technique from the raw cotton.
Twill is a weave not a fabric/textile. I think your dress code is trying to simply state no jeans/denim because it is too casual. People often use the term twill to define khakis. A pair of khakis (think Dockers maybe-well known) is woven the same way denim is. Imagine a loom with threads criss-crossing. Instead of weaving under one-over one-under one-over one, it actually goes over one-under two-over one-under two and so on...
Full Definition of TWILL. 1. : a fabric with a twill weave. 2. : a textile weave in which the filling threads pass over one and under two or more warp threads to give an appearance of diagonal lines. See twill defined for English-language learners. See twill defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 