Please try again later. Published on Sep 4, 2014. This was released in January 1965 as the lead single from the album of the same name. The song stayed at number five for two weeks and spent a total of seventeen weeks on the charts. The song refers to the Haynesville Woods, an area around the small town of Haynesville in northern Maine noted for many motor vehicle accidents.
The trucker disaster song A Tombstone Every Mile might be what Curless is best known for, but this LP isn't built around trucking songs, as were the albums of the time by Red Simpson (who covered A Tombstone Every Mile, as it happens). AllMusic Review by Richie Unterberger. Anchored by the number five country hit title track, Dick Curless ' first album for Tower also included his Top 20 country follow-up, Six Times a Day (The Trains Came Down), which like Tombstone Every Mile was written by Dan Fulkerson.
Curless was referenced in the comic, Ghost Rider, when a demonic trucker, with a striking resemblance to Curless himself, plays an 8-track of A Tombstone Every Mile while battling one of the Ghost Riders. Curless began his music career in 1948, in Ware, Massachusetts, where he hosted a radio show and toured with a local band called the Trail Blazers..
A Tombstone Every Mile  is a song written by Dan Fulkerson and recorded by American country music artist Dick Curless. It was released in January 1965 as the lead single from the album of the same name. The song stayed at number five for two weeks and spent a total of seventeen weeks on the chart. The song refers to the Haynesville Woods, an area around the small town of Haynesville in Aroostook County in northern Maine noted for many automobile crashes.
He died of stomach cancer in 1995. His song Bury the Bottle With Me is referenced in the 1975 Stephen King novel Salem's Lot ., and in the film of the Stephen King novella A Good Marriage, A Tombstone Every Mile is heard playing on car radio. Curless began his music career in 1948, in Ware, Massachusetts, where he hosted a radio show and toured with a local band called the Trail Blazers..
In 1965, Curless recorded one of the biggest hits of his career, A Tombstone Every Mile, which cracked the top-5 on the Billboard country charts and propelled him to national fame. Curless began his music career in 1948, in Ware, Massachusetts, where he hosted a radio show and toured with a local band called the Trail Blazers..
Tombstone Every Mile. Tombstone Every Mile lyrics and chords are intended for your personal use only, it's a very good trucker's song recorded by Dick Curless. Type an artists name or song title in the space above for a quick search of Classic Country Music Lyrics website. 