The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Larson families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Larson families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
Date of Birth: 24 December, 1991. Ethnicity: English, 1/16th Belgian (Flemish), more distant Channel Islander, Irish. Louis Tomlinson is a British singer, songwriter, actor, and football player. He is a member of the band One Direction. His parents are Troy Austin and Johannah Lee (Poulston). He is of mostly English descent, with more distant (to varying degrees) Belgian (Flemish), Channel Islander, and Irish, ancestry. Louis’s great-grandfather Leonard was the son of Sidney Poulston and Florence Beatrice Monks. Edna was the daughter of Joseph Hatton and Josephine Caroline Van Egghen (or Vanegghen); Josephine was Belgian (of Flemish background), making Louis Tomlinson of 1/16th Flemish-Belgian ancestry.
After high school Lincecum went on to pitch for the University of Washington. In 2006 he finished with a 12–4 win-loss record and a 1.94 earned run average (ERA), 199 strikeouts, and three saves in 125⅓ innings as a Washington Husky. Lincecum was shut down in September as a precaution, due to his high inning count in his first full year of professional ball. Between the minors and the majors, he pitched a total of 177⅓ innings.
Andrew Lincoln is a British actor. Lincoln spent his early childhood in Hull, Yorkshire before his family relocated to Bath, Somerset when he was age 10. He was educated at Beechen Cliff School in Bath, and then the prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London. His father is a civil engineer and his mother is a nurse. His brother is a teacher and he went to school with him for a few weeks to research his part in Teachers (2001). Apple Martin, the daughter of Coldplay's Chris Martin and Gwyneth Paltrow, served as a flower girl at his wedding. His wife is the daughter of Ian Anderson, lead singer of the rock group Jethro Tull.
Submit a suggestion & help us add it! Art Linson is an American film producer, director and screenwriter. Linson was born in Chicago, Illinois. He did his undergraduate work at the University of California-Berkeley and graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles law school. Art Linson's producing credits range from such com..
His father, Tobe Liston, was in his mid-40s when he and his wife, Helen Baskin, who was nearly 30 years younger than Tobe, moved to Arkansas from Mississippi in 1916. Helen had one child before she married Tobe, and Tobe had 13 children with his first wife. Tobe and Helen had 12 children together. The ending of the fight remains one of the most controversial in boxing history. Midway through the first round, Liston threw a left jab and Ali went over it with a fast right, knocking the former champion down. Liston went down on his back. He rolled over, got to his right knee and then fell on his back again.
With an injury to the Giants' fifth starter, Russ Ortiz, Lincecum was called up from Fresno to make his first major league start on May 6, 2007, against the Philadelphia Phillies. In his first career inning, Lincecum struck out three, the first being Chase Utley. Lincecum was shut down in September as a precaution, due to his high inning count in his first full year of professional ball. Between the minors and the majors, he pitched a total of 177⅓ innings.
This ancient surname is recorded in over one hundred spelling forms ranging from the Scottish and English Lawrence and Laurens, to Laurant (France), Lorentz (Germany), Lorenzo (Spain), Renzi (Italy), and Vavrik (Czech). He left London in January 1634, bound for the Barbados Island. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Magister Laurentius, a cleric, which was dated circa 1150, in the Episcopal Records of Glasgow, Scotland.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Tomlinson families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.