Orchitis is the inflammation of the testicles. It can be caused by either bacterial or viral infection. Both testicles may be affected by orchitis at the same time. However, symptoms are restricted to just one testicle in most men. The most common cause of orchitis is the mumps. Mumps is a viral childhood disease that is rare in the United States due to effective immunization programs. The Mayo Clinic estimates that 33 percent of men who contract mumps as a teen also develop orchitis (Mayo Clinic).
Overview of Epididymitis and Orchitis. Epididymitis is inflammation of the epididymis, which is a structure located on top of each testicle (testis). The epididymes are an important part of the sperm development process and are more prone to infection than the testicles. These conditions cause inflammation and pain that is often limited to one, but can involve both sides of the scrotum. Acute epididymitis, orchitis, and epididymo-orchitis cause sudden pain that usually responds well to treatment. Chronic conditions cause pain that develops gradually and can be more difficult to treat.
Epididymo-orchitis is an inflammation of the epididymis and/or testis. It is usually due to infection, most commonly from a urine infection or a sexually transmitted infection. A course of antibiotic medicine will usually clear the infection. Full recovery is usual. Complications are uncommon. 
Symptoms [edit]. Symptoms of orchitis are similar to those of testicular torsion. These can include: 1  hematospermia (blood in the semen). 2  hematuria (blood in the urine). 3  severe pain. 4  visible swelling of a testicle or testicles and often the inguinal lymph nodes on the affected side. Orchitis can be related to epididymitis infection that has spread to the testicles (then called epididymo-orchitis), sometimes caused by the sexually transmitted diseases chlamydia and gonorrhea.
Noun. 1. orchitis-inflammation of one or both testes; characterized by pain and swelling. inflammation, redness, rubor-a response of body tissues to injury or irritation; characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat. Translations.
orchitis. inflammation of a testis. Orchitis is not a common disorder, but it can occur in a variety of infectious diseases, including syphilis, tuberculosis, glanders, leprosy, and certain of the parasitic diseases. It usually accompanies epididymitis. Epididymo-orchitis (inflammation of both testes and part of the spermatic duct) is the most common bacterial type of Orchitis. This form of the condition occurs most often in sexually active males fifteen years and older, and in men over 45 with enlarged prostates.
Definition. Orchitis (or-KIE-tis) is an inflammation of one or both testicles. It is usually caused by a bacterial infection or by the mumps virus. Bacterial orchitis can be caused by sexually transmitted infections (STIs), particularly gonorrhea or chlamydia. Bacterial orchitis often results from epididymitis, an inflammation of the coiled tube (epididymis) at the back of the testicle that stores and carries sperm.