The bigger discrepancy seems to be with brown sugar made from beets. Brown sugar made from beet sugar has molasses added to the refined white sugar. The molasses byproduct from beet sugar production is sold as an addition to animal feed and not used in food for human consumption. With cane sugar the brown sugar may be a less refined product as it a step in the production process. Sugar beets are grown commercially in twelve states, as a summer crop in northern states like Michigan and Minnesota and as a winter crop in warmer climates like California. Sugar cane is only grown commercially in four states: Florida, Texas, Louisiana, and Hawaii.
The labels of most brands of sugars on supermarket shelves neglect to say whether what's inside is cane or beet. In some brands, the contents can vary from day to day. The Chronicle tested and blind-tasted creme brulee, cookies and cakes made with beet and cane sugar and found that indeed there is a difference. Brown sugar from C & H Sugar Co. and other cane refiners uses the process, but beet sugar is different. It's made by refining the sugar all the way to the final white granular stage, stripping off all the molasses because beet molasses is unfit for human consumption (it's recycled as cattle feed).
The white stuff we know as sugar is sucrose, a molecule composed of 12 atoms of carbon, 22 atoms of hydrogen, and 11 atoms of oxygen (C12H22O11). Like all compounds made from these three elements, sugar is a carbohydrate. Its found naturally in most plants, but especially in sugarcane and sugar beetshence their names. Sucrose is actually two simpler sugars stuck together: fructose and glucose.
Cane Sugar vs. Beet Sugar. Sugar (sucrose) is a naturally occurring carbohydrate found in every fruit and vegetable. Most of the sugar in the world comes from two sources: Sugar cane and beets, as it is easily extracted from both and both contain large quantities of sucrose. 99.95% sucrose in fact. 
Cane Sugar vs. Beet Sugar. Sugar (sucrose) is a naturally occurring carbohydrate found in every fruit and vegetable. Most of the sugar in the world comes from two sources: Sugar cane and beets, as it is easily extracted from both and both contain large quantities of sucrose. 99.95% sucrose in fact. The .05% difference is due in part to the fact that sugar cane and beets are different plants with different chemical makeups grown in different environments. Sugar cane is a tropical grass that grows abundantly in warm, moist and tropical climates and can reach 10-20 feet in height.
How Beet Sugar is Made-the Basic Story. White beet sugar is made from the beets in a single process, rather than the two steps involved with cane sugar. Because the beets have come from the ground they are much dirtier than sugar cane and have to be thoroughly washed and separated from any remaining beet leaves, stones and other trash material before processing. Extraction. The processing starts by slicing the beets into thin chips.
Refined sugar is made from raw sugar that has undergone a refining process to remove the molasses. Raw sugar is a sucrose which is synthesized from sugar cane or sugar beet and cannot immediately be consumed before going through the refining process to produce refined sugar or white sugar. 
Sugar produced from sugar cane is still more common than sugar beet sugar. Presently, about 30% of sugar produced comes from beets. For most people, there is little taste difference between cane and beet sugar, since the same types of table sugar can be produced from each source. 
The root of the beet contains 75% water, about 20% sugar, and 5% pulp (the exact sugar contents can vary between 12 and 21% sugar, depending on the cultivar and growing conditions). Sugar is the primary value of sugar beet as a cash crop. Sugar beets grow exclusively in the temperate zone, in contrast to sugarcane, which grows exclusively in the tropical and subtropical zones. The average weight of sugar beet ranges between 0.5 and 1 kg (1.1 and 2.2 lb). Sugar beet foliage has a rich, brilliant green color and grows to a height of about 35 cm (14 in).