Gluteus medius. The gluteus medius muscle is partially covered, on its lower-third part, by the gluteus maximus muscle. This makes up what is commonly referred to as the buttocks. The gluteus medius works to provide rotation of the thigh outward from the center of the body, which enables a steady walking gait.
1) While standing in front of a mirror, perform a single leg squat. If the opposite hip of the leg that you are standing on drops, or if the knee of the leg you are standing on rotates inward, that indicates a weakness in the gluteus medius. 2) Perform a bridge. You should feel a contraction in your glutes.
The client may complain of lower back pain (LBP) and the massage therapist may focus his or her work in the lumbar area, when in actuality the pain is either being referred from the gluteus medius, or cause by a weakness in that muscle.
A trendelenburg gait, in which there is weakness of the hip abductors (gluteus medius muscle), is characterized by trunk shift over the affected hip and is best visualized from behind of in front of the patient.
Weakness in the muscle, nerve damage, or problems with the muscle (or structures where it is attached) can cause a limp to develop, such as the Trendelenburg gait. This is an abnormal walking form where a person’s hip drops on the side opposite the damage or weakness, giving their gait a hobbled appearance.
If any of those tests revealed a weakness in the gluteus medius, you must address the weakness if you are going to correct the cause of any injuries you are experiencing due to that weakness. Simply taking rest time will not correct the underlying cause of your issues.
The role of the gluteus medius during activities such as walking and running is to dynamically stabilize the pelvis in a neutral position during single leg stance. As you can see in the photo below, weakness of the right gluteus medius will cause the left hip to drop when standing on the right limb.
The Gluteal Muscles comprise of three muscles which make up the buttocks: Gluteus Maximus, Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus Minimus. Tortora et al (1990) describe the function of the gluteal muscles: 1  Gluteus Maximus extends and rotates the thigh laterally. 2  Gluteus Medius and Minimus abduct and rotate the thigh medially.
The gluteus medius is located in between the gluteus minimus and gluteus maximus, sort of like the filling of a sandwich in between two slices of bread. One attachment lies along the external surface of the ilium, just below the iliac crest, and another on the lateral surface of the greater trochanter of the femur.