Best Answer: Coke has about 32 mg of caffeine in a 12 oz. can. Tea about the same. Black tea has about the same (depends on how strong it is) Black teas have more caffeine. Green tea has about 15 - 20mg. Not a lot. Coca Cola has 45 mg of caffeine in a 12 ounce serving. Coffee has 65-175 mg per 7 ounce serving, depending on the brewing method.
That's roughly the amount of caffeine in four cups of brewed coffee, 10 cans of cola or two energy shot drinks. Although caffeine use may be safe for adults, it's not a good idea for children. And adolescents should limit themselves to no more than 100 mg of caffeine a day. 
Coca Cola Classic is the world's most popular caffeinated soft drink and it is made by the Coca Cola Company, one of the largest companies in the world. Coca Cola also has some flavor variations with some having higher caffeine amounts. Coca-Cola Classic contains 2.83 mgs of caffeine per fluid ounce (9.58mg/100 ml).
However, given that the formula has always remained secret-this may simply be an embellishment. The Diet Coke range actually contains about 32% more caffeine than the standard coke formula. Coca-Cola Blak had the highest amount of caffeine of any coca-cola drink, but has since been discontinued. Coca-Cola Classic contains 2.83 mgs of caffeine per fluid ounce (9.58mg/100 ml).
Report Abuse. Coke has the same amount of caffeine as the bottles and cans!!! and yes it is possible to have Caffeine withdraws from drinking coke every day... It means you have a caffeine addiction and you should try and limit yourself to 1 large coke a week... Christopher · 6 years ago. There is appr 58 MG in 20 oz of coke. If you drink a lot of coke every day then yes you can have withdrawals and they can cause headaches. If you stop drinking it you should take yourself off of it slowly.
The caffeine in our drinks such as Coca-Cola, Dr Pepper and Coke Zero contributes to the overall flavour, adding a slight bitterness and working in harmony with both sugar and sweeteners to provide an enjoyable taste. It's also used in our energy drink Relentless. Safe for mums-to-be The Food Standards Agency recommends a maximum of 200mg of caffeine a day for pregnant women. A can of. has 32mg of caffeine and a can of Diet Coke contains 42mg. For pregnant women wanting a completely decaf option, we offer several caffeine-free drinks, including Caffeine Free Diet Coke, Oasis, Fanta, Lilt, Sprite and 5 Alive. Suitable for regular consumption. 
*Additional note* I have also checked how much caffeine regular Coca-Cola contains since I am seeing a lot of comments by people who haven`t tried Coke Zero or Diet Coke yet. :). Coke Zero contains 58mg of caffeine per 20 fl. oz. Diet Coke contains 76mg of caffeine per 20 fl. oz. Coca-Cola contains 58mg of caffeine per 20 fl. oz. A surprising 18 mg difference between Coca-Cola, Coke Zero and Diet Coke! That may not seem like much, but it is something soda drinkers may want to keep in mind if they are also trying to monitor their caffeine intake. 
Caffeine Content Of Popular Drinks. This page lists caffeine content by the amount of caffeine, so that you can easily see which beverages have the most caffeine and which ones have the least.Go the the ALPHABETICAL LIST by brand. 
Best Answer: Coke is Coke and has the same amount of caffeine no matter where it comes from. There is appr 58 MG in 20 oz of coke. If you drink a lot of coke every day then yes you can have withdrawals and they can cause headaches. If you stop drinking it you should take yourself off of it slowly.
Coke Zero contains 34 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounce serving. In comparison, an 8-ounce cup of brewed coffee contains 108 milligrams of caffeine. In addition, they both contain caffeine and between 1 to 4 calories per can -- anything under 5 calories does not need to be reported on nutrition label -- and are fat-free, protein-free, and carb-free. Both Coke Zero -- and Diet Coke -- contain caffeine, unless you buy the caffeine-free version of the beverage.