Directions. Place eggs in a saucepan large enough to accommodate them in a single layer. Fill the pan with cold water, covering eggs by an inch. Set over medium-high heat, and bring to a boil. Turn off heat, cover, and let stand 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Remove eggs from water. Serve immediately in egg cups -- perfect for cracking and scooping the egg right from the shell
1 Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 2  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 3 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.). 4  Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. 1 Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. 2  Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 3  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 4 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.).
Step 4: Perfect Hard-Boiled Eggs. You can store hard-boiled eggs peeled or unpeeled for about a week in the refrigerator. They are great deviled or in egg salad  or even added to mac and cheese and casseroles. Tip: Hard-boiled eggs are perishable; don't let them sit at room temperature for more than two hours. Lower the heat to a simmer. In about 3 to 4 minutes you'll have the perfect consistency: tender-set egg whites with a creamy yolk. http://foodnetwork.sndimg.com/content/dam/images/food/fullset/2011/7/15/3/HT_Hard-Boil-Beauty-02_s4x3.jpg.rend.snigalleryslide.jpeg.
Step 1: Place the Eggs in a Pan of Water and Bring to a Boil. For hard-boiled eggs, put the eggs in a pan and cover them with cold water. This way you'll have less of a chance of breaking them. Bring to a boil, put a lid on it and turn off the heat. Let it stand for 10 to 15 minutes. Lower the heat to a simmer. In about 3 to 4 minutes you'll have the perfect consistency: tender-set egg whites with a creamy yolk. http://foodnetwork.sndimg.com/content/dam/images/food/fullset/2011/7/15/3/HT_Hard-Boil-Beauty-02_s4x3.jpg.rend.snigalleryslide.jpeg.
Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 4 to 5 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel.
Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. Once cooked, plunge the hard-boiled egg into plenty of cold water for one minute.
Bring the water up to a boil, then lower it to a rapid simmer. Add the eggs to the pot, and then begin timing. If you're just cooking one or two eggs, five minutes is perfect for a runny yolk, or cook as long as seven minutes for a more firmly set, but still spoonable, yolk. 1 Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. 2  Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 3  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 4 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.).
Cook. When I want a soft boiled egg I want the yolk soft and the white firm. The boiling time has a lot to do with your elevation. 5 minutes is perfect for an elevation of 1100 ft (330 meters) if you are nearer sea level decrease the boiling time if at a higher elevation increase the time.
Use a slotted spoon to lower the eggs gently into the simmering water. Cook the eggs for about 6 minutes; 5 minutes if you like a very runny yolk and 7 minutes if you prefer a firmer set one. Use the slotted spoon to remove the eggs from the water and place them into an ice-water bath for 30 to 60 seconds. Alternatively, run them under cold water.