ARIS Risk and Compliance Manager. Corporate governance is a term that refers broadly to the rules, processes, or laws by which businesses are operated, regulated, and controlled. 
Definition. The framework of rules and practices by which a board of directors ensures accountability, fairness, and transparency in a company's relationship with its all stakeholders (financiers, customers, management, employees, government, and the community). Corporate governance broadly refers to the mechanisms, relations, and processes by which a corperation is controlled and is directed; involves balancing the many interests of the stakeholders of a corporation. 6 people found this helpful.
Corporate governance broadly refers to the mechanisms, processes and relations by which corporations are controlled and directed. Interest in the corporate governance practices of modern corporations, particularly in relation to accountability, increased following the high-profile collapses of a number of large corporations during 2001–2002, most of which involved accounting fraud; and then again after the recent financial crisis in 2008.
Corporate governance refers to the formally established guidelines that determine how a company is run. The company’s board of directors approves and periodically reviews the guidelines, which ... Since corporate governance also provides the framework for attaining a company's objectives, it encompasses practically every sphere of management, from action plans and internal controls to performance measurement and corporate disclosure.
Organizational governance involves the ability to facilitate the corporate legal structure, define policy and define the organization’s culture. Organizational Governance performance objectives include: 1  Demonstrate the knowledge to facilitate the organization’s corporate legal and governance structures. 2  Demonstrate the knowledge to integrate the corporate mission, vision and values statement into the organization’s culture. 1 Demonstrate the knowledge to facilitate the organization’s corporate legal and governance structures. 2  Demonstrate the knowledge to integrate the corporate mission, vision and values statement into the organization’s culture. 3  See all Organizational Governance resources.
DEFINITION of 'Corporate Governance'. The system of rules, practices and processes by which a company is directed and controlled. Corporate governance essentially involves balancing the interests of the many stakeholders in a company-these include its shareholders, management, customers, suppliers, financiers, government and the community. Since corporate governance also provides the framework for attaining a company's objectives, it encompasses practically every sphere of management, from action plans and internal controls to performance measurement and corporate disclosure.
Organizational governance in a medical practice consists of developing long-term strategies and the strategic direction of an organization. 1 Demonstrate the knowledge to facilitate the organization’s corporate legal and governance structures. 2  Demonstrate the knowledge to integrate the corporate mission, vision and values statement into the organization’s culture. 3  See all Organizational Governance resources.
10 people found this helpful. Corporate governance broadly refers to the mechanisms, relations, and processes by which a corperation is controlled and is directed; involves balancing the many interests of the stakeholders of a corporation. 6 people found this helpful.
The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the long-term success of the company. Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and controlled. Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their companies. The shareholders’ role in governance is to appoint the directors and the auditors and to satisfy themselves that an appropriate governance structure is in place. Corporate governance is therefore about what the board of a company does and how it sets the values of the company, and it is to be distinguished from the day to day operational management of the company by full-time executives.