18-20 lb. 4½-5 days. Once thawed, your turkey will keep in the fridge for up to 4 days. Bearing that in mind, err on the side of thawing a day or two too soon so you don’t have to do a last-minute thaw. Also, if you plan to brine your turkey you need to plan a day for that. If you do procrastinate, you can thaw your turkey in cold water. Place the still-wrapped turkey in a container large enough to allow it to be covered with water. Fill the container with cold water and change the water every 30 minutes. This method will thaw a turkey at the rate of about 1 pound every 30 minutes. An 18-pound turkey will take 9 hour
Procedures for all 3 methods of thawing follow. To thaw turkey in the refrigerator: Keep the turkey wrapped and place it in a pan; let stand about 24 hours for each 5 pounds of turkey. Let large turkeys stand a maximum of 5 days in the refrigerator. 
1 Thaw breast side down, in an unopened wrapper, with enough cold water to cover your turkey completely. 2  Change water every 30 minutes to keep the turkey chilled. 3  Estimate a minimum thawing time of 30 minutes per lb. Cold Water Thawing. 1  Thaw breast side down, in an unopened wrapper, with enough cold water to cover your turkey completely. 2  Change water every 30 minutes to keep the turkey chilled.
Safely thawing a frozen turkey is one of the most important steps in preparing a meal. There are two recommended methods, depending on the amount of time available. Refrigerator thawing is preferred and the least labor-intensive but requires more time. Cold water thawing takes less time but requires more attention. Cold Water Thawing. 1  Thaw breast side down, in an unopened wrapper, with enough cold water to cover your turkey completely. 2  Change water every 30 minutes to keep the turkey chilled. 3  Estimate a minimum thawing time of 30 minutes per lb
• Place the frozen turkey in the fridge — be sure your refrigerator temperature is set at 40 °F or below. • You’ll need to a llow about 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds of frozen turkey you plan to thaw in the fridge. Approximate times to defrost a whole turkey in the fridge: - 10 pounds — 2 days plus 12 hours - 15 pounds — 3 days plus 18 hours - 20 pounds — 5 days - 25 pounds — 6 days plus 6 hours. Check out this handy online calculator to determine how long it will take to defrost your frozen turkey. Another plus of thawing turkey in the refrigerator: If your plans change and you decide not to cook the turkey at all, you can safely refreeze the defrosted turkey within 1 to 2 days (although there may be some loss of quality). 2. Cold Water Thawing. You can defrost your frozen turkey much faster in cold water.
According to the Iowa State University Extension: Defrost the turkey in its original wrapper on a tray in the refrigerator 24 hours for each five pounds. Never thaw a turkey at room temperature. You may also place the wrapped turkey in the sink and cover it completely with cold water. This method requires about 30 minutes per pound. If the wrapping is torn, place the turkey in another plastic bag, close securely, and then place in water.
Thawing a turkey in your refrigerator takes about 1 day for every 4-lbs of turkey, so if you want to defrost a 12-lb bird in the refrigerator, it will take about 3 days. Method #2: Place the turkey breast-side down in your kitchen sink and cover it with cold water. Yes, cold water. 