Blood (400X). Blood is a connective tissue with a fluid matrix called plasma. Three basic types of cells are found suspended in plasma: The Erythrocytes (red blood cells) are pink with a light center (where the cell is thinner and the light shines through
As a result of this basic topology, other tissues are either supported upon connective tissue (epithelial surfaces), invaginated into connective tissue (glandular epithelium), or embedded within the connective tissue (blood vessels, muscles, and nerves). 
Blood is considered a connective tissue for two basic reasons: (1) embryologically, it has the same origin (mesodermal) as do the other connective tissue types and (2) blood connects the body systems together bringing the needed oxygen, nutrients, hormones and other signaling molecules, and removing the wastes. 
Connective Tissue A really diverse group of tissues: Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. Blood is also a connective tissue. A really diverse group of tissues.
Photo by: Alila. The human body is composed of just four basic kinds of tissue: nervous, muscular, epithelial, and connective tissue. Connective tissue is the most abundant, widely distributed, and varied type. It includes fibrous tissues, fat, cartilage, bone, bone marrow, and blood. 
Connective tissue is composed primarily of two elements: cells and a matrix. The types of cells found in connective tissue vary depending on the type of tissue they support. For example, red and white blood cells are found in blood, which is a fluid connective tissue. Adipocytes are fat cells found in adipose tissue, or fat. And fibroblasts are cells found in large quantities in many different types of connective tissues. Areolar and reticular tissue are types of loose connective tissue that provide support, as well as fill up unused spaces in the body. Blood, a fluid connective tissue, provides a transport system within our body for oxygen and other important substances.
Interestingly enough, blood is considered to be a type of connective tissue. Even though it has a different function in comparison to other connective tissues it does have an extracellular matrix. The matrix consists of the plasma, while red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are suspended in the plasma. Lymph. Lymph is another type of fluid connective tissue.
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water