Save. Pityriasis Leichenoides et Variolaformis Acuta (PLEVA), also called Mucha Habermann's disease, is a rare condition that affects the skin, causing clusters of small, itchy bumps to form on the upper torso and extremities (hands and arms). 
Hi Cantfindaname -. I'm Jen-I'm one of the group leaders for the PLEVA group. I just wanted to welcome you to the group. At the moment I have the flu so I hope it's ok if I contact you in a few days with more info. I keep a diary and I have pictures on my profile page please feel free to read anything you want-it may help you
Approximately two-thirds of people with lupus will develop some type of skin disease, called cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Skin disease in lupus can cause rashes or sores (lesions), most of which will appear on sun-exposed areas such as the face, ears, neck, arms, and legs. 40-70 percent of people with lupus will find that their disease is made worse by exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays from sunlight or artificial light. A dermatologist, a physician who specializes in caring for the skin, should treat lupus skin rashes and lesions. He or she will usually examine tissue under a microscope to determine whether a lesion or rash is due to cutaneous lupus: taking the tissue sample is called a biopsy.
Fermented Foods & a disease called PLEVA. This post isn't recipes or cute photos of my little dog, so feel free to skip over it if you like. I'm writing this post mainly for other folks out there suffering a rare immune disorder called PLEVA. This post is also about my experiences with PLEVA and what role I believe food, specifically fermented foods, played in my remission status. I've only had 2 other episodes over the last years of a herald spot along with flu-like symptoms and called my dermatologists to be put on antibiotics immediately for a short course, with minimal rash breakouts. At those times, I always boost my diet with more fermented foods too.
It is the more severe version of pityriasis lichenoides chronica. The disease is characterized by rashes and small lesions on the skin. The disease is more common in males and usually occurs in young adulthood, although it has been seen in every age group and every race. It is possible for the disease to go into remission for short periods of time or forever. Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (also known as acute guttate parapsoriasis, acute parapsoriasis, acute pityriasis lichenoides, Mucha–Habermann disease, parapsoriasis acuta, parapsoriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta, and parapsoriasis varioliformis) is a disease of the immune system.
Abstract quote. Pityriasis lichenoides represents a unique group of inflammatory skin disorders that include pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA), febrile ulceronecrotic Mucha-Habermann disease (a subtype of PLEVA), and pityriasis lichenoides chronica. Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) is commonly thought of as a disease of young adults, yet we identified five cases, involving patients who were 3, 5, 6, 8, and 11 years of age, among 13,000 consecutive specimens submitted to a general dermatopathology laboratory during a 15-week period.
Pityriasis lichenoides has an acute and chronic phase. The acute form is called Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) or Mucha-Habermann disease. The chronic form is usually designated as pityriasis licehnoides chronica. Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) is commonly thought of as a disease of young adults, yet we identified five cases, involving patients who were 3, 5, 6, 8, and 11 years of age, among 13,000 consecutive specimens submitted to a general dermatopathology laboratory during a 15-week period.
Pleva skin disorder. red spots which may develop into blisters or open sores.These will heal on their own in some weeks and recur again also, possibly. Pityriasis lichenoides is the name given to an uncommon rash of unknown cause. Its mild form is known as pityriasis lichenoides chronica (PLC). 
5 min. of sunlight a day, then put on your 45 spf ! Being sunburnt with a PLC breakout is one of the most awful things, there's nothing you can do but wait for the burn to peel or turn to tan. I would try www.skinforum.org and check out the Pleva/ PLC sections. They represent all types of skin problems. I'm Jen-I'm one of the group leaders for the PLEVA group. I just wanted to welcome you to the group. At the moment I have the flu so I hope it's ok if I contact you in a few days with more info.