chalk is made from substances in the earth, (which i don't know the name of) and it is a weak rock that we always see in class,(depends if your teacher is a smartboard … or Geniusboard user or uses marker). Chalk is used for writing, lawn tennis, gymnastics, and toothpaste. 4 people found this useful.
chalk is made from substances in the earth, (which i don't know the name of) and it is a weak rock that we always see in class,(depends if your teacher is a smartboard … or Geniusboard user or uses marker). Chalk is used for writing, lawn tennis, gymnastics, and toothpaste. 4 people found this useful. Answered.
Yes, it's a sedimentary rock composed of calcium carbonate. Classroom chalk is not necessarily the same as chalk the rock, since it may include binders and pigments in additi … on to pure
Chalk is one of the best known of rocks, recognisable for its white colouration in striking land features such as the White Cliffs of Dover and Seven Sisters (pictured above), and familiar to most in everyday products such as blackboard chalk.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) in the form of the mineral calcite. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris.
Chalk is a member of the limestone family of rocks, that is they contain a large amount of calcium carbonate which means that the rock is alkaline, that is the opposite of acid. Chalk is a special form of limestone, which is composed almost entirely of calcium carbonate, which is why it is white in colour.
Chalk has many purposes. It can be used as a drying agent for gymnasts, rock climbers, and weightlifters. It is used in billiards (pool) on the tips of the pool cues. It can b … e made into sticks for writing on chalkboards.
Chalk /ˈtʃɔːk/ is a soft, white, porous sedimentary carbonate rock, a form of limestone composed of the mineral calcite. Calcite is calcium carbonate or CaCO 3.