So, in short, Hemophilia affects a portion of the DNA on the X chromosome that tells the body how to create Factor VIII or Factor IX (depending on if it's A or B), that portion being absent on the Y chromosome, thus causing the disease. Source(s): Men who have hemophilia cannot pass on the disease to their sons, as they would be passing on the Y chromosome, which is perfectly healthy, but all of their daughters would be carriers of the disease, receiving the father's bad X chromosome.
Hemophilia Genetics. Hemophilia is carried on the X chromosome. It is called an X linked genetic disorder. A women who is a carrier for hemophilia has the genetic mutation on one of her X chromosomes as illustrated above. She will have another non mutated X chromosome that will usually somewhat compensate for the defect in the other.
A defect in one of the genes that determines how the body makes blood clotting factor VIII or IX causes hemophilia. These genes are located on the X chromosomes (KRO-muh-somz). Chromosomes come in pairs. Females have two X chromosomes, while males have one X and one Y chromosome. Only the X chromosome carries the genes related to clotting factors. A male who has a hemophilia gene on his X chromosome will have hemophilia. When a female has a hemophilia gene on only one of her X chromosomes, she is a hemophilia carrier” and can pass the gene to her children
In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, it is very rare for females to have hemophilia. Hemophilia A and hemophilia B are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with these conditions are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes.
The factor VIII gene is located on the X-chromosome and is transmitted by recessive inheritance. Males have an X-chromosome and and a Y-chromosome and females have two X-chromosomes. This means that females would only carry one of the mutant alleles for hemophilia and are said to be carriers. 
1 Males having one normal gene and females having two normal genes for Factor VIII are clear of the hemophilia A trait and will not transmit this defect to offspring. 2  Males having one abnormal gene are affected with hemophilia and will transmit that abnormal gene to all their daughters, but to none of their sons. Inheritance. The gene for Factor VIII is carried on the X chromosome and the presence of one normal gene is sufficient to prevent hemophilia. This form of inheritance is called sex-linked (or X-linked), recessive.
The X and Y chromosomes are called sex chromosomes. The gene for hemophilia is carried on the X chromosome. Hemophilia is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. Females inherit two X chromosomes, one from their mother and one from their father (XX). Males inherit an X chromosome from their mother and a Y chromosome from their father (XY)
The genetic factors that cause hemophilia are passed down through the X chromosome. Every male has one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. Every female has two X chromosomes. Males inherit a Y chromosome from their father and an X chromosome from their mother; females inherit an X chromosome from each parent. The chance that a child will inherit hemophilia depends upon whether he or she inherits an affected gene from one or both parents. 
Thus, males can have a disease like hemophilia if they inherit an affected X chromosome that has a mutation in either the factor VIII or factor IX gene. Females can also have hemophilia, but this is much rarer. In such cases both X chromosomes are affected or one is affected and the other is missing or inactive. In these females, bleeding symptoms may be similar to males with hemophilia. A female with one affected X chromosome is a carrier of hemophilia. Sometimes a female who is a carrier can have symptoms of hemophilia. In addition, she can pass the affected X chromosome with the clotting factor gene mutation on to her children. Learn more about the inheritance pattern for hemophilia
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Hemophilia affects the X chromosome. The reason that Hemophilia generally only affects men is because that in women, who are generally carriers of the disease, they have an additional X chromosome to offset the bad gene on their other. Men who have hemophilia cannot pass on the disease to their sons, as they would be passing on the Y chromosome, which is perfectly healthy, but all of their daughters would be carriers of the disease, receiving the father's bad