Symmetric encryption is the process of converting readable data unreadable format and converting it back to readable format using same key. Symmetric encryption algorithms use the same key for encryption and decryption. You will learn the terms encryption, encryption algorithm encryption key and symmetric encryption in this lesson. Cryptography is the art and science of making data impossible to read.
An encryption system in which the sender and receiver of a message share a single, common key that is used to encrypt and decrypt the message. Contrast this with public-key cryptology, which utilizes two keys-a public key to encrypt messages and a private key to decrypt them. 
Symmetric encryption is the oldest and best-known technique. A secret key, which can be a number, a word, or just a string of random letters, is applied to the text of a message to change the content in a particular way. This might be as simple as shifting each letter by a number of places in the alphabet. A problem with asymmetric encryption, however, is that it is slower than symmetric encryption. It requires far more processing power to both encrypt and decrypt the content of the message. To use asymmetric encryption, there must be a way for people to discover other public keys.
A type of encryption where the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt the message. This differs from asymmetric (or public-key) encryption, which uses one key to encrypt a message and another to decrypt the message. PREVIOUSSymbian. NEXTsymmetric-key cryptography. 
Symmetric-key algorithms are algorithms for cryptography that use the same cryptographic keys for both encryption of plaintext and decryption of ciphertext. The keys may be identical or there may be a simple transformation to go between the two keys. 
Symmetric vs Asymmetric Encryption. Encryption is a key concept in cryptography. It is the process in which one can encode a message to a format that can’t be read by an eavesdropper. It is an age old technique, and one popular ancient use case was found in Caesar’s messages, which were encrypted using Caesar cipher. Asymmetric Encryption. Asymmetric encryption is also known as public key cryptography which is a relatively new area compared to symmetric encryption. Asymmetric encryption uses two keys to encrypt your plain text. This came to the arena to address an inherent problem with the symmetric cipher.
Definition of Symmetric Encryption. Symmetric Encryption is an Encryption algorithm where the same key is used for both Encryption and Decryption. The key must be kept secret, and is shared by the message sender and recipient. 
Symmetric Encryption (also known as symmetric-key encryption, single-key encryption, one-key encryption and private key encryption) is a type of encryption where the same secret key is used to encrypt and decrypt information or there is a simple transform between the two keys. Symmetric key encryption algorithms require sharing the secret key-both the sender and the receiver need the same key to encrypt or decrypt data. Anyone who knows the secret key can decrypt the message. So it is essential that the sender and receiver have a way to exchange secret keys in a secure manner.
Symmetric Key Encryption. Encryption algorithms that use the same key for encrypting and for decrypting information are called symmetric-key algorithms. The symmetric key is also called a secret key because it is kept as a shared secret between the sender and receiver of information. The process of coding plaintext to create ciphertext is called encryption and the process of decoding ciphertext to produce the plaintext is called decryption. Modern systems of electronic cryptography use digital keys (bit strings) and mathematical algorithms (encryption algorithms) to encrypt and decrypt