Bell curves are a graphical representation of what is known as normal distribution in statistics. Learn more about the bell curve and the theory behind it in this About.com video. And then, a bell curve follows the 68-95-99.7 rule. It’s basically an easy way to make calculations on the bell curve. About 68 percent of all the data should be within one standard deviation of the mean. About 95 percent of all the data should be within two standard deviations
This is not a lesson in the statistical formulation of the bell curve; rather, it is a lesson to help you fully understand the impact on grades that the bell curve produces. First, to help you better understand the basics behind the bell curve concept, let's start by explaining what the bell curve is. On a bell curve like this, the top of the curve demonstrates the C's, the far right side of the curve is where the B's and A's are placed, and the far left side of the curve is where the D's and F's are placed.
The only two numbers that we care about in it are the mean and standard deviation. The bell curve for a given set of data has center located at the mean. This is where the highest point of the curve or “top of the bell“ is located. A data set‘s standard deviation determines how spread out our bell curve is. The larger the standard deviation, the more spread out the curve. 
DEFINITION of 'Bell Curve'. The most common type of distribution for a variable. The term bell curve comes from the fact that the graph used to depict a normal distribution consists of a bell-shaped line. The bell curve is also known as a normal distribution. The bell curve is less commonly referred to as a Gaussian distribution, after German mathematician and physicist Karl Gauss, who popularized the model in the scientific community by using it to analyze astronomical data.
Bell curve may refer to: 1  A Gaussian function, a specific kind of function whose graph is a bell-shaped curve. 2  Normal (Gaussian) distribution, whose density function is a Gaussian function. 
The Bell Curve is a highly controversial 1994 book by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray. It purports to show that intelligence is the most dominant factor in the trajectory of each person's life, and it serves to predict such things as socioeconomic status and tendencies towards criminal behavior. 
Normal Distribution Forms a Bell Curve. This is a bell curve, as you can see it kind of looks like... a bell, hence the name. We encounter the bell curve in statistics and basically it is the graphical representation of what we call the Normal Distribution. And then, a bell curve follows the 68-95-99.7 rule. It’s basically an easy way to make calculations on the bell curve. About 68 percent of all the data should be within one standard deviation of the mean. About 95 percent of all the data should be within two standard deviations
A good example of a bell curve or normal distribution is the roll of two dice. The distribution is centered around the number 7 and the probability decreases as you move away from the center. Here are the % chance of the various outcomes when you roll two dice. 2 - 2.78 % 8 - 13.89 %. 3 - 5.56 % 9 – 11.11 %. The important things to note about a normal distribution is the curve is concentrated in the center and decreases on either side. This is significant in that the data has less of a tendency to produce unusually extreme values, called outliers, as compared to other distributions.
A bell curve should also be symmetric, so if you divide the curve up in half, both halves are mirror images of each other. Thus 50% of the data are above the average and 50% are below the average. So, a shape that’s higher at the end, like this one, is not a bell curve. And then, a bell curve follows the 68-95-99.7 rule. It’s basically an easy way to make calculations on the bell curve. About 68 percent of all the data should be within one standard deviation of the mean. About 95 percent of all the data should be within two standard deviations
Definition: The term bell curve is used to describe the mathematical concept called normal distribution, sometimes referred to as Gaussian distribution. ‘Bell curve’ refers to the shape that is created when a line is plotted using the data points for an item that meets the criteria of ‘normal distribution’. The important things to note about a normal distribution is the curve is concentrated in the center and decreases on either side. This is significant in that the data has less of a tendency to produce unusually extreme values, called outliers, as compared to other distributions.