Directions. Applying Astroglide Gel is easy. This works like most sexual lubricates. It can be applied directly to the genital or to the condom. You can use your hand or an applicator when you slather on a small portion of Astroglide on your skin. Just make sure that your hands or the applicator to be used is clean. Rather, it’s simply a form of help so that you don’t ever get dry down there. More importantly, Astroglide Gel is made with an even thicker formula for long lasting action. You can finally enjoy your time in the bedroom and please your man. You can go on and on with sex and intimacy.
Astroglide Overview. The Astroglide product is a personal lubricant that is available in several different formulations including gel, liquid and flavored. It is sold on a very extensive website that contains a number of sections which, while informative and interesting, make the site hard to navigate. There are some lubricants that do also address the problem of hormonal imbalance in menopausal women but this does not seem to be the case with. . However, Astroglide is affordable enough that it can easily be incorporated into any woman’s sexual activity as a way of making the act more pleasurable.
Oil-based lubricants, for example petroleum-based lubricants (such as petroleum jelly), can increase the likelihood of breakage and slipping of latex condoms due to loss of elasticity caused by these lubricants. Oil may also create tiny holes in the latex. Personal lubricants (colloquially termed lube) are specialized lubricants used during human sexual acts such as intercourse and masturbation, to reduce friction to or between the penis and vagina, anus, or other body parts, or applied to sex toys to reduce friction or ease in penetration.
Astroglide was the first widely available lubricant specifically designed for sex play (as opposed to medical use). A vast improvement on the medical model, Astroglide is thin, slippery, and designed to mimic natural vaginal lubrication. The consistency of Astroglide is very thin, almost like water, which is something some people like but may be less practical for things like use with sex toys and for anal sex. Astroglide also has a distinctly sweet taste, something people tend to really like or dislike.
Astroglide is a brand of personal lubricant marketed to enhance intimate activities. it is manufactured by BioFilm Inc of Vista, California. The inventor of Astroglide, Daniel Wray, formulated it while working on the cooling system of a space shuttle at Edwards Air Force Base in 1977. Wray said he was trying to remove the oil from anhydrous ammonia and I ended up with this substance
The Astroglide product is a personal lubricant that is available in several different formulations including gel, liquid and flavored. There are some lubricants that do also address the problem of hormonal imbalance in menopausal women but this does not seem to be the case with. . However, Astroglide is affordable enough that it can easily be incorporated into any woman’s sexual activity as a way of making the act more pleasurable.
Astroglide has a new product in a green colored box which is glycerin and paraben free for those sensitive to such ingredients. Instead of glycerin, xylitol is used in the product, which has been shown to decrease yeast proliferation. The inventor of Astroglide, Daniel Wray, formulated it while working on the cooling system of a space shuttle at Edwards Air Force Base in 1977.
AstroGlide. A form of lubricant that enables the user to perform hi speed punching the clown and reach their point of ejaculation much quick then a user of the traditional dry jack. Also used where anal sex is required by law. Astroglide is the top performer when it comes to anal sex.