There are four muscles in the anterior compartment of the leg; tibialis anterior, extensor digitorun longus, extensor hallucis longus and fibularis tertius. Collectively, they act to dorsiflex and invert the foot at the ankle joint. The extensor digitorum longus and extensor hallucis longus also extend the toes. The muscles in this compartment are innervated by the deep fibular nerve (L4-L5), and blood is supplied via the anterior tibial artery.
Many muscles do the work of moving the ankle and foot. Some of the muscles that move the foot start higher up in the leg, and smaller muscles work right in the foot itself. The leg is divided into compartments: the anterior, lateral, and posterior compartments. The muscles in these compartments help move the ankle and the foot: Anterior compartment: This compartment lies in front of the tibia and fibula and is surrounded by fascia. The anterior muscles dorsiflex the foot at the ankle and extend the toes
Dorsiflexion of the foot uses four muscles. These are the tibialis  anterior, extensor digitorum longus, extensor hallucis longus, and  the peroneus tertius. 
They dorsiflex the ankle and extend the toes. Fibularis (peroneus) tertius: This muscle originates on the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula and inserts on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It dorsiflexes the ankle and everts the foot. Some of the muscles that move the foot start higher up in the leg, and smaller muscles work right in the foot itself. The leg is divided into compartments: the anterior, lateral, and posterior compartments. The muscles in these compartments help move the ankle and the foot:
Dorsiflexion of the foot uses four muscles. These are the tibialis  anterior, extensor digitorum longus, extensor hallucis longus, and  the peroneus tertius. The prime mover … is the tibialis anterior. 
Shin muscles, such as the tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus, dorsiflex the foot and extend the toes. The muscles of the calf also work subtly to stabilize the ankle joint and foot and to maintain the body’s balance. Prepared by Tim Taylor, Anatomy and Physiology Instructor. 
To dorsiflex means to contract the muscles on your shins (the tibialis anterior) which makes your ankle bend in a way that points your toes upward. If you stand upright and try to pick the front of your foot off the ground, you're dorsiflexing. Here's what I saw many of the runners and walkers in class doing. 
THE WHAT, WHEN, WHO, AND HOW. Dorsiflexion is defined as flexion of the foot in an upward direction and occurs at the ankle. When our foot is pulled into this rigid position, the toes are higher than the heel when considering a horizontal plane. The primary muscles responsible for dorsiflexion include the tibialis anterior, extensor hallicus longus, extensor digitorum longus, and peroneus teritus. Daily self massage along these muscles in the lower leg will offer critical and necessary improvements in biomechanics, commonly resulting in the cure of foot problems related to a lack of range of motion, limiting dorsiflexion. Time to get rolling!
(Redirected from Dorsiflexion). Motion, the process of movement, is described using specific anatomical terms. Motion includes movement of organs, joints, limbs, and specific sections of the body. The terminology used, describes this motion according to its direction relative to the anatomical position of the joints. 
The muscles acting on the foot can be divided into two distinct groups; extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. 1  The extrinsic muscles arise from the anterior, posterior and lateral compartments of the leg. 2  They are mainly responsible for actions such as eversion, inversion, plantarflexion and dorsiflexion of the foot. 1 They are mainly responsible for actions such as eversion, inversion, plantarflexion and dorsiflexion of the foot. 2  The intrinsic muscles are located within the foot and are responsible for the more fine motor actions of the foot, for example movement of individual digits.