How many beets and where to get them. You can grow your own, pick your own, or buy them at the grocery store. About 7 pounds of 2- to 2½-inch diameter beets makes about 8 pints of pickled beets. I wouldn't use canned beets; what's the point: Most of the flavor is gone from them, and you can always get fresh beets
1 Storage time shown is for best quality only — after that, the pickled beets' texture, color or flavor may change, but in most cases, they will still be safe to consume if they have been kept continuously refrigerated. Tips. 1  Refrigerate after opening and keep tightly covered. 2  Storage time shown is for best quality only — after that, the pickled beets' texture, color or flavor may change, but in most cases, they will still be safe to consume if they have been kept continuously refrigerated.
I've had a jar of pickled beets in the fridge for about 2-3 weeks now... I have a jar which I recently bought and that is the date they have on them. If the beets have been opened and the seal is broken they will still last at least 6 months to a year in the refrigerator. I keep beets in my refrigerator all the time...along with my pickles. I have never thrown any out and I know I have had them for at least 4 to 6 months, on occasion. tips: Beets go great with mac and cheese, fried potatoes, and salmon
1 Refrigerate after opening and keep tightly covered. 2  Storage time shown is for best quality only — after that, the pickled beets' texture, color or flavor may change, but in most cases, they will still be safe to consume if they have been kept continuously refrigerated. Tips. 1  Refrigerate after opening and keep tightly covered. 2  Storage time shown is for best quality only — after that, the pickled beets' texture, color or flavor may change, but in most cases, they will still be safe to consume if they have been kept continuously refrigerated.
Best Answer: Pickled eggs are hard-cooked eggs marinated in vinegar and pickling spices, spicy cider, or juice from pickles or pickled beets. Studies done at the American Egg Board substantiate that unopened containers of commercially pickled eggs keep for several months on the shelf. How long can you keep pickled eggs before discarding them for food safety? The hard-boiled eggs were pickled in a mixture of vinegar, Splenda, water, and sliced red beets in their own juice.
Recipe Type: Beets, Pickles Yields: serves many Ingredients: 3 pounds fresh small whole beets (use similar size beets)* 2 cups apple cider vinegar 2 cups water 2 cups granulated sugar 3 or 4 garlic cloves, sliced in half * Small beets can be pickled whole. Larger beets can be sliced in 1/4-inch slices or diced. Place beets in large heavy pan and cover with water over medium-high heat. Bring just to a boil; reduce heat to medium, cover and cook until fork tender, approximately 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from heat and drain. Let beets cool until you can safely handle them.
All of the following pickled egg recipes are for storage in the refrigerator. Pickled eggs should never be at room temperature except for serving time, when they should be limited to no more than 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40 to 140 degrees F. Pickling solutions are heated to boiling, simmered for 5 minutes, and poured over the peeled eggs. Egg whites tend to be more tender if a boiling solution is used instead of room temperature solutions. Eggs used for pickling should have clean, sound shells.
Caution: Home pickled eggs stored at room temperature have caused botulism. For the report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), see http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm4934a2.htm The Editorial Note in this report cautions against room temperature pickling and storage, also. Pickling solutions are heated to boiling, simmered for 5 minutes, and poured over the peeled eggs. Egg whites tend to be more tender if a boiling solution is used instead of room temperature solutions. Eggs used for pickling should have clean, sound shells.