1 Vessels returning blood to the heart include: 2  Right and left pulmonary veins. 3  Superior and inferior venae cavae. 4  Vessels conveying blood away from the heart include: 5  Right & left pulmonary arteries. 6  Aorta. 7  Vessels that Supply/Drain the Heart (Posterior View). 1 Vessels conveying blood away from the heart include: 2  Right & left pulmonary arteries. 3  Aorta. 4  Vessels that Supply/Drain the Heart (Posterior View). 5  Arteries-right coronary artery (in atrioventricular groove) and the posterior interventricular artery (in interventricular groove).
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium through three major veins: the superior and inferior vena cava and the coronary sinus. The superior vena cava returns all of the blood to the heart from tissues superior to the heart in the head, neck, arms and upper thorax. Blood returning from the veins flows into the right atrium and through the tricuspid valve to the right ventricle. About 70% of the ventricular filling occurs during this phase. The right atrium next goes into systole, or contraction, to pump blood actively into the right ventricle and completely fill it.
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. 
Share to: The veins return blood from the body back to the heart, then out of the heart to the lungs where it is oxygenated, then back to the heart and carried back out into the body by … arteries. The blood in the veins is blue but is seen through you skin as a dark green. 1 person found this useful. 
Function. While veins usually carry deoxygenated blood from tissues back to the heart, in this case, pulmonary veins are among the few veins that carry oxygenated blood instead. Oxygenated blood from the lungs is circulated back to the heart through the pulmonary veins that drain into the left atrium. Once blood is pumped from the left atrium through the mitral valve into the left ventricle, this oxygenated blood will then be pumped from the left ventricle through the aortic valve to the rest of the body’s organs and tissues through the aorta.
Deoxygenated blood entering the heart through veins from the tissues of the body first enters the heart through the right atrium before being pumped into the right ventricle. The right atrium is one of the two atria of the heart, which function as receiving chambers for blood entering the heart. Blood returning from the veins flows into the right atrium and through the tricuspid valve to the right ventricle. About 70% of the ventricular filling occurs during this phase. The right atrium next goes into systole, or contraction, to pump blood actively into the right ventricle and completely fill it.
On the other hand, pulmonary veins are large blood vessels that receive oxygenated blood from the lungs to delivery to the rest of the body. There are 4 total pulmonary veins—with 2 pulmonary veins coming from each lung, left and right—that empty into the left atrium of the heart. Once blood is pumped from the left atrium through the mitral valve into the left ventricle, this oxygenated blood will then be pumped from the left ventricle through the aortic valve to the rest of the body’s organs and tissues through the aorta.
The coronary sinus is a collection of veins joined together to form a large vessel that collects blood from the heart muscle (myocardium). It delivers deoxygenated blood to the right atrium, as do the superior and inferior vena cavae. It is present in all mammals, including humans. The name comes from the Latin corona' , meaning crown, since this vessel forms a partial circle around the heart. It returns blood from the heart muscle, and is protected by a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, the valve of coronary sinus (or valve of Thebesius). The sinus, before entering the atrium, is considerably dilated-nearly to the size of the end of the little finger.
located in the right atrium; runs transversely in the groove between the left atrium and left ventricle, medial to the inferior vena cava opening. Function: deoxygenated blood from the heart muscle itself drains into the right atrium via the coronary sinus. The atria receive blood returning to the heart from other areas of the body. R atrium: receives deoxygenated blood returning to the heart from the superior and inferior venae cavae. L atrium: receives oxygenated blood returning to the heart from the pulmonary vein