Sexually transmitted infections (STI), also referred to as sexually transmitted diseases (STD) and venereal diseases (VD), are infections that are commonly spread by sex, especially vaginal intercourse, anal sex and oral sex. Recent epidemiological studies have investigated the networks that are defined by sexual relationships between individuals, and discovered that the properties of sexual networks are crucial to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
As may be noted from the name, sexually transmitted diseases are transmitted from one person to another by certain sexual activities rather than being actually caused by those sexual activities. Bacteria, fungi, protozoa or viruses are still the causative agents. Recent epidemiological studies have investigated the networks that are defined by sexual relationships between individuals, and discovered that the properties of sexual networks are crucial to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
Prion diseases or transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are a family of rare progressive neurodegenerative disorders that affect both humans and animals. The term prions refers to abnormal, pathogenic agents that are transmissible and are able to induce abnormal folding of specific normal cellular proteins called prion proteins that are found most abundantly in the brain. The functions of these normal prion proteins are still not completely understood.
§5199. Appendix A – Aerosol Transmissible Diseases/Pathogens (Mandatory). This appendix contains a list of diseases and pathogens which are to be considered aerosol transmissible pathogens or diseases for the purpose of Section 5199. Anthrax/Bacillus anthracis. Avian influenza/Avian influenza A viruses (strains capable of causing serious disease in humans). Varicella disease (chickenpox, shingles)/Varicella zoster and Herpes zoster viruses, disseminated disease in any patient.
Sexually Transmitted Diseases Overview (STDs). Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs, venereal diseases) are among the most common infectious diseases in the United States today. STDs are sometimes referred to as sexually transmitted infections, since these conditions involve the transmission of an infectious organism between sex partners. 
Viral Hepatitis. Viral hepatitis is a serious liver disease that can be caused by several different viruses, which can be transmitted through sexual contact. 1  Hepatitis A virus (HAV) causes a short-term or self-limited liver infection that can be quite serious, although it does not result in chronic infection. 
This appendix contains a list of agents that, when reasonably anticipated to be present, require a laboratory to comply with Section 5199 for laboratory operations by performing a risk assessment and establishing a biosafety plan that includes appropriate control measures as identified in the standard. 
Definition. noun. A contagious disease wherein the pathogen is transmissible from one host to another. Supplement. A transmissible disease may be transmitted through direct contact (e.g. blood exchange with an infected host) or through a vector (e.g. contaminated surfaces, fomite, air, foods, animals, etc .). Examples of transmissible disease are AIDS, herpes, etc
Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are very common. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are caused by infections that are passed from one person to another during sexual contact. These infections often do not cause any symptoms. Medically, infections are only called diseases when they cause symptoms. That is why STDs are also called sexually transmitted infections .. But it’s very common for people to use the terms sexually transmitted diseases or STDs, even when there are no signs of disease. There are many kinds of sexually transmitted diseases and infections. And they are very common — more than half of all of us will get one at some time in our lives.