Sloths are identified by the number of long, prominent claws that they have on each front foot. There are both two-toed and three-toed sloths. All sloths are built for life in the treetops. They spend nearly all of their time aloft, hanging from branches with a powerful grip aided by their long claws. Sloths mate and give birth while hanging in the trees. Three-toed sloth babies are often seen clinging to their mothers—they travel by hanging on to them for the first nine months of their lives. On land, sloths' weak hind legs provide no power and their long claws are a hindrance.
A sloth in the wild would normally live about 10-20 years but a sloth in captivity would live alot longer 30-40 years. the exact age of a sloth bear is yet to be determined but they have lived upto 40 years in zoos which though cant be a measure of the life span of sloth bear under natur … al circumstances. 5 people found this useful. Answered.
They can move at a marginally higher speed if they are in immediate danger from a predator (4 m or 13 ft per minute for the three-toed sloth), but they burn large amounts of energy doing so. Their specialised hands and feet have long, curved claws to allow them to hang upside down from branches without effort. The living sloths belong to one of two families, known as the Megalonychidae (two-toed sloths) and the Bradypodidae (three-toed sloths). All living sloths have in fact three toes; the two-toed sloths, however, have only two fingers.
Sloths in captivity sleep from 15 to 20 hours per day, which can leave them very little time for social activities. Sloths in the wild, though, sleep about as much as humans, according to research by the Planck Institute for Ornithology in Starnberg, Germany. Sloths can climb only 6 to 8 feet (1.8 to 2.4 meters) per minute. Sloths are excellent swimmers. Like humans, they can do the breaststroke with ease. To get to the rivers for a swim, sloths will drop themselves off of branches into the water.
Sloths are extremely slow-moving mammals found in the rainforest canopies of Central and South America. There are two species of sloths:two-toed and three-toed. Most sloths are about the size of a small dog and they have short, flat flat heads. Their hair is grayish brown but, at times they look grey-green in color because they move so slowly that tiny camouflaging algae grow all over their coats. 
They use their long claws to hang onto branches while they feast on the leaves that other animals can't reach. Unfortunately for the sloth, their long claws — 3 to 4 inches (8 to 10 centimeters) — make walking on the ground difficult, so they spend most of their time in the tall trees they call home. There are two categories of sloths. Sloths can climb only 6 to 8 feet (1.8 to 2.4 meters) per minute. Sloths are excellent swimmers. Like humans, they can do the breaststroke with ease. To get to the rivers for a swim, sloths will drop themselves off of branches into the water.
In a nutshell, sloths are slow-moving, nocturnal creatures. They live in trees in the tropical and cloud forests of Central and South America. Their curved, sharp claws are 3 to 4 inches (8 to 10 centimeters) long. These claws are handy for hanging onto tree branches but make walking on the ground awkward. 
Baby sloths have a gestation of five to six months for some types sloths and as much as 11.5 months for others, such as the Hoffman's two-toed sloth. After they are born, the babies aren't in a hurry to leave their mother. They ride around clinging to their mother's belly for several weeks after birth. Sloths can climb only 6 to 8 feet (1.8 to 2.4 meters) per minute. Sloths are excellent swimmers. Like humans, they can do the breaststroke with ease. To get to the rivers for a swim, sloths will drop themselves off of branches into the water.
1 May keep a close association for up to two years. 2  Two-toed sloths reach sexual maturity at approximately three years of age (females) and four to five years old (males). 3  External genitalia small and inconspicuous (sexing is difficult). 4  Two-toed sloths live 10 to 15 years in the wild and over 30 years in zoos. 1 Two-toed sloths reach sexual maturity at approximately three years of age (females) and four to five years old (males). 2  External genitalia small and inconspicuous (sexing is difficult). 3
Sloths are identified by the number of long, prominent claws that they have on each front foot. There are both two-toed and three-toed sloths. All sloths are built for life in the treetops. They spend nearly all of their time aloft, hanging from branches with a powerful grip aided by their long claws.