How Contagious is Strep Throat. Coming straight to the point, strep throat is highly contagious, i.e., it can easily spread from one person to the other. Coming directly in contact with the bodily fluids of the person suffering from strep throat, can lead to the transmission of the disease. Red spots on the back of the throat or reddening of the throat are the prominent symptoms of strep throat. Apart from these, the other symptoms include difficulty in swallowing, nausea, fever, headache, stomach ache (in some cases), fatigue, etc.
Strep throat is an infection of the throat and tonsils caused by Streptococcus bacteria. Although this infection is commonly seen in children and teenagers, people of any age group can contract it. It generally lasts for a week. Strep throat is severer than sore throat. Red spots on the back of the throat or reddening of the throat are the prominent symptoms of strep throat. Apart from these, the other symptoms include difficulty in swallowing, nausea, fever, headache, stomach ache (in some cases), fatigue, etc.
On taking antibiotics, the infection stops being contagious within 24 hours. If a person suffering from strep throat fails to get it diagnosed and treated immediately, the infection can remain contagious for up to 2-4 weeks. Red spots on the back of the throat or reddening of the throat are the prominent symptoms of strep throat. Apart from these, the other symptoms include difficulty in swallowing, nausea, fever, headache, stomach ache (in some cases), fatigue, etc.
Yes, strep throat is contagious. The most common way to catch strep throat is by contact with an infected person. Close contact with airborne droplets of an infected individual is the most common way of catching Streptococcus infection.
Strep throat is a contagious illness that is spread from person-to-person. It is usually transmitted by close contact with the saliva or nasal secretions from an infected individual, typically in the form of airborne respiratory droplets. 
Answer: Strep throat is contagious. You can pass strep throat by coughing, sneezing. And the most likely cause of passing strep throat, or any infection, is hand-to-hand. Frequent hand washing helps cut down the spread of infection, so that is an important piece to do when viruses and colds and strep throat is going around your office.
Patient Comments Read 7 Comments Share Your Story. Strep throat is a contagious disease caused by infection with streptococcal bacteria, which causes inflammation and swelling of the mucous membranes lining the back of the throat and the tonsils. Though strep throat is the most common bacterial cause of sore throat, it is important to note that most cases of sore throat are in fact due to a viral infection (caused by a virus). A viral sore throat typically improves on its own and does not require treatment with antibiotics.
Strep throat facts. 1  Most sore throats are caused by viruses, not strep bacteria. 2  Symptoms of strep throat in middle-age children and adolescents include: 3  Sore throat (90%). 4  Headache (85%). 5  Fever (85%). 6  Upset stomach (65%). 7  Symptoms associated with an upper respiratory infection (a  cold ) are typically absent (for example, nasal congestion, ... 8  T 
Strep throat (an infection of the throat caused by group A streptococcus bacteria, also called Streptococcus pyogenes) is most contagious starting a few days before symptoms show up and decreases after a person has been on antibiotics for at least 24 hours. Caused by group A strep infection, the illness causes fever, sore throat, white spots on the tonsils, swollen lymph nodes, a bright-red strawberry tongue, and a tell-tale red rash that starts on the abdomen and spreads throughout the body within two days.
In the past, when people had signs of strep -- the red, raw throat, spikes in fever, and white spots on the tongue and tonsils -- doctors would culture a specimen from the patient's throat and wait 24 hours to 48 hours for the results. If the test indicated streptococcus, the patient could then start taking antibiotics. 