anon48371: I don't know exactly what kind of lizard it was, but it wasn't poisonous. The only venomous lizard in the U.S. is the gila monster and they live in areas like Arizona and New Mexico. Even then, bites from those lizards are rare. Lizards are reptiles, which means they are cold-blooded, lay eggs, and covered by scales instead of feathers or fur. Some live in trees, underground, on the banks of rivers, or in the desert.
By 2005, the lizard found a way into Indiana and got a foothold at the Falls of the Ohio State Park in Clarksville, just north of Louisville, Ky. There, the Lazarus lizard thrived and began to push out native species, including other lizards and skinks. Indiana's reaction was swift and severe. European wall lizards adapted well and then started to spread. Indiana stamped them out to save competing species, and some officials worry about whether they're in Columbus. CINCINNATI -- There are pockets of this hilly city where sleek little Italian imports cruise the streets.
While this makes sense from a scientific standpoint, in common English usage, the term reptile is still reserved for the alligators and crocodiles (crocodilians), turtles, tortoises, lizards, snakes, and the tuatara, a lizard-like animal found only on several tiny islands off the coast of New Zealand. Unlike snakes, lizards usually have four legs, external ear openings, and movable eyelids. Instead of the snake’s single row of ventral scales, lizards have several rows of scales on their undersides.Male lizards and snakes are unique among vertebrates in having two copulatory organs.
If you see a wild turtle in Ohio, it’s probably not this species. Apparently a few specimens have been seen in northeastern Ohio, but we’re on the fringe of its range. The carapace (upper shell) ranges from 6.3 to 9.8 inches long and is brown to grayish-brown in color. 
Unlike most ancient species of wildlife, which have either become extinct or evolved greatly in form, turtles have remained relatively unchanged through the ages.In Europe, these reptiles were originally classified as tortoises (land turtles), terrapins (hard-shelled freshwater turtles), or turtles (sea turtles). Unlike snakes, lizards usually have four legs, external ear openings, and movable eyelids. Instead of the snake’s single row of ventral scales, lizards have several rows of scales on their undersides.Male lizards and snakes are unique among vertebrates in having two copulatory organs.
REPTILES OF OHIO f i e l d g u i d e DIVISION OF WILDLIFE. Photo by: ©Greg Lipps Reptiles have long fascinated people. In recent years, biologists have recognized that the class Reptilia should actually include all of the birds, if it is to include all descendents of a particular ancestral form. This is because crocodiles and alligators are more closely related to birds than to lizards. Unlike snakes, lizards usually have four legs, external ear openings, and movable eyelids. Instead of the snake’s single row of ventral scales, lizards have several rows of scales on their undersides.Male lizards and snakes are unique among vertebrates in having two copulatory organs.
Overview: This exotic species was introduced into Cincinnati in 1951 and has since become well established. Sometimes referred to locally as “Lazarus lizards,” the common wall lizards were brought to eastern Cincinnati from northern Italy by a local resident after a vacation near Milan and were released in a backyard. Wall lizards have a somewhat flattened body with long limbs and toes, an angular head, and a prominent jaw. Their backs are green or brown with black blotches. The belly is lighter in color.
Wall lizard. The mausoleum of Fred Lazarus and family members, Green Lawn Cemetery, Columbus, Ohio. I was down at the cemetery last Wednesday, and snapped this photo as Lazarus is central to this story. Fred was the son of Simon Lazarus, who founded the now extinct F & R Lazarus & Company stores. They flourished in the Queen City, and have come to be known locally as the Lazarus Lizards. Typical wall lizard habitat as seen from Google Earth, this particular neighborhood on Cincinnati's southeast side and not far from the Ohio River. And here we are at street level.