The creative fee is basically a fee just for the photographer showing up and shooting the assignment. The usage fee is based on the type of uses you may need for that image. A creative fee of $300-$500 is very reasonable for headshots, plus additional fees for any images you want to actually use on your card. Be willing to spend the money to get good headshots. It's your calling card
Different photographers provide different options at different prices. With that said, for a strictly headshots only shoot, folks should expect to pay between $200 and $400 depending on the photographer and the options provided. You can always pay less. And, of course, many people want to pay as little as possible for headshots, but truly good headshots are an investment that can easily pay for themselves in the opportunities they create.
Some photographers charge an hourly fee. Generally speaking, you can expect to pay anywhere from $100 to $250 for a standard business headshot, and $200 to $400 for a modeling or acting headshot. If you are in metropolitan area, the cost may be higher. Generally speaking, headshots are provided to clients as a set of files for one pose, enhanced and cropped, in various sizes. If you want additional poses, there will be an additional cost, usually about $100 per image. Again, this varies by locality and photographer.
$750 + tax9. Group/Multiple Pricing: if you’re interested in booking multiple headshots for a business, please contact me for prices. Extras: • Professional Makeup Artist: $150 (headshots), $250 (Comp Card). Paid directly to The Artist. • Basic retouching is included (see above). 
Standard Headshot Session - $200. -Your purchase includes one high-resolution digital download of your best photo. This photo is processed and edited in Photoshop for optimal color, brightness, contrast, clarity, and white-balance. Light blemish retouching (if needed) is also included. -Same as the Standard Headshot Session + the digital download of all your best photos (usually 20-40 images) in high-resolution. -Your photos will be processed and edited in Photoshop for optimal color, brightness, contrast, clarity, and white-balance. Light blemish retouching (if needed) is also included for one image.
Best Answer: Photographer fees are based on many factors, and a professional photographer is going to charge a lot more than a weekend amateur who'll shoot headshots for $50. Most photographers charge a creative fee and a usage fee for the photo shoot. A creative fee of $300-$500 is very reasonable for headshots, plus additional fees for any images you want to actually use on your card. Be willing to spend the money to get good headshots.
In this post, we’ll talk about head shot, or professional portrait, pricing. Depending on the photographer, a headshot session can be as little as $50 and can go up to $500 or more. As with any other service, you get what you pay for. The $50 head shot photographer is likely new to the business and/or unsure of her skills. 
Basic Headshot Package: $400 Men. $450 Women*. This is one of the most affordable prices for a professional headshot package in NYC. With my Basic Headshot Package we'll get right to the point, jump in and get some great images.
For businesses seeking the highest quality headshots for their employees. -1-4 people - $250/person-5-10 people - $225/person-11-50 people - $200/person-51+ people - $175/person. *Only need one photo of each person? Subtract $50 from any of the above prices in Option 1. -Same as the Standard Headshot Session + the digital download of all your best photos (usually 20-40 images) in high-resolution. -Your photos will be processed and edited in Photoshop for optimal color, brightness, contrast, clarity, and white-balance. Light blemish retouching (if needed) is also included for one image.
Best Answer: It really depends on the photographer. Top LA photographers charge can charge over $500, whereas I got my headshots taken from a local photographer at $50 that included a disc with them on it. (they are just as good). 