Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
comprehension-an ability to understand the meaning or importance of something (or the knowledge acquired as a result); how you can do that is beyond my comprehension; he was famous for his comprehension of American literature. self-knowledge-an understanding of yourself and your goals and abilities. Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will [Martin Luther King Jr Letter from Birmingham Jail ]. The ill and unfit choice of words wonderfully obstructs the understanding [Francis Bacon Novum Organum ].
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
HP Releases HPRM8.2 – take a look inside with Kapish. HP release HPRM 8.2, the second major update to HP Records Manager 8. The new version brings several new features and design tweaks to the application that are sure to get your attention. Kapish are going to be racking up the frequent flyer points in the coming months with conferences aplenty. There is a magnitude of tasty treats on offer – Kapish / DocsCorp Lunch & Learn 2015 in Melbourne.
Top Definition. kapish. kapish is formally spelled as capisce (pronounced as cah-peesh) which is derived from the italian word capire to understand and from latin capere to grasp or to seize. it is now used in american slang to say got it or understand..
If you have an understanding of something, you have some knowledge of it, or you know how it works or what it means. The past decade has seen huge advances in our general understanding of how the ear works. The job requires an understanding of Spanish. You cannot use comprehension with this meaning. Understanding has another meaning. If there is understanding between people, they are friendly towards each other and trust each other. What we need is greater understanding between management and workers. Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will [Martin Luther King Jr Letter from Birmingham Jail ]. The ill and unfit choice of words wonderfully obstructs the understanding [Francis Bacon Novum Organum ].
Meaning of Indian name: Kapish. Meaning of the name Kapish is 'Lord Hanuman'. Kapish is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Kapish is '1'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Kapish
Meeting of Minds. (Agreement), noun accord, alliance, arrangement, common view, compact, compliance, concord, concordance, congruence, contract, cooperation, covenant, harmony, meeting of minds, mutual pledge, pact, rapport, unanimity. Associated concepts: express understanding, understanding of the parties. The term understanding is an ambiguous one; in order to determine whether a particular understanding would constitute a contract that is legally binding on the parties involved, the circumstances must be examined to discover whether a meeting of the minds and an intent to be bound occurred.