Step 4: Bake the cupcake recipe and cool. Bake the cupcakes at the same temperature called for in the cake recipe, but reduce the baking time by one-third to one-half (cupcakes usually bake for 15-20 minutes). Check doneness by inserting a wooden toothpick into the center of the cupcake. If the toothpick comes out clean, the cupcakes are done.
Check the cupcakes at the minimum baking time. If the recommended baking time is 18-22 minutes, check them at 17 or 18 minutes (just a quick peek, make sure not to let too much heat out of the oven). If the tops are rounded and no long appear wet, they may be done.
1 Bake for 16-18 minutes. 2  Remove cupcakes from pan as soon as they come out of the oven. 3  Let cool on a cooling rack while you make the frosting. 4  In a large bowl melt the milk chocolate candy bars in the microwave, stirring every 8-10 seconds until completely melted.
Jumbo. 3 1/2 x 1 3/4 inches. If you have only one pan and a recipe calls for more cupcakes than your pan will make, just cover and refrigerate the rest of the batter while baking the first batch. Cool the pan about 15 minutes, then bake the rest of the batter, adding 1 to 2 minutes to the bake time.
When you remove the cupcakes from the oven, allow to cool only a minute or so in the cupcake pan. Then use a potholder to hold the pan, and tilt it so you can remove the cupcakes and place them on a cooling rack. If you leave the cupcakes in the pan, they will continue to bake from the heat of the pan, and can dry out.
1 Fill cupcake liners ⅓ full with batter. 2  Bake for 16-18 minutes. 3  Remove cupcakes from pan as soon as they come out of the oven. 4  Let cool on a cooling rack while you make the frosting. 5  In a large bowl melt the milk chocolate candy bars in the microwave, stirring every 8-10 seconds until completely melted.
Step 1: Choose a cupcake recipe. 1  The easiest way to make a cupcake is to use a cake mix and follow the package directions for cupcakes. 2  Cake mixes come in a variety of fun flavors, such as lemon, German chocolate, devil's food, angel food, and carrot cake.