1 The process living organisms use to release the energy stored in sugar is called CELLULAR RESPIRATION, and its chemical equation is exactly the opposite of photosynthesis: 2  can be burned to release stored energy as well as the waste products of. 1 ALL living organisms burn organic molecules to release the stored energy and use it to drive their own chemical reactions. 2  The process living organisms use to release the energy stored in sugar is called CELLULAR RESPIRATION, and its chemical equation is exactly the opposite of photosynthesis:
1 2 The process begins when glucose in the cytoplasm is broken down into smaller molecules. 2  This releases a small amount of energy. 3  These molecules then move into the mitochondria. 4  At the same time, oxygen enters the cell and travels into the mitochondria. All cells must have energy to function. Glucose and other sugars are cell food—they are the power source for cell activities in almost all living things. When glucose is stored as glycogen or taken in as starch, it must be broken down into individual sugar molecules before cells are able to use it. Chemical energy is stored in the bonds of sugars. When a sugar molecule is broken down, a usable form of energy is released for the cell's life functions. Cells can release energy in two basic processes: cellular respiration and fermentation. Cellular respiration requires oxygen, but fermentation does not
Compare the stepwise oxidation (left) with the direct burning of sugar (right). Through a series if small steps, free energy is released from sugar and stored in carrier molecules in the cell (ATP and NADH, not shown). On the right, the direct burning of sugar requires a larger activation energy. 
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. Carbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both a source of energy to drive this process, and the electrons needed to convert carbon dioxide into a carbohydrate.
Fermentation. Fermentation is the process by which cells release energy without oxygen. Recall that in cellular respiration the cell first breaks glucose into smaller molecules. This releases a small amount of energy. Without oxygen, cellular respiration cannot continue. All cells must have energy to function. Glucose and other sugars are cell food—they are the power source for cell activities in almost all living things. When glucose is stored as glycogen or taken in as starch, it must be broken down into individual sugar molecules before cells are able to use it. Chemical energy is stored in the bonds of sugars. When a sugar molecule is broken down, a usable form of energy is released for the cell's life functions. Cells can release energy in two basic processes: cellular respiration and fermentation. Cellular respiration requires oxygen, but fermentation does not
ACROSS – 1. The gas called _ oxygen _, that is essential to animal life, is released by green plants. 2. During the very important biochemical process called _ photosynthesis _, carbon dioxide molecules are combined with water to form glucose, a simple sugar. 3. Silver, copper, hydrogen, carbon, and helium are different types of chemical _ elements _. 4.
In photosynthesis, solar energy is converted to chemical energy. The chemical energy is stored in the form of glucose (sugar). Carbon dioxide, water, and sunlight are used to produce glucose, oxygen, and water.
The net process of photosynthesis is described by the following equation: 6CO2 + 6H2O + Light Energy = C6H12O6 + 6O2. This equation simply means that carbon dioxide from the air and water combine in the presence of sunlight to form sugars; oxygen is released as a by-product of this reaction. 