The utility is authorized to make such adjustments as needed, according to an approved tariff. Alagasco is not allowed to earn a return on the Gas Supply Adjustment (GSA). That is, the recoveries through the GSA are dollar-for-dollar, and no more. The section monitors all four of these programs to ensure they are conducted in accordance with the approved tariff. If the projected return, based on the budget approved by the Alagasco board of directors, is less than the approved range, base rates are increased December 1 to bring the projected return at the end of the rate year to the midpoint of the range.
“Looking at the last four years, the average annual residential bill for Alabama Gas customers has dropped almost 19% while at the same time inflation has continued an upward trend,” Cavanaugh wrote in a statement emailed to AL.com. Alabama residents must also pay an additional $4 state tax. Small business customers of Alagasco would pay about $2,148 for 165,400 cubic feet of gas. The same amount of gas from the Mississippi company would cost just $971.73, more than a $1,000 less.
USA National Gas Price Heat Map. Now you can see what gas prices are around the country at a glance. Areas are color coded according to their price for the average price for regular unleaded gasoline. Click here for the Canada National Gas Price Heat Map. Search by City, State or Zip. 
Monday–Friday 8:00 AM–4:30 PM excluding holidays. Please have your account number ready when calling. Or Contact Us by email. 
The links below are to pages that are not part of the fueleconomy.gov. We offer these external links for your convenience in accessing additional information that may be useful or interesting to you. 
yesterday. $1.99update. There are 102 Regular gas price reports in the past 5 days in Montgomery, AL. The average Regular gas price in Montgomery, AL is $2.05, which is $0.74 lower than U.S. national average Regular gas price $2.79. The lowest Regular gas price is $1.69 of Entec located at 1024 Ann St, Montgomery, AL 36107.
At those prices, over the course of a year, the Alabama business would pay $14,000 a year more than a similar business in Mississippi for the same amount of gas. Alagasco officials said it was unfair to compare their rates to other companies. “This analysis has no legitimate basis,” said Sherri Goodman, with Alagasco. Alabama residents must also pay an additional $4 state tax. Small business customers of Alagasco would pay about $2,148 for 165,400 cubic feet of gas. The same amount of gas from the Mississippi company would cost just $971.73, more than a $1,000 less.