On a one-story house, it is often best to attach the ledger just below the eaves. On a two-story house, you can usually tie into a band joist (also called a rim joist), located between the floors, as shown below. Find the band joist by measuring down from a second-story window. Remove enough of the siding so you can tuck flashing behind the siding above the ledger and allow it to overhang the siding below the ledger. When cutting wood siding, adjust the blade of the circular saw so it cuts just the siding and not the sheathing underneath. Also, do not let the blade cut beyond the layout lines.
3. Cut a length of metal Z flashing with tin snips to cover the entire length of the ledger board, allowing an extra 1/2 inch to overhang each end. Slip the top edge of the flashing under the siding at the bottom cut edge and secure it with 11-guage aluminum nails driven into the house sheathing. 6. Cut a length of metal drip cap flashing to the same length as the Z flashing. Drip caps direct water away from the house, keeping it from getting behind the ledger board. Slip the flashing under the vinyl siding and rest the bottom lip over the top of
1 Position the ledger board. 2  The first step in attaching a patio roofto a house structureisto place the ledger board at the correct height, horizontal and level with the roof.The ledger board should be fastened securely in place with wall bolts or lag screws. 3  Reinforce with flashing. 1 The first step in attaching a patio roofto a house structureisto place the ledger board at the correct height, horizontal and level with the roof.The ledger board should be fastened securely in place with wall bolts or lag screws. 2
4. Position the ledger board against the bottom edge of the cut section of siding, checking the board is level, and then tack it in place with a few 3 1/2-inch framing nails. Drill pilot holes through the ledger board into the house framing for lag screws. 6. Cut a length of metal drip cap flashing to the same length as the Z flashing. Drip caps direct water away from the house, keeping it from getting behind the ledger board. Slip the flashing under the vinyl siding and rest the bottom lip over the top of
We would like to build a pergola over a patio outside a sliding glass door. I would like it to be attached to the house on one side and 2 posts on the opposite side. The soffit enclosing the rafters comes right above the sliding door so there is no room to attach a ledger board above the door. The fascia board has a gutter attached to it.
Place the ledger against the building and snap a chalk line across the top. It's helpful to have an assistant to keep the ledger level. Cut a wood spacer from pressure-treated wood for every 2 feet of length along the ledger. Use the circular saw to cut the spacers 2 inches wide and 1 1/2 inches thick. Use the drill to make a 3/8-inch pilot hole through the ledger and into the home's rim joist. Place a lag screw and washer into the hole and tighten with the socket wrench by turning clockwise. Cut equal strips of waterproof self-adhering membrane and metal flashing the length of the ledger and 6 inches wide.
1. Locate the rim joist and mark an outline on the siding where you want to position the ledger board using a tape measure, pencil and chalk line. Make the outline large enough to allow space for the combined thickness of the deck boards, the width of the ledger board and any trim on the sides. 6. Cut a length of metal drip cap flashing to the same length as the Z flashing. Drip caps direct water away from the house, keeping it from getting behind the ledger board. Slip the flashing under the vinyl siding and rest the bottom lip over the top of
Ryan McVay/Photodisc/Getty Images. If you are building an attached deck, your first step is to attach a ledger board to the house. The ledger board anchors the deck, creating a reference point for building the deck square and level. 
Installing a ledger board ensures the structural support of your patio cover. A ledger is a pressure-treated board that attaches to an existing wall to anchor a new construction or attachment and support the weight load. Use the drill to make a 3/8-inch pilot hole through the ledger and into the home's rim joist. Place a lag screw and washer into the hole and tighten with the socket wrench by turning clockwise. Cut equal strips of waterproof self-adhering membrane and metal flashing the length of the ledger and 6 inches wide.
A house-attached patio roof takes advantage of the house’s structure by supporting one end of the roof on a ledger mounted horizontally to the house. The ledger, typically a 2 by 6, is usually designed to hold one end of the patio-roof rafters. Remove enough of the siding so you can tuck flashing behind the siding above the ledger and allow it to overhang the siding below the ledger. When cutting wood siding, adjust the blade of the circular saw so it cuts just the siding and not the sheathing underneath. Also, do not let the blade cut beyond the layout lines.