Magma is a complex high-temperature fluid substance. Temperatures of most magmas are in the range 700 °C to 1300 °C (or 1300 °F to 2400 °F), but very rare carbonatite magmas may be as cool as 600 °C, and komatiite magmas may have been as hot as 1600 °C. Most magmas are silicate mixtures. Environments of magma formation and compositions are commonly correlated
1. Rhyolitic magmas have lower temperatures than basaltic magmas. 2. Direct measurements of temperatures at volcanoes give less satisfactory data than might be expected. Measurements of the basaltic magmas at Kilauea vary from 750° to over 1200°, those at Vesuvius vary nearly as much. 3. The temperature of the magma in the lava lake of Kilauea varies as much as 400° depending on depth, escape of gases; and surface reactions, and measurements
Magma often collects in magma chambers that may feed a volcano or solidify underground to form an intrusion. Magma is capable of intrusion into adjacent rocks (forming igneous dikes and sills), extrusion onto the surface as lava, and explosive ejection as tephra to form pyroclastic rock. It may also cool and solidify below the surface. The rocks that form from magma are crystalline and fit into a general category called igneous rocks. Examples of common types of igneous rock include granite and basalt.
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. When the magma solidifies within the earth's crust, it cools slowly forming coarse textured rocks, such as granite, gabbro, or diorite. The central cores of major mountain ranges consist of intrusive igneous rocks, usually granite.
When lava cools it solidifies and can crystallize. Examples of frozen lava are aa, pahoehoe and obsidian, wich is essentially glass (amorphous SiO2) with varying degrees of impurities. Glass is technically not a mineral, because it doesn't have an atomic lattice like the minerals in a rock do. 
Magma often collects in magma chambers that may feed a volcano or solidify underground to form an intrusion. Magma is capable of intrusion into adjacent rocks (forming igneous dikes and sills), extrusion onto the surface as lava, and explosive ejection as tephra to form pyroclastic rock. Temperatures of most magmas are in the range 700 °C to 1300 °C (or 1300 °F to 2400 °F), but very rare carbonatite magmas may be as cool as 600 °C, and komatiite magmas may have been as hot as 1600 °C. Most magmas are silicate mixtures.
Magma is a mixture of molten rock and gases below the surface of the Earth that may erupt from a volcano as lava. It may also cool and solidify below the surface. The rocks that form from magma are crystalline and fit into a general category called igneous rocks. Examples of common types of igneous rock include granite and basalt.
When magma reaches the surface of the earth, it is called lava. Since it its a liquid, it flows downhill in response to gravity as a lava flows. Different magma types behave differently as lava flows, depending on their temperature, viscosity, and gas content. 
When magmas reach the surface of the Earth they erupt from a vent called a volcano. They may erupt explosively or non-explosively. 1  Non-explosive eruptions are favored by low gas content and low viscosity magmas (basaltic to andesitic magmas and sometimes rhyolitic magma). 
Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye. When the magma solidifies within the earth's crust, it cools slowly forming coarse textured rocks, such as granite, gabbro, or diorite. The central cores of major mountain ranges consist of intrusive igneous rocks, usually granite.