An annual membership to Sam's Club costs $35 for a business membership and $40 for a household. The deluxe membership program, which offers certain advantages, is $100. 17 people found this useful. 40 reg 35 for businesses There are different price structures for a Sam's Club membership. $40 is the basic membership. $100 is the Advantage Plus membership, which gets cus … tomers added deals and perks. There is also a business level for $35 if you are interested in getting your business a membership
CLICK HERE for a complete breakdown of each store’s prices. But with an annual membership of $45, you would have to shop at Sam's Club at least nine times a year for that fee to pay off – depending on how much you spend during each trip. Bargain shopping expert Shannon Wilburn said she was surprised by the results. Wow, wow, that's amazing, Wilburn said. 
1 A Sam’s Club plus membership for $100 a year allows you to add up to 16 others to the membership and save up to 2% cash back on your Sam’s Club Membership Discovery card. 2  Members will also receive an extra year of protection on warranty and protection plans and receive discounts monthly on items throughout the store. 1 For the business membership, the cost is also $45 a year, and the Sam’s Club Plus membership is $100 a year. 2  To get up-to-date information and details about each type of membership, refer to this official Sam’s Club membership pag
And Sam's Club is not a cheapest-of-the-cheap outlet. You need a membership to shop there, a privilege that comes with a $45 yearly membership fee. That's cheaper than Costco's $55 a year, but it's still an expense. 
Membership not required for select services. Membership Terms and Conditions. * Cash Rewards are only available for Sam’s Plus™ Members. Sam’s Plus Members earn $10 in Cash Rewards for every $500 in qualifying pre-tax purchases with a maximum reward of $500 per 12-month membership period. Cash Rewards are awarded annually and loaded onto the membership card for use in-club, on SamsClub.com or redeemable for cash. 
1 A Sam’s Club membership will cost $45 a year for the basic membership. 2  For the business membership, the cost is also $45 a year, and the Sam’s Club Plus membership is $100 a year. 1 For the business membership, the cost is also $45 a year, and the Sam’s Club Plus membership is $100 a year. 2  To get up-to-date information and details about each type of membership, refer to this official Sam’s Club membership page
40 reg 35 for businesses There are different price structures for a Sam's Club membership. $40 is the basic membership. $100 is the Advantage Plus membership, which gets cus … tomers added deals and perks. There is also a business level for $35 if you are interested in getting your business a membership. 
Pay $45 for a one-year Sam’s Club membership and $20 gift card and vouchers for FREE take & bake pizza, cheesecake squares and photo canvas, along with $200 in savings offers ($85.14 value)! Valid for NEW Sam’s Club members only – no renewals. 1 One-year Sam’s Club Savings Membership (a $45 value), which includes a membership card for the primary cardholder and a complimentary membership card for a spouse or other household member. 2  $20 gift card valid for any in-club purchases.