Biomass. Biomass is biological material from living, or recently living organisms, most often referring to plants or plant-derived materials. As a renewable energy source, biomass can either be used directly, or indirectly—once or converted into another type of energy product such as biofuel. Biomass can be converted to energy in three ways: thermal conversion, chemical conversion, and biochemical conversion. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: biomass (Noun). The total mass of all living things within a specific area, habitat etc. biomass (Noun). Vegetation used as a fuel, or source of energy, especially if cultivated for that purpose.
Biomass energy is organic matter that can be burned or decomposed to be used a source of energy. In a way, biomass energy is a form of solar energy since it receives its original energy from the sun by photosynthesis. This solar energy is stored in plants and is available for conversion into usable forms of energy. 
Biomass is typically used as a renewable energy source. They do this through burning it or turning it into fuel. It still is damaging to the atmosphere though, and to the grounds of where the plant material was collected. The mass of everything thing that is alive. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Biomass is a biolgical matter that is made of living or recently living plants or animal waste that can be used to make energy in many situations. It can also mean the total amount of mass given to a certain amount of species. Biomass is plant minerals and animal waste that is used as fuel
The noun BIOMASS has 2 senses: 1. plant materials and animal waste used as fuel. 2. the total mass of living matter in a given unit area. Familiarity information: BIOMASS used as a noun is rare. 
Biomass is a biological material produced from living or recently living organisms. Like trees, animals, and garbage: The total mass of living matter within a given unit of e … nvironmental area.Plant material, vegetation, or agricultural waste used as a fuel or energy source. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Biomass is a biolgical matter that is made of living or recently living plants or animal waste that can be used to make energy in many situations. It can also mean the total amount of mass given to a certain amount of species. Biomass is plant minerals and animal waste that is used as fuel
Biomass. Definition. noun. (1)The total mass of all living material in a specific area, habitat, or region. (2) Biological material used as a fuel, or source of [energy]. Supplement. Biomass used as fuel may include plant or animal matter, as well as biodegradable wastes. Related phrases: biomass pyramid, biomass fuel, biomass energy.
Biomass is biological material derived from living, or recently living organisms. In the context of biomass for energy this is often used to mean plant based material, but biomass can equally apply to both animal and vegetable derived material. The carbon used to construct biomass is absorbed from the atmosphere as carbon dioxide (CO 2) by plant life, using energy from the sun. Plants may subsequently be eaten by animals and thus converted into animal biomass.