Step 1. Establish a base price. The average cost to cut a lawn is between $20 and $40. Determine a base price for small, medium and large-sized properties. For example, you may only charge $20 to cut the front and back of a small property that only takes 30 to 60 minutes, but charge $40 for a property that takes twice as long to complete. Step 2. Charge more for troublesome areas or extra services. To encourage repeat business, give previous customers a discount for every second or third cutting. For example, customers pay the regular price for two lawn cuttings, and you agree to reduce every third lawn service by $5 or $10.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Small Lawn Mowing project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Mow a Lawn ranges between $0.03 - $0.14 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 
A small front and back yard may be as little as $20 to $25 per week or cut, but the average lawn will likely be anywhere from $30 to $50 per week or cut and a large lawn on a quarter of an acre or more may cost closer to $60 or $70 per week or cut, as of 2011. The Neighborhood Lawn Mower. Another option is hire a teenager in the neighborhood to mow your lawn. He will cost far less than a professional landscaper, but you still have the added convenience. Some may charge as little as $10 to $15 for an average size lawn but maybe not even more than $25 or $30 for a large lawn.
How much to charge... a good rule of thumb is $1 per minute. Seriously! If the yard takes you 15 minutes to mow, charge $15. If it takes you 30 minutes to mow, charge $30. SOme questions i have are how much do i charge per lawn, what type of people would usually appreciate getting their lawn cut, and what tools do i need to do a proper job.
1 Per-service: I called a few lawn services in my area, and the most common quote I received was around $60 per service. 2  I had no idea it would cost so much to have someone else take care of my lawn! 3  I’m certainly not paying my son that much, but I’d be willing to pay him $25 per service. 1 I had no idea it would cost so much to have someone else take care of my lawn! 2  I’m certainly not paying my son that much, but I’d be willing to pay him $25 per service. 3  Per-week: Finally, I could pay him a flat rate of $30 per week to take care of the lawn (regardless of how many times he’d have to mow).
You can either charge by the hour or square footage of the lawn. This will ensure that those who have larger lawns will pay more for the service. Don't take a homeowner's word for it over the phone, as your idea of a large lawn and hers may differ, especially if she doesn't know the square footage. 
Do-It-Yourself. If you are willing to cut the grass yourself, the cost is nothing. If you don't already own a lawn mower, you will have to invest in one but the cost of the mower will quickly pay for itself if you compare the cost of hiring a professional landscaper for the job. The Neighborhood Lawn Mower. Another option is hire a teenager in the neighborhood to mow your lawn. He will cost far less than a professional landscaper, but you still have the added convenience. Some may charge as little as $10 to $15 for an average size lawn but maybe not even more than $25 or $30 for a large lawn.
I charged people $20 a cut a week. So you're not giving them a bad price. I worked for a lawn care service for 4 years each summer and they charged $120 a house per resident and $300 per business. Remember that some weeks if it's rainy or what-not, you won't be able to cut that week. It's best to just charge them a weekly cost VS a monthly cost