Because Orange and T-Mobile are brought to you by EE, you now use EE’s 3G network, the biggest in the UK – covering 98% of the population. 
From 2 nd March 2015 EE withdrew Orange and T-Mobile plans. This applies to new customers and those wishing to upgrade from an existing Orange or T-Mobile contract. All existing customers will be offered the option to upgrade to a 4GEE plan. If you upgrade early you can get a new 24 month contract with your existing term ‘written-off’. However, the best advice is to delay the upgrade as long as possible so as to get the maximum contribution towards your new phone or flexible tech fund.
Simply DO NOT renew your contract with EE, T-Mobile UK or Orange UK and SHARE IT with others. 2. IF NO SERVICE AT HOME OR BUSINESS PREMISES. If you are locked into a shambolic EE, T-Mobile UK or Orange UK contract then you can get out by proving you have NO SERVICE available at your HOME or your BUSINESS premises. When you initially signed up to EE, T-Mobile UK or Orange UK's disgraceful contract, then they would have kept a copy with your signature on file (although its more difficult if you have taking it online). This is then where you can ask them to show you a copy of this contract just to clear the air.
If you are on Orange or T-Mobile, even though your contract is unaffected, EE will be renaming the network to EE. That means at the top of your phone where it currently says Orange or T-Mobile, this will change from today and over the coming weeks to say EE instead. 
As an Orange plan holder you can easily find out if you’re eligible for an upgrade-all you need to do is log in to your account to check. You can also text UP to 150 to check your upgrade status. Note: You can upgrade to a new phone and plan if you’ve got less than 45 days to go until your contract renewal date. If your account has an outstanding debt on your phone plan you will not be eligible for an upgrade until the outstanding amount is settled. You are not able to move to another price plan with a lower contract value during your contract. As a T-Mobile plan holder you can easily find out if you’re eligible for an upgrade. All you need to do is login to your account or text ‘UP’ to 150.
Experience super-fast connection when you upgrade with EE. Give your smartphone a treat with 4GEE, the UK's fastest mobile internet connection, which allows you to stream, surf and download at lightning speeds. Just take a glance at our amazing range of 4G handsets, available for upgrade on EE today. Download the My EE app onto your phone and get access to information about your bills and mobile usage. Straight from the app. So say goodbye to buffer, and hello to the best movies, TV and music with your new EE upgrade deal. You can upload to EE from Orange, T-Mobile or EE. There isn't usually a credit check, however EE may perform one, at their discretion.
As an EE customer you can easily find out if you're eligible for an upgrade. All you need to do is text UP to 150. You will then get a text message back informing you whether you're eligible, and explaining what to do next. You can also log in to My Account to check your upgrade status. You are not able to move to another price plan with a lower contract value during your contract. As a T-Mobile plan holder you can easily find out if you’re eligible for an upgrade. All you need to do is login to your account or text ‘UP’ to 150.
If you're an Orange or T-Mobile customer, activate your replacement SIM with the links below. T-Mobile customers. Activate your replacement SIM here. Orange pay as you go customers. Activate your replacement SIM here. 
Because Orange and T-Mobile are brought to you by EE, you now use EE’s 3G network, the biggest in the UK – covering 98% of the population. Learn more about the change. By browsing the EE site you're agreeing to the use of cookies. Learn more. 