On a slightly different note, my car will be due it's first MOT on 30th March 2007 as that's when it's 3 years old. Can I get the MOT done on 1st March for example and will the MOT will run out on 30th March 2008 OR (as it's the first MOT conducted) will it end on 1st March 2008? So if you take your car for an MOT and get a pass, then take it again a week later and get a fail, you will still have a valid MOT certificate for the following 51 weeks of the year until your original certificate expires.
Yes you can have your car tested at any time but it will only be valid for 12 months from the date of the test the exception is if you renew your MOT up to 1 month before it expires your MOT will last for up to 13 months. If you are taking your car with you the answer is no you can arrange to have it tested the day you return but it must be pre booked or you can have it tested early but it only runs for 12 months from the date of the test unless it is in the month before the test is due then it will be valid for 13 months.
MOT (Class 4). £29.95. An MOT can be carried out up to one calendar month prior to the expiry date of your existing MOT certificate, whilst still preserving the anniversary of the expiry date. If you have your test carried out a month before the due date, your MOT is effectively valid for 13 months. Example: if your current certificate expires on 20th March, you can take the test between 21st February and 20th March and the new certificate will be valid until 20th March the following year.
On the other hand when your car fails its MOT it means that it is not up to the current acceptable standard, and whilst you old certificate is still in date you will not get done for driving without an MOT. So if you take your car for an MOT and get a pass, then take it again a week later and get a fail, you will still have a valid MOT certificate for the following 51 weeks of the year until your original certificate expires.
car fails the MOT-the original pass is still valid. In fact you can have the Test done up to a calendar month before the expiry date and have the new MOT forward-dated to the expiry date of the existing certificate. So if you take your car for an MOT and get a pass, then take it again a week later and get a fail, you will still have a valid MOT certificate for the following 51 weeks of the year until your original certificate expires.
MOT tests can be carried out on your car up to one month before its due date. If your MOT test is carried out a month early, it will effectively remain valid for 13 months. If you have your test carried out a month before the due date, your MOT is effectively valid for 13 months. Example: if your current certificate expires on 20th March, you can take the test between 21st February and 20th March and the new certificate will be valid until 20th March the following year.
No it doesn't, your old MOT certificate is still valid right up until the day on which it expires. So if you take your car for an MOT and get a pass, then take it again a week later and get a fail, you will still have a valid MOT certificate for the following 51 weeks of the year until your original certificate expires.
You won’t do, by coming in during the month before the expiry date. For example, if your MOT expires on October 22nd, you can come in any time from September 23rd and next year’s expiry date will still be October 22nd. We can’t fail to give you that date either, as the computer does it for us! Take a look at last year’s MOT certificate and you will see the earliest day that the vehicle can be presented in order to preserve the anniversary date. The MOT test often strikes fear into the hearts of many, wondering what expense it will cause this year.
I have just had my car done. It was due on 27th March. The old test certificate said 'To preserve the anniversary of the expiry date the earliest you can present your vehicle for test is 28/02/08.' So it is obviously one month. Report Abuse. you can mot a car up to one month in advance. take to same garage as last mot as they will have a record of the old one and don't know if you go to an other garage whether they will believe you and might put date tested on certificate. firthmuir · 8 years ago.