This classical dance form originated from the state of Tamil Nadu. It has its inspirations from the sculptures of the ancient temple of Chidambaram located near Pondicherry (now Puducherry). Bharatanatyam, as the name depicts is the combination of: The present form of Bharatanatyam as we know it today has been codified and documented by four brothers Chinnayya, Ponnayya, Vadivelu and Sivanandam in the early 19th century. They are also famously known as the Tanjore Quartret. Their dance compositions form the bulk of the Bharatanatyam practiced today.
Bharatanatyam originated in Tamil Nadu (south), while Kuchipudi originated in Andhra Pradesh (mid-east). Bharatanatyam devotes a lot of focus to the aramandi position, or ha … lf-sit. Kuchipudi dancers do not sit as low to the ground. Kuchipudi is thought of as the element of earth, while BN is the element of fire. 
Bharatnatyam. Bharatanatyam originated in southern India in the state of Tamilnadu. It started as a temple dance tradition called Dasiyattam (the dance of the maid-servants) 2000 years ago and is perhaps the most advanced and evolved dance form of all the classical Indian dance forms. The name Bharatanatyam is a simple derivation from the four most important aspects of dance (in Sanskrit). These are: Bha from Bhava meaning emotion, Ra from Raaga meaning music or melody, Ta from Taala meaning rhythm and Natyam meaning dance.
The modern Bharatanatyam was systematically regularized by well known 'Thanjavoor Brothers', Ponnayya, Chinnayya, Sivanandam and Vativelu. Bharatanatyam, also spelt Bharathanatyam, is a classical dance form of South India, said to be originated in Thanjavoor of Tamil Nadu. It was known as Daasiyattam since performed by Devadasies in temples of Tamil Nadu long ago. The name 'Bharatanatyam' is derived from three basic concepts of Bhava, Raga and Thaala. The modern Bharatanatyam was systematically regularized by well known 'Thanjavoor Brothers', Ponnayya, Chinnayya, Sivanandam and Vativelu. The dance is performed in the stage as Nritham, Nrithyam and Natyam.
Bharata Natyam was the dance technique evolved in the South of India in Tamil Nadu and practiced in the temples of Shiva. It is a highly specialised science with a traditional background and rigid codes and conventions. Bharata Natyam skillfully embodies the three primary ingredients of dancing. 
Bharathanatyam (Tamil: பரதநாட்டியம்) is a form of Indian classical dance that originated in the temples of Tamil Nadu. It was described in the treatise Natya Shastra by Bharata around the beginning of the common era. Bharata Natyam is known for its grace, elegance, purity, tenderness, expression and sculpturesque poses. One of the 81 Bharata Natyam dance positions carved on the outer wall of the upper storey of Peruvudaiyar Koyil, Thanjavur. completed in 1010. Surviving texts of the golden age of Tamil literature and poetry known during the Sangam period of ca.
Bharatanatyam is one of the oldest and most popular forms of classical dance that originated in Tanjore district in Tamil Nadu in South India. The origin of this dance can be traced to the sage Bharata Muni’s Natyasastra. Out of these eight, four originated in South India. They are Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, Mohiniyattam, and Kathakali. Bharathanaytam and Mohiniyattam, the main focus of this blog post, are my two favorite dance forms.
Please try again later. Bharatanatyam, also spelt Bharathanatyam, is a Classical Dance form of South India, said to be originated in Thanjavoor of Tamil Nadu. Bharatanatyam, It was known as Daasiyattam since performed by Devadasies in temples of Tamil Nadu long ago. The name 'Bharatanatyam' is derived from three basic concepts of Bhava, Raga and Thaala. The Modern Bharatanatyam was systematically regularized by well known 'Thanjavoor Brothers', Ponnayya, Chinnayya, Sivanandam and Vativelu. The dance is performed in the stage as Nritham, Nrithyam and Natyam.