Saucisse de Toulouse. 168 pages on this wiki. Toulouse sausage (French: saucisse de Toulouse) (named for the French city of the same name) is a small French sausage made of coarsely diced pork flavored with wine, garlic, and seasonings. The sausage is usually braised or fried and is often incorporated into such dishes as cassoulet. This article is a stub. 
Free from colourings, preservatives and additives, Toulouse sausage is 75% lean pork and 25% pork breast, with salt and pepper, all contained in a natural skin. Its pinkish colour and wide diameter of 3 cm give it its distinctive appearance. How to enjoy Toulouse sausage. Whether eaten grilled or in a confit (preserved in fat), in a cassoulet or with haricot beans from Tarbes, Toulouse sausage retains its unique flavour and reveals the authentic taste of the South-West.
Toulouse sausage is a small French sausage made of coarsely diced pork flavored with wine, garlic and seasonings. Toulouse sausage is usually braised or fried and makes a good addition to many dishes such as cassoulet. Categories 1  : Pork sausage. 
Toulouse-style sausages are the classic ingredient in cassoulet, that hearty bean, confit and pork extravaganza that is a hallmark of any self-respecting French cook’s repertoire. Traditional Toulouse sausages are all pork, and are minced by hand rather than ground — a fine option I do myself from time to time. 
Description. In France, there are many versions of the Toulouse Sausage. However, the main ingredients are: Pork, Red Wine and Garlic. We marinate our pork in the red wine for at least 24 hours before adding lashings of fresh garlic, fresh herbs and cracked black pepper. The most famous recipe for Toulouse sausage is the Cassoulet. However Toulouse is great with Pasta and Salads but also, please try those on the Barbecue as they are simply delicious.
The recipe for Toulouse cassoulet. A typical dish of the pink city, Toulouse cassoulet consists of some essential ingredients and some ingredients that vary according to the cook. Of course, there is pork (loin, hock, fresh sausage), but there is also duck confit, bacon, local sausage, and neck of mutton. There are also variants with goose fat confit. 
A local speciality. This fresh sausage was first found at the markets of Toulouse at the end of the 18th century. Try as you might, you will not find it anywhere else, not even in the area around the city. Toulouse sausage is a speciality of the South-West, and carries a prestigious red label. How to enjoy Toulouse sausage. Whether eaten grilled or in a confit (preserved in fat), in a cassoulet or with haricot beans from Tarbes, Toulouse sausage retains its unique flavour and reveals the authentic taste of the South-West.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Encyclopedia Toulouse sausage tortoni toss, to tostada Toulouse sausage Triple Sec Trockenbeerenauslese Turkish coffee Definition: [too-LOOZ] A small French sausage made of coarsely diced pork flavored with wine, garlic and seasonings. 