With over one hundred years of experience and a vocation of continuous innovation, ALSA is integrated into the National Express Group, an international public transport operator running buses, coaches, and railways in the UK, Continental Europe, North America, North Africa, and the Middle East.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord. Motor neurons reach from the brain to the spinal cord and from the spinal cord to the muscles throughout the body.
The Advanced Linux Sound Architecture (ALSA) provides audio and MIDI functionality to the Linux operating system. ALSA has the following significant features: 1  Efficient support for all types of audio interfaces, from consumer sound cards to professional multichannel audio interfaces.
Alsa is a form of the name Alice. The name Alice is a form of an Old French spelling of a greatly contracted version of the German name Adalheidis (possibly Adalheidis to Adelaide to Adeliz to Alice or Adalheidis to Adelais to Aalis to Alice).
ALS, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord. A-myo-trophic comes from the Greek language.
Since July 29, the ice bucket challenge has raised $41.8 million for ALSA, which helps fight amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord commonly referred to as Lou Gehrig’s Disease.
ALSA starts disbursing ice bucket cash by The Non-profit Times. Established at Langley Air Force Base, Virginia, in 1975 just after the Vietnam War, is a joint organization that meets the immediate needs of the warfighter.
Sporadic which is the most common form of the disease in the U.S., is 90 – 95 percent of all cases. It may affect anyone, anywhere. Familial ALS (FALS) accounts for 5 to 10 percent of all cases in the U.S. Familial ALS means the disease is inherited.
For over 20 years the Alsa Paint Corporation has specialized in innovative surface and paint decoration technology. Alsa Paint began by developing and providing specialty spray coatings primarily for the Information Technology industry.