ADHD Medication 101. ADHD medications like Adderall, Concerta, Vyvanse, and Ritalin help many adults and children control their attention deficit symptoms. Learn more about stimulant and non-stimulant ADD drugs, plus their side effects and alternatives. 
Concerta for ADHD. Advertisement. Concerta ® (methylphenidate extended release) is a prescription stimulant medication. Healthcare providers often prescribe Concerta for ADHD treatment. The medication, which comes in tablet form, is designed to be released slowly over time. 
Visit CONCERTA for Children. CONCERTA is a prescription product approved for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as part of a total treatment program that may include counseling or other therapies. IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION. Help Your Child Get on the Path to Success in Managing ADHD/ADD. Everyday activities can be more challenging for a child with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity/Attention Deficit Disorder (ADHD/ADD). CONCERTA can help your child focus at home and at school. It can improve their social interactions.
See Prices. ATOMOXETINE is used to treat attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, also known as ADHD. It is not a stimulant like other drugs for ADHD. This drug can improve attention span, concentration, and emotional control. It can also reduce restless or overactive behavior. 
DrugFacts: Stimulant ADHD Medications: Methylphenidate and Amphetamines. Stimulant medications including amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) and methylphenidate (e.g., Ritalin and Concerta) are often prescribed to treat children, adolescents, or adults diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). 
Concerta is a new medication for ADHD. It is a central nervous system stimulant and contains methylphenidate, the same medication ingredient found in Ritalin. It comes in 18mg, 36mg and 54mg tablets and is intended to be taken once a day. The real difference is in the method of delivery. Concerta is designed to be effective in the body for 12 hours. Ritalin has an effective period of from 4-6 hours. The longer-lasting Concerta is intended to eliminate the need to take medication during the school day. It is important to remember that the only thing new about Concerta is the sustained delivery system
Treating ADHD. There is no cure for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but treatment can help relieve the symptoms and make the condition much less of a problem in day-to-day life. ADHD can be treated using medication or therapy, but a combination of both is often the best way to treat it
1 Methylphenidate (such as Concerta or Ritalin) is often the first choice for treating ADHD. 2  Dextroamphetamine or the combination dextroamphetamine and amphetamine (Adderall) is usually the second choice when the person does not improve with methylphenidate. 3  But either may be the preferred medicine for older children. Most of the medicines used to treat ADHD come with a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warning about possible heart-related or mental problems. Before starting a medicine for ADHD, tell your doctor if your child or you have any heart problems, heart defects, or mental health problems.