White lines on nails most commonly appear as random white lines or streaks. They are caused by minor, often imperceptible, trauma to the nail. Random white lines can be found on any nail, are usually different shapes and sizes, and move along the nail, unchanged, as the nail grows. Muehrcke Lines. In some instances, white lines on the nails appear as a pair of parallel lines that run horizontally across the nail, from one side to the other. These lines -- known as Muehrcke lines -- stay in the same place and do not move when the nail grows.
Mees lines are an uncommon cause of white lines on the nails. They are tiny breaks in the nail, which move up the nail as it grows. Mees lines also run horizontally across the nail, but they may or may not extend the whole way from one side to the other. Mees lines do not disappear when the nail is squeezed. Muehrcke Lines. In some instances, white lines on the nails appear as a pair of parallel lines that run horizontally across the nail, from one side to the other. These lines -- known as Muehrcke lines -- stay in the same place and do not move when the nail grows.
If you find that your toenails are flat, it can indicate that you have Raynaud's disease or a B12 deficiency. Psoriasis can cause your nails to pit. Various serious diseases cause Beau's lines and horizontal ridges, while vertical ridges can be the result of arthritis. Vertical Grooves On Your Toenails. Vertical grooves can be the result of aging, iron deficiency, and kidney disorders. Rheumatoid arthritis can cause your nails to bead. Toenails that look like hammered brass can indicate hair loss. If the beds of your toenails are small and short, this can indicate heart disease.
Most white lines on nails are harmless and should be of no concern. However, if you have similar lines on many nails or a pair of lines that runs all the way across the nail, these could be an indication of a more serious underlying condition. If you have these types of white lines or if your lines don't go away as your nails grow, seek medical advice from your doctor. Muehrcke Lines. In some instances, white lines on the nails appear as a pair of parallel lines that run horizontally across the nail, from one side to the other. These lines -- known as Muehrcke lines -- stay in the same place and do not move when the nail grows.
Q: Dear Dr. Mao, My toenails have fine white lines running in a horizontal direction, although my fingernails are fine. Do you know what could be the cause of this condition? Mees’ lines, horizontal lines of discoloration, can indicate arsenic poisoning, Hodgkin’s disease, congestive heart failure, leprosy, malaria, chemotherapy, carbon monoxide poisoning, or other systemic traumas.
Beau’s lines are finer than the first two and may result from any severe systemic illness that disrupts nail growth, such as Raynaud’s disease, trauma, or pemphigus. (Pemphigus is a group of rare autoimmune blistering diseases of the skin and/or mucous membranes, and is not contagious). Mees’ lines, horizontal lines of discoloration, can indicate arsenic poisoning, Hodgkin’s disease, congestive heart failure, leprosy, malaria, chemotherapy, carbon monoxide poisoning, or other systemic traumas.
Brittle Toenails. Brittle toenails can be caused by thyroid problems, iron deficiency, circulation problems, biotin deficiency, and impaired kidney function. Toenails that fray or split may be the result of a deficiency in protein, Vitamin C, and/or folic acid, or occur in those who suffer from psoriasis. Vertical Grooves On Your Toenails. Vertical grooves can be the result of aging, iron deficiency, and kidney disorders. Rheumatoid arthritis can cause your nails to bead. Toenails that look like hammered brass can indicate hair loss. If the beds of your toenails are small and short, this can indicate heart disease.