​. 1. Read the signs and know which flags mean it is safe to swim in the sea. ​. ​. 2. Steer clear of the currents; these are areas of fast moving water which are hard to spot. They can be very powerful and drag you out to sea so only swim between the red and yellow flags.
Playing in the sea can be loads of fun, especially on a really hot day! But it's important to stay safe. The Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) has top tips for making sure you enjoy your time in the sea safely.
If you’re caught in a rip, the RNLI’s advice is: 1  Stay calm. 2  If you can stand, wade. 3  Keep hold of your board or inflatable to help you float. 4  Raise your hand and shout for help. 5  Never try to swim directly against the rip or you’ll get exhausted. 6  Swim parallel to the beach until free of the rip, then make for shore.
When you go to the beach (or anywhere) with your kids, YOU are the first and most important line of defense when it comes to their safety. Gone are the days when the beach meant that you can sit in a chair and read a book, or take a nice nap in the sun. You now have to be constantly on guard.
Signs of a rip include: discoloured, brown water (caused by sand being stirred up from the seabed), foam on the water's surface and debris floating out to sea. If you’re caught in a rip, the RNLI’s advice is: 1  Stay calm. 2  If you can stand, wade. 3  Don’t swim.
Every summer, lifeguards respond to thousands of incidents on UK beaches. To stay safe at the seaside, be informed about the dangers and follow these simple tips. Watch a video featuring an RNLI lifeguard explaining how to stay safe on the beach. In 2014, lifeguards from the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) responded to 17,050 incidents, helping more than 19,350 people in difficulty on some of the UK’s busiest beaches.
Safe swimming at the beach. To keep safe you need to remember a few rules: 1  Always swim between the red and yellow flags if it is a patrolled beach. 2  Never swim alone in case you get into difficulty. 3  No, I'm not just talking about sharks and other possibly dangerous sea creatures.