A Property Manager earns an average salary of C$49,333 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Real Estate and Budget Management. Popular Skills for Property Manager. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay.
Course Length-Time Commitment. The building manager course is completed through a Distance Education format also referred to as Home-Study. The course length is 120 hours therefore with 4 hours of study a day, 5 days a week you can complete the course in 6 weeks. This information is given to all RMTI CRM/CBS graduates of our building manager courses. Many years of research have gone into its preparation. This invaluable, proven material will show you how to infiltrate the hidden job market (jobs that are not advertised). Did you know 80% of all jobs are not advertised.
Building Operator, 4th Class-Vancouver. $55,000 - $60,000 + 5% Bonus (A more detailed package is at the bottom) One of Canada’s largest property management companies is looking for a Building Operator... BCjobs.ca - 9 days ago-save job-more... 1  View all Impact Recruitment jobs-Vancouver jobs
In QLD, you don't just turn up and become the building manager. You buy the rights to manage a property, the size will determine how much you have to pay. I know someone who bought the rights, and a managers unit for around 800k and last I heard he's earning around 70k. I ask because the manager in my building seems to work unusually long hours, often 12 hours a day, and sometimes even in on the odd Saturday.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Popular Skills for Property Manager. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay.
HAYS SALARY CENTRE. Welcome to the Hays Salary Portal. Find out salary averages based on your location and seniority level. Learn what employers are offering in their benefit packages and requirements for your specialism in today’s market.
Salary. Operations managers have one of the highest-paying occupations in the U.S., according to the BLS. These professionals earned a median of $96,430 in 2013, with the highest-paid 10 percent earning more than $187,199 per year and the lowest-paid earning less than $46,190. 
Just curious – what would a building manager in a residential apartment building make per year? Let's say it's a reasonably large building with a fair few facilities. I ask because the manager in my building seems to work unusually long hours, often 12 hours a day, and sometimes even in on the odd Saturday.
The Essential Credential. Building Operator Certification® (BOC) is the leading training and certification program for facilities personnel. Our graduates make their buildings more comfortable, efficient and environmentally friendly, thanks to skills they master in our classes. And the BOC credential is just as valuable to building owners as it is to operators. Our graduates help their organizations substantially cut operating costs – as much as $20,000 per year.