All berries are good for you. It's not clear if goji berries are better than other types of berries, or if goji berry supplements have the same health benefits as the actual berries.
The dark berries are the good ones, with a history of treating conjunctivitis, cold and flu symptoms, reducing congestion, relieving arthritis pain, soothing upset stomachs, relieving gas, and for detoxification.
1 When compared to other berries, blueberries are not particularly low in terms of their GI. 2  Studies show the GI for blueberries as falling somewhere in the range of 40-53, with berries like blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries repeatedly scoring closer to 30 than to 40.
Many health claims have been made for goji berries, including maintaining a healthy heart and circulation, boosting the immune system, protecting against cancer and increasing longevity, yet the medical evidence to back up these claims is weak, according to the British Dietetic Association.
by Ashley Macha. Berries are bright, flavorful, and sweet superfruits that have a long list of health benefits. These colorful fruits are high in antioxidants and polyphenols, which help fight chronic disease and cancer. And their health benefits just keep getting sweeter!
Acai açai berries have proven to be a good source of, antioxidants fiber and-heart healthy, fats but research has yet to prove much. Else acai açai can be, eaten raw, in capsules in beverages such, as juice smoothies or, energy drinks and other. Food products it is often sold as a. frozen pulp
The goji berry, also called the wolfberry, is a bright orange-red berry that comes from a shrub that's native to China. In Asia, goji berries have been eaten for generations in the hope of living longer.
In terms of U.S. fruit consumption, blueberries rank only second to strawberries in popularity of berries. Blueberries are not only popular, but also repeatedly ranked in the U.S. diet as having one of the highest antioxidant capacities among all fruits, vegetables, spices and seasonings.