Nurse practitioners (NPs) and physician assistants (PAs) are healthcare workers who typically work under the supervision of licensed physicians. However, different specialties are available within these professions, and the roles of NPs and PAs are governed by varying state laws. The Difference Between an NP and a PA. Aspiring NPs and PAs both complete many years of postsecondary schooling, often resulting in a master's degree. However, these professionals serve different roles within their places of work, which might include hospitals, doctors' offices or other healthcare facilities.
Nurse practitioners (NPs) work in a variety of settings. So do physician assistants (PAs). They can both be found in hospitals and clinics, from rural to urban practices. PAs care for a variety of conditions. So do NPs. Students are taught by other NPs, according to the AANP. Like PAs, NPs can practice in a variety of specialty areas. In the end, both NPs and PAs are licensed and accredited by exam. NPs and PAs practice in all 50 states and Washington, D.C., though practice is regulated state-to-state.
Assistant practitioners. Developing the role of the assistant practitioner can help employers ensure they have the right flexible mix of skills to meet complex patient needs, freeing up registered practitioners to deliver what they have been uniquely trained for. The Skills for Health Core standards for assistant practitioners defines the role as follows: “ An assistant practitioner is a worker who competently delivers health and social care to and for people. They have a required level of knowledge and skill beyond that of the traditional healthcare assistant or support worker.
When the patient asks me what the difference is between a PA and an NP, the difference is really in our training and our background, said Physician Assistant Patrick Killeen, president of the American Academy of Physician Assistants (AAPA). Students are taught by other NPs, according to the AANP. Like PAs, NPs can practice in a variety of specialty areas. In the end, both NPs and PAs are licensed and accredited by exam. NPs and PAs practice in all 50 states and Washington, D.C., though practice is regulated state-to-state.
On a very basic level, it is important to know that a nurse practitioner (NP) attends a nursing school while a physician assistant (PA) attends a medical school or center of medicine. Because of this, the philosophies that graduates come out of school with are slightly different. There are many points to consider when looking at these two occupations. Below is a side-by-side comparison detailing more about nurse practitioner and physician assistant job preparation and training, on-the-job frameworks, and pay and career outlook.
When developing an assistant practitioner role, it is important to ensure focus remains on why the role is required, the role relationship with others in the immediate and multi-disciplinary team and what the intended outcomes are. The Skills for Health Core standards for assistant practitioners defines the role as follows: “ An assistant practitioner is a worker who competently delivers health and social care to and for people. They have a required level of knowledge and skill beyond that of the traditional healthcare assistant or support worker.
An assistant practitioner is a non-occupational specific role that has been developed to assist organisations to deliver high quality and patient centred services in a variety of settings. The Skills for Health Core standards for assistant practitioners defines the role as follows: “ An assistant practitioner is a worker who competently delivers health and social care to and for people. They have a required level of knowledge and skill beyond that of the traditional healthcare assistant or support worker.
Another difference between the practice of physician assistants and nurse practitioners is that a physician assistant must practice under the supervision of a physician. 
A Physician Assistant (PA) is a healthcare professional licensed to practice medicine with supervision by a licensed physician. PAs focus on prevention and treatment of human illness and injury by providing a broad range of health care services that are traditionally performed by physicians. Physician assistants exercise autonomy in medical decision making as determined by their supervising physician. Like Medical Doctors (MDs), PAs are educated in the medical model, designed to complement physician training.
Another difference to consider when looking at a nurse practitioner vs physicians assistant career is the areas of specialization that are available. NPs can work in many different and diverse areas, such as geriatrics, mental health, pediatrics and women’s health. There are many points to consider when looking at these two occupations. Below is a side-by-side comparison detailing more about nurse practitioner and physician assistant job preparation and training, on-the-job frameworks, and pay and career outlook.