Settlement with the FTC and Florida Attorney General Stops Operations that Used Robocalls to Fraudulently Pitch Medical Alert Devices to Seniors. The court imposed the judgment after finding Atalla had hid assets and misrepresented his financial condition to the agency. FTC Updates Telemarketer Fees for the Do Not Call Registry as of October 1, 2014. The Federal Trade Commission today announced the winners of its “Zapping Rachel” robocall contest held at the DEF CON 22 hacking conference in Las Vegas Aug. 7-10.
Follow @eggerton. A divided FCC voted Thursday to prevent unwanted robocalls and robotexts, spam and telemarketing calls to wireless phones, making it clear carriers can help their subs block those unwanted communications, including ones that originate as Internet messages. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a robocall is a telephone call made by machine that delivers a prerecorded message. An example of a robocall is an automated phone call that records a political message on your phone. 
ro·bo·call. n. A telephone call made by an automatic dialer, consisting of a prerecorded message, usually of a candidate in a political campaign. [ robo(t) + call 1  .]. Facebook. 
ro·bo·call. n. A telephone call made by an automatic dialer, consisting of a prerecorded message, usually of a candidate in a political campaign. [ robo(t) + call 1  .]. Facebook. 
A robocall is an automated telephone call initiated by an autodialer for delivery of a prerecorded message. Robocalls are used for a wide variety of communications including public service announcements, appointment reminders, marketing, advertising, opinion polls and political campaigns. 
Definition of ROBOCALL. : a telephone call from an automated source that delivers a prerecorded message to a large number of people. ADVERTISEMENT. 
2015 Robocalls: Humanity Strikes Back Contest. The FTC is challenging the DEF CON community to create a tool that people can use to block and forward unwanted robocalls automatically. Forwarded calls will go to a honeypot — a data collection system that researchers and investigators can use to study the calls. 
RoboCall Home. Robocall Law. Robocall laws and regulations exist at both the national and state levels. On June 18, 2015 the FCC voted to approve a new declaratory ruling and order that expands the Telephone Consumer Protection Act's (TCPA) restrictions on robocalling. 