The skin flora, more properly referred to as the skin microbiota, are the microorganisms which reside on the skin. Most research has been upon those that reside upon the 2 square metres of human skin, cf. the human microbiome. The skin microbiome refer to their genomes. Many of them are bacteria of which there are around 1000 species upon human skin from 19 phyla. The total number of bacteria on an average human has been estimated at 10 12 (1 trillion). Most are found in the superficial layers of the epidermis and the upper parts of hair follicles. Skin flora is usually non-pathogenic, and either commensal (are not harmful to their host) or mutualistic (offer a benefit)
The hands are the parts of the human body that are in most contact with the outside world. People use their hands for a variety of activities everyday. It is extremely easy to come in contact with different microbes and to transfer them to other objects and maybe even people. Contain the natural microflora or resident bacteria and microbes and the transient bacteria from the objects that the hands come in contact with. When the hands are unwashed, there are millions and millions of bacteria living and growing on it[5].
Resident skin flora. The resident skin flora is the physiological skin flora, also known as colonising flora. It comprises bacteria such as Staphylococcus epidermidis, propioni and corynebacteria, which do not have a pathogenic effect on the skin. The microorganisms have important functions: their metabolism inhibits the growth of non-resident bacteria and fungi, and maintain the balance between the colonising microorganisms. Around 80 per cent of the resident skin flora is on the surface of the stratum corneum, the outermost layer of the epidermis. Particularly high concentrations of microorganisms are found in body regions rich in sebaceous glands, e.g. scalp, forehead, axillae, front of the chest, and the area between the shoulder blades
Normal Flora. The normal flora are bacteria which are found in or on our bodies on a semi-permanent basis without causing disease. There are more bacteria living in or on our bodies, than we have cells of our own. A human body contains around 10 13 cells. The human body is home to around 10 14 bacteria. One fourth of fecal weight is made of bacteria! The normal flora are particularly important in the large intestine.
On the other hand, the oral flora are the usual cause of various oral diseases in humans, including abscesses, dental caries, gingivitis, and periodontal disease. If oral bacteria can gain entrance into deeper tissues, they may cause abscesses of alveolar bone, lung, brain, or the extremities. Handling and feeding of the infant after birth leads to establishment of a stable normal flora on the skin, oral cavity and intestinal tract in about 48 hours. It has been calculated that a human adult houses about 1012 bacteria on the skin, 1010 in the mouth, and 1014 in the gastrointestinal tract.
(June 2015). Oral microbiology is the study of the microorganisms (microbiota) of the oral cavity and their interactions between oral microorganisms or with the host. Of particular interest is the role of oral microorganisms in the two major dental diseases: dental caries and periodontal disease. 
Transient skin flora. Transient or temporary skin flora refers to the microorganisms that transiently colonise the skin. This includes bacteria, fungi and viruses, which reach the hands, for example, by direct skin-to-skin contact or indirectly via objects. Hygienic hand disinfection primarily aims at deactivating the microorganisms of the transient flora. « Back.