You can pick up all passport application and renewal forms there, submit your paperwork and passport photo, and have your application materials reviewed by trained staff to make sure it's complete. The library will forward applications to the State Department for approval.
Submit your application and pay your fees. Submit your application to the nearest Government of Canada passport issuing office abroad. If you are in Canada, you may apply in person at a Passport office, but you will be required to pick up your passport in person before you leave. You cannot apply at a Service Canada or Canada Post receiving agent.
There are three ways that you can get the application form -- you can pick up the application from a Post Office branch, request that Her Majesty's Passport Office (HMPO) post the application form, or fill out the application form online and have the completed application form sent to you from HMPO.
Beta This part of GOV.UK is being rebuilt – find out what this means. You can apply for, renew or update your passport and pay for it online. You’ll have to print out a form at the end. You must sign and date the form, add any documents or photographs that are needed, and return it for processing. Start now.
Online application tips: 1  Complete the address fields completely. 2  If you are in India, your passport will not be sent back to the United States. 3  When you drop off your application, you can designate if you wish to pick it up or have it sent to you by courier to an address in India.
Applications submitted in the United States. Unless you come to Canada and submit your application at a passport office or receiving agent (Service Canada or Canada Post) service location, you can only submit a passport application from the United States by mail.
If you happen to be in Canada you can apply in person at a passport office or a receiving agent (Service Canada or Canada Post). When you apply in person, you can choose if you want the passport delivered to your address in the United States or you can pick it up for an additional service fee.