Days to Maturity: 60 to 120 days. Young cabbage plants will withstand light frost, and mature ones, moderately severe frost. Harvest and Storage: Cabbage is ready to harvest when the head is full and firm. Cut the stalk at the base of the head with a sharp knife.
Harvest. Cabbage will be ready for harvest in 80 to 180 days from seed depending on the variety or in 60 to 105 days from transplants. Cut cabbage when heads are firm and the base of the head is 4 to 10 inches across.
When growing cabbage, be sure to space the plants 12 to 24 inches apart. The closer you space your cabbage plants, the smaller the head of the cabbage will be. Early varieties of cabbage can be planted 12 inches apart and will grow one to three pound heads. The later varieties can produce heads upwards of eight pounds. Once you learn how to grow cabbage, you will have a great cabbage crop.
Start seeds indoors 4 to 6 weeks before the last frost in spring. Sow seed outdoors when the soil can be worked in spring. Place transplants in the garden when they are 3 to 4 inches tall as early as 3 to 4 weeks before the last frost in spring. In cool-summer regions, plant cabbage in late spring for a fall harvest.
The number of days indicates the time it takes for a mature cabbage head to form under ideal conditions. For example, the variety called Cheers takes 75 days to mature while another green cabbage called Early Jersey Wakefield is ready for harvest about 63 days after planting. Savoy cabbage, which has extra curly, wrinkled leaves, takes a bit longer, with Savoy Queen needing about 88 days to mature.
Red Cabbage-How Long to Maturity. Q. I live in Houston Texas and planted a winter vegtable-red cabbage. Now it's almost May and it still has not matured enought to eat.
Cabbage seed germinates best when exposed to a constant temperature of 65 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit. At this temperature range, seeds will sprout within three to four days. The seed will germinate in a temperature range of 45 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit. Outside of the optimum temperature range, seeds may take anywhere from four to 14 days to germinate.