Hematology is the study of blood and blood disorders. Hematologists and hematopathologists are specially trained doctors who specialize in diseases of the blood and blood components, including blood and bone marrow cells. Hematopathology is not only the study of disease of the blood and bone marrow, but also of the organs and tissues that use blood cells to perform their physiologic functions, such as the lymph nodes, the spleen, thymus, and other lymphoid tissue.
Blood cancers affect the production and function of your blood cells. Most of these cancers start in your bone marrow where blood is produced. Stem cells in your bone marrow mature and develop into three types of blood cells: red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets. In most blood cancers, the normal blood cell development process is interrupted by uncontrolled growth of an abnormal type of blood cell. Over time, these cancerous cells impair your immune system. Myeloma is a cancer of the plasma cells. Plasma cells are white blood cells that produce disease-and infection-fighting antibodies in your body. Myeloma cells prevent the normal production of antibodies, leaving your body's immune system weakened and susceptible to infection
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Hematology, also spelled haematology (from the Greek αἷμα, haima blood and -λoγία), is the branch of medicine concerned with the study, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of diseases related to the blood. Hematology includes the study of etiology. It is essential hematologists look in depth and deliver the message immediately with the right diagnostics. Hematology is a distinct subspecialty of internal medicine, separate from but overlapping with the subspecialty of medical oncology.
A hematologist is a medical doctor who applies this specialized knowledge to treat patients with blood conditions. Learn more about the types of diseases that hematologists study and treat, as well as the importance of having a hematologist as part of your health-care team. When something is wrong with your blood, it can affect your total health. That is why it is important for you to know about some of the common blood disorders that may affect you. People may be affected by many different types of blood conditions and blood cancers. Common blood disorders include anemia, bleeding disorders such as hemophilia, blood clots, and blood cancers such as leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma
Definition: Disorders of the blood and blood forming tissues. Synonym(s): Blood Diseases / Hematologic Dis / Hematological Diseases / Blood Disease /. 
Hematology is the study of blood and blood disorders. Hematologists and hematopathologists are specially trained doctors who specialize in diseases of the blood and blood components, including blood and bone marrow cells. Hematological tests can help diagnose anemia, infection, hemophilia, blood-clotting disorders, and leukemia. To evaluate bleeding and clotting disorders and to monitor anticoagulation (anticlotting) therapies. Bone marrow biopsy is not a common test in general, but is a common test for hematologists. It involves taking cells from the bone marrow for analysis for many types of disease.
Hematology is the study of blood related diseases. It involves treating diseases that affect the production of blood and its components, such as blood cells, hemoglobin, and blood proteins. Hematologists also conduct studies in oncology—the medical treatment of cancer. Clotting or Bleeding Disorders – is when your blood lacks in the amount of platelets or when your platelets aren’t working properly. Leukemia – is a cancer of the blood forming tissues that results in abnormal white blood cells.
Hematology is the study of blood in health and disease. It includes problems with the red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, blood vessels, bone marrow, lymph nodes, spleen, and the proteins involved in bleeding and clotting (hemostasis and thrombosis). When something is wrong with your blood, it can affect your total health. That is why it is important for you to know about some of the common blood disorders that may affect you. People may be affected by many different types of blood conditions and blood cancers. Common blood disorders include anemia, bleeding disorders such as hemophilia, blood clots, and blood cancers such as leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma