Coronary Arteries. Because the heart is composed primarily of cardiac muscle tissue that continuously contracts and relaxes, it must have a constant supply of oxygen and nutrients. The coronary arteries are the network of blood vessels that carry oxygen-and nutrient-rich blood to the cardiac muscle tissue.
Also, the heart is a muscle and needs proper perfusion to supply it with oxygen and nutrients just like all the other cells in the body. Blood flows into the heart only during diastole, and with the elevated heart rate, the heart spends less time in diastole.
The heart muscle is the only muscle in the body which is always working. It cannot stop and rest, because the body requires a constant circulation of blood, to supply the tissues of the body with oxygen and nutrients. The brain can only survive for 3 minutes without oxygen.
Like skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle contractions are strong, and utilise a great deal of energy. Like some smooth muscle, cardiac muscle can contract without nervous stimulation (i.e. it is myogenic) and this enables the heart to be transplanted.
The liver, and here is why: The heart requires cellular respiration to continue beating, as do the muscle cells for flexing. The kidney is a close call, but it actively pu … mps fluids to filter blood, thus requiring cellular respiration as well.
Why does a cardiac muscle cell need oxygen? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. Did you read as kid? What were your favorite books or series? Do cardiac muscle cells have 2 nuclei? The structures that connect cardiac muscle cells are? What organelle is most abundant to cardiac muscles ...
Oxygen is supplied to the muscles via red blood cells. Red blood cells carry hemoglobin which oxygen bonds with as the hemoglobin rich blood cells pass through the blood vessels of the lungs. The now oxygen rich blood cells carry that oxygen to the cells that are demanding it, in this case skeletal muscle cells.
When cholesterol plaque accumulates to the point of blocking the flow of blood through a coronary artery, the cardiac muscle tissue fed by the coronary artery beyond the point of the blockage is deprived of oxygen and nutrients. This area of cardiac muscle tissue ceases to function properly.