A hereditary neuropathy is an inherited (runs in families) disorder of the peripheral nervous system (nerves away from the brain and spinal cord). There are many different hereditary neuropathies. Symptoms of a hereditary neuropathy may include: 1  Muscle weakness (especially in the foot and leg). 2  Foot deformities. 
diseases caused by disturbances in the storage, transmission, and production of genetic information. With the development of human genetics, including medical genetics, the hereditary nature of many diseases and syndromes of undetermined etiology became known. Hereditary diseases are caused primarily by chromosomal and gene mutations; a distinction is made, accordingly, between chromosomal and strictly hereditary (gene) diseases. Mutation results in the disruption of the synthesis of a particular polypeptide (structural protein or enzyme).
Whether, when and to what extent a person with the genetic defect or abnormality will actually suffer from the disease is almost always affected by the environmental factors and events in the person's development. Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. Genetic disorders may or may not be heritable, i.e., passed down from the parents' genes. In non-heritable genetic disorders, defects may be caused by new mutations or changes to the DNA.
Noun. 1. hereditary disease-a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically. congenital disease, genetic abnormality, genetic defect, genetic disease, genetic disorder, hereditary condition, inherited disease, inherited disorder. disease-an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning. monogenic disease, monogenic disorder-an inherited disease controlled by a single pair of genes.
Genetic diseases are disorders that are inherited by a person from his or her parents or are related to some type of spontaneous genetic change. 1 So if a child inherits the disease, at least one of the parents has the disease as well. 2  It is possible for the gene to change by itself in the affected person. 3  This change is called a mutation. 4  Unaffected children of a parent with the disorder have unaffected children and grandchildren.
(October 2008). A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital). Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. Genetic disorders may or may not be heritable, i.e., passed down from the parents' genes. In non-heritable genetic disorders, defects may be caused by new mutations or changes to the DNA.
congenital disease; genetic abnormality; genetic defect; genetic disease; genetic disorder; hereditary condition; hereditary disease; inherited disease; inherited disorder. Hypernyms (hereditary disease is a kind of...): disease (an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of hereditary disease): monogenic disease; monogenic disorder (an inherited disease controlled by a single pair of genes). • HEREDITARY DISEASE (noun). The noun HEREDITARY DISEASE has 1 sense: 1. a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically. Familiarity information: HEREDITARY DISEASE used as a noun is very rare.
The hereditary diseases list is an endless one. However in this article, you can find a few genetic disease examples. Advertisement. Hereditary diseases, also known as inherited diseases or genetic disorders, are diseases that are passed on from one generation to another through defective genes. These diseases are transmitted in the same family. 