Government Grant Money Scams. You don’t need to join the Federal Grant Association to receive a Federal grant. Fall for this telemarketing scam and you could be out as much as $5000. 
New FB scam for sending grant money to people. My page was hacked and I was wondering how a longtime friend got unfriended. When I refriended her it connected to this fake page. AG David Mueller who works for the US Goverment as a grant writer. And they wanted me to fill out a form. They are giving a $12,000 grant to hard working individuals who either own a small business or are thinking of opening one. The grant is available only today, so you really have to get the ball rolling ASAP. You download the form and might even call the phone number listed, for more information.
The scam is designed to trick people into sending money and personal information to Internet criminals. Example. Detailed Analysis. According to this message which is delivered via Facebook's own message system, the recipient has won a cash prize in the 2010/2011 Facebook Grant Award. Facebook message claims that the recipient has won a cash prize in the Facebook Grant Award. The message instructs the recipient to follow a link to the award notification website to claim the prize. Brief Analysis. The message is an advance fee scam. There is no prize.
Of course, in the end, the grants don’t exist and the messages are attempts to steal personal information and money. They said the scam generally works like this: You get a new friend request along with a message, or a message from a current friend with information on free grant money from the government. Often, the message will list other Facebook users who have successfully received money, to convince you they’re legitimate.
Bottom line: The government will never call, email, or text you about free grant money. Grants are very hard to get, and require a lengthy application process. And if a friend of relative tells you on Facebook that they won a sweepstakes or received a grant, call that friend and speak with them personally. There's a good chance a scammer took over their page. That way you don't waste your money.
Watch the video below to see the Grant Through Facebook scam narrated by a victim: Facebook Grant Scam Video. How to avoid: The crooks have everything set up so when you read your sister’s message you notice the fact that she won’t answer her phone, so you know not to call her. They are giving a $12,000 grant to hard working individuals who either own a small business or are thinking of opening one. The grant is available only today, so you really have to get the ball rolling ASAP. You download the form and might even call the phone number listed, for more information.
How the scam works: (with video below) Say you receive a Facebook message from your sister, mom, brother, or just a friend. Not suspecting anything, you start reading: “Hey hon, make time today to apply for this. It’s not advertised publicly. I got the info from someone at work, so I am sure you will get the grant. They are giving a $12,000 grant to hard working individuals who either own a small business or are thinking of opening one. The grant is available only today, so you really have to get the ball rolling ASAP. You download the form and might even call the phone number listed, for more information.
Possible scam using facebook. My Account. Possible identity theft scam using facebook. I received a new friend request from a current friend on facebook. At that time I received a message that was as follows. hello. how are you doing?
Government grants don't come with fees. They aren't approved immediately, either, or via Facebook, like Gibson was led to believe. There usually is a lot of paperwork to be filled out and reviewed. So if you're asked to pay and are approved instantly, it's a scam. 
1 Scammers pressure people to divulge their bank account information so that they can steal the money in the account. 2  Always keep your bank account information confidential. 3  Don't share it unless you are familiar with the company and know why the information is necessary. 4  Don't pay any money for a free government grant. 1 A real government agency won't ask you to pay a processing fee for a grant that you have already been awarded—or to pay for a list of grant-making institutions. 2  Specifically, Federal government agencies and employees never ask people to wire money or use a prepaid debit card to pay for anything.