Salary levels vary widely in accordance with local cost of living indexes, size of employer, and other competitive factors. Typically, large law firms and government salaries are clearly defined and leave little room for negotiation. Know the market area by doing your homework. NALP publishes an annual Employment and Salary Survey which gives starting salary ranges at law firms &mdash;low, average and high&mdash;in varied geographic localities. The Career Services Library has this survey.
There are many job and career field options available to those who earn a degree from the ILR School, including corporate HR, labor relations, labor, government, law, non-profit, consulting, and financial services. Results are available from the most recent surveys of postgraduate activities of Bachelor's Degree recipients and of Master's Degree recipients, showing starting salaries, geographic locations of first jobs, job titles and employers, sectors of the economy into which our graduates were hired, and other information.
Cornell University Salary. Cornell University average salary is $55,952, median salary is $43,672 with a salary range from $20,800 to $936,000. Cornell University salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. 
The following approximations about Cornell alums' salaries over the past several years may be used as a general guide to what you can expect to earn in their settings: 1  Typical starting salaries in private employment (includes large law firms, business and industry): $115,000-$160,000. Know the market area by doing your homework. NALP publishes an annual Employment and Salary Survey which gives starting salary ranges at law firms &mdash;low, average and high&mdash;in varied geographic localities. The Career Services Library has this survey.
The full-time faculty at Cornell University includes 770 professors, 430 associate professors, 285 assistant professors, 5 instructors, and 238 lecturers - 1165 men and 563 women: Please note that faculty rank (e.g. associate professor, lecturer, instructor) is typically assigned by the college itself. We list 29 law schools and colleges in New York City, Albany, Ithaca, Rochester, Brooklyn, Troy, Brookville, and 14 more cities. Approximately 6,400 law diplomas and certificates are awarded each year. Average tuition charges for law programs in NY is approximately $36,000.
$27.00. $18.00. Monthly starting salaries for co-op students, based on a 40-hour week, averaged $3,715, with a median of $3,404. Geographic location, current economic conditions, and other forms of compensation may affect students’ salaries. Salaries are based on students’ first co-op work periods
Faculty monthly salaries at Cornell University vary approximately from $7,000 to $18,000. The average full-time faculty salary at this college is approximately $162,000 a year-which is 49% higher than New York average faculty compensation. We list 29 law schools and colleges in New York City, Albany, Ithaca, Rochester, Brooklyn, Troy, Brookville, and 14 more cities. Approximately 6,400 law diplomas and certificates are awarded each year. Average tuition charges for law programs in NY is approximately $36,000.
14% of the class went directly into graduate studies, with 9% going to law school and 5% pursuing other graduate programs. Graduates of the Master's program earned a mean salary of $84,110 with 89% accepting employment and 9% pursuing additional education. Results are available from the most recent surveys of postgraduate activities of Bachelor's Degree recipients and of Master's Degree recipients, showing starting salaries, geographic locations of first jobs, job titles and employers, sectors of the economy into which our graduates were hired, and other information.
Women faculty members at this school are paid $11,914 a month on average; that is lower than average men faculty salaries - $14,312 a month. Cornell University has a pretty good, 12:1 students-to-faculty ratio. Low ratios usually imply smaller class size, more attention to students, better quality of education, and higher satisfaction both for students and instructors. High ratios are usually a sign of the opposite. We list 29 law schools and colleges in New York City, Albany, Ithaca, Rochester, Brooklyn, Troy, Brookville, and 14 more cities. Approximately 6,400 law diplomas and certificates are awarded each year. Average tuition charges for law programs in NY is approximately $36,000.