Association areas take up an increasingly larger percentage of the cerebral cortex as brain size increases among different species. Figure 2-1e illustrates the increase in relative size of association areas as the brain gets bigger. Association cortex is shown as the pink area outside the primary cortical areas. The surface area of the human cerebral cortex (and monkey's, dog's, and horse's as well) is further enlarged by the sulci and gyri shown by the curving lines on the cerebral hemispheres. Figure 1-2e. Primary and association cortical areas in human and rat. The pink area, which shows the association cortex, is much larger and also takes up a much larger percentage of cortex in the human than in the rat cerebral hemisphere
The cerebral cortex is divided into sensory, motor and association areas. Sensory areas receive sensory input, motor areas control movement of muscles. Association areas are involved with more complex functions such as learning, decision making and complex movements such as writing. The visual area receives visual stimuli and the visual association area helps to interpret those stimuli. It is also involved with memory and recognition. The auditory area receives auditory information. The auditory association area is where sound is interpreted as noise, music or speech.
The anterior association area includes the prefrontal cortex. This part of the brain receives information from posterior association area and helps integrate that info with past experience with the help of the limbic association area. This is colored pink/lavender in the diagrams. These are large areas of the cerebral cortex that receive sensory input from multiple different sensory modalities and various association areas and help make associations between various kinds of sensory info.
association cortex. n. Any of the expanses of the cerebral cortex that are not sensory or motor in the customary sense, but instead are associated with advanced stages of sensory information processing, multisensory integration, or sensorimotor integration. Also called association area. , association areas (ă-sō'sē-ā'shŭn kōr'teks, ār'ē-ăz). 
In the human brain more than two-thirds of the cerebral cortex is buried in the sulci. The cerebral cortex is gray matter, consisting mainly of cell bodies (with astrocytes being the most abundant cell type in the cortex as well as the human brain as a whole) and capillaries. The cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory, attention, perception, awareness, thought, language, and consciousness. The human cerebral cortex is 2 to 4 millimetres (0.079 to 0.157 in) thick. In large mammals, the cerebral cortex is folded, giving a much greater surface area in the confined volume of the skull. A fold or ridge in the cortex is termed a gyrus (plural gyri) and a groove or fissure is termed a sulcus (plural sulci)
The cerebral cortex is the cerebrum 's (brain) outer layer of neural tissue in humans and other mammals. It is divided into two cortices, along the sagittal plane: the left and right cerebral hemispheres divided by the medial longitudinal fissure. The cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory, attention, perception, awareness, thought, language, and consciousness. The human cerebral cortex is 2 to 4 millimetres (0.079 to 0.157 in) thick. In large mammals, the cerebral cortex is folded, giving a much greater surface area in the confined volume of the skull. A fold or ridge in the cortex is termed a gyrus (plural gyri) and a groove or fissure is termed a sulcus (plural sulci)
Association Cortex Association cortex is the cerebral cortex outside the primary areas (Figure 1). It is essential for mental functions that are more complex than detecting basic dimensions of sensory stimulation, for which primary sensory areas appear to be necessary. The surface area of the human cerebral cortex (and monkey's, dog's, and horse's as well) is further enlarged by the sulci and gyri shown by the curving lines on the cerebral hemispheres. Figure 1-2e. Primary and association cortical areas in human and rat. The pink area, which shows the association cortex, is much larger and also takes up a much larger percentage of cortex in the human than in the rat cerebral hemisphere
For example, the visual association area on the lower part of the temporal lobe plays a primary role in your ability to recognize faces, dogs, cars, trees, etc., whereas the primary visual cortex is required for detecting basic features of the visual world: edges, light and dark, location, etc. The surface area of the human cerebral cortex (and monkey's, dog's, and horse's as well) is further enlarged by the sulci and gyri shown by the curving lines on the cerebral hemispheres. Figure 1-2e. Primary and association cortical areas in human and rat. The pink area, which shows the association cortex, is much larger and also takes up a much larger percentage of cortex in the human than in the rat cerebral hemisphere