A blood blister is a kind of blister that develops when tissues and blood vessels in the dermis are damaged without the epidermis getting pierced. Thus, bodily fluids like lymph and blood get trapped underneath the outermost layer of the skin. Blood blisters on the feet are often cause by footwear that are uncomfortable and don t fit properly hence causing pressure. They also commonly appear on the hands as a result of activities that involve intense rubbing against the skin. If a blood blister is punctured, a small amount of dark red liquid comes out.
As the name suggests, there's blood in a blood blister. That's what causes the red, purple, black discolouration. But if you remember from the anatomy of the skin, there are no blood vessels in the epidermis (where friction blisters form). 
Blood Blisters. A blood blister is a type of blister that develops when blood vessels are damaged near the surface of the skin. Blood blisters form after a pinching or bruising injury that does not actually break the skin. Since the blood cannot escape through an open wound, it collects beneath a bubble under the surface of the skin. Blood blisters are caused by a rupture of the blood vessels near the surface of the skin. This rupture develops from injuries that pinch the skin, like getting your toe caught in a door. Blood blisters are also caused by severe force from kicking something hard or stubbing your toe.
Reduce any friction or pressure. If your blood blister is in an area that would normally be rubbing up against something, such as your heel or toe, take precautions to limit the friction against the blister. 
Blood blisters are commonly caused by accidents in which the skin is pinched by a tool, mechanism, or heavy weight without protective gear. Blood blisters can also arise from forcible human contact, including grappling. Blood blisters also may occur with friction caused by constant rubbing of skin against a surface. Because of this, baseball pitchers and drummers often contract blood blisters on the fingers. They also form as a result of frostbite.
Blood Blisters. A blood blister is a type of blister that develops when blood vessels are damaged near the surface of the skin. Blood blisters form after a pinching or bruising injury that does not actually break the skin. Since the blood cannot escape through an open wound, it collects beneath a bubble under the surface of the skin. 
A blood blister is a specific type of blister that is due to damage to blood vessels and tissues just under the skin, which causes blood and other fluids to pool and form a bump. Blood blisters typically form after a strong pinch of the tissues, but there are other causes as well. 
A blood blister is a type of blister that forms when subdermal tissues and blood vessels are damaged without piercing the skin. It consists of a pool of lymph, blood and other body fluids trapped beneath the skin. If punctured, it suppurates a dark fluid. Blood blisters also may occur with friction caused by constant rubbing of skin against a surface. Because of this, baseball pitchers and drummers often contract blood blisters on the fingers. They also form as a result of frostbite.
Blood blisters are a type of blister filled with blood rather than the clear fluid commonly associated with blisters. They are caused by a rupture of the blood vessels underneath the skin’s surface, usually cause by some form of trauma, such as pinching. Like all forms of blisters, blood blisters form on the upper layer of the skin. They are the body’s natural response to pressure or injury. What differentiates them from other blisters is the fact that the trauma caused the blood vessels under the skin to rupture.
A blood blister is a specific blister that is formed when blood vessels beneath the skin are ruptured, but the surface of the skin isn’t actually broken. Ad. The most common cause of a blood blister is a trauma in which the skin is pinched in something, often something like a pair of scissors or pliers, or the hinge of a door or some other object. The blood vessels are therefore ruptured, but in the absence of a pulling or cutting wound, the skin itself is not breached.