In the United States, a chemical peel costs from $600 to $900 on average. However, the cost of your chemical peel will vary widely depending on the type of peel you choose, the cost of living in your region, and other factors, and may be as low as $150 for a light peel and as high as $6000 for a deep peel. Patients should consider that a deep chemical peel requires a longer recovery period that will prevent them from returning to work for at least two weeks. Deep chemical peels cost between $2500 to $6000, which includes consultation, anesthesia, and follow-up care.
1 These chemical peels can range from a lighter peel to a deep chemical peel. 2  The average deep chemical peel can cost a patient anywhere from $200 to as much as $5,000. 3  Keep in mind that there are occasions where the patient is going to need more than one visit to the dermatologist. 1 The main factor for the type of chemical peel is how much damage has been done to the skin. 2  These chemical peels can range from a lighter peel to a deep chemical peel. 3
1 According to TheDocShop.com the cost of a light chemical peel can be anywhere from $150 to $300 while medium to deep chemical peels can cost $1,000 to $6,000. 1 The main factor for the type of chemical peel is how much damage has been done to the skin. 2  These chemical peels can range from a lighter peel to a deep chemical peel. 3  The average deep chemical peel can cost a patient anywhere from $200 to as much as $5,000.
The average cost of a chemical peel is $632, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. The cost of a chemical peel can vary. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, facilities or other related expenses. 
1 A lighter chemical peel costs only $150 to $300 while a medium chemical peel can cost $1,000 to $2,000. 2  An AHA peel is used mostly for a light chemical peel, a TCA is used for a medium chemical peel, and a deep chemical peel is used with phenol. 1 The main factor for the type of chemical peel is how much damage has been done to the skin. 2  These chemical peels can range from a lighter peel to a deep chemical peel. 3  The average deep chemical peel can cost a patient anywhere from $200 to as much as $5,000.
Chemical Peel Cost. If the side effects associated with chemical peels don't scare you, the cost just might. They can range anywhere from $150 to $6,000 or more per treatment [source: Doc Shop ]. If you think that's expensive, grab your seat because the cost of phenol peels, also commonly referred to as deep peels, can range from $2,000 to $6,000, and in some cases even more [source: Doc Shop ]. The prices of a chemical peel vary based on factors such as your geographic location and the extent of your treatment.
The current chemical peel price range is approximately $600 to $900. Possible additional expenses to keep in mind, especially with deep chemical peels, are the cost of anesthesia, use of the surgical facility, and a possible hospital stay. In performing chemical peels, physicians apply alpha hydroxy acids (AHA), trichloroacetic acid (TCA), or phenol to the skin. Typically administered as a facial peel, a chemical peel enhances and smoothes the texture of the skin. It is an effective treatment for facial blemishes, wrinkles, and uneven skin pigmentation.
Chemical peel prices vary by type. For light chemical peels, patients can expect to pay between $150 and $300. Light chemical peels are usually are performed with a solution that contains glycolic acid, lactic acid, fruit acid, or salicylic acid. Patients should consider that a deep chemical peel requires a longer recovery period that will prevent them from returning to work for at least two weeks. Deep chemical peels cost between $2500 to $6000, which includes consultation, anesthesia, and follow-up care.
The final cost of your procedure will depend on the type of peel you want, the condition of your skin, and other factors unique to your case. Light chemical peels can cost as low as $150, while deep chemical peels are generally the most expensive, as much as $6000. In performing chemical peels, physicians apply alpha hydroxy acids (AHA), trichloroacetic acid (TCA), or phenol to the skin. Typically administered as a facial peel, a chemical peel enhances and smoothes the texture of the skin. It is an effective treatment for facial blemishes, wrinkles, and uneven skin pigmentation.
1 The average deep chemical peel can cost a patient anywhere from $200 to as much as $5,000. 2  Keep in mind that there are occasions where the patient is going to need more than one visit to the dermatologist. 1 The main factor for the type of chemical peel is how much damage has been done to the skin. 2  These chemical peels can range from a lighter peel to a deep chemical peel. 3 