1. Vitamin A. Necessary for the maintenance and repair of vital skin tissue, vitamin A is the key to healthy skin. If you’re deficient in vitamin A, your skin may take on a dry, flaky complexion. Get your daily recommended allowances of vitamin A through foods such as sweet potatoes, carrots, and dark, leafy vegetables. Vitamin C can also help reduce wrinkles, improve skin texture, and reduce photo damage. 4. Vitamin E. Use vitamin E on your skin to help reduce the appearance of scars and rough, dry skin. To keep skin looking supple and soft, try adding more nuts, olives, and spinach to your diet, all of which are high in the vitamin.
Certain vitamins and antioxidants may help improve the health and quality of your skin. Research has found that antioxidant vitamins A, C and E, as well as selenium, can help support and maintain healthy skin and may protect the skin against sun damage. 1 Vitamin E: Helps the body regulate retinol levels, which is essential for healthy skin. 2  It is also key for healthy immune system and healthy eyes. 3  Selenium: A mineral that may help protect the skin against sun damage and wrinkles.
Different vitamins and minerals can be particularly good for your skin, helping to rejuvenate it and restore a healthy glow. Some nutrients also serve as antioxidants, which help to reduce the effect of free radicals on your cells. These vitamins and minerals will help your skin look its best. It is possible to receive what you need through balanced nutrition, but supplements can help make up for any deficits in your diet. See the links on the next page for more information.
Vitamin C also stimulates the production of collagen in your skin. Collagen is the protein responsible for making your skin supple. So if you wish to retain smooth and youthful skin then Vitamin C can help. Most fruits are good sources of Vitamin C so try to make fruits a staple addition to your everyday diet. Since Vitamin A also helps the skin rebuild tissues, it is also an essential vitamin when it comes to healing scrapes, wounds and other damages to the skin. Patients who suffer from the skin disease psoriasis are often advised to apply retinoids (a form of Vitamin A) to regulate cellular growth.
Nutrients for Healthy Skin. Of all the news coming from the beauty community, the loudest buzz may be about the power of vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients to give skin a more radiant, healthy, and, yes, youthful glow. http://img.webmd.com/dtmcms/live/webmdNone. The beauty of the skin is that you can affect it from both inside and out, says dermatologist Doris Day, MD, author of Forget the Facelift: Turn Back the Clock with a Revolutionary Program for Ageless Skin. Eating plenty of fruits and vegetables rich in antioxidants is good for your whole body, including your skin. Antioxidants such as beta-carotene and vitamins C, E, and A can curb the damage caused by unstable molecules known as free radicals. These molecules can harm skin cells and cause signs of aging
Overview. Vitamin E is a fat-soluble antioxidant that is essential for the maintenance of healthy skin. Naturally occurring vitamin E is not a single compound; instead, vitamin E is a group of molecules with related structures, some of which may have unique properties in skin. Topical application can also supply the skin with vitamin E and may provide specific vitamin E forms that are not available from the diet. As an antioxidant, vitamin E primarily reacts with reactive oxygen species. In addition, vitamin E can also absorb the energy from ultraviolet (UV) light.
So if you wish to keep lines, wrinkles, dull skin and other skin aging symptoms at bay then Vitamin A may can be of great help. Good sources of Vitamin A include eggs, leafy greens, milk, carrots, pumpkins, liver and more. 2. Vitamin E. Vitamin E is perhaps the most well-known vitamin that is essential for healthy skin. This is because Vitamin E is an effective antioxidant that helps fight free radicals in your body. Free radicals are caused by a number of factors such as smoking, pollution and sun exposure. Since Vitamin A also helps the skin rebuild tissues, it is also an essential vitamin when it comes to healing scrapes, wounds and other damages to the skin. Patients who suffer from the skin disease psoriasis are often advised to apply retinoids (a form of Vitamin A) to regulate cellular growth.
What You Eat Matters. Eating plenty of fruits and vegetables rich in antioxidants is good for your whole body, including your skin. Antioxidants such as beta-carotene and vitamins C, E, and A can curb the damage caused by unstable molecules known as free radicals. These molecules can harm skin cells and cause signs of aging. The beauty of the skin is that you can affect it from both inside and out, says dermatologist Doris Day, MD, author of Forget the Facelift: Turn Back the Clock with a Revolutionary Program for Ageless Skin. Eating plenty of fruits and vegetables rich in antioxidants is good for your whole body, including your skin.