1 Cows should be bred 45 to 80 days after they have calved, depending on age and condition. 2  The optimum bull-to-cow ratio is 1 bull per 10 to 30 cows, depending on the size of the pasture, and the bull's age, promiscuity/libido and experience. 1 Bulls reach peak fertility by 20 months of age, after 20 months of age it can only drop, barring illness or injury, with proper nutrition most bulls fertility will not start to decline until after 6-7 years of age.
Effects Of Age on Scrotal Circumference: Bull age has the greatest effect on testicular development in young bulls from 6 to 36 months of age. There is rapid testicular growth in young bulls (6 through 16 months of age) and tremendous range in testes size for bulls of the same age within breed. More specifically, puberty can be defined in bulls as the age at which the animal is first able to produce an ejaculate containing 50 million sperm with a minimum of 10% motility (capable of motion). It is related to age, body weight and testicle weight.
1 For example, an 18-month-old bull could run with 18 females, and a 2-year-old bull (24 months of age) could be exposed to 24 females. 2  It may be wise to separate bulls based on age if multi-sire breeding pastures are utilized. Cash leasing rates typically average $500 to $700 per bull for a single breeding season; however, this will vary depending on the cattle market and the quality of the bull. Bulls can lose value as breeding animals over time.
1 Bulls should be well developed and at least 24 to 30 months of age before they are allowed to run with 25 to 30 cows during the breeding season. 2  A “rule-of-thumb” for the proper bull to female ratio is one cow or heifer per month of age of the bull up to 30 months of age. Cash leasing rates typically average $500 to $700 per bull for a single breeding season; however, this will vary depending on the cattle market and the quality of the bull. Bulls can lose value as breeding animals over time.
Some bull calves can show libido when they reach 6 to 8 months of age. Some won't show it until a month or so later. Most bulls should be showing libido by the time they are 12 months old. However, all this depends on the breed and each individual bull. Some breeds that are later maturing (typically Continentals), like Charolais, Simmental, Limousin or Salers, won't start showing puberty until they're around 12 to 16 months of age.
A bull will often reach puberty by the time he's around 12 months of age (some a little sooner, if the herd's a good fertile herd), and by this time, as a Yearling Bull, he is ready to be used on heifers or sold to another producer's farm or ranch to be used on the heifers and cows there. Most bulls should be showing libido by the time they are 12 months old. However, all this depends on the breed and each individual bull. Some breeds that are later maturing (typically Continentals), like Charolais, Simmental, Limousin or Salers, won't start showing puberty until they're around 12 to 16 months of age.
Puberty. When bulls reach puberty depends on breed and body weight. Bulls are considered to have reached sexual maturity when their ejaculate contains at least 50 million sperm with a 10 percent motility rate. Breeding Soundness Examination. At least two months before the start of the breeding season, yearling bulls undergo a breeding soundness examination by a veterinarian. That means most yearling bulls are just that, about the age of 13 months.
Often a bull should stop breeding either if he's too old and not fertile enough any more to be used, or if he's become too aggressive and dominant with his handlers to be considered a keeper anymore. There really is no defined age when a bull should stop breeding. What age can you breed a pit bull male? Technically you could breed a male dog starting at about 9 months of age. However, this is a very bad idea-the dog has not finished growing yet and you don't know if he has … bad conformation or traits yet either. Ideally you wouldn't breed a dog until he is at least 3 years old.
1 In general, do not expose a young bull to more than 15 cows or heifers during breeding time. 2  Bulls should be well developed and at least 24 to 30 months of age before they are allowed to run with 25 to 30 cows during the breeding season. Cash leasing rates typically average $500 to $700 per bull for a single breeding season; however, this will vary depending on the cattle market and the quality of the bull. Bulls can lose value as breeding animals over time.
1 The optimum bull-to-cow ratio is 1 bull per 10 to 30 cows, depending on the size of the pasture, and the bull's age, promiscuity/libido and experience. 2  Some bulls, depending on the fertility rate of the cows and how many cows are in heat at one time, can breed over 50 cows in one season. 1 Bulls reach peak fertility by 20 months of age, after 20 months of age it can only drop, barring illness or injury, with proper nutrition most bulls fertility will not start to decline until after 6-7 years of age.