Bipolar is a complex illness. There are many different symptoms -- and several different types -- of bipolar disorder. The primary symptoms of the disorder are dramatic and unpredictable mood swings. The various types of bipolar disorder range from mild to severe.
People with bipolar disorder can have a range of symptoms. Many experience dramatic mood swings, going from emotional highs to emotional lows with more normal moods in between, while others have much milder mood changes.
There are many different symptoms -- and several different types -- of bipolar disorder. The primary symptoms of the disorder are dramatic and unpredictable mood swings. The various types of bipolar disorder range from mild to severe.
Bipolar disorder is a condition in which a person has periods of depression and periods of being extremely happy or being cross or irritable. In addition to these mood swings, the person also has extreme changes in activity and energy levels.
Type: Manic and Depressive. Mood swings are the most common symptom of bipolar disorder and are a combination of the manic and depressive symptoms. A mood swing is characterized by high levels of positivity followed by high levels of negativity and depression or vice versa.
Symptoms of bipolar disorder stem from the episodes of mania and depression (take the bipolar depression test) caused by this difficult to live with mental illness. The severity of the mood swings, and the way they disrupt normal life activities, distinguish bipolar episodes from ordinary mood changes.
Bipolar disorder causes dramatic mood swings—from overly “high” and/or irritable to sad and hopeless, and then back again, often with periods of normal mood in between. Severe changes in energy and behavior go along with these changes in mood. The periods of highs and lows are called episodes of mania and depression.
Mania is a term that describes the emotional highs of bipolar disorder. Mania, or a manic episode, is usually characterized by feelings of extreme energy, restlessness, or irritability. In general, symptoms of a manic episode may include: 1  High energy, excessive activity, and/or restlessness.
Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive illness, is a brain disorder that causes unusual shifts in a person’s mood, energy, and ability to function. Different from the normal ups and downs that everyone goes through, the symptoms of bipolar disorder are severe.