Boron nitride can be doped p-type with Be and n-type with boron, sulfur, silicon or if co-doped with carbon and nitrogen. Both hexagonal and cubic BN are wide-gap semiconductors with a band gap energy corresponding to the UV region. Boron nitride has been produced in amorphous (a-BN) and crystalline forms. The most stable crystalline form is the hexagonal one, also called h-BN, α-BN, or g-BN (graphitic BN). Hexagonal boron nitride (point group = D 6h; space group = P6 3 /mmc) has a layered structure similar to graphite.
Boron nitride has the formula (BN)n, (n is a very large number, but the empirical formula is BN). It forms cubic and hexagonal structures which correspond (analogous) to carbon in the form of diamond and graphite respectively. Hexagonal boron nitride can be made in single layers and can also be formed into nanotubes. Bundles of boron nanotubes are used for wire sleeving. Boron nanotubes are used as a catalyst support, as in the case of carbon nanotubes. Boron nitride is NOT an electron deficient compound like semi-conductors.
Boron nitride has potential use in nanotechnology. Nanotubes of BN can be produced that have a structure similar to that of carbon nanotubes, i.e. graphene (or BN) sheets rolled on themselves, but the properties are very different. Boron nitride has been produced in amorphous (a-BN) and crystalline forms. The most stable crystalline form is the hexagonal one, also called h-BN, α-BN, or g-BN (graphitic BN). Hexagonal boron nitride (point group = D 6h; space group = P6 3 /mmc) has a layered structure similar to graphite.
Figure 1. h-BN powder (photo courtesy of Ceram Research Ltd). Cubic boron nitride (C-BN) has the same structure as diamond and its properties mirror those of diamond. Indeed C-BN is the second hardest material next to diamond. C-BN was first synthesised in 1957, but it is only in the last 15 years that commercial production of C-BN has developed. It is not surprising therefore that boron nitride and carbon exhibit similarity in their crystal structure. In the same way that carbon exists as graphite and diamond, boron nitride can be synthesised in hexagonal and cubic forms.
No, boron nitride is often used as an insulator in the semi-conductor industry. 
Boron nitride is an excellent heat conductor and electrical insulator with overall cost reduction while improving physical properties at lower loading. Meet the need for new and innovative cooling techniques with Thermally Conductive Plastics (TCP) containing Boron Nitride. 
Boron nitride is often referred to as “white graphite” because it is a lubricious material with the same platy hexagonal structure as carbon graphite. Unlike graphite, BN is a very good electrical insulator. It offers very high thermal conductivity and good thermal shock resistance. Boron nitride is a white solid material in the as produced hot pressed form. It is a low porosity solid. It is easily machined into complex shapes using standard carbide tooling.
Boron nitride is a chemical compound with chemical formula BN, consisting of equal numbers of boron and nitrogen atoms. BN is isoelectronic to a similarly structured carbon lattice and thus exists in various crystalline forms. Boron nitride has been produced in amorphous (a-BN) and crystalline forms. The most stable crystalline form is the hexagonal one, also called h-BN, α-BN, or g-BN (graphitic BN). Hexagonal boron nitride (point group = D 6h; space group = P6 3 /mmc) has a layered structure similar to graphite.
The results were reported last week in the online journal Nano Letters. Graphene, touted as a possible successor to silicon in microelectronics applications, is the new darling of research labs that hope to take advantage of its superb electronic properties. Hexagonal boron nitride, on the other hand, is an insulator. Earlier this year, Rice postdoctoral researchers in Ajayan's group found a way to implant islands of h-BN into sheets of graphene, a unique way to exert a level of control over the sheet's electronic character. 