American Hope Resources (AHR). AHR was created to help Americans who are suffering from Financial Hardship get Resources, Discounts, Employment, Financial Aid, Coupons etc. AHR is dedicated to the purpose of supplying information and detailed directions on how to receive and apply for these programs that are available to you.
1 AhR-signaling may be a weak activator of p65-signaling that suppresses p65-activity induced by strong activators of NF-kappaB, but that its anti-inflammatory properties also are due to interference with additional pathways. 2  Suggest highly expressed AhR may perform important roles during endometrial cancer development.
1 AhR is a master regulator of c-raf and propose cross-talk between AhR and the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. 2  evidence presented for regulatory cross-talk between aryl hydrocarbon receptor and glucocorticoid receptor alpha in HepG2 cells.
Ahr is a river in Germany, a left tributary of the Rhine. Its source is at an elevation of approximately 470 metres above sea level in Blankenheim in the Eifel, in the cellar of a timber-frame house near the castle of Blankenheim.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a highly conserved ligand-dependent transcription factor that senses environmental toxins and endogenous ligands, thereby inducing detoxifying enzymes and modulating immune cell differentiation and responses (summary by Moura-Alves et al., 2014).
If you mean the biological gene ahR, it's Aryl hydrocarbon receptor. There is also a river called the Ahr in Germany. Or, in batteries A*Hr is Amp-Hours, a measure of the total amount of energy that can be stored/discharged from a battery.
1 Treatment with AhR activators results in increased expression of the AhR, phosphorylation of p38MAPK and cPLA2, leading to platelet priming in response to agonist. 2  Cynaropicrin is a potent activator of the AhR-Nrf2-Nqo1 pathway, and could therefore be applied to prevention of UVB-induced photo aging.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is believed to mediate the toxic effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p -dioxin (TCDD), polychlorinated biphenyls, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
AHR is an evolutionary conserved receptor that has roles in cell proliferation and differentiation and induction of xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes (for example CYP1A1). The human gene encoding the aryl hydrocarbon receptor has been localized to chromosome 7p15.