the home of the Blarney Stone. Built nearly six hundred years ago by one of Ireland's greatest chieftans, Cormac MacCarthy, and has been attracting attention ever since. Over the last few hundred years, millions have flocked to Blarney making it a world landmark and one of Ireland's greatest treasures. Now that might have something to do with the Blarney Stone, the legendary Stone of Eloquence, found at the top of our tower. Kiss it and you'll never again be lost for words
Blarney Woollen Mills boutique Hotel in Blarney County Cork is located just 6 miles from Cork City and 10 miles from Cork Airport, just off the N20. Our boutique Hotel in Blarney is easily accessible from Tipperary, Limerick and other surrounding counties, making it an ideal location for a short hotel break in Blarney, as part of your journey around the South-West of Ireland or your vacation in County Cork Ireland.
Blarney Castle is in a town called Blarney in the county of Cork, which is in the Republic of Ireland. See the related links below. 
It is located in Blarney Village, about 8 km northwest from Cork City in the southern Ireland. The Blarney Stone is without a doubt the most famous part of Blarney Castle. Also called the legendary Stone of Eloquence, it is located at the top of the castle’s tower. Legend has it that if you kiss it, you’ll be struck with eternal eloquence and you will never be at a loss for words. Blarney Castle history is an intriguing one. It was the third structure to be built on this site. The Blarney Castle in Ireland should be at the top of any traveler’s itinerary. With the intriguing, somewhat eerie Rock Close, the beautiful castle, and the entertaining Blarney Castle history, visitors leave feeling like they’ve touched (even kissed) a genuine part of Irish history and tradition.
Blarney Castle (Irish: Caislean caisleán Na) blarnan is a medieval stronghold In, blarney Near, Cork, ireland and The River. Martin though earlier fortifications were built on the same, spot the current keep was built by MacCarthy maccarthy Of muskerry, dynasty a cadet branch of The kings Of, desmond and dates from. 1446 The castle is now a partial ruin with some accessible rooms and battlements. At the top of the castle lies the Stone of Eloquence, better known as the Blarney Stone. Tourists visiting Blarney Castle may hang upside-down over a sheer drop to kiss the stone, which is said to give the gift of eloquence.
The Blarney Stone. The Blarney Stone (Irish: Cloch na Blarnan) is a block of Carboniferous limestone built into the battlements of Blarney Castle, Blarney, about 8 kilometres (5 mi) from Cork, Ireland. The castle is a popular tourist site in Ireland, attracting visitors from all over the world to kiss the stone and tour the castle and its gardens. The word blarney has come to mean clever, flattering, or coaxing talk.
Blarney Castle (Irish: Caislean caisleán Na) blarnan is a medieval stronghold In, blarney Near, Cork, ireland and The River. martin The castle is now a partial ruin with some accessible rooms and battlements. At the top of the castle lies the Stone of Eloquence, better known as the Blarney Stone. Tourists visiting Blarney Castle may hang upside-down over a sheer drop to kiss the stone, which is said to give the gift of eloquence.
The stone was set into a tower of the castle in 1446. The castle is a popular tourist site in Ireland, attracting visitors from all over the world to kiss the stone and tour the castle and its gardens. The word blarney has come to mean clever, flattering, or coaxing talk.
Welcome to the Blarney Castle Hotel which is a family run hotel since 1837, ideally located in the picturesque village of Blarney, just 10 minutes from Cork City. The Blarney Castle Hotel boasts old world charm and offers superior guest accommodation in Blarney. 