Bean curd is another name for tofu, a product made from soybeans, and sometimes other legumes as well. To make it, a cook curdles soy milk and presses the resulting soybean curds into molds to firm up. 
Curd is used to make cheese. 2. A lump of curd: cheese curds. 3. A coagulated liquid that resembles milk curd. intr. & tr.v. curd·ed, curd·ing, curds. To form or cause to form into curd; curdle. curd. n. 1. (Cookery) (often plural) a substance formed from the coagulation of milk by acid or rennet, used in making cheese or eaten as a food. 2. something similar in consistency.
Definition of CURD for Kids. : the thickened or solid part of milk that separates from the whey after milk sours and is used to make cheese. 
Lemon curd is a rich, tart spread made with lemons. Other citrus fruits such as limes, oranges, and tangerines can be used to create curds as well, although lemon is an enduring favorite. This spread is particularly associated with Great Britain, where it has traditionally accompanied tea since the 18th century. Lemon curd is usually made with lemons, eggs and sugar, though some cooks add lemon zest, butter or whipped cream. A whisk may be helpful in making lemon curd.
Curds are a dairy product obtained by coagulating milk in a process called curdling. The coagulation can be caused by adding rennet or any edible acidic substance such as lemon juice or vinegar, and then allowing it to sit. The increased acidity causes the milk proteins (casein) to tangle into solid masses, or curds. In Mexico, the chongos zamoranos is a dessert prepared with milk curdled with sugar and cinnamon. Albanian gjiza is made by boiling whey for about 15 minutes and adding vinegar or lemon. The derivative is drained 3 to 4 times with a napkin or piece of cloth and salted to taste.
When cooks make lemon curd, they gently cook lemon juice with eggs and sugar to create a very rich custard. The custard can be made even more tart and flavorful with the addition of lemon zest, and it can also be cut for a more soft, creamy flavor with ingredients such as butter and whipped cream. Lemon curd is usually made with lemons, eggs and sugar, though some cooks add lemon zest, butter or whipped cream. A whisk may be helpful in making lemon curd.
curd. 1. When it coagulates, milk separates into a semisolid portion (curd) and a watery liquid (whey). It's the addition of rennet to the milk that makes the individual milk protein (casein) cells clump together to form the curd mass, from which cheese is made. 2. A creamy mixture made from juice (usually lemon, lime or orange), sugar, butter and egg yolks.
Lemon curd is a thick, creamy spread that is made by cooking together lemon juice, egg yolks and sugar. Fresh lemon juice and sugar provide the flavor of the curd, while the egg yolks serve to thicken up the mixture as it cooks, just as eggs thicken up a cooked custard. Most curd recipes also call for butter to be added to the finished curd, just to add a little extra richness and an extra-silky mouthfeel.
Curd is a dairy product obtained by curdling with an edible acidic substance such as lemon juice or vinegar, and then draining off the liquid portion. Yoghurt and curd are two different types of dairy products. These two are two different forms of milk that are created by fermenting milk in some way. Yoghurt and curd play an important part in cooking and diet in many different cultures around the world.
Best Answer: Yoghurt is made from a variety of milks but the term curd usually applies to fermented and thickened buffalo milk. Both products are white with a creamy consistency. Set yoghurt is a smooth, firm, white gel with a characteristic acidic taste made by fermenting cow milk. For curd preparation, milk is fermented with mixed natural lactic acid bacteria for making curd. It is inoculated with culture and fermentation is carried out at the right temperature. Lactic acid bacteria rapidly produces acid which at about pH 4.6 causes the coagulation of casein,