I suppose they would just make sure not to eat anything made with milk dough together with meat products. Many traditional recipies use other enrichments in bread instead of milk and butter. That's why Challa is made with eggs and oil, so it can be eaten with the main meal (which would typically contain meat dishes). Stir until the dough comes away from the sides of the bowl. If it is too sticky add the remaining four 1/4 cup at a time as necessary. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead, turn, and fold until dough is smooth and bouncy (about 8 min) . Cover and allow to rest for 10 minutes.
Dough: Stir down the sponge. Add the sugar, butter, milk powder, 2 cups of the flour and the salt. Stir until the dough comes away from the sides of the bowl. If it is too sticky add the remaining four 1/4 cup at a time as necessary. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead, turn, and fold until dough is smooth and bouncy (about 8 min) . Cover and allow to rest for 10 minutes.
Water is the most commonly used liquid in bread making because it dissolves and activates the yeast and it blends with the flour to create a sticky and elastic dough. Breads made with water are heavier and have a crisp crust and a chewy texture. Milk helps to enrich the dough and the flavor of the bread. It produces a loaf with a creamy-colored, tender crumb and a golden crust. You can use whole, low-fat or skim milk based on your preference. You can also use nonfat dry milk instead of fresh milk and add water for the required liquid
up vote 8 down vote. Milk or milk powder are not strictly needed in bread recipes. There are many formulas that omit it: the minimal ingredients for a loaf are water, flour and yeast; salt is probably essential for a loaf that is tasty. Milk (or milk powder) is a way of enhancing the dough to: 1  Make a softer loaf (due to the milkfat acting as a tenderizer by interfering with gluten production). 2  Add flavor to the loaf. The use of milk powder as opposed to liquid milk may be just for convenience, or because there is sufficient hydration in the loaf from other reasons, so it avoids adding additional water as part of the milk.
Kneading is a process in the making of bread or pasta dough, used to mix the ingredients and add strength to the final product. How-to knead dough. Kneading is a process in the making of bread or pasta dough, used to mix the ingredients and add strength to the final product. Its importance lies in the mixing of flour with water.
1 Dissolve yeast in 1/4 cup water, add the balance of the liquid as milk, slightly warmed. 2  Add 3/4 cup of non-fat dry milk to the dry ingredients; more can be added to increase protein content. 3  Dissolve yeast in 1 cup warm water and then add 1 cup of evaporated milk. 1 Milk solids make the gluten connections in the dough slightly weaker. 2  This creates a bread that has a more tender crumb and a mellower taste. 3  Cultured milk products, such as buttermilk, yogurt, and sour cream, produce moist breads with a flavor similar to sourdough breads.
1 Use warmed skim milk (no fat). 2  Dissolve yeast in 1/4 cup water, add the balance of the liquid as milk, slightly warmed. 3  Add 3/4 cup of non-fat dry milk to the dry ingredients; more can be added to increase protein content. 4  Dissolve yeast in 1 cup warm water and then add 1 cup of evaporated milk. 1 Milk solids make the gluten connections in the dough slightly weaker. 2  This creates a bread that has a more tender crumb and a mellower taste. 3  Cultured milk products, such as buttermilk, yogurt, and sour cream, produce moist breads with a flavor similar to sourdough breads.
Bread is usually made from a wheat-flour dough that is cultured with yeast, allowed to rise, and finally baked in an oven. Owing to its high levels of gluten (which give the dough sponginess and elasticity), common wheat (also known as bread wheat) is the most common grain used for the preparation of bread. 
Bread dough with milk in it is usually softer in texture, which may be a characteristic you desire or not. The true test would be to make the same recipe, one right after the other, one with dried milk and one without and see if you can tell any difference. That same amount is given in a bread cookbook that I have. 
If non fat dry milk is used in bread it must be heated to a high enough temperature during the drying process to destroy an amino acid, glutathione, which weakens the gluten in the dough. Milk contains an amino acid that damages the gluten in bread. Milk contributes liquid to the mixture and additional nutrients to the baked goods. A good source for information on the purpose of each ingredient in bread is below under Related Links.