Columnar jointing in Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland. Columnar jointing is a geological structure where sets of intersecting closely spaced fractures, referred to as joints, result in the formation of a regular array of polygonal prisms, or columns. Columnar jointing occurs in many types of volcanic rocks and forms as the rock cools and contracts. Columnar jointing can occur in cooling lava flows and ashflow tuffs (ignimbrites), as well as in some shallow intrusions. The columns can vary from 3 meters to a few centimeters in diameter, and can be as much as 30 meters tall. They are typically parallel and straight, but can also be curved and vary in diameter
Devil’s Tower (lower image) is one of the most famous examples of columnar jointing on Earth. Although the process—directional cooling and cracking—that formed the columns in Marte Vallis is similar at Devil’s Tower, the setting and source of molten rock are quite different. 
Columnar Jointing. This photo was taken along the west side of the butte. CLICK HERE to see a much larger versiion of this photo. The photo shows the columnar jointing that is evident on the west side near the trail to the top. The columns formed as a result of jointing (cracking) that occurred as the magma hardened. As it hardened, it shrank and the newly formed rock cracked into the neat columns shown in the photo
Columnar jointing forms in lava flows, sills, dikes, ignimbrites (ashflow tuffs), and shallow intrusions of all compositions. Most columns are straight with parallel sides and diameters from a few centimeters to 3 m. Some columns are curved and vary in width. Columns can reach heights of 30 m. 1 Large columnar joints that developed in a cooling lava pond in Mokaopuhi Crater, East Rift Zone, Kilauea. 2  The columns were exposed by a younger episode of collapse of the pit crater. 3  An even younger eruption has buried these spectacular columns.
Columnar jointing. Joints are fractures in rocks, and columnar joints are a specific type of joint pattern. Columnar joints contain aspects of both petrology and structural geology, but the discussion will address only the structural aspect. There are several places in the United States where columnar jointing is exhibited, a few examples are, Devils Postpile in California, Devils Tower in Wyoming (pictured below), Sheepeaters Cliffs in Yellowstone National Park, and Palisades sill in New Jersey.
Columnar joints are defined as parallel, prismatic columns in basaltic flows and sometimes other rocks, and this specific pattern is a result of cooling (Bates and Jackson, 1984). The columns are normally found in shallow intrusive or extrusive igneous rock bodies, generally, basaltic, sills, dikes and lava flows. There are several places in the United States where columnar jointing is exhibited, a few examples are, Devils Postpile in California, Devils Tower in Wyoming (pictured below), Sheepeaters Cliffs in Yellowstone National Park, and Palisades sill in New Jersey.
columnar jointing. (geology). Parallel, prismatic columns that are formed as a result of contraction during cooling in basaltic flow and other extrusive and intrusive rocks. Also known as columnar structure; prismatic jointing; prismatic structure. 1  Facebook
Columnar Jointing. Columnar jointing forms in lava flows, sills, dikes, ignimbrites (ashflow tuffs), and shallow intrusions of all compositions. Most columns are straight with parallel sides and diameters from a few centimeters to 3 m. Some columns are curved and vary in width. Entablature is probably the result of cooling caused by fresh lava being covered by water. The flood basalts probably damned rivers. When the rivers returned the water seeped down the cracks in the cooling lava and caused rapid cooling from the surface downward (Long and Wood, 1986).
Columnar jointing forms in lava flows, sills, dikes, ignimbrites (ashflow tuffs), and shallow intrusions of all compositions. Entablature is probably the result of cooling caused by fresh lava being covered by water. The flood basalts probably damned rivers. When the rivers returned the water seeped down the cracks in the cooling lava and caused rapid cooling from the surface downward (Long and Wood, 1986).