Multipolar neurons are the most common type of neuron. They are located in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and in autonomic ganglia. Multipolar neurons have more than two processes emanating from the neuron cell body.  Fig. 1. Schematic drawing of bipolar, unipolar, and multipolar neurons. Unipolar (pseudo-unipolar) neurons are sensory neurons with cell bodies in spinal and cranial nerve ganglia. (Note: unipolar neurons are sometimes called pseudo-unipolar because they originate embryologically as bipolar neurons.). Bipolar neurons are relatively rare.
Bipolar cells are also found in the spinal ganglia, when the cells are in an embryonic condition. Sometimes the extensions, also called processes, come off from opposite poles of the cell, and the cell then assumes a spindle shape; in other cells both processes emerge at the same point. Bipolar cells are specialized sensory neurons for the transmission of special senses. As such, they are part of the sensory pathways for smell, sight, taste, hearing and vestibular functions.
Bipolar neurons are commonly ________.A) motor neuronsB) found in gangliaC) called neuroglial cellsD. Anatomy and Physiology • Started by Edwindsor • Views: 12 • Last post by ancra (18 hours ago). This topic is currently locked from adding new posts. Only administrators and moderators can reply. 
Three major categories of neurons are recognized: Unipolar (pseudo-unipolar) neurons are sensory neurons with cell bodies in spinal and cranial nerve ganglia. (Note: unipolar neurons are sometimes called pseudo-unipolar because they originate embryologically as bipolar neurons.). Bipolar neurons are relatively rare.
The location of dendrite and axon: If dendrite and axon emerge from same process, the neuron is unipolar. If dendrite and a single axon emerge from opposite ends of the so … ma, the neuron is bipolar. If the neuron has more than 2 dendrite it is called multipolar. + 10 others found this useful. 
A bipolar cell is a type of neuron which has two extensions. Bipolar cells are specialized sensory neurons for the transmission of special senses. As such, they are part of the sensory pathways for smell, sight, taste, hearing and vestibular functions. Common examples are the bipolar cell of the retina, the ganglia of the vestibulocochlear nerve, and the extensive use of bipolar cells to transmit efferent (motor) signals to control muscle
Neurons are found in the brain as well as the spinal cord and autonomic ganglia just outside of the spinal cord. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Avoiding the Loneliness Caused by Bipolar Disorder One of the most common side effects of bipolar disorder is an intense and inexplicable sense of loneliness. 1 How Neurons and Neurotransmitters Relate to Bipolar Disorder Bipolar disorder is a mental health condition thought to be caused by dysfunction of neurons in the brain. 2  Neurons communicate via chemicals called neurotransmitters. 3  Neurotr…. 4  Managing Bipolar Insomnia Bipolar disorders affects millions of Americans yearly
Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). The nucleus of a neuron is located in the cell body. Extending out from the cell body are processes called dendrites and axons.
Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential. Neurons come in many different shapes and sizes. 1 Motor (or efferent) neurons: send information AWAY from the central nervous system to muscles or glands. 2  Interneurons: send information between sensory neurons and motor neurons. 3  Most interneurons are located in the central nervous system.