Your laying hens need certain nutrients, not only to lay eggs, but also to keep the hens healthy and stress free. Protein, carbohydrates, fat, vitamins and minerals are the basic building blocks of a healthy diet. Here is the basic breakdown of what their diet should contain (percent of feed by weight): Too many scratch grains, treats, and fatty foods will create problems for your flock. Because the hens like these foods best, they will consume as much of them as they can, leaving their layer rations in the feed dish. That may lead to thin shelled eggs, fewer eggs, and possibly even no eggs at all!
1. Begin feeding your laying hens layer feed at 20 weeks of age. You can also use all-purpose feed; however, layer feed can have up to 2 percent more protein and more calcium content to promote better eggshells. You will need 18 to 24 lbs. (8 to 11 kg) of feed per week for 10 chickens. 1  You can purchase layer feed in pellet, mash or crumble forms, the choice is up to you. 2  If the eggs turn soft provide the hens with more calcium. 3  Keep in mind that it is common for a hens first egg to be a bit unusual such as double yolks and soft shells. 
Supplemental Calcium. Keep crushed oyster shell available free choice so that your hens may consume extra calcium if they are not getting enough from their feed. If they have oyster shell, plenty of layer feed, and they are laying thin shelled eggs, or very few eggs, try adding more vitamin D3 to their diet. This vitamin is necessary for proper absorption of calcium. Too many scratch grains, treats, and fatty foods will create problems for your flock. Because the hens like these foods best, they will consume as much of them as they can, leaving their layer rations in the feed dish. That may lead to thin shelled eggs, fewer eggs, and possibly even no eggs at all!
It can be costly, to both your budget and your chickens’ health! The University of California-Davis recommends the following for feeding layer hens: 1  Chick starter: 2 to 2.9 lbs. 2  per chick for the first six weeks. 3  Pullet grower: 12 to 13 lbs. 4  per pullet for approximately 14 weeks. 5  Layer feed: 1.8 to 2.4 lbs.
A healthy diet for your hens means healthy eggs for you and your customers. Deep golden yolks. Firm egg whites. Great flavour. Free-range hens fed organic layer mash tend to be healthy birds and lay colourful, tasty eggs. The vitamins and minerals in the feed lead to nutritious eggs. 
Hens also need extra calcium when they are laying lots of eggs. A good recyclable source is to grind up egg shells after drying them and mixing the shell in with their feed. You will probably want to adjust your protein somewhere around the above ranges. Higher rather than lower might be a good rule of thumb. They need less if they are just in the Roo pen waiting. The high protein will help the eggs their hens lay have a higher fertility rate. Fertile eggs mean lots of fuzzy little chicks. Hens need lots of protein too, especially during the seasons when they are laying. Most layer mashes have 16% to 20% protein. My hens get every protein scrap I can find from my kitchen scraps and I even scramble eggs and make oatmeal for them occasionally. They love those treats even more in the winter when they can’t find much on their own
If you’re raising layer hens: From when your chicks hatch until six weeks of age, feed your chicks a starter feed that has a protein level of 20-22 percent. Once the chicks hit six weeks of age, feed them pullet grower (14 to 16 percent protein) until age 20 weeks. After that, switch your hens to layer feed with a protein level of 15 to 18 percent. (MONEY-SAVING SECRET: Layer feed is often expensive. Save yourself some money by substituting 1/2 lb. of grain, such as barley or corn, for 1/2 lb. of poultry ration every day. The University of California-Davis recommends the following for feeding layer hens: 1  Chick starter: 2 to 2.9 lbs. 2  per chick for the first six weeks. 3  Pullet grower: 12 to 13 lbs. 4  per pullet for approximately 14 weeks. 5  Layer feed: 1.8 to 2.4 lbs.
However, don’t feed your hens too much scratch — limit it to 10 percent of your backyard chickens’ diet — as too much grain supplementation can throw their diet off balance and affect egg production. Grit: Your backyard chickens need grit to help grind up their feed. When shopping for chicken feed, choose a high-protein feed that’s been labeled for use on egg layers. Other chicken feeds, such as those labeled for broilers (i.e., meat birds), will not contain a sufficient ratio of ingredients to encourage high