Oil and Natural gases have formed from the remains of plants and sea creatures. they are the result of the action of heat and pressure on plant and animal remains over millions of years, in the absence of air. Oil and natural gas are carbon by-products and a common name for carbon by-products is petroleum. Oil is formed deep under the surface. Petroleum is formed from organic materials. This organic material comes from the remains of dead organisms.
Crude oil, coal and gas are fossil fuels. They were formed over millions of years, from the remains of dead organisms: 1  crude oil and gas were formed from dead sea creatures. 2  coal was formed from dead plants. Crude oil is found trapped in some of the sedimentary sedimentary: Sedimentary rocks are formed when rock fragments are deposited and pressed together. rocks of the Earth's crust.
How oil is formed Oil was formed over millions of years from the remains of dead sea creatures. Once the remains settle down on the seabed, layers of mud and rock covers them. This causes a condition where there is no oxygen for bacteria to grow, therefore meaning that the remains cannot decay. Over the millions of years, the remains, under increasing pressure and temperature from the layers of sediments gradually turn to crude oil. As oil is not very dense, the crude oil can rise through rocks, which are permeable, meaning that liquids can pass through.
Gasoline is made from crude oil, which was formed from the remains of tiny aquatic plants and animals that lived hundreds of millions of years ago. These remains were covered with layers of sediment, which over millions of years of extreme pressure and high temperatures became the mix of liquid hydrocarbons (an organic chemical compound of hydrogen and carbon) that we know as crude oil.
Oil (Petroleum). Oil was formed from the remains of animals and plants that lived millions of years ago in a marine (water) environment before the dinosaurs. Over the years, the remains were covered by layers of mud. Heat and pressure from these layers helped the remains turn into what we today call crude oil. The word petroleum means rock oil or oil from the earth..
Oil was formed from the remains of animals and plants (diatoms) that lived millions of years ago in a marine (water) environment before the dinosaurs. Over millions of years, … the remains of these animals and plants were covered by layers of sand and silt. Oil and natural gas are carbon by-products and a common name for carbon by-products is petroleum. Oil is formed deep under the surface. Petroleum is formed from organic materials. This organic material comes from the remains of dead organisms.
It is generally believed that crude oil was formed from the remains of animals and plants (called biomass) that lived many years ago. Over eons the biomass was covered by layers of mud, silt, and sand that formed into sedimentary rock. 
It was formed when the remains of animals and plants from millions of years ago were covered by layers of sand. Heat and pressure from these layers turned the remains into crude oil. This process is why crude oil is called a fossil fuel. Crude oil is extracted and used to make fuel and other petroleum products. Hydraulic fracturing is one method used to extract oil and natural gas from deep shale formations. Crude oil is a mixture of a wide variety of constituents.
Crude oil [crude oil: Crude oil is formed from the remains of small animals and plants that died and fell to the bottom of the sea. Their remains were covered by mud. As the sediment was buried by more sediment, it started to change into rock as the temperature and pressure increased. The plant animal remains were cooked by this process and changed into crude oil.] - sometimes called petroleum-is found in the Earth's crust. Millions of years ago small animals and plants died and fell to the bottom of the sea. Their remains were covered by mud. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3.