Centrioles are cylindrical structures that are composed of groupings of microtubules arranged in a 9 + 3 pattern. The pattern is so named because a ring of nine microtubule triplets are arranged at right angles to one another. Centrioles are found in animal cells and help to organize the assembly of microtubules during cell division.
Centrosome and Centrioles. A centrosome is an organelle that is found close to the nucleus within the cytoplasm of cells. Centrosomes are key to the division of cells and produce the spindle fibers that are required during metaphase of mitosis. Each centrosome consists of two centrioles that are orientated at right-angles to each other
All animal cells have two small organelles known as centrioles. The centrioles help the cell to divide. Centrioles are seen the process of mitosis and meiosis. The centrioles together are typically located near the nucleus in the centrosome. Centrosomes is granular mass that is the organizing center for the microtubules. The position of the centrosome within the centrosome is at right angles to each other.
Medical Definition of CENTRIOLE. : one of a pair of cellular organelles that occur especially in animals, are adjacent to the nucleus, function in the formation of the spindle apparatus during cell division, and consist of a cylinder with nine microtubules arranged peripherally in a circle. 
In cell biology a centriole (centri- + -ole) is a cylindrical cell structure composed mainly of a protein called tubulin that is found in most eukaryotic cells. Most centrioles are made up of nine sets of microtubule triplets, arranged in a cylinder. Deviations from this structure include crabs and Drosophila melanogaster embryos, with nine doublets, and Caenorhabditis elegans sperm cells and early embryos, with nine singlets.
Quick look: Found only in animal cells and some lower plants, a centriole is composed of short lengths of microtubules lying parallel to one another and arranged around a central cavity to form a cylinder. Structure. A centriole is composed of short lengths of microtubules arranged in the form of an open-ended cylinder about 500nm long and 200nm in diameter. The microtubules forming the wall of the cylinder are grouped into nine sets of bundles of three microtubules each.
A centriole is a small set of microtubules arranged in a specific way. There are nine groups of microtubules. When two centrioles are found next to each other, they are usually at right angles. The centrioles are found in pairs and move towards the poles (opposite ends) of the nucleus when it is time for cell division. During division, you may also see groups of threads attached to the centrioles.
Functions of centrioles: Centrioles play an important role in cell division. They are a pair of structures that are composed of microtubules. They generate the cell's cytoskeleton and help form the mitotic spindles. well im taking the test but mine is a pretest so im just clicking random things. 
Centrioles are built from a cylindrical array of 9 microtubules, each of which has attached to it 2 partial microtubules. The photo (courtesy of E. deHarven) is an electron micrograph showing a cross section of a centriole with its array of nine triplets of microtubules. 
Within the centrosome, the centrioles are positioned so that they are at right angles to each other, as illustrated in Figure 1. Each centriole is made of nine bundles of microtubules (three per bundle) arranged in a ring. Centrioles play a notable role in cell division. During interphase of an animal cell, the centrioles and other components of the centrosome are duplicated, though scientists are not yet sure how this duplication takes place. 