Actors Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck prepare to film a scene on the set of Gigli December 18, 2001 in West Hollywood, CA. (Photo by Mel/Getty Images) Mel Bouzad Getty Images. 3430 CONNECT 23 TWEET LINKEDIN 1 COMMENT EMAIL MORE. (Atlanta Business Chronicle) The Accountant, starring Ben Affleck, is set to start filming in Atlanta early next week, according to onlocationvacations.com. According to ComeTourGeorgia.com, the state's official site dedicated to film, TV and music travel, the movie is already in production
Benjamin Geza Affleck-Boldt (born August 15, 1972), better known as Ben Affleck, is an American actor, film director, screenwriter and producer. He has won two Academy Awards and three Golden Globe Awards. Affleck began his career as a child actor, starring in the PBS educational series The Voyage of the Mimi (1984, 1988). He later appeared in Dazed and Confused (1993) and various Kevin Smith films including Chasing Amy (1997) and Dogma (1999).
The movie is being shot in Detroit, where the Argo star has been spotted gambling obscene amounts of money at the MotorCity Casino and the Caesars Windsor Casino. It took me a minute to realize it was Ben Affleck, said an eyewitness at the MotorCity. He looked disheveled and upset while sitting there gambling. He seemed really frazzled like he had just lost a ton of money. He was smoking a cigarette and his head was down in his arms
Born in California in 1972, Ben Affleck is an actor and screenwriter whose big break came with a role in the Academy Award-winning Good Will Hunting. In 1998, he starred in the successful blockbuster Armageddon, and landed a part in the Academy Award-winning film Shakespeare in Love. After the split, Affleck and his siblings moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ben Affleck's first acting experience came at the age of seven, when he appeared in The Dark End of the Street (1979), an independent film produced by a friend of the family.
Ben Affleck, who has reportedly been sober since 2001, was so dedicated to his role in Gone Girl that he got wasted every night of shooting. Like, in the book, for example, it said that he was puffy and hungover, the 42-year-old Oscar winner told Details. It took me a minute to realize it was Ben Affleck, said an eyewitness at the MotorCity. He looked disheveled and upset while sitting there gambling. He seemed really frazzled like he had just lost a ton of money.
YBOR CITY, Fla. - Ybor City is known for its heritage but apparently it’s not good enough for a new movie Ben Affleck is filming about the Latin District.
Benjamin Geza Géza-Affleck boldt was born On august, 15 1972 In, Berkeley, CALIFORNIA, usa and was raised In, Cambridge, MASSACHUSETTS. usa His mother, Chris Anne (nee Née), boldt is a school, teacher and his, Father Timothy Byers, affleck is a social; worker the two are now. Divorced ben has a younger, brother Actor Casey, affleck who was born in. 1975... He see full ». bio
Official Photos ». Benjamin Geza Géza-Affleck boldt was born On august, 15 1972 In, Berkeley, CALIFORNIA, usa and was raised In, Cambridge, MASSACHUSETTS. Usa his, Mother Chris (anne Nee), née boldt is a, school teacher and, His Father Timothy, byers affleck is a; social worker the two are. now divorced His mother, Chris Anne (nee Née), boldt is a school, teacher and his, Father Timothy Byers, affleck is a social; worker the two are now. Divorced ben has a younger, brother Actor Casey, affleck who was born in. 1975... He see full ». bio