Causes and Types of Wounds. Depending on the healing time of a wound, it can be classified as acute or chronic. Those classified as acute wounds heal uneventfully (with no complications) in the predicted amount of time. Those classified as chronic wounds take a longer time to heal and might have some complications. Most of us are likely to sustain different types of wounds throughout life as we participate in daily activities. Many minor wounds result in damaged skin cells that lose their function and need time and simple treatment to heal.
Lacerations are caused when an object strikes the skin and causes a wound to open. Depending on a variety of characteristics (angle, force, depth, object), some lacerations can be more serious than others, reaching as far as deep tissue and leading to serious bleeding. Cut laceration: The most common type of laceration, a cut occurs when any type of blade (knife, ax, scissors, etc.) comes into contact with the skin, causing a break of the skin and possibly the underlying tissue.
Types of Trauma Wounds. Trauma wounds are classified as: Abrasions: Injuries caused by something that rubs or scrapes against the skin. Scraping your knee after falling off a bike is an example of an abrasion. Lacerations: Wounds that are produced by the tearing of body tissue. This type of wound can be a tear that is jagged, torn or irregular. A bone fracture that breaks the skin can be classified as a laceration. A laceration is often contaminated with bacteria or debris from whatever caused the cut or tear
1 The skin is a barrier to the outside world protecting the body from infection, radiation, and extremes of temperature. 2  There are many types of wounds that can damage the skin including abrasions, lacerations, rupture injuries, punctures, and penetrating wounds. Wound Care Facts. 1  The skin is a barrier to the outside world protecting the body from infection, radiation, and extremes of temperature. 2  There are many types of wounds that can damage the skin including abrasions, lacerations, rupture injuries, punctures, and penetrating wounds.
1 There are many types of wounds that can damage the skin including abrasions, lacerations, rupture injuries, punctures, and penetrating wounds. 2  Many wounds are superficial requiring local first aid including cleansing and dressing. Wound Care Facts. 1  The skin is a barrier to the outside world protecting the body from infection, radiation, and extremes of temperature. 2  There are many types of wounds that can damage the skin including abrasions, lacerations, rupture injuries, punctures, and penetrating wounds.
Lacerations. A laceration is an injury that results in an irregular break in the skin, more commonly referred to as a cut, but defined as a torn and ragged wound. There are five general types of lacerations: Split laceration: This type of wound is caused when part of the body is crushed between two objects. Cut laceration: The most common type of laceration, a cut occurs when any type of blade (knife, ax, scissors, etc.) comes into contact with the skin, causing a break of the skin and possibly the underlying tissue.
Open wounds can be classified according to the object that caused the wound. The types of open wound are: 1  Incisions or incised wounds, caused by a clean, sharp-edged object such as a knife, razor, or glass splinter. 2  Lacerations, irregular tear-like wounds caused by some blunt trauma. 3  Lacerations and incisions may appear linear (regular) or stellate (irregular). 1 contaminated wound, where the wound is as a result of accidental injury where there are pathogenic organisms and foreign bodies in the wound. 2  infected wound, where the wound has pathogenic organisms present and multiplying showing clinical signs of infection, where it looks yellow, oozing pus, having pain and redness.