Arugula, also known as rocket and rucola, is a less recognized cruciferous vegetable that provides many of the same benefits as the notoriously nutritious better-known vegetables in the cruciferous family such as broccoli, kale and Brussels sprouts. Arugula leaves are tender and bite-sized with a bit of a tangy flavor. Arugula is a less recognized cruciferous vegetable that provides many of the same benefits as broccoli, kale and Brussels sprouts. Arugula also contains 1 gram of protein, 0.3 grams of fat, and 1.5 grams of carbohydrate (including 0.6 grams of fiber and 0.8 grams of sugar).
Botanical name: Eruca sativa. If you ever see a salad green referred to as “rocket,” it’s simply another name for arugula, or roquette in French. Yet another brassicaceae along with kale and cauliflower, its delightfully pungent leaves have been cultivated in the Mediterranean since time was recorded.
Arugula is a common addition to tossed salads. Arugula is popular in the Mediterranean region, where it's often used as a pizza topping. Peppery arugula is a good addition to a main dish salad that contains other fresh greens and grilled chicken. As it's now August and the arugula is more bitter now than earlier in the season, I wonder if that has something to do with the reaction and potency of the plant chemistry. I was going to tear out the arugula and compost it, but think I'll just open the fence and leave it for the rabbits. Thanks for the postings.
Spice up your salads with arugula. Arugula, also called rocket, is a Mediterranean salad green with a peppery taste that belongs to the mustard family. This salad green is low in energy density and provides you with essential nutrients, making it a healthy addition to your diet
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Arugula (Eruca vesicaria sativa) is a leafy green herb of the mustard family. Known also as rocket, Italian cress, roquette, and rucola, it has elongated dark green leaves that are lobed like the leaves of an oak. In the ground, the plant resembles a loose lettuce with long, slender leaves. As it's now August and the arugula is more bitter now than earlier in the season, I wonder if that has something to do with the reaction and potency of the plant chemistry. I was going to tear out the arugula and compost it, but think I'll just open the fence and leave it for the rabbits. Thanks for the postings.
Eruca sativa (syn. E. vesicaria subsp. sativa (Miller) Thell., Brassica eruca L.) is an edible annual plant, commonly known as salad rocket, rucola, rucoli, rugula, colewort, roquette and, in the United States, arugula. 
arugula, Health Benefits. Also known as Salad Rocket, which is a fitting name for this zippy leafy green, Arugula is a delicious early summer vegetable from the brassicaceae family. Like others in this vegetable family (such as kale, cabbage, cauliflower and mustard greens), Arugula has no shortage of healing qualities. Arugula’s aphrodisiac qualities may stem from its stimulating effects on the body, providing power and energy that vitalizes the system. No matter what your reasoning for eating it, Arugula is a fantastic food to add to the diet this time of year while it’s young, tender and locally in season.
Arugula nutrition facts. Arugula, also known as salad or garden rocket, is one of the nutritious green-leafy vegetable of Mediterranean origin. It is a small, low growing annual herb featuring dandelion like succulent, elongated, lobular leaves with green-veins.
Summary. Arugula is a leafy green vegetable that’s loaded with nutritional benefits for nearly every area of the body, from the brain to the liver, as well as the skin and blood vessels. A zesty addition to any salad, it’s also great in other recipes, such as pizza, pesto, and soup. Other sources: If you ever see a salad green referred to as “rocket,” it’s simply another name for arugula, or roquette in French. Yet another brassicaceae along with kale and cauliflower, its delightfully pungent leaves have been cultivated in the Mediterranean since time was recorded.