Sporicidin Disinfectant Solution is sold in a 1 Gallon Container or as a Case of 4 Gallons. Sporicidin® Disinfectant Solution is an FDA, EPA and OSHA compliant disinfectant recommended for use in hospitals, medical, dental, and veterinary clinics. 
Model # GOM30101. Mold Armor Disinfectant and Fungicide is a one-step formula that kills 99.9% of household bacteria and viruses, destroys odors and inhibits the growth of mold and mildew when used as directed. 
Sporicidin Disinfectant Solution is registered for mold and mildew remediation/restoration for use in institutional, commercial and home environments. Sporicidin Disinfectant Solution has been used in hospital, medical and dental environments since 1978 and provides 100% kill of disease and odor-causing organisms. Sporicidin Disinfectant Solution is FDA, EPA and OSHA compliant. 1 Sporicidin Disinfectant Solution is approved for cleaning air ducts and decontaminating carpets. 2  Sporicidin Disinfectant Solution can be used to clean and disinfect biohazards at trauma and crime scenes where blood and bodily fluids are found.
12. It depends... if the surface is not visibly contaminated or if only a few square feet need cleaning, then the disinfectant solution can also be used as the cleaner. 
Sporicidin is a full spectrum disinfectant-bactericidal, virucidal, tuberculocidal, fungicidal-with proven 100% kill. Sporicidin Sterilizing Solution and Disinfectants (towelettes, aerosol spray, pump spray and solution) have 510(k) clearances from FDA. 
Ventilation. : Sporicidin Sterilizing and Disinfecting Solution should be used in a well ventilated area in closed containers with tight fitting lids. Rooms where Sporicidin Sterilizing and Disinfecting Solution is used should be large enough to ensure adequate dilution of vapor. 
Sporicidin Products. Sporicidin Brand mold remediation products have been used in hospitals, medical, and dental offices for infection control for over 30 years. In addition, the product line is used extensively for cleaning and restoration applications for mold remediation and sewage, biohazard, and flood clean up. 
Sporicidin Disinfectant meets CDC recommendations for using EPA-registered hospital disinfectants with label claims for non-enveloped virus to combat the potential spread of Ebola virus disease (EVD) which used to be called Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever. 
Definition of SPORICIDAL. : tending to kill spores. 