Definition: Antennae are movable sensory organs located on the head of most arthropods. All insects have a pair of antennae, but spiders have none. Antennae are segmented, and usually located above or between the eyes. Antennae serve different sensory functions for different insects.
The antennae on a grasshopper is shorter than the rest of its body. Long hind legs are give grasshoppers their great leaping ability. Grasshoppers have wings but their front wings are not used for flight. Females are identified by their size (they are larger than the males) and by the presence of short ovipositors. 
The eggs are the subject of attack by parasitoids and predators. Grasshoppers have had a long relationship with humans. Swarms of locusts have had dramatic effects that have changed the course of history, and even in smaller numbers grasshoppers can be serious pests. They are eaten as food and also feature in art, symbolism and literature
Grasshoppers are insects of the order Orthoptera, suborder Caelifera. They are sometimes referred to as short-horned grasshoppers to distinguish them from the katydids (bush crickets) which have much longer antennae. They are typically ground-dwelling insects with powerful hind legs which enable them to escape from threats by leaping vigorously. Grasshoppers have had a long relationship with humans. Swarms of locusts have had dramatic effects that have changed the course of history, and even in smaller numbers grasshoppers can be serious pests.
Antennae (singular: antenna) in biology have historically been paired appendages used for sensing in arthropods. More recently, the term has also been applied to cilium structures present in most cell types of eukaryotes. In arthropods, antennae are connected to the front-most segments. In crustaceans, they are biramous and present on the first two segments of the head, with the smaller pair known as antennules. All other arthropod groups – except chelicerates and proturans, which have none – have a single, uniramous pair of antennae. In the groups with more uniform antennae (for example: millipedes), all segments are called antennomeres. Some groups have a simple or variously modified apical or subapical bristle called an arista (this may be especially well-developed in various Diptera).
Like all insects, grasshoppers have 6 legs, 2 antennae, and 3 body parts. Grasshoppers are distinctive because of their large back legs. In fact, jumping legs like these are only found on crickets, grasshoppers, and their relatives. 
Insects use antennae to find food and detect enemies. Lice, fleas, and other insects that feed on other animals use their antennae to sense the body heat or moisture of their victims. Some male insects have especially sensitive antennae, which can pick up scents called pheromones given off by females (their mates). 
In some insects these sections are fused together so they may be hard to tell apart, and some baby insects (called immature) do not have all three sections until they become adults. Nearly all insects have a pair of antennae on their heads. They use their antennae to touch and smell the world around them. Adult insects (and most immatures) have six legs that are attached to the middle section of the body, the thorax. Insecta. The Insects are the most diverse and important group of animals on land. There are more species of insects than all other land animals put together. Insects live in all habitats and occupy any microhabitat you can imagine. They can be predators, prey, parasites, hosts, herbivores, or decomposers.
The antennae of the grasshopper are known to be remarkably long and can often be longer than the grasshopper's body, although the grasshopper's antennae and the grasshopper's body are normally about the same size. Grasshoppers use their long antennae in order to make sense of their surroundings. There are 11,000 thousand known species of grasshopper on Earth, that live in grassy areas such as fields and meadows and forest and woodland. Like all insects, all species of grasshopper have a three-part body that is made up of the grasshopper's head, it's thorax and the abdomen. Grasshoppers also have six legs, two pairs of wings, and two antennae