Cereberum,Cerebellum and Medulla Oblongata.   The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain,  associated with higher brain function such as thought and ac … tion.   Cerebellum is associated with regulation and coordination of  movement, posture, and balance. The 3 main parts of your brain are your neo-cortex, Limbic and the reptilian brain. The neo-cortex is your big learning engine, your limbic brain controls your emotions … and the reptilian brain controls what you do and so on. 12 people found this useful.
Hi, The three main parts of the brain are the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the brain stem. The cerebrum is the largest part and is the cite of thinking, memory, and interpre … ting senses. The cerebellum is at the back and controls coordination and balance. The 3 main parts of your brain are your neo-cortex, Limbic and the reptilian brain. The neo-cortex is your big learning engine, your limbic brain controls your emotions … and the reptilian brain controls what you do and so on. 12 people found this useful.
Brain Tour. 1. Three pounds, three parts. Your brain is your most powerful organ, yet weighs only about three pounds. It has a texture similar to firm jelly. It has three main parts: 1  The cerebrum fills up most of your skull. 2  It is involved in remembering, problem solving, thinking, and feeling. 3  It also controls movement. 4  The cerebellum sits at the back of your head, under the cerebrum. 5  It controls coordination and balance. 
The brain is made of three main parts: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe.
Human Brain. Paul Carus. The anatomy of the brain is complex due its intricate structure and function. This amazing organ acts as a control center by receiving, interpreting, and directing sensory information throughout the body. The brain and spinal cord are the two main structures of the central nervous system. There are three major divisions of the brain.
There are three major divisions of the brain. [ They are the forebrain, the midbrain, and the hindbrain.The forebrain is responsible for a variety of functions including receiving and processing sensory information, thinking, perceiving, producing and understanding language, and controlling motor function. The telencephalon contains the largest part of the brain, the cerebrum. Most of the actual information processing in the brain takes place in the cerebral cortex. The midbrain and the hindbrain together make up the brainstem. The midbrain is the portion of the brainstem that connects the hindbrain and the forebrain.
The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe.
Answers. Best Answer: 1).The cerebrum fills up most of your skull. It is involved in remembering, problem solving, thinking, and feeling. It also controls movement. 2)The cerebellum sits at the back of your head, under the cerebrum. It controls coordination and balance. 3)The brain stem sits beneath your cerebrum in front of your cerebellum.