A nucleotide is a monomer of a nucleic acid consisting of 3 parts. These 3 parts include a pentose sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous bases include purines (adenine and guanine) and pyrimidines (cytosine and thymine). Sugar, phosphate group, and a nitrogen base(base pair). Each nucleotide is composed of a sugar + a phosphate + a nitrogen base. The nitrogenous bases are Adenine which pairs with Thymine and Cytosine which pairs with Guanine.
A nucleoside consists of a nitrogenous base covalently attached to a sugar (ribose or deoxyribose) but without the phosphate group. A nucleotide consists of a nitrogenous base, a sugar (ribose or deoxyribose) and one to three phosphate groups. Nucleoside = Sugar + Base. Nucleotide = Sugar + Base + Phosphate. A nucleoside consists of a nitrogenous base covalently attached to a sugar (ribose or deoxyribose) but without the phosphate group. When phosphate group of nucleotide is removed by hydrolysis, the structure remaining is nucleoside.
Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomers, or subunits, of nucleic acids like DNA and RNA. The building blocks of nucleic acids, nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups
You may be asked to name the three parts of a nucleotide and explain how they are connected or bonded to each other. Here's the answer for both DNA and RNA. Answer: Both deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleotides which consist of three parts: 1  Nitrogenous Base. 2  Purines and pyrimidines are the two categories of nitrogenous bases. 3  Pentose Sugar. 4  In DNA, the sugar is 2'-deoxyribose. 5  Phosphate Group. 6  A single phosphate group is PO 4 3- . 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Nucleotide Definition: A nucleotide is an organic molecule made up of a nucleotide base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose) and at least one phosphate group. Nucleotides make up the basic units of DNA and RNA molecules. 
A nucleoside consists simply of a nucleobase (also termed a nitrogenous base) and a 5-carbon sugar (either ribose or deoxyribose), whereas a nucleotide is composed of a nucleobase, a five-carbon sugar, and one or more phosphate groups. 
Nucleotides are molecules consists of three parts-a nitrogen base, a five-carbon sugar and a phosphate group. DNA and RNA are made of the subunits called nucleotides. 3 people found this useful. Each nucleotide is composed of a sugar + a phosphate + a nitrogen base. The nitrogenous bases are Adenine which pairs with Thymine and Cytosine which pairs with Guanine.
This nucleotide contains the five-carbon sugar deoxyribose, a nitrogenous base called adenine, and one phosphate group. Together, the deoxyribose and adenine make up a nucleoside (specifically, a deoxyribonucleoside) called deoxyadenosine. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups
A nucleotide is made of a nucleobase (also termed a nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2-deoxyribose) depending on if it is DNA or RNA, and one or, depending on the definition, more than one phosphate groups. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl