Allrecipes says: * Most bread is baked in a moderate oven, 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Bake for 40 to 50 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and the bottom of a loaf sounds hollow when tapped. Your bread machine recipe might be different from a regular bread recipe. When baking, I usually preheat my oven to 250C with a deep pan at the bottom rack with a few cups of water. This is important to keep the dough moist but give a good crust. When it comes time to bake, I pop mu loaf in and drop the temp to 200C.
For a standard size loaf (in an aluminum loaf pan) I would start with 30 minutes at 375 degrees. You can test for doneness by turning the loaf out of the pan and thumpin … g the bottom--it should sound hollow. If it seems too soft bake for another 10 minutes and test again. Baking time can be as little as 8 minutes or as long as 1 hour, depending on the recipe and the size of loaf desired. Edit. Share to: 1  A Recipe for Chocolate Chip Pumpkin Bread There are many delicious baked goods out there, and ground nutmeg is a key ingredient in many of their recipes.
Bake the bread. You can bake the bread on a baking sheet, pizza pan, or directly on a bread stone. If using a bread stone, place the stone on the middle rack and preheat it for 30 minutes. Use parchment paper to transfer the dough to the bread stone (leave it on the parchment). But for standard loaves, you'll want to use a loaf pan. A loaf pan helps to shape the bread and encourage even browning, a crispy crust, and a tender interior. Common loaf-pan sizes are 9x5x3 inches and 8x4x2 inches. Nonstick pans make it easier to remove bread and require less fat for greasing.
Best Answer: I always bake bread and rolls in a 375 F preheated oven. Check your bread after about 30 minutes. It may need 5 or 10 more minutes, but better to check it early. Make sure you let it rise until doubled before baking. Let rest in baking pan for 5 minutes on cooling rack and then take it out of the pan to finish cooling on the rack. 
Remove from pan and cool another 10 minutes: Lift the loaf out of the pan using the parchment paper wings.. Set it on the cooling rack to cool for another 10 minutes before slicing. Leftover bread can be kept, covered, at room temperature for several days or wrapped in foil and frozen for up to 3 months. → If using nuts, toast them in the oven for 10 minutes as the oven is pre-heating. Melt the butter: Melt the butter in the microwave or over low heat on the stovetop. → Alternatively, for a more cake-like banana bread, soften the butter (but do not melt) and cream it with the sugar in a stand mixer in the next step.
Baking time is 25 minutes to an hour and a half, depending on oven temperature, dough density and the volume and shape of the loaf. Hotter ovens, smaller loaves, and skinny loaves (vs. big fat ones) decrease baking time. You can see this if you think it through. Baking time can be as little as 8 minutes or as long as 1 hour, depending on the recipe and the size of loaf desired. Edit. Share to: 1  A Recipe for Chocolate Chip Pumpkin Bread There are many delicious baked goods out there, and ground nutmeg is a key ingredient in many of their recipes.
Transfer to oven and bake until bread is golden and bottom sounds hollow when tapped, about 35-45 minutes. (If you use a cast iron pan, it may take a little longer as it takes longer for the pan to heat up than a baking sheet.) Check for doneness also by inserting a long, thin skewer into the center. 
If the bread is not done, remove the foil from the loaf pan, cover the crock with a paper towel, and place the cover back onto the slow cooker. Cook the bread for another 30 minutes; then check it again for doneness. When the bread is done, allow it to cool for 10 minutes; then remove it from the loaf pan and place it on a wire rack for further cooling (if necessary). The bread can be sliced and served warm or it can be cooled completely before serving. 
Or bake one pan at a time, placing the second sheet in the refrigerator until 15 minutes before baking time. If you bake two smaller pans at once, not enough air will circulate around the bread, causing uneven baking. Step 4: Check for doneness Tap yeast bread lightly with your fingers to test for doneness. But for standard loaves, you'll want to use a loaf pan. A loaf pan helps to shape the bread and encourage even browning, a crispy crust, and a tender interior. Common loaf-pan sizes are 9x5x3 inches and 8x4x2 inches. Nonstick pans make it easier to remove bread and require less fat for greasing.