Either using too much salt or brining for too long will leave you with a cut of meat that is too salty to eat. Don't worry about the 1 cup of salt that's only 1 tablespoon per cup of water. The solution should be salty to the taste but not thick with salt. This formula assumes that you are using regular table salt. 
How long to brine depends on the size and type of meat you've got. Larger meats like a whole turkey require much more time for the brine to do its thing. Small pieces of seafood like shrimp shouldn't sit in a brine for more than half an hour. Brining is a great way to keep lean meat like turkey moist. Here's how to do it: Remove the neck, giblets, and tail (save these for stock) and any plastic bits like leg connectors or pop-up timers from the turkey. Rinse the turkey well and put it in two doubled-up turkey-size oven bags.
What type of salt to use in brine: Kosher salt and table salt (without iodine) are the most common salts used in brining. Sea salt can be used, but it tends to be quite expensive. I usually use coarse kosher salt. A cup of table salt and a cup of kosher salt are NOT equal. Brining Directions-How To Make Poultry Brine: One of the great things about brining is that there are so few rules. Most brines start with water and salt — traditionally, 3/4 pound of salt per gallon of water, but since we’re not concerned with the brine as a preservative, you can cut back on the salt.
In addition to salt and water, you can also flavor the brine with sugar, brown sugar, maple syrup, fruit juice, beer, peppercorns, herbs, and/or garlic. For an 8- to 12-pound turkey, you will need a 10-quart pot that is tall and deep. If a large pot won't fit in your refrigerator, substitute a turkey-brining bag. In the pot, combine 5 quarts hot water and 1-1/2 cups kosher salt or 3/4 cup table salt. Step 3: Start Brining. Add the turkey to the cold brine in the pot. Press and weigh down the turkey with a clean plate or two. This allows all of the bird to be submerged in the turkey brine. Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for 8 to 12 hours.
The amount of time needed to brine meat depends on the cut of meat and its thickness. Thin cuts like pork chops and chicken pieces may need only 30-60 minutes of brine time, while a whole turkey can brine for 6-12 hours, with some recipes going as long as 24-48 hours. See How Long To Brine for details. Meats That Benefit From Brining. Lean cuts of meat with mild flavor tend to benefit most from brining
Best Answer: You can brine a turkey more than 24 hours, it won't get too salty because of osmosis and the movement of water from cell to cell won't allow for all of the salt to absorbed into the muscles. You want to brine for at least 8 hours though, to be sure that as much moisture can be imparted as possible. Report Abuse. Keep it in the brine for at least 8 hours. You could go up to about 16, but much longer than that and you'll risk the meat coming out too salty-tasting. As for the temperature, keep it below 40. Between 40 and 140 is the bacterial danger zone- the temperatures where potentially harmful bacteria multiply fastest
Brine meats for about 1 hour per pound in the refrigerator. It is important that the whole thing be kept cold. The specific amount of time will vary. Lighter meats like poultry or seafood do not need to be brined as long as denser meats like pork tenderloins. Continued from page 1. The typical brine consists of 1 cup of salt for each gallon of water (or other liquids). Start by determining the amount of liquid you are going to need. To do this take the meat you plan to brine and place it in the container you are going to use.
If a recipe calls for brining 4 chicken breasts in 2 quarts of water with 1/4 cup of salt, there's no problem increasing to 6 or 8 chicken breasts as long as all the meat is submerged in the brine solution. It's the ratio of salt to water that matters, not the amount of meat being brined. Thin cuts like pork chops and chicken pieces may need only 30-60 minutes of brine time, while a whole turkey can brine for 6-12 hours, with some recipes going as long as 24-48 hours. See How Long To Brine for details.