Meaning: The Irish name Kelia means-a form of Kelly. Rating: 
Personal experiences with the name Kelia: | Edit. My name is Kelia and it was butchered and teased (Kill-ya) all the time to the point where I hated it growing up. However, I now love my name and am very glad I have it. 
Such magnetism! Undeniably, Kelia is an unusual character: both sensitive and highly emotional, she is nevertheless a woman of the world who was born to firmly take hold of the reins of her destiny. A particularly active individual, Kelia is strong-willed, resourceful, daring and assertive. It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic...
Kelia is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ke-li-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 7819 in baby name popularity for girls with 15 occurrences. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.
[ syll. ke-lia, kel-ia ] The baby girl name Kelia is of Celtic origin and it is predominantly used in the English language. Kelia is a variant form of the English and Irish Kelly. Kelia is a rare baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. 
The name Kelia is very likely a(n) Hebrew variant of the name Kaylah. See other suggested Hebrew girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Kaylah. See worldwide popularity rankings of Kelia as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby girl name, Kelia is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Kelia for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Kaylah, of which the name Kelia is a variant. USA baby name statistics
Compare To: See the name popularity of Kelia since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. View Kelia popularity trends, and how the popularity of Kelia has changed over time. All of our U.S. data comes from the Social Security Administration, which provides year popularity data for all names that have more than 5 occurences by gender. Mouse over the chart entries or scroll down to the table for data detail
Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Kelia Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kelia has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kelia to other names. Kelia is a variant spelling of Kelly. Kelia has the diminutive (nickname) Kell. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.