The reflex of producing goose bumps is known as arasing, piloerection, or the pilomotor reflex. It occurs in many mammals besides humans; a prominent example is porcupines, which raise their quills when threatened, or sea otters when they encounter sharks or other predators. In humans, goose bumps are strongest on the forearms, but also occur on the legs, neck, and other areas of the skin that have hair. In some people, they even occur in the face or on the head.
(Therefore we could as well call them turkeybumps or duckbumps.) These bumps are caused by a contraction of miniature muscles that are attached to each hair. Each contracting muscle creates a shallow depression on the skin surface, which causes the surrounding area to protrude. The thicker the hair layer, the more heat is retained. In people this reaction is useless because we do not have a hair coat, but goosebumps persist nevertheless. In addition to cold, the hair will also stand up in many animals when they feel threatened--in a cat being attacked by a dog, for example.
Scientists have now unraveled the theory behind why people get goosebumps while listening to music. Canadian researchers has suggested that when we are moved by music our brains behave as if reacting to delicious food, psychoactive drugs or money, reports the Scotsman. 
The formation of goose bumps in humans under stress is considered by some to be a vestigial reflex; some believe its function in human ancestors was to raise the body's hair, making the ancestor appear larger and scaring off predators. In humans, goose bumps are strongest on the forearms, but also occur on the legs, neck, and other areas of the skin that have hair. In some people, they even occur in the face or on the head.
Goosebumps occur on our skin in a reaction to cold, fear, shock and sometime due to sense of nostalgia or something awe-inspiring. The bumps are created when muscles at the base of the hair contract and cause the hair to stand straight up. It is a sympathetic nervous symptom reaction which is linked to the flight-or-flight response. In animals goosebumps appear when the flight-or-fight response is activated; the hair rises and the animal can appear bigger to predators. While we know what goosebumps are, we don't know why they have such a strange name. When feathers are pulled from a goose it leaves a bumpy flesh behind, but so do most birds
Most people at one time or another will get goose bumps. It’s a strange thing that happens to people's skin. The muscles at the bases of the hairs on your skin get very tense and they contract, much like your bicep muscle does when you flex your arm. These little muscles make tiny bumps all over our skin and these are called goose bumps. There are quite a few things like goose bumps that our body does without us thinking about them. These are called reflexes. If a doctor taps your leg right below your knee and you kick your leg, that’s a type of reflex. Also, sneezing because something tickles your nose i
Expand for References: Today I found out why you get goose bumps when it’s cold or as result of a strong emotion. It turns out, goose bumps are an involuntary reflex of mammals called piloerection, usually triggered by a hormone released on certain situations that causes their body hair to stand. 1 Bristling, a phenomenon in fur-covered animals similar to goose bumps, also keeps them warmer by increasing the amount of air between hairs which traps body heat. 2  In humans, goose bumps are the strongest on the forearms, but also occur on the legs, neck, and other areas of the skin that have hair.
Goose bumps — sometimes called goose flesh or goose pimples — are the little bumps on your skin at the base of hairs that spring up involuntarily whenever you get cold or experience strong emotions, like fear, pleasure or surprise. They also have a scientific name: kutis ansterina. This particular reflex is known as the pilomotor reflex. Humans aren’t the only mammals that have this reaction. For example, when porcupines are threatened, their quills raise in a reflex action. Similarly, you may have seen a cat’s or a dog’s hairs stand on end when they sense danger or feel afraid.
Goose bumps, goose pimples or goose flesh, the medical term cutis anserina or horripilation, are the bumps on a person's skin at the base of body hairs which may involuntarily develop when a person is cold or experiences strong emotions such as fear, nostalgia, pleasure, euphoria, awe, admiration, and sexual arousal. In humans, goose bumps are strongest on the forearms, but also occur on the legs, neck, and other areas of the skin that have hair. In some people, they even occur in the face or on the head.