The Munich Oktoberfest. The Munich Oktoberfest is held at the Theresienwiese. More than 6 million people visit the largest people’s, and beer festival in the world. This year’s Oktoberfest, will be held from September 22nd until October 7th. Many people purchase souvenirs to remind them of the wonderful time had in Munich. See what the English newspaper, The Telegraph thinks of the Oktoberfest.
Festival Dates. Traditionally, the Munich Oktoberfest was held on the 16 days leading up to and including the first Sunday in October. Starting in 1994, the dates were modified for when the first Sunday in October falls on October 1 or 2. The festival will then conclude on October 3, German Unity Day
Oktoberfest is the worlds largest folk festival held yearly in Munich, Germany. It began in 1810 when Bavaria's Crown Prince Ludwig married Theresa of Saxony (Sachsen-Hildburghausen). The townsfolk held a party in a large field outside the city to celebrate and it was so popular, they held it again a year later. 
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese (field, or meadow, of Therese), often called the Wiesn for short, located near Munich's centre. Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are consumed, with 7.7 million litres served during the 16 day festival in 2013. Kronprinz (Crown Prince) Ludwig, later to become King Ludwig I, was married to Princess Therese of Saxe-Hildburghausen on October 12, 1810. The citizens of Munich were invited to attend the festivities held on the fields in front of the city gates to celebrate the happy Royal event.
The Origin of the Oktoberfest. Oktoberfest began on October 12, 1810 with the marriage of Crown Prince Ludwig, who later became King Ludwig I. His marriage to Princess Therese von Sachsen-Hildburghausen was celebrated in Bavaria. On October 17, five days after the marriage, a large fest was held in front of the Sendlinger Tor, one of the gates leading to Munich. Included in the festivities were horse races that became an Oktoberfest custom lasting until 1938.
The Oktoberfest is an important part of Bavarian culture, having been held since 1810. Other cities across the world also hold Oktoberfest celebrations, modeled after the original Munich event. The Munich Oktoberfest originally took place during the 16 days up to, and including, the first Sunday in October. In 1994, the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd, then the festival would go on until October 3 (German Unity Day). Kronprinz (Crown Prince) Ludwig, later to become King Ludwig I, was married to Princess Therese of Saxe-Hildburghausen on October 12, 1810. The citizens of Munich were invited to attend the festivities held on the fields in front of the city gates to celebrate the happy Royal event.
Oktoberfest is a two-week festival held each year in Munich, Bavaria, Germany during late September and early October. It is one of the most famous events in the city and the world s largest fair, with some six million people attending every year. Oktoberfest is the largest public festival in the world with over 6.5 million visitors over 16 days. It is held at the Theresienwiese, a large 90 acre park in Munich. It serves over 400,000 people per day which mean for every 4.5 people attending the event there is one seat, so reservations are highly recommended.
The Munich Oktoberfest runs for two weeks every year in late September to early October. A large number of beer tents, a giant fun fair, side shows, souvenir stands, grilled fish and chicken grills and nearly 7 million visitors make the Munich Oktoberfest the largest festival in the world. More than 6 million people visit the largest people’s, and beer festival in the world. This year’s Oktoberfest, will be held from September 22nd until October 7th. Many people purchase souvenirs to remind them of the wonderful time had in Munich. See what the English newspaper, The Telegraph thinks of the Oktoberfest.
The History of the Oktoberfest. Crown Prince Ludwig, later to become King Ludwig I, was married to Princess Therese of Saxony-Hildburghausen on 12th October 1810. The citizens of Munich were invited to attend the festivities held on the fields in front of the city gates to celebrate the happy royal event. 
Oktoberfest is a six-day Bavarian beer festival held each year between September and October in the German city of Munich. Oktoberfest brings in an estimated $1.2 billion, and employs about 12,000 workers, according to Munich’s tourist office. Traditionally, the Munich Oktoberfest was held on the 16 days leading up to and including the first Sunday in October. Starting in 1994, the dates were modified for when the first Sunday in October falls on October 1 or 2.