Place the steaks directly over the broiler in the oven and cook the steaks for 3 to 4 minutes for each side. Remove the steaks and place a piece of tented foil over them for 6 minutes before serving. 7 Frying sirloin steaks is a popular cooking method. Turn the heat on high and sear both sides of the steak. 
1 Broil 4 in. from the heat for 7 minutes. 2  Turn steaks; top with mushrooms. 3  Broil 7-8 minutes longer or until meat reaches desired doneness (for medium-rare, a thermometer should read 145°; medium, 160°; well-done, 170°) and mushrooms are tender. 4  Yield: 4 servings. 
Slide the pan of steaks under the broiler element on the top rack in the oven. James Goodwin. Allow the steaks to cook for 3 to 4 minutes on each side, if you want the steaks to be rare to medium rare. Add 2 to 3 minutes per side for more well-done meat. James Goodwin. Remove the steaks from the oven. Tent the pan with tin foil and let the meat rest for at least five minutes before serving
1 Broil 3 minutes, then turn steaks over and broil another 3 minutes. 2  Continue flipping the steaks every 3 minutes until center registers 125-130°F (for medium-rare), 6-16 minutes. 3  Transfer to a serving platter and top each steak with one quarter of the compound butter. 
1 For rare steaks, cook for a total of 1 1/2 minutes on each side. 2  For medium rare steaks, cook for a total of 2 minutes on each side. 3  For medium well steaks, cook for a total of 2 1/2 minutes on each side. 4  For well done steaks, cook for 3 or more minutes on each side. 1 Choose steaks that are at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick, and preferably 2 inches (5.1 cm). 2  Thinner steaks will dry out easily when you cook them. 3  Fresh sirloin steak is deep red in color, with a generous marbling of fat.
Marinate and Broil: Marinate in tenderizing marinade for 6 to 24 hours. Broil on broiler pan so surface of beef is 3-4 from heat for 1 thick steaks: 2-3 from heat for 3/4 thick steaks, 1 top round and flank steaks. Broil per chart for medium rare to medium, turning once halfway through cooking time. Broil: Broil on broiler pan rack so surface of beef is 3-4 from heat for 1 thick steaks, 2-3 from heat for 3/4 inch thick steaks and 1 tenderloin
Continue turning the steaks every thirty seconds until they are cooked. 1  For rare steaks, cook for a total of 1 1/2 minutes on each side. 2  For medium rare steaks, cook for a total of 2 minutes on each side. 3  For medium well steaks, cook for a total of 2 1/2 minutes on each side. 1 Choose steaks that are at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick, and preferably 2 inches (5.1 cm). 2  Thinner steaks will dry out easily when you cook them. 3  Fresh sirloin steak is deep red in color, with a generous marbling of fat.
4. Broil the first side of the top sirloin steak. Turn the broiler on high and move an oven rack to the second slot from the top. This should leave about 5‒6 inches between the meat and the heat. Let the broiler preheat for a few minutes before you stick the meat under it. 
Photo Credit Ron Bennett/Demand Media. Broil the steaks at 500 degrees F until they are cooked to your desired doneness. For 1-inch sirloin steaks, this additional time is approximately 4 to 5 minutes for medium well and 2 to 3 minutes for medium. If you prefer your steaks rare, they may require no additional time in the oven beyond the initial searing time. 
Place the pan on the top rack, under the broiler. Let the steak broil for four minutes and then carefully flip it to the other side for another four minutes. If you're using a grill pan with raised ridges make sure you don't wiggle the steak around in the pan. You'll mess up the grill marks. After the steaks have broiled on each side, pull the pan out of the broiler. Position the top rack four to five inches from the top of the oven. Take the steak out of the refrigerator as you pre-heat the broiler to its highest possible temperature (Our broiler reaches to 550 degrees). Open a window just in case.