16 weeks of age: Adminster the last combination vaccine. 12 to 16 weeks of age: Adminster rabies vaccine. The timing of this vaccine may depend on the laws in your area (since this can be a human disease, too). Confirm with your veterinarian and check your local and state laws.
1 Dogs must be at least 3 months of age to be vaccinated against rabies. 2  If it is the dog’s first rabies vaccine, the dog must continue to be confined until 30 days have passed since vaccination. 3  Older dogs with expired rabies vaccines can be released as soon as they receive a booster.
Rabies Vaccinations for Puppies. Vaccinations for puppies are especially important as puppies are vulnerable to a much wider range of diseases than are adult dogs. Puppy vaccination regimens usually begin at between six and four weeks of age. The first vaccinations your puppy receives will be against distemper, parvovirus, and canine hepatitis. Your puppy should receive its first rabies vaccination between 16 and 26 weeks of age. While rabies is a very dangerous disease for both dogs and humans, your puppy is unlikely to catch it from another dog, due to the fact that rabies vaccinations are required by law. He is also unlikely to be exposed to wild animals carrying the disease during these first few months of his life.
Dogs that have never been vaccinated against rabies must receive their first vaccination at least 30 days prior to arrival. Puppies must not be vaccinated against rabies before 3 months of age, so the youngest that a puppy can be imported into the United States is 4 months of age. These requirements apply to all dogs including service animals. If your dog is imported from a rabies-free country, CDC does not require rabies vaccination.
A puppy can be vaccinated for Parvovirus as early as 5 weeks. A combination vaccine (5-way) should be given at 6 and 9 weeks. At 12 and 15 weeks of age your puppy will need another combination vaccine, possibly a 7-way, as well as a rabies vaccine. Adult dogs will also require a booster shot once a year.