I started chemo within a month of surgery and it wasn't that bad. It took a good 2 weeks after surgery before I really started feeling better but once I hit that 2 week mark, I really felt much better. Was back to work after 3 and chemo started after 4 weeks. So yeah, it can be done. Many people though might go 6-weeks post surgery for starting chemo. 
Chemotherapy will start usually in the first 10 days to 2-5 weeks after surgery. Your doctor will use the information gathered during surgery on stage and grade of your tumor to select the most effective treatment for you. Of course, this will be extensively discussed with you prior to treatment beginning. 
The treatment of these tumors usually includes chemotherapy (like the chemo that is given for grade 2). Stage IC (T1c, N0, M0) : For stage IC ovarian cancer (including stage IC1, IC2, and IC3), standard surgery to remove the cancer is still the first treatment. After surgery, chemo is recommended, usually 3 to 6 cycles of treatment with carboplatin and paclitaxel. After surgery, chemo is recommended for at least 6 cycles. The combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel is most often used. Some women with stage II ovarian cancer are treated with intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy instead of intravenous (IV) chemotherapy.
Also, you should not have sex until your doctor says it's okay. It usually takes 4 to 6 weeks to get back to a normal routine. Chemotherapy, which uses medicines to kill cancer cells, is recommended after surgery for most stages of ovarian cancer. Chemotherapy is usually started 1 to 4 weeks after surgery. After a hysterectomy, call your doctor if: 1  You have bright red vaginal bleeding that soaks one or more pads in an hour, or you have large clots. 2  You have foul-smelling discharge from your vagina. 3  You are sick to your stomach or cannot keep fluids down.
Women diagnosed with triple-negative breast cancer who started chemotherapy within 30 days after surgery were 52% more likely to survive than women diagnosed with triple-negative disease who started chemotherapy 61 or more days after surgery. A new study has found that women who wait more than 60 days after surgery to start chemotherapy are more likely to have the cancer come back someplace in the body away from the breast (metastasize) and also are less likely to survive compared to women who start chemotherapy within 30 days of surgery.
The tumor is grade 1 when the cancer cells look a lot like normal ovarian cells. The outlook is good for grade 1 tumors, and most patients require no treatment after surgery. If someone with a grade 1, Stage IA ovarian cancer wants to be able to have children after treatment, the initial surgery may be changed. After surgery, chemo is recommended for at least 6 cycles. The combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel is most often used. Some women with stage II ovarian cancer are treated with intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy instead of intravenous (IV) chemotherapy.
A Dr. Gustavo Rodriguez, MD, Gynecologic Oncology, answered on behalf of NorthShore University HealthSystem. Some doctors actually start chemotherapy before the patients go home from ovarian cancer surgery, but that’s a bit much. It’s not necessary. The goal is to maintain the gains you just made with the operation and not let any cancer cells that are there gain a foothold. You might wait two or three weeks. But in most cases, within a week or two, the individual has healed well enough, and doctors like to start therapy. With belly wash chemotherapy, doctors will consider giving the first cycle of chemotherapy intravenously and then let the patient fully recover.
So doctors can actually give chemotherapy within less than a week after surgery. For the elderly, the frail, and those with poor functional status, it takes longer for doctors to get them strong enough to be ready for chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. You might wait two or three weeks. But in most cases, within a week or two, the individual has healed well enough, and doctors like to start therapy. With belly wash chemotherapy, doctors will consider giving the first cycle of chemotherapy intravenously and then let the patient fully recover.
I am three weeks post surgery today (colon resection for stage 3 rectal cancer along with a complete hysterectomy. My surgeon had indicated that it would probably be about 2 months after surgery that I would start 12 rounds of folfox, but my onc. is ready to start next Monday (4 weeks post-surgery). You sound just like me. I was also stage III rectal cancer and had a complete hysterectomy along with my resection. My oncologist wanted to start my chemo three weeks after surgery, but I wasn't ready so I started it after 4 weeks.
The chemotherapy is to help stop the cancer from coming back. There are different types of chemotherapy that you may have after surgery for bowel cancer. You normally start chemotherapy as soon as you have recovered from the operation, usually within about 8 weeks. You can view and print the quick guides for all the pages in the treating bowel cancer section. Back to top.