• OCA1, or tyrosinase-related albinism, results from a genetic defect in an enzyme called tyrosinase. This enzyme helps the body to change the amino acid, tyrosine, into pigment. (An amino acid is a “building block” of protein.) There are two subtypes of OCA1. • OCA2, or P gene albinism, results from a genetic defect in the P protein that helps the tyrosinase enzyme to function. People with OCA2 make a minimal amount of melanin pigment and can have hair color ranging from very light blond to brown.
Albinism results from inheritance of recessive gene alleles and is known to affect all vertebrates, including humans. There are two different forms of albinism: a partial lack of the melanin is known as hypomelanism, or hypomelanosis, and the total absence of melanin is known as amelanism or amelanosis.
Ocular albinism is a genetic condition that primarily affects the eyes. This condition reduces the coloring (pigmentation) of the iris, which is the colored part of the eye, and the retina, which is the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye. Pigmentation in the eye is essential for normal vision. Ocular albinism type 1 is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes.
Albinism is a recessive trait - a person without albinism can carry the albinism trait. Both parents must carry a defective gene to have a child with albinism. When neither parent has albinism but both carry the defective gene, there is a one in four chance that the baby will be born with albinism. It is characterized by a deficit in the production in melanin and by the partial or complete absence of pigment in the skin, hair and eyes. This hereditary disease can be found in humans (affecting all races), mammals, birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians.
Albinism is a syndrome in which the albinos (people who have albinism) do not have color in their skin, eyes or hair. They lack the pigment melanin which gives you color in those areas. People with albinism inherited an altered copy of a gene from their parents. The gene does not work as it should. About 1 child out of every 17,000 children are albinistic. If one parent carries the gene of albinism there is then a 1 in 4 chance that their child/ children will be albinistic.
Albinism is an inherited genetic condition that reduces the amount of melanin pigment formed in the skin, hair and/or eyes. Albinism occurs in all racial and ethnic groups throughout the world. • OCA2, or P gene albinism, results from a genetic defect in the P protein that helps the tyrosinase enzyme to function. People with OCA2 make a minimal amount of melanin pigment and can have hair color ranging from very light blond to brown.
Knowledge center. Albinism is a genetic condition also called achromia, achromasia, or achromatosis. It is characterized by a deficit in the production in melanin and by the partial or complete absence of pigment in the skin, hair and eyes. This hereditary disease can be found in humans (affecting all races), mammals, birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians.
Albinism is a rare group of genetic disorders that cause the skin, hair, or eyes to have little or no color. Albinism is also associated with vision problems. According to the National Organization for Albinism and Hypopigmentation (NOAH), approximately one in 17,000 people have a form of albinism. (NOAH). 
Key Points. 1  Albinism is a genetic condition. 2  There are two main types of albinism: OCA that affects the eyes, skin and hair and OA that affects only the eyes. 3  OCA usually has an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. 4  OA has an x-linked recessive inheritance pattern. 5  It affects only boys. There are two types of albinism: 1  When the skin, hair, and eyes are involved, it is called oculocutaneous (say: ock-you-lo-kyoo-TAY-nee-us) albinism (OCA). 2  When the eyes are involved, but skin and hair colouring are normal, it is called ocular albinism (OA).
1 Albinism is a genetic condition. 2  There are two main types of albinism: OCA that affects the eyes, skin and hair and OA that affects only the eyes. 3  OCA usually has an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. There are two types of albinism: 1  When the skin, hair, and eyes are involved, it is called oculocutaneous (say: ock-you-lo-kyoo-TAY-nee-us) albinism (OCA). 2  When the eyes are involved, but skin and hair colouring are normal, it is called ocular albinism (OA).