Swollen liver pain is caused by the expansion of the liver. As the liver expands, its membrane is stretched and the organ gets heavier. This results in abdominal pain which intensifies slowly if left untreated. 1  Obesity, diabetes and over-consumption of alcohol are all major factors for fatty liver pain. Liver pain is not something to be ignored. It could be a sign of a serious health condition. Therefore it is important to know where it is and what it does in the body. Your liver is located near your abdomen on the right side,actually beneath your ribs and above your diaphragm which separates the chest and the abdomen.
Steatosis, also known as fatty liver, causes liver pain. When there is an accumulation of a large amount of fat in the liver, it results in swelling. This condition of swollen liver is known as steatosis. Liver pain is not something to be ignored. It could be a sign of a serious health condition. Therefore it is important to know where it is and what it does in the body. Your liver is located near your abdomen on the right side,actually beneath your ribs and above your diaphragm which separates the chest and the abdomen.
Fatty liver pain is a condition suffered as a result of Fatty Liver Disease (FLD). This disease is caused by the accumulation of fat in the liver cells, which cause the liver to swell. Read on to dig deeper into the causes, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of this condition. 
Everything about Fatty Liver Pain. A fatty liver pain is mainly caused with the advancement of fatty liver disease. Advanced conditions of fatty liver could be the cause of the pain, but it’s impotent to check and verify the exact cause. A fatty liver pain is mainly caused with the advancement of fatty liver disease
When talking about fatty liver disease symptoms and especially fatty liver pain symptoms, you usually tend to think that it involves a sort of physical symptom you can actually point on, like many other disease. In reality, fatty liver symptoms are nearly non-existent. Saying that, at a later stage of fatty liver development, the livers size is usually enlarged, and might cause a obscure discomfort in the right upper stomach, but it doesn’t happen to everyone, and is not considered as one of fatty liver pain symptoms as it’s usually not painful.
Another fatty liver condition called fatty liver of pregnancy is a rare but serious condition of pregnancy. In this condition a lot of fat builds up in the liver cells and causes damage quite quickly. The cause is not known. Symptoms include being sick (vomiting), tummy (abdominal) pain and jaundice. 
JackF/iStock/Getty Images. Cause of Pain. The pain of a fatty liver is caused by the expansion of the liver. As it expands, its membrane stretches, the organ becomes heavier, and the result is abdominal pain, particularly in the upper right abdominal area. Fatty liver, often medically referred to as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), is a painful liver condition characterized by liver inflammation and formation of scar tissue, which has many possible causes, including obesity, poor nutrition and certain medications, among many others.
The fatty liver pain is usually felt at the right upper quadrant of the abdomen. This is characterized as a dull ache in the initial stages of the disease but as it progresses, patients may feel it as sharp and severe pain. For patients with this kind of pain, medical attention should be sought immediately. Fatty liver pain is the condition wherein there is an excessive accumulation of fats or triglycerides in the liver. These triglycerides are the most common fats that are present in the body. These also contain lipids which are essential for energy and cell repair