With high pressure, winds are lightest at the centre and circulate clockwise in the northern hemisphere and counter-clockwise in the southern hemisphere. There are two main types of anticyclone, a cold and warm anticyclone. Cold anticyclones form typically over polar climates, here temperatures are very low and the air is often cold and dense. An inversion tends to develop at low altitudes with anticyclones; this prevents clouds from building any further
Anticyclone. An anticyclone is a region of high atmospheric pressure relative to the surrounding air, generally thousands of kilometres in diameter and also known as a high or high-pressure system. Anticyclones appear on weather charts as a series of concentric, widely spaced isobars of 1000 mbs and above. The centre of an anticyclone has a characteristic pattern of air circulation, with subsiding air and horizontal divergence of the air near the surface. The name anticyclone comes from the circulatory flow of air within the system; anticyclonic circulation has a local circulation that is opposed to the Earth's rotation.
2.1 Anticyclones (high pressure). Anticyclones tutorial. Areas of sinking air which result in high pressure are called anticyclones (the opposite to an anticyclone is the cyclone or depression, which is covered next). High pressure systems have small pressure gradients (ie the air pressure doesn't change rapidly). This means that the winds are gentle. Anticyclones often block the path of depressions, either slowing down the bad weather, or forcing it round the outside of the high pressure system. They are then called ' Blocking Highs '. As air descends, air pressure increases. When air hits the ground, it has to go somewhere.
Anticyclones. Anticyclones are the opposite of depressions [depression: In meteorological terms, a depression is an area of low air pressure. ] - they are an area of high atmospheric pressure where the air is sinking. 1  As the air is sinking, not rising, no clouds or rain are formed. 2  The absence of fronts means winds may be very light. 3  Consequently, high-pressure areas are often associated with settled, dry and bright conditions. 4  In summer, anticyclones bring dry, hot weather. 5  In cold ... 1 This is because as the air sinks it warms, meaning it can hold more water. 2  The absence of fronts means winds may be very light. 3  Consequently, high-pressure areas are often associated with settled, dry and bright conditions. 4  In summer, anticyclones bring dry, hot weather.
An anticyclone (that is, opposite to a cyclone) is a weather phenomenon defined by the United States National Weather Service 's glossary as a large-scale circulation of winds around a central region of high atmospheric pressure, clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere, counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. True color satellite image of an unusual anticyclone off southern Australia in the Southern Hemisphere, on September 8, 2012, showing a counter-clockwise rotation around an oval area of clear skies.
2.1.1 Blocking highs. Anticyclones tutorial-blocking highs. Areas of high pressure can sometimes be very slow moving, almost stationary. Such a region of slow moving air can prevent other, faster moving pressure systems from moving into a region. For this reason they are known as blocking highs or blocking anticyclones. 
In contrast to depressions, anticyclones only involve one type of air mass which usually cover large areas and do not have any fronts. They are high pressure systems in which the air moves downwards towards the earth's surface. As the air descends, the molecules become compressed, the pressure increases and it warms. Anticyclones can also result in temperature inversions. Low level temperature inversions are formed in anticyclones when air that has been heated up during the day sits up in the atmosphere, sits on top of air that is cooled during the night through the rapid loss of heat from the ground.
High pressure or an ‘anticyclone’ usually brings a variety of settled, dry weather, depending on the season. During winter the weather under high pressure over the UK can be often cold and cloudy during the daytime with nights often cold enough to allow frost to form. There are two main types of anticyclone, a cold and warm anticyclone. Cold anticyclones form typically over polar climates, here temperatures are very low and the air is often cold and dense.