Moshe Dayan was an Israeli military leader who later became a crusader for peace. He played a key role in four wars and helped negotiate the Israel-Egypt peace treaty. Dayan's activities in the 1948 War of Independence began when he commanded the defense of Jewish settlements in the Jordan Valley. He later commanded the battalion that attacked the city of Lydda and helped halt Egyptian forces on the southern front. In August 1948, he was appointed commander on the Jerusalem front.
There is an element of truth to Dayan's claim, but it is important to note that Israel regarded the de-militarized zones in the north as part of their sovereign territory and reserved the right to cultivate them—a right that the Syrians consistently resisted with force. Moshe and Ruth's daughter, Yael Dayan, a novelist, is best known in Israel for her book, My Father, His Daughter, about her relationship with her father. She followed him into politics and has been a member of several Israeli leftist parties over the years.
Moshe Dayan was born on 20 May 1915 on Kibbutz Degania Alef, near the Sea of Galilee in what was then Ottoman Syria or Palestine, within the Ottoman Empire. Dayan's parents, Shmuel and Devorah Dayan, were Jewish immigrants from Ukraine. Moshe and Ruth's daughter, Yael Dayan, a novelist, is best known in Israel for her book, My Father, His Daughter, about her relationship with her father. She followed him into politics and has been a member of several Israeli leftist parties over the years.
His reigning title, Dayan, means the Great Yuan, as he enthroned himself as Great Khan of the Great Yuan, though the Yuan dynasty, the principal khanate of the Mongol Empire, had already been overthrown by the Chinese Ming dynasty a century earlier (1368). It is claimed that Batumongke was the son of Bayanmongke (Bayanmunh) (fl. 1470-79) the Bolkhu jinong (or crown prince / viceroy) of the Borjigin clan and Shiker Taiko (Shihir Taihu) of the Uriyangkhai in Mongolia. His paternal grandmother, Sechen, was a daughter of Esen Tayshi of the Oirats.
Dayan was the second child born on at Degania, after Gideon Baratz (1913–1988). He was named Moshe after Moshe Barsky, the first member of Degania to be killed in an Arab attack, who died getting medication for his father. Moshe and Ruth's daughter, Yael Dayan, a novelist, is best known in Israel for her book, My Father, His Daughter, about her relationship with her father. She followed him into politics and has been a member of several Israeli leftist parties over the years.
When the British outlawed the Haganah in 1939, Dayan was arrested and imprisoned for two years. Upon his release in 1941, Dayan joined the British army, where he served with the forces that liberated Lebanon and Syria from Vichy France during World War II. Dayan was wounded in battle in Lebanon and lost his left eye. Dayan's activities in the 1948 War of Independence began when he commanded the defense of Jewish settlements in the Jordan Valley. He later commanded the battalion that attacked the city of Lydda and helped halt Egyptian forces on the southern front. In August 1948, he was appointed commander on the Jerusalem front.
Moshe Dayan (Hebrew: משה דיין ‎; 20 May 1915 – 16 October 1981) was an Israeli military leader and politician. He was the second child born on the first kibbutz, but he moved with his family in 1921, and he grew up on a moshav. Moshe and Ruth's daughter, Yael Dayan, a novelist, is best known in Israel for her book, My Father, His Daughter, about her relationship with her father. She followed him into politics and has been a member of several Israeli leftist parties over the years.
[ 2 syll. da-yan, day-an ] The baby boy name Dayan is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is D-ahYae-N †. Dayan is largely used in the Hebrew language, and it is derived from Hebrew and Sanskrit origins. From Hebrew roots, its meaning is judge. Dayan is a variant of the name Dayanand (Indian). Dayan is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names
Dayan's military prowess allowed him to rise to the rank of chief of operations at General Headquarters in 1952, and, in 1953, he was elected Chief of Staff of the armed forces. Dayan became Chief of Staff during a time of severe Arab belligerence. Dayan's activities in the 1948 War of Independence began when he commanded the defense of Jewish settlements in the Jordan Valley. He later commanded the battalion that attacked the city of Lydda and helped halt Egyptian forces on the southern front. In August 1948, he was appointed commander on the Jerusalem front.