Origin of the name Leopold: Modern form of the Old High German Liutbalt (bold people), a compound name composed from the elements liut (people) and balt (bold, strong). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. The boy's name Leopold is pronounced LE-oh-pold. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Leopold is brave ruler of people. Comes from the German words liut meaning people, and bold meaning brave. Name Day: The 15th November is the day of Saint Leopold in the German liturgical calendar.
Leopoldo is a somewhat prominent first name for males (#865 out of 1220, Top 71%) and also a somewhat prominent last name for both adults and children (#88461 out of 150436, Top 59%). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of Leopoldo and corresponding names. Popular varying forms of Leopoldo ranked in the Top 1000 are Leo (#97 last year) and Leopold.
Look up Leopold in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Leopold is an originally Germanic name composed of two stems, common to Germanic names. The first part is related to the Latin word  Leo , meaning lion (although some say the first part is related to Old High German  liut  meaning people). The Germanic peoples had no word for lion as they weren't aware of the existence of lions until they established contacts with the Romans. The second part is of Germanic origin and means brave, compare  bold . The name hence originally meant something close to as brave as a lion.
Leopold ▼ has 3 variants: Leo ▲ , Leopoldo and Leupold. Leopold is an unusual first name for males but a very prominent last name for all people (#7560 out of 150436, Top 5%). Leopold /leo-pold/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced LEE-oh-pold. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Leopold is brave people. A saint's name. A royal or aristocratic name in Belgium, Austria, and Britain. Kreatif forms: Lapold, Laupold, Lopold
Meanings and history of the name Leopold : | Edit. The boy's name Leopold is pronounced LE-oh-pold. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Leopold is brave ruler of people. Comes from the German words liut meaning people, and bold meaning brave. Name Day: The 15th November is the day of Saint Leopold in the German liturgical calendar.
Leopoldo /leopol-do/ [4 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Leopoldo is brave people. Leopoldo is an alternate form of Leopold (Old German): a saint's name. Compare surname Leipold. Kreatif forms of Leopoldo: Lapoldo, Leopollo, Lepoldo, Lopoldo, Lupoldo. Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of Leopoldo and corresponding names. Popular varying forms of Leopoldo ranked in the Top 1000 are Leo (#97 last year) and Leopold.
In Italian the meaning of the name Leopoldo is: A bold man. Portuguese Meaning: The name Leopoldo is a Portuguese baby name. In Portuguese the meaning of the name Leopoldo is: A bold man. Spanish Meaning: The name Leopoldo is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Leopoldo is: A bold man. American Meaning: The name Leopoldo is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Leopoldo is: A bold man. German Meaning: The name Leopoldo is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Leopoldo is: Prince of the people
Meanings and history of the name Leopoldo: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Leopoldo: | Edit. Leopoldo Federico, singer / songwriter. Leopoldo Fernandez, actor. Leopoldo Polo Labastida, singer. Leopoldo Mastelloni, singer/actor. Leopoldo Mateos, singer. 
What does Leopoldo mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Leopoldo is of Italian, Portuguese and Spanish origin. The meaning of Leopoldo is people bold. Leopoldo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 4 syllables and is pronounced Le-o-pol-do. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3114 in baby name popularity for boys with 36 occurrences.