Earth's magnetic field, also known as the geomagnetic field, is the magnetic field that extends from the Earth 's interior to where it meets the solar wind, a stream of charged particles emanating from the Sun. The Earth and most of the planets in the Solar System, as well as the Sun and other stars, all generate magnetic fields through the motion of highly conductive fluids. The Earth's field originates in its core. This is a region of iron alloys extending to about 3400 km (the radius of the Earth is 6370 km).
Unlike a bar magnet, however, Earth's magnetic field changes over time because it is generated by a geodynamo (in Earth's case, the motion of molten iron alloys in its outer core). The North and South magnetic poles wander widely, but sufficiently slowly for ordinary compasses to remain useful for navigation. The Earth and most of the planets in the Solar System, as well as the Sun and other stars, all generate magnetic fields through the motion of highly conductive fluids. The Earth's field originates in its core. This is a region of iron alloys extending to about 3400 km (the radius of the Earth is 6370 km).
The earth's magnetic field makes the earth a dipole magnet with a north and a south magnetic pole. The magnetic field is not very strong, but it's strong enough to make a magnetic compass work. And it's a super friendly phenomenon that deflects a lot of charged particles that are streaming off the sun away from and around the earth; it protects us from the solar wind. The actual mechanism that generates tha … t magnetic field is not known, but it is suspected to be dynamo action in an area of molten nickel-iron outside the core of the earth. Recall that the earth's core is thought to be a super hot molten mass of nickel-iron.
Magnetic field. The Earth is like a giant magnet with a magnetic pole near the North Pole and the opposite near the South Pole. The north pole of a magnet seeks the North Magnetic Pole. Through the ages, indications are that the poles switched directions. No one is sure why this happened. The Earth is a rotating sphere that orbits the Sun. The axis of rotation of the Earth is at a constant tilt with respect to its orbit around the Sun, thus resulting in the change of seasons. Iron and oxygen make up 65% of the Earth's mass.
Good question !   The answer is that when scientists first began to investigate magnets, the pole of a magnet that tries to point North was called a north-seeking po … le.   The word seeking was quietly dropped when people got tired of saying it. The magnetic polarity of 'Magnetic North'  is a south pole, and the magnetic polarity of 'Magnetic South' is a  north pole. This explains why the 'North-Seeking' pole of a compass  is attracted towards Magnetic North. Answered. In Archaeology
Like a planet sized bar magnet, the Earth's magnetic field is oriented to give a magnetic north Pole and the magnetic South Pole. The Earth's magnetic field structures far into space for about 60,000 kilometers. All the members of the Solar System have magnetic fields. The actual mechanism that generates tha … t magnetic field is not known, but it is suspected to be dynamo action in an area of molten nickel-iron outside the core of the earth. Recall that the earth's core is thought to be a super hot molten mass of nickel-iron.
The Earth is like a giant magnet because it generates a magnetic field and has a North and South Pole. The Magnetic North pole is attracted to the Geographical South Pole, a … s opposites attract. The magnetic polarity of 'Magnetic North'  is a south pole, and the magnetic polarity of 'Magnetic South' is a  north pole. This explains why the 'North-Seeking' pole of a compass  is attracted towards Magnetic North. Answered. In Archaeology