Isopropyl myristate is the ester of isopropanol and myristic acid. Isopropyl myristate is used in cosmetic and topical medicinal preparations where good absorption through the skin is desired.
Isopropyl Myristate is a synthetic oil used as an emollient, thickening agent, or lubricant in beauty products. Composed of of Isopropyl Alcohol (a propane derivative) and Myristic Acid (a naturally-occurring fatty acid), Isopropyl Myristate is a popular cosmetic and pharmaceutical ingredient. Nonetheless, it should be used with caution by people with normal to oily skin since it is comedogenic and may trigger acne inflammation. Recommended Products with Isopropyl Myristate: Retrospect Feet, Knees & Elbows ($38 in the shop); Medik8 Firewall ($145 in the shop); Hyalogic Episilk Lip Balm ($6.95 in the shop).
For example, Isopropyl Myristate is derived from Myristic Acid and isopropyl alcohol, and Butyl Myristate is derived from Myristic Acid and butyl alcohol. Safety Information: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) permits fatty acids, including Myristic Acid to be directly added to food. Myristic Acid is a saturated fatty acid with 14 carbon atoms. In cosmetics and personal care products, Myristic Acid functions as an opacifying agent and a surfactant a€“ â cleansing. agent
Uses [edit]. Isopropyl myristate is used in cosmetic and topical medicinal preparations where good absorption through the skin is desired. It is also used as a pesticide-free treatment against head lice which works by dissolving the wax that covers the exoskeleton of head lice, killing them by dehydration
Isopropyl myristate is perfectly safe as a cosmetic ingredient and there are no issues with it as far as end users are concerned. It has been attacked by scaremongers either from ignorance or more likely from a cynical desire to sell inferior products at high prices. “What I can say is that I have had plenty of isopropyl myristate on my. skin over the years and it has never given me a single blackhead.”. Hm, this is kind of against the title of your page “Information based on scientific facts”….
Medical Definition of ISOPROPYL MYRISTATE. : an ester C17H34O2 of isopropyl alcohol and myristic acid that is used as an emollient to promote absorption through the skin. What made you want to look up isopropyl myristate? 
In cosmetics and personal care products, Myristic Acid functions as an opacifying agent and a surfactant a€“ â cleansing. Agent among the salts and esters Of Myristic acid that may be used in cosmetics and personal care, Products Isopropyl myristate is most likely to be. used Myristic Acid is a saturated fatty acid with 14 carbon atoms. In cosmetics and personal care products, Myristic Acid functions as an opacifying agent and a surfactant a€“ â cleansing. agent
It is most often used an an additive in aftershaves, shampoos, bath oils, antiperspirants, deodorants, oral hygiene products, and various creams and lotions. A unique characteristic of Isopropyl Myristate is its ability to reduce the greasy feel caused by the high oil content of other ingredients in a product. This synthetic oil is often added to beauty products to give them a slicker, sheer feel rather than an oily one. Nonetheless, it should be used with caution by people with normal to oily skin since it is comedogenic and may trigger acne inflammation. Recommended Products with Isopropyl Myristate: Retrospect Feet, Knees & Elbows ($38 in the shop); Medik8 Firewall ($145 in the shop); Hyalogic Episilk Lip Balm ($6.95 in the shop).
About ISOPROPYL MYRISTATE: Isopropyl Myristate is composed of of isopropyl alcohol and myristic acid, a common, naturally occurring fatty acid. This ingredient may be derived from animals. From PETA's Caring Consumer: Organic acid in most animal and vegetable fats. In butter acids. Used in shampoos, creams, cosmetics. In food flavorings. Derivatives: Isopropyl Myristate, Myristal Ether Sulfate, Myristyls, Oleyl Myristate. This ingredient may be derived from animals. From PETA's Caring Consumer: Organic acid in most animal and vegetable fats. In butter acids. Used in shampoos, creams, cosmetics. In food flavorings. Derivatives: Isopropyl Myristate, Myristal Ether Sulfate, Myristyls, Oleyl Myr ...
Isopropyl myristate was used as oil phase in the preparation of formulations 1. It was also used as oil/water-type tacrolimus (FK506) solvent 2. 