Wikipedia has this to say about geofences: A Geofence is a virtual perimeter on a geographic area using a location-based service, so that when the geofencing device enters or exits the area a notification is generated. The notification can contain information about the location of the device and might be sent to a mobile telephone or an email account. About the author. Joe Colburn is a software engineer specializing in PHP and a technology enthusiast. Always eager to dive into new and exciting things, Joe writes about anything technology related news and products that he thinks you will also be excited about. Find Joe Colburn on Google+ or by any of the links below.
Geofencing is a term used primarily in the corporate world that refers to the practice of limiting mobile employees to a specific geographic location by tracking their whereabouts via the technology of a global positioning system (GPS). In order for geofencing to work, the company’s vehicles must be fitted with a GPS tracking unit or the employees themselves must carry a wireless phone or other device equipped with GPS. Whenever a given person or vehicle goes somewhere out of limits, an alert is sent back to the company’s monitoring headquarters. Ad.
Geofencing is a critical element to telematics hardware and software. It allows users of the system to draw zones around places of work, customer's sites and secure areas. These geo-fences when crossed by an equipped vehicle or person can trigger a warning to the user or operator via SMS or Email. This activity could trigger an alert to the device's user as well as messaging to the geo-fence operator. This info, which could contain the location of the device, could be sent to a mobile telephone or an email account.
Geofencing Technology. Canada’s First Successful Deployment of Geofencing Technology combines awareness of the user’s current location with awareness of the user’s proximity to locations that may be of interest. To mark a location of interest, you specify its latitude and longitude. Canada’s first successful deployment of geofencing technology assures merchants the ability to generate revenue through targeting Android & iOS mobile devices with the Canada Mobile Payments app for marketing offerings. Merchants can: 1  Identify a mobile users proximity. 2  Use of GPS co-ordinates. 3  Encapsulate an area
A geo-fence could be dynamically generated—as in a radius around a store or point location, or a geo-fence can be a predefined set of boundaries, like school attendance zones or neighborhood boundaries. This activity could trigger an alert to the device's user as well as messaging to the geo-fence operator. This info, which could contain the location of the device, could be sent to a mobile telephone or an email account.
Geofencing combines awareness of the user's current location with awareness of the user's proximity to locations that may be of interest. To mark a location of interest, you specify its latitude and longitude. To adjust the proximity for the location, you add a radius. The latitude, longitude, and radius define a geofence, creating a circular area, or fence, around the location of interest. You can have multiple active geofences, with a limit of 100 per device user
Geo-fencing (geofencing) is a feature in a software program that uses the global positioning system (GPS) or radio frequency identification (RFID) to define geographical boundaries. A geofence is a virtual barrier. - A unified computing system (UCS) is a data center architecture that integrates computing, networking and storage resources and is managed through a single software application.
The process of using a geo-fence is called geo-fencing, and one example of usage involves a location-aware device of a location-based service (LBS) user entering or exiting a geo-fence. This activity could trigger an alert to the device's user as well as messaging to the geo-fence operator. This info, which could contain the location of the device, could be sent to a mobile telephone or an email account.
Limitations of Geofencing. Usually, location-based service devices trigger the geofence notification when they have already crossed it. Notifications are usually not in real time so alerts that offer information about a trespassing incident or vehicle theft may not be the most reliable tracking individuals or vehicles. A geofence sends a notification of a location-based service device if they are entering or leaving a particular geofence. The notification can be received by a range of location-based service device like a laptop or a mobile phone.