GM1 gangliosidosis is one of over 50 different l ysosomal storage diseases. It is characterized by the lack of the enzyme, beta-galactisodase. The job of beta-galactisodase is to break down GM1, a type of fatty molecule called a lipid, that is an important component of normal nerve cells called neurons.
GM1 gangliosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord. Some researchers classify this condition into three major types based on the age at which signs and symptoms first appear.
Overview. GM1 gangliosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord. Some researchers classify this condition into three major types based on the age at which signs and symptoms first appear.
GM1 gangliosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord. Some researchers classify this condition into three major types based on the age at which signs and symptoms first appear.
GM1 gangliosidosis is an inherited disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord.
Gangliosidosis is a rare type of lipidosis, or lipid storage disorder, in which the lipids affected are the gangliosides. Lipid storage disorders are hereditary disorders in which harmful amounts of lipids, or fats, accumulate in body tissues and cells. Gangliosides are lipids located on the surface of cells.
1 GM1 gangliosidosis: A rare biochemical disorder involving a deficiency of an enzyme (beta-galactosidase A) which results in the accumulation of harmful chemicals (GM1 gangliosides) in the central nervous system and other body tissues.
The signs and symptoms of the most severe form of GM1 gangliosidosis, called type I or the infantile form, usually become apparent by the age of 6 months. Infants with this form of the disorder typically appear normal until their development slows and muscles used for movement weaken.