home | about | FAQ | blog. If your cell phone randomly shuts off, won't turn on, or doesn't hold a charge, it's likely time to replace the battery. Fortunately, battery replacement is perhaps the easiest do-it-yourself cell phone repair-at least, for most current phone models. 1. Open your cell phone's battery compartment. It varies by phone, but this will typically involve using your fingernails to unsnap the back or gently pushing and sliding the back cover off. If you have trouble, check your phone's manual for specific instructions. 2. Remove the battery
Instructions. Determine which Samsung phone you have. Locate the model number of the phone on the phone itself, usually underneath the battery. You can also find the model number by looking in the cell phone user manual. The model number is generally printed inside the phone under the battery. Proceed to Step 3 to remove the old battery. Purchase a replacement battery. Visit your cell phone service provider's store to get a replacement---or you can find the right battery online (see References). Most Samsung battery replacements cost less than $20 U.S. Turn off the cell phone completely before attempting to remove the old cell phone battery. Make sure the phone is clean and dry. Remove the back cover of the cell phone. Some Samsung phones have a plastic outer cover over the battery, while on other models the back of the phone is the back of the battery itself. Locate the release button or slider on the back of the phone. 
Dr Cruess explains how to remove a case, the shell of the phone and replace the battery. It is recommended to leave the battery out for 30 seconds before re-installing. This will fix most issues with this phone. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Please try again later. Learn how to safely replace the battery in your Samsung Galaxy android smartphone with this how-to video from Batteries.com. We cover all of the basics to get your new battery in place and ready to power your phone with tips on battery removal and charging when it's done. 
How do you remove the battery on a Samsung m500??? I'm trying to slide the battery down while pushing at the top of the battery, but it won't budge! › See More: Samsung m500 - How to remove the battery??? 
Watch the video demonstrate how remove and replace the BlackBerry Bold 9700. Related: How to find IMEI number of a mobile phone. Remember, before removing the battery make sure your cell phone is switched off. Step 1: Hold the cell phone with its back facing you and look for any lock or grip lines on the back side. Step 2: Press the lock to remove the back cover or gently press the grip lines and slide the cover in towards the bottom of your cell phone. And take out the cover. Step 3: Gently lift the battery using your nail or small screw driver or a small spoon handle.
Charging the battery regularly will ensure your mobile phone is always ready for use. The battery can be charged even if it isn't completely flat. You can still use your mobile phone while the battery is charging. 1. Connect the charger to your mobile phone. Connect the charger to the phone socket and to a power point. When the battery charging icon is displayed, charging is in progress. 2. End charging. When the battery is fully charged, you can remove the charger from the power point and your mobile phone. When your mobile phone is turned on, you can always see the battery power level
This article describes how to remove the battery of your cell phone. Remember, before removing the battery make sure your cell phone is switched off. Step 1: Hold the cell phone with its back facing you and look for any lock or grip lines on the back side. Step 2: Press the lock to remove the back cover or gently press the grip lines and slide the cover in towards the bottom of your cell phone. And take out the cover. Step 3: Gently lift the battery using your nail or small screw driver or a small spoon handle.