Hourly rates have declined for both types of instructors, compared with past data. Instructors report earning an average of $24.50, down from $25.75 in 2008 and only slightly higher than in 2006 ($23.75). Specialty instructors are earning an average of $27.75 per hour, compared with $31.50 in 2008 and $28.50 in 2006. Few of these individuals are salaried (1% of group fitness instructors, 6% of specialty instructors), though a large percentage are considered employees (64% and 61%).
The annual salary for someone with the job title Fitness Instructor may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Fitness Instructor in the United States is $40,966, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Fitness Instructor in the United States are expected to make less than $40,966. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits
Teachers in small colleges sometimes work as part of the theater or physical education departments. College, university and professional dance teachers earned an hourly mean wage of $25.33, the BLS says. It didn't report an annual salary for this occupation due to the fact that many dance teachers work part time. Dance instructors with years of professional experience offer master classes to students and other dancers. A master instructor charges a fee for each participant and the teacher takes home cash based on name recognition and the number of students drawn to the class.
Aerobics Instructor Salary. (United States). The average rate for an Aerobics Instructor is $18.80 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. $9.79 - $25.20
That was the highest salary of 10 cities surveyed. The lowest annual salary, $53,065, was for teachers instructing classes in Orlando, Florida. According to the BLS, secondary school teachers earned a mean annual wage of $56,760. Dance instructors with years of professional experience offer master classes to students and other dancers. A master instructor charges a fee for each participant and the teacher takes home cash based on name recognition and the number of students drawn to the class.
Support an exceptional cooking class experience at every class by acting as an extension of the instructor, reinforcing and supporting the techniques being... 31 minutes ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Sur La Table jobs in Sugar Land, TX-Sugar Land jobs. 2  Salary Search: Kitchen Assistant salaries in Sugar Land, TX. HOWEVER, if you have a new course idea OR if you would like to be considered for a future... 14 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Northampton Community College jobs in Bethlehem, PA-Bethlehem jobs. 2  Salary Search: Adult Personal Enrichment Class Instructor salaries in Bethlehem, PA.
There’s a wide spread of salaries and jobs in the culinary industry. Wages can vary by occupation, venue, experience, even the city of employment. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average yearly wage for a chef or head cook was about $44,780. The average hourly wage was about $21.53. Top earners are the chefs we see on TV, who earn their money not just through restaurants and cooking shows, but also through marketing their brands
If you want to pay your rent as a yoga teacher, you need to work diligently, consistently, and intelligently. So before we decide that you are going to teach 10,000 classes a week to generate revenue, let’s be smart and deal with an important concept: diversification. If January treats you well and you average 12 students per class at a rate of $4.50 per student (this is fairly generous for a newer teacher, but let’s go for it), you will total $540 per week.