How long does it take the moon to change from one phase to the next? The full lunar cycle is 28 days from full moon to full moon. So, from full to last half is seven days, to new moon (no moon visible) is fourteen days, to first half is twenty- … one days, and back to full moon is 28 days. The full lunar cycle is roughly 4 weeks, and from full-moon to new-moon is half the cycle, so it would take (roughly) 2 weeks to go from full to new moon.
How long does it take the Moon to orbit the Earth? The Moon takes about 27 days (27 days, 7 hours, 43 minutes, 11.6 seconds) to go all the way around the Earth and return to its starting position. The Moon's orbit around the Earth is a slightly squashed circle called an ellipse.
What is a blue Moon? A blue moon is the name for the second full moon in a single month. The moon takes 29.5 days to go through a full cycle of phases, so on rare occassions (about once every 2 3/4 years), two full moons will fit in a single month. This is rare that is why it is called the blue moon. 
A lunar month is about 29.5 days (29 days, 12 hours, 43 minutes, 11.6 seconds). Why is a Lunar month (29.5 days) longer than the number of days it takes the Moon to orbit the Earth (27.3)? Whilst the Moon is orbiting the Earth, the Earth is constantly moving because it is orbiting the sun. The Moon takes about 27 days (27 days, 7 hours, 43 minutes, 11.6 seconds) to go all the way around the Earth and return to its starting position. The Moon's orbit around the Earth is a slightly squashed circle called an ellipse.
The time it takes an object to complete one revolution with respect to the stars is called a sidereal period. The Moon has a sidereal period of 27.3 days and a synodic period of 29.5 days. The Earth has a sidereal period of 365.25 days but it doesn't have a synodic period. The Moon has a synodic period of 29.5 days. (Actually that's 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes and 3 seconds. ) The Moon returns to its phase during a synodic period so there are 29.5 days between each New Moon (or Full Moon, or Crescent Moon, etc.).
Technically, each phase, just like the one called a New Moon, when the Moon is exactly between Earth and the Sun, lasts only a brief instant. But to our eyes, a New Moon can last for a few days, representing the time that the Moon appears in the sky too near the Sun's position for us to see it at all. The Moon itself puts out no light at all. It takes about four weeks for the Moon to orbit once around Earth. During this time, the Moon's position relative to Earth and the Sun is constantly changing. During part of its journey, the Moon is between Earth and the Sun. Then, a few days later, it is off to one side
The cycle of phases is a bit longer than its orbital period of 27.32 days, becau … se as the Earth orbits the Sun during that period, the moon's orbit must 'catch up' a little bit to cycle through the same geometric positions with the Earth and Sun. This accounts for the extra 1.18 days. The full lunar cycle is roughly 4 weeks, and from full-moon to new-moon is half the cycle, so it would take (roughly) 2 weeks to go from full to new moon.
It takes (exactly) 27.321661 days (Earth days) for the Moon to complete one revolution around the Earth. So the time between two Full Moons is about 27.3 days and a Moon day equals 27.3 Earth days. The Moon has a synodic period of 29.5 days. (Actually that's 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes and 3 seconds. ) The Moon returns to its phase during a synodic period so there are 29.5 days between each New Moon (or Full Moon, or Crescent Moon, etc.).
How long does it take our Moon to go around Earth? It takes 27 days, 7 hours, and 43 minutes for our Moon to complete one full orbit around Earth. This is called the sidereal month, and is measured by our Moon's position relative to distant fixed stars. However, it takes our Moon about 29.5 days to complete one cycle of phases (from new Moon to new Moon). This is called the synodic month. The difference between the sidereal and synodic months occurs because as our Moon moves around Earth, the Earth also moves around our Sun