1 The vascular cambium is involved in producing secondary xylem (wood) and secondary phloem. 2  Secondary phloem is the secondary growth tissue that conducts food that the plant makes from the leaves to the rest of the plant. 3  The cork cambium is involved in producing the tough, thick covering of a stem and root. 1 Secondary xylem is the wood of a tree trunk. 2  The annual rings are created by alternating bands of summer wood cells and spring wood cells. 3  The summer wood cells are smaller in diameter, due to less available water, while the spring cells are larger in diameter due to rapid growth from more abundant water.
The cambium present between primary xylem and primary phloem is called intrafasicular cambium. At the time of secondary growth, cells of meduallary rays, in a line with intrafasicular cambium, become meristematic and form interfasicular cambium. The vascular cambium then produces secondary xylem on the inside of the ring, and secondary phloem on the outside, pushing the primary xylem and phloem apart.
· The xylem is the vascular tissue through which most of the water and minerals of the tree are conducted. More secondary xylem (added toward the inside of the cambium layer) than secondary phloem (added toward the outside of the cambium layer) is produced by the cambium. The definition of wood is secondary xylem, reflected by the origin of the term 'xylem', the Greek word xylon, for wood. Another layer, the cork cambium, contributes to the expanding girth of a tree. The cork cambium is a thin layer cells that ultimately produces the bark of the tree.
Cambium lies between the old wood and the bark of the tree. The vascular cambium is a thin layer cells that produces conducting cells  xylem and phloem. · The phloem is the outer layer, and is sometimes referred to as the inner bark. It is a food conducting tissue. The xylem is located toward the inside of the cambium layer. · The xylem is the vascular tissue through which most of the water and minerals of the tree are conducted. More secondary xylem (added toward the inside of the cambium layer) than secondary phloem (added toward the outside of the cambium layer) is produced by the cambium. The definition of wood is secondary xylem, reflected by the origin of the term ‘xylem’, the Greek word xylon, for wood.
The secondary phloem is crushed and compacted, though nothing happens to the xylem except that it stops growing. When the growing season starts up again the next year, the vascular cambium forms new layers of secondary phloem and xylem. These layers of xylem form the tree rings used in dating wood. Drink Up. Xylem brings water up from the roots into the rest of the tree. Like phloem, primary xylem forms in primary growth, and secondary xylem forms in secondary growth. As the growing season continues, the secondary xylem expands to the point where the secondary phloem can’t stay intact anymore.
As dendrochronologists, we are more interested in the fusiform initials. The fusiform initials produce secondary xylem and secondary phloem (the xylem and phloem produced during secondary growth). When we study wood or tree rings, we are looking at secondary xylem. As the fusiform initials divide, they produce secondary xylem towards the inside of the cell and secondary phloem towards the outside. Therefore, the vascular cambium (where we find the fusiform initials) is considered to be bifacial. 
1 Secondary phloem is the secondary growth tissue that conducts food that the plant makes from the leaves to the rest of the plant. 2  The cork cambium is involved in producing the tough, thick covering of a stem and root. 3  Secondary xylem is the wood of a tree trunk. 1 Secondary xylem is the wood of a tree trunk. 2  The annual rings are created by alternating bands of summer wood cells and spring wood cells. 3  The summer wood cells are smaller in diameter, due to less available water, while the spring cells are larger in diameter due to rapid growth from more abundant water.
· Secondary growth takes place in the vascular cambium and the cork cambium and results in an increase in the diameter of the stem or trunk of the tree. Cambium lies between the old wood and the bark of the tree. The vascular cambium is a thin layer cells that produces conducting cells-xylem and phloem. · The phloem is the outer layer, and is sometimes referred to as the inner bark. It is a food conducting tissue. The definition of wood is secondary xylem, reflected by the origin of the term 'xylem', the Greek word xylon, for wood. Another layer, the cork cambium, contributes to the expanding girth of a tree. The cork cambium is a thin layer cells that ultimately produces
Those tree rings are made of old secondary xylem. The anatomy of wood is a lot more intricate than many people realize. The rings, knots and grain are all the result of detailed growth cycles that allow a tree to increase in size. What people call wood is actually the accumulation of a vascular tissue called xylem, which works with another tissue called phloem to keep the tree alive. Drink Up. Xylem brings water up from the roots into the rest of the tree. Like phloem, primary xylem forms in primary growth, and secondary xylem forms in secondary growth. As the growing season continues, the secondary xylem expands to the point where the secondary phloem can’t stay intact anymore.