The Berlin wall split Germany into two parts, East and West, the East was controlled by the Communists and the west by the Democratic party of Germany, so when the wall was to … rn down in 1989, Germany became one country once more. What two countries did the Berlin Wall separate? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. You were on two full seasons of The Swan, an extreme makeover reality television show on Fox. What was the experience like? What is a wall separating two cavities a partition? What two countries are ...
The Berlin Wall (German: Berliner Mauer) separated the city of Berlin in Germany from 1961 to 1989. It separated the eastern half from the western half. Many people thought it was a symbol of the Cold War. The Berlin Wall was taken down on November 9, 1989. The Berlin Wall was about 168 km (104 miles) long. 
West Germany was democratic, East Germany communist. Many citizens of East Germany fled to West Germany, and the Berlin Wall was erected to stop this flow. It wasn't torn down till decades later. hermione_bjc_06 · 9 years ago. The Berlin was was between West Berlin and East Germany as an iconic barrier, part of the Iron Curtain.
The Berlin Wall became part of the Iron Curtain which separated the Communist eastern bloc of Europe from the west during the Cold War. The East German authorities claimed that building the wall was important to defend Communist East Berlin from the capitalist western section of the city. Until the construction of the wall the section border between East and West Berlin was open. Over half a million people passed it every day. Many East Berliners worked in the western part of the city, some went shopping and to bars and cinemas there.
On 13 August 1961 the East German government started building The Berlin Wall, which separated West from East Berlin. It was made up of large concrete walls, barbed wire and guard towers. Until the construction of the wall the section border between East and West Berlin was open. Over half a million people passed it every day. Many East Berliners worked in the western part of the city, some went shopping and to bars and cinemas there.
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere.
So half of Berlin became part of west germany and half became part of east germany. So the berlin wall separated the half of Berlin that was part of west germany from east germany which surrounded it. dugfromthearth · 9 years ago. The Berlin was was between West Berlin and East Germany as an iconic barrier, part of the Iron Curtain.
The capital of West Germany was Bonn. While the capital of East Germany, former communist DDR (Deutsche Demokratische Republik) was East Berlin, separated from West Berlin by … the famous infamous wall. You have to realize that after WWII, Germany had been divided in two parts. What two countries did the Berlin Wall separate? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. You were on two full seasons of The Swan, an extreme makeover reality television show on Fox. What was the experience like? What is a wall separating two cavities a partition? What two countries are ...
The Berlin Wall was a barrier that divided Berlin from 1961 to 1989, constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany) starting on 13 August 1961, that completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. 
The German Democratic Republic of East Germany began erecting the Berlin Wall on August 13, 1961. The purpose of the wall was to separate East Berlin from West Berlin and prevented citizens from defecting to West Germany. 1. Other Names for the Berlin Wall. The Berlin Wall is known by many names: 1  Anti-Fascist Protection Rampart. 2  Wall of Shame. 3  Inner German Border