Place the chicken, skin side down, onto the Big Green Egg grill grate. Cook for 8 to 10 minutes on each side of the breast, or until a meat thermometer inserted in the thickest part of the chicken breasts registers a temperature of 170 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit. The Big Green Egg ceramic grill is designed to let you grill, smoke and bake using one product rather than three. The thick ceramic walls retain heat, allowing you to cook your meats longer at lower temperatures, much like a smoker, but opening the lid gives you the convenience of a traditional charcoal grill.
How to Cook Chicken Breasts on the Big Green Egg. Grilled chicken breast dinner. Photo Credit gbh007/iStock/Getty Images. The Big Green Egg ceramic grill is designed to let you grill, smoke and bake using one product rather than three. The thick ceramic walls retain heat, allowing you to cook your meats longer at lower temperatures, much like a smoker, but opening the lid gives you the convenience of a traditional charcoal grill.
1 Apply dry rub seasoning. 2  Let chicken sit at room temperature for 30 to 45 minutes (this promotes more even cooking). 3  Build a fire in the Big Green Egg. 4  Heat the grill to 300 F, and maintain that temperature. ( 5 Open the bottom vent about one-eighth to one-fourth of the way, and leave the top vent completely open. 1 Let chicken sit at room temperature for 30 to 45 minutes (this promotes more even cooking). 2  Build a fire in the Big Green Egg. 3  Heat the grill to 300 F, and maintain that temperature. ( 4 Open the bottom vent about one-eighth to one-fourth of the way, and leave the top vent completely open.
Grill: Set up your Big Green Egg to direct grilling with a dome temperature of 325F. Place the chicken on the grill skin side down for 20-25 minutes, then flip for another 20-25 minutes. Thaw out your chicken breasts and season them however you like. Since I only grill a few times per week, I try to grill enough for leftovers. It’s really easy to do with chicken, not only because you can fit a ton of chicken breasts on the Egg, but you can season them all differently.
Cook Time: About 50 – 60 minutes (25 – 30 min per side). Big Green Egg chicken wings are a great addition to any summer barbecue or Sunday tailgate. There are a few different ways you can grill up chicken wings; direct, indirect, high heat, or low heat. I have grilled mine both direct and indirect over low heat (325F). I marinade them in a store bought sauce and flip the wings exactly once when they’re on the grill. You can skip the marinade and jazz up your wings with some dry rubs like Dizzy Pig, go right ahead, the cooking method will still be the same. Big Green Egg Chicken Wings 1. Big Green Egg Chicken Wings 2.
4. Pour the other half of the beer into a spray bottle. Add the apple cider, olive oil, and balsamic vinegar to the spray bottle, and mix. Spray the chicken with the mixture. 5. Set the chicken on the roaster, tucking in the wings. Set the roaster on a drip pan inside the Big Green Egg. 6
If using the beer can, slide the chicken down over the can. Place the chicken, still on the Roaster, on the grid and close the lid of the EGG. Cook, using the spray bottle to baste the chicken once or twice, for 20 minutes, or until the chicken is just beginning to brown all over. Cover the chicken and set aside at room temperature for 30 minutes. Pour half of the beer into the spray bottle. Add the apple cider, olive oil, and vinegar and set aside. If using the Ceramic Roaster, pour the remaining beer into the cavity of the Roaster and slide the chicken onto the Roaster, through the tail end.
Set the EGG for indirect cooking with a ConvEGGtor at 375°F/190°C. Apply your favorite rub all over the chicken, even inside the cavity. Work the mixture gently into the skin and under the skin wherever possible. Cover the chicken and set aside at room temperature for 30 minutes. Pour half of the beer into the spray bottle. Add the apple cider, olive oil, and vinegar and set aside. If using the Ceramic Roaster, pour the remaining beer into the cavity of the Roaster and slide the chicken onto the Roaster, through the tail end.
Cook Time: 165F Internal Temperature (20-25 min per side). When I cook Big Green Egg chicken breasts I always have my Polder handy, because under cooked chicken is dangerous. If you don’t have a Polder, I would estimate about 15-20 minutes per side should do the trick for chicken breasts. Thaw out your chicken breasts and season them however you like. Since I only grill a few times per week, I try to grill enough for leftovers. It’s really easy to do with chicken, not only because you can fit a ton of chicken breasts on the Egg, but you can season them all differently.