The Horse Whisperer is a 1998 American drama film directed by and starring Robert Redford, based on the 1995 novel The Horse Whisperer by Nicholas Evans. Evans himself said, Others have claimed to be the inspiration for Tom Booker in The Horse Whisperer. The one who truly inspired me was Buck Brannaman. His skill, understanding and his gentle, loving heart have parted the clouds for countless troubled creatures.
The main character, according to writer Nicholas Evans, is modeled after horse whisperers Tom Dorrance, Ray Hunt and, in particular, their younger disciple Buck Brannaman. Brannaman also doubled for Robert Redford in the film and served as the consultant. Evans himself said, Others have claimed to be the inspiration for Tom Booker in The Horse Whisperer. The one who truly inspired me was Buck Brannaman. His skill, understanding and his gentle, loving heart have parted the clouds for countless troubled creatures.
The Horse Whisperer was filmed in Montana near Livingston and Bozeman. Reputation: 258. I think I read that The Horse Whisperer was filmed south of Bozeman Montana. I watched the movie Flicka, the newer version one with Tim McGraw, I think that was filmed around Sheridan. I'm pretty sure that's what the credits said at the end
Desperate for a way to heal both Grace and Pilgrim, Annie tracks down a  horse whisperer , Tom Booker (Robert Redford), in the remote Montana mountains. Tom agrees to help, but only if Grace also takes part in the process. Evans himself said, Others have claimed to be the inspiration for Tom Booker in The Horse Whisperer. The one who truly inspired me was Buck Brannaman. His skill, understanding and his gentle, loving heart have parted the clouds for countless troubled creatures.
POSTED: 2004-09-10. A portion of the Horse Whisperer was actually filmed at the Springhill Pavillion as well. It's only about 15 minutes from Bozeman. In the film it's where the dance scene was filmed in the building where the sides open up. People often rent the pavillion there for weddings, etc... If you go out springhill rd about 8 miles you will see a sign for Springhill Community.
The visual style of the film played a huge role in the making of 'The Horse Whisperer,' continues Redford. The visual aspect is very important to me because I was an artist, yet I didn't want to put it out there and brandish it or headline it. From there, the company moved to the Gramercy Park area of Manhattan for scenes in the MacLean family apartment. The Museum of the City of New York on Fifth Avenue was used as the exterior of Grace's school.
The town of McLeod is minutes from where The Horse Whisperer was filmed. I have been trying for about a month to find out that information. So thankyou again for responding to my post. Hope to live in that area within two years. In the film it's where the dance scene was filmed in the building where the sides open up. People often rent the pavillion there for weddings, etc... If you go out springhill rd about 8 miles you will see a sign for Springhill Community.
The Horse Whisperer was filmed in many, many different locations. Two of these were on my land North of Big Timber, up Big Timber Canyon. The scene where they are driving around a corner that opens up to a broad valley leading up to the Mountains was filmed here as was one of the early scenes of horses running. In the film it's where the dance scene was filmed in the building where the sides open up. People often rent the pavillion there for weddings, etc... If you go out springhill rd about 8 miles you will see a sign for Springhill Community.
Reputation: 111. The Horse Whisperer was filmed in Montana near Livingston and Bozeman. You even see then stopping at Custer Battlefield on their way out to the ranch. Yes the new version of Flicka was filmed here in Sheridan, alot of it out at Eaton's Dude ranch. Reputation: 258. I think I read that The Horse Whisperer was filmed south of Bozeman Montana. I watched the movie Flicka, the newer version one with Tim McGraw, I think that was filmed around Sheridan. I'm pretty sure that's what the credits said at the end