Trapped and preserved within high mountainous regions between altitudes of 10,000 - 18,000 feet, shilajit is predominantly sourced from locations in the Himalaya's (Tibet and Bhutan) but can also be found in parts of Mongolia, Russia, China, India and Pakistan. These effects are well known in Ayurvedic Medicine (called yoga vahi) and is why shilajit is a common ingredient used in many herbal preparations. There are also ranges of fulvic acid molecules that have the ability to react with cells and uniquely produce new mineral compounds.
Shilajit comes from the Sanskrit compound word shilajatu meaning rock-invincible, which is the regular Ayurveda term. It is also spelled shilajeet (Hindi: शिलाजीत) and salajeet (Urdu: سلاجیت ‎). Once cleaned of impurities and extracted, shilajit is a homogeneous brown-black paste-like substance, with a glossy surface, a peculiar smell and bitter taste. Dry shilajit density ranges from 1.1 to 1.8 g/cm 3.
http://supermanherbs.com/shilajits/ - Shilajit is a Powerful herb famous in Ayurvedic medicine. It is known as the Destroyer of Weakness. It's name has been translated to the Conqueror of Mountains. The standard dosage of shilajit is 250mg to 500mg per day. It has been noted to have no side effects up to 3 grams per kilogram of weight in rats. The only real contraindication seems to be with gout. At superman herbs we are committed to this great herb.
A Mineral-rich Superfood Adaptogen. Shilajit (sheela-jeet) is a dark brown mineral substance classified as an adaptogen for its deeply nourishing and energizing effects on the body. These effects are well known in Ayurvedic Medicine (called yoga vahi) and is why shilajit is a common ingredient used in many herbal preparations. There are also ranges of fulvic acid molecules that have the ability to react with cells and uniquely produce new mineral compounds.
RUDRAMANI SHILAJIT-Special formula from the shilajit plant for anti-aging and energy. Raw Shilajit harvested from Himalayan mountains is purified and processed as per patented process conforming to ISO 9002 and Good Manufacturing Procedure (WH0-GMP) norms. A closely guarded secret of Indian Yogis. 
Over 3 thousand years ago, the ancient Sanskrit holy texts made references to a mysterious substance called Shilajit, which they described as “the destroyer of weakness.” The texts referred to the powerful health and spiritual benefits and positive changes that were experienced by those who used it. Shilajit has that unmatched power of arresting and reversing the aging process. Shilajit, also known as Mumijo, is Fulvic and Humic Acid. Humic substances are considered nature's own best medicine for plants, animals, humans, and the Earth herself.
Shilajit has been described as 'mineral oil', 'stone oil' or 'rock sweat', as it seeps from cracks in mountains due mostly to the warmth of the sun. There are many local legends and stories about its origin, use and properties, often wildly exaggerated. Once cleaned of impurities and extracted, shilajit is a homogeneous brown-black paste-like substance, with a glossy surface, a peculiar smell and bitter taste. Dry shilajit density ranges from 1.1 to 1.8 g/cm 3.
0 reviews | Write a review. Description Reviews (0). Shilajit Powder. Shilajit is a thick, sticky tar-like substance with a color ranging from white to dark brown (the latter is more common), sometimes found in Caucasus mountains, Altai Mountains, and Tibet mountains and mountains of Gilgit Baltistan Pakistan. (Source: Wikipedia.org). Origin:
2 221. Shilajit is an ancient mineral substance that has been preserved in the mountainous Himalayan regions of Tibet, Nepal, and Bhutan, specifically in rocks and cliffs. It offers an array of incredible health benefits including sexual prowess, longevity, memory, and overall wellbeing. 