The soreness is caused by eccentric exercise, that is, exercise consisting of eccentric (lengthening) contractions of the muscle. Isometric (static) exercise causes much less soreness, and concentric (shortening) exercise causes none. The soreness is felt most strongly 24 to 72 hours after the exercise. It is thought to be caused by eccentric (lengthening) exercise, which causes microtrauma to the muscle fibers.
Muscle pain, also called myalgia, refers to pain or discomfort in any muscle of the body. Muscles include skeletal muscles that are attached to bones and contract to move your body. Although we often think of skeletal muscle pain, problems with other kinds of muscle, such as smooth muscle and cardiac muscle, can also cause pain. Smooth muscles are found in the walls of hollow organs in your body, such as your stomach, bladder, and blood vessels, and play a big role in normal organ function. 
Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. It's more often the result of an infection, an illness or a side effect of a medication. Common causes of muscle pain include: 1  Chronic exertional compartment syndrome. 2  Chronic fatigue syndrome. 3  Claudication. 4  Delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS). 
Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), also called muscle fever, is the pain and stiffness felt in muscles several hours to days after unaccustomed or strenuous exercise. The soreness is felt most strongly 24 to 72 hours after the exercise. It is thought to be caused by eccentric (lengthening) exercise, which causes microtrauma to the muscle fibers. After such exercise, the muscle adapts rapidly to prevent muscle damage, and thereby soreness, if the exercise is repeated. Delayed onset muscle soreness is one symptom of exercise-induced muscle damag
The swelling and inflammation can build up for days after a workout, and that's why muscle soreness may be worse two, three, or even four days after a workout (it can take up to five days for muscles to heal completely depending on the intensity of the workout). Lactic acid is a normal byproduct of muscle metabolism, but it can irritate muscles and cause discomfort and soreness. Muscle soreness associated with exercise is known as delayed onset muscle soreness or DOMS.
Arthritis that affects your “shock absorbers” is the cause of pain and disability in knee and hip joints that can lead to surgery. Click here. Learn the symptoms, causes, and treatments of piriformis syndrome. The causes of back pain can be complex -- accidents, muscle strains, sports injuries. Stiffness, pain, lower back pain, and pain radiating down the leg are symptoms of back pain. Overexertion, pinched nerves -- all sorts of joint and muscle problems can cause neck and shoulder pain.
Muscle pain: Aches or pains affecting the muscles. See detailed information below for a list of 956 causes of Muscle pain, Symptom Checker, Assessment Questionnaire, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
Strenuous physical activity causes microscopic tears in muscle tissue. Too much exercise can cause muscle soreness. Strong, flexible muscles and joints may help ward off muscle soreness. Muscles soreness typically occurs between 24 and 72 hours after exercising. Bruising can accompany muscle soreness. Ad. More commonly, muscle soreness is a delayed response that occurs between 24 and 72 hours after exercising. It is referred to as “delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS)” or “muscle fever.” It generally lasts from two to three days, depending on severity. There are several professional opinions as to the cause of DOMS.