Map Coordinates of mouse displays the latitude and longitude in degrees, minutes, seconds decimal, degrees minutes decimal and degrees decimal of the current mouse location. (See convert GPS coordinates to convert latitude-longitude coordinate pairs.). Load Location load a location by coordinates, location name or zip code. Enter the desired value and click the load arrow to the right of the appropriate field.
The Republic of Malta is a south European country consisting of a group of islands in the centre of the Mediterranean. It is bordered by Sicily on the south, Tunisia on the east, Libya on the north, Gibraltar on the west and Alexandria on the east. Print. Malta is an island nation located in the Mediterranean Sea. Malta is an island nation consisting of an archipelago of three main islands and many smaller islands. The major islands of Malta are called Malta, Gozo, and Comino, and these are the only parts of Malta that are inhabited. Smaller islands include Cominotto, Fungus Rock, Islands of St. Paul, Manoel Island, and Filfla.
Malta is the largest of the three major islands that constitute the Maltese archipelago. It is sometimes referred to as Valletta for statistical purposes to distinguish the main island from the entire country. Malta is in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea directly south of Italy and north of Libya. The island is 27 kilometres (17 mi) long and 14.5 kilometres (9 mi) wide, with a total area of 246 square kilometres (95 sq mi). The capital is Valletta, largest city is Qormi and the largest locality is Birkirkara. 
Satellite image of Malta. The geography of Malta is dominated by water. Malta is an archipelago of coralline limestone, located in the Mediterranean Sea, approximately 93 kilometres south of Sicily, Italy, and nearly 300 km north (Libya) and northeast (Tunisia) of Africa. Only the three largest islands – Malta, Gozo and Comino – are inhabited. Other (uninhabited) islands are: Cominotto, Filfla and the St.Paul's Islands. The country is approximately 316 km 2 (122 sq mi) in area.
It is basically a group of islands located in the Mediterranean Sea. The capital city of Malta is Valletta. The latitude and longitude of Valletta, the capital city of Malta country is 35º 54' N, 14 º 31' E. Malta is 6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time. The latitude and longitude of Malta includes 316 sq km of total land. The latitude and longitude of Malta includes a landscape which is mostly low in height
Although Malta is situated in Europe, it is located farther south than African Tunis, capital of Tunisia, Algiers, capital of Algeria, Tangier in Morocco and also Aleppo in Syria, and Mosul in Iraq in the Middle East. Only the three largest islands – Malta, Gozo and Comino – are inhabited. Other (uninhabited) islands are: Cominotto, Filfla and the St.Paul's Islands. The country is approximately 316 km 2 (122 sq mi) in area.
Image: © Briangotts. Satellite view is showing Valletta, the capital city of Malta. Valletta is located in the central-eastern portion of the island of Malta at the Mediterranean coast. The city is colloquially known as Il-Belt (The City) in Maltese and is the island's principal cultural center. 
Welcome to the Valletta google satellite map! This place is situated in Malta, its geographical coordinates are 35° 53' 59 North, 14° 30' 53. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Valletta. See Valletta photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Valletta in Malta.
Longitude: 14°30.8832′ E. All coordinates are given in the WGS 84 coordinate reference system. WGS 84 is the latest revision of the World Geodetic System, which is used in mapping and navigation, including GPS satellite navigation system (the Global Positioning System). Geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) define a position on the Earth's surface. Coordinates are angular units. The canonical form of latitude and longitude representation uses degrees (°), minutes (′), and seconds (″). GPS systems widely use coordinates in degrees and decimal minutes, or in decimal degrees