Chemosynthesis. Most life on Earth is dependent upon photosynthesis, the process by which plants make energy from sunlight. However, at hydrothermal vents in the deep ocean a unique ecosystem has evolved in the absense of sunlight, and its source of energy is completely different: chemosynthesis. Chemosynthesis is the process by which certain microbes create energy by mediating chemical reactions. So the animals that live around hydrothermal vents make their living from the chemicals coming out of the seafloor in the vent fluids!
chemosynthesis. chemosynthesis, process in which carbohydrates are manufactured from carbon dioxide and water using chemical nutrients as the energy source, rather than the sunlight used for energy in photosynthesis. Most life on earth is fueled directly or indirectly by sunlight. 
Chemosynthesis is a biological process that uses inorganic compounds (rather than sunlight as in photosynthesis) as the energy source to convert carbon compounds and nutrients … into organic matter. 
Photosynthesis and chemosynthesis are both processes by which organisms produce food; photosynthesis is powered by sunlight while chemosynthesis runs on chemical energy. In most cases, primary food production occurs in a process called photosynthesis, which is powered by sunlight. In a few environments, primary production happens though a process called chemosynthesis, which runs on chemical energy. Together, photosynthesis and chemosynthesis fuel all life on Earth.
Plants capture energy from the sun through a process called photosynthesis; this process supports nearly all life on earth. But photosynthesis is not the only method that living organisms use to create energy. Some microorganisms derive energy from chemical reactions that don&#039;t require light and use this energy to assemble organic molecules through a process called chemosynthesis. Once it&#039;s produced ATP, the bacterium can use the energy it&#039;s stored in ATP to turn inorganic compounds like CO2 and hydrogen sulfide into organic compounds like glucose. This final series of reactions i
Many microorganisms in dark regions of the oceans also use chemosynthesis to produce biomass from single carbon molecules. Large populations of animals can be supported by chemosynthetic secondary production at hydrothermal vents, methane clathrates, cold seeps, whale falls, and isolated cave water. It has been hypothesized that chemosynthesis may support life below the surface of Mars, Jupiter's moon Europa, and other planets.
Answers. Best Answer: Chemosynthesis is a process certain organisms use to obtain energy for the production of food, akin to photosynthesis, but without the use of sunlight. The energy comes from the oxidization of inorganic chemicals that the organisms find in their environment. Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: Chemosynthesis is a process certain organisms use to obtain energy for the production of food, akin to photosynthesis, but without the use of sunlight.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Chemosynthesis is a process certain organisms use to obtain energy for the production of food, akin to photosynthesis, but without the use of sunlight. The energy comes from the oxidization of inorganic chemicals that the organisms find in their environment. 
Photosynthesis occurs in plants and some bacteria, wherever there is sufficient sunlight – on land, in shallow water, even inside and below clear ice. Chemosynthesis is the use of energy released by inorganic chemical reactions to produce food. Chemosynthesis is at the heart of deep-sea communities, sustaining life in absolute darkness, where sunlight does not penetrate. Other bacteria make organic matter by reducing sulfide or oxidizing methane. In most cases, primary food production occurs in a process called photosynthesis, which is powered by sunlight. In a few environments, primary production happens though a process called chemosynthesis, which runs on chemical energy. Together, photosynthesis and chemosynthesis fuel all life on Earth.