Whereas the interneurons all lie within the CNS, portions of the afferent and efferent neurons project out of the CNS and constitute the nerves of the PNS. The cell bodies of afferent neurons reside in discrete structures called ganglia located near the CNS. Thus, the cell bodies of the afferent spinal nerves are located in dorsal root ganglia, present on either side of the spinal cord. The sensory impulse that is generated here travels along afferent fibers to cell bodies located in a dorsal root ganglion and from there to the spinal cord. Within the spinal cord, the afferent fibers synapse on the cell bodies of efferent neurons, whose long axons extend to innervate muscles in the leg.
Conventionally, a cluster of nerve cell bodies in the brain or spinal cord is called a ‘ nucleus ’ but a cluster of nerve cell bodies in the periphery is called a ‘ ganglion ’. However, there are a few exceptions to this rule, e.g., in the forebrain there are collections of grey matter called the ‘ basal ganglia ’. The cell bodies of neurones that give rise to nerves in the PNS do not lie within the nerves themselves but lie centrally within the brain and spinal cord or peripherally in the ganglia. The cranial nerves link the brain with the sense organs and muscles of the head and neck.
These axons originate at the cell bodies in the spinal cord and pass through the ventral root, exclusively, before entering the mixed nerve. The cell bodies of the pseudounipolar sensory neurons located in the dorsal root ganglion are conspicuous spherical structures. Through the dorsal root, pseudounipolar sensory axons continue, exclusively, from the nerve, to the spinal cord, entering the spinal cord along the cord's dorsolateral surface. The dorsal root ganglion contains the cell bodies of these pseudounipolar sensory neurons.
In the central nervous system, the analogous structures are known as tracts. Neurons are sometimes called nerve cells, though this term is potentially misleading since many neurons do not form nerves, and nerves also include non-neuronal Schwann cells that coat the axons in myelin. Each nerve is a cordlike structure that contains many axons. Within a nerve, each axon is surrounded by a layer of connective tissue called the endoneurium. The axons are bundled together into groups called fascicles, and each fascicle is wrapped in a layer of connective tissue called the perineurium.
It consists of nerves joined to the brain and spinal cord (twelve pairs of cranial nerves and thirty one pairs of spinal nerves), their ramifications within the body, nerve endings, and groups of peripherally located nerve cells bodies that are aggregated in structures called ganglia. The cell bodies of neurones that give rise to nerves in the PNS do not lie within the nerves themselves but lie centrally within the brain and spinal cord or peripherally in the ganglia. The cranial nerves link the brain with the sense organs and muscles of the head and neck.
The Ganglia of the Spinal Nerves-The Dorsal Root Ganglia. Each of the spinal nerves is equipped with a spinal ganglion, commonly called a dorsal root ganglion. The dorsal root ganglion is a swelling found along the dorsal root of the nerve. The dorsal root is one of two nerve roots associated with each spinal nerve. Through the dorsal root, pseudounipolar sensory axons continue, exclusively, from the nerve, to the spinal cord, entering the spinal cord along the cord's dorsolateral surface. The dorsal root ganglion contains the cell bodies of these pseudounipolar sensory neurons.
The spinal ganglia or dorsal root ganglia contain the cell bodies of sensory neurons entering the cord at that region. nerve-a group of fibers (axons) outside the CNS. The spinal nerves contain the fibers of the sensory and motor neurons. A nerve does not contain cell bodies. They are located in the ganglion (sensory) or in the gray matter (motor). tract-a group of fibers inside the CNS. The spinal tracts carry information up or down the spinal cord, to or from the brain. In the spinal cord the synapses between sensory and motor and interneurons occurs in the gray matter. The cell bodies of the interneurons and motor neurons also are found in the gray matter. white matter-an area of myelinated fiber tracts. Myelination in the CNS differs from that in nerves.
2. the upper of two ganglia of the vagus nerve just as it passes through the jugular foramen. Called also jugular ganglion. sympathetic ganglia aggregations of cell bodies of adrenergic neurons of the sympathetic nervous system; these ganglia are arranged in chainlike fashion on either side of the spinal cord. 2. [pl.] celiac ganglia. sensory ganglion any of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system that transmit sensory impulses; also, the collective masses of nerve cell bodies in the brain subserving sensory functions. simple ganglion a cystic tumor in a tendon sheath. sphenopalatine ganglion pterygopalatine ganglion.