Angela has taught college Microbiology and has a doctoral degree in Microbiology. Bacteria in anaerobic environments can breakdown organic compounds using fermentation. If you have ever eaten a fermented food, such as bread, yogurt or cheese, you have tasted the products of fermentation. Now, learn the details of this process. 
Industrial processes using fermentation. Fermentation by bacteria, yeast and mold is key to the production of fermented foods. Fermenting yeast produces the alcohol in beer and wine. In fact, the smell of fresh baked bread and rising dough can be attributed to alcohol produced from yeast. Dairy Fermentation. Milk is an excellent food source for humans and bacteria alike. It is full of vitamins, fats, minerals, nutrients and carbohydrates. It is rich in the protein casein which gives milk its characteristic white color.
Fermentation in progress: Bubbles of CO2 form a froth on top of the fermentation mixture. Overview of ethanol fermentation. One glucose molecule breaks down into two pyruvate molecules (1). The energy from this exothermic reaction is used to bind inorganic phosphates to ATP and convert NAD+ to NADH. Fermentation takes place in the lack of oxygen (when the electron transport chain is unusable) and becomes the cell’s primary means of ATP (energy) production. It turns NADH and pyruvate produced in the glycolysis step into NAD+ and various small molecules depending on the type of fermentation (see examples below).
Here's a look at the chemical process that occurs during fermentation. Answer: Fermentation is a metabolic process in which an organism converts a carbohydrate, such as starch or a sugar, into an alcohol or an acid. For example, yeast perform fermentation to obtain energy by converting sugar into alcohol. Bacteria perform fermentation, converting carbohydrates into lactic acid. History of Fermentation. Fermentation is a natural process. People applied fermentation to make products such as wine, mead, cheese and beer long before the biochemical process was understood.
It occurs in yeast and bacteria, but also in oxygen-starved muscle cells, as in the case of lactic acid fermentation. Fermentation is also used more broadly to refer to the bulk growth of microorganisms on a growth medium, often with the goal of producing a specific chemical product. Fermentation takes place in the lack of oxygen (when the electron transport chain is unusable) and becomes the cell’s primary means of ATP (energy) production. It turns NADH and pyruvate produced in the glycolysis step into NAD+ and various small molecules depending on the type of fermentation (see examples below).
The traditional fermented food cottage cheese is an excellent source of protein, calcium, and to a lesser degree, beneficial bacteria. Look for low-salt products. 
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice. Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria, which turn milk sugars into lactic acid, then the addition of rennet completes the curdling. (See Cheese and kashrut .) As cheese is a dairy food, under kosher rules it cannot be eaten in the same meal with any meat. Rennet derived from animal slaughter, and thus cheese made with animal-derived rennet, is not vegetarian.
Lets get technical for just a sec (and then we can go back to discussing food). Fermentation (the process of fermenting something) is basically taking a sugar (carbohydrate) and turning it into an acid or alcohol. This is done using fungus (yeast) or bacteria (but good ones not the ones that make you sick). Fermentation using yeast makes some of our favourite products including bread and alcohol. Blue cheese goes through this process and then a fungus (the mould Penicillium) is added to the cheese. This mould is what provides the distinctive blue-green or blue-grey lines in the cheese. Other fabulous foods made by fermentation includes chocolate, coffee, tea, soy sauce and vinegar.
Fermentation is a process in which food is exposed to bacteria and yeasts, either via inoculation or naturally through the air. Beneficial microorganisms beat out the kind that can kill you, and eat up the carbohydrates in the food. The results are interesting flavors, textures, and smells. 
Kombucha is a fizzy drink made from sweetened black tea, fermented with yeast and bacteria and served cold. The yeast turns sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide, and bacteria called acetobacter, which are very common in the environment, convert the alcohol into acetic acid, giving it a sour taste. 