Hamsters live for 1-3 years and sometimes longer with an average lifespan of about 2 years. Evolution Wild Hamsters are still found in China, Eastern Europe, North Africa, the Middle East and Siberia. They are rodents classified in the Family Cricetidae. 
Regular hamsters (big hamsters like teddies) have an expected lifespan of 3 – 5 years. By Tb240904 (Own work) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons. Dwarf hamsters live up to 3 years. Russians tend to live only about 2, while Siberians and “fake” dwarf hamsters (Chinese, Taiwanese, etc…) live about 3. Roborovski dwarf hamsters life spans are more volatile and live anywhere from 1 to 3 years. All of the above is assuming the hamster lives in good condition. Summary. Hamsters live 3-5 years while dwarf hamsters live 2-3 years and robo hamsters live 1 – 3 years. This is assuming hamsters receive good care. Bad care often leads to hamsters only living a few months.
The big question here is that how long can these creatures live? A lifespan of any living creature depends on its variations. A dwarf hamster can live for about 1 years up to 3 years when they are domestically taken care of, but in the wild, they can survive for about 5 years. You can help them live longer by simply giving them nutritious foods. Make an environment similar to what they have in the wild can be a great idea.
Many different factors affect hamster life span and how long your own pet hamster lives will depend on these factors. That said, it is possible to give a rough idea of how long your hamster is likely to live, based on the average hamster life span. On average, a hamster will live for around 2 to 2.5 years. Of course, this is just an average. Some hamsters will live for this amount of time, some hamsters will live for longer, and some hamsters will, unfortunately, have shorter lives. 
How long do hamsters live? Many factors would lengthen or shorten a hamster's lifespan such as genetics, diet, diseases, stress, and more. Usually a hamster doesn't live that long. Some kept in great shape can live up to 5 years. 
Lifespan of a Teddy Bear Hamster. The average lifespan for a teddy bear hamster is two to three years. It is possible, but rare, for these animals to live as long as five years. Teddy bear hamsters are typically weaned from their mothers when they are between 3 weeks and 4 weeks old. These hamsters reach adulthood when they are about 4 months old.
They usually can live from about 1.5 years to 3.5 years (although it depends on species). http://www.hamsterific.com/SpeciesTable.... Here's some examples of different dwarf breeds if you're still curious (it's not a syrian if it's a dwarf though) http://goat168.tripod.com/someverygoodha... Syrian hamsters have a life span of about 2 years. Russian Dwarf Hamster The Dwarf Campbells Russian Hamster originates from Central Asia, Northern Russia, Mongolia and North China where it lives in sand dunes. It has been kept in the UK since 1963 and was introduced to the pet market in the UK in the 1970s.