Jax is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#65298 out of 150436, Top 43%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Jax for boys. Jax was first listed in 2005 and reached its peak position of #209 in the U.S. in 2014. Jax /jax/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Old English derivation, and the name Jax means son of Jack. Jax is an alternate spelling of Jackson (Old English): American President Andrew Jackson. Compare surname Jex.
Jax's origin and use are both in the English language. Jax is a variant form of the English and Dutch name Jack in the English language. Jax is also a variant form of the English name Jackson. The names Jac, Jacks, Jacs, and Jaks are variant forms of Jax. Jax is a fairly popular baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of very modest use only.
Meaning of Jax. English name. In English, the name Jax means-God has been gracious; has shown favor. Based on John or Jacques.. Other origins for the name Jax include-English, American, Spanish.The name Jax is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-God has been gracious; has shown favor. Based on John or Jacques.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Jax is a baby boy name. The name Jax comes from the Spanish origin. In Spanish The meaning of the name Jax is: Masculine form of the Greek name Hyacinth 'alas.'. Similar Names: 1  Max (Scottish).
Meaning of Jax. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Jax means-Masculine form of the Greek name Hyacinth alas... Other origins for the name Jax include-Spanish, American, English.The name Jax is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-Masculine form of the Greek name Hyacinth alas.. Origin-Spanish.
English Meaning: The name Jax is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jax is: God has been gracious; has shown favor. Based on John or Jacques. Spanish Meaning: The name Jax is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Jax is: Greek name Hyacinth 'alas. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independenc
The first thing you should know if you are considering Jax for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Jax is a boy name. The name Jax is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Jax is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Jax. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 209 in baby name popularity for boys with 1836 occurrences. It ranked 9734 in popular baby names for girls with 11 occurrences. 