[ syll. do-ria-na, dor-i- ana ] The baby girl name Doriana is pronounced as D AO Riy AE NAH †. Doriana is used mostly in the Italian language and its language of origin is Old Greek. Doriana is a derivative of the English name Dorian. Doriana is also a derivative (Italian) of the English name Dorothy. Doriana is not frequently used as a baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Out of the family of girl names directly linked to Doriana, Dorothy was the most widely used in 2012.
Dorian /do-ri-an/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Dorian) is pronounced DOR-ee-en. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Dorian is descendant of Dorus; from Doris. Place name: Doris is an area in Greece. Literary: in Oscar Wilde's novel The Picture of Dorian Gray, Dorian was granted the wish that he would retain perpetual youth and beauty. A portrait of him changed to show the ravages of time and eventually caused his death.
Doriana is also a derivative of the English, German, and Greek name Doris. Doriana is also a derivative (Italian) of the English name Dorothy. Doriana is not frequently used as a baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Out of the family of girl names directly linked to Doriana, Dorothy was the most widely used in 2012.
Doriana /do-ri-ana/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name. Doriana's root is Greek, and the meaning of the name Doriana is from Doris; gift. Doriana is an alternate spelling of Doria (Greek). Place name: an area in Greece. Compare surname Dorin. 
(2014 Birth Statistics). Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of the boy name Dorian and affiliated names. Popular varying forms of Dorian (#535 a year ago) listed in the Top 1000 are Darrien, Davian (#753 a year ago) and Isidore. Place name: Doris is an area in Greece. Literary: in Oscar Wilde's novel The Picture of Dorian Gray, Dorian was granted the wish that he would retain perpetual youth and beauty. A portrait of him changed to show the ravages of time and eventually caused his death.
Notes: First used as a name by Oscar Wilde for the 1891 novel The Portrait of Dorian Gray. 