pelvic colon sigmoid c. right colon the proximal portion of the large intestine, developed embryonically from the terminal portion of the midgut and functioning in absorption of ingested material. sigmoid colon that portion of the left colon situated in the pelvis and extending from the descending colon to the rectum. spastic colon irritable bowel syndrome. transverse colon the portion of the large intestine passing transversely across the upper part of the abdomen, between the right and left colic flexures.
Medical Definition of SIGMOID COLON. : the contracted and crooked part of the colon immediately above the rectum—called also pelvic colon, sigmoid flexure. Definition of SIGMOID COLON. : the contracted and crooked part of the colon immediately above the rectum —called also sigmoid flexure. ADVERTISEMENT.
sigmoid colon. Definitions: 1. the part of the colon describing an S-shaped curve between the pelvic brim and the third sacral segment; it is continuous with the rectum. Synonyms: colon sigmoideum, colon pelvinum, flexura sigmoidea, sigmoid flexure. The definition information for sigmoid colon is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
Colon polyp: A benign tumor of the large intestine. Benign polyps do not invade nearby tissue or spread to other parts of the body. Benign polyps can easily be removed during colonoscopy and are not life threatening. If benign polyps are not removed from the large intestine, they can become malignant (cancerous) over time. Most cancers of the large intestine are believed to have developed from polyps.
colon-Computer Definition. In programming, the colon (:) is used to separate parts of an address. For example, the first part of 1AAA:1FFF might be a segment address and the second part the actual offset within the segment. 1 An example of a colon is the: in 5:30 a.m. 2  An example of a colon is a part of the large intestine from the cecum to the rectum that can get diseased with cancer. 3  An example of a colon is a type of section in a Greek poem.
Medical Definition of COLON. : the part of the large intestine that extends from the cecum to the rectum. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of colon. plural cola: a rhythmical unit of an utterance; specifically in Greek or Latin verse: a system or series of from two to not more than six feet having a principal accent and forming part of a line. 2.
Definitions: 1. The large intestine extending from the cecum to the rectum. The definition information for colon is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students
irritable colon (nervous colon) (spastic colon) terms formerly used for irritable bowel syndrome. (kō'lon), [TA] In medical dictation, the phrase colon mark is customarily used to identify the punctuation mark (:) when there is any possibility of confusion with the anatomic word. sigmoid colon that portion of the left colon situated in the pelvis and extending from the descending colon to the rectum. spastic colon irritable bowel syndrome. transverse colon the portion of the large intestine passing transversely across the upper part of the abdomen, between the right and left colic flexures.
1 An example of a colon is a part of the large intestine from the cecum to the rectum that can get diseased with cancer. 2  An example of a colon is a type of section in a Greek poem. 1 An example of a colon is the: in 5:30 a.m. 2  An example of a colon is a part of the large intestine from the cecum to the rectum that can get diseased with cancer. 3
colon. the part of the large intestine extending from the cecum to the rectum. It has the same basic design in all species. There is an ascending colon which begins at the cecum, passes forward to the cranial part of the abdominal cavity then crosses to the left side as the transverse colon. sigmoid colon that portion of the left colon situated in the pelvis and extending from the descending colon to the rectum. spastic colon irritable bowel syndrome. transverse colon the portion of the large intestine passing transversely across the upper part of the abdomen, between the right and left colic flexures.