[ 3 syll. mai-la, ma-ila ] The baby girl name Maila is pronounced Maa-iy-Raa- †. Maila is of English origin and it is also used largely in the English language. Maila is a variation of Myra (English). Maila is irregularly used as a baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000. In 2012, within the family of girl names directly linked to Maila, Myra was the most widely used.
Comments and insights on the name Maila: | Edit. Not many people know how to say the name Maila. It is said how it is spelled. Maila.in other words. Mayla (may-la). Maila. There is not many people with the name Maila. Nor has many people even heard of the name Maila.
It depends on the person. Some say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee because of other walkers, like the AT-ST, AT-PT and AT-AA. Others say At-At (@-@) because it's more efficient to use just tw … o syllables rather than four syllables. I use to say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee Walker, but now I just just say At-At Walker for the last 10-12 years. Here's a guide, if you want to say All Terrain Armored Transport, say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee. But if you want to say AT-AT Walker, just say At-At-Walk-Er. The usual pronunciation of I (the pronoun or English letter) is the same as the word (eye). However, the pronoun I is sometimes extended as (aye), a long I with a very sof … t long E on the end, similiar to (Ieeeee). Do not drag it out, but put the E sound softly on the end.
How popular is Malia? Malia is a very popular first name for females (#1921 out of 4276, Top 45%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#25591 out of 150436, Top 17%). The most trendy birth names in this list are Mariam (#568) , Mara (#695) , Amelia (#15) , Mariah (#136) and Malia (#345) , and there is also a rebound in baby name popularity for Amelia and Mariah. Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Malia and corresponding names
Malia /ma-lia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ma-LEE-ah. It is of Hawaiian origin, and the meaning of Malia is perhaps, probably. Variant of Mary. The most trendy birth names in this list are Mariam (#568) , Mara (#695) , Amelia (#15) , Mariah (#136) and Malia (#345) , and there is also a rebound in baby name popularity for Amelia and Mariah. Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Malia and corresponding names
Hawaiian Meaning: The name Malia is a Hawaiian baby name. In Hawaiian the meaning of the name Malia is: Spanish Meaning: The name Malia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Malia is: American Meaning: The name Malia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Malia is: Teutonic Meaning: The name Malia is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Malia is: Hard working.
Regarded the home of Santa Clause, Finland offers the comfort of Finnish sauna, the taste of Finlandia vodka, technology of Nokia, the world design of Helsinki, and the naming tradition as poetic as the midnight sun! 
[ syll. may-la, ma-yla ] The baby girl name Mayla is pronounced as M EY-LAH †. Mayla's language of origin is Sanskrit and it is predominantly used in the English language. Mayla is a variant of Mela (English and Polish). Baby names that sound like Mayla include Mayleigh, Mahila (English), Mahla, Mahlah, Mahlia (Hawaiian), Mailsee, Mailsey, Mailsi, Mailsie, Mailsy, Malak (Arabic), Malake, Malcah, Malcsi (Hungarian), Malha, Malhah, Malik, Malka (Hebrew and Indian), Malkah (Hebrew), and Malki.