The circumstances of discovery were first described in J.W. Shaw, Excavations at Kommos (Crete) during 1979, Hesperia 49 (1980) 229-37, 245-48 where there is also a preliminary suggestion of a Phoenician connection. A more complete public presentation was made in San Antonio, Texas, in December of 1986, during the annual AIA/APA convention (AJA 91 [1987] 297).
The Phoenicians were the first state-level society to make extensive use of alphabets. The Phoenician alphabet is generally held to be the ancestor of almost all modern alphabets. They spoke Phoenician, a Semitic language of the Canaanite subgroup, closely related to Hebrew. The Phoenicians were famous metalworkers, and by the end of the 8th century BC, Greek city-states were sending out envoys to the Levant (the eastern Mediterranean) for metal goods. The height of Phoenician trade was around the 7th and 8th centuries.
The Phoenicians arrived by ship and blended with the Cretans over a period of time, settling themselves, planting vineyards, olive groves and villas-essentially the Minoans were the children of them both, with many elements drawn from old Cretan society, but taking on the majority of Phoenician principles and rules. Questions on Minoans and Phoenicians contact with each other. Minoans rise to prominence seems to come around the of 2000 BC roughly. The Phoenician site of Byblos has been settled since 6000 BC, while the city of Tyre has been in use since 2700 BC.
Knossos Palace, Crete It is widely known that the beautiful Minoan palace society thrived on the large island of Crete in the Aegean Sea from roughly 2000 BC to 1500 BC. These people were known for their grand palaces, fabulous arts, written records, laws and sea trade. Several excellent new discoveries now make it clear who the Minoans were, and how they developed their glittering society. You can read the entire account in the academic paper which was presented at California State University, Long Beach by Sanford Holst on June 24, 2006.
59 This evidence not only conﬁrms that Phoenicians were living in Iron Age Crete, but also suggests that they were integrated into the local societies. On the other hand, it is questionable whether this was the case in other Aegean sites, including Lefkandi (Lemos 2003). 
Phoenicia (UK /fɨˈnɪʃə/ or US /fəˈniːʃə/ ; from the Greek: φοινίκη, Phoinikē; Phoiníkē: فينيقية ‎, فينيقيه) fīnīqīyah was an Ancient semitic thalassocratic civilization situated on the, western coastal part of The Fertile crescent and centered on the coastline of Modern syria And. lebanon The Phoenicians were famous metalworkers, and by the end of the 8th century BC, Greek city-states were sending out envoys to the Levant (the eastern Mediterranean) for metal goods. The height of Phoenician trade was around the 7th and 8th centuries.
Long after Phoenician culture flourished, or Phoenicia existed as a political entity, Hellenized natives of the region where Canaanites still lived were referred to as Syro-Phoenicians, as in the Gospel of Mark 7:26: The woman was a Greek, a Syro-phoenician by birth. The Phoenicians were famous metalworkers, and by the end of the 8th century BC, Greek city-states were sending out envoys to the Levant (the eastern Mediterranean) for metal goods. The height of Phoenician trade was around the 7th and 8th centuries.
The island city of Tyre and the city of Sidon were the most powerful states in Phoenicia with Gebal/ Byblos and Baalbek as the most important spiritual/religious centers. Phoenician city-states began to take form c. 3200 BCE and were firmly established by c. 2750 BCE. The city-states of Phoenicia flourished through maritime trade between c. 1500-322 BCE when the major cities were conquered by Alexander the Great and, after his death, the region became a battleground in the fight between his generals for succession and empire.
Minoans were an island Country and If I am not mistaken it has been shown that there was evidence of deforestation on ancient Crete. This leads me to believe the Phoenicians would have been a reasonable trade partner due to their natural resources of Cedar trees. Questions on Minoans and Phoenicians contact with each other. Minoans rise to prominence seems to come around the of 2000 BC roughly. The Phoenician site of Byblos has been settled since 6000 BC, while the city of Tyre has been in use since 2700 BC.
Much later, in the 6th century BC, Hecataeus of Miletus writes that Phoenicia was formerly called χνα (Latinized: khna), a name Philo of Byblos later adopted into his mythology as his eponym for the Phoenicians: Khna who was afterwards called Phoinix. The Phoenicians were famous metalworkers, and by the end of the 8th century BC, Greek city-states were sending out envoys to the Levant (the eastern Mediterranean) for metal goods. The height of Phoenician trade was around the 7th and 8th centuries.