Changes in your cat's environment, such as rearranging his living space or moving to a new home, can add stress and induce marking. Occasionally, the spraying cat may target the clothing or bedding of a person or visitor in the house. The presence of stray cats in your yard may cause your cat to mark near windows and doors as a way to identify that this is his territory. New pets in the household, or a conflict between existing pets in the same household, may also make pets feel a need to mark their territories.
Feline Spraying Cat Spraying Urine Reasons why cats spray urine, prevention, cleaning and treatment. What is Feline Spraying. Feline Spraying (also called marking) is a cat depositing a small amount of urine on vertical surfaces, such as furniture, doorways and walls. The spraying cat may be seen to back into the area, the tail may quiver, and with little or no crouching the cat sprays the urine. Spraying is marking behavior, not a litter box problem. The cat does not need to pee, he is leaving a message for other cats. Un-neutered male cats will usually start urine spraying behavior once they reach sexual maturity. 
The spraying of urine on drapes, furniture, and other surfaces is your cat's way of identifying territory or covering the scent of other cats. While this behavior is normal, it can and should be prevented to keep your home odor free. Do not confuse urine spraying with eliminating outside of the litter box. If your cat urinates outside of her litter box, leaving a puddle or a large carpet stain, you should call your veterinarian immediately. She may have a urinary tract infection, cystitis that needs to be treated as soon as possible. 1 Have your cat spayed/neutered by the time she is six months old. 2  In addition to the many other good reasons to have your cat neutered, more than 90% of cats will not start spraying if they are fixed before the behavior begins. 3  Restrict her view of the outdoors.
To stop the behavior, you must understand the reasons cats spray. Spraying is a way to communicate with other cats, and knowing what your cat is trying to communicate is key to fixing the problem. 1  Cats are territorial and like to claim certain things and areas. 1 Urine marking is your cat's way of letting other cats know of his presence and which portions of the house belong to him. 2  If you live in a multiple cat household, your cat is likely claiming territory. 3  Spraying is also a mating ritual for cats.
1 Cats are territorial and like to claim certain things and areas. 2  Urine marking is your cat's way of letting other cats know of his presence and which portions of the house belong to him. 3  If you live in a multiple cat household, your cat is likely claiming territory. 4  Spraying is also a mating ritual for cats. 1 Urine marking is your cat's way of letting other cats know of his presence and which portions of the house belong to him. 2  If you live in a multiple cat household, your cat is likely claiming territory. 3  Spraying is also a mating ritual for cats.
Q. My cat has been urine marking the side of my couch, near the window. A. First, it’s important to determine if your cat is truly spraying, or whether he is urinating. With urine spraying, cats tend to stand upright and eliminate a small amount on vertical surfaces. Cats that are urinating usually squat and eliminate larger amounts on horizontal surfaces. The presence of stray cats in your yard may cause your cat to mark near windows and doors as a way to identify that this is his territory. New pets in the household, or a conflict between existing pets in the same household, may also make pets feel a need to mark their territories.
All these things can cause a cat to spray or urine mark. Many people don't realize it, but both male and female cats can urine mark. Again, and I cannot emphasize this enough, the primary cause of spraying is your cat's insecurity in his territory. Help your cat increase his confidence and feeling of security. How to Stop a Cat from Spraying Indoors. Cat spraying and urine marking are social, sexual and territorial behaviors. It's also how cats express extreme emotions such as frustration. Your cat is trying to tell you sometime. The primary cause of the
Neuter your cat. If your cat is not fixed, this may be what's causing the spraying as the behavior is used to advertise to mates. Spraying is a sign of sexual maturity in cats, and having your cat fixed can stop the behavior. 1  If possible, have your cat neutered before he is 6 months old. 1 Urine marking is your cat's way of letting other cats know of his presence and which portions of the house belong to him. 2  If you live in a multiple cat household, your cat is likely claiming territory. 3  Spraying is also a mating ritual for cats.