Pupillary reflex. In medicine, there are two pupillary reflexes 1  -. The pupillary light reflex is the reduction of pupil size in response to light. 2  The pupillary accommodation reflex is the reduction of pupil size in response to an object coming close to the eye. The optic nerve is responsible for the afferent limb of the pupillary reflex, or in other words, senses the incoming light. The oculomotor nerve is responsible for the efferent limb of the pupillary reflex; in other words, it drives the muscles that constrict the pupil.
Pupillary reflex refers to one of the reflexes associated with pupillary function. Types include: 1  Pupillary light reflex. 
The pupillary light reflex (PLR) is a reflex that controls the diameter of the pupil, in response to the intensity (luminance) of light that falls on the retinal ganglion cells of the eye, thereby assisting in adaptation to various levels of lightness/darkness. The pupillary reflex pathway begins with the photosensitive retinal ganglion cells, which convey information to the optic nerve (via the optic disc). The optic nerve connects to the pretectal nucleus of the upper midbrain, bypassing the lateral geniculate nucleus and the primary visual cortex.
knee reflex knee jerk. light reflex. 1. constriction of the pupil when a light is shone into the same (direct light reflex) or the opposite eye (indirect or consensual light reflex). 2. a luminous image reflected when light strikes the normal tympanic membrane. lung r's Hering-Breuer reflexes. 1. contraction of the pupil on exposure of the retina to light. 2. any reflex involving the iris, resulting in change in the size of the pupil, occurring in response to various stimuli, e.g., change in illumination or point of fixation, sudden loud noise, or emotional stimulation.
The pupillary light reflex pathway has an afferent limb (CN II) and efferent limb (CN III). The ganglion cells of the retina project bilaterally to the pretectal nuclei. The pupillary reflex pathway begins with the photosensitive retinal ganglion cells, which convey information to the optic nerve (via the optic disc). The optic nerve connects to the pretectal nucleus of the upper midbrain, bypassing the lateral geniculate nucleus and the primary visual cortex.
Under normal conditions, the pupils of both eyes respond identically to a light stimulus, regardless of which eye is being stimulated. Light entering one eye produces a constriction of the pupil of that eye, the direct response, as well as a constriction of the pupil of the unstimulated eye, the consensual response. The pupillary reflex pathway begins with the photosensitive retinal ganglion cells, which convey information to the optic nerve (via the optic disc). The optic nerve connects to the pretectal nucleus of the upper midbrain, bypassing the lateral geniculate nucleus and the primary visual cortex.
A greater intensity of light causes the pupil to constrict (miosis/myosis) (allowing less light in), whereas a lower intensity of light causes the pupil to dilate (mydriasis, expansion) (allowing more light in). Thus, the pupillary light reflex regulates the intensity of light entering the eye. The pupillary reflex pathway begins with the photosensitive retinal ganglion cells, which convey information to the optic nerve (via the optic disc). The optic nerve connects to the pretectal nucleus of the upper midbrain, bypassing the lateral geniculate nucleus and the primary visual cortex.
Pupil Light Reflex. In an afferent pupillary defect there is a decreased direct response caused by decreased visual function in one eye. This can be demonstrated with the swinging flashlight test, in which the light is moved back and forth between the eyes every two to three seconds. The afferent pupillary defect becomes obvious when the flashlight is moved from the normal to the affected eye, and the affected pupil dilates in response to light.