Cooking Directions. Soak rice in water for 20 minutes. Heat half cup oil in a pan. Add sliced onion and fry until light brown. Then add all spice, meat, ginger garlic paste and roast well. Now add tomatoes, 1 ½ tsp salt, turmeric and red chili powder. Roast again. Then add 1 cup water, cover and cook until mutton become half tender. Then add potatoes and 1 cup water. Now cook potatoes and mutton till complete tender. Add soaked rice, remaining ½ tsp salt and 1 ½ cup water, cover and cook rice until cooked. Simmer on low heat for 15 minutes. Finally sprinkle whole green chili and chopped coriander leaves. Delicious Memoni Akni is ready to serve.
Acne, medically known as Acne Vulgaris, is a skin disease that involves the oil glands at the base of hair follicles. It commonly occurs during puberty when the sebaceous (oil) glands come to life-the glands are stimulated by male hormones produced by the adrenal glands of both males and females. Acne, medically known as Acne Vulgaris, is a skin disease that involves the oil glands at the base of hair follicles. In humans, pimples tend to appear on the face, back, chest, shoulders and neck.
Agni (Sanskrit: अग्नि Agni), pronounced  ăgˈnē , is a Hindu deity, one of the most important of the Vedic and the acceptor of sacrifices for onwards conveyance to other deities. The sacrifices made to Agni go to the deities because Agni is a messenger from and to the other gods. Agni is a deva, second only to Indra in the power and importance attributed to him in Vedic mythology, with 218 out of 1,028 hymns of the Rigveda dedicated to him. He is Indra 's twin, and therefore a son of Dyaus Pita and Prthivi.
If you don’t have any of these ingredients, you can usually find them in the ethnic isle at Superstore. My recommendation is to have all your ingredients and measuring instruments ready and it’ll make the preparation much quicker. Also, before you start, soak your rice in a bowl of water. Sometimes, I’ve had it happen that the rice and everything is cooked, but it still seems a little wet or not fluffy. If that happens heat the oven to 250 degrees, cover the pot of Akni in foil and let it bake for another 10-15 minutes and you should be good to go.
If you’ve never heard of Anki, it’s an aromatic and flavourful Indian rice dish (that is not spicy if you don’t want it to be.) It combines, rice, potatoes and chicken (or beef) with beautiful spices like cinnamon, cardamom, cumin and more to make an amazing taste that you’ll love. Sometimes, I’ve had it happen that the rice and everything is cooked, but it still seems a little wet or not fluffy. If that happens heat the oven to 250 degrees, cover the pot of Akni in foil and let it bake for another 10-15 minutes and you should be good to go.
4. Then you can add the cut up chicken breast, cut potatoes, minced ginger and garlic. Cook that for about 8-10 minutes on medium heat. (If it starts sticking to the bottom of the pot, add a 1/4 cup of water to it.). 5. Add 2 and 1/2 cups of water, salt and lemon juice. Bring it to a boil. Sometimes, I’ve had it happen that the rice and everything is cooked, but it still seems a little wet or not fluffy. If that happens heat the oven to 250 degrees, cover the pot of Akni in foil and let it bake for another 10-15 minutes and you should be good to go.
Akni is a spicy one-pot Indian rice wonder made with meat-either lamb, chicken or mutton with flavours resembling that of a breyani. 1  KNORR Rice Mate Mild Breyani Combines perfectly with prawns, in chicken curries or any dish that includes fruit, especially apricots. 
May 19, 2011 § 4 Comments. Akni is my favourite Indian rice dish. It’s so delicious that I was under the impression that its wonderful flavour was directly related to its level of difficulty. I could not have been more wrong. Dear Akni, I love that you only require one pot. I love that you only require 1 tablespoon of oil
Memoni Akni (Mutton with Rice) - People love to eat rice and look different taste in it. Chef Shireen is giving you a wonderful recipe that is prepared with ... 