Calcium hydroxide, traditionally called slaked lime, is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula Ca (OH) 2. It is a colorless crystal or white powder and is obtained when calcium oxide (called lime or quicklime) is mixed, or  slaked  with water. It has many names including hydrated lime, builders' lime, slack lime, cal, or pickling lime. Calcium hydroxide is used in many applications, including food preparation. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Calcium hydroxide, traditionally called slaked lime, hydrated lime, or pickling lime, is a chemical compound with the chemical formula Ca(OH)2. It is a colourless crystal or white powder, and is obtained when calcium oxide (called lime or quicklime) is mixed, or slaked with water. It can also be precipitated by mixing an aqueous solution of calcium chloride and an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The name of the natural mineral is portlandite
Hydrated lime is a type of dry powder made from limestone. It is created by adding water to quicklime in order to turn oxides into hydroxides. Combined with water and sand or cement, hydrated lime is most often used to make mortars and plasters. Its chemical name is calcium hydroxide, or Ca(OH) 2. When making hydrated lime, a manufacturer must first make quicklime.
Contact with hydrated lime can cause eye irritation. Combined with water and sand or cement, hydrated lime is most often used to make mortars and plasters. Type S and SA limes are commonly used in mortar mixes for construction. It is created by adding water to quicklime in order to turn oxides into hydroxides. Combined with water and sand or cement, hydrated lime is most often used to make mortars and plasters. Its chemical name is calcium hydroxide, or Ca(OH) 2. When making hydrated lime, a manufacturer must first make quicklime.
Calcium hydroxide, or hydrated lime, is already neutralized, so it will not undergo oxidation and can be used with water, for water ph control, lime slurry addition, lime slurry mixes, soil rehabilitation and more. Hydrated lime and quicklime are both calcium compounds. In its hydrated state, calcium is called calcium hydroxide, and in its pure state it is called calcium oxide, or quicklime. Calcium oxide has a heavy density (65lb/ft³) and is more reactive than hydrated lime.
The main differences between hydrated lime & quicklime are their reactivity & their chemical composition. Hydrated lime and quicklime are both calcium compounds. In its hydrated state, calcium is called calcium hydroxide, and in its pure state it is called calcium oxide, or quicklime. Calcium oxide has a heavy density (65lb/ft³) and is more reactive than hydrated lime. To simplify, hydrated lime is the result of adding water to powdered quicklime, putting it in a kiln or oven, and then pulverizing it with water. The resulting lime has a density of 35lb/ft³, and is called calcium hydroxide
Hydrated lime is applied at two-thirds of the rate of garden lime. Winter is the ideal time to add hydrated lime for annuals planted in spring, although you can add it two weeks before planting. You can apply it one or two days before planting if necessary, but the soil pH will not change for several weeks. Add 9 4/5 ounces of hydrated lime per square yard of loamy soil to raise the pH from 6 to 6.5. Add 15 2/3 ounces per square yard to 5.5 pH soil, 23 1/2 ounces to 5 pH soil and 29 1/2 ounces to 4.5 pH soil.
In the United States the most commonly used masonry lime is Type S hydrated lime which is intended to be added to Portland cement to improve plasticity, water retention and other qualities. The S in type S stands for special which distinguishes it from Type N hydrated lime where the N stands for normal. 
June 2002 FACT SHEET: HYDRATED LIME FOR MASONRY PURPOSES Hydrated Masons Lime Characteristics Type S (Special) hydrated lime is a fine, white, high purity product which has been speciallyhydrated for convenient, trouble-free use. Inparticular, Type S hydrated lime improves mortar bond to masonry units (brick, concrete blockand stone). Bond strength is important in design considerations in the prevention of cracking,water leakage, and efflorescence.