We hypothesized that game-based training wouldoffer a speciﬁc training stimulus to simulate the physiologicaldemands of elite standard competition. Subjects Fourteen elite women ﬁeld hockey players (mean 6 SD; age,23.3 6 3.2 years; maximal oxygen consumption, 53.5 6 4.3ml kg 21 min 21) participated in this study. Players covered 6.6 km (range: 3.4–9.5 km) over thecourse of the match. Midﬁelders spent more time and coveredgreater distances in high-intensity running (i.e., .5m s 21) thanstrikers and defenders.
The average distance per sprint is 10-20 meters and average duration is between 2-3 seconds (4). Although soccer-specific data is lacking, the maximum sprint-duration during an elite field hockey game is approximately 4 seconds. 
As a runner, football player (soccer) and Rubgy player it is pretty obvious that football players are in effect interval training! I used to run at least 6 mikles twice a week and 10 miles at weekends just to maintain fitness for rugby (which I played weekly for 20 years). Well, not exactly. A full-length soccer game is 90 minutes. If every player on the field was running or sprinting for an hour and a half, soccer would look more like hockey, with line changes every few minutes. Instead, players run in short bursts, using the time when the ball is on the other side of the field to recover
Depending on their style of game, players may run 3 to 5 miles during a five-set match, and in some cases even more. That's a lot of back-and-forth. And the winner is... Soccer: Long games, a massive field and a constantly moving ball add up to serious distance for soccer players. STATS puts the average at 7 miles per game depending on position, and as much as 9.5 miles for some players (not including goalies, of course). Basketball: NBA players run nowhere near the oft-cited five miles per game. According to STATS, the player who ran the farthest per game in 2012 was Luol Deng of the Chicago Bulls, at 2.72 miles on average.
However, there is a common myth that basketball players run up to 8km (5 miles) in a standard game. NBA stats from the 2012 season show that the highest average distance run per game was 4.3km (2.72 miles) by Luol Deng of the Chicago Bulls. In very competitive games the majority of players on court will reach distances of 4km (2.5 miles), however, to average more than this over the season is rare. American Football is the most interesting of all the sports regarding the average distance run during a typical game. The stat shown in the image at the top of 1.9km (1.2miles) is for a typical wide reciever.
Seriously? C'mon, cut it out. Most baseball players won't run 100 yards during the course of a game, unless you count the slow trot on and off the field between innings. The bases are only 90 feet apart, so even if you hit three homers in a game, that's only 1,080 feet. 
Well it depends on the person and the level of the game but on average a midfielder (halfback) in hockey would run about 8-10 km. Sources: Me being a hockey halfback for 4 y … ears and playing regional field hockey where the coach measured our average running distance. 2 people found this useful. 
Let's do the math! A football field is 105m long for a world cup and 75m wide. In order to run the 9500m (almost 6 miles) as reported above-a player would need to run the length of the field-call it 100m - 95 different times....in a game that lasts for 90 minutes. 
Tennis provides a significant jump down from field hockey. Despite the fact that tennis matches can last around 5 hours if they go to five sets, the average distance covered in tennis is much lower than football and hockey. American Football is the most interesting of all the sports regarding the average distance run during a typical game. The stat shown in the image at the top of 1.9km (1.2miles) is for a typical wide reciever.