A system comprised of lymphatic vessels, lymph nodes, associated organs made up of lymphoid tissues (e.g. spleen, thymus, etc .), and lymph. Supplement. The lymphatic system is a system that is comprised of lymph nodes, lymph vessels, lymphoid tissues, and lymph. The system primarily functions in the collection and returning of the fluid and proteins into the blood. The lymph nodes and associated organs of lymphoid tissues (e.g. spleen, thymus, bone marrow, etc.) are sites where lymphocytes are produced. For instance, T cells involved in cell-mediated immunity are produced in the bone marrow and mature mainly in the thymus. Synonym(s): 1  lymph system. 2  lymphoid system.
lymphatic system see lymphatic system. lymphoid system the lymphoid tissue of the body, collectively; it consists of primary (or central) lymphoid tissues, the bone marrow, and thymus, and secondary (or peripheral) tissues, the lymph nodes, spleen, and gut-associated lymphoid tissue (tonsils, Peyer's patches). 
The tissues and organs that produce, store, and carry white blood cells that fight infections and other diseases. This system includes the bone marrow, spleen, thymus, lymph nodes, and lymphatic vessels (a network of thin tubes that carry lymph and white blood cells). Lymphatic vessels branch, like blood vessels, into all the tissues of the body. Anatomy of the lymph system, showing the lymph vessels and lymph organs including lymph nodes, tonsils, thymus, spleen, and bone marrow. Lymph (clear fluid) and lymphocytes travel through the lymph vessels and into the lymph nodes where the lymphocytes destroy harmful substances.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries.
The lymphatic system consists of lymphatic organs, a conducting network of lymphatic vessels, and the circulating lymph. The thymus and the bone marrow constitute the primary lymphoid organs involved in the production and early clonal selection of lymphocyte tissues. The other main function is that of defense in the immune system. Lymph is very similar to blood plasma: it contains lymphocytes and other white blood cells. It also contains waste products and debris of cells together with bacteria and protein.
Noun. 1. lymphatic system-the interconnected system of spaces and vessels between body tissues and organs by which lymph circulates throughout the body. systema lymphaticum. A network of vessels, tissues, and organs in vertebrate animals that helps the body regulate fluid balance and fight against disease. The vessels of the lymphatic system drain excess fluid (called lymph) from the tissues and return it to the circulating blood. Lymphocytes circulate throughout the lymphatic system.
Lymphocytes are concentrated in the lymph nodes. The spleen and the thymus are also lymphoid organs of the immune system. The tonsils are lymphoid organs that are also associated with the digestive system. Lymphoid tissues contain lymphocytes, and also contain other types of cells for support. The other main function is that of defense in the immune system. Lymph is very similar to blood plasma: it contains lymphocytes and other white blood cells. It also contains waste products and debris of cells together with bacteria and protein.
• LYMPHATIC SYSTEM (noun). The noun LYMPHATIC SYSTEM has 1 sense: 1. the interconnected system of spaces and vessels between body tissues and organs by which lymph circulates throughout the body. Familiarity information: LYMPHATIC SYSTEM used as a noun is very rare. 
Lymphatic system: The tissues and organs, including the bone marrow, spleen, thymus, and lymph nodes, that produce and store cells that fight infection and disease. The channels that carry lymph are also part of this system. 