Lovaza is prescription medication, used along with a low-fat and low-cholesterol diet, to lower very high triglycerides (fats) in your blood. This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. Back to Top. Do not take Lovaza if you are allergic to any of its ingredients. Lovaza may cause serious side effects, including: 1  increases in the results of blood tests used to check your liver function (ALT and AST) and your bad cholesterol levels (LDL-C) cholesterol.
Subscribe to the Women's Health newsletter for the latest on disease prevention, fitness, sex, diet, anti-aging, and more from WebMD. By clicking Submit, I agree to the WebMD Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of WebMD subscriptions at any time. 
55 treatment with simvastatin, patients were randomized to either LOVAZA 4 g per day or placebo. 56 for an additional 8 weeks with simvastatin co-therapy. The median baseline triglyceride and. 57 LDL-C levels in these patients were 268 mg/dL and 89 mg/dL, respectively. 18 ethyl ester is 356.55. 19 LOVAZA capsules also contain the following inactive ingredients: 4 mg α-tocopherol (in a. 20 carrier of partially hydrogenated vegetable oils including soybean oil), and gelatin, glycerol, and. 21 purified water (components of the capsule shell).
Lovaza Uses. Lovaza is a Omega-3 acid ethyl ester which is a fat found in fish oil. In combination with proper diet and exercise, Lovaza can help reduce your risk of heart attacks and strokes as it is most commonly used to prevent fats from entering your blood. Lovaza Side Effects. Lovaza, like any other drug, comes with its collection of side effects that vary with each individual who uses it. If you experience any severe side effects, consult with your doctor or medical professional immediately.
Follow Lovaza to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. 
Lovaza is a prescription medication used to lower very high triglycerides (fats) in the blood. It is made from fish oils that work by lowering liver production of triglycerides. This medication comes in capsule form and is usually taken once or twice daily, with or without food. Take Lovaza capsules whole. Back to Top. Do not take Lovaza if you are allergic to any of its ingredients. Lovaza may cause serious side effects, including: 1  increases in the results of blood tests used to check your liver function (ALT and AST) and your bad cholesterol levels (LDL-C) cholesterol.
, and the molecular weight of DHA. 18 ethyl ester is 356.55. 19 LOVAZA capsules also contain the following inactive ingredients: 4 mg α-tocopherol (in a. 20 carrier of partially hydrogenated vegetable oils including soybean oil), and gelatin, glycerol, and. 21 purified water (components of the capsule shell).
Lovaza is a brand name prescription drug. The capsule sold by GlaxoSmithKline but developed by Reliant Pharmaceuticals, contains esterified fatty acid ethyl esters and is described in detail in U.S. Patent 5,656,667. Pronova BioPharma is the innovator company for the APIs in Lovaza/Omacor. It is synthesized from fish body oils, typically from oily fish such as mackerel and anchovy. It is approved by the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) to lower very high triglyceride levels. 
DRUG DESCRIPTION. LOVAZA, a lipid-regulating agent, is supplied as a liquid-filled gel capsule for oral administration. Each 1-gram capsule of LOVAZA contains at least 900 mg of the ethyl esters of omega-3 fatty acids sourced from fish oils. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  fever, chills, body aches, flu symptoms; 2  chest pain; or.