Periodically calculating your net worth -- the value of your assets minus your liabilities -- is the best way to measure and track your financial well-being. 
Whatever is left over is the liquidation value of the company and provides your bottom, or floor, value. The Ceiling: Times Revenue Method For a financial services business, the floor is likely to be small, as it is not a capital-intensive industry. The main value of the business lies in its client base. Ultimately, the value of a business is what someone else is willing to pay for it. You can define a range for the value of your company, however, that gives you an idea of what it would be worth to someone else. The Floor A floor is the lowest price that someone would pay for your business.
Your net worth can be an extremely useful tool in measuring your economic status and overall financial progress from year to year. Your net worth is essentially a grand total of all your assets minus your liabilities. In other words, your net worth is the figure you get when you add up everything you own from the value of your home to the cash in your bank account and then subtract from that the value of all of your debts which may include a mortgage, car or student loans, or even credit card balances.
Understanding how much it is worth, however, can not only help with your financial plan, but can also help to make decisions about whether or not to sell the practice. Ultimately, the value of a business is what someone else is willing to pay for it. You can define a range for the value of your company, however, that gives you an idea of what it would be worth to someone else. The Floor A floor is the lowest price that someone would pay for your business.
A319S Personal Net Worth Statement A personal net worth statement is a snapshot of an individual’s financial health, at one particular point in time. It is a summary of what is owned (assets), less what is owed to others (liabilities). The formula used is: assets-liabilities = net worth. 
In a nutshell, your net worth is really everything you own of significance (your assets) minus what you owe in debts (your liabilities). Assets include cash and investments, your home and other real estate, cars or anything else of value you own. Net worth is a measure of your financial health because it basically says what you would have left over if you sold all of your assets to pay all of your liabilities. Every financial move you make should be aimed at increasing your net worth. This means either increasing assets, or decreasing liabilities
A “net worth” statement or “balance sheet” is designed to provide you with a picture of the financial soundness of your business at a specific point in time. Net worth statements are often prepared at the beginning and ending of the accounting period (i.e. January 1), but can be done at any time. A Complete set of Financial Statements (Decision Tool), including the beginning and ending net worth statements, the income statement, the cash flow statement, the statement of owner equity and the financial performance measures is available to do a comprehensive financial analysis of your business.
In order to get where you want to go, you need to know where you are. You can get a view of your financial position by generating a personal net worth statement. Over time your net worth will change as your assets earn interest or are depleted and your liabilities increase or decrease. Use this calculator to estimate what your net worth could be in the future based on specified growth rates.
In order to get where you want to go, you need to know where you are. You can get a view of your financial position by generating a personal net worth statement. Over time your net worth will change as your assets earn interest or are depleted and your liabilities increase or decrease. 