This result is due to collagen, a protein substance which yields gelatine and is found in the bones, skin and connective tissue of animals. In manufacturing, unflavoured gelatine is extracted from the collagen by hot water, then concentrated and filtered for purity and clarity. 
Substances containing gelatin or functioning in a similar way are called gelatinous. Gelatin is an irreversibly hydrolyzed form of collagen. It is found in most gummy candy as well as other products such as marshmallows, gelatin dessert, and some ice cream, dip and yogurt. Gelatin is used for the clarification of juices, such as apple juice, and of vinegar. Isinglass, from the swim bladders of fish, is still used as a fining agent for wine and beer. Beside hartshorn jelly, from deer antlers (hence the name hartshorn), isinglass was one of the oldest sources of gelatin.
Gelatin is a protein made from the skins and bones of pigs and cows. It's a common ingredient in a number of products, including: 1  Makeup. 2  Food. 3  Medicines. 4  Vaccines. 
GELATIN Overview Information. Gelatin is a protein made from animal products. Gelatin is used for weight loss and for treating osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and brittle bones (osteoporosis). Some people also use it for strengthening bones, joints, and fingernails. Gelatin is LIKELY SAFE for most people in food amounts and POSSIBLY SAFE in the larger amounts used as medicine. There's some evidence that gelatin in doses up to 10 grams daily can be safely used for up to 6 months.
Gelatin (sometimes gelatine) is a common gelling agent and thickener that most people are familiar with. It is flavorless, colorless and brittle when dry. In it's pure form, gelatin comes either as gelatin sheets, or as powder. Generally, it is made from animal bones and collagen, the most common source being pig skin. Sheet gelatin can be softened in water before it is added to a liquid. The easiest and most hygienic way is to put the sheet in 5 times it's weight of cold water, then leave for a few minutes to soften; this is called blooming. Then add the gelatin to the liquid, which must be at least 37 degrees to melt it.
Gelatin or gelatine (from Latin: gelatus meaning stiff, frozen) is a translucent, colourless, brittle (when dry), flavourless foodstuff, derived from collagen obtained from various animal by-products. It is commonly used as a gelling agent in food, pharmaceuticals, photography, and cosmetic manufacturing. Gelatin is used for the clarification of juices, such as apple juice, and of vinegar. Isinglass, from the swim bladders of fish, is still used as a fining agent for wine and beer. Beside hartshorn jelly, from deer antlers (hence the name hartshorn), isinglass was one of the oldest sources of gelatin.
Gelatin. Gelatin is a protein substance derived from collagen, a natural protein present in the tendons, ligaments, and tissues of mammals. It is produced by boiling the connective tissues, bones and skins of animals, usually cows and pigs. As a foodstuff, gelatin is the basis for jellied desserts; used in the preservation of fruit and meat, and to make powdered milk, merinque, taffy, marshmallow, and fondant.
Seems innocent enough, but its source might surprise you. Gelatin is a yellowish, odorless, and nearly tasteless substance that is made by prolonged boiling of skin, cartilage, and bones from animals. It's made primarily from the stuff meat industries have left over — we're talking about pork skins, horns, and cattle bones. Ugh. 
Gelatin's. use in the manufacture of medicinal capsules occurred in the twentieth century. Gelatin is a protein substance that is extracted from collagen, a natural protein present in skin, bones, and animal tissue. As a protein, it contains many amino acids that lend itself to a diverse amount of applications. As a foodstuff, gelatin is the basis for jellied desserts; used in the preservation of fruit and meat, and to make powdered milk, merinque, taffy, marshmallow, and fondant.