Fascioliasis is a parasitic infection typically caused by Fasciola hepatica, which is also known as the common liver fluke or the sheep liver fluke.. A related parasite, Fasciola gigantica, also can infect people. 
Fasciola hepatica: Liver disease caused by infections with parasitic flukes of the genus FASCIOLA, such as FASCIOLA HEPATICA. Source: Diseases Database. Fasciola hepatica: A species of helminth commonly called the sheep liver fluke. It occurs in the biliary passages, liver, and gallbladder during various stages of development. Snails and aquatic vegetation are the intermediate hosts. Occasionally seen in man, it is most common in sheep and cattle.
Fasciola hepatica is one of the largest flukes of the world, reaching a length of 30 mm and a width of 13 mm. It is leaf-shape, pointed at the end or posteriorly, and wide in the front or anteriorly, although the shape varies somewhat. 
Causal Agent: Fascioliasis is caused by Fasciola hepatica and less often by F. gigantica, which are flat worms classified as liver flukes (trematodes). Some human cases have been caused by hybrid species. Additional Fasciola species have been found in animals. 
(March 2015). Fasciola hepatica, also known as the common liver fluke or sheep liver fluke, is a parasitic trematod (fluke or flatworm, a type of helminth) of the class Trematoda, phylum Platyhelminthes that infects the livers of various mammals, including humans. 
Fasciola Hepatica-Liver Fluke. Fasciola hepatica is a parasitic fluke that lives in the liver. In addition to humans it infects cows and sheep. It is known as the common liver fluke and causes a disease called fascioliasis. The life cycle of Fasciola hepatica starts when a female lays eggs in the liver of an infected human. 
Fasciolosis is caused by two digenetic trematodes F. hepatica and F. gigantica. Adult flukes of both species are localized in the bile ducts of the liver or gallbladder. F. hepatica measures 2 to 3 cm and has a cosmopolitan distribution.
The trematodes Fasciola hepatica (the Sheep Liver Fluke) and Fasciola gigantica are parasites of herbivores that can infect humans accidentally, causing a condition known as fascioliasis. Fascioliasis occurs worldwide. March 2015). Fasciola hepatica, also known as the common liver fluke or sheep liver fluke, is a parasitic trematod (fluke or flatworm, a type of helminth) of the class Trematoda, phylum Platyhelminthes that infects the livers of various mammals, including humans.
Fascioliasis is an infectious disease caused by Fasciola parasites, which are flat worms referred to as liver flukes. The adult (mature) flukes are found in the bile ducts and liver of infected people and animals, such as sheep and cattle.he main species is Fasciola hepatica, which is also known as the common liver fluke and the sheep liver fluke.. A related species, Fasciola gigantica, also can infect people.
Morphology: The Adult Worm-Averaging 30mm in length and 13 mm in width, Fasciola hepatica is one of the largest flukes in the world. The adult worm has a very characteristic leaf shape with the anterior end being broader than the posterior end and an anterior cone-shaped projection. History: Eggs of Fasciola hepatica have been found in mummies, showing that human infection was occurring at least as early as Pharaonic times (Farag). Indeed, F. hepatica was the first fluke or trematode to be reported. It was first discovered, however, not in humans, but in sheep where it causes a more obvious burden.