Diflunisal (Dolobid ®) is a prescription medicine used for mild to moderate pain relief, as well as inflammation and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. Diflunisal is in a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs for short. By blocking prostaglandins, diflunisal is useful at reducing pain related to bone, muscle, or tendon injury or inflammation, as well as alleviating pain and joint swelling associated with different types of arthritis. Diflunisal is not a cure for arthritis, however, nor does it affect the progression of the disease.
By blocking prostaglandins, Dolobid is useful at reducing pain related to bone, muscle, or tendon injury or inflammation, as well as alleviating pain and joint swelling associated with different types of arthritis. Dolobid is not a cure for arthritis, however, nor does it affect the progression of the disease. Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Dolobid ® (diflunisal) is a prescription medicine used for mild to moderate pain relief, as well as inflammation or stiffness caused by osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. It belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs for short
Diflunisal is not a cure for these types of arthritis, however, nor does it slow down the progression of the disease. Diflunisal and other NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) are thought to work by inhibiting the action of certain hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. 1 Pain relief. 2  Diflunisal can relieve pain following a procedure, as well as pain caused by straining a muscle or inflammation in a tendon (tendonitis) or bursa (bursitis). 3  Diflunisal can also be used to treat general pain, such as knee pain, back pain, or foot pain. 4  Relief of osteoarthritis symptoms.
Diflunisal is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Diflunisal is used to treat mild to moderate pain, osteoarthritis, or rheumatoid arthritis. Less serious side effects may include: 1  mild nausea, stomach pain, vomiting, upset stomach; 2  diarrhea, constipation, gas; 3  dizziness, drowsiness, headache, tired feeling; 4  sleep problems (insomnia); or. 5  ringing in your ears.
Dolobid is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to relieve symptoms of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, such as pain, inflammation, and stiffness. Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Dolobid ® (diflunisal) is a prescription medicine used for mild to moderate pain relief, as well as inflammation or stiffness caused by osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. It belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs for short
Diflunisal is a salicylic acid derivative with analgesic and anti-inflammatory activity. It was developed by Merck Sharp & Dohme in 1971 after showing promise in a research project studying more potent chemical analogs of aspirin. Effectiveness of diflunisal is similar to other NSAIDs, but the duration of action is twelve hours or more. This means fewer doses per day are required for chronic administration. In acute use, it is popular in dentistry when a single dose after oral surgery can maintain analgesia until the patient is asleep that night.
Be the first to review this Drug. Diflunisal is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Diflunisal is used to treat mild to moderate pain, osteoarthritis, or rheumatoid arthritis. Diflunisal may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. This medicine may cause life-threatening heart or circulation problems such as heart attack or stroke, especially if you use it long term. Do not use this medication if you are allergic to diflunisal, or if you have a history of allergic reaction to aspirin or other NSAIDs. Do not use diflunisal just before or after heart bypass surgery (coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG).
INDICATIONS. Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of DOLOBID (diflunisal) and other treatment options before deciding to use DOLOBID (diflunisal) . Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS). 
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Diflunisal is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that is effective in treating fever, pain, and inflammation in the body. Other members of this class include ibuprofen (Motrin), indomethacin (Indocin), nabumetone (Relafen), naproxen (Anaprox, Naprosyn, Aleve) and several others. Dr. Charles Pat Davis, MD, PhD, is a board certified Emergency Medicine doctor who currently practices as a consultant and staff member for hospitals. He has a PhD in Microbiology (UT at Austin), and the MD (Univ. Texas Medical Branch, Galveston).