An example of a feedback mechanism in humans would be the increase in heart rate and respiratory rate which occurs in response to increased exercise or other increased muscle cell activity. Some other examples of feedback mechanisms in living things appear below. The graphic above shows the response of a human to being struck on the knee with a hammer. A change in the environment is called a stimulus. In this situation, the stimulus is the being struck with the hammer. A response is the manner in which the organism reacts to the stimulus.
A feedback mechanism (also referred to as a  feedback system  or a  feedback loop ) is. in which the state of a specific aspect of the body's condition (called a  controlled condition ), e.g. temperature, is. 
Positive feedback mechanisms. A positive feedback mechanism is the exact opposite of a negative feedback mechanism. With negative feedback, the output reduces the original effect of the stimulus. In a positive feedback system, the output enhances the original stimulus. A good example of a positive feedback system is child birth. Almost all homeostatic control mechanisms are negative feedback mechanisms. These mechanisms change the variable back to its original state or “ideal value”. A good example of a negative feedback mechanism is a home thermostat (heating system). The thermostat contains the receptor (thermometer) and control center
Lesson Summary. Negative feedback is a regulatory mechanism in which a 'stimulus' causes an opposite 'output' in order to maintain an ideal level of whatever is being regulated. Negative feedback loops occur in a series of steps. 1  You have a stimulus, in which a change occurs. 
The control of blood sugar (glucose) by insulin is another good example of a negative feedback mechanism. When blood sugar rises, receptors in the body sense a change. In turn, the control center (pancreas) secretes insulin into the blood effectively lowering blood sugar levels. Almost all homeostatic control mechanisms are negative feedback mechanisms. These mechanisms change the variable back to its original state or “ideal value”. A good example of a negative feedback mechanism is a home thermostat (heating system). The thermostat contains the receptor (thermometer) and control center
Feedback mechanism. Definition. noun. (1) A loop system in which the system responds to perturbation either in the same direction (positive feedback) or in the opposite direction (negative feedback). (2) A process in which the level of one substance influences the level of another substance. (3) A mechanism or a signal that tends to initiate (or accelerate) or to inhibit (or slow down) a process. Supplement. An example of positive feedback loop is the onset of contractions in childbirth.
/feed·back/ (fēd´bak) the return of some of the output of a system as input so as to exert some control in the process; feedback is negative when the return exerts an inhibitory control, positive when it exerts a stimulatory effect. the return of some of the output of a system as input so as to exert some control in the process. Feedback controls are a type of self-regulating mechanism by which certain activities are sustained within prescribed ranges.
1. Feedback Mechanisms. Any change in the environment leading to additional and enhanced changes in that system is the result of a positive feedback mechanism. Alternatively, if a change in the environment leads to a compensating process that mitigates the change it is a negative feedback mechanism. In climate change discussions the focus is on the atmospheric radiation field as a forcing of the climate system (radiative forcing).
What is the difference between positive and negative feedback? Many molecular and physiological processes are controlled by feedback mechanisms. In a feedback loop the product of a process, such as the breakdown of proteins into amino acids, has an effect on the rate of the process. 