Modern batteries use a variety of chemicals to power their reactions. Common battery chemistries include: 1  Zinc-carbon battery: The zinc-carbon chemistry is common in many inexpensive AAA, AA, C and D dry cell batteries. 1 A variety of substances are used in lithium batteries, but a common combination is a lithium cobalt oxide cathode and a carbon anode. 2  Lead-acid battery (rechargeable) : This is the chemistry used in a typical car battery.
The lemon battery is similar to the first electrical battery invented in 1800 by Alessandro Volta, who used brine (salt water) instead of lemon juice. The lemon battery illustrates the type of chemical reaction (oxidation-reduction) that occurs in batteries. The zinc and copper are called the electrodes, and the juice inside the lemon is called the electrolyte. 
Skills to develop. 1  Explain: the chemistry in a battery operation; 2  oxidation and reduction reactions; 3  the technique used to represent a battery; 4  the various parts of a battery. 5  Classify chemical reactions as oxidation, reduction or other types. 1 Explain: the chemistry in a battery operation; 2  oxidation and reduction reactions; 3  the technique used to represent a battery; 4  the various parts of a battery.
A battery is a package of one or more galvanic cells used for the production and storage of electric energy by chemical means. A galvanic cell consists of at least two half cells, a reduction cell and an oxidation cell. Chemical reactions in the two half cells provide the energy for the galvanic cell operations. 1 Explain: the chemistry in a battery operation; 2  oxidation and reduction reactions; 3  the technique used to represent a battery; 4  the various parts of a battery. 5  Classify chemical reactions as oxidation, reduction or other type
Electrochemical cells which generate an electric current are called voltaic cells or galvanic cells, and common batteries consist of one or more such cells. In other electrochemical cells an externally supplied electric current is used to drive a chemical reaction which would not occur spontaneously. Electrochemical Cells. An extremely important class of oxidation and reduction reactions are used to provide useful electrical energy in batteries. A simple electrochemical cell can be made from copper and zinc metals with solutions of their sulfates.
Confidence votes 18.3K. In a battery, chemical reactions occur as two half reactions, each half reaction occurring at one of the two principal electrodes of the battery. One of the half reactions is an oxidation and the other is a reduction. Chemical reactions occur so that atoms gain stability. For example, oxygen will react with carbon because the product, carbon dioxide, has more chemical stability-in other w … ords, each atom shares its electrons to give the other atom(s) in the molecule an electron arrangement of more stability that the one before.