Respiratory Therapist Las Vegas, NV average salary is $66,002, median salary is $56,200 with a salary range from $20,155 to $900,000. Respiratory Therapist Las Vegas, NV salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Respiratory Therapist Las Vegas, NV salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Respiratory Therapist Salary and Wages by State. Here are the highest paying US states for average respiratory therapist salaries and hourly wages, based on 2012 data. Figures include lowest, median, highest, and average salaries and wages. Generally, the more education and experience, the higher the salary a respiratory therapist can demand. Larger facilities sometimes pay higher wages than smaller facilities, but this depends on other factors such as geographic location.
A respiratory therapist’s salary varies depending upon many factors, such as the type of workplace, the focus of their practice and job description, the level of education and experience, geographic location, and the size of their facility of employment. Generally, the more education and experience, the higher the salary a respiratory therapist can demand. Larger facilities sometimes pay higher wages than smaller facilities, but this depends on other factors such as geographic location.
Average Respiratory Therapist salaries for job postings in Las Vegas, NV are 19% lower than average Respiratory Therapist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The Nevada Workforce Informer indicated that the average respiratory therapist salary in Nevada was $69,340 in 2014. Salaries ranged from $51,293 for those in the 10 th percentile to $91,291 for those in the 90 th. Salary ranges for Nevada’s respiratory therapists in major metropolitan areas are shown below: The Nevada Workforce Informer projects a 16.8% increase in the field of respiratory therapy between 2012 and 2022. The increase is projected to be 16.6% in the Las Vegas area and 15.2% in the Reno and Carson City areas. 32 jobs a year are expected to become available in Nevada through 2022.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Registered Respiratory Therapist in Las Vegas, NV that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Registered Respiratory Therapist in Las Vegas are expected to make less than the median. Requires an associate's degree and a credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT). May be expected to maintain a CPR certification. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.