Recycling helps to save our future! Recycling reduces Air pollution Recycling reduces Water contamination Recycling reduces Land pollution Recycle and save money + have a better life! Recycling secures the future of our children and grandchildren. The four R of RECYCLING: Re-use-Reduce-Re-buy-Recycle Recycling reduces air pollution + water contamination! Recycling reduces the need for more landfills! Recycling gives our children a chance to use natural resources. Recycling has many faces
Environmental Affects. Recycling affects the environment in a number of ways, mostly positive. Surprisingly, recycling has a few potential negative effects as well. This article will talk about the positive and the negative effects of recycling on the environment, and how to optimize your own recycling efforts. slide 2 of 5. Recycling saves energy. Using recycled material when making plastics and paper uses less energy than producing them from virgin, new materials. Recycling reduces pollution. Recycling reduces the amount of waste put into landfills. Landfills are potentially hazardous due to the concentration of non-biodegradable items that slowly leach toxic chemicals into the surrounding garbage in the landfill
Landfill Gases. Air pollution from landfills is decreased because of recycling. A landfills emits a great deal of air pollution in the form of gases as its contents break down. These gases include carbon dioxide, methane, volatile organic compounds, hazardous air pollutants and odorous compounds that are nuisances for nearby residents.
Positive Effects of Recycling on the Environment. Recycling saves energy. Using recycled material when making plastics and paper uses less energy than producing them from virgin, new materials. Recycling reduces pollution. Recycling reduces the amount of waste put into landfills. Landfills are potentially hazardous due to the concentration of non-biodegradable items that slowly leach toxic chemicals into the surrounding garbage in the landfill
Producing white paper from virgin pulp and chlorine-based bleaches emits pollutants into the air, water and soil. Recycling paper reduces greenhouse gas pollution, saves landfill space and conserves natural resources. According to Keep America Beautiful, approximately 75 percent of newspapers, more than 80 percent of corrugated containers and greater than 53 percent of office paper is recovered for recycling. 
1 Recycling one ton of newspaper saves 15 trees. 2  Every ton of newspaper recycled saves 4100 kWh or enough energy to power a TV for 31 hours. 3  Recycling a soda can saves 96 percent of the energy used to make a can from ore and produces 95 percent less air pollution and 97 percent less water pollution. 1 Recycling one ton of cardboard saves over nine cubic yards of landfill space. 2  Number of landfills in operation in 1978: 14,000; in 1988: 7,924; in 2001: 1,858; in 2006: 1,754. 3  Recycling one ton of newspaper saves 15 trees. 4
Processing recycling materials can have a negative affect on air quality. For instance, a glass recycling plant in Washington state produces more toxic emissions and has more pollution violation fines than any other factory in that region of the country. A landfills emits a great deal of air pollution in the form of gases as its contents break down. These gases include carbon dioxide, methane, volatile organic compounds, hazardous air pollutants and odorous compounds that are nuisances for nearby residents.
New York City covered in a shroud of smog on a summer day. Pollution is the introduction of harmful contaminants into air, water or soil. These contaminants can have dire effects on entire ecosystems, making life more difficult for humans, plants and animals. Children and the elderly are particularly susceptible to the health effects from these toxins. 