Meaning of Dexter. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Dexter means-flexible. Other origins for the name Dexter include-Latin-American, English.The name Dexter is most often used as a boy name or male name. Latin-American Name Meaning-flexible. Origin-Latin-America
The name Dexter is of ancient Greek origin. It derives from the Greek word dexiteros, a poetic form of the word dexios, meaning right-handed, fortunate, skilled. The Latin word dexter derives from the Greek dexiteros. I see someone else mentioned the character Dexter from the show on Showtime. It's kind of interesting how the name means skilled.. Dexter on the show is a very skilled serial killer. I think the author chose this name for a symbolic purpose.
Dexter has 1 feminine form: Dextra. Dexter is a very popular first name for males (#466 out of 1220, Top 38%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#3390 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Dexter /dex-ter/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced DEKS-ter. It is of Latin and Old English origin, and the meaning of Dexter is right-handed, fortunate; woman who dyes. Originally from Greek dexi meaning  worship , which was transferred to using the right hand, hence dexi hand. Dexter is a very popular first name for males (#466 out of 1220, Top 38%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#3390 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census).
-- Anonymous User 12/14/2005. My name is Dexter and I think it's was the first great thing my mother ever did for me, other than giving birth. Through school people would be interested in me just because of my name and it made it easy to make friends, especially since I moved to a new school in high school. I see someone else mentioned the character Dexter from the show on Showtime. It's kind of interesting how the name means skilled.. Dexter on the show is a very skilled serial killer. I think the author chose this name for a symbolic purpose.
Meanings and history of the name Dexter: | Edit. Dexter means right handed, dexterous, favorable, and the right side of a family crest/shield (as opposed to sinister). Dexter is also an English surname. It can refer to someone from the town of Exeter (d'Exeter) or a dyer of cloth. I've had a lot of mixed reactions to the name, probably because I didn't go for a traditional irish name or name him after his daddy! However family members who were at me my whole pregnancy to change the name have actually come round to it now and all admit it really suits my son.
The name Dexter is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Dexter is: From a surname meaning 'dyer'. American Meaning: The name Dexter is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Dexter is: From a surname meaning 'dyer'. Latin Meaning: The name Dexter is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Dexter is: Right handed. Right
Dexter is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Dex-ter. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 394 in baby name popularity for boys with 783 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 
Definition of DEXTER. 1. : relating to or situated on the right. 2. : being or relating to the side of a heraldic shield at the right of the person bearing it. — dexter adverb. ADVERTISEMENT