This Site Might Help You. RE: what exactly does the Ohm symbol stand for? i found a tattoo design i reallyyyy like, and ive seen the ohm symbol alot and i know its like a hindu something or another i just dont know the exact meaning. id like to research more before i get a tattoo. 5 following. 9 answers 9. Report Abuse.
In Hinduism, Om is one of the most important spiritual symbols (pratima). It refers to Atman (soul, self within) and Brahman (ultimate reality, entirety of the universe, truth, divine, supreme spirit, cosmic principles, knowledge). The Om symbol, with epigraphical variations, is found in many southeast Asian countries. For example, it is called Unalom or Aum in Thailand and has been a part of various flags and official emblems such as in the Thong Chom Klao of King Rama IV. The Cambodian official seal has similarly incorporated the Aum symbol.
You may be surprised to learn that the Om or Aum symbol actually has a very deep, significant, spiritual meaning that is very specific and yet, at the same time, so vague it's almost incomprehensible. 
Mostly likely, the ohm lotus tattoo represents an amalgamation of several religious symbols. OHM, in Hinduism, represents the sound the Universe as being represented b … y and so practitioners will say it during their meditations to aid them in their search for enlightenment. 
Om or Aum is a mantra that is often chanted at the beginning and end of yoga sessions. Om is both a sound and a symbol rich in religious meaning and depth. 
Om or aum, in Hinduism and Buddhism, is thought to be the sound that brought the universe into existence. It may or may not be used as a sort of metaphor/name for God, as Buddhism can be atheistic, polytheistic, agnostic, monotheistic, or pantheistic, depending on the individual practitioner and/or the sect. Aum or Om Om is not meant to be a word but rather an intonation and is of paramount importance in both Buddhism and Hinduism as this is meant to be a reflection of the omnipotent, omnipresence of God.. Om represents both the unmanifest (nirguna) and manifest (saguna) aspects of God. JellyBlue · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Three Phonemes, One Symbol. The symbol for “om” resembles a calligraphic inscription of the three Sanskrit phonemes that make up the word: “a,” “u” and “m.” Brahma, the chief Hindu god, is said to have first spoken the syllable, according to Swami Nirmalananda Giri's commentary on the Hindu holy text, the Upanishads. Sometimes written as “ohm” or “aum,” the word comes from Sanskrit, according to “Encyclopedia of Occultism and Parapsychology.” The word “om” has no direct translation, but according to Swami Krishnananda Saraswati, Hindu divine and scholar, it conveys all this.”. Other People Are Reading.
The om symbol (a.k.a.: ohm, aum, omkar) is one such symbol-proof that BIG symbolism often comes in tiny packages. Getting an om tattoo will convey an understanding of very primitive, ancient universal principles. This symbol is actually a conveyance of sound-the sound of life. 
Om or Aum is of paramount importance in Hinduism. This symbol (as seen in the image on the right) is a sacred syllable representing Brahman, the impersonal Absolute of Hinduism — omnipotent, omnipresent, and the source of all manifest existence. Brahman, in itself, is incomprehensible; so a symbol becomes mandatory to help us realize the Unknowable
In Hinduism, Om (also spelled Aum) is a Hindu sacred sound that is considered the greatest of all mantras. The syllable Om is composed of the three sounds a-u-m (in Sanskrit, the vowels a and u combine to become o) and the symbol's threefold nature is central to its meaning. It represent several important triads: 