GEEDI m Somali. GEESI f Somali. A name meaning a courageous man, brave, hero.. GULED m & f Somali. GUREY m Somali. A name that comes from the Somali word gurey, meaning left-handed.. This word is usually an adjective, but sometimes a name. A name that means replacement.. A family may give the name to a male whose father or older brother has died. CAWO f Somali. A name that comes from the Somali word cawo which means luck.. Outside of Somalia, Somalis may spell it as Awo.
Meaning of Indian name: Samata. Meaning of the name Samata is 'Equality'. Samata is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Samata is '1'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Samata
A name that comes from the Somali word bare which means teacher.. Barre was the last name (meaning the first name of the grandfather of) Mohamed Siad Barre (Somali spelling: Maxamed Siyaad Barre)... A name that means replacement.. A family may give the name to a male whose father or older brother has died. CAWO f Somali. A name that comes from the Somali word cawo which means luck.. Outside of Somalia, Somalis may spell it as Awo.
Names [edit]. The name is thought to be derived from the Persian word shamshēr which literally means “paw claw,” due to its long, curved design. The kilij is a scimitar used by the Turks and the Ottoman Empire; it appeared around the 15th century. The kilij is a unique kind of scimitar that has a slight taper down the straight of the blade until the last third of the sword, when it angles sharply and becomes deeper.
A Somali name that means thanks.. MATAAN m Somali. A name from the Somali word for twin.. MOORGAN m Somali. MULKI f Somali. NALA f African, Somali, Popular Culture. An African feminine name meaning us.. A famous bearer is Nala, Simba's friend (and later wife) from Disney's 'The Lion King'. A name that means replacement.. A family may give the name to a male whose father or older brother has died. CAWO f Somali. A name that comes from the Somali word cawo which means luck.. Outside of Somalia, Somalis may spell it as Awo.
Satmar (Hebrew: סאטמאר or סאטמר) is a Hasidic movement founded in 1905 by Rabbi Joel Teitelbaum in the city of Szatmarnemeti szatmárnémeti In-hungarian Ruled, partium Now Satu, Mare. Romania Following World WAR ii it was reestablished In New, york becoming one of the Largest hasidic movements in the. world In 1925, Teitelbaum was appointed chief Orthodox rabbi of Carei. On 21 January 1926, Chaim Zvi Teitelbaum died unexpectedly. While he was officially succeeded by his fourteen-year-old son, Yekusiel Yehuda Teitelbaum (II) , his followers accepted Joel as their leader, and he became the dynasty's head in all but name.
[ 3 syll. sa-ma-ta, sam-ata ] The baby girl name Samata is pronounced SaaMaaTaa- †. Samata's origin is Sanskrit, and its use, Indian. Samata's meaning is 'sameness'. Samata is not widely used as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
A name that derives from the word cilmi which means knowledge or learning.. COLOOW m Somali. DAAHIR m Somali. A name that derives from the Somali word that means pure or religiously pure.. Outside of Somalia, Somalis may spell the name as DAHIR. A name that means replacement.. A family may give the name to a male whose father or older brother has died. CAWO f Somali. A name that comes from the Somali word cawo which means luck.. Outside of Somalia, Somalis may spell it as Awo.
List of German baby names, German baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & German names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of German baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Abdul-satar in German origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. © Copyright 2015 Babynology. Higher ratio of birth mark. The ratio of birth mark among babies is very high i.e. one baby born out of every 3 babies have a birth mark present on their body. Baby girls have more probability of birth marks than baby boys.