Laser surgery for an enlarged prostate can take from 30 minutes to a couple of hours depending on the size and anatomy of the prostate being treated. 
Re: how long did it take to get bladder control after turp. It will be two weeks tomorrow since the laser turp, and I've had no dripping or incontinance, but when I gotta go, I gotta go. There is a real sense of urgency to it, but I do make it down the hall to the restroom. 
1 Transurethral Needle Ablation (TUNA) of the prostate: this is a less invasive procedure than TURP, can be performed in day surgery or as an outpatient, with fewer problems and maintains normal ejaculation. 2  Symptoms are improved after TUNA, but not as much as after TURP. Overview on TURP. TURP is the classic treatment for urinary symptoms due to the prostate (prostatism) or BPH. Prostatic tissue is removed and so the physical bulk of the prostate is reduced.
What To Expect After Surgery. The hospital stay after TURP is commonly 1 to 2 days. Following surgery, a catheter is used to remove urine and blood or blood clots in the bladder that may result from the procedure. When the urine is free of significant bleeding or blood clots, the catheter can be removed and you can go home. 1 Ejaculation into the bladder (retrograde ejaculation) is very common. 2  It occurs in about 25 to 99 men out of 100. 3  This does not affect sexual function. 4  Men who have TURP appear to have no greater risk for erection problems than men who do not have surgery.
Following a transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), you'll usually need to recover in hospital for one to three days before you can go home. While in hospital, you may be given fluids directly into a vein (intravenously) until you've recovered from the anaesthetic and you're able to eat and drink. Blood in your urine. After having a TURP, it's normal to occasionally notice some blood in your urine. Around a week or two after the operation the amount of blood may increase as the scab on your prostate falls off.
It`s been 4 months now and I feel as good as new. I think it varys from person to person though, depending on how severe the conditions were beforehand. I have heard of men who could not control their bladder for 6 months afterwards and others who have no problem urinating after only a week or two. I am 50yrs old,and supposed to go for TURP this week. Doctor says Its a one day hosp stay and the catheter will be removed the next day.Then I will be released from the hosptial. He also says revcovery time is 2 to three weeks. But I read that the Catheter may be in for 3 days, and recovery time is 2 months.
Guest. Usually, patients should stay in the hospital for about 3 days after surgery, because a catheter is used to drain urine. Some require a few weeks up to a month to be able to come back to work and other everyday activities. During the recovery period some rules should be followed like: avoid heavy lifting, driving, or operating machinery.
Recovery can take anywhere from two to eight weeks. During the first few weeks after the operation, there may be a deterioration of some of the symptoms present before surgery. You may have some temporary problems controlling urination, but long-term incontinence rarely occurs. Overview on TURP. TURP is the classic treatment for urinary symptoms due to the prostate (prostatism) or BPH. Prostatic tissue is removed and so the physical bulk of the prostate is reduced.
Hi, my grandfather is advised to have a TURP-Transurethral resection of the prostate. The surgery takes 90 minutes, but how long does it take to recover from it? Some require a few weeks up to a month to be able to come back to work and other everyday activities. During the recovery period some rules should be followed like: avoid heavy lifting, driving, or operating machinery.
Transurethral resection of the prostate, or TURP, which also involves removal of part of the prostate gland, is an approach performed through the penis with an endoscope (small, flexible tube with a light and a lens on the end). Cryosurgery is a less invasive procedure than surgical removal of the prostate gland. Researchers don't know all the functions of the prostate gland. However, the prostate gland plays an important role in both sexual and urinary function. It's common for the prostate gland to become enlarged as a man ages, and it's also likely for a man to encounter some type of prostate problem in his lifetime.