Medical Definition of EVAGINATION. 1. 2. : a part or structure that is produced by evagination—called also outpocketing, outpouching. — evag·i·nate \i-ˈvaj-ə-ˌnāt\ transitive verb, evag·i·nat·ed evag·i·nat·ing. Definition of EVAGINATION. 1. : an act or instance of everting. 2.
A diverticulum (plural: diverticula) is the medical or biological term for an outpouching of a hollow (or a fluid-filled) structure in the body. Depending upon which layers of the structure are involved, they are described as being either true or false. 1 Bladder diverticulum: Balloon-like growths on the bladder commonly associated with a chronic outflow obstruction, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia in older males. 2  Usually found in pairs on opposite sides of the bladder, bladder diverticula are often surgically removed to prevent infection, rupture, or even cancer.
ANSWER: A brain aneurysm is small, round outpouching of an artery in the brain that develops due to thinning of the blood vessel wall. A brain aneurysm that bursts, or ruptures, can lead to serious medical problems. However, many aneurysms do not rupture, and some unruptured aneurysms do not require treatment. Brain aneurysms are common. About 2 percent of the population has an unruptured brain aneurysm.
Abstract. Bladder diverticulum, an outpouching of the mucosa through the muscular wall of the bladder, is a multifactorial disease process that can be either acquired or congenital. The same underlying pathophysiology of diverticulum formation and inflammation of the outpouching leading to diverticulitis can be readily applied to any hollow organ. In this case, the hollow organ in question happened to be the bladder, which to this author’s knowledge is the first such description.
- (medicine), a large blister filled with serous fluid, or jargon for an outpouching of any kind, from a vessel (see aneurysm), or in the lungs (see pneumothorax). - and inferior to the inferior constrictor muscles). the result is an outpouching of the posterior pharyngeal wall, just above the esophagus. while it. Synonyms of outpouching. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word outpouching. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word outpouching and, of course, outpouching synonyms and on the right images related to
A diverticulum is an outpouching in the bladder. It can be either congenital (born with) or acquired. Congenital diverticula are usually diagnosed in childhood or on prenatal ultrasound. A bladder diverticulum is an outpouching in the bladder and is often asymptomatic.
Diverticulosis: Diverticulosis is the condition of having diverticula, small outpouchings from the large intestine, the colon. (One outpouching is a diverticulum; two or more are diverticula). Diverticulosis can occur anywhere in the colon but it is most typical in the sigmoid colon, the S-shaped segment of the colon located in the left lower part of the abdomen. 
Left Ventricular Diverticulum. Left ventricular diverticulum is defined as an outpouching structure that contains endocardium, myocardium, and pericardium and displays normal contraction. Left ventricular diverticula are distinguished from LV aneurysms, which have fibrous walls and exhibit paradoxical motion. Left ventricular diverticula are considered to be congenital if there is no history of conditions that have injured the myocardium. An outpouching can occur in a weak area of the ventricular wall in the first 2 or 3 weeks of embryonic life.
2. Discussion. A diverticulum is an outpouching of the lining or the entire wall of any hollow organ in the body [ 1, 2 ].As a general rule, regardless of organ involved, these outpouchings can either be congenital or acquired [ 3 ]. The same underlying pathophysiology of diverticulum formation and inflammation of the outpouching leading to diverticulitis can be readily applied to any hollow organ. In this case, the hollow organ in question happened to be the bladder, which to this author’s knowledge is the first such description.
an outpouching of the embryonic pharynx rostrad to the pharyngeal membrane and caudal to Rathke's pouch. vesicogenital pouch. the peritoneal pouch between the bladder and the genital fold in the male, or the uterus in the female. Prussak's pouch a recess in the tympanic membrane between the flaccid part of the membrane and the neck of the malleus. Rathke's pouch a diverticulum from the embryonic buccal cavity from which the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland is developed.