Ostia (or Ostia Antica) lies 15 km from the city of Rome for which it served as the city’s principal port and harbour throughout antiquity. The name derives from ‘os’ or ‘ostium’ which means ‘mouth’ and refers to the city’s location at the mouth of the river Tiber. The strategic importance of Ostia for the defence of the Tiber mouth became apparent early on and it was fortified (the date is controversial, most probably in the mid 4th century BCE) with a military camp or castrum.
Ostia. Ostia is in Lazio, Italy, close to Rome's major airport of Fiumicino. Not far from the center of Rome, Ostia is a residential area, the capital's beach, and a well-known Tourist Port with moorings for boats from 8 to 60 metres in length. Loading photos….
detailed map of Ostia Antica and near places. Welcome to the Ostia Antica google satellite map! This place is situated in Roma, Lazio, Italy, its geographical coordinates are 41° 45' 0 North, 12° 18' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Ostia Antica. See Ostia Antica photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Ostia Antica in Italy. You can also dive right into Ostia Antica on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Ostia Antica 3D map within your web browser.
General plan of Ostia. Below is a general plan of Ostia with indications of the five modern regions of the site. Clicking on a region will take you to a more detailed, clickable plan. 
Get Ostia Antica maps for free. You can very easily download, print or embed Ostia Antica maps into your website, blog, or presentation. Just like any other images. Static image maps will look the same in all browsers. Free images are available under Free map link located above the map on all map pages. If any of Maphill's maps inspire you to come to Ostia Antica, we would like to offer you access to wide selection of hotels at low prices and with great customer service. Compare hotel prices, book online and save money.
Ancient Rome's port of Ostia, now landlocked five kilometers from the Tyrrhenian Sea, is Italy's largest excavation site after Pompeii. Ostia was founded about the fourth century BC at the mouth of the Tiber, and under the empire became the principal Roman naval base, growing to a town of 50,000 inhabitants. From being Rome's largest suburb and its commercial port, Ostia fell to disuse and malaria after the fall of the Roman Empire.
For the district of Rome, see Ostia Antica (district) . Ostia Antica is a large archeological site, close to the modern suburb of Ostia, that was the location of the harbour city of ancient Rome, which is approximately 30 kilometres (19 miles) to the northeast. Ostia (plur. of ostium) is a derivation of os, the Latin word for mouth. At the mouth of the River Tiber, Ostia was Rome's seaport, but due to silting the site now lies 3 kilometres (2 miles) from the sea. The site is noted for the excellent preservation of its ancient buildings, magnificent frescoes and impressive mosaics.
Ostia Antica hotels map. The location of each Ostia Antica hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Ostia Antica hotel map is available where all hotels in Ostia Antica are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location. You can also dive right into Ostia Antica on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Ostia Antica 3D map within your web browser.
detailed map of Ostia Parmense and near places. Welcome to the Ostia Parmense google satellite map! This place is situated in Parma, Emilia-Romagna, Italy, its geographical coordinates are 44° 31' 0 North, 9° 51' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Ostia Parmense. 3D map of Ostia Parmense in Italy. You can also dive right into Ostia Parmense on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Ostia Parmense 3D map within your web browser.