Fibers are of two types: natural fiber, which consists of animal and plant fibers, and man-made fiber, which consists of synthetic fibers and regenerated fibers.
Natural Fibers. Natural fibre is any hair like raw material directly obtainable from animals, vegetables or mineral source and convertible into nonwoven fabrics such as felt or after spinning into yarns or woven cloth. Natural fibres from vegetable fibres are obtained from the various parts of the plants.
Ramie-Ramie fibre is white, with a silky lustre, and is one of the strongest natural fibres, similar to flax in absorbency and density. Sisal-Too coarse for clothing, sisal is replacing glass fibres in composite materials used to make cars and furniture.
Textile fibers are normally broken down into two main classes, natural and man-made fibers. All fibers which come from natural sources (animals, plants, etc.) and do not require fiber formation or reformation are classed as natural fibers.
When it comes to the sustainability of clothing, natural fiber clothing is generally more sustainable than synthetic fibers which require high energy use and crude oil (source). Additionally, because natural fibers are plant materials, they decompose quickly.
1.All of the natural fiber comes from nature. 1.Synthetic fibers are completely man made. 2.Length of the fiber is nature given. 2.Length of the fiber is controlled by man. 3.Fibers are found in staple or filament form. 3.It is found in filament form but sometimes it could be converted into staple or cut length.
In the digestive tract, fiber forms a gel-like mass that bulks up food, facilitating digestion and increasing nutrient absorption, while trapping unhealthy cholesterol. Adding more natural sources of fiber to your daily diet is essential for your health.
Fiber is found in healthy, plant-based foods. It is not digested by the body and does not contain nutrients. Yet, fiber is critical for healthy digestion and bowel function and can help to reduce the risk of chronic disorders such as high blood pressure, cholesterol, diabetes and heart disease.
All fibres which come from natural sources (animals, plants, etc.) and do not require fibre formation or reformation are classed as natural fibres. The natural fibres are vegetable, animal, or mineral in origin.