A beneficiary is a person or an entity, such as a charity, who is named to receive assets from an estate, a trust or an insurance policy. A person drafting a will may name individuals and organizations as beneficiaries. Beneficiaries can be a spouse, children and grandchildren, relatives, friends and even pets.
A decedent is a deceased person. An estate is the assets owned by a deceased person minus any outstanding debts. An executor is the person or entity designated by the decedent or the court to administer the distribution of the estate.
The Executor's Rights. The executor of an estate has no rights to the estate itself. The only right to the estate held by the executor is the right to charge a reasonable amount for his services in the administration and distribution of the estate to the beneficiaries.
Executors and beneficiaries of a will have a unique relationship under the law. An executor’s role is to ensure the management of a deceased person’s estate complies with the decedent’s will and the probate rules of the state where he died.
Disadvantages. Since the job of an executor is to pay your debts and taxes, then distribute the balance of your estate to the beneficiaries, it creates a conflict of interest for a beneficiary to disburse funds from the estate that would otherwise go to him if those debts were declined for payment.
The executor also has a responsibility to the decedent’s beneficiaries to ensure each one gets the property the decedent wanted them to have, as defined by the will. This process can become difficult if the executor is also a beneficiary of the estate.
An executor can also be paid for his services to the estate. How much an executor may receive is determined by the will or state probate code and often subject to the approval of the overseeing probate court. During the approval process, beneficiaries can dispute the reasonableness of the executor’s fees.
Actions taken by an executor during the probate of an estate are usually monitored by the court, so the opportunity for any actual wrongdoing by an executor who is also a beneficiary is limited. If your estate is small and all your beneficiaries are next-of-kin, the choice of an executor may not be as critical.