Chauhan, Chouhan or Chohan is a community sometimes described as a tribe and sometimes as a caste. In the medieval period some those associated with it ruled parts of Northern India and one, Prithviraj Chauhan, was the king of Delhi. Rajput bardic accounts, which are based on mythology, describe the Chauhans as one of the four Agnikula Rajput clans who claim to have originated from a sacrificial fire-pit (agnikunda) at Mount Abu. These claims of supernatural origin are clearly improbable and unacceptable to the modern mind.
The Maha Chohan is the head, or hierarch, of the seven chohans of the rays. His name means the Great Lord, which is an office in the hierarchy of the Great White Brotherhood. Maha Chohan. Alice Bailey's definition. Mahachohan The Head of the third great department of the Hierarchy. This great being is the Lord of Civilization, and the flowering forth of the principle of intelligence.
The Comforter referred to is the Lord Maha Chohan. The first Maha Chohan Who came with the first root race in the beginning established the Flame of the Holy Spirit and the Comfort Flame here on Earth. The three Maha Chohans of the first root races have each gone on with Their race. The Maha Chohan also fills the role of Teacher. The Father-Mother God and the Son have deferred to the Maha Chohan as the supreme teacher of our souls. He is the one sent to us to teach us the commandments of God the Father and the Word of the Divine Mother.
The Third Ray is the pink ray and the Chohan is Paul the Venetian. The pink ray is the ray of love and all that we associate with it like compassion, kindness, charity, and beauty. Paul the Venetian teaches us how to set healthy boundaries and cultivate the beautiful qualities flowing through the pink ray. The Second Ray is the yellow ray and the Chohan is Lord Lanto. This is the ray of wisdom, illumination, and enlightenment. Lanto guides us on our personal quest for knowledge, wisdom, and enlightenment and helps us to understand many of the wisdom teachings.
You are cheerful and friendly, but are apt to have an emotional life. You like to have several lines of effort going at once. You are a good talker and promoter and seldom worry over anything. At times, you can be impatient, and impulsive. You have the ability to bring an idea to completion. You can express yourself joyously and constructively.
We catch another glimpse of the person of the Maha Chohan through his work in the nineteenth century with the Masters M. and K.H. That's El Morya and Koot Hoomi. These Masters were among those who sponsored the Theosophical Society, founded in 1875. At that time these Masters were high adepts and in embodiment. The Maha Chohan also fills the role of Teacher. The Father-Mother God and the Son have deferred to the Maha Chohan as the supreme teacher of our souls. He is the one sent to us to teach us the commandments of God the Father and the Word of the Divine Mother.
El Morya was Melchior (one of the three wise men), Thomas Becket (the Lord Chancellor of England), and Sir Thomas More (the man for all seasons). One of his most recognizable lifetimes was King Arthur of Camelot. The First Ray is the blue ray and the Chohan is El Morya. The blue ray is the ray of power but it also has other qualities like faith, protection, will, and strength flowing through it. El Morya teaches us what it means to follow God’s Will, the wisdom behind it, and how to come into alignment with our Higher Self. The Second Ray is the yellow ray and the Chohan is Lord Lanto. This is the ray of wisdom, illumination, and enlightenment. Lanto guides us on our personal quest for knowledge, wisdom, and enlightenment and helps us to understand many of the wisdom teachings.
El Morya. He is the chohan of the first ray of the will of God. El Morya represents the godly attributes of courage, certainty, power, forthrightness, self-reliance, dependability, faith and initiative. Hilarion is the chohan of the fifth ray and a healing master on the green ray of health, precipitation and truth. He instructs us on the relationship between science and religion, both of which are aspects of the green ray of Truth.
The Maha Chohan. The Maha Chohan is the head, or hierarch, of the seven chohans of the rays. His name means the Great Lord, which is an office in the hierarchy of the Great White Brotherhood. He embodies the white light of the seven rays and teaches the balance and integration of these rays through the eighth ray. The Maha Chohan also fills the role of Teacher. The Father-Mother God and the Son have deferred to the Maha Chohan as the supreme teacher of our souls. He is the one sent to us to teach us the commandments of God the Father and the Word of the Divine Mother.
Seven masters have mastered identity by walking these paths, defined as the seven archetypes of Christhood. These seven masters are called the chohans of the rays, which means lords of the rays. Chohan is a Sanskrit term for lord, and lord is equivalent to law; hence the chohan is the action of the law of the ray. Hilarion is the chohan of the fifth ray and a healing master on the green ray of health, precipitation and truth. He instructs us on the relationship between science and religion, both of which are aspects of the green ray of Truth.