The Iowa City Municipal Airport is located two miles southwest of downtown Iowa City in Johnson County. Iowa City is the home of the University of Iowa, with a student body of approximately 30,500. The Iowa City Municipal Airport is strategically located in close proximity to Interstates 80 and 380, as well as U.S. Highways 6 and 218, and Iowa Highway 1. The Iowa City Municipal Airport is the third most active general aviation airports in Iowa. Eighty-four aircraft are based at the Iowa City Municipal Airport.
Nearest major airport to Iowa City, Iowa: The closest major airport to Iowa City, Iowa is The Eastern Iowa Airport (CID / KCID). This airport is in Cedar Rapids, Iowa and is 23 miles from the center of Iowa City, IA. If you're looking for domestic flights to CID, check the airlines that fly to CID. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Iowa City, IA, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports
Closest airports to Iowa City, IA, United States are listed below. These are major airports close to the city of Iowa City, IA and other airports closest to Iowa City Airport. Nearest airport to Iowa City Airport and Iowa City, IA is Cedar Rapids Airport - (30.85 Km / 19.17 Miles). Following are the nearest airports to Iowa City, IA and Iowa City Airport. Distance between the two airports is given in bracket. 
View more. The Iowa City Municipal Airport is located two miles southwest of downtown Iowa City in Johnson County. Iowa City is the home of the University of Iowa, with a student body of approximately 30,500. The Iowa City-Cedar Rapids corridor is one of two principal economic growth areas within the state of Iowa. The Iowa City Municipal Airport is strategically located in close proximity to Interstates 80 and 380, as well as U.S. Highways 6 and 218, and Iowa Highway 1. The Iowa City Municipal Airport is the third most active general aviation airports in Iowa. Eighty-four aircraft are based at the Iowa City Municipal Airport.
: The closest airport to. is the Eastern Iowa Airport in Cedar Rapids (CID), which is about 20 miles north of. . There are two shuttles from the. to. . Free Transportation from the Airport to. We will be providing shuttle vans between the Eastern Iowa Airport in Cedar Rapids and the Sheraton Hotel in Iowa City. The schedule for shuttle service is Thursday (11/3), 12pm-8pm, Friday (11/4), 8am-12pm, and Sunday (11/6), 5am-3pm.
To search the nearest to city airport in Iowa,US, first enter the city / town / village name for which you want to search the nearest Iowa,US airport. Then click 'Search' button, which will return matching city / town / village names in Iowa,US. The links of the result page will be displayed. 
Closest Airport to Coralville, IA. The closest airport is The Eastern Iowa Airport (CID). Distance from The Eastern Iowa Airport to Coralville is 25,6 kilometers (15,9 miles). 
Closest Airport to Iowa City, IA. The closest airport is The Eastern Iowa Airport (CID). Distance from The Eastern Iowa Airport to Iowa City is 29,1 kilometers (18,1 miles). The Eastern Iowa Airport. The Eastern Iowa Airport is located approximately 14,8 kilometers (9,2 miles) south of Cedar Rapids and about 19,1 kilometers (11,9 miles) southwest of Marion. The Eastern Iowa Airport IATA code is CID