Noun. 1. grassland-land where grass or grasslike vegetation grows and is the dominant form of plant life. biome-a major biotic community characterized by the dominant forms of plant life and the prevailing climate. bent-an area of grassland unbounded by fences or hedges.
Trees and large shrubs are rarely found in grassland areas. There are many species of grasses that live in this biome, including, purple needlegrass, wild oats, foxtail, ryegrass, and buffalo grass. Many animals munch on these grasses, but they survive because the growth point on the grasses is very close to the ground. In North America we call temperate grasslands prairies. Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest.
A grassland is an area of land that mostly contains grasses. There are wild grasses, and less trees. Several parts of the world have grasslands. Grasslands are found in Africa, North America, Central Asia, South America, and near the coasts of Australia. The largest grasslands are in East Africa. Grasslands with a few scattered trees are called savannas. Others are called prairies or stepp
Prairies are ecosystems considered part of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome by ecologists, based on similar temperate climates, moderate rainfall, and a composition of grasses, herbs, and shrubs, rather than trees, as the dominant vegetation type. 
Full Definition of GRASSLAND. 1. : farmland occupied chiefly by forage plants and especially grasses. 2. a: land on which the natural dominant plant forms are grasses and forbs b: an ecological community in which the characteristic plants are grasses. See grassland defined for English-language learners. See grassland defined for kids
LOCATION: The name for this biome, temperate grasslands, is a great description for what it is like here. The most important plants in this biome are grasses! Temperate grasslands have some of the darkest, richest soils in the world (not in wealth, but in nutrients). In North America we call temperate grasslands prairies. Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest.
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses (Poaceae), however sedge (Cyperaceae) and rush (Juncaceae) families can also be found. Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except Antarctica. Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the Earth. For example, there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications (subdivisions) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome (' ecosystem '), which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth's surface. 
Location And Climate: Grasslands exist on every continent except for Antarctica, usually found in the interior portions. This includes the prairies of the Great Plains of North America, the pampas of South America, the veldt of South Africa, the steppes of Central Eurasia, and surrounding the deserts in Australia. Location of Grasslands. There is an average of 20 – 35 inches of rainfall a year. 
The savannas of Africa are probably the best known but tropical grasslands are also located in South America, India and Australia. There are llanos in Colombia and Venezuela, campos of the Brazilian highlands, pantanals of Upper Paraguay, plains in Australia and the Deccan Plateau of India. 