Within the nursing field are a number of titles, including Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN), Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN) and Registered Nurse (RN). This post will help clarify some of the differences, qualifications and responsibilities of LPNs and LVNs. Passing the NCLEX-PN is required for licensure of both LPNs and LVNs. The biggest difference between a Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN) and a Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) is actually the name.
In the hierarchy of the Nursing staff you may think that a nurse is just a nurse but there are a few things that you may need to know if you are considering a degree as a Registered Nurse or a Licensed Practical Nurse. 
LPN vs LVN. For anyone who has ever been in a hospital, either as a patient or a visitor, will know that there is a variety of clinicians who participate in the care of the patient. Two of these caregivers are the Licensed Practical Nurses (LPN) and Licensed Vocational Nurses (LVN). 
Registered Nurse vs. LPN. Even though they sound similar, licensed practical nurses and registered nurses have little in common in terms of job tasks, educational paths, and salary ranges. LPNs usually provide more basic nursing care and are responsible for the comfort of the patient. RNs on the other hand, primarily administer medication, treatments, and offer educational advice to patients and the public. Here's a breakdown of the key distinctions between these two in-demand positions
The biggest immediate difference between the LPN versus RN career path is the degree you’ll earn. RNs earn a professional nursing degree, while LPNs earn a practical nursing degree. A professional nursing degree consists of more courses, so it takes more time to complete than a practical nursing degree. However, with either option you must take and pass the NCLEX exam before officially becoming an LPN or RN.
The main difference between LPNs and RNs. One of the main things that differentiate the LPN and RN is the type of license they have. The licensure of a licensed practical nurse limits the autonomy he or she has in her work. LPNs must work under the supervision of a doctor or registered nurse.
On the other hand, a Licensed Practical Nurse is a person who has graduated with a one year Practical Nursing program. While a person needs to pass NCLEX-RN to become RN, a person can become an LPN after passing NCLEX-PN. The RNS can administer medicines, develop and manage nursing plans, assist physicians in examinations and treatments and take independent decisions. In Hierarchy, the RNs are above the LPNs. Another difference that can be noticed between the LPN and the RN is their salaries. The RNs are paid more than the LPNs.
LPN is a Licensed Practical Nurse and RN is a Registered Nurse. The main difference that can be noticed between LPN and RN is in their duties and practice. A registered nurse is one who has graduated with a 4 year nursing program with a Bachelor of Science degree or a 2-year nursing program with an Associate’s Degree. The RNS can administer medicines, develop and manage nursing plans, assist physicians in examinations and treatments and take independent decisions. In Hierarchy, the RNs are above the LPNs. Another difference that can be noticed between the LPN and the RN is their salaries. The RNs are paid more than the LPNs.
RN is the longer of the two and takes 2 years to complete whereas LPN is a one year course. There is also a bachelor’s degree in RN which takes about 4 years to complete. Degree of certification of RN is either an associate’s or a bachelor’s degree of science while that of LPN is a diploma or a certificate. LPN vs RN. Nursing is considered to be one of the noblest professions in the world that gives one an opportunity to be of help to those who need it most on account of ailments and infirmity. LPN and RN are two different degrees that qualify one as a nurse and pursue a career in healthcare industry as a nurse.