The layer of cells at the front of the retina contains the retinal ganglion cells, whose axons pass across the surface of the retina, collect in a bundle at the optic disc, and leave the eye to form the optic nerve. Each eye contains about 125 million rods and cones but only i million ganglion cells.
The retina is approximately 0.5 mm thick and lines the back of the eye. The optic nerve contains the ganglion cell axons running to the brain and, additionally, incoming blood vessels that open into the retina to vascularize the retinal layers and neurons (Fig. 1.1).
The Retina. The retina is a light-sensitive layer at the back of the eye that covers about 65 percent of its interior surface. Photosensitive cells called rods and cones in the retina convert incident light energy into signals that are carried to the brain by the optic nerve.
1 the retina The retina is the inner layer of the eye. 2  It contains the light receptors, the rods and cones (and thus serves as the film of the eye). 3  The retina also has many interneurons that process the signals arising in the rods and cones before passing them back to the brain.
The tier of cells at the back of the retina contains the light receptors, the rods and cones. Rods, which are far more numerous than cones, are responsible for our vision in dim light and are out of commission in bright light.
The receptors are arrayed along the back of the interior of each eye, in the tissue called the retina. There are two types of cells that act as photoreceptors in the eye: ro … ds and cones.
A thin layer (about 0.5 to 0.1mm thick) of light receptor cells covers the inner surface of the choroid. The focused beam of light is absorbed via electrochemical reaction in this pinkish multilayered structure. The human eye contains two kinds of photoreceptor cells; rods and cones.
1 Retina: Layer of tissue on the back portion of the eye that contains cells responsive to light (photoreceptors). 2  Rods: Photoreceptors responsive in low light conditions. 3  Cones: Photoreceptors responsive to color and in br