On average, it takes about one hour for your body to break down one unit of alcohol. However, this can vary, depending on: 1  your weight. 2  whether you're male or female. 3  your age. 4  how quickly or slowly your body turns food into energy (your metabolism). If you have a few drinks during a night out, it can take many hours for the alcohol to leave your body. The alcohol could still be in your blood the next day. This means that if you drive the day after an evening of drinking, you could be over the legal alcohol limit.
Adding up your units. If you drink a large (250ml) glass of wine, your body takes about three hours to break down the alcohol. If you drink one pint of beer, your body takes about two hours to break it down. One pint of strong lager is equivalent to three units, so this will take longer. If you have a few drinks during a night out, it can take many hours for the alcohol to leave your body. The alcohol could still be in your blood the next day. This means that if you drive the day after an evening of drinking, you could be over the legal alcohol limit.
How long does alcohol stay in my system? 0. It takes 11 hours for 3 pints of beer or 3 large glasses of wine to leave your system – so you can still be over the drink drive limit the next day. Alcohol is one of the most predictable chemical reactions for your body.
One unit is the amount found in one 12 oz. beer, one standard shot, or one 6 oz. glass of … wine. Therefore, a 12-pack would take a minimum of 12 to 15 hours to clear your system, depending on how long it took you to drink it. 
By Mark Perry | Alcoholism | Rating: One unit of alcohol is roughly the equivalent of half a beer or most of a small glass of wine. This is the main measurement used for alcohol consumption, and usefully makes it easy to calculate roughly how much alcohol is in your blood at any time. As a general rule, one unit of alcohol takes one hour to leave the blood and two units take two hours etc.
How long does it take alcohol to leave your urine: People metabolize alcohol usually, at the rate of 1/2 to 3/4ounce every hour (which is about half an ounce of one standard drink). This is equal to 4 ounces of wine, 12 ounces of beer, 10 ounces of microbrew. This means, if you have three standard drinks, irrespective of how long it took for you to drink them, it can take three hours for the alcohol to leave your system through urine. • It would take approx 3.33 hours for .05 BAC of alcohol to leave your body. • For .08 BAC of alcohol, which is the legal limit set in United States, it would take approx 5.33 hours for you body to be alcohol free.
An average liver can process approximately 1 unit of alcohol per hour. This means that if you drink 12 units, it'll take you roughly 12 hours to fully sober up. Our calculator uses an average for drinks size and strength to give you a rough time for sobriety. 