Johar Joshanda, aka “the Magic Tea” is my new favourite thing in the entire world. Really. Right this second, it might even be toppling Belle the iPhone off the list. Yes, I like it that much.
a€â,joshanda€ a â an age old medicine for, common cold€˜means a€™. â boiled stuffa stuffâ it is a concentrated drink consisting, of herbs, like, hyssopus, soma. Kapla eucalyptus starch etc it has been Used by People in asia. and africa for centuries
Due to the immense popularity of the Qarshi Johar Joshanda, the manufacturer launched three additional flavors of this herbal tea, these are the Sugar Free, Chocolate and Pure Honey variants. Contents. A full list of ingredients for the Qarshi Johar Joshanda is given further below. Among other things it contains poppy seeds, tea, licorice extracts, peppermint extracts, fennel and eucalyptus. These are the main ingredients that give this herbal tea its flavor and aroma.
Answer. Joshanda is a herbal tea, which can be sourced back to the Unani Tibb (Greek-Arab) era in the 11th century. It was used and still is to this day for its natural medicinal benefits for colds, flus and coughs.
Joshanda is also called as an herbal tea because it is always taken hot, either in a cup of hot water or a cup of tea or milk and which is very useful in the treatment of cough, cold, flu, catarrh, sore throat and the fever associated along with it.
I do believe that herbal medicines are quite effective. The start of Spring every year brings flowers and it also brings the allergy season. a€â,joshanda€ a â an age old medicine for, common cold€˜means a€™. â boiled stuffa stuffâ it is a concentrated drink consisting, of herbs, like, hyssopus, soma. kapla eucalyptus starch etc
Joshanda-An all-season remedial tea of East! Literally the word Joshanda means “essence of a boiled stuff”. The word Joshanda has sprung up as a polyherbal Unani (Greco-Arab) formulation referring to a remedial drink or a decoction of certain herbs taken in conditions of cold, fever, flu and catarrh.