Best Answer: Lighter breeds (Leghorns and Sex-link pullets) will start laying anywhere from 4-6 months. They are bred for a higher rate of production and to reach sexual maturity faster. Medium sized breeds (Rhode Island Reds) will start laying around 6-8 months. Report Abuse. Most breed start to lay around 5-7 months and when do its best to give them laying pellets also depends on breed what color you will get and the size of chickens you have for the egg size.
On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 
Egg production varies with the breed of chicken. In general, chicks start their egg laying at about 5 to 6 months old and reach peak production at about two years.   Egg … laying starts to decline at about three years. As the chicken ages, egg production is less reliable until they stop completely. Silkies start laying (usually) between 7-9 months, which is later than most chickens, I have an 8 month old that hasn't started laying yet, but a plus to that is, the la … ter in life your silkies lay, the more eggs you will get, and the more consistent with laying she will be.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A pullet (young female) starts laying at about 20-24 weeks old. Her first eggs will be small. A hen will lay about 20 dozen (240) eggs in the first year and probably no more than 1000 in her lifetime. When she is molting (losing feathers for new ones) she will lay little or no eggs. 
Introduction. The age at which your hens will begin to lay depends on their breed type. Hybrids are the earliest birds to start laying, starting about 1 month earlier than non-hybrids. Non-hybrids, which include our rare and heritage breeds, typically begin laying about one month later than hybrids. Most of the egg laying hybrids start laying at 4 to 5 months of age. These include Pearl White Leghorns, Black Stars, and Red Stars. Hybrid egg layers are bred by crossing two different lines or breeds. They are known for their excellent productivity and high feed conversion ratio
Typically they start laying around 18 - 22 weeks old, but it depends on the breed, environment & what they are being fed. I think my flock started laying at around 20 weeks last yr. Gosh~ it seemed like waiting forever. The signs that I saw was them doing the submissive squat about 2 weeks before they started to lay. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Most chicken breeds start laying small eggs around 6-7 months of age. They will continue to lay well for about 2 years, then they start to taper off,...might lay 3 eggs a week then 2. Most farm people do not keep laying hens beyond 2-3 years..they go into the pot. Report Abuse. Most breeds start laying about 20-22 weeks and will lay every day or every other day for about 3 years. They will lay after that but not as much. If people arekeeping them for eggs they usually kill them and use them for stewing hens afte
Report Abuse. Usually hens will start to lay at 5-6 months of age. It all depends on there envinorment, health, and breed. Some hens like to lay durring hte day. They like nice soft bedding in a esting box that is approximatly 2 feet off the ground. And in a clean envinorment. Report Abuse. Most breed start to lay around 5-7 months and when do its best to give them laying pellets also depends on breed what color you will get and the size of chickens you have for the egg size.