You can write it off your residence. For an investment property you can depreciate it. I have a tax person due my taxes so I am not exactly sure how or if you actually write off the interest on an investment property. As far as an investment property vs. a second or vacation home banks have stipulation on what qualifies as one, usually it is the distance from the primary residence. Best Answer: The mortgage interest you pay on your primary home and your second home is deductible on Schedule A, line 10. The homes do not have to be a certain distance apart. They can be next to each other, if that's the case. Both mortgages must be in your name.
The house is still considered a personal residence, so you can deduct mortgage interest and property taxes under the standard second-home rules. 2. You rent out the property for 15 days or more, and use it for less than 14 days or 10% of days the home was rented. Current tax laws offer several tax breaks that can help make second-home ownership more affordable. If you already own, or are thinking about purchasing a second home, it will be in your best interest to understand the tax breaks and how they work.
(Unless you use the home for part of the year) See IRS Publication 527 Mortgage interest is deductible on Schedule A, if it applies to your primary residence or second home. Mortgage interest is deductible on Schedule E, if it is rental property. Best Answer: The mortgage interest you pay on your primary home and your second home is deductible on Schedule A, line 10. The homes do not have to be a certain distance apart. They can be next to each other, if that's the case. Both mortgages must be in your name.
Property taxes on second homes are deductible. The IRS lets you write off the property taxes on your second home. However, the way that you use your second home will determine how you write it off. If if is truly a personal residence, which means that you rent it out fewer than 14 days a year, you can write it off with the property taxes on your first house. If not, don't bother writing off your property taxes and just claim your standard deduction. To give you a baseline, the standard deduction in the 2012 tax year is $11,900 for a married couple filing and $5,950 for a single person.
You can also deduct property taxes on your second and, for that matter, as many properties as you own. As with a primary residence, you can't write off expenses such as utilities, maintenance or insurance unless you are able to claim the home-office deduction. 
As long as you use the property as a second home – and not as a rental – you can deduct mortgage interest the same way you would for your primary home. Current tax laws offer several tax breaks that can help make second-home ownership more affordable. If you already own, or are thinking about purchasing a second home, it will be in your best interest to understand the tax breaks and how they work.
Interest Expenses. Paying interest throughout the tax year can have a significant impact on your income taxes. Interest that you can write off includes home mortgage interest, investment interest and mortgage insurance premiums. All home mortgage interest paid on your main or secondary home, including first and second mortgages and home equity loans, are deductible. 
A vacation home can provide you with a number of valuable tax write-offs, even if you don’t write off a primary residence -- perhaps you're renting a home, living with someone else, or you own your home outright. 
If your vacation house is not your primary residence, mortgage interest and property taxes still can be written off, and you still can add the cost of improvements to your basis. But since the capital gains exclusion is limited to your main home, that benefit is not available when you sell. By the way, you can claim only one vacation home. If you own more than that, you can write off property taxes only on the second house. Which property is your main vacation home is your choice, but only property taxes are deductible for the other one. About the Author.