Transfer Photos from PC to iPhone with iTunes. Transferring photos from PC to iPhone with iTunes requires that you have your iPhone attached to your PC using a cable. Then you just launch iTunes and follow the steps below: 1. In your PC, create a folder with the photos you want to transfer. 2. In iTunes, click your device name and switch to the Photos tab in the right panel. 3. Choose the folder you just created. 4. Click the Apply button to start to copy photos from your PC to your iPhone. You just get Wireless Transfer App to help you. It lets you upload photos from PC to iPhone wirelessly and instantly. To transfer photos from PC to iPhone using Wireless Transfer App: 1. Download and install Wireless Transfer App onto your iPhone. 2. Make sure your PC and your iPhone are in the same Wi-Fi network. 3. Run Wireless Transfer App on your iPhone. 4
1 Plug iPhone into computer via the USB cable. iTunes will launch automatically, if not, manually start it on your computer. 2  Click the iPhone icon in iTunes and choose Movies Library in the left sidebar. 3  Then check Sync Movies and click Apply. iTunes will then sync movies to your iPhone. If users don’t want to use iTunes, they are also able to use Dropbox to transfer video from PC to iPhone. Dropbox is a cloud service app, it can be used on various kinds of smartphones and PCs. You can take advantage of Dropbox to transfer videos from PC to iPhone: 1  Install Dropbox on your PC and iPhone. 2  Open Dropbox on your computer and copy the videos into the folder of the app. 3  Tap to start Dropbox on your iPhone, and then you will get the videos within the app
On a Windows PC the easiest way to import videos from your iPhone is to use Windows Explorer (Windows Vista and Window 7) or Scanner and Camera Wizard (Windows XP). But you can use this method to import videos captured using iPhone's built-in camera. You are not allowed to import videos synced from iTunes. Step 1: Connect your iPhone to computer. Wait for the Windows XP Scanner and Camera Wizard to be fully open. Click next button. Step 2: 1  Select the videos that you want to copy to your PC. 2  Click Next.
The only app you need is Wireless Transfer App. To sync videos from computer to iPhone using Wireless Transfer App: 1. Make sure your computer and your iPhone are connected to the same Wi-Fi range. 2. Download and install Wireless Transfer App onto your iPhone. 3. Have Wireless Transfer App running on your iPhone. 4. Open a web browser in your computer (Windows or Mac) and type the http address as exactly shown at the bottom of the welcome screen. 5. Find the Upload Images and Videos button in your web browser. So long as the video files in your computer are compatible with iPhone/iPad, you can move them onto your device for viewing on the go. The common way is to sync the video files to iPhone/iPad with iTunes. This way is very easy yet has some drawbacks. First, you have to connect your device to the computer via cable.
CopyTrans Manager allows you to quickly drag and drop music and videos from PC directly to your iPhone, iPod or iPad. A lightweight iTunes alternative. You can use CopyTrans Manager on multiple PCs to transfer apps and ringtones to iPhone or any other iOS device without the need for iTunes sync. 
1 Install Dropbox on your PC and iPhone. 2  Create an account and then you will get 2GB for free. 3  Open Dropbox on your computer and copy the videos into the folder of the app. 4  Tap to start Dropbox on your iPhone, and then you will get the videos within the app. If users don’t want to use iTunes, they are also able to use Dropbox to transfer video from PC to iPhone. Dropbox is a cloud service app, it can be used on various kinds of smartphones and PCs. You can take advantage of Dropbox to transfer videos from PC to iPhone: 1  Install Dropbox on your PC and iPhone. 2  Open Dropbox on your computer and copy the videos into the folder of the app. 3
Step Two: Connect your iPhone to computer with USB and launch Syncios PC to iPhone Transfer. Step Three: Easy guide on how to transfer apps, images, music from PC to iPhone. Copy Apps: Go to the left panel of Syncios PC to iPhone Transfer, unfold Apps tab, then you will find those options: Install, Uninstall, Backup. It just supports installing local apps in *.IPA format. Note: If you would like to transfer files from your old iPhone to new iPhone directly, you can try this tool Syncios Data Transfer, transferring videos, music, contacts, messages, or other files from one iDevice to another. iPod, iPad, iPhone supported.
When it comes to transferring videos from PC to iPhone, you may first want to try iTunes. iTunes is the only official media player and media library application provided by Apple. People can use this software to manage the libraries of their iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. If users don’t want to use iTunes, they are also able to use Dropbox to transfer video from PC to iPhone. Dropbox is a cloud service app, it can be used on various kinds of smartphones and PCs. You can take advantage of Dropbox to transfer videos from PC to iPhone: 1  Install Dropbox on your PC and iPhone. 2  Open Dropbox on your computer and copy the videos into the folder of the app. 3  Tap to start Dropbox on your iPhone, and then you will get the videos within the app