Interventional cardiologists are doctors who have been trained to perform procedures to treat cardiovascular disease. Interventional cardiologists specialize in angioplasty and stenting to treat cardiovascular disease. By using catheters, interventional cardiologists are able to treat many conditions without open surgery.
You might be referred to an interventional cardiologist for a test called an angiogram, which is used to diagnose blockages in your arteries. If tests reveal a problem, your cardiologist may recommend a procedure such as angioplasty or stenting. A Scripps Health answered. An interventional cardiologist has additional specialized training to perform catheterization and other minimally invasive procedures. These approaches can clear blocked arteries, correct congenital heart abnormalities and repair heart valves.
An interventional cardiologist is a cardiologist who has undertaken specialized training to perform interventional procedures on the heart. Usually this consists of placing stents in the arteries of the heart (coronary arteries) to open up blockages. A Scripps Health answered. An interventional cardiologist has additional specialized training to perform catheterization and other minimally invasive procedures. These approaches can clear blocked arteries, correct congenital heart abnormalities and repair heart valves.
www.scai.org. This website and the information contained herein do not -- and are not intended to -- constitute professional medical services or treatment of any kind. SecondsCount.org content should not be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. This website should be considered as for general informational purposes only. 
An interventional cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in procedures to treat heart and blood vessel conditions. Here are some things an interventional cardiologist may do: 1  Perform cardiac catheterizations. 2  Perform angioplasty or artherectomy procedures. If you have (or have had) a heart or blood vessel problem, you might see a cardiologist regularly, as well as your primary care of family doctor. Here are some things a cardiologist may do: 1  Treat blocked arteries-either the coronary arteries (in your heart).
(0) Comments. Interventional cardiology deals specifically with the catheter-based treatment of heart diseases. Interventional cardiologists are board-certified cardiologists who perform interventional cardiology procedures, most often in a cardiac catheterization lab at a hospital. Dr. Eric Cohen, interventional cardiologist, is the medical director of Peripheral Vascular Intervention at the Heart & Vascular Center of Northern Arizona. Dr. Cohen specializes in vascular care and the treatment of peripheral arterial disease and limb salvage.
Interventional cardiology is a branch of cardiology that deals specifically with the catheter based treatment of structural heart diseases. Andreas Gruentzig is considered the father of interventional cardiology after the development of angioplasty by interventional radiologist Charles Dotter. A large number of procedures can be performed on the heart by catheterization. Surgery of the heart is termed cardiothoracic surgery. Some interventional cardiology procedures are only performed when there is cardiothoracic surgery expertise in the hospital, in case of complications.
An interventional cardiologist is a critical part of the care team that will be with you throughout diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and prevention. Interventional cardiologists work closely with primary care physicians to coordinate patient cardiovascular care. A Scripps Health answered. An interventional cardiologist has additional specialized training to perform catheterization and other minimally invasive procedures. These approaches can clear blocked arteries, correct congenital heart abnormalities and repair heart valves.
Most interventional cardiology procedures are considered to be minimally invasive because they do not require an instrument to enter the body or large incisions -- most incisions are approximately 1 inch. These procedures usually involve the insertion of a catheter (hollow tube) into the femoral artery in the upper leg. Dr. Eric Cohen, interventional cardiologist, is the medical director of Peripheral Vascular Intervention at the Heart & Vascular Center of Northern Arizona. Dr. Cohen specializes in vascular care and the treatment of peripheral arterial disease and limb salvage.