Skin. The skin is the largest organ in the human body. Its main job is to maintain the body's temperature, which means that sweat is created to cool the body, and goosebumps or raised hair occur to trap heat in the body. Along with sweat glands, the skin contains oil glands. 
In the chest cavity, a number of major organs can be found. The heart pumps blood throughout the body, using the circulatory system as a conduit. The lungs intake air and contribute to the oxygenation of blood. They also act as filters, trapping environmental contaminants which might otherwise enter the bloodstream. 
Spleen is the largest lymphatic organ in the human body. Lymphatic or lymphoid organs are the major parts of the immune system of our body. Function of the immune system is to protect the host (i.e. human body) from the invasion of foreign organisms. Organs Of The Body. There are almost 78 organs in a human body which vary according to their sizes, functions or actions. An organ is a collection of millions of cells which group together to perform single functions in a our body.
Organs in the human body: Functions, location, definition of organs. An organ is a structure that contains at least two different types of tissue functioning together for a common purpose. There are many different organs in the body: the liver, kidneys, heart, even your skin is an organ. For example, main tissue in the heart is the myocardium, while sporadic are the nerves, blood, connective etc.. Functionally related organs often cooperate to form whole organ systems. There are 10 major organ systems in the human body. List of Organs in human body: 1  Heart. 2  Brain. 3  Lungs. 4  Liver.
Function: Controls all the other organs of the body and ensures they work together as a team. What Can Go Wrong (Lots!) Strokes: Brain attack, blood flow to the brain is restricted. Mini-Stroke: A 'small' stroke, can indicate something bigger is brewing. Hemorrhage: Bleeding in the brain, most common cause is stroke. The heart is located slightly to the left side of your chest. It is a powerful organ made of cardiac muscle. Unlike other muscle in the body, it never tires. Its function is to pump blood around the body, and to do this is contracts and relaxes about 70 times a minute.
Out of these 78 organs of a male or female body, skin is the largest organ with respect to its size and weight. The major organ in the body of human beings is the brain which is primarily responsible for performing all the functions and actions of the body. Organs Of The Body. There are almost 78 organs in a human body which vary according to their sizes, functions or actions. An organ is a collection of millions of cells which group together to perform single functions in a our body.
Organs. The organs of the body that can be transplanted at the current time are kidneys, heart, lungs, liver, pancreas, and the intestines. Kidney/pancreas transplants, heart/lung transplants, and other combined organ transplants also are performed. 
Description The kidneys are a pair of bean-shaped organs located in the small of the back. Their role is to clean the blood and keep the level of water in the body under control. They draw water and other substances from the blood and dispel any waste products through urine. The heart is located slightly to the left side of your chest. It is a powerful organ made of cardiac muscle. Unlike other muscle in the body, it never tires. Its function is to pump blood around the body, and to do this is contracts and relaxes about 70 times a minute.
Spleen Location. Spleen is the biggest lymphoid organ present in the upper far left portion of the abdomen in the left hypochondrium and is surrounded by peritoneum. Spleen is 1 inch thick, 3 inches broad and 5 inches long. The enlargement of spleen is referred to as splenomegaly