Log on to Facebook to start searching for your friends (see Resources below). Head to the My Friends page. You will see a list of your current friends with a few quick details about them. Click on either the Friend Finder tab or the Search Your Address Book link to import your contacts. Both will take your to a short form asking for your external email address and password. Find Friends on Facebook. Follow the Search link after logging in to Facebook. You will be given the option of searching for people in and out of your network. Enter a name in the Search For box.
Step 2 Sign in to your Facebook account with your personal email address and unique password. Step 3 Look to the upper right hand corner as your home page opens up. A white box with the words search will allow you to type in the name of the person for whom you are searching. Step 4 Type in your friend's name, both first and last ,if possible. Hit Enter.. Step 5 See a list of all the Facebook members with that first and last name. Using the information you know about the person you want to friend, such as network, school or geographic location, scroll through them. Step 6 Click on the blue words Add as friend when you have found the person for whom you are searching
To suggest a friend to someone: 1  Click Friends at the top of your friend's profile. 2  Click Suggest Friends. 3  To find a particular friend, you can type their name in the field or scroll through your complete friends list. 4  Click Suggest Friend next to a friend's name to send a suggestion. To cancel a friend request you've sent: 1  Click at the top of any Facebook page. 2  Click Find Friends. 3  Click View Sent Requests. 4  Hover over Friend Request Sent next to the request you'd like to cancel and select Cancel Request.
Head to the Facebook profile page of the person you want to add to your restricted list. Click on the Friends drop-down box that appears at the bottom right of their cover photo. Select the option Add to another list.. If you select Friends, the people on your restricted list will not see the post. If you choose Public, they will. This is a good method of making sure certain people only see posts you're willing to make public. We have also taken a look at how to completely hide Facebook posts from others.
1. Find the person you want to add. You can use the search bar at the top of the Facebook page to search for anyone that uses Facebook by name or email address. Click on the result to load that person’s timeline. 1  You can also navigate to a person’s timeline by clicking on their name in a post. 1 When you click the Add Friend button, it will change to the Friend Request Sent button. 2  Clicking on this button will open a menu of actions you can take, such as canceling the friend request or suggesting more friends to your new friend. 3  4 Edit step.
You can add friends by importing your contacts. You can also add friends from their profiles: 1  Enter your friend's name or email in the search bar at the top of any Facebook page. 2  Select their name to go to their profile. 3  Click the Add Friend button. To cancel a friend request you've sent: 1  Click at the top of any Facebook page. 2  Click Find Friends. 3  Click View Sent Requests. 4  Hover over Friend Request Sent next to the request you'd like to cancel and select Cancel Request.
By default, anyone on Facebook can add you as a friend. If you’d like to change who can send you friend requests: 1  Click in the top right of any Facebook page and select Settings. 2  Click Privacy in the left column. To cancel a friend request you've sent: 1  Click at the top of any Facebook page. 2  Click Find Friends. 3  Click View Sent Requests. 4  Hover over Friend Request Sent next to the request you'd like to cancel and select Cancel Request.
Click on the Add Friend button. 1  When you click the Add Friend button, it will change to the Friend Request Sent button. 2  Clicking on this button will open a menu of actions you can take, such as canceling the friend request or suggesting more friends to your new friend. 3  4 Edit step. 1 When you click the Add Friend button, it will change to the Friend Request Sent button. 2  Clicking on this button will open a menu of actions you can take, such as canceling the friend request or suggesting more friends to your new friend. 3  4 Edit step.