1 Place desired number of eggs in a regular or mini muffin tin and bake for 30 minutes. 2  Remove eggs from oven and, using a pair of tongs (I like these tongs with rubber tips from OXO), immediately transfer the eggs to an ice water bath. 3  Allow to cool down for at least 10 minutes. Instructions: 1  Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 2  Place desired number of eggs in a regular or mini muffin tin and bake for 30 minutes. 3  Remove eggs from oven and, using a pair of tongs (I like these tongs with rubber tips from OXO), immediately transfer the eggs to an ice water bath. 4  Allow to cool down for at least 10 minutes.
1 Preheat oven to 350°F. 2  In a large bowl, mix together all of the ingredients and stir until well combined. 3  Pour into a lightly oiled muffin tin, and bake for 10-12 minutes, until muffins have cooked and set. 4  Pop out and serve, or refrigerate and reheat to serve. 1 In a large bowl, mix together all of the ingredients and stir until well combined. 2  Pour into a lightly oiled muffin tin, and bake for 10-12 minutes, until muffins have cooked and set. 3
Hard-Boiled. Boiling a lot of eggs at once requires a big pot and attention to the stovetop. Corral them in a muffin tin while they bake in the oven for an easy preparation process. Place 1 whole egg in each tin and bake in a preheated 350 F oven for about 30 minutes. Remove them from the oven and place them into an ice-water bath to cool; then, peel for a quick snack or to use in recipes. Crack an egg into each section and carefully place the eggs in the oven. Bake 11 to 12 minutes for poached eggs that are runny in the center, with a firm white, according to testers at The Kitchn website. For eggs with a firmer yolk, bake them a minute or 2 longer.
1 Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 2  Place desired number of eggs in a regular or mini muffin tin and bake for 30 minutes. 3  Remove eggs from oven and, using a pair of tongs (I like these tongs with rubber tips from OXO), immediately transfer the eggs to an ice water bath. 4  Allow to cool down for at least 10 minutes. Instructions: 1  Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 2  Place desired number of eggs in a regular or mini muffin tin and bake for 30 minutes. 3  Remove eggs from oven and, using a pair of tongs (I like these tongs with rubber tips from OXO), immediately transfer the eggs to an ice water bath. 4  Allow to cool down for at least 10 minutes.
Hard cooking eggs in your oven works well largely because instead of watching over a huge pot of water and using an egg timer you just need to place your eggs in the muffin tin, place them in an oven at around 325 degrees Fahrenheit for 30 minutes, and then put the eggs in ice water for 10 minutes to cool down. 
You’ll need: – One dozen eggs. – Salt + Pepper. Instructions. Preheat the oven to 350. 1. Crack eggs into a lightly greased muffin tin. 2. Sprinkle a bit of salt and pepper onto the eggs. 3. Bake at 350 for fifteen minutes. You can scramble the yolk if you’d like, but we prefer them with the yolk still intact. 