Seismologists use two main devices to measure an earthquake: a seismograph and a seismoscope. The seismograph is an instrument that measures seismic waves caused by an earthquake. The seismograph has three main devices, the Richter Magnitude Scale, the Modified Mercalli Intensity Scale, and the Moment-Magnitude Scale.
Weegy: It is Newton's first law of motion which states that An object at rest will remain at rest unless acted on by an unbalanced force. [ [ An object in motion continues in motion with the same speed and in the same direction unless acted upon by an unbalanced force.This law is often called the law of inertia.
No, not quite. There are two ways in which scientists quantify the size of earthquakes: magnitude and intensity. You have probably heard of the Richter scale which is still used for small earthquakes, but most large earthquakes are now commonly reported using the moment magnitude scale (see below) .
The seismometer detects and measures the earthquake vibrations or shock waves that the seismograph records. The scale used to measure the strength of an earthqauke is most com … monly the Richter Scale. Seismograph and Seismogram its called a Seismograph There are two instruments, which are basically the same thing.
Seismometers-instruments that measure motions of  the ground.   The visual output, either on a monitor or on paper is called a  seismograph   Seismometers are in part used to measure the intensity of  earthquakes. The scale used to measure earthquake intensity is  known as the Modified Mercalli scale.
A seismometer is the scientific instrument used to detect earthquakes. Signals received from seismometers are recorded and this allows scientists to calculate the size (amount of energy released) of an earthquake, that is, its magnitude.
Graduate study, travel, work make me an expert in benthics, European languages, wildlife mapping, world fauna and flora. The strainmeter, by which its seismometer component detects the vibrations or shock waves that its seismograph records, is the scientific instrument that's used to predict and measure earthquakes.