When you e-file and choose to direct deposit your tax refund to your Card, you can have automatic access to your money and shop online and pay bills with your refund. Please use the following simple steps to get both your state and federal tax refund loaded to your Walmart MoneyCard for free.
The best way to check the status of your federal tax refund is to visit the Where’s My Refund page at the IRS website, or, call 1-800-829-1954, or 1-800-829-4477, or 1-800-829-1040 and inquire about your tax return status with an IRS a customer service representative.
Your federal refund will typically be deposited on your card within 21 days after your e-filed return is accepted. If you print and mail your return, you should expect your federal refund in 6 to 8 weeks. To check the status of your federal tax refund, you can do one of the following:
If you e-filed your taxes, you can generally expect your refund within 10-21 days. But the IRS doesn’t guarantee you a timely issue of your refund check or deposit. You can use the IRS Refund Status page to track your refund.
Direct deposit is available for individual income tax returns that are E-filed by an approved tax preparer or an approved on-line service provider. Direct deposit will only be available for the original refund and is not available to taxpayers filing a paper return.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
The refund schedule should be the same if you filed for a tax extension, however, there is no official schedule for tax refunds for amended tax returns. The above list only includes dates for e-filing an original tax return. Amended tax returns are processed manually, and often take 8-12 weeks to process.
1 About 4-5 business days. 2  I filed my State Tax Returns through TurboTax E-File. 3  Federal direct deposit takes about 8 days but state returns can vary from a week to over a month. 4  I'm a Massachusetts resident and it has been close to 30 days and i still have not received the direct deposit.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.