Add the sherry, bring to a boil, and cook until syrupy, about 1 minute. Add the soy sauce, chestnuts, rice, and toasted pine nuts and toss until the rice kernels are evenly coated. Stir in the broth or water and season with salt. Cover and simmer over medium-low heat until the rice is cooked, 20 to 25 minutes.
1 When softened, remove stems and coarsely chop. 2  Drain soaked rice in a sieve and rinse with cold water. 3  Heat oil in a large, heavy pan or stock pot and stir-fry garlic and ginger for several minutes. 4  Add diced sausage and cook for a few minutes. 5  Add drained and rinsed rice, stir and fry
Combine ground pork with 1 tablespoon soy sauce, 1 tablespoon rice wine, sesame oil, 1 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Set aside 20 minutes.Heat wok or large skillet over high heat until hot. Swirl in peanut oil. When it is very hot and smoking slightly, add green onions and ginger and stir-fry 3 minutes.
Rinse the rice in a colander, and then transfer to a medium bowl. Cover with 1 inch of water and let soak at room temperature overnight. Drain thoroughly. Heat a large cast iron skillet over medium heat. Add the pine nuts and toast, stirring, until golden, 3 to 4 minutes.
1 Drain soaked rice in a sieve and rinse with cold water. 2  Heat oil in a large, heavy pan or stock pot and stir-fry garlic and ginger for several minutes. 3  Add diced sausage and cook for a few minutes. 4  Add drained and rinsed rice, stir and fry
Preparation. 1  Cover rice with cold water by 1 inch in a large bowl and soak at least 2 hours. 2  Drain in a sieve and rinse well under cold running water. 3  Soak mushrooms in warm water 30 minutes, then drain, squeezing excess liquid back into bowl, and discard liquid.
1 Cover rice with cold water by 1 inch in a large bowl and soak at least 2 hours. 2  Drain in a sieve and rinse well under cold running water. 3  Soak mushrooms in warm water 30 minutes, then drain, squeezing excess liquid back into bowl, and discard liquid.
1 More soy sauce, rice wine, salt to taste. 2  Place the rice in a large bowl and cover with cool water. 3  Soak the rice overnight, or at least 8 hours. 4  Steam the rice until done. 5  Rinse the hot, cooked rice in a sieve to break up the clumps and cool down the rice.
1 Place the rice in a large bowl and cover with cool water. 2  Soak the rice overnight, or at least 8 hours. 3  Steam the rice until done. 4  Rinse the hot, cooked rice in a sieve to break up the clumps and cool down the rice. 5  Drain the rice thoroughly and place it in a large, clean work bowl.