An Automatic Transmission can be rebuilt in one day, but the average time it takes to rebuild an automatic transmission is three to four days. Time frames for rebuilt transmissions. The transmission shop you choose should be able to give you the average time it takes them to rebuild a transmission. On their written estimate to you for the rebuild cost, the time it should take them to complete the job should be listed as well. It's up to you take make sure though.
Report Abuse. Exactly 6 days, 8 hours, 29 minutes, 11 seconds. Doesn't matter which shop, how busy they are, the type of vehicle, if it is a weekend, or time you dropped it off! Because all shops take exactly 6 days, 8 hours, 29 minutes, 11 seconds. Source(s): Just call and ask for an estimate. 
So how long does it take to rebuild a transmission? Most people need their cars running again as soon as possible. This can depend though, it can be done in as little as one day although the average is usually between three to four days. On average, a transmission repair cost will be around $1,000-$2,000 for lower end repairs and anywhere from $3,000-$4,000 for a complete rebuild. The cost will also depend on what make and model the car is, the type of transmission, and the cost of part
1 If you bring your car into the shop and have them diagnose the transmission problem, remove it, rebuild it and reinstall it, the entire job will usually take an average of four days. 2  Usually each of the 4 steps above won't take a complete day to perform, but most transmission shops schedule only one step per day. The transmission shop you choose should be able to give you the average time it takes them to rebuild a transmission. On their written estimate to you for the rebuild cost, the time it should take them to complete the job should be listed as well. It's up to you take make sure though.
A dealer doing warrantee work on late model transmission would first have to get tranny inspected and work approved by warrantee dept of factory for replacement or repair authorization-this may take a day. I need to get a whole new transmission they started working on it on Tuesday. Its saturday i thought it would be done now. i called on thursday and he said it would be done friday and i didnt get a call and i called today and he said its not done.. does it usually take this long... Update: the car is a 2003 ford focus.
1 Customers can affect how long it takes to rebuild a transmission if they take a long time to make decisions on their transmission repair, or a customer that's hard to reach for approval. 2  If you're wondering why your transmission takes so long to rebuild, than try and remember if you may have cause it to. The transmission shop you choose should be able to give you the average time it takes them to rebuild a transmission. On their written estimate to you for the rebuild cost, the time it should take them to complete the job should be listed as well. It's up to you take make sure though.
1 CostHelper readers report paying $1,200-$4,179 to replace a transmission in a passenger car, at an average cost of $2,324; $1,600-$4,500 to replace a transmission in a pickup truck, for an average $2,792; and $1,700-$6,000 for an SUV or minivan, with an average cost of $3,090. 1 Rebuilding a transmission generally comes with a shorter warranty (30 days to one year), the process can take three to four days (or more), and costs can increase if extensive problems are revealed after the transmission is disassembled.
Rebuild kits aren’t too expensive, but it’s the labor that’s intensive. That’s why the transmission rebuild cost can be so much, anywhere from $3,000 and upwards if you take it to a repair shop! On average, a transmission repair cost will be around $1,000-$2,000 for lower end repairs and anywhere from $3,000-$4,000 for a complete rebuild. The cost will also depend on what make and model the car is, the type of transmission, and the cost of parts.