A withdrawal reflex, also known as a flexor reflex, is a polysynaptic reflex arc. Sensory and motor neurons are part of this reflex, as are association neurons. Pain is the most obvious stimuli that initiates the flexor reflex, as painful stimuli sets the whole reflex into action. A reflex arc is in fact the simplest and most primitive nerve pathway in the human body. A reflex arc is designed to administer unconscious automatic actions which are determined to be protective in nature to keep a body in homeostasis.
The response initiated by the effector organ is known as a reflex action. This is what most people refer to as reflexes. Visceral reflexes (also known as autonomic reflexes) refer to reflexes such as those which affect the gland secretion or smooth muscle of the cardiac system to contract. A reflex arc is in fact the simplest and most primitive nerve pathway in the human body. A reflex arc is designed to administer unconscious automatic actions which are determined to be protective in nature to keep a body in homeostasis.
A spinal reflex is an automatic, rapid response to a stimulus. The action is involuntary and occurs without any involvement of thought or the brain. In humans, this action occurs through a neural pathway called the reflex arc. To allow reflexes to occur very quickly, signals come directly from motor neurons in the spine, instead of being delayed by going through the brain. The arc works as follows: 1.
weak, spontaneous,involuntary actions involving only the spinal cord not the brain are called simple reflexes. for example when a foreign body enters ur nose u sneeze.The mentioned act does not involve any of brain's message but only the spinal cord reacts to the situation.Such reflex is a simple reflex. A reflex is an involuntary action by your body stimulated by something. An example of a simple reflex is the blinking of your eye when something comes near them suddenly ot rapidly. Another example is when the part below your knee is hit, your leg will kick upwards.
Following either Simple Reflex Arc response, or processing by the brain, neural instructions may be sent via a motor neurone to an effector (that is usually a muscle or gland). In this way, the effector is instructed to take action. 
Sequence. In a simple reflex action: stimulus → receptor → sensory neurone → relay neurone → motor neurone → effector. An effector is any part of the body that produces the response. Here are some examples of effectors: 1  a muscle contracting. 2  a gland releasing (secreting) a hormone or other chemical. Reflex actions. When a receptor is stimulated, it sends a signal to the central nervous system, where the brain co-ordinates the response. But sometimes a very quick response is needed, one that does not need the involvement of the brain. This is a reflex action.
When the safety of an organism demands a very quick response, the signals may be passed directly from a sensory neuron, via a relay neurone, to a motor neurone motor: motor neurones carry messages out of the CNS to effector organs for instant, unthinking action. This is a reflex action. A reflex arc is the nerve pathway which makes such a fast, automatic response possible. It does not matter how brainy you are-you will always pull your hand away from a flame without thinking about it. It is in-built, or innate, behaviour, and we all behave in the same way. Simple reflexes produce rapid involuntary responses to a stimulus. This ensures that an animal responds in the way most likely to result in its survival. Examples include: 1  moving towards and finding food.
Best Answer: Stimulus-Receptor-Sensory neurone-Relay neurone-Motor neurone-Effector-Response An example of this would be the knee-jerk reaction, or instantly dropping something that you didn't know was hot. 
A reflex arc is a neural pathway that controls a reflex action. In higher animals, most sensory neurons do not pass directly into the brain, but synapse in the spinal cord. When a reflex arc consists of only two neurons in an animal (one sensory neuron, and one motor neuron), it is defined as monosynaptic. Monosynaptic refers to the presence of a single chemical synapse.
A reflex action, differently known as a reflex, is an involuntary and nearly instantaneous movement in response to a stimulus. Scientific use of the term reflex refers to a behavior that is mediated via the reflex arc; this does not apply to casual uses of the term reflex. 