Alma (/ˈɑːlmə/ AHL-mə) is an English feminine given name, but has historically been used in the masculine form as well, sometimes in the form Almo. The origin of the name is debated, it was reserved as a title for classical goddesses as in the use  alma mater . It gained popularity after the Battle of Alma in the 19th century and appeared as a fashionable name for girls and a popular place name, but it has decreased in appearance in the 20th and 21st centuries. Alma also came in conjunction with many terms related to the circumstances of the war, such as Alma Victoria, Alma Balaklava  and Alma Inkerman . Primarily in West England, many were christened with the name Alma.
Before its modern usage, Alma mater was an honorific title in Latin for various mother goddesses, especially Ceres or Cybele, and later in Catholicism for the Virgin Mary. The Alma Mater statue by Mario Korbel, at the entrance of the University of Havana in Cuba. Alma mater (Latin: alma nourishing/kind, mater mother; pl. [rarely used] almae matres) is an allegorical Latin phrase for a university or college
alma mater. 1. A Latin phrase meaning bountiful mother, used by people to refer to the school or university from which they graduated. 2. The school, university, or college where a person was educated. 
The Latin phrase 'Alma Mater Studiorum', meaning Nourishing Mother of Studies, is the motto of the University of Bologna in Italy and, as can be seen by the picture of the seal of this ancient college, this educational institution was established in 1088. College Alma mater The meaning of the famous Latin phrase Alma mater suggests that the students are fed knowledge and taken care by the school or college. Although the term is popular in the USA Alma mater is rarely used in the UK.
Alma Mater was used in ancient Rome as a title for various mother goddesses, especially Ceres or Cybele, and in Christianity for the Virgin Mary. In the modern language in North America, it is often any school, college, or university at which one has studied, and usually, from which one has graduated. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: alma mater (Noun). A school or college from which an individual has graduated or which they have attended. alma mater (Noun). A school's anthem or song. Origin: for nourishing mother.
Alma mater The popular Latin phrase or expression Alma mater is so familiar that it has become part of our own language. The roots of this famous Latin expression lay with the language of the ancient Romans. The meaning of the expression is Nourishing mother. College Alma mater The meaning of the famous Latin phrase Alma mater suggests that the students are fed knowledge and taken care by the school or college. Although the term is popular in the USA Alma mater is rarely used in the UK.
Meaning of Alma mater The English meaning and translation of this Latin phrase is as follows: Nourishing mother. Definition of Alma mater The meaning and definition of this famous Latin expression relates to the college or school from which an individual has graduated or attended. The term can also refer to the school or college anthem. College Alma mater The meaning of the famous Latin phrase Alma mater suggests that the students are fed knowledge and taken care by the school or college. Although the term is popular in the USA Alma mater is rarely used in the UK.