The Globe Theatre was a theatre in London associated with William Shakespeare. It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son, Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613. A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed in 1642. A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named  Shakespeare's Globe , opened in 1997 approximately 750 feet (230 m) from the site of the original theatre.
The Globe Theatre was a theatre in London, England. The Globe was  built in 1599 using timber from an earlier theatre. It was built by  members of William Shakespeare's play … ing company, the Lord  Chamberlain's Men. There were a few known theatres around, including the Rose Theatre just down the street from the Globe, and the Hope and Swan, also in Southwark. Quite often companies perform … ed in inns and local spaces.
The lease for the land on which the Globe stood was co-owned by Burbage and his brother Robert, and by a group of five actors -- Will Kempe, Augustine Phillips, John Heminge, Thomas Pope, and William Shakespeare. Much of Shakespeare's wealth came from his holdings in the Globe. The Globe Theatre was constructed in 1599, out of timber taken from the Theatre. It stood next to the Rose, on the south side of the Thames, and was the most elaborate and attractive theatre yet built. The Globe was designed and constructed for the Chamberlain's Men by Cuthbert Burbage, son of the Theatre's creator, James Burbag
The Globe Theatre was built between 1597 and 1599 in Southwark on the south bank of London’s River Thames, funded by Richard Burbage and built by carpenter Peter Smith and his workers. Globe Theatre Fact 10. Colour coded flags were used outside the theatre to advertise the type of play to be performed – a red flag for a history play, white for a comedy play and black for a tragedy play.
The first play performed in the Globe Theatre was William Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. To advertise for the play, the Lord Chamberlain's Men used a flag with Hercules carrying a globe on his shoulders. William Shakespeare wrote many plays that were performed by the Lord Chamberlain's Men. When the lease ended on the building where they'd previously performed their plays, the Globe Theatre was constructed to give the Chamberlain's Men a new place to perform their acts.
Description of the Flag. A variety of flags were used at the Globe, and other theatres, in the 16th century London. The type of flag indicated the author of the play being preformed. I thought the flag for Shakespeare's plays was a white elongated, swallow-tailed pennant, bearing a golden yellow swan. Jim Ferrigan, 10 January 2003
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain's Men, and was destr … oyed by fire on 29 June 1613. A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed in 1642. But neither of those theatres is Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. Shakespeare's Globe Theatre was built in 1997 on a site very close to the site of the original Globe, which it imitates in many respects.
The Globe Theatre was a theatre in London, England. The Globe was  built in 1599 using timber from an earlier theatre. It was built by  members of William Shakespeare's play … ing company, the Lord  Chamberlain's Men. The Globe Theatre had a total of about 3, 000  seats standing and sitting. A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed in 1642. But neither of those theatres is Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. Shakespeare's Globe Theatre was built in 1997 on a site very close to the site of the original Globe, which it imitates in many respects.
Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. The Globe was the primary home of Shakespeare's acting company beginning in late 1599, and it is a possibility that As You Like It was written especially for the occasion. On June 29, 1613, during a performance of Henry VIII, a misfired canon ball set the Globe's thatched roof on fire and the whole theatre was consumed. The Globe Theatre was constructed in 1599, out of timber taken from the Theatre. It stood next to the Rose, on the south side of the Thames, and was the most elaborate and attractive theatre yet built. The Globe was designed and constructed for the Chamberlain's Men by Cuthbert Burbage, son of the Theatre's creator, James Burbage