The Maisonneuve fracture (named after a French surgeon) is an injury to the ankle involving both a fracture and a sprain. This can also cause a fracture in the tibia, much lower than the fibula fracture is usually sustained, due to the way in which the harsh force of the blow and subsequent leg twisting runs up the leg at the moment of impact.
The Maisonneuve Fracture of the Fibula K EI T H D OUGLAS M ERRILL, M.D. Nine patients sustained a Maisonneuve fracture of the fibula (MFF), which is a proximal fibula frac-ture associated with an ankle fracture or deltoid ligament tear. Eight were treated with closed re-duction and plaster casts. Number 287 February, 1993 The Maisonneuve Fracture of the Fibula 221 caused by external rotation of the foot with the dorsal ligaments of the syndesmosis in-tact, which is a description of a partial diasta-sis. Pankovich' created the Maisonneuve fracture in anatomic specimens.
Return to Main Menu. Typically, a Maisonneuve fracture involves a fracture of the medial malleolus of the ankle with disruption of the tibiofibular syndesmosis. This results in a fracture of the proximal third of the fibula. The Maisonneuve fracture results from an ankle eversion injury. 1 Hanson JA, Fotoohi M, Wilson AJ: Maisonneuve fracture of the fibula: implications for imaging ankle injury AJR Am J Roentgenol.
Jan, 2009 by in Hot Coding Topics. A maisonneuve fracture is proximal fracture of the fibula resulting from external rotation. It’s named after Jules Germain Francois François (maisonneuve-1809), 1897 A french surgeon who was the first to explain how external rotation fractured. ankles 
Dr Yuranga Weerakkody ◉ et al. Maisonneuve fracture is combination of spiral fracture of the proximal fibula and ankle injury which could manifest by widening of the ankle joint due to distal tibiofibular syndesmosis and/or deltoid ligament disruption, or fracture of the medial malleolus. 
This specific pattern of ankle fracture is now recognized as the Maisonneuve fracture. It is caused by external rotation of the foot relative to the tibia which causes rupture of medial ankle ligament leading to diastasis (separation of tibia and fibula) and energy transfer out of the fibula. 
The Maisonneuve fracture is a spiral fracture of the proximal third of the fibula associated with a tear of the distal tibiofibular syndesmosis and the interosseous membrane. There is an associated fracture of the medial malleolus or rupture of the deep deltoid ligament. This type of injury can be difficult to detect. The Maisonneuve fracture is similar to the Galeazzi fracture in the sense that there is an important ligamentous disruption in association with the fracture. The fracture is named after the surgeon Jules Germain Francois François. maisonneuve