Among the top whiskies sold in the U.S. are such popular Bourbon brands Jim Beam, Maker's Mark and Wild Turkey. For Scotch brands, it includes Johnnie Walker and Dewar's, with other top brands including Jameson Irish Whiskey, Jack Daniel 's Tennessee Whiskey and Crown Royal Canadian whiskey. Local distilleries provide the Dayton region with name recognition, and make interesting places for locals or outsiders to visit.
Glenlivet is one of the best and well known single malt brands of Scotch. It’s the world’s second best selling single malt whiskeys. The brand’s flavors include fruity and creamy with pineapple and hazelnut. It’s good for any occasion but is best known for summertime drinking and enjoyment.
Johnnie Walker. This is by far the most popular Scotch on the market today. As one of the best Scotch brands in the world, it is no wonder the top selling brand. Johnnie walker has it’s origins in Scotland and has been around for 200 years. It was originally known as Walker’s Kilmarnock Whiskey. This Scotch is known for their different labels, each offering a different taste.
Whisky (or whiskey) is a type of distilled alcoholic beverage made from fermented grain mash. Different grains are used for different varieties, including barley, malted barley, rye, malted rye, wheat, and corn.
Top 10 Scotch whisky brands. 1. Glenlivet Scotch Whisky. We wanted to be different and edgy, and not make Glenlivet our number 1 on this best scotch list; but we would be lying to ourseleves and everyone else. This is the best known “best Scotch whiskey” and has been around since the early 1800’s.
Whiskey is best known to hail from America (Tennessee/Kentucky) and Scotland, but in reality whiskey is actually produced in several other places in the world as well. Whiskey is produced in different forms, flavorings the world over.
We name the world’s largest Scotch whisky brands by volume. The number one-selling Scotch whisky in the world will come as no surprise, it being one of the most popular brands drunk in both established and emerging markets alike.