bird cams: discover the puffins of seal island, maine. Atlantic Puffins spend most of their time at sea — coming to land each spring to breed in colonies on northern coastal islands, like Seal Island National Wildlife Refuge in Maine, home to the puffins visible on our live “loafing ledge” cam. 
Two species live in Alaskan waters: the horned puffin (Fratercula corniculata) and the tufted puffin (Fratercula cirrhata). They belong to the family alcidae, which includes auks, auklets, murres, murrelets, and guillemots. Alcids spend most of their lives on the open sea and only visit land to breed in the summer. 
Puffins are any of three small species of alcids (auks) in the bird genus Fratercula with a brightly coloured beak during the breeding season. These are pelagic seabirds that feed primarily by diving in the water. Two species, the tufted puffin and horned puffin, are found in the North Pacific Ocean, while the Atlantic puffin is found in the North Atlantic Ocean. All puffin species have predominantly black or black and white plumage, a stocky build, and large beaks. They shed the colourful outer parts of their bills after the breeding season, leaving a smaller and duller beak. Their short wings are adapted for swimming with a flying technique under
Atlantic Puffin Distribution. For most of the year, Atlantic puffins live on the open ocean, with a range spanning from the eastern coast of Canada and the northern United States to the western coast of Europe and northern Russia. 60% of the world’s puffins live near Iceland. Puffins are specially adapted to living on the open sea.
1 Facts about Atlantic Puffins: 2  Atlantic puffins are birds that live at sea most of their lives. 3  They fly through the air like most birds, but they also fly through the water, using their wings as paddles. 4  As they swim, they use their webbed feet to steer, much as a boat uses a rudder. The breeding ground of about 60 percent of the world's Atlantic puffins is Iceland. Atlantic puffins live only in the North Atlantic Ocean. 1 
Horned and Tufted Puffins in the north west and Atlantic Puffins in the north east. Tufted Puffin can be found along the west coast from California to Alaska. Horned Puffin is mostly in Alaska, rarely south to Washington, Oregon, and California. Atlantic Puffins breed in Newfoundland and Maine mostly, and can be seen further south along the east coast in winter. I've seen all three species.
Best Answer: Atlantic Puffins are found exclusively in the North Atlantic Ocean. They nest from Labrador to the Northeastern United States. In Europe, they nest south to the Brittany Coast of France, northwards to Iceland, Greenland, and Northern Russia. Tufted Puffin can be found along the west coast from California to Alaska. Horned Puffin is mostly in Alaska, rarely south to Washington, Oregon, and California. Atlantic Puffins breed in Newfoundland and Maine mostly, and can be seen further south along the east coast in winter. I've seen all three species.
Atlantic puffins live at sea for nine months of the year and live in puffin colonies the rest of the time. It is widely believed that puffins mate for life although they do not begin the mating process until age five. The Atlantic puffin is only one of three “kinds” of puffins. The horned puffin and the tufted puffin are found in the Pacific Ocean. It is estimated that there are 15 to 20 million pair of puffin in the world. Puffins resemble penguins as their white underbelly contrasts their black coat.
1 Atlantic puffins are birds that live at sea most of their lives. 2  They fly through the air like most birds, but they also fly through the water, using their wings as paddles. 3  As they swim, they use their webbed feet to steer, much as a boat uses a rudder. The breeding ground of about 60 percent of the world's Atlantic puffins is Iceland. Atlantic puffins live only in the North Atlantic Ocean. 1  Facts about Atlantic Puffins: 2 