The baby now measures about 4.3 to 4.6 inches and weighs about 3.5 ounces. You should be able to feel the top of your uterus about 3 inches below your belly button. The baby's eyes can blink and the heart and blood vessels are fully formed. The baby's fingers and toes have fingerprints. Development at 20 Weeks. The baby weighs about 10 ounces and is a little more than 6 inches long. Your uterus should be at the level of your belly button. The baby can suck a thumb, yawn, stretch, and make faces.
You may not only wonder how big your baby is, but also how big your uterus is. Your uterus grows exponentially during pregnancy. Think about blowing up a balloon and that’s basically what your uterus does during pregnancy. Before pregnancy, the uterus is about the size of an orange and is situated deep in the pelvis. 
Development at 36 Weeks. Babies differ in size, depending on many factors, such as gender, the number of babies being carried, and size of the parents. So your baby's overall rate of growth is as important as the actual size. On average, a baby at this stage is about 18.5 inches and weighs close to 6 pounds. Development at 20 Weeks. The baby weighs about 10 ounces and is a little more than 6 inches long. Your uterus should be at the level of your belly button. The baby can suck a thumb, yawn, stretch, and make faces.
The uterus is located inside the pelvis immediately dorsal (and usually somewhat rostral) to the urinary bladder and ventral to the rectum. The human uterus is pear-shaped and about 3 in. (7.6 cm) long, 4.5 cm broad (side to side) and 3.0 cm thick (anteroposterior). A nonpregnant adult uterus weighs about 60 grams. The uterus can be divided anatomically into four segments: The fundus, corpus, cervix and the internal os.
Your pregnancy: 11 weeks. Your baby, just over 1 1/2 inches long and about the size of a fig, is now almost fully formed. Her hands will soon open and cl... Your pregnancy: 5 weeks. Deep in your uterus your embryo is growing at a furious pace. Though he's barely the size of a kumquat-a little over an inch or so long, crown to bottom-and weighs less than a quarter o... Your pregnancy: 12 weeks. Your baby is flexing a little muscle this week. Find out how your baby is developing and learn about pregnancy symptoms at 12 w...
I'm not a physician and can't say anything about your uterus. What I do want to point out is that a centimeter (cm) is 10 millimeters (mm). So the size of my uterus in millimeters (mm) before surgery was 160mm x 110mm x 100mm. The anteroposterior (front-to-back or AP) diameter of my uterus was 100mm. The uterus measures about 7.5 cm. in length, 5 cm. in breadth, at its upper part, and nearly 2.5 cm. in thickness; it weighs from 30 to 40 gm. It is divisible into two portions. On the surface, about midway between the apex and base.
Size after Puberty. The normal length is about 7.6 cm and width is 4.5 cm. The average normal thickness is 3.0 cm and in an adult female, the uterus weights about 60 grams but ranges up to 200 grams depending on various conditions. A variety of factors can result in enlargement of the uterus. The prepubertal uterus is about 3.5 cm in length and thickness is on average 1 cm. Hormonal stimulation that occurs during puberty will result in rapid growth and changes in the size of the uterus. The normal length is about 7.6 cm and width is 4.5 cm.
From conception to delivery, a woman's uterus can grow from the size of a pear to the size of a watermelon. But pregnancy isn't the only potential reason for an enlarged uterus. An enlarged uterus is common and can be a symptom of a variety of medical conditions, some of which require treatment. 
Your pregnancy: 10 weeks. Though he's barely the size of a kumquat-a little over an inch or so long, crown to bottom-and weighs less than a quarter o... Your pregnancy: 12 weeks. Your baby is flexing a little muscle this week. Find out how your baby is developing and learn about pregnancy symptoms at 12 w... Your pregnancy: 11 weeks. Your baby, just over 1 1/2 inches long and about the size of a fig, is now almost fully formed. Her hands will soon open and cl... Your pregnancy: 7 weeks. Your baby's now the size of a blueberry and forming hands and feet. 