How to become a Paleontologist. Paleontologists study and research forms of life from prehistoric or geologic times; they perform these studies through the examination of fossils of plants, animals and other organisms. Most entry-level positions in paleontology require a master's degree in geology or earth science. There are a few positions that will accept a bachelor's degree in these fields of study for such entry level positions. According to the US Department of Labor the top three paying areas for Paleontologist are Midland, TX with a median salary of $128,040, Lafayette, LA with a median salary of $124,200 and Huston-Sugarland-Baytown, TX with a median salary of $117,000.
To become a paleontologist, college students need to first follow the undergraduate course of study recommended by the geology departments in their colleges and universities. In their undergraduate program, they will need to have a concentration in life sciences, as well as geology. A paleontologist is a scientist who studies the history of life on Earth through the fossil record. Fossils are the evidence of past life on the planet and can include those formed from animal bodies or their imprints (body fossils).
Paleontologist Salary Alberta: According to the 2011 Alberta Wage and Salary Survey, Albertans in the Geologists, Geochemists and Geophysicists occupational group, which includes Paleontologists, earned on average from $40.80 to $60.85 an hour, with a mean wage of $50.48 per hour. If you want to become a paleontologist, you first need to determine if this career path is a good fit for you.
Paleontology is a science that examines the development and extinction of prehistoric life. Read about the educational requirements and employment options for paleontologists here, including what types of courses you'll take and how much you can earn in the field. 
Plant life is just as important as animal life to paleontologists. They may discover fossils of plants that are long extinct but which explain key changes in animal populations, such as the extinction of a certain species or the explosion in the population of another species. The University of Kansas says there are no dedicated undergraduate paleontology degrees in the country; students who study the discipline typically major in geology or biology while taking courses in paleontology. Those interested in becoming paleontologists will need to complete a master's or doctoral degree.
This field fall under the area of a geoscientist. A master's degree is the primary educational requirement for most entry-level positions. A Ph.D. is necessary for most high-level research and college teaching positions, but a master's degree is preferred for most other geoscience jobs. Education and training. A bachelor's degree is adequate for a few entry-level positions, but most geoscientists need a master's degree in geology or earth science. Teacher education programs are accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education and the Teacher Education Accreditation Council. Graduation from an accredited program is not necessary to become a teacher, but it may make fulfilling licensure requirements easier.
Below we've outlined what you'll need to begin a career as a paleontologist. We've also included helpful information for this career, such as job description, job duties, salary expectations, a list of possible employers and much more! If you want to become a paleontologist, you first need to determine if this career path is a good fit for you.
If the following description sounds like you, then you’re probably well suited for a career as a paleontologist: Those who become paleontologists must have a passion for understanding the history of life on earth. They must be interested in working in the field, and have a strong aptitude for the natural sciences. If you want to become a paleontologist, you first need to determine if this career path is a good fit for you.
Paleontology is the study of the history of life on Earth. It is studied in the form of fossil records. Fossils are the traces of ancient plants, animals, fungi, and other organisms that are preserved in rocks and the surface of the Earth. Paleontologists have diverse tasks as part of their routine work. The minimum requirement for professional paleontology work is a four-year undergraduate program and a Master of Science degree. Most paleontologists have doctoral degrees in which they complete original research in a particular specialty.
Paleontologist Requirements. A Paleontologist is a professional who works closely with the crime department in nabbing the culprits by tracing and studying the pollen evidences. Pollen evidence can be a mud sample from the boots or the mark of a tree branch on the shirt. Education Requirements: 1  A high school degree in the science stream with biology as one of the core subjects. 2  The candidate must be a bachelor of science in botany or in ecological sciences. 3  A master’s degree in ecological sciences from a reputed university or college is highly sought.