1 See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 2  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 3  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 4  Send: E-mail your color to others. 5  Print: Print your color. 1 Goes Great With: See colors that combine well with your chosen color. 2  More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 3  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 4  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen.
Graphite is a type of mineral which is most known for its use in pencils. Graphite is carbon arranged in a very different way to how it is arranged in diamond. There is not an atom called a graphite atom. Graphite, a natural mineral, is a form (allotrope) of the element carbon, and it is composed of carbon atoms. But graphite is not … the only allotrope of carbon. There are also diamonds and amorphous carbon
Graphite is a dark gray to black, very soft, shiny metallic mineral with a distinctive greasy feeling. One of the Earth’s softest minerals, graphite will easily leave marks on paper, which is why it is used for fine artist pencils. Even modern pencil ‘lead’ is composed of graphite mixed with clay. 
1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 5  Send: E-mail your color to others. 6  Print: Print your color. 1 Goes Great With: See colors that combine well with your chosen color. 2  More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 3  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 4  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen.
Available in a variety of rich, dense colors, Derwent XL Graphite Blocks can be used for everything from sensitive line work and subtle blending to expressive marks and deep tonal work. Create different marks with the sides, edges, and corners — or use an embossing tool to create lines and add texture. 
Graphite /ˈɡraefaɪt/ , ˈɡræfaɪt archaically referred to As, plumbago is a crystalline form of, carbon a, semimetal a native element, mineral and one of the allotropes of. carbon Graphite is the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions. Therefore, it is used in thermochemistry as the standard state for defining the heat of formation of carbon compounds.
Graphite is a mineral composed exclusively of the element carbon. Graphite has the same chemical composition as Diamond, which is also pure carbon, but the molecular structure of Graphite and Diamond is entirely different. This causes almost opposite characteristics in their physical properties. Graphite is rather common mineral, but fine crystals are rare. Most Graphite mining areas produce enormous quantities from a single or several large Graphite vein s, but collector specimens in good crystals are not commonly encountered