Dr. Jonathan Fox Diseases caused by bacteria Clostridial diseases: Botulism and tetanus are neurologic diseases caused by the exotoxins of Clostridium botulinum and Clostridium tetani, respectively. Both diseases occur in horses, ruminants and other species including man. Clostridium bacteria are anaerobic, meaning that they require low oxygen levels to grow and produce toxins. Tetanus: Symptoms: The word tetanus describes the main symptom of this disease. Tetanus means prolonged contraction of skeletal muscle. Muscles that extend the limbs are affected the most.
Petek, 11 Februar 2011 07:47 | Prispeval Ester Lovšin Barle | | |. Tetanus is a highly fatal disease of humans. Mortality rates reported vary from 40% to 78%. The disease stems from a potent neurotoxin (tetanus toxin or tetanospasmin). Clostridium tetani is found in soil, especially heavily-manured soils, and in the intestinal tracts and feces of various animals. The toxin is produced during cell growth, sporulation and lysis. 
Tetanus is an infection caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani. Tetanus bacteria are everywhere in the environment, including soil, dust and manure. 
Botulism and tetanus CL ThwaitesAbstract Botulism and tetanus are diseases caused by neurotoxins produced byClostridium botulinum and Clostridium tetani respectively. Keywords botulism; Clostridium botulinum; Clostridium tetani; tetanus BotulismDeﬁnitionBotulism is characterized by a descending ﬂaccid paralysis.Several forms of botulism are recognized depending onaetiology.EpidemiologyFood-borne botulism occurs after ingestion of food contaminatedwith botulinum toxin.
1. Wound botulism occurs after a wound is contaminated with Clostridium botulinum spores. In anaerobic conditions of the wound, spores germinate and bacteria multiply releasing botulinum toxin. Infantile botulism is a result of colonization of the infant's colon by C. botulinum. In botulism a descending flaccid paralysis occurs whereas in tetanus generalized muscle spasms develop. Autonomic nervous system dysfunction may occur in either disease and in tetanus cardiovascular parameters may fluctuate widely.
Wound botulism occurs after a wound is contaminated with Clostridium botulinum spores. In anaerobic conditions of the wound, spores germinate and bacteria multiply releasing botulinum toxin. Infantile botulism is a result of colonization of the infant's colon by C. botulinum. In botulism a descending flaccid paralysis occurs whereas in tetanus generalized muscle spasms develop. Autonomic nervous system dysfunction may occur in either disease and in tetanus cardiovascular parameters may fluctuate widely.
The bacteria and the toxins they produce are closely related. Both diseases are rare in the UK and the developed world but tetanus in particular is a major cause of death in the developing world causing between 200,000 and 300,000 deaths each year. In botulism a descending flaccid paralysis occurs whereas in tetanus generalized muscle spasms develop. Autonomic nervous system dysfunction may occur in either disease and in tetanus cardiovascular parameters may fluctuate widely.
Abstract. Botulism and tetanus are diseases caused by neurotoxins produced by Clostridium botulinum and Clostridium tetani respectively. The bacteria and the toxins they produce are closely related. Both diseases are rare in the UK and the developed world but tetanus in particular is a major cause of death in the developing world causing between 200,000 and 300,000 deaths each year. In botulism a descending flaccid paralysis occurs whereas in tetanus generalized muscle spasms develop. Autonomic nervous system dysfunction may occur in either disease and in tetanus cardiovascular parameters may fluctuate widely.
Botulism and tetanus are diseases caused by neurotoxins produced by Clostridium botulinum and Clostridium tetani respectively. In botulism a descending flaccid paralysis occurs whereas in tetanus generalized muscle spasms develop. Autonomic nervous system dysfunction may occur in either disease and in tetanus cardiovascular parameters may fluctuate widely.