Qualifications for a Real Estate Sales Associate: Successfully complete a Commission-approved pre-licensing course for sales associates (Course I) consisting of 63 hours and covering the topics required by the Florida Real Estate Commission (FREC) . Pass the Florida real estate broker examination with a grade of at least 75. Submit a completed Form RE-11 to the Division of Real Estate to activate the license; otherwise the license is issued in an inactive status.
1 Submit a completed application, electronic fingerprints, and appropriate fee. 2  Pass the Florida Real Estate Sales Associate Examination with a grade of at least 75 or pass the Florida Real Estate Law Exam with a grade of at least 30. 3  Activate the license, otherwise the license is issued in an inactive status. 1 NOTE: If the applicant holds a Florida real estate sales associate license (s)he must fulfill the sales associate post-licensing education requirement before being eligible to obtain a broker license.
It will cost $69 for Sales Associates and $77 for Brokers to renew your license on the DBPR website-www.myfloridalicense.com. How do I renew my license once I have completed the Post-License Education? Larson Educational Services is required to notify the DBPR within 30 days of course completion. Anybody who obtains a Florida Real Estate Broker License must also complete 60 Hours of post-licensing education. The education must be completed prior to your first license renewal date.
1 Pass the Florida Real Estate Sales Associate Examination with a grade of at least 75 or pass the Florida Real Estate Law Exam with a grade of at least 30. 2  Activate the license, otherwise the license is issued in an inactive status. 1 NOTE: If the applicant holds a Florida real estate sales associate license (s)he must fulfill the sales associate post-licensing education requirement before being eligible to obtain a broker license.
Author: Edward O'Donnell. The Florida Real Estate Commission reduced application and renewal fees for brokers, sales associates, instructors, and schools effective July 1, 2014. Sales associates now pay a renewal fee of $64; brokers pay $72. This is a significant reduction (about 28%). The full list is shown in the table below: 61J2-1.011 License Fees and Examination Fees.
1 If the applicant is claiming experience from a jurisdiction other than Florida, attach to the application a current certification of real estate license history (not more than 30 days old) from the licensing agency of that jurisdiction. 1 NOTE: If the applicant holds a Florida real estate sales associate license (s)he must fulfill the sales associate post-licensing education requirement before being eligible to obtain a broker license.
Real estate license renewal information. To maintain your real estate license, all licensees must comply with post-licensing or continuing education requirements and pay the necessary renewal fees. This also applies to those licensees with a suspended license. All course providers are required to report your education completion to the department within 30 days of completion, or prior to the expiration date, whichever occurs first. If your required education is not complete and/or reported, you will NOT be able to renew your license.
It will cost $69 for Sales Associates and $77 for Brokers to renew your license on the DBPR website-www.myfloridalicense.com. Larson Educational Services is required to notify the DBPR within 30 days of course completion. Anybody who obtains a Florida Real Estate Broker License must also complete 60 Hours of post-licensing education. The education must be completed prior to your first license renewal date.
As an active Florida attorney in good standing with the Florida Bar, you are exempt from completing the 63-Hours of Florida Real Estate Sales Associate Licensing, but you are required to complete 45-hours of post-license education before your first license renewal. Anybody who obtains a Florida Real Estate Broker License must also complete 60 Hours of post-licensing education. The education must be completed prior to your first license renewal date.