Applications. Fibersol-2 AG digestion resistant maltodextrin has been specially designed for applications in which rapid dispersion and quick dissolution are key for final product success. Fibersol-2 AG is an agglomerated form of digestion resistant maltodextrin and is ideal in specialized applications. 1  Applications where a low bulk density is needed. 2  Instant hand stir-in or shake beverages where Fibersol-2 AG is the primary dry ingredient
Fibersol-2 digestion resist-ant maltodextrin functions for formulators too! Fibersol-2 digestion resistant maltodextrin is multi-functional and can be used in countless applications,so it’s perfect for formulators, as well as consumers. Inaddition to rapid dispersion, this ﬁber is clear or trans-parent in solution, highly soluble, and stable undervirtually all conditions. 
Fibersol-2 is digestive resistant maltodextrin. Fibersol-2 is a soluble fiber that easily dissolves in water, is almost tasteless, and is not affected by heat (so it can be used for cooking). Fibersol-2 is included in many foods, drinks, meal replacement powders and weight gainer powders as a source of soluble fiber. It is also sold in fiber drink mixes either alone or in a blend along with other sources of fiber.
Fibersol ® -2 digestion resistant maltodextrin analytically meets the definition of dietary fiber for nutrition labeling purposes, as published by the American Association of Cereal Chemists (AACC). Soluble Dietary Fiber: Fibersol ® -2 is a 90% minimum dry solids basis soluble dietary fiber (in accordance with AOAC method #2001.03) and one of the most economical fiber sources available.
Even at significant levels, Fibersol ® -2 doesn’t affect taste or viscosity. Fibersol ® -2, digestion resistant maltodextrin, is a spray-dried powder produced by a proprietary method of controlled enzymatic hydrolysis of cornstarch. Soluble Dietary Fiber: Fibersol ® -2 is a 90% minimum dry solids basis soluble dietary fiber (in accordance with AOAC method #2001.03) and one of the most economical fiber sources available.
Fibersol-2. Fibersol®-2 digestion-resistant maltodextrin is a soluble corn fiber that acts as a low-calorie bulking agent containing 90 percent dietary fiber. It can be used with minimal formulation adjustments in a variety of food applications to maintain or improve a product’s desired attributes. Fibersol®-2, digestion resistant maltodextrin, is a spray-dried powder produced by a proprietary method of controlled enzymatic hydrolysis of cornstarch. It has numerous starch linkages that remain undigested by enzymes of the human digestive tract.
Fibersol ® -2 digestion-resistant maltodextrin is a soluble corn fiber that acts as a low-calorie bulking agent containing 90 percent dietary fiber. It can be used with minimal formulation adjustments in a variety of food applications to maintain or improve a product’s desired attributes. Soluble Dietary Fiber: Fibersol ® -2 is a 90% minimum dry solids basis soluble dietary fiber (in accordance with AOAC method #2001.03) and one of the most economical fiber sources available.
Fibersol-2, digestion resistant maltodextrin, is produced by a proprietary process to purposefully rearrange corn starch molecules to convert a portion of normal alpha 1,4glucose linkages to random 1,2-, 1,3-, and 1,4- alpha and beta linkages. The human digestive system effectively digests only alpha 1,4 linkage. As a water-soluble fiber, Fibersol-2 can effectively promote the growth of a variety of beneficial bacteria (naturally occurring or ingested as pro-biotics) in the colon. In promoting the growth of beneficial bacteria, Fibersol-2 indirectly reduces the presence of undesirable bacterial species.