2. What is Hepatitis B. Hepatitis B is caused by the hepatitis B virus, the virus is very common in Asia, China, Philippines, China, Africa and the Middle east. In Europe and North America the incidence of known carriers is about 1 in a 1000 people.
Hepadnaviruses, including human hepatitis B virus (HBV), replicate through reverse transcription of an RNA intermediate, the pregenomic RNA (pgRNA). Despite this kinship to retroviruses, there are fundamental differences beyond the fact that hepadnavirions contain DNA instead of RNA.
Hepatitis B virus replication. Beck J(1), Nassal M. Author information: (1)Department of Internal Medicine II/Molecular Biology, University Hospital Freiburg, Hugstetter Street 55, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany.
The incubation of the Hepatitis B Virus (hepatitis B) is about 6 to 25 weeks (i.e. before physical and generally detectable histological or physical symptoms occur) however there are several biochemical and histological changes that occur in stages after infection with the hepatitis B virus.
The name is based on hepato (liver) tropic (replicates and causes infection in the liver) and DNA virus (its nucleic acid). The Hepadna virus family has the smallest genome of all replication competent animal DNA viruses. The single most important member of the family is Hepatitis B virus (HBV) .
The hepatitis B virus life cycle The HBV virion binds to a receptor at the surface of the hepatocyte. A number of candidate receptors have been identified, including the transferrin receptor, the asialoglycoprotien receptor molecule, and human liver endonexin.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is an infection that can cause severe liver damage, sometimes resulting in death. Hepatitis B is very common around the world, particularly in Africa, the Indian sub-continent and throughout the rest of Asia.
The Hepatitis B Virus. The Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a mostly double-stranded DNA virus in the Hepadnaviridae family. One of five hepatitis viruses, HBV causes acute and chronic hepatitis in humans.