For baby food, the foods generally recommend 3 days to use up the food. We generally use 1 week at most to keep left overs. It seems like cheese can keep for a while-so I didn't know if I could keep Mac-n-cheese longer. answers from Dallas on. Like you, I believe up to a week is fine. We eat things out of the fridge up to a week later on a regular basis and none of us have ever gotten sick. 2 weeks is a little on the long side. Plus, mac n cheese is cheap anyway. I would throw it out
Dr. Gourmet Says... You should be safe to keep your baked Macaroni and Cheese in a tightly covered container in the refrigerator for about 48 to 72 hours. Let it cool, uncovered, for about 10 or 15 minutes before covering it and putting it in the fridge. It will be safe to keep it frozen for about 2 months. I like to use freezer bags and divide meals like this into portions before freezing so that I can pull out what I need later. Thanks for writing,
How long can you leave a mcdonalds cheese burger in the fridge for? No more than 2 days, they can be frozen and will last up to 3 months. 
RE: How long can I store Mac &#39;n&#39; Cheese in the fridge? I cooked an entire box of Barillo elbow pasta. It&#39;s too much for me and the other person I share with to eat in 1-2 days. Based on the typical household refrigerator: If you place the Mac&Cheeze in a air-tight plastic container -- 3 days at a constant temperature of between 37 to 41 degree F. If you have a Sub-Zero or a Top-of-the line Kitchen Aide refrigerator ($6,000 +), you can push it to 5 days.
Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge.
How long is it safe to keep cooked macaroni (sp?) and cheese in the refrigerator? We've had some for 2 weeks-and it looks and smells ok-but I know that is not the best indicator. answers from Dallas on. Like you, I believe up to a week is fine. We eat things out of the fridge up to a week later on a regular basis and none of us have ever gotten sick. 2 weeks is a little on the long side. Plus, mac n cheese is cheap anyway. I would throw it out
my understanding is that raw, cracked eggs last about 2-4 days in the fridge. So you're on the outside of that window. I'm not sure exactly how you're preparing your mac and cheese ahead of time and I think that will impact how long they will keep as well. 