Sudden unexplained bruising or blood spots under the skin or a sudden increase in the frequency of bruising may be caused by: 1  A medicine, such as aspirin or blood thinners (anticoagulants). 2  Infection that causes the buildup of toxin in the blood or tissues (sepsis). Bruises develop when small blood vessels under the skin tear or rupture, most often from a bump or fall. Blood leaks into tissues under the skin and causes the black-and-blue color.
Easy bruising sometimes indicates a serious underlying condition, such as a blood-clotting problem or a blood disease. Consult your doctor if you: 1  Have frequent, large bruises, especially if your bruises appear on your trunk, back or face, or seem to develop for no known reasons. 1 Have frequent, large bruises, especially if your bruises appear on your trunk, back or face, or seem to develop for no known reasons. 2  Have easy bruising and a history of significant bleeding, such as during a surgical procedure. 3  Suddenly begin bruising, especially if you recently started a new medication.
Purpura. Purpura is caused by spontaneous leaking of blood from tiny blood vessels (capillaries). It is a type of bruising that causes purple or red flat spots or patches on the skin and mucus membranes. Purpura that results in tiny spots on the skin is called petechiae. Bruising is a very general term for a condition in which blood leaks out of the blood vessels into the tissues of the skin, mucus membranes or other organs, including muscles and bones. Different types of bruises include contusions, hematomas and purpura.
Blood disorders such as hemophilia and leukemia can cause unexplained bruising, often because your blood fails to clot properly. If you have severe and frequent unexplained bruising, it's a good idea to see a physician to rule out such disorders, especially if it seemed to come on suddenly. By Dr. Mercola. Any type of traumatic injury, such as a fall, can cause capillaries (small blood vessels) near your skin's surface to break and leak red blood cells. This causes the reddish-purple or black and blue appearance of bruises on your skin.
Bruises develop when small blood vessels under the skin tear or rupture, most often from a bump or fall. Blood leaks into tissues under the skin and causes the black-and-blue color. As bruises (contusions) heal, usually within 2 to 4 weeks, they often turn colors, including purplish black, reddish blue, or yellowish green. Sometimes the area of the bruise spreads down the body in the direction of gravity.
Platelet disorders first cause small red or purple dots on the skin. Later, if the disorder becomes severe, bleeding may occur. A decrease in blood clotting factors usually causes bleeding and bruising. Defects in blood vessels usually cause red or purple spots and patches on the skin, rather than bleeding. 
Sudden unexplained bruising or blood spots under the skin or a sudden increase in the frequency of bruising may be caused by: 1  A medicine, such as aspirin or blood thinners (anticoagulants). 2  Infection that causes the buildup of toxin in the blood or tissues (sepsis). Bruises. Bruises develop when small blood vessels under the skin tear or rupture, most often from a bump or fall. Blood leaks into tissues under the skin and causes the black-and-blue color.
Easy bruising can occur when the blood vessels are weakened by diseases (such as scurvy), medications (such as aspirin, prednisone, and prednisolone), and aging. Easy bruising can also occur because of absent or deficient blood-clotting elements. A bruise is a traumatic injury of the soft tissues that results in breakage of the local capillaries and leakage of red blood cells. In the skin, bruising can be seen as a reddish-purple discoloration that does not blanch when pressed upon.