Dairy products are a rich source of calcium. If dairy products are not included in your diet, adequate amounts of calcium can be obtained from plant foods. Here is a list of vegetarian-friendly sources of calcium: 1  Low-fat or fat-free milk, yogurt and cheese. 2  Fortified soymilk or rice milk.
A meatless diet can be healthy, but vegetarians -- especially vegans -- need to make sure they're getting enough vitamin B12, calcium, iron, and zinc. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics warns of the risk of vitamin B12 deficiencies in vegetarians and vegans. Vitamin B12 is found naturally only in animal products.
Summary: Calcium, needed for strong bones, is found in dark green leafy vegetables, tofu made with calcium sulfate, calcium-fortified soy milk and orange juice, and many other foods commonly eaten by vegans.
Calcium is prevalent in the plant kingdom, although it’s certainly possible for vegans to develop a deficiency on an improperly planned diet. Leafy green vegetables are excellent sources of calcium, but keep in mind that oxalates found in spinach, Swiss chard, and beet greens can inhibit absorption.
Non-vegans get most of their calcium from dairy foods (milk, cheese and yogurt), but vegans can get it from other foods. Good sources of calcium for vegans include: 1  fortified soya, rice and oat drinks. 2  calcium-set tofu. 3  sesame seeds and tahini.
Vegans should eat foods that are high in calcium and/or use a calcium supplement. Our bones contain large amounts of calcium, which helps to make them firm and rigid. Calcium is also needed for other tasks including nerve and muscle function and blood clotting.
Our Vegan Food Guide indicates good sources of calcium from several food groups. By choosing the suggested number of servings of calcium-rich foods daily, vegans should meet calcium needs. Table 2 shows several menus that contain more than 1000 mg of calcium.
However, other excellent sources of calcium exist. Sources of well-absorbed calcium for vegans include calcium-fortified soy milk and juice, calcium-set tofu, soybeans and soynuts, bok choy, broccoli, collards, Chinese cabbage, kale, mustard greens, and okra.