Cosmetic electrotherapy is a range of beauty treatments that uses low electric currents passed through the skin to produce several therapeutic effects such as muscle toning in the body and micro-lifting of the face. 
Electrotherapy is the use of electrical energy currents for medical treatment. It was first pioneered in the mid 1800’s when medical professionals noticed that electric currents could be used to stimulate muscle contractions. Today, electrotherapy is used primarily for physical rehabilitation. 
A TENS Unit is one of several kinds of electrotherapy devices that use very small doses of electric current to promote natural pain relief. The word TENS, sometimes abbreviated as T.E.N.S., stands for Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulator. 
Electrotherapy is a medical technique in which an electric current is used to perform a wide variety of tasks associated with pain, neurological disorders, muscle-related conditions, and drug delivery. Electrotherapy includes a range of medical techniques, some of which are under much debate and criticism. In electrotherapy, an electric current is applied directly to a muscle or tissue in order to stimulate a body part that trauma or natural conditioning weakened. Electrotherapy uses either alternating or direct current to rejuvinate a muscle, although alternating current is generally the preferred option
Check Electrotherapy. The name may be scary, but electrical stimulation works well for some types of nerve pain. Treatments range from electrotherapy you can do at home to surgical procedures. Learn more about the approach and how it can help. When you feel nerve pain, an electrical signal is sent from a damaged nerve to your brain. Electrical stimulation for nerve pain works by sending out its own electrical impulses. These charges seem to interrupt or block the pain signals, reducing the pain you feel. Ask your doctor if electrotherapy might help you.
Electrotherapy is the use of electrical energy as a medical treatment. In medicine, the term electrotherapy can apply to a variety of treatments, including the use of electrical devices such as deep brain stimulators for neurological disease. 
Electrotherapy (and more specifically Interferential-IF-Stimulation) has three major clinical benefits: the reduction of pain, the stimulation of healing and the reduction in recovery time. Pain reduction occurs because the applied electrical fields act to close the body's pain gate mechanism. In addition, electrical stimulation causes the body to produce more endorphins -- pain reducing chemicals made naturally by the body. Interferential Stimulation also activates the body's motor nerves. This results in increased blood flow and reduced edema (excess fluid). Electrotherapy is safe and comfortable.
Scientific theory suggests TENS can work in several ways, including: the pulses can block the pain message from reaching the brain, the stimulation triggers the body to produce more endorphins (a natural pain killer) or the therapy improves blood circulation. Yes, TENS has been prescribed and used for more than 30 years by medical professionals such as physicians, physical therapists and chiropractors as an effective pain relief solution. Omron Electrotherapy for Pain Relief is FDA cleared. Omron Electrotherapy is available over the counter without a prescription.
Omron Electrotherapy TENS units are a simple, drug-free solution for relief of muscle and joint pain. Under your personalized control, our line of portable TENS units deliver gentle massage-like pulses, providing on the spot pain relief. Yes, TENS has been prescribed and used for more than 30 years by medical professionals such as physicians, physical therapists and chiropractors as an effective pain relief solution. Omron Electrotherapy for Pain Relief is FDA cleared. Omron Electrotherapy is available over the counter without a prescription.