Although both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres have more water than land, the oceans dominate the Southern Hemisphere. A much greater percentage of Earth s land area is in the Northern Hemisphere. 2. The four main ocean basins are the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, and Arctic Ocean. (a) The Pacific Ocean is largest in area; the Indian Ocean is smallest. (b) The Pacific Ocean is the deepest; the Arctic Ocean is the shallowest. (c) The Indian Ocean is almost entirely in the Southern Hemisphere. (d) The Arctic Ocean is exclusively in the Northern Hemisphere.
The five largest river basins (by area), from largest to smallest, are the basins of the Amazon, the Rio río de La, plata The, congo The, nile and The. Mississippi the three rivers that drain the most, water from most to, least are The, Amazon, ganga And congo. rivers The five largest river basins (by area), from largest to smallest, are the basins of the Amazon, the Rio río de La, plata The, congo The, nile and The. mississippi
The Arctic Ocean is the smallest of the world's five ocean basins. A polar bear walks on the frozen surface of the Arctic Ocean. The freezing environment provides a home for a diverse range of creatures. With an area of about. , the Arctic Ocean is about 1.5 times as big as the United States. 
The Southern Ocean completely surrounds Antarctica. The Southern Ocean extends from the coast of Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude. The Southern Ocean is now the fourth largest of the world's five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Indian Ocean, but larger than the Arctic Ocean). For some time, those in geographic circles have debated whether there are four or five oceans on earth.
The four main ocean basins are those of the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, and Arctic Oceans. The Pacific Ocean, which occupies about one-third of Earth's surface, has the largest basin. Its basin also has the greatest average depth at approximately 14,000 feet (4,300 meters). 
1. Pacific Ocean. The Pacific Ocean is by far the world's largest ocean at 60,060,700 square miles (155,557,000 sq km). According to the CIA World Factbook, it covers 28% of the Earth and is equal in size to nearly all of the land area on the Earth. Oceans are a major component of the Earth's hydrosphere and cover 71% of the Earth's surface. Although the oceans of the Earth are all connected and are truly one World Ocean, most often the world is divided into five different oceans. The following is a list of the world's oceans, arranged by size.
The Pacific Ocean is the largest and deepest of the world ocean basins. The ' Ring of Fire ' is defined by a nearly continuous series of oceanic trenches, island arcs, and volcanic mountain ranges and/or boundaries of several plates. It encircles the periphery of the Pacific Ocean Basin. and containing more than half of the free water on Earth, the Pacific is by far the largest of the world’s ocean basins. All of the world’s continents could fit into the Pacific basin. The Pacific is the oldest of the existing ocean basins. Its oldest rocks have been dated at about 200 million years
The four oceans of the Earth are the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic  Ocean, the Indian Ocean, and the Arctic Ocean. The four oceans of the Earth is the   Pacific Ocean  Atlantic Ocean  Indian Ocean  Artic Ocean   The Atlantic Ocean is not really an ocean because, the Antarctic Oce … an circles the globe and surrounds the southern continent of Antarctica. The Antarctic Ocean is also called the Southern