If you plan to bury your fence posts in concrete, one of the big decisions that confronts you is whether you want to mix your own concrete and, if you do, which products to use and how to do it. There are circumstances under which it makes sense to have ready-mixed concrete delivered by truck. 
Don’t forget of course that you are not pouring footings to support a high-rise skyscraper. As long as the concrete is a fairly solid chunk it will do it’s job just fine. I recently pulled up a couple of PT 4×4 posts that I dry-set in 1994 and the concrete came up in one solid chunk still attached to the post. Standard practice is to use 40# per line post and a full bag (80#) for gate posts. We set the post in the hole, pour the concrete, tamp with a digging bar, finish filling the hole with dirt and tamp. Just make sure the holes are the right depth to accomodate the height of the fence.
It is standard practice for most of the fence contractors in my area to Dry Pack the concrete around the posts. Standard practice is to use 40# per line post and a full bag (80#) for gate posts. We set the post in the hole, pour the concrete, tamp with a digging bar, finish filling the hole with dirt and tamp. Just make sure the holes are the right depth to accomodate the height of the fence. I have never had any issues with posts rising or leaning
· just now. Report Abuse. You can pour the cement one day and let it dry over night --You should be able to nail the boards onto it the next day. Wait for a day with (no rain) to pour cement. We just built a fence and poured the cement and it set up real well by the next day--but it was not raining. Good Luck on your fenc
How long to let concrete cure.... I've poured my footing, and a small pier block on top of it. The footing is 2'x2'x12 and the pier block on top of it is 10 x 10 x 10. The pier block should be filled with concrete if you want it to carry any sort of load. I would use a min 1/4 inch metal plate between the Girder and the filled block. Concrete= Keep it wet, 28 days if you can afford to wait that long.
Function. When setting posts in concrete, always read and follow the concrete manufacturer's instructions. Typically, you'll be instructed to set the post in a hole that's three times the diameter of the post and deep enough to bury one third of the post, plus an extra 6 inches of depth for a gravel base. Effects. When fast-setting concrete mix is used, setting takes place in 20 to 40 minutes. Typically, you can apply some weight to the posts after 4 hours, but it's a good idea to wait at least 24 hours before resuming fence construction. Standard concrete mixes may take up to two hours to set and should cure for 24 to 48 hours before any forces are applied to the posts
Once all posts are temporarily set you can proceed to mix any concrete you are going to use or fill in the holes with dirt or gravel. When it comes to concrete there are several different options you can choose from. For a very sturdy fence you can pour concrete in every hole. Next, take your fence post and stick it in the hole. Make sure it is the right height and adjust accordingly by continuing to dig or filling in the hole. For a sturdy post you should try and make your hole at least 2 feet deep.
My idea is to concrete the end and corner posts deeper and then use a gravel footing and backfill with sand for the rest. Will this... show more i live in michigan and want to install about 450' of 6x8 wood fence. Since I am going to have to use about 58 4x's I am trying to see if I need to concrete every single one. 