Causes. Many diseases and conditions can contribute to elevated liver enzymes. Your doctor determines the specific cause of your elevated liver enzymes by reviewing your medications, your signs and symptoms and, in some cases, other tests and procedures. More common causes of elevated liver enzymes include: 1  Certain prescription medications, including statin drugs used to control cholesterol.
Liver enzyme tests, formerly called liver function tests (LFTs), are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. They can also check how well the liver is working. The cells in the liver contain proteins called enzymes that drive these chemical reactions. When liver cells are damaged or destroyed, the enzymes in the cells leak out into the blood, where they can be measured by blood tests.
I will explain to you what elevated liver enzymes means. Liver enzymes are naturally found in liver cells, but leak into the blood when those cells are damaged. So since your father has high liver enzymes, he has damage to some part of the liver. This is NOT necessarily cancer. 
One other potential cause of high liver enzymes in a blood test is the nature of the normal limits. They're an average value that applies to most people, but if the enzymes are very slightly elevated, it's entirely possible that your friend is just one of the people who doesn't fit within the average. Elevated enzymes don't necessarily mean anything. There are more than one liver enzyme so your information is nonspecific. Your friend will have follow up for this and your friend's doctor can explain to your friend the significance of this result in context of a total health picture.
Best Answer: Hello, Normally, elevated cardiac enzymes indicate a possible heart attack or significant arrhythmia. Persons with HOCM, however, have elevated cardiac enzymes, even at baseline. Thus elevation of these enzymes does not necessarily mean that one of those things happened to your son. 
If your doctor says you have high enzymes, he is referring to an elevated liver enzyme level. High enzymes in your liver indicate damage to the cells or inflammation in your liver. Inflamed liver cells leak higher-than-normal amounts of liver enzymes into the bloodstream. This results in higher-than-normal enzyme level on your blood test. Types of Liver Enzymes. Two types of liver enzymes are most commonly found: alanine transaminase and aspartate transaminase. ALT is an enzyme found primarily in the liver that helps your body metabolize protein. ALT levels in the blood are normally low.
Blood enzyme tests. Enzymes are chemicals which help to regulate a number of chemical reactions, and that take place in the body. Blood enzyme tests can be used to measure the levels and activity of certain enzymes. Some blood enzyme tests assess the liver enzymes and others test for damage to the heart. There are three main blood enzyme tests, which are used to check if an individual has had a heart attack or has experienced damage to their muscles; these are:
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A number of things can cause elevated liver enzymes. Some are serious, and some aren't, so your friend should definitely discuss the blood test results with his or her doctor. Elevated enzymes don't necessarily mean anything. There are more than one liver enzyme so your information is nonspecific. Your friend will have follow up for this and your friend's doctor can explain to your friend the significance of this result in context of a total health picture.
Definition. Elevated liver enzymes may indicate inflammation or damage to cells in the liver. Inflamed or injured liver cells leak higher than normal amounts of certain chemicals, including liver enzymes, into the bloodstream, which can result in elevated liver enzymes on blood tests. The specific elevated liver enzymes most commonly found are: 1  Alanine transaminase (ALT). 2  Aspartate transaminase (AST).