For a more detailed explanation, please see: what causes adult acne. Gluten contributes to acne in two ways. First, it causes damage to the small intestine, which could lead to nutritional deficiencies and an increased toxic body load (through leaky gut syndrome). The second link between gluten and acne is inflammation.
No evidence links gluten to acne. Photo Credit John Foxx/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Gluten may be blamed for a plethora of medical ailments, but the truth is that this protein -- found in wheat, rye and barley -- does not produce ill effects in people who are not gluten-sensitive or have celiac disease.
As you can see, gluten and acne have a strong connection. Since gluten and acne do not mix well, anyone who suffers from acne should eliminate gluten from their diet, and only eat gluten free foods. Scientists claim that eating certain foods, such as greasy foods or chocolate, does not cause acne. However, food allergies can-and do-cause acne, which is the case of gluten and acne. Eating a 100% gluten free diet is the only solution for acne that is caused by gluten. This means that you must remove all wheat, rye, barley, and oats from your diet, and avoid any foods that contain those ingredients.
There is a connection between gluten and acne. Gluten may very well be the cause of your constant acne flare-ups that seem like they will never go away. This could be stopping you from having the creamy, smooth skin you deserve.
Gluten can cause acne only if the person has an intolerance or allergy to gluten. A person who is gluten intolerant can not digest gluten so the body will not recognize it when it is eaten and therefore treats it as a foreign body when trying to digest it.
Dermatologists often dismiss people who say gluten causes their acne. That’s because gluten sensitivity isn’t always linked to visible and measurable small intestine damage (as is the case with celiac disease). Celiac disease often also comes with other symptoms that are absent from gluten sensitive people.
Gluten is a protein that is found in wheat, rye, barley, and oats. Many people are gluten intolerant, which is much like being dairy intolerant. Gluten intolerance can cause digestive problems, which creates inflammation in the abdomen, or gut. This inflammation can create acne. It is a chain reaction.