2. Geology Relating to metamorphism. Metamorphic rocks are formed when igneous, sedimentary, or other metamorphic rocks undergo a physical change due to extreme heat and pressure. These changes often produce folded layers and veins in the rocks, and they can also cause pockets of precious minerals to form. See Table at rock
Metamorphic Rocks. Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) can become a metamorphic rock. If rocks are buried deep in the Earth at high temperatures and pressures, they form new minerals and textures all without melting. If melting occurs, magma is formed, starting the rock cycle all over again
Formation of metamorphic rocks Metamorphic rocks are created by the physical or chemical alteration by heat and pressure of an existing igneous or sedimentary material into a denser form. 
Metamorphic rocks have been modified by heat, pressure and chemical processes, usually while buried deep below Earth's surface. Exposure to these extreme conditions has altered the mineralogy, texture and chemical composition of the rocks. There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure. 
Metamorphic rocks are formed from other types of rocks. The original rock is exposed to conditions such as heat or pressure. Carbon turning to diamonds while under extreme pressure is an example of a metamorphic rock. 
By Andrew Alden. Metamorphic rocks are the third great class of rocks. These are what happens when sedimentary and igneous rocks become changed, or metamorphosed (changed in form), by conditions underground. The four main agents that metamorphose rocks are heat, pressure, fluids and strain. 
Metamorphic rocks started out as some other type of rock, but have been substantially changed from their original igneous, sedimentary, or earlier metamorphic form. Metamorphic rocks form when rocks are subjected to high heat, high pressure, hot, mineral-rich fluids or, more commonly, some combination of these factors. 
A metamorphic rock is a result of a transformation of a pre-existing rock. The original rock is subjected to very high heat and pressure, which cause obvious physical and/or chemical changes. Examples of these rock types include marble, slate, gneiss, schist. 
Marble is a metamorphic rock that is formed from the sedimentary rock limestone. Quartzite is a metamorphic rock that is formed from the sedimentary rock sandstone. Slate is a metamorphic rock that is formed from the sedimentary rock mudstone. Granulite is a metamorphic rock that is formed from the igneous rock basalt. Learn about sedimentary rocks, igneous rocks, other rocks and minerals or fossils. Make a fossil cast or check out our rock sorting lesson plan.