Different: Animal cells do not have a rigid cell wall like plant cells do.Plant cells have chloroplasts f … or photosynthesis, but animal cells don't.Plant cells usually have one or more large vacuoles (fluid compartments), but some animal cells have regular vacuoles while other animal cells don't have any vacuoles. Plant cells have Cell Walls AND Cell Membranes Animal Cells have only a cell membrane. * Plant Cells are autotrophs Animal Cells are Heterotrophs * Plant Cells make Chlo … ropyll Animal Cells don't. plants cells have cell wall and chloroplast while animal cells doesn't. + 3 others found this useful.
Plant cells and animal cells have some things in common and some differences. Differences: Plant cells have centrioles or intermediate filaments. They also have a more square shape and contain chloroplasts. Plants have a cell wall that is made up of fibrils of cellulose. Animal cells must obtain food from a source outside of the body. Alike: Plant and animal cells have a plasma membrane, a nucleus, a nucleolus, mitochondria, ribosomes, endoplasmic recticulum, endoplasmic reticulum, golgi apparatus, peroxisomes, and microtubles. Plants and animal cells divide to form new cells
Best Answer: Plant and animal cells are both classified as eukaryotes (along with fungal cells and others), because they have membranes encasing their nuclear (as in nucleus, not power plant) materials (including DNA, associated proteins, and transcription products). Second, the differences between eukaryotes like plant and animal cells and prokaryotes like bacteria are also important: 1. Prokaryotes generally do not contain membrane bound organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, and instead produce their energy using proteins embedded in their plasma membrane.
3. Plant and animals cells both contain vacuoles, but the vacuoles in plant cells are much larger than in animal cells. 4. Both plant and animal cells contain organelles called mitochondria that provide energy for the cell. However, plants also contain chloroplasts (generally in greater numbers than mitrochondria) that also produce energy for the cell, while animal cells do not. Second, the differences between eukaryotes like plant and animal cells and prokaryotes like bacteria are also important: 1. Prokaryotes generally do not contain membrane bound organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, and instead produce their energy using proteins embedded in their plasma membrane.
Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes. Plant and animal cells are both eukaryotic cells, so they have several features in common, such as the presence of a cell membrane, and cell organelles, like the nucleus, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum. 
Problems. Figure %: Generalized Plant Cell. Structurally, plant and animal cells are very similar because they are both eukaryotic cells. They both contain membrane-bound organelles such as the nucleus, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, golgi apparatus, lysosomes, and peroxisomes. Both also contain similar membranes, cytosol, and cytoskeletal elements. Plant cells can be larger than animal cells. The normal range for an animal cell varies from 10 to 30 micrometers while that for a plant cell stretches from 10 to 100 micrometers. Beyond size, the main structural differences between plant and animal cells lie in a few additional structures found in plant cells.
How Plant & Animal cells are alike:. A. These cells are made up of the same materials. B. These cells all have cytoplasm, a nucleus and a cell membrane. C. Both cells carry out basic life activities (take in food, make energy, reproduce etc .) D. They are both eukaryotic cells. How Plant & Animal cells are alike: 1  A. These cells are made up of the same materials. 2  B. These cells all have cytoplasm, a nucleus and a cell membrane. 3  C. Both cells carry out basic life activities (take in food, make energy, reproduce etc .).
Animal and plant cells are alike because they both have nuclei, DNA, vacuoles, cell membranes, Golgi bodies, and rough and smooth endoplasmic reticuli. Plant cells have Cell Walls AND Cell Membranes Animal Cells have only a cell membrane. * Plant Cells are autotrophs Animal Cells are Heterotrophs * Plant Cells make Chlo … ropyll Animal Cells don't. plants cells have cell wall and chloroplast while animal cells doesn't. + 3 others found this useful.