One of the biggest mistake men make is letting their lawyer run the show. Lawyers are in business to make money for themselves, not help you reach a fair settlement or get custody of your kids. Divorce lawyers handle 100's of cases per year. 
A few people reported that they paid their attorney as little as $50 per hour, and a few reported paying as much as $400 to $650 per hour. But the vast majority paid between $150 and $350 per hour, with $250 being the most commonly reported fee. The survey asked respondents about a number of things, including: 1  how much their divorce attorney charged per hour. 2  how much their divorce cost. 3  the number of issues that they resolved out of court and in court. 4  whether their spouse contested the case. 5  how long the divorce took from start to finish.
Usually, a personal injury lawyer will take one-third of your final settlement offer as compensation for their work. For example, a settlement of $10,000 would result in a $3,333 payment to your lawyer and $6,667 for you to take home. Lawyers who work on contingency only get paid if they win you money.
While many lawyers do tell clients to hire a financial professional, some don't -- and settlement mistakes can cost clients thousands of dollars. Still, the price of hiring a divorce finance pro can range from $4,000 to $25,000. Lawyers in the association are required to spend at least 75 percent of their time on matrimonial law issues and have at least 10 years' experience in the subject (or with five years' experience, to spend at least 90 percent of their time on such cases). Matrimonial lawyers say clients benefit from their expertise.
Believe it or not, rates may vary anywhere from $50 an hour to a $1,000 an hour or more. In rural areas and small towns, lawyers tend to charge less, and fees in the range of $100 to $200 an hour for an experienced attorney are probably the norm. In major metropolitan areas, the norm is probably closer to $200 to $400 an hour. Lawyers with expertise in specialized areas may charge much more. In addition, you can expect to be charged at an hourly rate for paralegals and other support staff.
Lawyers in the association are required to spend at least 75 percent of their time on matrimonial law issues and have at least 10 years' experience in the subject (or with five years' experience, to spend at least 90 percent of their time on such cases). You'll pay more than the advertised rate -- way more. The U.S. divorce rate has nearly doubled since 1960, according to the National Marriage Project at the University of Virginia, and the number of divorce lawyers has grown apace.
Not surprisingly, the more issues that went to trial, the more the divorce cost. The consumers who went to trial on any issue in their case reported spending an average of $19,600 in costs, including $15,800 for attorney's fees. The survey asked respondents about a number of things, including: 1  how much their divorce attorney charged per hour. 2  how much their divorce cost. 3  the number of issues that they resolved out of court and in court. 4  whether their spouse contested the case. 5  how long the divorce took from start to finish.
Attorney fees range widely and the total cost of your divorce will depend on numerous factors, such as where you live, whom you hire, whether your spouse is combative or collegial, how many issues you’ll need to resolve — and the list goes on. It’s a similar story if you try to find out how long your divorce might take. The survey asked respondents about a number of things, including: 1  how much their divorce attorney charged per hour. 2  how much their divorce cost. 3  the number of issues that they resolved out of court and in court. 4  whether their spouse contested the case. 5  how long the divorce took from start to finish.
For example, if you paid $5 for a share of stock and it is now worth $25, you have a capital gain of $20. This applies to other assets such as real estate (including your home), mutual fund accounts and just about any investment that has appreciated in value. Divorce and Your Finances-The 7 Most Costly Mistakes. Each year there are nearly 1 million divorces in the United States, or about 50% of all marriages (2002 United States Census Bureau statistics). The real tragedy, however, is the financial devastation that occurs to many individuals after their divorce.