Situated on Queensland’s iconic Sunshine Coast, Caloundra is a family friendly holiday destination popular for its relaxing escapes and ideal weather. Part of a string of popular holiday hot spots renowned for their almost endless sunshine, Caloundra weather offers one of the world’s most ideal climates. Boasting a mild climate year round and a daily average of 7 hours of sunshine, Caloundra weather experiences the highest levels of sunshine of anywhere in the world. Seasonal variations in Caloundra are much less extreme and far more subtle than those seen in North America, Europe and northern Asia.
Gold Coast: Annual Weather Averages. January is the hottest month in Gold Coast with an average temperature of 25°C (77°F) and the coldest is July at 15°C (59°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 9 in December. The wettest month is March with an average of 203mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in February when the average sea temperature is 27°C (81°F).
The Sunshine Coast's climate remains steady even in the change to winter with temperatures ranging between 7 - 22 degrees Celsius during June to August. Spring is similarly mild with temperatures reaching between 13 - 25 degrees Celsius. Although the Blackall Range can experience temperatures several degrees cooler than other parts of the Sunshine Coast, there is always the trademark sunny weather to keep the climate enjoyable.
The daytime beach temperature in July averages around 20°C and in January, the temperatures average around 28°C. In the hills of the hinterland, temperatures tend to be a degree cooler or warmer than on the coast. For more details follow this link to the Australian Bureau Of Meterology South East Queensland page. During the winter months the temperature along the coast can average around 20°C (68°F).
Low: 16°C. High: 27°C. The weather on the Sunshine Coast undergoes mild fluctuations in extremes and is pretty much ideal all year round. Summer or winter, there will always be people out and about dining alfresco, walking the beaches, boating or just simply enjoying the outdoor surrounds. In the hills of the hinterland, temperatures tend to be a degree cooler or warmer than on the coast. For more details follow this link to the Australian Bureau Of Meterology South East Queensland page. During the winter months the temperature along the coast can average around 20°C (68°F).
Sunshine Coast Weather. The Sunshine Coast could well have one of the most ideal climates in the world. With an average of 7 hours of sushine a day, the Sunshine Coast really does live up to its name. During the summer months from December to February the temperature ranges from 17 - 28 degrees and are offset by cool sea breezes
Climate. The Sunshine Coast has one of the highest sunshine readings in the world, averaging seven hours a day. The variation between summer and winter is much less than you experience in Europe, North America, and northern Asia.
Temperatures in the Sunshine Coast are generally warm year round with summer temperatures averaging 17 - 28 degrees Celsius from December to February and autumn temperatures falling between 13 - 25 degrees Celsius from March to May. However the coastal location benefits from cooling sea breezes on warmer days. Spring is similarly mild with temperatures reaching between 13 - 25 degrees Celsius. Although the Blackall Range can experience temperatures several degrees cooler than other parts of the Sunshine Coast, there is always the trademark sunny weather to keep the climate enjoyable.
The Sunshine Coast's main rainfall occurs in the first few months of the year with an average of 300 mm falling which drops off to an average of just 40 mm throughout the winter months. Spring is similarly mild with temperatures reaching between 13 - 25 degrees Celsius. Although the Blackall Range can experience temperatures several degrees cooler than other parts of the Sunshine Coast, there is always the trademark sunny weather to keep the climate enjoyable.