1 Pain: At times, a hiatal hernia causes chest pain or upper abdominal pain when the stomach becomes trapped above the diaphragm through the narrow esophageal hiatus. 2  Other causes: Rarely, with a fixed hiatal hernia, the blood supply is cut off to the trapped portion of the stomach, causing great pain and serious illness. 
A hernia occurs when an organ pushes through an opening in the muscle or tissue that holds it in place. For example, the intestines may break through a weakened area in the abdominal wall. Hernias are most common in the abdomen. However, they can also appear in the upper thigh, belly button, and groin regions. 
A hernia occurs when an organ or fatty tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective tissue called fascia. The most common types of hernia are inguinal (inner groin), incisional (resulting from an incision), femoral (outer groin), umbilical (belly button), and hiatal (upper stomach). In an inguinal hernia, the intestine or the bladder protrudes through the abdominal wall or into the inguinal canal in the groin. Ultimately, all hernias are caused by a combination of pressure and an opening or weakness of muscle or fascia; the pressure pushes an organ or tissue through the opening or weak spot. Sometimes the muscle weakness is present at birth; more often, it occurs later in life.
Ventral Hernia. Hernias most commonly develop in the abdominal wall, where an area weakens and develops a tear or hole. Abdominal tissue or part of the intestines may push through this weakened area, causing pain and potentially serious complications. Ventral hernias are a type of abdominal hernia. They may develop as a defect at birth, resulting from incomplete closure of part of the abdominal wall, or develop where an incision was made during an abdominal surgery, occurring when the incision doesn't heal properly.
For inguinal, femoral, umbilical, and incisional hernias, symptoms may include: 1  An obvious swelling beneath the skin of the abdomen or the groin; it may disappear when you lie down and may be tender. 2  A heavy feeling in the abdomen that is sometimes accompanied by constipation or blood in the stool. 1 An obvious swelling beneath the skin of the abdomen or the groin; it may disappear when you lie down and may be tender. 2  A heavy feeling in the abdomen that is sometimes accompanied by constipation or blood in the stool. 3  Discomfort in the abdomen or groin when lifting or bending over.
An abdominal hernia is a bulge or swelling. It happens when some of the contents inside your abdomen (tummy), such as fat or bowel, push through a weakness in your abdominal wall muscle. The abdominal wall is a sheet of tough muscles and tendons that run between your ribs and your groin (upper part of your leg). 
Hiatal hernia. A hiatal hernia occurs when weakened muscle tissue allows your stomach to bulge up through your diaphragm. It's not always clear why this happens, but pressure on your stomach and age-related changes in your diaphragm may contribute to the formation of a hiatal hernia. How a hiatal hernia forms. Your diaphragm is a large, dome-shaped muscle that separates your chest cavity from your abdomen. Normally, your esophagus passes into your stomach through an opening in the diaphragm called the hiatus.
Hiatal hernias occur when part of the stomach slides through the opening in the diaphragm where the esophagus passes from the chest into the abdomen. A sliding hiatal hernia is the most common type and occurs when the lower esophagus and portions of the stomach slide through the diaphragm into the chest. Paraesophageal hernias occur when only the stomach herniates into the chest alongside the esophagus.