Thorascopic off-pump (TOP) surgical ablation (also known as mini Maze procedure, absent thoracotomy Maze procedure) is performed on a beating heart -- the heart is not arrested via bypass. Aetna considers minimally invasive, off-pump Maze procedures, also known as thoracoscopic off-pump surgical ablation (TOPS), experimental and investigational for atrial fibrillation or flutter because there is insufficient evidence of their effectiveness. See also CPB 0019 - Holter Monitors. The Maze procedure is a surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) in which multiple atrial incisions interrupt the pathogenic reentrant circuits and also direct the sinus impulses to the AV node along a specified route
A multi-institutional experience with the CryoMaze procedure. Gammie JS, Laschinger JC, Brown JM, Poston RS, Pierson RN 3rd, Romar LG, Schwartz KL, Santos MJ, Griffith BP. Division of Cardiac Surgery, University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. jgammie@smail.umaryland.edu. 
Cryoablation is a process that uses extreme cold (cryo) to destroy or damage tissue (ablation). Cryoablation is used in a variety of clinical applications using hollow needles (cryoprobes) through which cooled, thermally conductive, fluids are circulated.
The maze procedure is a surgical treatment for atrial fibrillation. It can also be called a surgical ablation. The surgeon can use small incisions, radio waves, freezing, or microwave or ultrasound energy to create scar tissue. 1 You have symptoms of atrial fibrillation, and you are having another heart surgery. 2  You are having another heart surgery, and adding the maze procedure is not too risky. 3  You cannot have catheter ablation, or you prefer to have surgery. 4  You have already had catheter ablation, but you still have
Open Chest Maze Surgery. Open chest Maze surgery means that the sternum is divided to allow access to the chest. During this surgery, the heart is stopped and a heart-lung machine is used. Scissors are used to open the pericardium to gain access to the heart.
Home Areas of Expertise MAZE Procedure. Cryomaze. As a treatment for atrial fibrillation, the Cryomaze procedure creates linear cryolesions (frozen scars) in the upper chamber of the heart by applying an Argon-powered cold probe to freeze the tissue.
Cox-CryoMaze – AFIB. Atrial fibrillation (AFIB) is a common cardiac rhythm disturbance in which the upper chambers of the heart no longer contract in a coordinated manner with the lower chambers. AFIB causes patients to experience palpitations and shortness of breath. 
Surgical Ablation. The minimally invasive CryoMaze procedure, available at Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin, offers atrial fibrillation patients the strong possibility of cure without open heart surgery. How Surgical CryoMaze and Maze Work. Every heartbeat begins with an electrical impulse generated in the right atrium, an upper chamber of the heart. Normally, these impulses spread through the heart along well defined pathways, causing the heart muscles to contract in an orderly pattern.