Duties. Floor technicians scrub, shine, clean and repair carpeted and noncarpeted areas using appropriate equipment and chemicals. This job includes moving large furniture and objects and following safety guidelines to prevent injury to themselves and others. Floor technicians clean floors and carpets for large facilities such as gymnasiums, hospitals, businesses and schools. Their work improves the overall appearance of an organization, presenting a clean environment to visitors and employees. 1  Floor Care Technician Job Description.
I do not recommend using a damp mop unless it has truly has got all the water completely wrung out of it. We vacuum our pebble tech floors weekly and semi annually get in and really clean them well. We vacuum, then use a carpet steam cleaner, if you can get one with a brush that is best. Use simple green as a cleaner or an antibacterial non sudsy product. If the floor is especially dirty, we use a long handled brush to help the steam cleaner along, let it sit for 15 minutes or so and then rinse, rinse, rinse.
The Donor Floor Technician is an entry-level position, and is responsible for preparing the donor area for the plasmapheresis process (i.e., donor and equipment... 1 hour ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Octapharma Plasma jobs in Hazelwood, MO-Hazelwood jobs. Donor Floor Technician. Some of the Donor Floor Tech responsibilities are; Escorting the donor to the donor floor, performing donor ID, PCS2 machine set ups, and donor disconnects once... Easily apply. 30+ days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all BPL Plasma jobs in Jonesboro, AR-Jonesboro
Floor Cleaning Technician. Provides floor maintenance and Some lifting. Hiring Part Floor Tech for Local Retail Store. Handles floor care, including routine mopping (dry and damp),... Swedish Medical Center is looking for a 1.0 FTE Environmental Services Project/Floor Technician... Providence Health & Services - 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Swedish Medical Center jobs in Seattle, WA-Seattle jobs.
Floor Technician. Strip and Wax floors. The duties of a Floor Technician are to operate buffers, sweepers, strippers, mops and other equipment but not limited to the following:.... 4 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all GCA Services Group jobs in Whitehall, MI-Whitehall jobs. Swedish Medical Center is looking for a 1.0 FTE Environmental Services Project/Floor Technician... Providence Health & Services - 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Swedish Medical Center jobs in Seattle, WA-Seattle jobs.
We are currently seeking a Carpet Cleaning/ Floor Care Technician for the Seattle and Surrounding Areas at an hourly rate of $18.00/hr DOE.... 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Management Services Northwest jobs in Seattle, WA-Seattle jobs. Swedish Medical Center is looking for a 1.0 FTE Environmental Services Project/Floor Technician... Providence Health & Services - 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Swedish Medical Center
Average Floor Technician Salaries. The average salary for floor technician jobs is $32,000. Average floor technician salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term floor technician anywhere in the job listing. The floor technician salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional floor technician salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
I'm a PCT house float in ohio (I work in all units of 2 hospitals in our network)-. on med surg floors-. PCT's can do vitals, bladder scans, draw blood, remove catheters, and any other STNA type duties. On our cardiac/step down units PCT's can do EKGs as well as all of the above. In ER we can technically do more, because a PCT can also be an ER tech in some hospitals (again depends on hospital policy).
Job Description of a Floor Technician. Floor technicians clean floors and carpets for large facilities such as gymnasiums, hospitals, businesses and schools. Their work improves the overall appearance of an organization, presenting a clean environment to visitors and employees. 1  Floor Care Technician Job Description.