The part of the pharynx superior to the soft palate is called the nasopharynx. The part of the human soft palate that is lacking in the fetal pig  is the uvula.
The PHARYNX is a fibromuscular tube which extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage (at which point it becomes the esophagus). Portions of the pharynx lie posterior to the nasal cavity (nasal pharynx), oral cavity (oral pharynx) and larynx (laryngeal pharynx). The muscular walls of the pharynx are comprised of an outer layer made up of 3 circularly disposed muscles, the CONSTRICTORS. Part of the posterior wall of the pharynx has been cut away (jagged edge) to expose the interior of the pharynx. This figure illustrates the relationship between the longitudinal and circular muscles making up the muscular walls of the pharynx. Figure 3. (On right.) View from behind
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The soft palate (also known as velum or muscular palate) is, in mammals, the soft tissue constituting the back of the roof of the mouth. The soft palate is distinguished from the hard palate at the front of the mouth in that it does not contain bone. 
The part of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate; anteriorly it opens into the nasal cavities through the choanae; inferiorly, it communicates with the oropharynx through the pharyngeal isthmus; laterally it communicates with tympanic cavities through pharyngotympanic (auditory) tubes. the uppermost of the three regions of the throat (pharynx), situated behind the nasal cavity and extending from the posterior nares to the level above the soft palate. On the posterior wall of the nasopharynx, opposite the posterior nares, are the pharyngeal tonsils.
The larynx is the organ that connects the lower part of the pharynx with the trachea. It serves (1) as a valve to guard the air passages, especially during swallowing, (2) for the maintenance of a patent airway, and (3) for vocalization. The anterior aspect of the larynx is quite superficial (fig. Each lateral wall of the nasopharynx has the pharyngeal opening of the auditory tube, located about 1 to 1.5 cm (1) inferior to the roof of the pharynx, (2) anterior to the posterior wall of the pharynx, (3) superior to the level of the palate, and (4) posterior to the inferior nasal concha and the nasal septum (fig.
The word throat is used for the parts of the neck anterior to the vertebral column, especially the pharynx and the larynx. The pharynx is the part of the digestive system situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. It is therefore divisible into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts: the (1) nasopharynx, (2) oropharynx, and (3) laryngopharynx. Each lateral wall of the nasopharynx has the pharyngeal opening of the auditory tube, located about 1 to 1.5 cm (1) inferior to the roof of the pharynx, (2) anterior to the posterior wall of the pharynx, (3) superior to the level of the palate, and (4) posterior to the inferior nasal concha and the nasal septum (fig.
na·so·phar·ynx. The part of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate; anteriorly it opens into the nasal cavity; inferiorly, it communicates with the oropharynx through the pharyngeal isthmus; laterally it communicates with tympanic cavities through auditory tubes. Synonym(s): epipharynx. the uppermost of the three regions of the throat (pharynx), situated behind the nasal cavity and extending from the posterior nares to the level above the soft palate. On the posterior wall of the nasopharynx, opposite the posterior nares, are the pharyngeal tonsils.