Cushing's syndrome is caused by either excessive cortisol-like medication such as prednisone or a tumor that either produces, or results in the production of excessive cortisol by the adrenal glands. Cases due to a pituitary adenoma are known as Cushing's disease. It is the second most common cause of Cushing's syndrome after medication. A number of other tumors may also cause Cushing's.
Cushing's syndrome, also known as hypercortisolism, Itsenko-Cushing syndrome, and hyperadrenocorticism, is a collection of signs and symptoms due to prolonged exposure to cortisol. Cases due to a pituitary adenoma are known as Cushing's disease. It is the second most common cause of Cushing's syndrome after medication. A number of other tumors may also cause Cushing's.
Causes. You can get Cushing's syndrome when there’s too much cortisol in your body for too long. Cortisol comes from your adrenal glands, which sit on top of your kidneys. The most common cause is related to medications called glucocorticoids, also commonly known as steroids or prednisone. Taking too much, for too long, can lead to Cushing's syndrome. A tumor in your pituitary gland, found at the base of the brain, or a tumor in the adrenal glands, can also prompt your body to make too much cortisol, which can lead to Cushing’s. It's not usually a condition that's passed in families.
Cushing’s Syndrome is a disease caused by an excess of cortisol production or by excessive use of cortisol or other similar steroid (glucocorticoid) hormones. Cortisol is a normal hormone produced in the outer portion, or cortex, of the adrenal glands, located above each kidney. 
The following can cause excessive production of cortisol or ACTH, leading to Cushing's syndrome. 1  Pituitary gland tumors: A benign (non-cancerous) tumor of the pituitary gland can secrete an excess amount of ACTH, which can cause Cushing's syndrome. The cause of Cushing's syndrome boils down to: Your body is exposed to too much cortisol. There are a few ways that this over-exposure can happen, including taking certain medications and having a tumor on your pituitary gland or adrenal gland.
When the cause of the excess cortisol is excess ACTH made by a pituitary tumor, the condition is called Cushing’s disease. Rarely, excess ACTH can be produced by a tumor elsewhere in the body, which is referred to as ectopic production of ACTH. When too much cortisol is present in the body, it is called Cushing’s syndrome, regardless of the cause. Cortisol is made by the adrenal glands which are stimulated by ACTH, which is produced in pituitary gland.
Sometimes, an abnormality of the adrenal glands, most often an adrenal tumor, causes Cushing's syndrome. The average age of onset is about 40 years. Most of these cases involve non-cancerous tumors of adrenal tissue, called adrenal adenomas, which release excess cortisol into the blood. Others develop Cushing's syndrome because of overproduction of cortisol by the body. Normally, the production of cortisol follows a precise chain of events. First, the hypothalamus, a part of the brain which is about the size of a small sugar cube, sends corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) to the pituitary gland.
1 Cushing's syndrome, or hypercortisolism, is a relatively rare hormonal disorder caused by prolonged exposure of the body's tissues to high levels of the hormone cortisol. 1 Symptoms include upper body obesity, rounded face, increased fat around the neck, thinning arms and legs, fatigue, weakness, high blood pressure, and mood disorders. 2  Children tend to be obese with slowed growth rates. 3  Pituitary adenomas cause most cases of Cushing's syndrome.
Causes of Cushing's disease. Cushing's disease is caused by a pituitary adenoma, which is a benign tumor resulting in excess adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). Cushing's disease is a subtype of Cushing's syndrome. 
Cushing's syndrome is caused by prolonged exposure to high levels of cortisol (a steroid hormone). Exposure may be due to cortisol-based medication for an unrelated illness or from abnormal regulation of cortisol production in the body. 