Respiration is a series of reactions in which energy is released from glucose glucose: A simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration. Aerobic respiration is the form of respiration which uses oxygen. It can be summarised by this equation: glucose + oxygen → carbon dioxide + water (+ energy). Energy is shown in brackets because it is not a substance. Notice that: 1  Glucose and oxygen are used up. 2  Carbon dioxide and water are produced as waste products.
Aerobic respiration requires oxygen in order to generate energy molecule ATP, where as an anaerobic respiration synthesize ATP by using the electron transport chain, with inorganic molecules other than oxygen. Anaerobic Respiration is typically referred to as fermentation and no oxygen is used in the process. When there is no oxygen available to break the sugar molecules, some cells are still able to produce energy by the process called fermentation or anaerobic cellular respiration or anaerobic glycolysis. Certain organisms do not need molecular oxygen to produce the energy molecules called ATP.
Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs. Anaerobic respiration is respiration without oxygen; the process uses a respiratory electron transport chain but does not use oxygen as the electron acceptors. Cells that use it. Aerobic respiration occurs in most cells.
Not to be confused with Lactic acid fermentation. Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. In order for the electron transport chain to function, an exogenous final electron acceptor must be present to allow electrons to pass through the system.
In this process, energy, carbon dioxide, and lactic acid or alcohol are produced by the breakdown of glucose molecules. It uses electron acceptors other than oxygen, and involves the processes of glycolysis and fermentation. Anaerobic respiration, in case of yeast cells, is commonly referred to as fermentation. Going a little deeper into the process, aerobic respiration can be sub-divided into three main stages: Anaerobic respiration refers to the type of respiration that takes place in the absence of oxygen. This form of respiration is carried out in bacteria, yeasts, some prokaryotes, and muscle cells.
Anaerobic respiration. Unlike aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration does not need oxygen. It is the release of a relatively small amount of energy in cells by the breakdown of food substances in the absence of oxygen. 
Energy is obtained more efficiently in the presence of oxygen via the process called aerobic respiration. When there is no oxygen available to break the sugar molecules, some cells are still able to produce energy by the process called fermentation or anaerobic cellular respiration or anaerobic glycolysis. Certain organisms do not need molecular oxygen to produce the energy molecules called ATP.