1 Uranus cannot be seen from the Earth without a telescope. 2  The seventh planet from the Sun, it was not known in ancient times, unlike the planets from Mercury to Saturn. 3  Uranus was first seen by William Herschel in 1781 during a survey of the sky using a telescope. 1 Because Uranus is lying on its side as it orbits the sun, for nearly a quarter of its orbit one pole of the planet is in complete darkness. 2  Uranus takes 17.9 hours to turn once on its own axis, faster than the Earth, which takes 24 hours and gives us the change from day to night.
The first planet found with the aid of a telescope, Uranus was discovered in 1781 by astronomer William Herschel. The seventh planet from the sun is so distant that it takes 84 years to complete one orbit. Uranus, with no solid surface, is one of the gas giant planets. (The others are Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune.) Its atmosphere is composed primarily of hydrogen and helium, with a small amount of methane and traces of water and ammonia. Uranus gets its blue-green color from methane gas.
Uranus, the seventh planet of the Solar System, has 27 known moons, all of which are named after characters from the works of William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope. Uranus's moons are divided into three groups: thirteen inner moons, five major moons, and nine irregular moons. 
Uranus is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology, from the Latinized version of the Greek god of the sky, Ouranos. Like the other giant planets, Uranus has a ring system, a magnetosphere, and numerous moons. Though Uranus is visible to the naked eye like the five classical planets, it was never recognized as a planet by ancient observers because of its dimness and slow orbit. Sir William Herschel announced its discovery on March 13, 1781, expanding the known boundaries of the Solar System for the first time in history.
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the first to be discovered by scientists. Although Uranus is visible to the naked eye, it was long mistaken as a star because of the planet’s dimness and slow orbit. The planet is also notable for its dramatic tilt, which causes its axis to point nearly directly at the sun. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Uranus is known for it's rings, there a 11 known rings on planet uranus and they are a very famous attraction. You would be killed if you were to try and land on Uranus. It is a giant, poisonous planet that is extremely cold, because it is so far from the Sun. The gravity is strong eno … ugh to crush any person or machine that tried to