EDIT. The O.C. - also known as Orange County, California-is an idyllic paradise, a wealthy, harbor-front community where everything and everyone appears to be perfect. 
N.W.A (an abbreviation of Niggaz Wit Attitudes) was an American hip hop group from Compton, California. It was one of the earliest and most significant popularizers of the gangsta rap and West Coast hip hop subgenres, and is widely considered one of the seminal groups in the history of hip hop music. Music was handled by Dr. Dre and DJ Yella; the lyrics were largely written by MC Ren, with contributions from Ice Cube and The D.O.C. The album was another double platinum success for Ruthless (in addition to girl group J.J. Fad in 1988 and singer Michel'le in 1989).
The fourth and final season of The O.C. , an American teen drama television series, aired in the United States from November 2, 2006 to February 22, 2007 and consisted of sixteen episodes. The O.C ’s final season aired Thursdays at 9:00 p.m. ET in the United States on Fox, a terrestrial television network. Fox tested a new timeslot by airing the second episode on Wednesday at 9:00 p.m. ET against ABC 's Lost and CBS 's Criminal Minds.
In June 2006, Fox confirmed that the current order for The O.C. is 16 episodes, but added that there was a chance to add more installments. In September 2006, Rachel Bilson said that she felt like the show is over, and co-star Kelly Rowan stated that many of the cast realised the show was close to being cancelled. The pilot episode attracted 7.46 million viewers in the United States, came second in its time slot behind the season finale of Last Comic Standing, and was the highest rated show of the night in the 12–17-year-old demographic. The most watched O.C. episode was . The Rivals , the seventeenth episode of season one. It attracted 12.72 million viewers, and was the lead-out to American Idol, which attracted 29.43 million viewers that week
The O.C. is an American teen drama television series that originally aired on the Fox network in the United States from August 5, 2003, to February 22, 2007, running a total of four seasons. The pilot episode attracted 7.46 million viewers in the United States, came second in its time slot behind the season finale of Last Comic Standing, and was the highest rated show of the night in the 12–17-year-old demographic. The most watched O.C. episode was . The Rivals , the seventeenth episode of season one. It attracted 12.72 million viewers, and was the lead-out to American Idol, which attracted 29.43 million viewers that week
Due to the death of Marissa Cooper in the third season finale, this was the first season without one of the core four characters of Marissa, Ryan Atwood, Seth Cohen, and Summer Roberts; however, executive producer Stephanie Savage said that Marissa's death set up a new direction for the show. The O.C ’s final season aired Thursdays at 9:00 p.m. ET in the United States on Fox, a terrestrial television network. Fox tested a new timeslot by airing the second episode on Wednesday at 9:00 p.m. ET against ABC 's Lost and CBS 's Criminal Minds.
Though it wouldn't be an episode of The O.C. if it didn't have its morals. The whole part with Ryan and Marissa visiting Chino was very well executed and really touched upon the whole situation about how while Ryan came to a better life, he also left behind some old ones. It's Thanksgiving time in ‘the O.C.' It's time for family reunions, and Ryan gets called home by his family. Is it because of the holiday, or is it for a favor? Marissa decides to go along for the ride, but ends up going down Ryan's bad-memory lane instead.
In Season 3, when Ryan was seeing Sadie and was unsure about asking Marisa to come to his birthday party, the calendar on the Cooper's wall had the number 19 circled as Ryan's birthday and the next day was indicated as the first day of Spring which would be in March. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 -/10 X. Ratings: 7.5 /10 from 61,501 users. Reviews: 280 user | 19 critic. A troubled youth becomes embroiled in the lives of a close-knit group of people in the wealthy, upper-class neighborhood of Newport Beach, Orange County, California.
Due to a combination of low ratings and the death of Marissa in season three, it was rumored that the show would not return for a fifth season. In June 2006, Fox confirmed that the current order for The O.C. is 16 episodes, but added that there was a chance to add more installments. In September 2006, Rachel Bilson said that she felt like the show is over, and co-star Kelly Rowan stated that many of the cast realized the show was close to being cancelled. The O.C ’s final season aired Thursdays at 9:00 p.m. ET in the United States on Fox, a terrestrial television network. Fox tested a new timeslot by airing the second episode on Wednesday at 9:00 p.m. ET against ABC 's Lost and CBS 's Criminal Minds.