If a muscle has an antagonist, it has another muscle or group of muscles that work to undo the motions the muscle causes.While this may sound counterproductive, antagonistic muscles are actually essential to most of the movements that the body makes. Muscle Development. When developing muscles through strength training or other exercise it is important to keep the antagonistic relationship of different muscles in mind. Workouts should include exercises that work both parts of an antagonistic pair so that each has a chance to contract and relax in different ways.
Biceps and triceps. The elbow joint lets our forearm move up or down. It is controlled by two muscles, the biceps on the front of the upper arm, and the triceps on the back of the upper arm. The biceps and the triceps are antagonistic muscles. when the biceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves up. when the triceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves down. This solves the problem. To lift the forearm, the biceps contracts and the triceps relaxes
Antagonistic pairs are needed in the body because muscles can only  exert a pulling force, and can't push themselves back into their  original positions. An example of this kind of muscle pairing is  the biceps brachii and triceps brachii. 
Muscle pairs. Antagonistic pairs of muscles create movement when one (the prime mover) contracts and the other (the antagonist) relaxes. Examples of antagonistic pairs working are: 1  the quadriceps and hamstrings in the leg. 2  the biceps and triceps in the arm. 
MUSCLE WORKING IN PAIRS. Muscles usually work in pairs or groups, e.g. the biceps flexes the elbow and the triceps extends it. This is called antagonistic muscle action. The working muscle is called the prime mover or agonist. (it s in agony!) The relaxing muscle is the antagonist. The other main pair of muscle that work together are the quadriceps and hamstrings. The prime mover is helped by other muscles called synergists
1 Biceps and triceps are antagonistic pairs. 2  The biceps muscle works across three joints and the most important of these functions is to flex the elbow, while the triceps muscle is the muscle principally responsible for extension of the elbow joint. Muscles are normally arranged in opposition so that as one group of muscles contract another group relaxes or lengthens. Antagonistic pairs of muscles are muscle where one move the bone in one direction and the other moves it back the other way in transmission of nerve impulses to the muscles. That means that it is impossible to fully stimulate the contraction of two antagonistic muscles at the same time
Your body is made up of muscle pairs. When you move, the main muscle that is responsible for the movement is the prime mover or agonist muscle. As it moves, a second muscle acts as an opposing force to resist the movement. This is the antagonist muscle. When you strength train, it is important to train both your agonist and antagonist muscles equally. 