What does my surname mean?. If you have ever asked this question and wondered about the origin of your last name, you will find your surname may answer one of the questions of where your ancestors lived, or what they did for a living, or what was their personality like, or how they looked many hundreds of years ago.
[ syll. lac-hel-le, la-che-lle ] The baby girl name Lachelle is pronounced as L AE KSH EH L- †. Lachelle is mainly used in English. Its language of origin is Germanic, Hebrew, and Old English. Lachelle is a variant form of the English name Chelle. Lachelle is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. 
Two (2) are always in the eternal search for their other half-their complement. Two is the number of peacemakers. They understand the law of harmony and desire to balance their life and those around them. They may feel incomplete without someone to share their love, ideals, wealth or work. You have an executive ability, you are a leader. You are moral, balanced, honest and intellectual, and you may attain spirituality. You are wise and practical with an appreciation of beauty. You always think before you act.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research.
You always bring to completion anything you start. You are generous but like to see returns from your giving. You have an executive ability, you are a leader. You are moral, balanced, honest and intellectual, and you may attain spirituality. You are wise and practical with an appreciation of beauty. You always think before you act.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research.
Name-Stats.com. Find out how popular your name is and was in years past in countries all over the globe. This web site includes first names and last names from countries such as American Names, British Names, Swedish Names, French Names, Belgium Names, and more! So if you have ever wondered about the popularity of your name or are looking for a popular baby name, this is the site for you!
Lachelle is a somewhat prominent first name for females (#3165 out of 4276, Top 74%) but an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Lachelle for girls. Lachelle /la-chel-le/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Old English, Hebrew and American derivation, and Lachelle means chalk landing place; who is like God?.
Feminine of Michael. A popular name when it was first used in the 1940s, and made even more so by the Beatles' famous song Michelle in the 1970s. Popular in Germany. Actresses Michelle Pfeiffer, Sara Michelle Gellar; singer Me'shell N'Deg Ocello; figure skater Michelle Kwan.