Some people experience a detoxification reaction when they start the raw food diet, especially if their previous diet was rich in meat, sugar, and caffeine. Mild headaches, nausea, and cravings can occur but usually last for several days. Considerable time, energy, and commitment is needed to be healthy on the raw food diet. Many of the foods are made from scratch. Some ingredients may be hard to find, such as Rejuvelac (the fermented liquid drained from sprouted grains), sprouted flour, date sugar, young coconut milk, carob powder and Celtic sea salt.
When you eat a Raw food diet, you digest your foods much faster, which is one of the main reasons it provides so much energy. Digestion can be one of the most energy draining activities for your body, therefore, your goal should be to have quick and easy digestion. Considerable time, energy, and commitment is needed to be healthy on the raw food diet. Many of the foods are made from scratch. Some ingredients may be hard to find, such as Rejuvelac (the fermented liquid drained from sprouted grains), sprouted flour, date sugar, young coconut milk, carob powder and Celtic sea salt.
Critics of the raw food diet say while it’s true that some enzymes are inactivated when food is heated, it doesn’t matter because the body uses its own enzymes for digestion. In addition, cooking makes certain phytochemicals easier to absorb, such as beta-carotene in carrots. Considerable time, energy, and commitment is needed to be healthy on the raw food diet. Many of the foods are made from scratch. Some ingredients may be hard to find, such as Rejuvelac (the fermented liquid drained from sprouted grains), sprouted flour, date sugar, young coconut milk, carob powder and Celtic sea salt.
The raw food diet represents Level 3 of the Death to Diabetes Diet. This diet contains fewer trans fats and saturated fat than the typical Western diet. It is also low in sodium and high in potassium, magnesium, folate, fiber and health-promoting plant chemicals called phytochemicals. Considerable time, energy, and commitment is needed to be healthy on the raw food diet. Many of the foods are made from scratch. Some ingredients may be hard to find, such as Rejuvelac (the fermented liquid drained from sprouted grains), sprouted flour, date sugar, young coconut milk, carob powder and Celtic sea salt.
Whether you've already quit meat or not, this is perhaps the perfect time to listen to American doctor Gabriel Cousens. A medical doctor, psychiatrist and family therapist, he has become a household name in the subject of raw vegan food, and even sustains this diet can cure diabetes and depression.Dr. Now when you cook food, you lose 50% of the protein, 70 to 80% of the vitamins and minerals and 95% of certain nutrients, so simply by eating raw or live food, you can eat half as much and you turn on all your anti-aging genes.
There is a lot of “buzz” concerning the raw food diabetic diet. This raw food diet review looks at the mysteries and misconceptions surrounding this hundred year old diet. Eating a raw food diet is not for everyone nor is starting a raw food diet easy. 
Raw for 30 Days is an independent documentary film that chronicles six Americans with diabetes who switch to a diet consisting entirely of vegan, organic, live, raw foods in order to reverse diabetes naturally. It’s almost an inverse “Supersize Me” if you will. Raw foodies believe cooking and processing food robs it of its nutritional value. There are three variants of raw food diets: vegan, vegetarian, and raw animal food diets. 1  Vegan raw food diets focus solely on fruits, vegetables, grains, nuts, seeds, and legumes.
By M Tyler, Nov 26, 2014. There's no one right diet when it comes to diabetes, but raw food has recently come into focus as a way to improve metabolic health, increase energy and stabilize blood sugar levels. Before making any major dietary changes, it's important to talk to your physician. The raw food diet is heavily based on raw vegetables, fruits and legumes. Less strict raw diets may also include some cooked foods, or foods cooked at low temperatures.
On a traditional raw food diet, you can eat fresh fruits and vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, legumes, seaweed, sprouted grains and other unprocessed or natural foods like dates or coconut meat. Special kitchen equipment, like a dehydrator and juicer, can make eating and preparing raw foods easier. The raw food diet is heavily based on raw vegetables, fruits and legumes. Less strict raw diets may also include some cooked foods, or foods cooked at low temperatures.