Larry K. Jackson and Jeffrey G. Williamson. People frequently want to grow some types of fruit trees in containers, because of poor soil, improper climate or lack of sufficient space. Fortunately, a wide variety of fruit crops can be grown in containers with some degree of success. LIGHT. Most fruit crops grow best in full sunlight, but some will do well in partial shade. However, plants grow in direct proportion to the amount of light received, if other conditions are optimum, so container-grown fruit trees should be placed where they will receive maximum sunlight.
Culture The Barbados cherry tree will grow and fruit fairly well with little care. For best performance, Puerto Rican agronomists have recommended a fertilizer formula of 8-8-13 twice annually for the first 4 years at the rate of 1/2 to 1 lb (0.22-0.45 kg). Older trees should have 3 to 5 lbs (1.35-2.25 kg) per tree. 
sidebarA. Sustainable crop production is a way of growing or raising food in an ecologically and ethically responsible manner. This includes adhering to agricultural and food production practices that do not harm the environment, that provide fair treatment to workers, and that support and sustain local communities. 
The 3 main crops grown in Barbados are sugar cane, vegetables and cotton. Over 37% of the land in Barbados is arable land with sugarcane continuing to be the dominate crop. This is because sugar cane is the island's leading crop and the second largest industry in Barbados, with millions of dollars being exported each year. Therefore while driving around in your rental car you will notice that there are many sugar cane fields and plantation houses spread throughout the island
Crops. Vegetables grown in Barbados include tomatoes, cucumbers, pumpkin, cabbage, carrots, lettuce, beets, okras, peppers and beans. Barbados crops also include root crops (we call them ground provisions) such as yams, sweet potatoes, eddoes and cassava. Barbados grows an array of tropical fruits including banana, mango, golden apple, carambola (5-finger), grapefruit and guava. Barbados also grows West Indian Sea Island Cotton, the highest grade cotton in the world. In fact this cotton is 5 times more expensive than the next best grade cotton. Barbados' climate is the perfect combination of sunshine, rain, and humidity for growing this precious resource.
The island of Barbados is known for many crops, whether commercially grown or grown on a small scale to provide for individual households. The three (3) main crops grown on the island are sugar cane, vegetables and cotton. A simple drive around the island will show evidence of sugar cane crops still in full production. In the early days, Barbados relied heavily on the exportation of sugar. Today, that export prospect is not as high as it used to be. From the time of Barbados' early settlement by the British in 1625, the island's livelihood came through its agriculture. Barbados was divided into large plantation lands that were used for the cultivation of tobacco and cotton crops.
Barbados went into a deep recession in the 1990s after 3 years of steady decline brought on by fundamental macroeconomic imbalances. After a painful re-adjustment process, the economy began to grow again in 1993. Growth rates have averaged between 3%–5% since then. Although it is often quoted that Barbados’ main produce is sugar there are only two working sugar factories remaining in the country (in the 19th century there were 10). At the end of 2013 Barbados economy continued to exhibited signs of weakness.
Crops are grown in the summer months, but it depends on the crop and the location. In some locations crops can be grown nearly year-round, while in other places the growing se … ason may last as little as 2 months or less. Answered. In Agriculture. 