This means two things: 1) if a person carries one allele for curly hair and another for straight hair, this person will have curly hair; 2) curly hair is a simple trait and is most likely determined by one single gene. It has been observed that oily hair is typically straight and that individuals with both curly and oily hair are extremely rare. One theory is that the oils secreted into the hair shaft by the sebaceous glands can travel down the shaft of straight hair more easily.
Best Answer: It's half & half. If both parents have straight hair, their children will all have straight hair. If both parents have curly hair, 1 of their children will have straight hair, and the rest curly or wavy. All those stick straight haired people, in school or work, end up curling their hair. Report Abuse. i dont think its rare i know alot of peopl with natural curly hair. Id love curly hair because i have to put lots of hairspray and curling serum in my hair to keep it curly all day haha.
It is extremely rare to find someone with hair that is both curly and oily. Biologically, this makes sense, because the oils secreted by the sebaceous glands at the follicle can more easily travel down a straight shaft. Not all curly hair is naturally so. Many people choose to change their type by applying various treatments. One method is to wind the hair around rollers while it is wet. This causes hydrogen bonds to form between keratin molecules, giving a curved shape dependent of the size of the rollers.
Lots of people have hair that is curly enough to be called 'curly', however very few people have certain types of curly hair. One of my best friends, for example, has the most beautiful, smooth, tiny ringlets I've ever seen without ever putting a product in. That is rare. If you just have medium to big loops, deal with frizz, etc. it is probably just average curly hair. Report Abuse. i dont think its rare i know alot of peopl with natural curly hair. Id love curly hair because i have to put lots of hairspray and curling serum in my hair to keep it curly all day haha.
Nope, it's just as common if not more common then people that have straight hair. Curly hair is a dominant trait just like brown eyes or brown hair. All curly or wave hair is, is a hook or curve at the end of curly haired peoples hair follicle. Report Abuse. i dont think its rare i know alot of peopl with natural curly hair. Id love curly hair because i have to put lots of hairspray and curling serum in my hair to keep it curly all day haha.
genes and me » hair curl. Human hair comes with all sorts of colors, textures and shapes. Notably, African hair is more coiled and dry; Asian hair is straighter and thicker; and Caucasian hair is somewhere in between with around 45% having straight hair, 40% having wavy hair, and 15% having curly hair. It has been observed that oily hair is typically straight and that individuals with both curly and oily hair are extremely rare. One theory is that the oils secreted into the hair shaft by the sebaceous glands can travel down the shaft of straight hair more easily.
Blonde hair and brown  eyes, is actually the third rarest hair and eye color combination,  in the world, next to red hair and green (blue) eyes, and black  hair and green eyes. So, it's not completely RARE, but it isn't  common. 6 people found this useful. Isadora Duncan. 220,164 Contributions. 
Natural Curly Hair Fact #1- Multiple Curl Textures. It’s rare for people with naturally curly hair to have the exact same type of curls (loose curls, medium, tightly curled, kinky curls) growing consistently throughout their head. (Image by Sunnie Brook Jones – Paul Mitchell National Educator – Hair Assistants: Jo Jo Chavez and Tawny Lopez
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: i have curly hair and love it. over the years, in school, ive noticed more and more people wearing their hair naturally curly. i learned in biology last year that curly hair is a dominant gene which means curly hair is common. 