Metamorphism on a grander scale, called regional metamorphism, accompanies mountain-building activity. These metamorphic rocks pervade regions that have been subjected to intense pressures and temperatures during the development of mountain chains along boundaries between crustal plates. Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are metamorphosed by the heat from an igneous intrusion, such as limestone turning to marble along the contact zone. Some of the changes that occur in the older rock are due simply to the heat radiated from the igneous mass and to the pressures it cre
Metamorphism is the change of minerals or geologic texture (distinct arrangement of minerals) in pre-existing rocks (protoliths), without the protolith melting into liquid magma (a solid-state change). The change occurs primarily due to heat, pressure, and the introduction of chemically active fluids. Metamorphism produced with increasing pressure and temperature conditions is known as prograde metamorphism. Conversely, decreasing temperatures and pressure characterize ret
To understand metamorphic rocks you must first know what metamorphism is. Metamorphism is the changing of one rock into another rock. Metamorphism occurs under the influence of extreme heat, pressure, and/or chemical fluids. A rock undergoing metamorphism changes the texture and mineral composition of the rock but never leaves solid form.
There are four types of metamorphism. Contact metamorphism is a result of heat generated from a nearby magma source. Regional metamorphism consists of change through intense heat and pressure. Hydrothermal metamorphism is a chemical change that occurs when hot fluids circulate through out the rock. Metamorphism occurs under the influence of extreme heat, pressure, and/or chemical fluids. A rock undergoing metamorphism changes the texture and mineral composition of the rock but never leaves solid form.
Regional Metamorphism. Metamorphism on a grander scale, called regional metamorphism, accompanies mountain-building activity. These metamorphic rocks pervade regions that have been subjected to intense pressures and temperatures during the development of mountain chains along boundaries between crustal plates. Metamorphism that occurs in the course of increasing temperatures is called progressive. It is accompanied by the loss of volatile components (dehydration, decarbonatization) by the initial rocks. The opposite processes against a background of decreasing temperature are termed regressive m
Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are metamorphosed by the heat from an igneous intrusion, such as limestone turning to marble along the contact zone. Some of the changes that occur in the older rock are due simply to the heat radiated from the igneous mass and to the pressures it creates. Metamorphism that occurs in the course of increasing temperatures is called progressive. It is accompanied by the loss of volatile components (dehydration, decarbonatization) by the initial rocks. The opposite processes against a background of decreasing temperature are termed regressive metamorphism.
Regional metamorphism occurs due to the change in pressure and  temperature over a large region of the crust. It is the result of  high pressure and elevated temperatures th … at are associated with  deep burial in an organic belt. Answered. Regional metamorphism is a widespread precess involving both heat and directed pressure, and is involved in things like mountain building and activity deep with in the core.
Regional metamorphism is metamorphism that occurs over broad areas of the crust. Most regionally metamorphosed rocks occur in areas that have undergone deformation during an orogenic event resulting in mountain belts that have since been eroded to expose the metamorphic rocks. 
Local Metamorphism. Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are metamorphosed by the heat from an igneous intrusion, such as limestone turning to marble along the contact zone. Some of the changes that occur in the older rock are due simply to the heat radiated from the igneous mass and to the pressures it creates. Regional Metamorphism. Metamorphism on a grander scale, called regional metamorphism, accompanies mountain-building activity. These metamorphic rocks pervade regions that have been subjected to intense pressures and temperatures during the development of mountain chains along boundaries between crustal plates.