Formation [edit]. River deltas form when a river carrying sediment reaches either (1) a body of standing water, such as a lake, ocean, or reservoir, (2) another river that cannot remove the sediment quickly enough to stop delta formation, or (3) an inland region where the water spreads out and deposits sediments. This occurs where a river enters an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, reservoir, or (more rarely) another river that cannot transport away the supplied sediment. Despite a popular legend, this use of the word delta was not coined by Herodotus.
One of the world s largest river deltas is the Nile Delta, located in northern Egypt, where the Nile River expands and drains into the Mediterranean Sea. The Nile is considered to be an arcuate delta (arc-shaped), because it resembles a triangle or lotus flower when seen from above. 
A Delta is the land formed by sediment deposited by the end stages of a river. It often has a trianglular shape like the Greek letter Delta, hence the name. Usually its where the river meets the sea or other body of water. In geographical terms, a delta is defined as the alluvial deposit at the mouth of a river........ It is usually triangular in shape......... The term delta is also used to define a difference in temperature.......
Define delta in geography? A river delta is an extension of a river's mouth, where the faster flowing water from a river, suddenly slows when it reaches an open body of water (e.g. a lake) and so deposi … ts the suspended sediments in a zone around the mouth, causing an elevated river bar.
2. an object resembling a capital delta in shape. 3. (Physical Geography) (capital when part of name) the flat alluvial area at the mouth of some rivers where the mainstream splits up into several distributaries: the Mississippi Delta. 4. (Mathematics) maths a finite increment in a variable. 
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. A delta is a landform where the mouth of a river flows into an ocean, sea, desert, estuary, lake or another river. It builds up sediment outwards into the flat area which the river's flow encounters (as a deltaic deposit) transported by the water and set down as the currents slow. A delta is where a river divides in a low triangular area before entering a larger body of water. Good luck with your homework, kid. Come again. Check out this website: http://web.bryant.edu/~dlm1/sc366/deltas...
Sacramento Delta at flood stage, early 2009. A river delta is a landform that forms from deposition of sediment carried by a river as the flow leaves its mouth and enters slower-moving or standing water. This occurs where a river enters an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, reservoir, or (more rarely) another river that cannot transport away the supplied sediment. Despite a popular legend, this use of the word delta was not coined by Herodotus.
A river delta is an extension of a river's mouth, where the faster flowing water from a river, suddenly slows when it reaches an open body of water (e.g. a lake) and so deposi … ts the suspended sediments in a zone around the mouth, causing an elevated river bar. 
A river delta is low-lying plain or landform that occurs at the mouth of a river near where the river flows into the ocean or other body of water. Deltas are important to both human activities and fish and other wildlife because they are normally home to very fertile soil as well as a large amount of vegetation. The upper delta plain is the area nearest to the land. It is usually the area with the least water and highest elevation. The subaqueous delta is the portion of the delta that is closest to the sea or body of water into which the river flows. This area is usually past the shoreline and it is below water level.
Identification. A delta is a triangular-shaped area of sediment--consisting of small rocks, sand, clay and silt--that forms where a river flows into an ocean or lake. Deltas, unlike many land forms that are carved out of land by water, are actually built up over time as water drops more sediment