Anatomy. There are two attachments of the biceps tendon at the shoulder joint. Your shoulder is a ball-and-socket joint made up of three bones: your upper arm bone (humerus), your shoulder blade (scapula), and your collarbone (clavicle). The head of your upper arm bone fits into a rounded socket in your shoulder blade.
The biceps muscle has two tendons that attach it to bones in the shoulder. The long head attaches to the top of the shoulder socket (glenoid). The glenoid is lined with soft cartilage called the labrum. This tissue helps the head of the upper arm fit into the shoulder socket.
The shoulder is a closely fitted joint. The humerus (upper arm bone), certain muscle tendons, and associated bursa (fluid-filled sacs that cushion bone to prevent friction), move back and forth through a very tight archway of bone and ligament called the coracoacromial arch.
The biceps muscle bends the arm at the elbow and rotates the forearm in order to allow the palm of the hand to face upward. It is located at the front of the arm and is attached by the biceps tendon to the shoulder blade (scapula) and the radius bone.
A combination of muscles and tendons keeps your arm bone centered in your shoulder socket. These tissues are called the rotator cuff. They cover the head of your upper arm bone and attach it to your shoulder blade. The upper end of the biceps muscle has two tendons that attach it to bones in the shoulder.
Tendons attach muscles to bones. Your biceps tendons attach the biceps muscle to bones in the shoulder and in the elbow. If you tear the biceps tendon at the shoulder, you may lose some strength in your arm and be unable to forcefully turn your arm from palm down to palm up.
Long head of biceps tendonitis is an inflammation or irritation of the upper biceps tendon. This strong, cord-like structure connects the upper end of the biceps muscle to the bones in the shoulder. Pain in the front of the shoulder and weakness are common symptoms of biceps tendonitis.
The biceps tendons attach the biceps muscle to the shoulder. Your shoulder is a ball-and-socket joint made up of three bones: your upper arm bone (humerus), your shoulder blade (scapula), and your collarbone (clavicle). The head of your upper arm bone fits into a rounded socket in your shoulder blade.
The biceps is attached to the arm bones by tough connective tissues called tendons. The tendons that connect the biceps muscle to the shoulder joint in two places are called the proximal biceps tendons. The tendon that attaches the biceps muscle to the forearm bones (radius and ulna) is called the distal biceps tendon.