1000 BC People start using the leaves of the tobacco plant for smoking and chewing. How and why tobacco was first used in the Americas no one knows. The first users are thought to have been the Mayan civilizations of Central America. Its use was gradually adopted throughout the nations of Central and most of North and South America. 
United States Library of Congress. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L) is a narcotic plant native to South America, which was an important part of Maya civilization religion during the Classic Period (~300-900 AD). 1  See the article Tobacco History for details about the domestication and use of the plant. The Maya word for the tobacco plant and a form of tobacco ground together with lime is moy (in Tzotzil) and may (Tzeltal). The snuff form is called elder brother (bankilal) or angel (anjel).
It is presumed that though the vessel could contain tobacco leaves, the Maya were also using tobacco powder from which they prepared strong alcoholic beverages, snuff tobacco and even use it as antidote for snakebite. The tobacco of that time was much stronger than the one we are smoking now. The nicotiana rustica was able to cause hallucinations and could be also used against bug and snake bites.
Mayan Herbal Medicine. The Mayan civilization of Central America was very advanced in its use of herbs for medicine and religion. Most of the herbs the Mayans used were from the Central American region. Cacao or the cocoa plant was also used by the Mayans. Archaeologists have found cacao in jars that have been dug up in old Mayan ruins. They have also found references of its use in hieroglyphics. Tobacco has been found in the history of the Mayans and a good amount of snuff tubes have also been found. It is believed that the tubes were used in rituals and that the tobacco was used in doses so high that they could even induce visions and mind altering experiences
Tobacco has a long history in the Americas. The Mayan Indians of Mexico carved drawings in stone showing tobacco use. These drawings date back to somewhere between 600 to 900 A.D. Tobacco was grown by American Indians before the Europeans came from England, Spain, France, and Italy to North America. 
There are many pieces of archaeological evidence in reference to the use of entheogens early in the history of Mesoamerica. Olmec burial sites with remains of the Bufo toad (Bufo marinus), Maya mushroom effigies, and Spanish writings all point to a heavy involvement with psychoactive substances in the Aztec lifestyle. The Florentine codex contains multiple references to the use of psychoactive plants among the Aztecs.
View. comments. The first hard evidence that the ancient Mayans smoked has revealed tobacco so strong it was virtually 'hallucinogenic'. Tobacco traces were discovered inside a 1,300-year-old Mayan flask which effectively had 'tobacco' written on it in hieroglyphs. However, the tobacco detected in the 'very small' flask may not have been used for smoking. Smoking pot: This Mayan flask from around 700AD has been proved to have contained tobacco, matching the hieroglyh on the front which translates roughly as 'House of his/her tobacco'. 'This was very strong tobacco, much stronger than it is today,' Jennifer Loughmiller-Newman, an archaeologist at the University of Albany in New York, told MSNBC. 'Nicotiana rustica was nearly hallucinogenic.'.
The Maya-one of the greatest civilizations ever, was meant to leave a trace in the world's history. Their stone towns, profound knowledge of astronomy and many other monuments they left behind are still waiting for decryption. However one of their most favorite pastimes was smoking or even drinking tobacco. Yes, they knew the secret of smoking a strong mind-blowing tobacco and even drinking it. Some historians assumed their tobacco smoke was so strong it could even cause hallucinations. The tobacco of that time was much stronger than the one we are smoking now. The nicotiana rustica was able to cause hallucinations and could be also used against bug and snake bites.
View full size image. Traces of nicotine discovered in a Mayan flask dating back more than 1,000 years represent the first physical evidence of tobacco use by the Mayans, researchers say. Their analysis of the samples extracted from the flask identified nicotine, the signature alkaloid in tobacco, as a major component. That indicated the vessel was likely used to hold tobacco leaves, the researchers wrote in the study.