These are the lyrics of the song My way by Usher Ooh, Ooh, Hey Yo see it's rare that you find people like us Cause all ya'll other (look) out there doing what i'm doing Or trying to do what im doing, but you can't Cause I do what I do my way What about you huhhhh, huhhh, Come On!!!! Best Answer: Usher has a song called my way and Kid and Play did a rap song called my way years ago where I learned the Kid and Play kick dance. Oops to much information!lol!
Paul Anka heard the original 1967 French pop song, Comme d'habitude (As Usual) performed by Claude Francois, françois while on holiday in the south Of. France he flew To paris to negotiate the rights to the. Song in a 2007, interview he, Said i thought it was a bad, record but there was something in.. it This article is about the song popularized by Frank Sinatra. For the French song on which the melody of My Way is based, see Comme d'habitude. For the Fetty Wap song, see My Way (Fetty Wap song) . For the Limp Bizkit song, see My Way (Limp Bizkit song) .
This originated as the French song called Comme D'Habitude (translation: As Usual), written by the composers Jacques Revaux and Gilles Thibault. They took it to the French pop star Claude Francois, who tweaked it a bit (earning a co-writer credit) and recorded the song in 1967, where it was a hit in parts of Europe. The Gipsy Kings recorded a Spanish version of the song called A Mi Manera.. Before Paul Anka wrote the English lyrics, a young David Bowie took a shot at writing them but couldn't come up with anything he was happy with. My Way is licensed sparingly, especially the Sinatra version.
My Way  is a song popularized by Frank Sinatra. Its lyrics were written by Paul Anka and set to music based on the French song  Comme d'habitude  co-composed, co-written and performed in 1967 by Claude Francois. François'anka S english lyrics are unrelated to the Original french. song This article is about the song popularized by Frank Sinatra. For the French song on which the melody of My Way is based, see Comme d'habitude. For the Fetty Wap song, see My Way (Fetty Wap song) . For the Limp Bizkit song, see My Way (Limp Bizkit song) .
My Way  is a song popularized by Frank Sinatra. Its lyrics were written by Paul Anka and set to music based on the French song  Comme d'habitude  co-composed, co-written and performed in 1967 by Claude Francois. françois This article is about the song popularized by Frank Sinatra. For the French song on which the melody of My Way is based, see Comme d'habitude. For the Fetty Wap song, see My Way (Fetty Wap song) . For the Limp Bizkit song, see My Way (Limp Bizkit song) .
My way was populurized by Frank Sinatra but, it was wrote by Paul Anka. Who is the Original artist who sang the song Pretty Paper? It was written by Willie Nelson, but first recorded by Roy Orbison  around 1962 or 63.
It builds in intensity and powers to a big finish, which Sinatra could really sell with his declaration, I did it my way.. In America, this was merely a modest hit on the charts, as it didn't jibe with the spirit of 1969. In the UK, however, it was a runaway hit, re-entering the charts six times between 1970-1971. The Gipsy Kings recorded a Spanish version of the song called A Mi Manera.. Before Paul Anka wrote the English lyrics, a young David Bowie took a shot at writing them but couldn't come up with anything he was happy with. My Way is licensed sparingly, especially the Sinatra version.
OLD BLUE EYES: But Frank grew to hate his iconic song. Forty years ago this week Frank Sinatra released My Way. Although it peaked at only number five it was to remain in the UK charts for the best part of two and a half years and was to become the song which defined Sinatra himself. “I said hey, I can write it but I’m not the guy to sing it. It was for Frank, no one else.”. Anka was right. My Way’s success was not only down to the lyrics and the melody it was down to the man who first sang it. My Way was not simply the perfect swansong it was the perfect swansong for Frank Sinatra