The postgraduate Bachelor's degree With Honours or Baccalaureatus Cum Honore degree is a consecutive academic degree. It’s the continuation of a completed (Honours) Bachelor's degree program in the same field. Very rarely is the term used for the master's degree; for example, the four-year undergraduate degree at Ancient Scottish universities is abbreviated MA (Hons).
The British undergraduate degree classification system is a grading structure for undergraduate degrees (bachelor's degrees and integrated master's degrees) in the United Kingdom. Informally, the third-class honours degree is referred to as a gentleman's degree (cf. the gentleman's C in the U.S.), or a Thora, after Thora Hird, or Douglas, after Douglas Hurd.
BA or BA (Hons). A Bachelors or Honours Level covers degrees with titles such as Bachelor of Arts, BA (Hons), Bachelor of Science, BSc (Hons), Bachelor of Engineering, BEng (Hons), Bachelor of Laws, and LLB (Hons). These are standard higher education qualifications recognised across the UK and Europe. 
Hi, not sure what country you are based in, but if you're part of the EU, then BSC (Hons) is part of a 10-tier referencing system that all learning institutions in the EU adher to. The (Hons) part is in no way related to your grade. You can still earn an honours Hons degree, or simpley a pass. In Scotland around 1960, an Ordinary or General degree (MA or BSc) took three years and a combination of five or more subjects. Two subjects had to be studied for two years, and the rest for one. An Honours degree took four years, and four subjects.
It also refers to the rare postgraduate consecutive bachelor's degree With Honours or Baccalaureatus Cum Honore degree with the requirement to first complete a bachelor's degree. Very rarely is the term used for the master's degree; for example, the four-year undergraduate degree at Ancient Scottish universities is abbreviated MA (Hons).
A Bachelor’s degree, or Bachelor’s degree (Hons), are both academic degrees given to undergraduate students. Though these two are both academic degrees, they only have a very slight difference. In many countries, the bachelor’s degree is differentiated as an ordinary, or pass degree, and honours degree. One can also see that, in order to get a job, a Bsc (hons) degree is more beneficial than a Bsc degree. If two persons, one with a Bsc degree, and another with a Bsc (hons) degree, apply for a job, the candiate with the Bsc (Hons) degree will be given the first preference.
The term Honours degree has different meanings for different degrees. Most commonly it is an award in connection with undergraduate bachelor's degree variations. Very rarely is the term used for the master's degree; for example, the four-year undergraduate degree at Ancient Scottish universities is abbreviated MA (Hons).
In England what does (Hons) after a degree mean, i.e. BSc (Hons) Business Studies Please provide a link to a source for the answer, not Wikipedia. thanks. But you can fail your Hons and end up with an ordinary degree anyway. It doesn't mean you have especially good grades to get Hons, because you can have a 1st, a 2:1, a 2:2 or a 3rd, and a 3rd is pretty bad! So it's just the length of the course and how much you've studied-and passed. Source(s): MA (Hons) ;)
Report Abuse. Nobody will win your debate, because what (Hons) means has varied not only from country to country, but from time to time. In Scotland around 1960, an Ordinary or General degree (MA or BSc) took three years and a combination of five or more subjects. Two subjects had to be studied for two years, and the rest for one. An Honours degree took four years, and four subjects.