Nitrogen fixation is the natural process by which atmospheric nitrogen (N2) is converted into ammonia (NH3), or nitrate forms. This step is important for the continuation of ecosystems because plants depend on nitrates and nitrites, and nitrogen gas is not a usable form for plants to intake. Nitrogen fixation is the conversion of nitrogen that is found in  the atmosphere into ammonia-which is a form of nitrogen that can  be used by organisms.   Bacteria ar … e cructial in this cycle because it is bacteria that  carry of this fixation. 3 people found this useful. Judy Olmsted. 79,537 Contributions.
nitrogen fixation. The process by which free nitrogen from the air is combined with other elements to form organic compounds that plants can use as nutrients. Cyanobacteria and certain other forms of bacteria, especially those that live in the roots of legumes, convert gaseous nitrogen into organic compounds. 1. The conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds, such as ammonia, by natural agencies or various industrial processes. 2. The conversion by certain soil microorganisms, such as rhizobia, of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants and other organisms can assimilate.
n. 1. (Biology) the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into nitrogen compounds by certain bacteria, such as Rhizobium in the root nodules of legumes. 2. (Chemistry) a process, such as the Haber process, in which atmospheric nitrogen is converted into a nitrogen compound, used esp for the manufacture of fertilizer. 1. The conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds, such as ammonia, by natural agencies or various industrial processes. 2. The conversion by certain soil microorganisms, such as rhizobia, of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants and other organisms can assimilate.
Therefore, nitrogen fixation is essential for agriculture and the manufacture of fertilizer. It is also an important process in the manufacture of explosives (e.g. gunpowder, dynamite, TNT, etc.). Nitrogen fixation occurs naturally in the air by means of lightning. Biological nitrogen fixation can include conversion to nitrogen dioxide. All biological nitrogen fixation is done by way of nitrogenase metalo-enzymes which contain iron, molybdenum, or vanadium. Microorganisms that can fix nitrogen are prokaryotes (both bacteria and archaea, distributed throughout their respective kingdoms) called diazotrophs. Biological nitrogen fixation was discovered by the German agronomist Hermann Hellriegel and Dutch microbiologist Martinus Beijerinck. Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF) occurs when atmospheric nitrogen is converted to ammonia by an enzyme called a nitrogenase.
Previous (Nitrogen dioxide). Next (Nitroglycerin). Nitrogen fixation is the process by which nitrogen is taken from its relatively inert molecular form (N 2) in the atmosphere and converted into nitrogen compounds useful for other chemical processes (such as, notably, ammonia, nitrate, and nitrogen dioxide). Biological Nitrogen Fixation (BNF) occurs when atmospheric nitrogen is converted to ammonia by a bacterial enzyme called nitrogenase. Microorganisms that fix nitrogen are called diazotrophs.
The other nitrogen fixing agents are found in the roots of leguminous plants such as beans, peas and clover. The roots of these plants have nodules which contain the bacteria that convert the atmospheric nitrogen into compounds which plants can use. Ammonia is one of the more common modified forms of nitrogen that plants absorb from the soil. The process by which atmospheric nitrogen is converted into compounds such as ammonia that plants can readily use is known as nitrogen fixation. Just as the term suggests, nitrogen fixation involves the fixing of nitrogen into the soil
The nitrogen fixation (N 2 -fixation) process between the legume plant and rhizobia bacteria is referred to as a symbiotic (mutually beneficial) relationship. Each organism receives something from the other and gives back something in return. 
Nitrogen fixation, natural and synthetic, is essential for all forms of life because nitrogen is required to biosynthesize basic building blocks of plants, animals and other life forms, e.g., nucleotides for DNA and RNA and amino acids for proteins. Biological nitrogen fixation was discovered by the German agronomist Hermann Hellriegel and Dutch microbiologist Martinus Beijerinck. Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF) occurs when atmospheric nitrogen is converted to ammonia by an enzyme called a nitrogenase.