Generally, the platypus is a very shy creature which will avoid contact with humans. However, the male platypus also has the distinction of being the world's most poisonous mammal. This creature has a small, hollow, poisonous spur on the back of each of its hind feet. The poison cannot kill a person, but it will cause swelling and excruciating pain. The poison is enough to kill an animal the size of a small dog, and the platypus will only use it in self-defense.
The platypus is classified among egg-laying mammals-monotremes. Male platypuses have a poison apparatus on their hind legs. There are poison glands in the thighs and a hollow spur near the heel. The sting is not dangerous to humans, but is extremely painful and causes rapid swelling in the stung area. It may also cause increased temperature. For smaller mammals, like dogs, the sting can be fatal. The purpose of the platypus's poison system has not been satisfactorily explained.
The male platypus has a spur on either hind foot that excretes venom. Though females are also born with the spurs, they fall off before adulthood. Aside from two other mammals -- certain species of shrew and solenodons -- harboring venom is a trait usually reserved for reptiles and amphibians. 
The platypus is among nature's most unlikely animals. In fact, the first scientists to examine a specimen believed they were the victims of a hoax. The animal is best described as a hodgepodge of more familiar species: the duck (bill and webbed feet), beaver (tail), and otter (body and fur). Males are also venomous. 
Males have a pair of spurs on their hind limbs which secrete venom that is only seasonally active to breeding season, supporting the theory that the use of venom is for competition of mates only, not protection. The different chemicals in the venom have a range of effects from lowering blood pressure to causing pain and increasing blood flow around the wound. Coagulating effects have been seen during experiments on laboratory animals, but this has not been observed consistently.
Return to Platypus Page. The platypus is the only Australian mammal known to be venomous. Adult males have a pointed spur (about 15 millimetres long) located just above the heel of each hind leg, which can be used to inject poison produced by a gland in the thigh (the crural gland). However, spurring is painful-in part, because platypus spurs are sharp and can be driven in with great force. As well, platypus poison triggers severe pain in the affected limb and can result in quite spectacular localised swelling. No one actually knows how dangerous platypus venom is to other platypus.
It is one of the few venomous  mammals; the male Platypus has a spur on the hind foot which  delivers a poison capable of killing a small dog or causing severe  pain to humans-pain which can last for months. The unique  features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study  of biology. This creature has a small, hollow, poisonous spur on the back of each of its hind feet. The poison cannot kill a person, but it will cause swelling and excruciating pain. The poison is enough to kill an animal the size of a small dog, and the platypus will only use it in self-defense.
The platypus is a very interesting animal. It has a beak that looks like it belongs to a duck, which it uses to dig up invertebrates from lake beds. It is also one of only mammals to lay eggs. Just because they are a little peculiar doesn’t mean you should let your guard down. They are more dangerous then you think! The male platypus has a spur on its hind foot that contains venom, which is lethal enough to kill a dog! This makes them one of the few venomous mammals on the planet! http://www.bbc.co.uk/nature/species/Platypus. 
The venom is produced in the crural glands of the male, which are kidney-shaped alveolar glands located in the upper thigh connected by a thin-walled duct to a calcaneus spur, or calcar, on each hind limb. The different chemicals in the venom have a range of effects from lowering blood pressure to causing pain and increasing blood flow around the wound. Coagulating effects have been seen during experiments on laboratory animals, but this has not been observed consistently.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans. The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New South Wales. Until the early 20th century, it was hunted for its fur, but it is now protected throughout its range.