Although the only way to accurately know if your dog has a fever is by using a rectal thermometer, knowing how to feel a dog’s temperature quickly when you do not have a thermometer can make a big difference. 1 In a dog without dental disease, the gums should be moist, shiny, and a similar pink color to our own gums. 2  Lift up the dog’s lip behind the upper canine tooth, and place the tip of your forefinger against the gum to assess temperature and moistness.
1 If you prefer, pet ear thermometers are available for taking a dog's temperature. 2  However, keep in mind that they are not as accurate as a rectal thermometer. 3  Keep in mind that though you can use an oral human thermometer to measure dog temperature, a digital pet thermometer is best. 1 Take him or her to your veterinarian if you are not able to take your dog's temperature. 2  Do not attempt to take your dog's temperature if he or she is very upset or acting hyper. 3  Doing so could cause injury to you or your dog. Wait until your dog calms down before attempting to insert the
Most thermometers intended for use in human ears do not work well for this purpose. To take your dog’s temperature, first coat the thermometer with a lubricant such as petroleum gel or baby oil. Next, gently insert the thermometer about one inch into your dog’s anus and wait for results. Most thermometers sold for this purpose will take less than 60 seconds to register. 
A temperature of 100.5° to 102°F degrees is normal. Taking your dog's temperature by ear. When used properly, ear thermometers are a reliable and less invasive way to take your dog's temperature. An ear thermometer works by measuring infrared heat waves that are emitted from the dog's eardrum area. Be sure to place the thermometer deep into the horizontal ear canal to obtain an accurate reading.
A dog's normal ear temperature is between 100° to 103°F. Note that ear thermometers are generally more expensive than rectal thermometers and, if not used properly, are less accurate. When to contact your vet. Any time a dog's temperature falls below 99°F or rises above 103°F, you should contact your veterinarian. When used properly, ear thermometers are a reliable and less invasive way to take your dog's temperature. An ear thermometer works by measuring infrared heat waves that are emitted from the dog's eardrum area. Be sure to place the thermometer deep into the horizontal ear canal to obtain an accurate reading.
1 Unfortunately, there is no completely accurate way of taking a dog’s temperature besides using a reliable and well calibrated rectal thermometer. 2  If you do manage to find one, know that for dogs, a normal rectal temperature is between 38.4°C to 39.4°C (101°-103°F). 1 In a dog without dental disease, the gums should be moist, shiny, and a similar pink color to our own gums. 2  Lift up the dog’s lip behind the upper canine tooth, and place the tip of your forefinger against the gum to assess temperature and moistness.
How to Take Dog Temperature Without Thermometer. A dog’s normal body temperature is slightly higher than humans. Anything between 101 degrees Fahrenheit (F) and 102.5 F is considered average. Since humans normal body temperature runs between 97.6 and 99.6 degrees Fahrenheit, your dog may seem warm to you even if they aren’t. Dog fever can often go undetected, and the surest way to tell if their body temperature is elevated is to check it with a rectal dog thermometer. If you don’t have a dog thermometer and you think your pet may be running a temperature, there are a few key signs to look for.
A. You will need a rectal thermometer to take your dog's or cat's temperature. You do not need a special 'dog' or 'cat' thermometer – you can use one designed for human use. 
It's relatively easy and all you need is a thermometer. Learning how to take your dog's temperature properly can help determine if immediate veterinary care is needed. Your dog's normal rectal temperature is 100.5 to 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Higher temperatures may necessitate a trip to your veterinarian, depending on other symptoms. Feeling the ears, nose or head is not considered a reliable method; you have to determine your dog's internal temperature to find out for certain.
How to take a small dog's temperature. |Rectal Thermometer |Ear Thermometer|No-touch Thermometer|Video. If your dog seems to be off his game but there's no apparent cause, it's a good idea (and a reassuring one) to take his temperature and see if there is a physical problem. Make sure your dog is in a comfortable position away from any cold or heat source that might distort his body temperature before you take his temperature. It's also a good idea, with the help of your vet's office or friends, to test the rectal thermometer temperature with the non-rectal type you want to use.