The phrase genetic engineering, unfortunately, often conjures up images of macabre experiments resulting in Frankenstein-like monsters and the cold-hearted use of genetic information to create new social classes depending on our genes, as in the 1997 film Gattaca. {2} However, genetic engineering can simply be defined as the manipulation or alteration of the genetic structure of a single cell or organism.
This darkness in the movie provides to the dull nature of genetic engineering, and the loss that comes with the lack in ability to decide ones fate himself. This darkness speaks volumes to the morality of genetic engineering. Painting the film darkly created a negative perception of genetic engineering. One such film GATTACA observes the effects of genetic engineering on earth in the future. This dystopian film can be compared to John Scalzi’s take on genetic engineering. Further, the perception of genetic engineering over the years by influential individuals has shaped how genetic engineering is viewed today.
By creating comparisons between today’s technology and the future science of GATTACA, it appears that the scientific advances portrayed in the film could become a reality within several years; this allows the audience to question what social implications could result from a genetically discriminatory society. The scene in GATTACA where a person’s future can be mapped out at birth may appear to be farfetched considering the current stages of genetics. It is, however, very possible that determining future prejudicial diseases will be viable in the near future.
Background Information about Genetic Engineering: Genetic engineering is the main focal point in GATTACA, and today this field of bioengineering is one of the fastest growing areas in science. The scene in GATTACA where a person’s future can be mapped out at birth may appear to be farfetched considering the current stages of genetics. It is, however, very possible that determining future prejudicial diseases will be viable in the near future.
Gattaca and Genetic Engineering Essay. Human determination can overcome all obstacles. Summary of the Gattaca movie. Gattaca is a biological movie that talks about human genetic modification where children are pre implanted with genes to enable them posses the best traits when they are born. Gattaca talks about the technology that is currently being used in reproduction. The movie questions the eligibility of technology in reproduction since the consequences are not as desirable as the scientists would love them to be. The movie incorporates genetic engineering, destiny and human determination.
GATTACA a film based on the pros and cons of genetic engineering can be used to understand John Scalzi’s views on genetic engineering. This film is based on the ethics of genetic engineering. Society in this novel has come to classifying individuals as either valid or invalid. One such film GATTACA observes the effects of genetic engineering on earth in the future. This dystopian film can be compared to John Scalzi’s take on genetic engineering. Further, the perception of genetic engineering over the years by influential individuals has shaped how genetic engineering is viewed today.
Human determination versus genetic engineering. The movie Gattaca brings to balance the issue of human determination, destiny and genetic engineering. The scientists have strongly asserted that human genetic modification has only gotten better since the first time a mammal was successfully cloned. Gattaca talks about the technology that is currently being used in reproduction. The movie questions the eligibility of technology in reproduction since the consequences are not as desirable as the scientists would love them to be. The movie incorporates genetic engineering, destiny and human determination.
Andrew Niccol’s film, “Gattaca” describes a world where genetic engineering has become norm. Based on a society where intellect is built not on diligence and determination but instead genetic determinism, the film explores oppression in society, displaying just how easily corruption can become. Race, sex, height and gender; discrimination of which is unseen in the world of Gattaca. Vincent makes it apparent that genes have become destiny. In a world deemed as unjust in acts of discrimination, the society where Gattaca is based proves otherwise; rejecting both the desires and dreams of un-enhanced individuals known as the in-valids.
Genetic Screening: Testing for Disease at Birth. At the beginning of the film GATTACA, the protagonist Vincent Freedman narrates his history to the audience, and explains that his society has been affected by advances in genetic engineering. The scene in GATTACA where a person’s future can be mapped out at birth may appear to be farfetched considering the current stages of genetics. It is, however, very possible that determining future prejudicial diseases will be viable in the near future.