Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. Dr Aditya Shetty ◉ and Radswiki et al. Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder (also known as frozen shoulder) is a condition characterised by thickening and contraction of the shoulder joint capsule and surrounding synovium. Adhesive capsulitis can rarely affect other sites such as the ankle 8. The incidence in the general population is thought to be 3-5%. Adhesive capsulitis typically affects women in the 5 th to 6 th decades of life, although patients with co-morbidities such as diabetes may develop the condition at earlier ages.
Capsule thickening. In a small number of patients the capsule thickens, and becomes a little opaque, like a frosted glass window. This stops the light reaching the back of the eye. If this happens, the sight become misty, and it can become difficult to see at night, or in sunlight. Laser treatment makes a small hole in the centre of the capsule, and can restore the vision to how it was after the cataract operation. The treatment does not hurt, and is hardly noticeable. It takes about fifteen minutes; the laser machine is in the outpatient clinic.
Capsular contracture is the term used to describe scar tissue that can form around breast implants which may cause the breasts to harden, may cause the breasts to look or feel different, and may cause some discomfort from the tightening of the capsule. 
This is not a re-growth of your cataract, but is due to the thickening of the back of the lens capsule. This is called posterior lens capsule opacification, sometimes shortened to 'PCO'. PCO happens because more cells grow over the back of the capsule causing it to thicken. There is a risk of developing posterior lens capsule opacification (PCO) following your cataract surgery. PCO is a complication that causes the back of the lens capsule (which holds your artificial lens in place) to thicken which causes cloudy vision.
1 Class III: There is moderate breast implant contracture. 2  There is palpable thickening of the implant capsule and hardening of the breasts that can be assessed on examination. 3  There is a visible change in the shape of the breast. 4  Class IV: This is known as severe breast implant contracture. 
Capsular thickening. The capsule is the outer bag of the natural lens that is left behind during surgery to hold the artificial lens or implant. Over time, in some patients, this outer shell becomes cloudy, a condition known as capsular thickening or secondary cataract. The patient will notice vision becoming blurred – just like it did with the original cataract. Capsular opacification (secondary cataract) is treated using a YAG laser and this is a brief and painless out-patient procedure. The pupil will be dilated at the time and the laser makes a new clear pathway in the area of the pupil, allowing light to reach the back of the eye.
Summary of Thickening of the inferior glenohumeral capsule: an ultrasound sign for shoulder capsular contracture.. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this retrospective study was to measure the inferior glenohumeral capsule thickness of shoulders clinically affected by capsular contracture by comparison to the contralateral asymptomatic side. METHODS: RESULTS: The average thickness was 4.0 mm in shoulders with capsular contracture vs. 1.3 mm in asymptomatic contralateral shoulders (P. CONCLUSION: The thickness of the inferior capsule is measurable through ultrasound examination and appears to be increased in shoulders with
Treatment. Capsular opacification (secondary cataract) is treated using a YAG laser and this is a brief and painless out-patient procedure. The pupil will be dilated at the time and the laser makes a new clear pathway in the area of the pupil, allowing light to reach the back of the eye.
Posterior capsule opacification (PCO) is a fairly common complication of cataract surgery. Sometimes you can develop a thickening of the back (posterior) of the lens capsule which holds your artificial lens in place. This thickening of the capsule causes your vision to become cloudy. If this happens you may need to have laser treatment to make vision clear again. There is a risk of developing posterior lens capsule opacification (PCO) following your cataract surgery. PCO is a complication that causes the back of the lens capsule (which holds your artificial lens in place) to thicken which causes cloudy vision.