Functions of Lipids. A lipid is a non-soluble molecular organic compound comprised of hydrogen and carbon. As far as their purpose in the human body goes, lipids are of crucial importance for both energy storage and cell membrane development. Plants and animals alike contain lipids which they depend on for energy. Gram for gram, a lipid contains more than twice the amount of energy found in carbohydrates. 
Cholesterol is a type of lipid (fat). Lipids are substances that do not dissolve in water but are soluble in organic solvents such as chloroform or dry cleaning fluids. Other important types of lipid include triglycerides and fatty acids. Lipids have several important roles in the body, providing: 1  a source and store of energy. 2  an important part of the membrane surrounding every body cell. 3  the basic building blocks from which several hormones (chemical messengers) and bile acids (digestive juices) are made. 4  components of the nervous system
There are four main types of lipids which are important to living cells or the human body. These are: Phospholipids-which are the main component of cell membranes and organ … elle membranes Triglycerides-which are important for the storage of energy Signalling molecules-various lipids (eg. Some familiar lipids are fats (ex: lard and butter) and oils (ex: corn oil and soybean oil). Fat has several functions in the body: it is used for long term energy storage, it insulates against heat loss, and it forms a protective cushion around your major organs.
There are several functions of lipids in the human body. The main  function is to provide the muscles with energy. they store energy  and make up the cell membrane. lipids a … re also called fat. 6 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. Some familiar lipids are fats (ex: lard and butter) and oils (ex: corn oil and soybean oil). Fat has several functions in the body: it is used for long term energy storage, it insulates against heat loss, and it forms a protective cushion around your major organs.
Lipids are important fats that serve different roles in the human body. A common misconception is that fat is simply fattening. However, fat is probably the reason we are all here. Throughout history, there have been many instances when food was scarce. In fact, phospholipids are synthesized in the body to form cell and organelle membranes. In blood and body fluids, phospholipids form structures in which fat is enclosed and transported throughout the bloodstream. Sterols are the least common type of lipid. Cholesterol is perhaps the best well-known sterol.
Lipids are fatty, waxlike molecules found in the human body and other organisms. They serve several different roles in the body, including fueling it, storing energy for the future, sending signals through the body and being a constituent of cell membranes, which hold cells together. Triglycerides are lipids you obtain from food sources of fat, such as cooking oils, butter and animal fat. Triglycerides provide insulation that keeps you warm while protecting your internal organs with a layer of padding.
Triglycerides. Triglycerides are also called blood and body fat. As body fat, triglycerides play a role in energy storage. They also provide a layer of insulation under the skin and protective cushioning around the organs. Your body also uses triglycerides to make the myelin sheaths that surround nerve cells. A small bowl filled with sliced avocado. Photo Credit luknaja/iStock/Getty Images. Lipids are fats. In the body they take the form of phospholipids, cholesterol and fatty acids. Although fats play a role in obesity and disease, your body needs a certain amount of fat to function -- also known as essential body fat.
Despite their bad reputation, lipids -- fats and fatlike substances -- play a crucial role in your health. The problem is that many Americans eat too much fat and too much of the wrong kinds of fat, which leads to problems like high triglycerides, elevated cholesterol and weight gain. 