Constipation can lead to stomach ache and improper bowel movements can also cause gastric. Unhealthy and not so easy to digest food are common reasons behind having constipation. However, if you eat the right food, you can improve your bowel movements and improve stool consistency to pass out easily. Fiber food are soluble and easy to digest. What food can improve your bowel movements? Here are top 5 foods which can promote your bowel movements and prevents
As you can see, there are plenty of foods you can eat (or juice) to help repair and optimize your gut. The best way to maintain gut health, and regular bowel movements, is to eat a diet composed of whole, natural foods, that are high in both Macro and Micro-nutrients.
Whole Grains and Seeds. Other foods that can make you poop are whole grains and seeds. Whole grains (bran flakes, brown rice, fortified cereal and/or oat bran) are rich in fiber, which can ease constipation and increase the frequency of your bowel movements. Fiber stimulates bowel movements by pushing food through your intestines.
The rest passes undigested to your large intestine and eventually out of your body as waste. The ease with which your large intestine, or colon, releases this waste largely depends on what you eat and drink. The best foods to eat for healthy bowel movements are those that are high in fiber.
Fruits: Fresh fruits especially banana is known as a natural medicine to cure constipation and improve bowel movements. Other fruits such as apple, papaya, watermelon, berries, lemon, mango and grapes also improve stool consistency.
Include them in your diet to prevent constipation. Whole grains: These are easy to digest and are fiber rich food. Have whole grains and cereals such as wheat, rice, oatmeal, whole oats, millet, barley and quinoa in your diet as it helps improve bowel movements and reduces gastric too!
Yogurt. If you are wondering what to eat to have a bowel movement then yogurt is a good choice. Yogurt contains a healthy bacterium that protects your body from harmful free-agents like infections, viruses and diseases. It also improves the condition of your gastrointestinal system and encourages bowel movements.