The adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are endocrine glands that produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone and cortisol. They are found above the kidneys and consist of a series of layers with different structure and functions. Each gland has an outer cortex which produces steroid hormones and an inner medulla. The adrenal cortex itself is divided into three zones: zona glomerulosa, the zona fasciculata and the zona reticularis. The adrenal cortex produces a class of steroid hormones called corticosteroids, named according to their effects.
Hormones of the Adrenal Glands. The adrenal cortex and the adrenal medulla have very different functions. One of the main distinctions between them is that the hormones released by the adrenal cortex are necessary for life; those secreted by the adrenal medulla are not. They are located on top of each kidney. Their name directly relates to their location (ad —near or at; renes —kidneys). Each adrenal gland is comprised of two distinct structures—the outer part of the adrenal glands is called the adrenal cortex. The inner region is known as the adrenal medulla.
The adrenal glands are two, triangular-shaped organs that measure about 1.5 inches in height and 3 inches in length. They are located on top of each kidney. Their name directly relates to their location (ad —near or at; renes —kidneys). Each adrenal gland is comprised of two distinct structures—the outer part of the adrenal glands is called the adrenal cortex. The inner region is known as the adrenal medulla.
The adrenal glands are tiny organs that rest on top of each kidney. Despite their small size, the adrenal glands play an important role in the body, producing numerous hormones that impact our development and growth, affect our ability to deal with stress, and help to regulate kidney function. The medulla, or inner part of the adrenal glands, produces the hormones norepinephrine and epinephrine, which regulate the fight or flight response in the body, the body's reaction to stressful events.
The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them. 
Tumors of the adrenal glands can secrete excess hormones, causing an increase in blood pressure or heart rate and reducing immune function. Disorders that result in decreased adrenal gland function, such as autoimmune diseases or cancer, can lead to low blood sugar and heart failure. The medulla, or inner part of the adrenal glands, produces the hormones norepinephrine and epinephrine, which regulate the fight or flight response in the body, the body's reaction to stressful events.
Adrenal glands work interactively with the hypothalamus and pituitary gland in the brain. For example, for the adrenal gland to produce corticosteroid hormones: The hypothalamus produces corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) that stimulates the pituitary gland to produce adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). The ACTH stimulates the adrenal glands to make and release corticosteroid hormones into the blood. Both the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland can sense whether the blood has the right amount of an adrenal hormone (cortisol) in it.
1 The adrenal cortex—the outer part of the gland—produces hormones that are vital to life, such as cortisol (which helps regulate metabolism and helps your body respond to stress) and aldosterone (which helps control blood pressure). They are located on top of each kidney. Their name directly relates to their location (ad —near or at; renes —kidneys). Each adrenal gland is comprised of two distinct structures—the outer part of the adrenal glands is called the adrenal cortex. The inner region is known as the adrenal medulla.
Adrenal glands, which are also called suprarenal glands, are small, triangular glands located on top of both kidneys. An adrenal gland is made of two parts--the outer region is called the adrenal cortex and the inner region is called the adrenal medulla. The ACTH stimulates the adrenal glands to make and release corticosteroid hormones into the blood. Both the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland can sense whether the blood has the right amount of an adrenal hormone (cortisol) in it.
Function. The adrenal glands are comprised of two parts--the cortex and medulla--that produce hormones (chemicals messengers that regulate body functions). The medulla, or inner part of the adrenal glands, produces the hormones norepinephrine and epinephrine, which regulate the fight or flight response in the body, the body's reaction to stressful events.