Aniline is often see as the “best” type of leather you can buy. Often this is due to the fact that Aniline leather is the most expensive type of leather due to the quality of the hides required to make Aniline. Aniline used to refer to any dye that was a derived from Coal Tar.
Aniline Leather. The whole hide or top grain is used. The hides are soaked in a natural aniline dye (no permanent colour) The hides are then soaked in wax and oils to bring out the natural patina of the hide. Aniline leather can be split into sub sections. Full Aniline-Semi Aniline-Pull Up Aniline.
Aniline leather is the nudest of the different types of leather and as a result does require more care. What this does mean, however, is that over time the leather will develop a lovely patina that pigments and a most semi-aniline hides won’t develop.
Semi aniline leather is really more of a dying process. Usually a semi aniline leather has has a corrected grain, hence the use of semi aniline. What happens on a semi aniline … leather is that small defects on the leather hide have been buffed or sanded and then get an embossed grain or corrected grain. In order to have color consistency, a semi aniline dye is utilized.
Aniline leather may be referred to as full aniline or full sauvage leather to differentiate between this dye treatment and variants. Semi-aniline leather is produced through a very similar process to full-aniline, but has a thin protective top coat added to protect it from wear and staining.
There are different kinds of aniline leather, but the same kinds of dyes are used in the process. The dyes used are clear and transparent chemicals that allow the grain structure of the leather to be seen. These dyes show the natural texture, but do not protect the leather from damage.
It is the transparency of the dye that draws people to Aniline leather. Aniline is the purest form of chromium tanned leather. The dye allows the natural grain and characteristics of the hide to shine through.
Aniline leather is a type of leather dyed exclusively with soluble dyes without covering the surface with a topcoat paint or insoluble pigments.
1 Aniline is not a type of leather as such but is often used to describe very sensitive leathers that have no surface finish on them. 2  Aniline dyed leathers will be the same colour throughout unless a pigment or other finish has been used to colour the top surface.