1 If you receive rent for January 2015 in December 2014, for example, report the rent as income on your 2014 tax return. 2  If you receive a deposit for first and last month's rent, it's taxed as rental income in the year it's received. In straight-line depreciation, the cost basis is spread evenly over the tax life of the property. For example: A residential rental building with a cost basis of $150,000 would generate depreciation of $5,455 per year ($150,000 / 27.5 years).
Cash or the fair market value of property or services you receive for the use of real estate or personal property is taxable to you as rental income. In general, you can deduct expenses of renting property from your rental income. You can generally use Form 1040, Schedule E (PDF), Supplemental Income and Loss, to report income and expenses related to real estate rentals. 1 Amounts paid to cancel a lease – If a tenant pays you to cancel a lease, this money is also rental income and is reported in the year you receive it. 2  Advance rent – Generally you include any advance rent paid in income in the year you receive it regardless of the period covered or the method of accounting you use.
How to claim rental property damage on Taxes? For Tax year 2009: A rental property sustained severe damage and the insurance company pays only a part of the actual rebuilding costs. show more
Damage Costs Are Less than the Deductible. If the cost of your damages falls below your deductible amount, your claim will be denied. For instance, if you have $500 in damage or loss, but your deductible is $1,000, then the claim makes no sense.
You generally depreciate the cost of business property that has a useful life of more than a year, but gradually wears out, or loses its value due to wear and tear, weather damage, etc. To figure out the depreciation on your rental property: 1  Determine your cost or other tax basis for the property. 2  Allocate that cost to the different types of property included in your rental (such as land, buildings, so on). In straight-line depreciation, the cost basis is spread evenly over the tax life of the property. For example: A residential rental building with a cost basis of $150,000 would generate depreciation of $5,455 per year ($150,000 / 27.5 years).
You can claim a deduction for the costs that you pay to repair and maintain your rental property. For example, replacing part of the guttering or windows damaged in a storm; replacing part of a fence damaged by a falling tree branch; or repairing an electrical appliance. 
If you've got 25 percent of your apartment set up as an office, you can apportion 25 percent of the rent as a business expense. The same goes for renter's insurance; you must allocate the correct percentage to the home office, while the balance of your insurance premium would be non-deductible. Independent contractors use Form 8829 to claim any home-office deductions. The same form applies to homeowners and renters. In the first part of this form, you figure the percentage of your home or apartment used for the office. Then you itemize the expenses, including insurance, on Line 17.
If you pay property taxes as part of your lease agreement, these taxes are deductible on your federal tax. You can also deduct the cost of damage of your property because of fire, theft or other accidents. Some states also offer renters credits or deductions. Most renters are disappointed that they can't deduct their rent payments from federal income tax. However, if your lease requires you to make property tax payments, you can deduct that portion of your rent or any property tax you pay directly.
If you eventually keep part or all of the security deposit because the tenant does not live up to the terms of the lease, you must include that amount as income on your tax return for the year in which the lease terminates. In straight-line depreciation, the cost basis is spread evenly over the tax life of the property. For example: A residential rental building with a cost basis of $150,000 would generate depreciation of $5,455 per year ($150,000 / 27.5 years).
The cost of renters insurance is generally quite affordable. You can typically expect to pay between $100 and $250 per year on average, depending on where you live and the coverage amount you carry on the insurance policy. The national average for renters insurance is $15 to $30 per month. 