The Asian or Asiatic elephant (Elephas maximus) is the only living species of the genus Elephas and is distributed in Southeast Asia from India in the west to Borneo in the east. Asian elephants are the largest living land animals in Asia. Since 1986, E. maximus has been listed as endangered by IUCN as the population has declined by at least 50% over the last three generations, estimated to be 60–75 years.
Size. African elephants are the larger of the two species. They grow 8.2 to 13 feet (2.5 to 4 meters) from shoulder to toe and weigh 5,000 to 14,000 lbs. (2,268 to 6,350 kilograms), according to the National Geographic. Elephants are the largest land animals on Earth. They have characteristic long noses, or trunks; large, floppy ears; and wide, thick legs. There are two species of elephant. The Asian elephant and the African elephant live on separate continents and have many unique features. There are several subspecies that belong to one or the other of these two main species, though there is disagreement over just how many subspecies there are
Three subspecies are recognised— Elephas maximus maximus from Sri Lanka, the Indian elephant or E. m. indicus from mainland Asia, and E. m. sumatranus from the island of Sumatra. Asian elephants are the largest living land animals in Asia. Since 1986, E. maximus has been listed as endangered by IUCN as the population has declined by at least 50% over the last three generations, estimated to be 60–75 years.
Elephas maximus. Asian elephants, smaller than their African cousins, are highly endangered. The subspecies shown here is found only on Borneo and faces threats from the conversion of their forest habitat to agricultural use. 
Asian Elephants live in many places like-India, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, China, Borneo, Indonesia, and Malaysia. Asian elephants live in Asia, and are smaller than Af … rican elephants. African elephants live in Africa. However, they are usually the same color and they both have tusks made of ivory and a trunk for a nose. Now you know how to tell apart African and Asian elephants!
African elephants are the largest mammals on land. - Asian elephants have smaller ears, usually only the males have visible tusks, their skin is not as wrinkly as African elephants’, they only have one finger at the ends of their trunk, and their back is dome-shaped.
African elephants live in sub-Saharan Africa, the rain forests of Central and West Africa and the Sahel desert in Mali. Asian elephants live in Nepal, India and Southeast Asia in scrub forests and rain forests. Elephants are the largest land animals on Earth. They have characteristic long noses, or trunks; large, floppy ears; and wide, thick legs. There are two species of elephant. The Asian elephant and the African elephant live on separate continents and have many unique features. There are several subspecies that belong to one or the other of these two main species, though there is disagreement over just how many subspecies there are
Herd. Protection status: Threatened. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: African elephants are the largest land animals on Earth. They are slightly larger than their Asian cousins and can be identified by their larger ears that look somewhat like the continent of Africa. (Asian elephants have smaller, rounded ears.). 
Asian elephants have smaller ears. African elephants have huge ears. Asian elephants live in Asia, and are smaller than Af … rican elephants. African elephants live in Africa. However, they are usually the same color and they both have tusks made of ivory and a trunk for a nose. Now you know how to tell apart African and Asian elephants! There are only between 41,410 and 52,345 in the wild