The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
1 1986 - As equal partners, VDI and VDE jointly launch VDI/VDE-Technologiezentrum Informationstechnik GmbH in Berlin. 2  Financed by the Federal Ministry for Research and Technology, the center has supported small and medium-sized enterprises since 1978 in implementing their new technological developments. 1 The DGBMT becomes a new technical society in the VDE. 2  The DKE is renamed DKE German Commission for Electrical, Electronic and Information Technologies of DIN and VDE. 3  The VDE opens a representative office in the capital of Berlin.
1 2001 - Merger of the VDE and the Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Für Biomedizinische (Technik German association Of Biomedical) (ENGINEERING). 2  Dgbmt THE dgbmt becomes a new technical society in THE. 3  Vde THE dke is RENAMED Dke German commission For, Electrical electronic And Information technologies OF din AND.  vde 1 The DGBMT becomes a new technical society in the VDE. 2  The DKE is renamed DKE German Commission for Electrical, Electronic and Information Technologies of DIN and VDE. 3  The VDE opens a representative office in the capital of Berlin.
1 1970 - In order to consolidate their work on electrotechnical standards, the DIN and the VDE found the German Commission for Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies (DKE). 2  With this move, there is now only one organization responsible for electrotechnical standards in the German Federal Republic. 1 The DGBMT becomes a new technical society in the VDE. 2  The DKE is renamed DKE German Commission for Electrical, Electronic and Information Technologies of DIN and VDE. 3  The VDE opens a representative office in the capital of Berlin.
VDE-Computer Definition. (1) (V ideo D isplay E ditor) A WordStar and WordPerfect-compatible shareware word processor written by Eric Meyer. (2) (V erband D eutscher E lektrotechniker) The German counterpart of the U.S. Underwriters Lab. Computer Desktop Encyclopedia THIS DEFINITION IS FOR PERSONAL USE ONLY All other reproduction is strictly prohibited without permission from the publisher.
1 1961 - Creation of the VDE radio interference protection symbol. 2  1970 - In order to consolidate their work on electrotechnical standards, the DIN and the VDE found the German Commission for Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies (DKE). 1 The DGBMT becomes a new technical society in the VDE. 2  The DKE is renamed DKE German Commission for Electrical, Electronic and Information Technologies of DIN and VDE. 3  The VDE opens a representative office in the capital of Berlin.
vide. 1. (used to direct a reader to a specified place in a text, another book, etc) refer to, see (often in the phrases vide ante (see before), vide infra (see below), vide post (see after), vide supra (see above), vide ut supra (see as above), etc). Abbreviation: v or Abbreviation vid. [C16: from Latin]. vide. A Latin word meaning see, used to refer a reader to another place in a text or to another text.