Katakana. Katakana (片仮名, カタカナ) is a Japanese syllabary, one component of the Japanese writing system along with hiragana, kanji, and in some cases the Latin script (known as romaji). The word katakana means fragmentary kana, as the katakana characters are derived from components of more complex kanji. Katakana and hiragana are both kana systems. With one or two minor exceptions, each syllable (strictly mora) in the Japanese language is represented by one character, or kana, in each system. 
Use in Japanese [edit]. The sokuon is used for various purposes. The main use is to mark a geminate consonant, which is represented in rōmaji (romanized Japanese) by the doubling of the consonant (except when the following consonant is ch). Examples: 1  Pocky, a Japanese snack food, is written in kana as ポッキー, which is. In addition to Japanese, sokuon is used in Okinawan katakana orthographies. Ainu katakana uses a small ッ both for a final t-sound and to represent a sokuon (there is no ambiguity however, as gemination is allophonic with syllable-final t).
Sokuon (促音) { } is a symbol, in the form of a smaller Hiragana つ or Katakana ツ, that indicates a slight pause between two syllables. For instance, さっき means that after pronouncing sa, there is a slight pause before pronouncing ki. Sokuon does not appear at the beginning of a word. Ｙou can type Sokuon by repeating the letter that follows っ. For instance, if you type ”kite, you get きて. But if you double the t and make it ki tt e, you will get き っ て. Of course, there are times when you only want to type the Sokuon. You can easily do so by typing xtu or
To see the difference in size using the Japanese fonts in a browser, compare the size of the full-sized hiragana tsu in たつと (ta-tsu-to) to the size of a small one in たっと (tatto), or the full-sized katakana tsu in タツト (ta-tsu-to) to a small one in タット (tatto). ), is written as 待って, which is 待 (kanji), っ (sokuon), て (te), with the sokuon representing the doubling of the t consonant. The small tsu is also used at the end of a sentence, to indicate a glottal stop (a sharp or cut-off articulation), which may indicate angry or surprised speech.
Sokuon. The Sokuon is a Japanese character representing a small tsu (っ or ッ in either Hiragana or Katakana respectively). This small tsu quite simply means that the consonant in the next character is ‘doubled’, and a slight pause results. For example, in the word ‘Yukkuri’ (ゆっくり), the word is pronounced ‘yu’ (a slight pause of one mora) ‘kuri’. The っ (tsu) represents this slight pause
The sokuon (促音) is a Japanese symbol in the form of a small hiragana or katakana tsu. In less formal language it is called chiisai tsu (小さいつ) or chiisana tsu (小さなつ) , meaning little tsu . Compare to a full-sized tsu : In addition to Japanese, sokuon is used in Okinawan katakana orthographies. Ainu katakana uses a small ッ both for a final t-sound and to represent a sokuon (there is no ambiguity however, as gemination is allophonic with syllable-final t).
The small tsu is used to represent a doubled or geminate consonant, known as a sokuon (促音) in Japanese. The sokuon is usually represented in rōmaji (romanized Japanese) by a doubled consonant, such as the double t in hatto (ハット), hat. ), is written as 待って, which is 待 (kanji), っ (sokuon), て (te), with the sokuon representing the doubling of the t consonant. The small tsu is also used at the end of a sentence, to indicate a glottal stop (a sharp or cut-off articulation), which may indicate angry or surprised speech.