Most calves are weaned between 120 and 290 days (3 to 10 months) after birth, but most producers like to wean their calves when they're around 205 (6 months) of age. Weight is also a factor, with the minimum being generally around 132lb (60kg).
Calves can be ready for weaning by 3 to 4 weeks of age; however, in Penn State studies calves weaned at 3 weeks required extra attention. The increased time and labor required to get these calves eating starter suggest that waiting until 4 weeks of age would be prudent.
Calves weaned at 3 weeks were fed exactly the same in these two trials. In addition, calves were fed a high quality, free-choice calf starter (22% protein on a dry matter basis) with special attention to assisting calves to eat if they had not begun consuming starter by 5 days of age.
Bottle-fed calves can be weaned after one month of age, while calves nursing cows are weaned between 3 and 8 months of age. It is usually best to wean at the older age. For comparing weight of calves weaned at different ages, a 205-day weaning weight is sometimes calculated.
1 Calves are ideally weaned when they are 7 to 8 months old. 2  The right time to wean a calf depends on the condition of the cow and not the age of the calf. 3  Calves should be weaned before the condition score of the cow falls below 2,5 if adequate winter feed is available and the cows maintain their condition.
Traditionally, calves are weaned at six to seven months of age. In typical spring calving herds in the northern Great Plains, this is usually October or November. However, during drought, forage is generally limiting and early weaning should be considered as a management tool.
Weaning age can have a large impact on calf raising costs. Dairy calves are ready to be weaned when they eat 1.5 to 2 lbs of calf starter for 3 consecutive days.
Calves are generally weaned between 8-10 months of age. The actual age depends on several factors: 1  Feed availability-cows can continue lactation without losing condition in good years, but early weaning should be considered in drier years. 2  Condition and age of Cow-cow condition is a key factor to joining success.
Latest estimates of average weaning age in the United States indicate that 70% of calves are weaned at 7 weeks of age or later. In addition, 25% of farms surveyed said they weaned calves at 9 weeks or later.
1 In the eastern parts of the country calves born during spring can be weaned early in May at the age of about 7 to 8 months. 2  In the more western parts of the country calves can be weaned late in May or early June at the age of about 7 to 8 months as the breeding season tends to be later in these areas.