Pearl millet grown for grain has a growth habit similar to sorghum. Pearl millet is a warm season crop, planted in early summer when soils have warmed up. In Indiana, it reaches the stage of 50% flowering in about 60 to 70 days from planting.
For 30 years, the Sorghum, Millet and Other Grains/International Sorghum and Millet Collaborative Research Support Program, or SMOG/INTSORMIL CRSP, worked in some of the most impoverished areas in the world and contributed to alleviating poverty through technological innovation and human capacity development.
Innovating science to build the crops of the future... The Feed the Future Innovation Lab for Collaborative Research in Sorghum and Millet is a consortium of cutting-edge research aimed at improving the adaptation and resilience of sorghum and pearl millet to the semi-arid climates of East and West Africa.
Place 136g sorghum/pearl millet flour, 544g wheat flour (i.e., 20:80 flour composite), 13g salt and 12g margarine, together with the yeast mixture and 340ml water into the bowl of a dough mixer. Mix the dough well then remove it from the bowl and knead it on a lightly floured board for about 1 min.
Millet is a warm season annual, similar to sorghum sudangrass, with no prussic acid. Dry matter production is approximately 20% less than sorghum sudangrass, with better digestibility and protein. Millet needs a soil temp of 65 degrees F or more before planting.
Sorghum(Sorghum bicolor) and pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) are usually grown forgrain in areas where environmental conditions, especially rainfall, temperatureand soil fertility are too harsh to grow maize (Zea mays) (Hanna and Cardona2001).
Add 99g sorghum/pearl millet flour, 99g wheat flour (i.e., a 50:50 flour composite), a teaspoon of baking powder, a teaspoon salt, and a teaspoon vanilla essence to the creamed mixture, and mix thoroughly. Place this dough in the refrigerator overnight.
Sorghum. Sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, is known under a variety of names: great millet and guinea corn in West Africa, kafir corn in South Africa, dura in Sudan, mtama in eastern Africa, jowar in India and kaoliang in China (Purseglove, 1972).