1 How long does raw chicken last after the sell-by date? 2  After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored. 1
If meat is stored in a refrigerator freezer, it should be used within two or three months. Whole chicken stored in a freezer unit can be stored safely for up to a year, and chicken pieces can be stored up to nine months. Do not leave the chicken at room temperature for more than two hours. If cooked chicken is not going to be used within four days of cooking, it should be frozen. Refrigerating. Raw or cooked chicken can be stored safely in a refrigerator at 40°F or lower for several days.
The meat should be stored in the coldest section of the refrigerator. Chicken can be stored safely for 2 or 3 days in the refrigerator at 40°F or less. Chicken giblets and ground poultry should only be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. If you are storing for a longer period of time, the chicken products should be frozen. Do not leave the chicken at room temperature for more than two hours. If cooked chicken is not going to be used within four days of cooking, it should be frozen. Refrigerating. Raw or cooked chicken can be stored safely in a refrigerator at 40°F or lower for several days.
Report Abuse. Refrigerator (4°C or 40°F) Whole chicken (2-3 days) Chicken pieces (2-3 days) Cooked chicken (3-4 days) Ground chicken (1-2 days) You could also freeze it for up to 3 months. Source(s): www.chicken.ca see the page on Storage and Thawing Guidelines: http://www.chicken.ca/DefaultSite/index_... Marty B · 7 years ago.
Cooked chicken, if it has been handled, packaged and stored properly should stay reasonably good up to 4 days in the refrigerator. You can keep it longer if you freeze it. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
1 Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 2  To further extend the shelf life of raw chicken, freeze; when freezing, place chicken in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge
Confidence votes 22.7K. Cooked chicken, if it has been handled, packaged and stored properly should stay reasonably good up to 4 days in the refrigerator. You can keep it longer if you freeze it. People constantly ask for some type of verification that the food they eat will not make them ill. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.