Gag reflex and brushing teeth. Usually, the gag reflex is stronger when brushing back teeth (especially the inside and biting surfaces). Gagging may be less pronounced when you keep your lips closed. Some people find it easiest to start off with brushing the outer surfaces of the lower teeth.
Some people have such a bad gag reflex that it makes brushing their teeth almost impossible. You can find some tips here: Problems with Brushing Teeth. A bad gag reflex is so common that all dentists will have encountered this and should have developed ways of helping you cope.
But some people have such a sensitive gag reflex that they feel like they're going to throw up every time they brush their teeth. To prevent your gag reflex from triggering, try to relax while you brush your teeth. Think about something else -- something pleasant and calming -- to help keep your mind off the brushing and stop you from gagging.
“I just can’t motivate myself to brush my teeth!”. “I can’t stand the taste of toothpaste!”. “Brushing my teeth makes me gag so badly that I just can’t bring myself to do it.”. These are the most common reasons why people find it difficult or impossible to brush their teeth.
Some people have more of a gag reflex than others. If when you brush, you occupy your mind with something else while still using the proper brushing technique, you won't focus on gagging. For example, try sitting in a chair when brushing, straighten one leg, then lift and hold it in the air.
It innervates the back of your tongue to the back of your throat, and helps to control reverse peristalsis. Some people have a glossopharyngeal that innervates a larger part of their tongue than other people, and have a very strong gag when they touch that area.
1 Usually, the gag reflex is stronger when brushing back teeth (especially the inside and biting surfaces). 2  Gagging may be less pronounced when you keep your lips closed. 3  Some people find it easiest to start off with brushing the outer surfaces of the lower teeth.