Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level
LDL measurements tend to measure the “bad” cholesterol that is most likely to lead to disease. So in this case you are looking for a low number. A good cholesterol score of LDL is between 100-129 mg/dL. A score under 100 mg/dL is considered optimal. An LDL cholesterol score of 130-159 mg/dL is borderline high, 160-189 mg/dL is high and 190 mg/dL is very high. With the LDL measurement and the total cholesterol measurement, you want to see these numbers lower, instead of high. Ad. In contrast, HDL cholesterol score is better when the number is higher
When it comes to HDL cholesterol -- good cholesterol – a higher number means lower risk. This is because HDL cholesterol protects against heart disease by taking the bad cholesterol out of your blood and keeping it from building up in your arteries. A statin can slightly increase your HDL, as can exercise. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check.
A desirable total cholesterol level for adults without heart disease is less than 200 mg/dL. An HDL cholesterol level of 60 mg/dL and above is considered protective against heart disease, while a level less than 50 mg/dL for women or 40 mg/dL for men is considered a major risk factor for heart disease. A deciliter is one-tenth of a liter). NCEP defines a desirable total cholesterol level as less than 200 mg/dL, and levels for most women stay in the healthy or desirable range until middle-age. But between the ages of 45 and 55, women's average total cholesterol rises to almost 220 mg/dL. Between the ages of 55 and 64, those levels average 240 mg/dL
The average, or normal, good cholesterol in men is 42 to 44 mg/dL at all ages; while the average good cholesterol in women is 53 mg/dL before age 30, 57 mg/dL at ages 30 to 39, 58 mg/dL at ages 40 to 49, 60 mg/dL at ages 50 to 59 and 62 mg/dL above 60. 
Levels of 240 mg/dL and above put you in the high-risk category for developing heart disease. LDL cholesterol levels less than 100 mg/dL are considered optimal, according to NCEP guidelines. As with total cholesterol, the higher the LDL number, the higher your risk for developing heart disease. A deciliter is one-tenth of a liter). NCEP defines a desirable total cholesterol level as less than 200 mg/dL, and levels for most women stay in the healthy or desirable range until middle-age. But between the ages of 45 and 55, women's average total cholesterol rises to almost 220 mg/dL. Between the ages of 55 and 64, those levels average 240 mg/dL
Total blood (or serum) cholesterol. Your total cholesterol score is calculated using the following equation: HDL + LDL + 20 percent of your triglyceride level. HDL (good) cholesterol. With HDL cholesterol, higher levels are better. Low HDL cholesterol puts you at higher risk for heart disease
HDL (good) cholesterol protects against heart disease, so for HDL, higher numbers are better. A level less than 40 mg/dL is low and is considered a major risk factor because it increases your risk for developing heart disease. HDL levels of 60 mg/dL or more help to lower your risk for heart disease. Triglycerides can also raise heart disease risk. Levels that are borderline high (150-199 mg/dL) or high (200 mg/dL or more) may need treatment in some people. 