Eating marijuana affects you differently than smoking it, so walk before you run is the moral of this story. When you eat marijuana, it goes into your blood stream, compared to when you smoke marijuana and it goes into your nervous system. When you eat it, the high lasts longer, and takes longer to take effect. When you smoke marijuana, the high is almost instant, but doesn’t last as long as when you eat marijuana.
1. 20. Yes. You get high when you eat marijuana. But it usually takes longer and is not as intense as inhaling marijuana smoke. But the high lasts longer, and is highly detectable in urine after eating it.Marijuana is usually smoked in a pipe or cigarette but can also be mixed in baked goods and ingested orally as a pill or capsule (dronabinol or oral THC).
There is no metabolite in weed. Metabolites are what you get when your metabolism breaks down a substance. Weed contains THC and other cannabinoids. They don't need to be liberated. You don't need heat. If you could get it down, you could eat raw weed and get as high as a kite.
I've heard that the best way to get high from ingesting THC oraly is by cooking out the THC in oil and butter. That doesn't mean that you wont get high if u eat raw weed because you will. It will take longer for you to feel and, depending on how much you eat, how high you get.
To reiterate, the plant does not need to contain high levels of THC and it can simply be hemp. Eating Cannabis that does contain THC will not get you high. Also, smoking it does not give the same results as eating or juicing the plant.
So you can add cannabis to any food that contains animal or vegetable fats, such as cakes, biscuits, stews or drinks such as milkshakes, drinking chocolate or yoghourts.
You can't get high just by swallowing a bud of weed, no. You would have to chew the bud, extracting the THC through saliva, and pressure. Since THC (the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana) is fat-soluble, the marijuana should first be cooked in a fatty substance such as butter or oil.