Flexibility is defined by Gummerson as the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints that is attainable in a momentary effort with the help of a partner or a piece of equipment.. This definition tells us that flexibility is not something general but is specific to a particular joint or set of joints. This is because the nervous control of length and tension in the muscles are set at what is repeated most strongly and/or most frequently. Overflexibility Strength and Flexibility: (previous section) Flexibility: (beginning of chapter) It is possible for the muscles of a joint to become too flexible.
1 advantages: The sit and reach test is a common test of flexibility, and is an easy and quick test to perform. 2  If using the standard testing procedure, there is a lot of published data to use for comparison. 3  disadvantages: Variations in arm, leg and trunk length can make comparisons between individuals misleading. 1 If a warm up is used, it is important to have a standardized warm up and test order and repeat the same conditions for each time the test is conducted. 2  advantages: The sit and reach test is a common test of flexibility, and is an easy and quick test to perform.
The sit and reach test is a common measure of flexibility, and specifically measures the flexibility of the lower back and hamstring muscles. This test is important as because tightness in this area is implicated in lumbar lordosis, forward pelvic tilt and lower back pain. 1 If a warm up is used, it is important to have a standardized warm up and test order and repeat the same conditions for each time the test is conducted. 2  advantages: The sit and reach test is a common test of flexibility, and is an easy and quick test to perform.
Flexibility or limberness refers to the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints, and length in muscles that cross the joints to induce a bending movement or motion. Flexibility varies between individuals, particularly in terms of differences in muscle length of multi-joint muscles. Flexibility in some joints can be increased to a certain degree by exercise, with stretching a common exercise component to maintain or improve flexibility. Quality of life is enhanced by improving and maintaining a good range of motion in the joints. Overall flexibility should be developed with specific joint range of motion needs in mind as the individual joints vary from one to another. Loss of flexibility can be a predisposing factor for physical issues such as pain syndromes or balance disorders. Gender, age, and genetics are important for range of motion.
The sit and reach test is the most common flexibility test. It measures the flexibility of the lower back and hamstrings. It requires a box about 30cm (12 inches) high and a meter rule: 1. Sit on the floor with your back and head against a wall. Legs should be out straight ahead and knees flat against the floor. 2. Have someone place the box flat against your feet (no shoes). Keeping your back and head against the wall stretch your arms out towards the box.
This is an excerpt from Foundations of Professional Personal Training With DVD by canfitpro. Flexibility is needed to perform everyday activities with relative ease. To get out of bed, lift children, or sweep the floor, we need flexibility. Flexibility tends to deteriorate with age, often due to a sedentary lifestyle. Without adequate flexibility, daily activities become more difficult to perform. To increase or restore muscle ROM, it is necessary to overload the muscle with flexibility training. To improve joint ROM, it is necessary to lengthen the muscle and surrounding connective tissue in safe and effective ways.
Procedure. If you have completed the home tests in order, you will be well warmed up by the time you are up to the sit and reach test. Otherwise, go for a jog and do some stretching (see warm up for testing). Place the ruler on the ground between your legs or on the top of the step. Place one hand on top of the other, then reach slowly forward. At the point of your greatest reach, hold for a couple of seconds, and measure how far you have reached. If you have trouble straightening you legs, get a friend to help by holding the knees down flush with the ground
Use these flexibility tests before you begin a stretching program and then every 6-8 weeks during your flexibility training. Before you perform these tests make sure you warm up thoroughly with 10 minutes of light jogging or skipping. Click here for details on how to put together a battery of physical fitness tests. 1. Sit on the floor with your back and head against a wall. Legs should be out straight ahead and knees flat against the floor. 2. Have someone place the box flat against your feet (no shoes).