Folic acid fortification is an important way to help prevent NTDs. Unfortunately, even with folic acid fortification, not all women of reproductive age are getting the recommended amount of folic acid. This puts them at risk for a pregnancy affected by an NTD.
Although it is not known exactly how folic acid works to prevent NTDs, its role in tissue formation is essential. Folic acid is required for the formation of DNA, which is necessary for rapid cell growth needed to make fetal organs early in pregnancy. Folate and folic acid are different terms for the same B-vitamin.
1 Taking a vitamin supplement containing folic acid is an easy way to get enough folic acid. 2  Almost all over-the-counter multivitamins contain 400 micrograms of folic acid, the amount recommended to prevent NTDs (Neural Tube Defects) in childbearing age women.
CDC urges all women who are capable of becoming pregnant to get at least 400 mcg of folic acid every day. It is especially important for women to get this amount of folic acid at least one month before becoming pregnant to help prevent NTDs.
1 Prevention efforts: Current fortification efforts should be maintained to prevent NTDs from occurring. 2  There are still opportunities for prevention among women with lower folic acid intakes, especially among Hispanic women, to further reduce the prevalence of NTDs in the United States.
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) are largely preventable, even without vaccines. Clean water, sanitary food handling, and good hygiene can prevent diseases such as guinea-worm disease, schistosomiasis, soil-transmitted helminthiasis, and trachoma. Vector-borne NTDs—those that are spread by worms, flies, mosquitoes, or other hosts—can be prevented through control of the vectors themselves.
The neural tube closes before a woman usually knows she is pregnant. To prevent NTDs for all pregnancies, planned and unplanned, the World Health Organization recommends that women capable of becoming pregnant consume 400 µg of folic acid each day [4].
NTDs occur when the neural tube fails to close properly, which can result in neural tissue being exposed and susceptible to damage. Types of NTDs include spina bifida and encephalocele which can lead to permanent disability and anencephaly which always causes death [1].