The midbrain is formed by three main structures: the cerebral peduncle (peduncle meaning 'foot' or 'base' of the cerebrum), the corpora quadrigemina (meaning 'quadruplet bodies' since it has four mound or hill-like structures), and the cerebral aqueduct, which is a canal dividing the two structures. 
Also known as the prosencephalon, the forebrain is mostly comprised of the cerebrum, which is divided into two hemispheres. The two main sections of the forebrain, however, are the telencephalon and the diencephalon. The telecephalon includes the cerebral cortex, the subcortical structures, and the corpus callosum, while the diencephalon includes the thalamus and the hypothalamus. The cerebrum includes the cerebral cortex, which is made up of four lobes: frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital. Imagining, planning and reasoning are some of the functions of the frontal lobe. Hearing and smelling, as well as forming memories and retrieving them later, are functions of the temporal lobes.
The subcortical structures of the forebrain are located deeper in the brain and include the basal ganglia, hippocampus and amygdala. The basal ganglia, groups of nerve cells, are responsible for the coordination of movement. Both the hippocampus and amygdala are parts of the limbic system. The cerebrum includes the cerebral cortex, which is made up of four lobes: frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital. Imagining, planning and reasoning are some of the functions of the frontal lobe. Hearing and smelling, as well as forming memories and retrieving them later, are functions of the temporal lobes.
In prenatal development, the forebrain (prosencephalon) is the most anterior vesicle of the neural tube that later forms both the diencephalon and the telencephalon (which develops into the cerebrum). The diencephalon or interbrain is one of the major regions of the brain in vertebrates. It consists of several structures between the brainstem and the cerebrum, including the thalamus, hypothalamus, epithalamus, pituitary gland, and pineal gland. Embryologically, the diencephalon begins as the region of the embryonic vertebrate neural tube that gives rise to posterior forebrain structures
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla.
limbic system. group of forebrain structures that form a border around the brainstem (beneath the cerebral cortex); involved in emotion, motivation, learning, and memory; 4 key structures: hippocampus, thalamus, hypothalamus, amygdala. forebrain. largest and most complex region of the brain (~90% of the brain) composed of the cerebral cortex and limbic system; also called cerebrum.
The brain is made of three main parts: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem
Introduction. The forebrain (proencephalon) is the largest part of the brain, most of which is cerebrum. Other important structures found in the forebrain include the thalamus, the hypothalamus and the limbic system. Limbic System. The Limbic system is made up of parts of the brain bordering the corpus collosum. The Limbic system contains areas of cerebral cortex, the cingulate gyrus (dorsally), the parahippocampus gyrus (ventrally), the amygdala, parts of the hypothalamus (mamillary body) and the hippocampus.
Human Brain. Paul Carus. The anatomy of the brain is complex due its intricate structure and function. This amazing organ acts as a control center by receiving, interpreting, and directing sensory information throughout the body. The brain and spinal cord are the two main structures of the central nervous system.