The screw and magnet spin, with the screw tip acting as a bearing. A homopolar motor is a direct current electric motor with two magnetic poles, the conductors of which always cut unidirectional lines of magnetic flux by rotating a conductor around a fixed axis that is parallel to the magnetic field. The name homopolar indicates that the electrical polarity of the conductor and the magnetic field poles do not change (i.e., that it does not require commutation).
In our previous blog article we took a look at how a DC and an AC motor works and described how you can build your own basic DC motor. Even simpler than a basic DC motor, is a homopolar motor. First created in 1821, it really is the simplest example of a motor possible, and really easy to experiment with. A homopolar motor creates rotational movement because of what is known as the Lorentz force. What’s happening is that electrical current is flowing from the positive terminal of the battery to the negative and into the magnet.
Intro: So I know what your thinking, what on earth is a homopolar motor! Before I can show you how to make one of these simple and fun to watch motors' you might want to know what it is and how it works first, right? Before you can start making a homopolar motor you need a double A battery, Copper wire (The thicker the wire, the slower the motor will go), Neodymium magnet (also known as rare earth magnets), Needle nose pliers, and a Wire cutter.
Homopolar Motor. Home » Electrical » Homopolar Motor. The homopolar motor is one of the simplest electric motors and is very easy to build – requiring just a few commonly available components including a magnet, battery and wire. It is also one of the first electric motors, a version of this type of motor being publicly demonstrated by Michael Faraday in 1821. 
We’ve already established that a homopolar motor is a type of electric motor, specifically it is one that uses direct current to power rotational movement, such as that generated by a battery. It was the first type ever built and demonstrated by Michael Faraday in 1821. A homopolar motor creates rotational movement because of what is known as the Lorentz force. What’s happening is that electrical current is flowing from the positive terminal of the battery to the negative and into the magnet.
But your design doesn't have to be simple; get creative and make your homopolar motor unique! What You Need Copper Wire A neodymium magnet A AA battery What to Do The current flows downward in both wires, and the magnetic field is pointing approximately outward when it reaches the wires on the side. This force causes the wire to spin in a circle as you can seen in the video at the top of the page. Apply It! Try bending the wire in different shapes to make the copper wire spin. Make sure one end is touching the positive terminal and the other is touching the neodymium magnet.
Homopolar Motors. The permanent magnet in the animation (at left) produces a magnetic field B that is vertically upwards through the conducting disk. The cell provides current that flows through one brush to the central shaft, then outwards to the right towards the brush on the rim. Whereas the homopolar motor converts electrical energy (supplied by the cell) into mechanical energy, the homopolar generator does the reverse: we provide mechanical energy to turn the disk and obtain an emf and (if a current path exists) an electric current.
DIY simple homopolar motor made with a drywall screw, a battery cell, a wire, and a disk magnet. The magnet is on top of the screw head. The screw and magnet make contact with the bottom of the battery cell and are held together by the magnet's attraction. The name homopolar indicates that the electrical polarity of the conductor and the magnetic field poles do not change (i.e., that it does not require commutation).
In a simple design for a very simple homopolar motor, the magnet itself (or its coating) touches the cell and is used as the contact for the brushes. In this design, the rotor is not a disk, but just a piece of wire with two current carrying paths (for balance). The piece of wire includes all three brushes. Whereas the homopolar motor converts electrical energy (supplied by the cell) into mechanical energy, the homopolar generator does the reverse: we provide mechanical energy to turn the disk and obtain an emf and (if a current path exists) an electric current.