An orthopedic consultant is a medical expert who treats patients with problems in their muscles, bones, joints and other related structures. He is an experienced physician and surgeon and is considered a specialist in the field of orthopedics.
In the UK, fully qualified medical practitioners are placed into two categories, doctors and consultants, and it is important to understand the difference between the two terms. The term doctor usually applies to General Practitioners (GP), which is somebody trained in a broad range of medicine.
Consultant surgeons undergo long periods of training and surgical experience before qualifying as consultants. Following a five-year or six-year degree course in a university medical school, they begin as junior hospital trainees where the basic starting salary is £22,412, according to NHS pay scales for 2011-2012.
Most hospitals divide their wards into different speciality areas and a senior consultant will usually be in charge of this ward, overseeing the other consultants and doctors that work there. Another difference between consultants and doctors is how they are addressed.
Report Abuse. A consultant is a senior practitioner, who may be a surgeon or a physician. Surgeons start by taking FRCS(E) and from then are called Mr; they work up the ranks. The highest junior is called a registrar and then a surgeon becomes a consultant EDIT Yes, I said it first time round and meant it.
Surgeons specialise in caring for patients who may need an operation. This might happen when the patient has been injured, has a disease, or has a condition that is getting worse. A surgeon needs to put people at their ease and inspire trust and confidence.
Answers. Best Answer: A consultant is a senior doctor in any field. A surgeon is a doctor of any level of seniority whose field of expertise is in surgery, i.e. performing operations. You can be a Consultant Surgeon, but you can be a consultant without being a surgeon, and a surgeon without being a consultant.
A consultant is a senior practitioner, who may be a surgeon or a physician. Surgeons start by taking FRCS(E) and from then are called Mr; they work up the ranks.