The recommendations are to replace the batteries with the size and type that they original come with for the solar lights to work properly. Meaning that if its a AA you use a AA, if it is a 1.2V you use a 1.2V, if it is a Ni-Cd, use a Ni-Cd, if it is a NiMh use a NiMh.
Types of rechargeable batteries. Most solar garden lights need between 1 to 4 batteries to work. 2 types of batteries are usually used in garden solar lights: AA size – NiCad(Nickel Cadmium) 1.2 V / 500 to 900mA, and AA size – NiMH (Nickel Metal Hydride) 1.2 V /1000 to 2000mA.
Rechargeable Solar Light Batteries are the major cause of failure in solar garden lights (5 main reasons why your solar lights are not performing as well as new.). Rechargeable solar batteries will self-discharge which means that over time the batteries will discharge to a point where they no longer work.
3 of the most common chemistry types of batteries used in garden solar lights are NiMH (Nickel Metal Hydride), NiCd (Nickel Cadmium) and Lithium Ion. The most common sizes (and the ones we carry at Your Solar Link) are AA rechargeable batteries and AAA rechargeable batteries.
We offer a choice of AAA size rechargeable Ni-Mh batteries for those who need to replace the batteries in their solar light. Each battery is sold as a single unit. This is a rechargeable battery for solar lights that require a AAA 1000mA 1.2 Volt Ni-Mh battery. Please check the existing batte..
We offer a choice of AA size rechargeable Ni-Cad batteries for those who need to replace the batteries in their solar light. Each battery is sold as a single unit. Many solar lights operate use one or more AA size Ni-Cad (Nickel Cadmium) rechargeable batteries.
03/10/2011 By: Solar Lights Plus More.com-Owner. Outdoor solar lights and solar garden lights use rechargeable batteries to keep the lights lit at night. Each solar light has a solar panel that charges the rechargeable batteries by the sun during the day. Then at night when there is no sun the light turns on automatically and lights all night until dawn when the sun comes up again.
If your fairy lights have NiMH rechargeable batteries, they have the potential of sitting on the shelf (not in use) for anywhere between 3 to 5 years, depending on the brand of battery. But generally NiMH batteries do not need to be conditioned (with a 2-day cycle) as would a Lead-Acid rechargeable battery solar light.