Croydon is the civic centre of the borough. The borough is now one of London's leading business, financial and cultural centres, and its influence in entertainment and the arts contribute to its status as a major metropolitan centre. Croydon is a major office area in the south east of England, being the largest outside of central London. Many powerful companies based in Europe and worldwide have European or British headquarters in the town.
Croydon is a large town in South London, England, the principal settlement of the London Borough of Croydon. It is located 9.5 miles (15.3 km) south of Charing Cross. Croydon town centre is near the centre of the borough of Croydon, to the north of the North Downs and the Pilgrims' Way path. To the north of Croydon are typical London districts, whereas a short distance southeast (such as Coombe and Selsdon) is green, hilly and rural land.
Croydon expanded during the Middle Ages as a market town and a centre for charcoal production, leather tanning and brewing. The Surrey Iron Railway from Croydon to Wandsworth opened in 1803 and was the world's first public railway. Later nineteenth century railway building facilitated Croydon's growth as a commuter town for London (including the City of London). By the early 20th century, Croydon was an important industrial area, known for car manufacture, metal working and its airport. Croydon town centre is near the centre of the borough of Croydon, to the north of the North Downs and the Pilgrims' Way path. To the north of Croydon are typical London districts, whereas a short distance southeast (such as Coombe and Selsdon) is green, hilly and rural land.
The London Borough of Croydon (pronunciation (help·info)) is a London borough in south London, England and is part of Outer London. It covers an area of 87 km 2 (33.6 sq mi) and is the largest London borough by population. Croydon is a major office area in the south east of England, being the largest outside of central London. Many powerful companies based in Europe and worldwide have European or British headquarters in the town.
Croydon is mentioned in the Domesday Book, and from a small market town has expanded into one of the most populous areas on the fringe of London. Central Croydon is the civic centre of the borough and houses the largest office and retail centre in the south east of England outside Central London. The governance of the borough is by Croydon Council, which is responsible for the administration of Croydon. Croydon shares its London Assembly member with neighboring Sutton. It is a safe Conservative seat with the south of Croydon and parts of Sutton traditionally voting towards the Conservatives.
In Croydon’s town center, this award-winning Holiday Inn Express is within a 20-minute train ride of London Victoria, London Bridge and Gatwick Airport. Melinda, United Kingdom. A 5-minute walk from East Croydon train station and a 15-minute train ride from the heart of London, Premier Inn Croydon Town Centre features modern, air-conditioned rooms.
The London Borough of Croydon is a London borough in South London, England and is part of Outer London. It covers an area of 87km2 and is the largest London borough by population. It is the southernmost borough of London. The governance of the borough is by Croydon Council, which is responsible for the administration of Croydon. Croydon shares its London Assembly member with neighboring Sutton. It is a safe Conservative seat with the south of Croydon and parts of Sutton traditionally voting towards the Conservatives.
Croydon Tech City is home to over a thousand digital, tech and creative startups and is officially London's fastest growing tech startup cluster (38% growth between 2011-13: ONS Business Register). © Copyright Croydon Tech City 2015. 1  Designed & Built In Croydon by. 
Formed in 1965 from the Coulsdon and Purley Urban District and the County Borough of Croydon, the local authority Croydon London Borough Council, is now part of the local government association for Greater London, London Councils. Croydon is a major office area in the south east of England, being the largest outside of central London. Many powerful companies based in Europe and worldwide have European or British headquarters in the town.