Remove the mushroom from the water and then drain well. Place the mushrooms on cookie sheets and then place the cookie sheet into a freezer for about 30 - 40 minutes or until the mushrooms are frozen. Remove the mushrooms and transfer them to labeled bags. Simply place your dried mushrooms in a coffee grinder and grind them to a fine powder. Place the powder in a well sealed jar and store in a cool place. Powdered mushrooms can have a very intense flavor so you may want to use the powder a bit sparingly.
Since it's clear that there's nothing wrong with soaking mushrooms, that's the way I clean them. It's fast and thorough. If you've got a colander that fits into a bowl, you can place the mushrooms in the colander, put it into a bowl in the sink, and fill with water. Let them soak for a few minutes, swishing them around with your hands if necessary to get them clean. Then just lift the colander out and drain them. Remember, you want them crowded for this method. Add enough water to barely cover the mushrooms. For eight ounces of mushrooms, add about a tablespoon of butter or oil and a teaspoon of kosher salt.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A lot of people will not soak them for more than a few hours but we have always cleaned them and soaked them in light salt water until we are ready to cook them. Personally, I think fresh water is easier because a salt water tank means that you need to purchase aquarium salt, and you need to add it to every water change. I have n … ever raised a saltwater aquarium, but I believe you also have to measure the amount of salt the fish need.
1 Soak the Morels in the hot salt water for about 4 minutes. 2  Everyone will tell you that you need to soak them overnight, but don't believe them. 3  This step is intended to kill and remove the bugs from the mushrooms. 4  There are no forest bugs that can survive under hot salt water for 4 minutes. 1 As hot as your sink will make it. 2  Add roughly 1 cup of salt to the water and stir well until salt dissolves. 3  Soak the Morels in the hot salt water for about 4 minutes. 4
I've heard a few different theories on if you should or shouldn't soak your morels, and also about adding salt to the water. Any advice? Also, I read to keep the water and dump it back out in hopes of getting the spores back into the ground. 
I have found when freezing morels if when you slice them in half, just rinse them in cold water to make sure they are clean. Do Not soak them in salt water! They are much firmer with a simple rinse and don't get as soft and mushy. Much more like fresh mushrooms when you get them out and cook them later. Never wash or soak a morel. The need to do so is minimized if one harvests them correctly. Pinch off the mushroom just below the head.. Carry your morels in a spore bag (never, ever use a bucket or plastic bag that does not deposit spores on the forest floor).
Some people believe that you should never put your mushrooms under or into water to remove debris and bugs because it will reduce the mushroom’s flavor. Others believe that the bugs or even the soil found on or in the mushrooms can affect flavor, palatability, and a person’s health. You will have to make up your own mind regarding such things but it is a good rule of thumb to use as little water as possible when cleaning your mushrooms. Simply place your dried mushrooms in a coffee grinder and grind them to a fine powder. Place the powder in a well sealed jar and store in a cool place. Powdered mushrooms can have a very intense flavor so you may want to use the powder a bit sparingly.
If I’m not going to cook them right away, I usually just rinse and freeze. A few tiny bugs you can’t even see won’t hurt you, especially if you cook them. I figure it can’t be much different than the mushrooms or vegetables you get from the store. People don’t usually soak those. I’ve always soaked mine in cold salty water, placing a plate over the top to keep them submerged in the water. I keep them way in the back of the frig where it seems to be the coldest; allowing them to soak overnight. Rinse them in cold running water the next day.
Re: Washing/soaking mushrooms...what do you t. Regarding rehydrating I play it by the density of the flesh-generally dependent upon the type of mushroom of course. My favorite is rehydrating hens. I will either soak them overnight in cool water or hot water if I'm in more of a hurry. He soaks store bought white mushroom various times and drains for 10 min and then weighs them to see how much water they have soaked up. My belief is that some mushroom may not be affected much with washing or soaking, such a chants and the hardier ones like hens.
He goes on to say that this is not always the case. Different mushrooms have different textures and different people have different preferences for dealing with them. There are people out there who soak wild mushrooms in salt water to get the worms out that sometimes infest them. Mmm-mm. Owen's preference is to not wash mushrooms at all, or to brush them with a soft brush if you really must. 