Expressed in his own words, here is Lincoln’s most luminous leadership insight by far: In order to win a man to your cause, you must first reach his heart, the great high road to his reason.. Mark C. Crowley is the author of Lead From The Heart: Transformational Leadership For The 21st Century. He was bigger than his country—bigger than all the Presidents together… and as a great character, he will live as long as the world lives.—Leo Tolstoy, 1909. The greatness of Napoleon, Caesar or Washington is only moonlight to the sun of Lincoln.
Lincoln was a speaker of the people. In other words, he simplified his vision and presented it in a way that conveyed his understanding of the people and supported his larger purpose. Effective communication, like Lincoln’s, is marked by: 1  Language that invites participation. I recently saw the film Lincoln, which reminded me of the powerful, long-lasting legacy of leadership principles Abraham Lincoln left behind. If you haven’t had an opportunity to see the movie, I highly recommend it. Lincoln is a leader who embodies the attributes of leadership absent in many corporations today.
Definitely! Abraham Lincoln was a great leader. They are many incredible reasons as to why... First off, Abraham Lincoln started off as a a poor boy living in a log cabin (as you all probably know). He was passionate, independent, and honest, already showing good leadership skills at a young age. He wasn't able to go to school often and moved around a few times.
\\\\n. \\\\nExpressed in his own words, here is Lincoln’s most luminous leadership insight by far: \\\\In order to win a man to your cause, you must first reach his heart, the great high road to his reason.\\\\. Mark C. Crowley is the author of Lead From The Heart: Transformational Leadership For The 21st Century. He was bigger than his country—bigger than all the Presidents together… and as a great character, he will live as long as the world lives.—Leo Tolstoy, 1909. The greatness of Napoleon, Caesar or Washington is only moonlight to the sun of Lincoln.
Abraham Lincoln is more than America’s 16th president. He’s a model of leadership who demonstrates traits and characteristics that are essential for present day executives and business leaders. Like Lincoln, you face the challenge of executing a vision, while also managing competing priorities. I recently saw the film Lincoln, which reminded me of the powerful, long-lasting legacy of leadership principles Abraham Lincoln left behind. If you haven’t had an opportunity to see the movie, I highly recommend it. Lincoln is a leader who embodies the attributes of leadership absent in many corporations today.
by Gordon Leidner. Lincoln 's leadership ability has been one of the most discussed qualities of our 16th president. Although many books and articles have been written on the subject of Lincoln as a leader, only a few studies have employed modern leadership theory to analyze and qualify Lincoln's performance. Most of the soldiers recorded their opinions of the president in their letters, and large collections of these letters are still available. Also, to fully appreciate Lincoln's skills as a transformational leader, it is important to understand his use of a different kind of skill known as transactional leadership.
Abraham Lincoln was a man of humble beginnings who, though self-taught, rose to greatness through the many leadership qualities that he possessed. Quality traits that Lincoln possessed were honesty, integrity and a great devotion towards the rights of the people. Another part of Lincoln’s skills as a great communicator, was that he had a great capacity for learning to listen to different points of view. While president, he created a work environment where his cabinet members were able to disagree with his decisions without the threat of retaliation for doing so.
His commitment to the rights of individuals was a cornerstone of his leadership style (Phillips, 1992). There have been many great leaders throughout the history of this great nation, but Abraham Lincoln is consistently mentioned as one of our greatest leaders. Although Lincoln possessed many characteristics of a great leader, probably his greatest leadership trait was his ability to communicate. Though Lincoln only had one year of formal education, he was able to master language and use his words to influence the people as a great public speaker, debater and as a humorist. Another part of Lincoln’s skills as a great communicator, was that he had a great capacity for learning to listen to different points of view. While president, he created a work environment where his cabinet members were able to disagree with his decisions without the threat of retaliation for doing so.
Lincoln demonstrated an ability to withstand adversity and to move forward in the face of frustration, said Kearns Goodwin, a keynote speaker at SHRM’s 2008 Annual Conference in Chicago. She identified 10 qualities that made Lincoln a great leader. President Abraham Lincoln appointed the best and brightest to his Cabinet, individuals who were also some of his greatest political rivals. He demonstrated his leadership by pulling this group together into a unique team that represented the greatest minds of his time, according to historian Doris Kearns Goodwin.
So here’s the gist of what Limbaugh was saying. Historians routinely rank Abraham Lincoln as one of our greatest presidents, even though he took many more gross liberties with the Constitution than George W. Bush. Limbaugh’s conclusion: Bush is a great president too. My conclusion: maybe Abraham Lincoln wasn’t such a great president either.