About the 30-Meter Wind Resource Maps. This map shows the predicted mean annual wind speeds at a 30-m height, presented at a spatial resolution of 2 kilometers that is interpolated to a finer scale. Small wind turbines are typically installed between 15 and 40 m high. The average wind speeds indicated on this map are model-derived estimates that may not represent the true wind resource at any given location.
The average wind speed decreases a small amount, to 17 kilometres per hour. The average sea temperature in September is 29C, while the average ambient temperature is 27.5C, with highs of 30C and lows of 25C. September receives an average amount of 213mm of precipitation over the course of fifteen rainy days. The average wind speed drops to a very still 15 kilometres per hour. Neither the weather, nor the temperature, change all that much in Kuramathi, as evidenced by the fact that December’s averages are identical to the previous few months preceding it: a mean of 27.5C, a high of 30C, and a low of 25C.
Wind. The average daily wind speed in October has been around 20 km/h, that’s the equivalent to about 12 mph, or 11 knots. In recent years the maximum sustained wind speed has reached 78 km/h, that’s the equivalent of around 48 mph, or 42 knots. On average the month of October is not affected by foggy conditions. The temperature of water an individual will feel comfortable in is very much personal preference.
The average wind speed jumps back up to 20 kilometres per hour and the average sea temperature is once again 28C. The Dry Season. The New Year in Kuramathi begins with the windiest month; January has an average wind speed of 22 kilometres per hour, which is relatively still quite calm. The average wind speed drops to a very still 15 kilometres per hour. Neither the weather, nor the temperature, change all that much in Kuramathi, as evidenced by the fact that December’s averages are identical to the previous few months preceding it: a mean of 27.5C, a high of 30C, and a low of 25C.
Maldives: Annual Weather Averages. March is the hottest month in Maldives with an average temperature of 29°C (84°F) and the coldest is January at 27°C (81°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 10 in February. The wettest month is September with an average of 243mm of rain
April is the least windy month in Kuramathi, with an average wind speed of 13 kilometres per hour. April experiences 129mm of rain over nine or ten days. The mean temperature is 29C, with a low of 26C, and a high of 32C, making April the hottest month of the year. The average wind speed drops to a very still 15 kilometres per hour. Neither the weather, nor the temperature, change all that much in Kuramathi, as evidenced by the fact that December’s averages are identical to the previous few months preceding it: a mean of 27.5C, a high of 30C, and a low of 25C.
We also provide monthly climate averages for Maldives. These monthly climate averages provide average temperature, maximum and minimum temperature, amount of rainfall in months, wind speed and much more. So if you are planning to go on holiday to Maldives then do check our monthly climate average section.
Dataset Tabs Default Display. This tool produces maps showing patterns of average monthly wind speed and direction for the contiguous United States from 1950 to the present. Maps show the average (mean) wind speed as well as two components of wind direction: U-wind represents the east-west component of wind and V-wind represents the north-south component.
The 7 day weather forecast summary for Maldives: For Maldives in the coming week the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 32°C, with a high for the week of 35°C expected on the afternoon of Sunday 11th. The mean minimum temperature will be 28°C, dipping to its lowest on the morning of Friday 16th at 28°C. These monthly climate averages provide average temperature, maximum and minimum temperature, amount of rainfall in months, wind speed and much more. So if you are planning to go on holiday to Maldives then do check our monthly climate average section.
The average wind speed is 20 kilometres per hour. The mean temperature of June is 28.3C, with a high of 30.5C, and a low of 26C. The average amount of precipitation is 183mm of rain, distributed over twelve to fourteen days. The average wind speed is 29 kilometres per hour. The average wind speed drops to a very still 15 kilometres per hour. Neither the weather, nor the temperature, change all that much in Kuramathi, as evidenced by the fact that December’s averages are identical to the previous few months preceding it: a mean of 27.5C, a high of 30C, and a low of 25C.