State taxes on family trusts vary, but federal laws require family trusts to pay taxes on income it keeps but not on any that is distributed. A trust that earns $50,000 and distributes it all to trust beneficiaries pays no income tax. The beneficiaries pay income taxes on funds given to them.
Family Trusts & Taxes. A family trust is a legal entity created to hold assets of a family, such as a business or an estate. Those with an interest in the asset, called settlers, designate a trustee to oversee the assets, such as operating the business or distributing an estate. Those who benefit are beneficiaries.
Trust Income. The trust must also pay tax on any income it receives over $600, or if all its income is not passed on or distributed to beneficiaries. For example, if the trust earned $30,000 over the course of the year, and if it paid out $25,000, the IRS isn't going to turn a blind eye to that additional $5,000.
If the trust is revocable, the IRS will consider its income your income and tax you accordingly. If the trust is irrevocable, its assets are not yours and the trustee must file a tax return on behalf of the trust.
1 The trust is a taxable entity. 2  Beneficiaries usually have to pay tax on the income that they receive from the trust. 3  Trusts are not subject to double taxation, so any taxable income distributed to the beneficiaries is deductible by
Federal Taxes. State taxes on family trusts vary, but federal laws require family trusts to pay taxes on income it keeps but not on any that is distributed. A trust that earns $50,000 and distributes it all to trust beneficiaries pays no income tax. The beneficiaries pay income taxes on funds given to them.
A trust is allowed a deduction for income distributed to beneficiaries. The income distribution deduction is figured by completing Schedule B of Form 1041. The beneficiary, not the trust, pays the income tax on the taxable amount of the distributions.
Revocability. The tax benefits of a family trust depend on whether it is revocable or irrevocable. You can dissolve or amend a revocable trust at your discretion, but you normally need either a court order or the consent of all beneficiaries to dissolve or amend an irrevocable trust.