Aug. 20, 2014 -- Scientists have long studied the link between our genes and our health. Now, in a growing area of scientific research, they're studying the link between the bacteria in our intestines and virtually every disease that ails us. Ongoing research reveals that people with certain diseases often have a very different mix of bacteria in their intestines compared to healthier people. Researchers are working to define the makeup of gut bacteria in a healthy person vs. the gut bacteria that can point to higher risk or presence of certain diseases.
Bug facts. • There are more bacteria in your large intestine than there are humans on this planet. • The only time anyone’s gut is ever completely free from bacteria is during the nine months spent inside their mother’s womb. A baby meets its first microorganisms in the birth canal. While every part of the digestive system has its own role in food processing, the large intestine (sometimes called the colon) is particularly interesting, because it is home to a vast population of bacteria. This busy little internal ecosystem is crucial for our health. We need bacteria
Many wellness experts have taught that making sure one’s intestines are in good shape and well stocked with protective & cleansing bacteria is the single most important health practice that a person can have. The reason is that protective bacteria fight harmful bacteria, which are the # 1 villain of human health. 1 The intestines need to be maintained free of mucoidal gel and harmful bacteria or else the intestines will become a factory for the creation of bacterial exotoxins and other noxious molecules that may enter our blood stream in the amount of billions of molecules per day.
The healthy human body is home to some 100 trillion bacteria. They are on the surface of the skin, inside the mouth, nose and uro-genitary tract, but most live in the large intestine. More than 1000 different types (known as species) live in your large intestine alone. While every part of the digestive system has its own role in food processing, the large intestine (sometimes called the colon) is particularly interesting, because it is home to a vast population of bacteria. This busy little internal ecosystem is crucial for our health. We need bacteria
In fact,it is likely that we have K. pneumoniae in our intestine from eating raw foodssuch as salads. Two research papers on surveys of bacteria in sprouts found K.pneumoniae to be a predominant part of the microflora3. One research paper found 4% of the lettuce they tested containedKlebsiella pneumoniae4. We all have millions of bacteria in ourgastrointestinal tracts, primarily in the colon (or large bowel).These bacteria are important for normal bowel health and function.
Bacteria line your intestines and help you digest food. During digestion, they make vitamins that are vital for life, send signals to the immune system, and make small molecules that can help your brain work. “Without gut bacteria, we wouldn’t be anything. They are a critical part of us and essential to our health,” Snyder says. Ongoing research reveals that people with certain diseases often have a very different mix of bacteria in their intestines compared to healthier people. Researchers are working to define the makeup of gut bacteria in a healthy person vs. the gut bacteria that can point to higher risk or presence of certain diseases.
Gut flora or, more appropriately, gut microbiota, consists of a complex community of microorganism species that live in the digestive tracts of animals and is the largest reservoir of microorganisms mutual to humans. In this context gut is synonymous with intestinal, and flora with microbiota and microflora. Intestinal bacteria also play a role in synthesizing vitamin B and vitamin K as well as metabolizing bile acids, sterols and xenobiotics. The human body carries about 100 trillion microorganisms in its intestines, a number ten times greater than the total number of human cells in the body. The metabolic activities performed by these bacteria resemble those of an organ, leading some to liken gut bacteria to a forgotten organ
E. coli bacteria are everywhere in the environment. E. coli and other kinds of bacteria are found in our intestines and are necessary for us to digest food and remain healthy. E. coli, along with other species of bacteria in our intestine, provide many necessary vitamins including Vitamin K and B-complex vitamins. We have billions of E.coli bacteria in our bodies, making things we need, helpingdigest our food and maintaining our health. Because these bacteria can be found in human and animal intestines, you can find these bacteria in the waste (feces) we produce