From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The shortnose sturgeon (Acipenser brevirostrum) is a small North American sturgeon which can be found in 16 to 19 large river and estuary systems along the Atlantic seaboard from the Saint John River in New Brunswick, Canada, to the St. Johns River in Florida, United States. Prior to 1973, U.S. commercial fishing records did not differentiate between the two species, both were reported as common sturgeon, although it is believed based on sizes that the bulk of the catch was Atlantic sturgeon.
In New York State, the shortnose sturgeon is only found in the lower portion of the Hudson River from the southern tip of Manhattan (river mile 0) upriver to the Federal dam at Troy (river mile 152). Unlike most fish species, spawning is not a yearly event for most shortnose sturgeon. Males spawn every other year and females every third year. Females lay between 40,000-200,000 eggs which hatch in approximately 13 days.
A combination of factors can be blamed for declines in shortnose sturgeon populations. During the 1800s and early 1900s, large tidal rivers, such as the Hudson, served as dumping grounds for pollutants that lead to major oxygen depletions and resulting high fish losses. Unlike most fish species, spawning is not a yearly event for most shortnose sturgeon. Males spawn every other year and females every third year. Females lay between 40,000-200,000 eggs which hatch in approximately 13 days.
The shortnose sturgeon (Acipenser brevirostrum) formerly occupied rivers and estuaries along the Atlantic seaboard from New Brunswick to northern Florida [1]. It was driven to near extinction by overfishing, by-catch in the shad fishery, damming of rivers, habitat destruction, and deterioration of water quality. 
A large fish, the shortnose sturgeon reaches up to 3.5 feet in length and 14 pounds in weight. It is quite prehistoric, almost sharklike in appearance with five rows of pale bony plates (called scutes) covering its dark body. 
The shortnose sturgeon has been federally listed as endangered since the inception of the Endangered Species Act in 1973. Both shortnose and Atlantic sturgeon once thrived in the Delaware River, occurring in huge numbers that far exceeded those found in the Hudson. The Delaware River provides critical habitat to New Jersey’s only endangered fish species – the shortnose sturgeon (Acipenser brevirostrum). It can be found throughout the Delaware River estuary, occasionally entering the nearshore ocean off Delaware Bay.
The shortnose sturgeon is the smallest of New York's sturgeons, rarely exceeding 3.5 feet in length and 14 pounds in weight. It has a short, conical snout with four barbels in front of its large underslung mouth. Unlike most fish species, spawning is not a yearly event for most shortnose sturgeon. Males spawn every other year and females every third year. Females lay between 40,000-200,000 eggs which hatch in approximately 13 days.
Shortnose sturgeon were originally listed as an endangered species by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) on March 11, 1967 Read More. . . The shortnose sturgeon is the smallest of the three sturgeon species occurring in eastern North America, and typically do not exceed lengths of 4.7 feet (1.4m). Shortnose sturgeon can be found in major rivers, estuaries, bays and coastal waters along the eastern seaboard of the United States. Shortnose sturgeon are listed under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) as an endangered species throughout their range in the United States
The Atlantic sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus oxyrinchus) is a North American member of the Acipenseridae family and is among the oldest fish species in the world. It is one of two subspecies of A. oxyrinchus, the other being the Gulf sturgeon, A. o. desotoi. In areas where shortnose sturgeon are also present, the adults of that species can be, and historically were for centuries, confused with immature Atlantic sturgeon. When mature, they travel upstream to spawn. The females may lay 800,000 to 3.75 million eggs in a single year, doing so every two to six years.