The binding of an inhibitor can stop a substrate from entering the enzyme's active site and/or hinder the enzyme from catalyzing its reaction. Inhibitor binding is either reversible or irreversible. Irreversible inhibitors usually react with the enzyme and change it chemically (e.g. via covalent bond formation). An enzyme inhibitor is a molecule that binds to an enzyme and decreases its activity. Since blocking an enzyme's activity can kill a pathogen or correct a metabolic imbalance, many drugs are enzyme inhibitors
Inhibit. Definition. verb. (general). To hold back, curb, hinder, restrain, prohibit, or arrest; as in to inhibit an action. (chemistry, biology). To limit, prevent or block the action or function of; as in to inhibit an enzyme, or to inhibit a chemical reaction. (psychology). To suppress or restrain a behavior, an impulse, or a desire consciously or unconsciously
Medical Definition of FEEDBACK INHIBITION. : inhibition of an enzyme controlling an early stage of a series of biochemical reactions by the end product when it reaches a critical concentration. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : inhibition of an enzyme controlling an early stage of a series of biochemical reactions by the end product when it reaches a critical ....
Non-competitive redirects here. For other uses, see Competition. Non-competitive inhibition is a type of enzyme inhibition where the inhibitor reduces the activity of the enzyme and binds equally well to the enzyme whether or not it has already bound the substrate. The most common mechanism of non-competitive inhibition involves reversible binding of the inhibitor to an allosteric site, but it is possible for the inhibitor to operate via other means including direct binding to the active site.
competitive inhibitor. 1. A chemical that binds to or blocks another reagent from participating in a reaction. 2. A medication, hormone, or other intercellular messenger that binds and blocks the cellular receptor or target enzyme of another agent. Drugs that act by competitive inhibition may treat or prevent disease by inactivating pathogenic enzymes or by blocking the effects of hormones or precursor molecules.
Non-competitive inhibition(D) occurs when an inhibitor is able to prevent the enzyme from binding with the reactant by binding to the enzyme at a site away from the active site, and change the enzyme’s conformation so it cannot bind to the reactant. 
in·hi·bi·tion. n. 1. The act of inhibiting or the state of being inhibited. 2. Something that restrains, blocks, or suppresses. 3. Psychology Conscious or unconscious restraint of a behavioral process, desire, or impulse. 4. a. Chemistry The condition in which or the process by which a reaction is inhibited. inhibition. n. 1. the act of inhibiting or the condition of being inhibited. 2. (Psychology) psychol. a. a mental state or condition in which the varieties of expression and behaviour of an individual become restricted.
1 In non-competitive inhibition, the binding of the inhibitor to the enzyme reduces its activity but does not affect the binding of substrate. 2  As a result, the extent of inhibition depends only on the concentration of the inhibitor. An enzyme inhibitor is a molecule that binds to an enzyme and decreases its activity. Since blocking an enzyme's activity can kill a pathogen or correct a metabolic imbalance, many drugs are enzyme inhibitors