Here’s the song listing of the first series of Tiger Aspect & Caryn Mandabach Productions ‘s gangster drama Peaky Blinders set in 1920’s Birmingham, starring Cillian Murphy, Sam Neil and Helen McCrory which airs on BBC Two. 
Murphy plays Tommy Shelby, who led the Peaky Blinders in the early 20th Century, and also stars Sam Neill and Helen McCrory. The plot focuses on that early 20th Century era, highlighting the gang members who returned to the poor and crime-ridden streets of Britain's second city after World War One. The notorious Peaky Blinders-a terrifying Brummie mob who ruled the industrialised areas of Birmingham through the 1880s, 1890s and early 1900s-have been unmasked for the first time. The criminals' assaults often caused their victims to lose their eyes in vicious fights.
Gang members could start out as young as 13, like David Taylor, left, and often had run-ins with Birmingham's police. The Peaky Blinders ran their crime ring in the backstreets of Birmingham (pictured). Thomas Gilbert, much older than the others at 38, was arrested for the crime of 'false pretences'. The Peaky Blinders' charge sheets were dug up from the archives of the West Midlands Police museum. The shots were brought out of the archives today by West Midlands Police ahead of the six-part series, which will be shown on BBC2 from tomorrow.
In part one of a two part series, ZOE CHAMBERLAIN talks to historian and Mail columnist Carl Chinn about the city’s real Peaky Blinders. Mesmerising and dark, the BBC series of the Peaky Blinders tells of the rise of gangster Thomas Shelby and his criminal gang. But these fictional characters echo a truth that is just as dramatic, bloody and compelling as the weekly plot lines. TOMORROW: The descendents of the Birmingham gangsters portrayed in the Peaky Blinders TV series – as told in their own words.
It appears that inspired by the original gang, the name “peaky-blinders” had quickly overshadowed them and become shorthand for saying violent, poor, rough youths. Ruffians. In fact anyone society could look down on and be scared of, whether they needed to be or not. The gritty historical drama Peaky Blinders has ended it’s second series on BBC2 just in time for the DVD to become a slightly grim Christmas gift.
Costume designer Stephanie Collie keeps everything as accessible as possible. Although the Peaky Blinders gang did exist (so called because they hid razor blades in their caps), this isn’t a history lesson or social realism, it’s a Hollywood movie spread out across six episodes. Let’s get this straight: Peaky Blinders is not Boardwalk Empire. It’s a post World War I gangster drama, during roughly the same time period (1919 as opposed to the early 20’s), it’s gritty, features loyal yet warring brothers, is as cool as ice chips and doesn’t pull any punches.
Baby face. Harry Fowles, a member of the gang. The Peaky Blinders were a criminal gang based in Birmingham, England, in the late 19th century and to a lesser extent, in the early 20th century. They were one of the many urban youth gangs in the era, which were among the earliest of modern street subcultures. According to Carl Chinn, the name Peaky Blinders is popularly said to derive from the practice of stitching razor blades into the peak of their flat caps, which could then be used as weapons.