Usually, people do not spend more than 3 to 5 days in the hospital after hip replacement surgery. Full recovery from the surgery takes about 3 to 6 months, depending on the type of surgery, your overall health, and the success of your rehabilitation. It describes what a hip replacement is, who should have it, and alternatives to surgery. If surgery is required, it explains what the surgery involves, recovery, and rehabilitation. If you have further questions, you may wish to discuss them with your health care provider.
How long does hip replacement surgery take depends upon the severity of arthritis present in a patient’s hip. However, complete surgery for hip replacement might take an hour or so as well. How long does hip replacement surgery takes also depends upon the time during which a patient might stay at a hospital for his/her surgery.
What we know today about the long-term outcomes of hip replacement surgery comes from studies of joints that were replaced 10 to 20 years ago or longer. People who have hip replacement surgery today may expect the artificial joint to last longer than joints replaced 10 to 20 years ago. Total hip replacement surgery replaces damaged cartilage with new joint material in a step-by-step process. Doctors may attach replacement joints to the bones with or without cement. 1  Cemented joints are attached to the existing bone with cement, which acts as a glue and attaches the artificial joint to the bone.
How long does hip replacement surgery take also depends upon how soon the surgeon or the doctor lifts hip precautions from a patient. For instance, if the doctor finds progress in the condition of the patient, then that doctor might lift the hip precautions from a patient during that patient’s one-month visit only. However, complete surgery for hip replacement might take an hour or so as well. How long does hip replacement surgery takes also depends upon the time during which a patient might stay at a hospital for his/her surgery.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. Adapted by MNT from original media release. Rate this article (click stars to rate).
Rehabilitation (rehab) after hip replacement surgery may vary depending on whether the surgeon used cement or cementless methods to attach the joint replacement surfaces. Whether your surgeon used cement also determines how much weight you can put on your leg. Total hip replacement surgery replaces damaged cartilage with new joint material in a step-by-step process. Doctors may attach replacement joints to the bones with or without cement. 1  Cemented joints are attached to the existing bone with cement, which acts as a glue and attaches the artificial joint to the bone.
1 Hip dislocation after surgery. 2  It is rare to have a hip dislocation after hip replacement surgery. 3  Your doctor can usually treat this by moving the hip back into place after giving you pain medicine or anesthetic. Total hip replacement surgery replaces damaged cartilage with new joint material in a step-by-step process. Doctors may attach replacement joints to the bones with or without cement. 1  Cemented joints are attached to the existing bone with cement, which acts as a glue and attaches the artificial joint to the bone.
For anywhere from six to 12 months after hip replacement surgery, pivoting or twisting on the involved leg should be avoided. You should also not cross the involved leg past the midline of the body nor turn the involved leg inward and you should not bend at the hip past 90 degrees. 
For most people it is safe to have sex about 4 to 6 weeks after a hip replacement. Talk to your doctor about how and when it is safe. And ask your physical therapist or occupational therapist about positions that will not put your new hip joint at risk. Total hip replacement surgery replaces damaged cartilage with new joint material in a step-by-step process. Doctors may attach replacement joints to the bones with or without cement. 1  Cemented joints are attached to the existing bone with cement, which acts as a glue and attaches the artificial joint to the bone.