Leiomyosarcoma (Gr. smooth muscle connective tissue tumor), also referred to as LMS, is a malignant (cancerous) smooth muscle tumor. It must not be confused with leiomyoma, which is a benign tumor originating from the same tissue. Leiomyosarcoma is a relatively rare form of cancer, and accounts for 5–10% of soft tissue sarcomas, which are in themselves relatively rare. Leiomyosarcomas can be very unpredictable. They can remain dormant for long periods of time and recur after years
General Discussion. A uterine leiomyosarcoma is a rare malignant (cancerous) tumor that arises from the smooth muscle lining the walls of the uterus (myometrium). There are essentially two types of muscles in the body: voluntary and involuntary. Smooth muscles are involuntary muscles; the brain has no conscious control over them. Leiomyosarcoma is a form of cancer. The term  cancer  refers to a group of diseases characterized by abnormal, uncontrolled cellular growth that invades surrounding tissues and may spread (metastasize) to distant bodily tissues or organs via the bloodstream, the lymphatic system, or other means.
Leiomyosarcoma is a malignant (cancerous) tumor that arises from smooth muscle Cells There are essentially two types of muscles in the body-voluntary and involuntary. Smooth muscles are involuntary muscles-the brain has no conscious control over them. It is very rare to see it in lymphatics. Since smooth muscle is found all over the body, a leiomyosarcoma can form almost anywhere where there are blood vessels, heart, liver, pancreas, genitourinary and gastrointestinal tract, the space behind the abdominal cavity (retroperitoneum), uterus, skin.
Overview. Leiomyosarcoma is a rare cancerous tumor that consists of smooth (involuntary) muscle cells. Leiomyosarcoma is a type of sarcoma. It spreads through the blood stream and can affect the lungs, liver, blood vessels, or any other soft tissue in the body. The exact cause of leiomyosarcoma is not known, although genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved.
Leiomyosarcoma is classified as a soft tissue sarcoma. Sarcomas are malignant tumors that arise from the connective tissue, which connects, supports and surrounds various structures and organs in the body. Soft tissue includes fat, muscle, nerves, tendons, and blood and lymph vessels. It is very rare to see it in lymphatics. Since smooth muscle is found all over the body, a leiomyosarcoma can form almost anywhere where there are blood vessels, heart, liver, pancreas, genitourinary and gastrointestinal tract, the space behind the abdominal cavity (retroperitoneum), uterus, skin.
Leiomyosarcoma is a form of cancer. The term  cancer  refers to a group of diseases characterized by abnormal, uncontrolled cellular growth that invades surrounding tissues and may spread (metastasize) to distant body sites via the bloodstream, the lymphatic system, or other means. It is very rare to see it in lymphatics. Since smooth muscle is found all over the body, a leiomyosarcoma can form almost anywhere where there are blood vessels, heart, liver, pancreas, genitourinary and gastrointestinal tract, the space behind the abdominal cavity (retroperitoneum), uterus, skin.
Signs and symptoms of Leiomyosarcoma. People with early leiomyosarcoma often do not have any symptoms. Most leiomyosarcomas are diagnosed after a person develops symptoms. These may include: 1  a lump or swelling. 2  abdominal discomfort or bloatedness. 3  swelling or pain in any area of the body. Leiomyosarcoma. A leiomyosarcoma belongs to a group of rare cancers called soft tissue sarcomas. Sarcomas are cancers that develop in the supporting or connective tissues of the body, such as muscle, fat, nerves, blood vessels, bone and cartilage.
Leiomyosarcoma. Leiomyosarcoma (LMS) is a rare form of cancer that most commonly affects the uterus but can also affect other areas such as the bladder or gastrointestinal system. It is designated as a “soft tissue sarcoma” and originates in the smooth or involuntary muscle. Click here for more information. Leiomyosarcoma (LMS) is a rare form of cancer that most commonly affects the uterus but can also affect other areas such as the bladder or gastrointestinal system.