The most recognizable symbol of the organization is the blue corduroy FFA jacket that is worn by current FFA members. The back of the jacket features a large FFA emblem just underneath the name of each FFA member's state. The name of the local FFA chapter, district, region or area is embroidered below the emblem. In 1988 the name was changed to the National FFA Organization, now commonly referred to as simply FFA, to recognize that the organization is for those with diverse interests in the food, fiber and natural resource industries, encompassing science, business and technology in addition to production agriculture.
We want to see photos of you in your FFA jacket! Email your best FFA jacket photos to us (ffanation@jnlcom.com). Be sure to include your name, chapter, state and years of FFA membership. Also describe what makes this photo special. Video: Shoot a short clip of yourself completing these statements. Cell phone videos are fine! Then either email the video to us (ffanation@jnlcom.com) or post it to YouTube, then email us the link. Be sure to include your name, chapter, state and years of FFA membership. Here are some tips to make sure your video looks good (and has a better chance of being used). 1  Can be recorded with any device (iPhone, Tablet, Webcam) provided it is Widescreen Horizontal. 2  Vertical videos cannot be accepted.
Armstrong-Gustafson says the FFA jacket is life-changing because of everything it represents. “What I learned in FFA between the ages of 14 and 18, I continue to use every day of my life in business, community service or in my home,” she continues. “Getting a jacket was a big deal because FFA members wore their jackets at that time as a normal jacket. It ranked right up there with the letter jacket that the basketball and baseball players wore,” Armstrong recalls. “Since our school was so small, many had both, which were worn with school pride.
1 Comment. The FFA Jacket, adopted in 1933 as part of the “official dress” for the National FFA Organization, is nearing is 80th anniversary. This jacket means a lot too many present and former members of the National FFA Organization. The FFA jacket means a lot to me, as an FFA member, because of all the memories and friends I have made wearing it. I will never forget when I got my first FFA Jacket. My Ag teacher, Mrs. Pike, helped me order my jacket. When it came in she gave me a small piece of paper. (I strongly encourage everyone to do this when they get their first jacket.) The paper said to list three goals for yourself as an FFA member.
The FFA mission statement, colors,emblem, motto, and creed create an image in the minds ofmembers and supporters of what the organization represents. Objectives: 1. Explain the meaning of the FFA mission statement.2. Explain the meaning of the FFA colors and emblem.3. Explain the meaning of the FFA motto and creed. Key Terms: The FFA Mission A mission statement for any organization is a simple declaration of what the purpose of thatorganization is. 
The members of the National FFA Organization liked the jacket design so much that they adopted it as part of the “official dress” in 1933. Differences in Jackets from Then and from Now. There is however a few differences in the old FFA Jackets and the new ones we wear today. The vintage ones had snaps not zippers. I will never forget when I got my first FFA Jacket. My Ag teacher, Mrs. Pike, helped me order my jacket. When it came in she gave me a small piece of paper. (I strongly encourage everyone to do this when they get their first jacket.) The paper said to list three goals for yourself as an FFA member.
The National FFA Emblem. The cross section of the ear of corn provides the foundation of the emblem, just as corn has historically served as the foundation crop of American agriculture. It is also a symbol of unity, as corn is grown in every state of the nation.
Once Blue, Forever Blue. I t’s the most recognizable symbol of the National FFA Organization, and if you ask FFA members past and present about their feelings for the FFA jacket, they’ll bubble over with pride when they talk about what the jacket has meant to them. Take, for example, Derek Schmidt of the Peabody-Burns FFA Chapter in Kansas. “Getting a jacket was a big deal because FFA members wore their jackets at that time as a normal jacket. It ranked right up there with the letter jacket that the basketball and baseball players wore,” Armstrong recalls. “Since our school was so small, many had both, which were worn with school pride.
The official FFA jacket was introduced and accepted by the delegates at the 1933 National FFA Convention. So if you do the math, this fall, we will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the blue corduroy jacket we all love so much! Be sure to include your name, chapter, state and years of FFA membership. Here are some tips to make sure your video looks good (and has a better chance of being used). 1  Can be recorded with any device (iPhone, Tablet, Webcam) provided it is Widescreen Horizontal. 2  Vertical videos cannot be accepted.
The front of the FFA jacket features a smaller FFA emblem on the left chest and the FFA member's name and sometimes, if applicable, office and year on the right chest. FFA members are required to wear the FFA jacket as part of official dress while participating in all official organization activities. Originally created to be worn by the Fredericktown Band of the Fredericktown FFA Chapter by Dr. Gus Lintner, the FFA Jacket was adopted in 1933. In 1988 the name was changed to the National FFA Organization, now commonly referred to as simply FFA, to recognize that the organization is for those with diverse interests in the food, fiber and natural resource industries, encompassing science, business and technology in addition to production agriculture.