The FACT is that most Raspberry Ketone extracts do not come from the same source proven effective in clinical studies. In addition, most are not formulated with the proper dosage, nor do they contain enough Raspberry Ketone to be effective. Raspberry Key™ is made from only 100% Raspberry Ketone and is the purest extract available. The majority of clinical studies, as well as The famous TV Show, have concluded that only pure-grade raspberry ketone with no fillers will meet the criteria.
Origins: Castoreum (or castor, not to be confused with the oil of a castor bean) is a yellowish-brown, unctuous substance with a strong, penetrating odor which beavers secrete from castor sacs located in skin cavities between the pelvis and the base of the tail and spray when scent-marking their territory. All vanilla extracts are free of it, too, wherever you go.. Acute toxicity studies in animals indicate that castoreum extract is nontoxic by both oral and dermal routes of administration and is not irritating or phototoxic to skin.
I would only buy a pure product. 4) Do not expect to lose more than 30 pounds with a single bottle of raspberry ketone. You can lose up to 7 pounds during your first week with this supplement, but if a website promises you more than 30 pounds weight loss from only 1 bottle (30-60 capsules) be very cautious. Raspberry Ketone reviews have been gaining popularity recently, in large part because Dr. Oz featured them on his award winning television show as a weight loss wonder. Dr. Oz was very excited about the potential for fat loss that the Raspberry Ketone diet affords.
When ketones are taken from raspberries, they can be used to add fragrance and flavor to things such as colas, ice cream, and cosmetics. Experts say that investing in a bottle of raspberry ketone supplements amounts to little more than wishful thinking. And it may or may not be harmful. 
Castoreum is the yellowish secretion of the castor sac. Beavers use castoreum in combination with urine to scent mark territory. Both beaver sexes have a pair of castor sacs and a pair of anal glands, located in two cavities under the skin between the pelvis and the base of the tail. Castoreum /kaesˈtɔriəm/ kæsˈtɔriəm is the exudate from the castor sacs of the Mature North American (Beaver castor) canadensis and The European (Beaver castor). Fiber castoreum is the yellowish secretion of the castor. sac
Raspberry ketone occurs in a variety of fruits including raspberries, cranberries and blackberries. It is biosynthesized from coumaroyl-CoA. Extraction of pure raspberry ketone is usually 1–4 mg per kg of raspberries. Since the natural abundance of raspberry ketone is very low, it is prepared industrially by a variety of methods from chemical intermediates. One of the ways this can be done is through a crossed aldol-catalytic hydrogenation.
1) Make sure the supplement is made in the USA. 2) Make sure it is caffeine-free. 3) Certified, certified...certified! Always choose certified raspberry ketone products if you seriously want to lose weight and be safe. Raspberry ketone is extracted from the natural compounds of raspberry where all the important nutrients and extract are kept. That's why the high quality product is completely safe and free from any side effects. Be sure to choose the original certified products to see the result
It is one of the most expensive natural flavor components used in the food industry. The natural compound can cost as much as $20,000 per kg. Synthetic raspberry ketone is cheaper, with estimates ranging from a couple of dollars per pound to one fifth of the cost of natural product. Since the natural abundance of raspberry ketone is very low, it is prepared industrially by a variety of methods from chemical intermediates. One of the ways this can be done is through a crossed aldol-catalytic hydrogenation.