Details. CMP-14 - The Comprehensive Metabolic Panel is a group of 14 laboratory tests ordered to give information about the current status of your liver, kidneys, and electrolyte and acid/base balance. The test gives the current status of your blood sugar and blood proteins also. 
Liver Function. ALT, ALP and AST are liver enzymes, and bilirubin is a byproduct of red blood cell hemolysis in the liver. Abnormal levels of ALT, ALP, AST and bilirubin indicate liver damage or disease. The comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) blood test is group of 14 blood tests that evaluate organ function. ...
Already Answered Questions about this Laboratory Test. Click below to see already answered questions about this laboratory test. my MCV & MCH keep rising & my MCHC is low. I am 67 yrs old and getting concerned that my blood levels keep changing and to my reasoning after reading this site, not necessarily to the good. …. MCV LEVEL. My blood mcv level came back as 100. Your Guide is Right Here. Your Blood Test Abbreviations guide is right here. Look for the blood test abbreviations in alphabetical order. Please look at the Understanding Blood Test Results page for more help with reading and Interpreting your blood tests.
Topic Overview. A comprehensive metabolic panel is a blood test that measures your sugar (glucose) level, electrolyte and fluid balance, kidney function, and liver function. 
What It Is. A comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) is a blood test that provides information about: 1  how the kidney and liver are functioning. 2  sugar (glucose) and protein levels in the blood. 3  the body's electrolyte and fluid balance. 
OTHER RELEVANT TESTS: Most customers who are interested in the CMP decide to upgrade to the Basic Check‐Up Panel, a Comprehensive Male Panel or the Comprehensive Female Panel. All of these Value Panels include the Comprehensive Metabolic Panel as well as other important tests. 
What It Is. A comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) is a blood test that provides information about: 1  how the kidney and liver are functioning. 2  sugar (glucose) and protein levels in the blood. 3  the body's electrolyte and fluid balance. 
Save. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. The comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) blood test is group of 14 blood tests that evaluate organ function. Physicians often order the CMP blood test as part of an annual physical, or your doctor may order the test to investigate an existing complaint or symptom. The comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) blood test is group of 14 blood tests that evaluate organ function. ...
An Overview of the CMP Blood Test. written by: Loretta Snyder•edited by: Diana Cooper•updated: 8/26/2010. The CMP blood test is several tests rolled into one. This combination may alert the physician to potential health issues regarding kidney and liver function, as well as diabetes and hypertension. Overview. A comprehensive metabolic panel, or CMP, is a blood test that is often ordered by physicians as part of a routine physical exam. The blood test is used to assess liver and kidney functions and to help diagnose medical conditions such as diabetes or hypertension.