Edema Overview. Edema (or Oedema) is the abnormal accumulation of fluid in certain tissues within the body. The accumulation of fluid may be under the skin-usually in dependent areas such as the legs (peripheral edema, or ankle edema), or it may accumulate in the lungs (pulmonary edema).
Dihydropyridine-induced edema can be treated with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin-receptor blocker. Lymphedema occurs when a protein-rich fluid accumulates in the interstitium. Compression garments and range-of-motion exercises may be helpful in patients with this condition.
Furosemide is the most commonly prescribed drug for treating edema. 4. Get treated for underlying causes. Edema may be caused by pregnancy or certain medications, but there are also many diseases and underlying medical conditions that can cause edema. If you experience edema without knowing the cause, it's very important to get immediate medical attention to determine what's going on.
Edema can be temporary or permanent, depending on its cause. Edema is treated according to the condition that is causing it. 1  For example, if edema is caused by lung disease, such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis, quitting smoking would be advised if the patient smokes.
In this article. Edema is the medical term for swelling. It is a general response of the body to injury or inflammation. Edema can be isolated to a small area or affect the entire body. Medications, infections, pregnancy, and many medical problems can cause edema.
Heart failure can cause swelling in the legs and abdomen, as well as other symptoms. Heart failure can also cause fluid to accumulate in the lungs (pulmonary edema), causing shortness of breath. This can be a very dangerous condition requiring emergency treatment.
Swelling in the legs is often caused by edema, which can be treated with at-home remedies. About 4.4 million people in the U.S. suffer from edema. Also called “water retention,” edema is a condition where fluid accumulates beneath the skin somewhere in the body, creating a puffy appearance.