A. a muscle cell B. an amoeba C. a rosebush D. an earthworm. Weegy: A. a muscle cell. A is the only of the choices which is not a living organism. (More). Question. Expert Answered. User: Which of the following is NOT a living organism? User: Which of the following is NOT a living organism? A. a muscle cell B. an amoeba C. a rosebush D. an earthworm Weegy: A. a muscle cellExpert answered|danimai|Points 501|.
Muscle cells —Muscle cells help the body move. These cells have a long, thin shape and structures that allow the cells to shorten or lengthen as they contract or relax. Fat cells -- Fat cells store food until it is needed. These cells have large storage spaces that can expand to hold large amounts of fat. 
All known prokaryotes, such as bacteria and archaea, are single cells. In contrast, if the DNA is partitioned off in its own membrane-bound room called the nucleus, then that cell is a eukaryote. Some eukaryotes, like amoebae, are free-living, single-celled entities. Other eukaryotic cells are part of multicellular organisms. That's because all cells are surrounded by a structure called the cell membrane — which, much like the walls of a house, serves as a clear boundary between the cell's internal and external environments. The cell membrane is sometimes also referred to as the plasma membrane.
Cells are the structural and functional units of any living organism. Cells form the basic building blocks of living things. It was discovered by Robert Hooke. All living organisms are made up of cells. There are about 100 trillion or 1014 cells in the human body. The size of a single cell is about 10micrometer.
FIND OUT MORE. The tiniest living unit that exists is a cell. Cells are the building blocks of all organisms. Each cell has a nucleus containing a set of building instructions called GENES. 
1 The lowest form of organization is the cell followed by tissues, organs, and organ systems. 2  A tissue is a group of similar cells in an organism working together to perform a particular function (e.g. nerve or muscle tissue). 1 Cells are arranged in hierarchical levels of organization. 2  The lowest form of organization is the cell followed by tissues, organs, and organ systems. 3
Other forms of life, however, are made of only a single cell, such as the many species of bacteria and protozoa. Cells, whether living on their own or as part of a multicellular organism, are usually too small to be seen without a light microscope. That's because all cells are surrounded by a structure called the cell membrane — which, much like the walls of a house, serves as a clear boundary between the cell's internal and external environments. The cell membrane is sometimes also referred to as the plasma membrane.
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. Cells consist of cytoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids. Organisms can be classified as unicellular (consisting of a single cell; including bacteria) or multicellular (including plants and animals)
All known types of organisms are capable of some degree of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development and homeostasis. An organism consists of one or more cells; when it has one cell is a unicellular organism; and when it has more than one it is known as a multicellular organism. Most unicellular organisms are of microscopic size and are thus classified as microorganisms. Today, there is strong evidence from genetics that all organisms have a common ancestor. For example, every living cell makes use of nucleic acids as its genetic material, and uses the same twenty amino acids as the building blocks for proteins.
In complex multicellular organisms, cells specialize into different cell types that are adapted to particular functions. In mammals, major cell types include skin cells, muscle cells, neurons, blood cells, fibroblasts, stem cells, and others. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. Cells consist of cytoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.