The changes that happen during the process of puberty have a typical pattern in both boys and girls, with a generally predictable sequence of events. In most girls, the first sign of puberty is the beginning of breast development, which occurs at an average age of approximately 11 years. Enlargement of the testicles begins at an approximate average age of 11 and a half years in boys and lasts for about six months. After enlargement of the testicles, the penis also increases in size.
An increase in physical size is a universally recognized event of puberty. Average growth velocities decrease from the first year of life until puberty from 25 cm/year during the first year of life to 5-6 cm/year during years 5 to 10. The average growth spurt lasts 24-36 months. Growth during the year of PHV in the normal female averages 9 cm/yr and varies normally from 5.4 cm to 11.2 cm. In the normal male, the PHV averages 10.3 cm/yr and varies normally from 5.8 cm to 13.1 cm.
Sexual Maturity Ratings: female pubic hair stages click for full-size image MALE SEXUAL DEVELOPMENT Male sexual development generally begins with the attainment of stage G2, at an average age of 11.6 years (range 9.5-13.5 years). The first physical sign of puberty in 98% of males is testicular enlargement. The average growth spurt lasts 24-36 months. Growth during the year of PHV in the normal female averages 9 cm/yr and varies normally from 5.4 cm to 11.2 cm. In the normal male, the PHV averages 10.3 cm/yr and varies normally from 5.8 cm to 13.1 cm.
The average age at which the onset of puberty occurs has dropped significantly since the 1840s. This was dubbed 'the secular trend' by J. M. Tanner. In every decade from 1840 to 1950 there was a drop of four months in the average age of menarche among Western European females. In boys, testicular enlargement is the first physical manifestation of puberty (and is termed gonadarche). Testes in prepubertal boys change little in size from about 1 year of age to the onset of puberty, averaging about 2–3 cm in length and about 1.5–2 cm in width.
Maximal adult height is achieved at an average age of 15 years for an average girl and 18 years for an average boy. Potential fertility (sometimes termed nubility) usually precedes completion of growth by 1–2 years in girls and 3–4 years in boys. In boys, testicular enlargement is the first physical manifestation of puberty (and is termed gonadarche). Testes in prepubertal boys change little in size from about 1 year of age to the onset of puberty, averaging about 2–3 cm in length and about 1.5–2 cm in width.
Boys. 1  Boys enter puberty about one year later than girls. 2  The first sign is enlarge­ment of the testes and a thinning and reddening of the scrotum, which hap­pens at an average age of eleven but may occur anytime between nine to fourteen years. 1 For boys, the peak growth period occurs about two years after the beginning of puberty. 2  If a boy shows no signs of puberty by age 14, consult with your pediatrician. 3  See Physical Development in Boys: What to Expect.
1 Menstruation usually starts about 18 months to two years af­ter the onset of puberty. 2  On average, the first menses occur just before girls turn thirteen. 3  If a girl shows no signs of puberty by age 13, consult with your pediatrician. 4  See Physical Development in Girls: What to Expect. 1 For boys, the peak growth period occurs about two years after the beginning of puberty. 2  If a boy shows no signs of puberty by age 14, consult with your pediatrician. 3  See Physical Development in Boy
Girls usually complete puberty by ages 15–17, while boys usually complete puberty by ages 16–17. The major landmark of puberty for females is menarche, the onset of menstruation, which occurs on average between ages 12–13; for males, it is the first ejaculation, which occurs on average at age 13. In boys, testicular enlargement is the first physical manifestation of puberty (and is termed gonadarche). Testes in prepubertal boys change little in size from about 1 year of age to the onset of puberty, averaging about 2–3 cm in length and about 1.5–2 cm in width.
MALE SEXUAL DEVELOPMENT. Male sexual development generally begins with the attainment of stage G2, at an average age of 11.6 years (range 9.5-13.5 years). The first physical sign of puberty in 98% of males is testicular enlargement. The average growth spurt lasts 24-36 months. Growth during the year of PHV in the normal female averages 9 cm/yr and varies normally from 5.4 cm to 11.2 cm. In the normal male, the PHV averages 10.3 cm/yr and varies normally from 5.8 cm to 13.1 cm.
1 Boys enter puberty about one year later than girls. 2  The first sign is enlarge­ment of the testes and a thinning and reddening of the scrotum, which hap­pens at an average age of eleven but may occur anytime between nine to fourteen years. 1 For boys, the peak growth period occurs about two years after the beginning of puberty. 2  If a boy shows no signs of puberty by age 14, consult with your pediatrician. 3  See Physical Development in Boys: What to Expect.