It was on November 12, 1906, when Santos-Dumont flew a kite-like contraption with boxy wings called the 14-Bis some 722 feet (220 meters) on the outskirts of Paris. It being the first public flight in the world, he was hailed as the inventor of the airplane all over Europe. It was only later that the secretive Orville and Wilbur Wright proved they had beaten Santos-Dumont at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, three years earlier on December 17. 
The invention of airplane changed the way we travel and also made traveling very comfortable. Airplanes gave us the opportunity to explore different parts of the world. Tackling emergency situations like floods became easier. Airplanes are also an important part of the defense services. Invention of the Airplane. One of the biggest inventions of 20th century, the airplane has added a new dimension to our lives. It was an important invention that opened new vistas for advanced developments in the field of aviation.
The Wright brothers' invention is so technically and culturally significant that the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C., keeps the Wright Flyer on permanent display. For more information on inventors Orville and Wilbur Wright and their airplane invention, please visit: Time 100: The Wright Brothers. Inventors of the Week: Orville and Wilbur Wright. Wright Brothers & the Invention of the Aerial Age. Though only five people were there to witness the flight, the invention would eventually become one of the most important of the twentieth century – one that would unite people throughout the United States and the world. Inventors Orville and Wilbur Wright took a great interest in flight and invention from an early age.
Introduction. Wilbur and Orville Wright were American inventors and pioneers of aviation. In 1903 the Wright brothers achieved the first powered, sustained and controlled airplane flight; they surpassed their own milestone two years later when they built and flew the first fully practical airplane. Early life. Wilbur Wright was born on April 16, 1867, near Millville, Indiana. He was the middle child in a family of five children. His father, Milton Wright, was a bishop in the Church of the United Brethren in Christ.
It was within these papers that the ideas of thrust and lift were first explained. The two people most commonly linked with the invention of the airplane are the Wright Brothers. Wilbur Wright was born on 16th April, 1867 while his brother, Orville, was born on 19th August, 1871. Both left education at an early stage to set up their own bicycle repair store. The discovery of the airplane accelerated development in the transport industry. The time taken to travel greater distances has been dramatically reduced, and places have become increasingly more accessible.
The Wright brothers invented and flew the first airplane in 1903, recognized as the first sustained and controlled heavier-than-air powered flight. 
On December 17, 1903, a pair of inventors from Ohio named Orville and Wilbur Wright flew the world's first airplane. The invention, known as the Wright Flyer, took to the skies for 12 seconds, flying a distance of 120 feet. Though only five people were there to witness the flight, the invention would eventually become one of the most important of the twentieth century – one that would unite people throughout the United States and the world. Inventors Orville and Wilbur Wright took a great interest in flight and invention from an early age.
The Wright Brothers from USA invented the first airplane. Wilbur and Orville, the Wright Brothers were born on 16th April, 1867 and 19th August, 1871 respectively. They didn't continue their education after high school and instead decided to open a bicycle repair shop. Invention of the Airplane. One of the biggest inventions of 20th century, the airplane has added a new dimension to our lives. It was an important invention that opened new vistas for advanced developments in the field of aviation.
Orville and Wilbur Wright, American inventors and aviation pioneers, achieved the first powered, sustained, and controlled flight of an airplane.on the morning of December 17, 1903. Fascinating facts about the invention of the Airplane by Orville and Wilbur Wright in 1903.