Fossil fuels. Open cast coal mining. Coal, oil and natural gas are called fossil fuels. They formed millions of years ago from the remains of living things. Coal was formed from plants. Oil and natural gas were formed from sea creatures. The energy stored in the fossil fuels originally came from sunlight. Plants used light energy from the Sun for photosynthesis to make their chemicals.
Of the fossil fuels, coal is much more carbon intensive than oil or natural gas, resulting in greater volumes of carbon dioxide emissions per unit of electricity generated. In 2010, coal contributed about 81% of CO 2 emissions from generation and contributed about 45% of the electricity generated in the United States. A fossil-fuel power station is a power station which burns fossil fuel such as coal, natural gas or petroleum to produce electricity. Central station fossil-fuel power plants are designed on a large scale for continuous operation. In many countries, such plants provide most of the electrical energy used
In a fossil fuel power plant the chemical energy stored in fossil fuels such as coal, fuel oil, natural gas or oil shale and oxygen of the air is converted successively into thermal energy, mechanical energy and, finally, electrical energy. Each fossil fuel power plant is a complex, custom-designed system. A fossil-fuel power station is a power station which burns fossil fuel such as coal, natural gas or petroleum to produce electricity. Central station fossil-fuel power plants are designed on a large scale for continuous operation. In many countries, such plants provide most of the electrical energy used
Oil, petroleum, natural gas, gasoline, petrol, coal, coke: all these are types of what people call 'fossil fuels'. So why are they called 'fossil fuels'? Because, like fossils of shells or plants which you can find in some rocks, they are old, often hundreds of millions of years old. 
Where Fossil Fuels Come From. There are three major forms of fossil fuels: coal, oil and natural gas. All three were formed many hundreds of millions of years ago before the time of the dinosaurs – hence the name fossil fuels. The age they were formed is called the Carboniferous Period. It was part of the Paleozoic Era. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Coal, oil and gas are called fossil fuels because they have been formed from the organic remains of prehistoric plants and animals. Find out more about how they formed at www.energyquest.ca.gov/story/chapter08.h... Fossil fuels or mineral fuels are fossil source fuels, that is, hydrocarbons found within the top layer of the earth’s crust. They range from very volatile materials with low carbon:hydrogen ratios like methane, to liquid petroleum to nonvolatile materials composed of almost pure carbon, like anthracite coal.
Coal, petroleum,and natural gas, are called fossil fuels because  they were formed millions of years ago, during the Carboniferous  period. Propane is called a fossil fuel because it was formed millions of years ago from the remains of tiny sea animals and plants.  Propane is one of the many fuels that are includ … ed in the liquefied petroleum (or LP-gas) family.
Report Abuse. Fossil fuels or mineral fuels are fossil source fuels, that is, hydrocarbons found within the top layer of the earth’s crust. *Hydrocarbons... coal has carbon and hydrogen and so does petroleum which contains octane, a hydrocarbon. They are both found naturally on the earth's crust. Fossil fuels or mineral fuels are fossil source fuels, that is, hydrocarbons found within the top layer of the earth’s crust. They range from very volatile materials with low carbon:hydrogen ratios like methane, to liquid petroleum to nonvolatile materials composed of almost pure carbon, like anthracite coal.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The reason coal, oil and natural gas are called fossil fuels is that they are formed from the fossilized remains of ancient plants & animals. With the right amount of heat and pressure (as well as a tremendous amount of time), these fossils will be converted into coal, oil, and natural gas. Source(s): 