The surface of the metal around the sizing area gets buffed and re-worked when sizing smaller or doing any solder work. The metal finish will have to be matched to correspond to the original finish. Range of cost to reapply special finishes to your ring: $20 to $65. This is a continuation of my last week’s post about the cost of Sizing a Ring Larger vs Smaller. Do read last week’s post which lists different factors effecting ring sizing costs. Last week’s are different from those addressed in this week’s post.
Your final bill for resizing will depend upon the ring shape, gemstone setting and hand engraving skills of the jeweler. If you purchase extra gold for the bridging method that will cost more money. Otherwise, a general 14 ct yellow gold ring resizing of one level should be anywhere between $50 to $150. The exact price of the resizing will depend upon the method, type of ring, gems, settings, prongs and size. The two primary methods for resizing rings are 1) Stretching and 2) Bridging. There are advantages and disadvantages to either method.
Most jewelers will sacrifice quality of the work before they sacrifice the sale altogether. I would say that a reasonable ring sizing is in the neighborhood of $35-$90, and that’s for a less complex ladies ring. With today’s gold prices, sizing a thick men’s band could be closer to $200 and still be reasonable. Ask your jeweler what type of labor is involved in sizing your particular ring.
Resizing a ring is the process where a professional jeweler will take any type of ring and re-size to either a bigger or smaller size. As people grow older, finger shapes and sizes can change, making it hard to wear the ring comfortably. The cost of resizing a ring is going to depend on the type of ring, the jeweler performing the job, as well as other factors. 1 Making a ring larger, rather than smaller can cost more since additional material will be required to have the ring appropriately re-sized. 2  If stones have to be moved around within the ring, some jewelers may back out of the process because of the difficulty.
Unlike sizing a ring larger, in which gold (or platinum or silver) is added, in sizing a ring smaller gold is taken away. I am often asked what happens to the little piece of metal that was cut out of the shank. The answer is that it’s credited against the overall cost of the sizing. This is a continuation of my last week’s post about the cost of Sizing a Ring Larger vs Smaller. Do read last week’s post which lists different factors effecting ring sizing costs. Last week’s are different from those addressed in this week’s post.
All other factors being equal, sizing a ring smaller costs less than sizing a ring larger due to the reduced material costs. The range of cost for sizing a ring smaller, let’s say a simple thin gold ring with no gemstones sized a half to one full size: $30 to $45. This is a continuation of my last week’s post about the cost of Sizing a Ring Larger vs Smaller. Do read last week’s post which lists different factors effecting ring sizing costs. Last week’s are different from those addressed in this week’s post.
Ring resizing involves materials costs (gold/platinum) and labor charges (depends on your ring’s intricacy). Based on the current gold prices (as of August 2014), my estimate of a general ring resizing job would be around $50 – $75. For simple ring designs with plain shanks or uniform bands, resizing is fairly easily. However, ornate rings or rings that carry a certain design around the entire length of the band are harder to work with. This is because the ornate design might have to be remade completely due to a change in ring size.
The range of cost for a simple minor sizing up of a thin gold ring with no gemstones: $45 to $85. With its Three Rows of Inlaid Onyx, This Man’s Ring Will Cost More to Size Larger or Smaller. You could spend $200. There are many factors to take into account. So, for this blog I will cover the cost of sizing a ring larger, as well as some of the other variables that affect cost. Next week I’ll cover the costs of sizing a ring smaller.