• BDrip and BRrip are two recent additions to pirated movie formats. • BDrip is a movie ripped directly from a Blu-ray disc. • BRrip is encoded from a Blu-ray release, which is in itself a ripped version. Thus, BRrip is a compressed version of an already ripped Blu-ray disc. However, what movie lovers fail to understand is that both BDrip and BRrip are essentially the same. This is because a Bluray disc is the source in case of BDrip, but encoding of BRrip is done through a pre release, which is a 1080p BDrip in itself.
Best Answer: No difference-BRRip means Blu Ray disk Rip - BDRip means Blu ray Disk Rip so it's just a naming confusion. The normal designation of a Blu Ray format disk is BD, so BDRip is the more correct term (assuming that ripping off someone else's work aspires to a correct terminology, of course :p). • BDrip is a movie ripped directly from a Blu-ray disc • BRrip is encoded from a Blu-ray release, which is in itself a ripped version. Thus, BRrip is a compressed version of an already ripped Blu-ray disc.
BDRip stands for BluRay Disk Rip. BDRips are encoded directly from the BluRay disk. As the “ rip ” part of the name applies, the copy is generally not a 1:1 copy, but instead is usually re-encoded. 
Similar to DVD-Rip, only the source is a Blu-ray Disc. A BD/BRRip in DVD-Rip size often looks better than a same-size DVD rip because encoders have better source material. A common misconception among downloaders is that BDRip and BRRip are the same thing. They differ in that a BDRip comes directly from the Blu-ray source, while a BRRip is encoded from a pre-release, usually from a 1080p BDRip from another group. The first release of a movie is usually of a lower quality (due to a lack of sources), and is eventually replaced with higher-quality releases as better sources become available.
BDRip. A BDRip is a multimedia file that contains content that was sourced from a Blu-ray Disc product. As the rip part of the name applies, the copy is generally not a 1:1 copy, but instead is usually re-encoded. Most of the time Blu-ray disc rips (BDRips) contain AVC video that has a lower bitrate to the original content.
”BDRip” is a shortened term for Blu-Ray Disk Rip. This is a multimedia system data file which contains video content that has been acquired out of a Blu-ray Disc system. To define BRRip also originated from BluRay Disc Rip, however the difference is BRRip rips the content from a BluRay Release. Because BRRips are obtained from any release which has previously been cut out of a Blu-Ray disk, it therefore indicates it is not from taken from the main source.
BDRip. A BDRip is a multimedia file that contains content that was sourced from a Blu-ray Disc product. As the rip part of the name applies, the copy is generally not a 1:1 copy, but instead is usually re-encoded. Most of the time Blu-ray disc rips (BDRips) contain AVC video that has a lower bitrate to the original content. 2. BDRip. A multimedia file that contains content sourced from a Blu-ray movie disc. To make a BDRip, you need to copy the main movie of a blu-ray disc to your hard drive, and then re-encode it to reduce size.
• BDrip and BRrip are two recent additions to pirated movie formats. • BDrip is a movie ripped directly from a Blu-ray disc. • BRrip is encoded from a Blu-ray release, which is in itself a ripped version. Thus, BRrip is a compressed version of an already ripped Blu-ray disc. 
BDrip vs BRrip. Wherever you see the word rip, you can rest assured that the topic is around pirated movies as there are many versions of pirated movies, all having rip as a suffix in them. Some examples are Cam rip, PPV rip, DVD rip, TV rip, and more recently BDrip and BRrip. However, what movie lovers fail to understand is that both BDrip and BRrip are essentially the same. This is because a Bluray disc is the source in case of BDrip, but encoding of BRrip is done through a pre release, which is a 1080p BDrip in itself.