A tropical rainforest is a biome type that occurs roughly within the latitudes 28 degrees north or south of the equator (in the equatorial zone between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn). Most tropical rainforests are located around and near the equator, therefore having what is called an equatorial climate characterized by three major climatic parameters: temperature, rainfall, and dry season intensity.
Tropical rain forests are located closer to the equator then temperate rainforests (Rainforest Biome, par. 5). The Amazon hosts the world’s largest tropical rainforest. Twenty percent of plants and birds on Earth, and ten percent of mammal species can be discovered in the Amazon. 
F.A.O. Plants Animals Climate Southeast Asian Rainforests The tropical rain forest is a forest of tall trees in a region of year-round warmth. An average of 50 to 260 inches (125 to 660 cm.) of rain falls yearly. Rain forests belong to the tropical wet climate group. 
Interviews. Rainforests are found in the tropics, the region between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, just above and below the Equator. In this tropic zone the sun is very strong and shines about the same amount of time every day all year long, keeping the climate warm and relatively stable. 
Tropical rainforests are located near the equator. Fifty seven percent of all tropical rainforests are found in Latin America. One third of the world's tropical rainforests are in Brazil. Other tropical rainforests are located in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands (25% of the world's tropical rainforests) and West Africa (18%). Temperate rainforests are found along some coasts in temperate zones. The largest temperate rainforests are found on the Pacific coast of North America. 
LOCATION: There are two types of rainforest biomes: temperate and tropical rainforests. Temperate rainforests are found along coasts in temperate regions. The largest temperate rainforests are on the Pacific coast in North America, stretching from Alaska to Oregon. Other temperate rainforests are found along the coast of Chile, the United Kingdom, Norway, Japan, New Zealand, and S. Australia. Tropical rainforests can be found around the world: In Central and South America; in Western Africa, eastern Madagascar, and the Zaire basin; and in Indo-Malaysia along the west coast of India, Assam, Southeast Asia, New Guinea, and Queensland,
The Amazon Rainforest is located in the upper section of Brazil south of the Equator. The Amazon River is located 2 to 4 degrees south of the Equator. The Amazon is located in South America. In Brazil is 60% of the land and the rest covers part of Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, Venezuela.
Other tropical rainforests are located in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands (25% of the world's tropical rainforests) and West Africa (18%).  Temperate rainforests are found along some coasts in temperate zones. The largest temperate rainforests are found on the Pacific coast of North America. The Amazon is located in South America. In Brazil is 60% of the land and the rest covers part of Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, Venezuela.
LOCATION: Most temperate, deciduous (leaf-shedding) forests are located in the eastern United States, Canada, Europe, China, Japan, and parts of Russia. Deciduous forests are broken up into five zones. The firstzone is the tree stratum zone. 
The Tropical Rain forest biome is located in Central and South America, Southeast Asia, Africa and Australia. It is found in most equatorial areas. We are specifically looking at the Tropical Rain Forest of the Amazon in South America. Back to the top. 