Vermicomposting-Worm Composting. Vermicomposting is the process of taking organic waste and turning it into high quality compost using worms. It’s a fantastic way to to take your household kitchen waste and change into something fantastic for your garden.
Vermicomposting, or worm composting, is different than traditional composting. Worm composting is a process that uses red earthworms, also commonly called redworms, to consume organic waste, producing castings (an odor-free compost product for use as mulch), soil conditioner, and topsoil additive.
Vermicomposting is the breaking down of organic material through the use of worms, bacteria, and fungi. In nature, organic matter is decomposed through these organisms. By managing vermicomposting you are essentially speeding up mother nature's process of breaking down organic matter. The end product of vermicomposting is a substance called vermicompost or worm castings. This is a nutrient rich organic substance that can be added to soil to increase it's organic matter content and available nutrients. A common way to use this process is to build worm bins; basically boxes that contain wor
Save. Vermicomposting, or vermiculture, enlists a small army of worms to turn organic plant wastes (food parings, rinds, peels and lawn clippings, for instance) into rich plant food, known as worm castings.. The practice is well known to home gardeners but is also done on the industrial and civic scale. One benefit of vermicomposting is the obvious benefit of keeping decaying wastes out of the landfills. In addition, passage through the worms' digestive tracts changes the very makeup of the material, changing those nutrients into a form that is much more bio-available to the plants it's applied to.
Vermicompost is compost that has been digested by worms (vermi). Vermicompost does not need to be turned, because worms turn the organic matter in their digestive tract, eliminating work for gardeners. Like compost, vermicompost is used to improve soil structure and provide nutrients for plant growth. 
Vermicomposting is the process of using red wiggler or brown-nosed worms and microorganisms to convert food scraps into dark, earthy smelling, nutrient-rich humus. The bin is filled with moist “bedding,” such as shredded newspaper, to provide a dark, damp environment that worms desire. Red wiggler or brown-nosed worms (not night crawlers or earth worms) are added and food scraps are buried in the bedding.
Rotary screen harvested vermicompost, composed of worm castings. Vermicompost is the product or process of composting using various worms, usually red wigglers, white worms, and other earthworms to create a heterogeneous mixture of decomposing vegetable or food waste, bedding materials, and vermicast. Small-scale vermicomposting is well-suited to turn kitchen waste into high-quality soil amendments, where space is limited. Worms can decompose organic matter without the additional human physical effort (turning the bin) that bin composting requires.
What is vermicomposting? Why use worms? Known also as worm compost, vermicast, worm castings, worm humus or worm manure, vermicompost is similar to plain compost, except that it uses worms in addition to microbes and bacteria to turn organic waste into a nutrient-rich fertilizer.
Vermicomposting-Worm Composting. Vermicomposting is the process of taking organic waste and turning it into high quality compost using worms. It’s a fantastic way to to take your household kitchen waste and change into something fantastic for your garden. Vermicomposting is the process of taking organic waste and turning it into high quality compost using worms