These include the enzymes required for the citric acid cycle, the proteins involved in DNA replication and transcription, and ribosomal proteins. The protein complexes of the respiratory chain are a mixture of proteins encoded by mitochondrial genes and proteins encoded by nuclear genes.
Mitochondria are enclosed by a double-membrane system made up of an inner and an outer membrane. The space between these two membranes is called (surprise!) the intermembrane space. The inner membrane encloses the interior of the mitochondrion, which is known as the mitochondrial matrix.
Mitochondria Mitochondria are rod-shaped organelles that can be considered the power generators of the cell, converting oxygen and nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the chemical energy currency of the cell that powers the cell's metabolic activities.
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division.
A secondary function of mitochondria is to synthesize proteins for their own use. They work independently, and execute the transcription of DNA to RNA, and translation of RNA to amino acids (the building blocks of protein), without using any components of the cell.
The inner membrane is also loaded with proteins involved in electron transport and ATP synthesis. This membrane surrounds the mitochondrial matrix, where the citric acid cycle produces the electrons that travel from one protein complex to the next in the inner membrane.
Mitochondria produce energy through the process of cellular respiration. Respiration is another word for breathing. The mitochondria take food molecules in the form of carbohydrates and combine them with oxygen to produce the ATP. They use proteins called enzymes to produce the correct chemical reaction.
The import of mitochondrial proteins synthesized in the cytoplasm, and their direction to the correct soluble compartments, correct membranes, and correct membrane surfaces/topologies, involves multiple pathways and macromolecular machines.
1 Different mitochondria produce different proteins. 2  Some mitochondria can produce hundreds of different proteins used for various functions. 3  In addition to energy in the form of ATP, they also produce small amounts of carbon dioxide.