1 Sea Turtle Species There are 7 distinct sea turtle species that have been identified in the world. 2  Green Sea Turtle. 3  The Green Sea Turtle is a fairly large species with a length of about five and a half feet and weighing up to 400 pounds. 4  Leatherback Sea Turtle. 
There are many different species of tortoise around the world that vary in size, colour and diet. Most species of tortoise however are diurnal but in places where it is very hot throughout the day, tortoises will often venture out to find food in the cooler dawn and dusk periods. Pet tortoises should have a diet similar to what it would be if the tortoise was in the wild and should not be fed other foods such as cat or dog food. Most species of tortoise, but not all, hibernate during the colder winter months particularly those species of tortoise in the Northern Hemisphere.
Most species of tortoise have a herbivorous diet eating grasses, weeds, flowers, leafy greens and fruits.Tortoises generally have a lifespan similar to the lifespan of humans although some species of tortoise, like the giant tortoise, have known to be over 150 years old. Pet tortoises should have a diet similar to what it would be if the tortoise was in the wild and should not be fed other foods such as cat or dog food. Most species of tortoise, but not all, hibernate during the colder winter months particularly those species of tortoise in the Northern Hemisphere.
There are seven species of sea turtles, which are marine reptiles that need to breathe air to survive. Six of the seven species are found in US waters, and the flatback turtle is only found in the Western Indo-Pacific. Most of their lives are spent at sea, with some species diving to depths of 3000 feet (900 meters). 
Today, a number of tortoise species (mainly the smaller species of tortoise) are kept as household pets. The pet tortoise ideally prefers to live in the garden or part of a vegetable patch where there is lots of food for the tortoise to eat. Pet tortoises should have a diet similar to what it would be if the tortoise was in the wild and should not be fed other foods such as cat or dog food. Most species of tortoise, but not all, hibernate during the colder winter months particularly those species of tortoise in the Northern Hemisphere.
Of this ~300 there are –. 7 species of sea turtle (and some scientists argue that green turtles should actually be 2 species which would make 8). There are around 10-15 land tortoises. These are species that primarily live on land. They includes the 2 species of giant tortoise – the Galapagas tortoise and the Aldabra land tortoise.
Answers: A total of seven species of sea turtles and about 257 species of freshwater turtles and tortoises have been described. Out of the seven species of sea turtles in the world, 4 species come to nest on beaches in Malaysia. And out of the 257 species of freshwater turtles and tortoises in the world, 100 species are native to Asia and 18 have been recorded in Malaysia. The four species of sea turtles that nest on the beaches in Malaysia are: 1  Leatherback turtle (Dermochelys coriacea). 2  Green turtle (Chelonia mydas). 
How Many Turtle Species Are There? Currently, 328 species of turtles are known worldwide; 57 (20% of the world's turtle species) are found in the United States and Canada. The United States has more native turtle species than any other country -- it is a turtle biodiversity hotspot. Twelve turtle species (including 4 sea turtles) occur in Connecticut.
50 species that live in north America and by Mexico but their are 211 species of turtles in the worls and a tortoise ia just a tutle that lives on land!:). There are about 370,000 described species of beetle in the world. Many others have been recognised as new but have not yet been described and it is estimated that at least t … he same number are still awaiting discovery. + 14 others found this useful.
Although many turtles spend most of their lives in the water, all turtles and tortoises breathe air. Sea turtles and other aquatic turtle still must surface at regular intervals to refill their lungs. Most tortoise species spend most, if not all, their lives on dry land. 