In the mouth, stomach, and small intestine, the mucosa contains tiny glands that produce juices to help digest food. The digestive tract also contains a layer of smooth muscle that helps break down food and move it along the tract. The digestive system is made up of the digestive tract—a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus—and other organs that help the body break down and absorb food. Peristalsis looks like an ocean wave traveling through the muscle.
The salivary glands secretes saliva that aids in chewing and starts the digestion process. This part of digestion is took place in your mouth. Saliva glands are located in the … mouth providing the first ingested digestive chemical breakdown. Saliva also lubricates ingestion to aid in mastication. The second thing that salivary glands help with is starch digestion. The salivary glands also secrete amylase, which is an enzyme to break down starch molecules. Starch molecules (commonly found in carbohydrates) are big, and in order for smooth digestion, they need to be in smaller pieces when swallowed.
You may not think of it this way, but digestion begins in your mouth. Chewing your food thoroughly breaks it into smaller pieces, making more of its surface area accessible to digestive juices. Saliva is an integral part of that digestive process, supplying enzymes that dismantle starches and fats.
The normal function of the pancreas is discussed here for non-doctors. The pancreas is a digestive gland, similar to the salivary gland in the mouth. If you were to take a bite of a sour lemon, the salivary gland would squirt juice into the mouth to balance the acid in lemon juice. 
In the human digestive system, the main sites of digestion are the oral cavity, the stomach, and the small intestine. Digestive enzymes are secreted by different exocrine glands including: 1  Salivary glands. 2  Secretory cells in the stomach. 3  Secretory cells in the pancreas. 4  Secretory glands in the small intestine. There are two types of salivary glands: 1  serous glands: These glands produce a secretion rich in water, electrolytes, and enzymes. 2  Mixed glands: These glands have both serous cells and mucous cells, and include sublingual and submandibular glands.
Salivary Amylase. Amylase, an enzyme that turns complex starches into simple sugars, is the most prevalent digestive juice in saliva. Your pancreas also produces amylase, but starch digestion begins in the mouth with salivary amylase. When you bite into a piece of bread, the serous component of saliva carries the salivary amylase into the food's porous structure as you chew. Chewing your food thoroughly breaks it into smaller pieces, making more of its surface area accessible to digestive juices. Saliva is an integral part of that digestive process, supplying enzymes that dismantle starches and fats.
The digestive juices are the secretions of the digestive tract that break down food. They include saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic juice, bile, and intestinal juice. The digestive juices are secreted by different organs, vary widely in chemical composition, and play different roles in the digestive process. Digestive juices break down food in the digestive tract. Saliva, gastric juice and bile are all digestive juices. Several abdominal organs, including the pancreas, which secretes digestive juices. A diagram of the digestive system
The salivary glands located in the mouth produce saliva which helps in this mechanical breaking down and digestion. Saliva is made up of mucus, electrolyte, water and some digestive enzymes like amylase that are good in digesting starch and sugar. In the stomach, gastric juices are produced that are colorless and are highly acidic in nature. These are produced by the gastric glands present inside the stomach. The digestive tract system comprise of esophagus, mouth, stomach, small intestine and large intestine or colon, rectum and anus. A lining called as mucosa is present inside these hollow organs. The mucosa of mouth, small intestine and stomach contain tiny glands that generate digestive juices for foo
Mouth and Salivary Glands. Digestion begins in the mouth, where chemical and mechanical digestion occurs. Saliva or spit, produced by the salivary glands (located under the tongue and near the lower jaw), is released into the mouth. Saliva begins to break down the food, moistening it and making it easier to swallow. A digestive enzyme (amylase) in the saliva begins to break down the carbohydrates (starches and sugars). 