Epidemiologic Reviews, 20(1): 71-80. Data collection is the process of gathering and measuring information on variables of interest, in an established systematic fashion that enables one to answer stated research questions, test hypotheses, and evaluate outcomes. 
There are multiple methods and tools that can be used to collect data, but you must decide which method(s) will best answer your research questions. In this section, you will learn what should be considered when determining how you will collect data. You will also learn about several data collection methods and tools. 
The data collection component of research is common to all fields of study including physical and social sciences, humanities and business. While methods vary by discipline, the emphasis on ensuring accurate and honest collection remains the same. The goal for all data collection is to capture quality evidence that then translates to rich data analysis and allows the building of a convincing and credible answer to questions that have been posed.
IBM Cognos. MicroStrategy. vs. SAP Business Objects. Data collection is a systematic approach to gathering information from a variety of sources to get a complete and accurate picture of an area of interest. Download 9 FREE Strategic Planning Templates that your Peers Already Use. In a server consolidation project, data collection would include not just a physical inventory of all servers but also an exact description of what is installed on each server -- the operating system, middleware, and the application or database that the server supports. This was first published in November 2013.
Data Collection Methods. The purpose of this page is to describe important data collection methods used in Research .. Data Collection is an important aspect of any type of research study. Inaccurate data collection can impact the results of a study and ultimately lead to invalid results. Data collection methods for impact evaluation vary along a continuum. 
1 You can collect the data and then send it off to someone – a university program, a friendly statistician or researcher, or someone you hire – to process it for you. 2  You can collect and rely largely on qualitative data. 3  Whether this is an option depends to a large extent on what your program is about. 
You would want to collect data so that you could see the results of the … experiment. Why you want to collect data is so that you can see your results of whatever you are doing, whether it is an experiment or an inquiry. 2 people found this useful. Karin L. 270,023 Contributions. There's more to farming than dirt, cows, and a pair of bib overalls.
Data collection. Data collection is defined as the ongoing systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of health data necessary for designing, implementing, and evaluating public health prevention programs. To develop effective prevention strategies, countries need to improve their information. 