Many of the world's active volcanoes are located around the edges of the Pacific Ocean: the West Coast of the Americas; the East Coast of Siberia, Japan, the Philippines, and Indonesia; and in island chains from New Guinea to New Zealand--the so-called Ring of Fire. Volcanoes are located throughout most of the world. The most active volcanoes are found on the so-called ring of fire in Pacific Ocean. Indonesia has several volcanoes inclu … ding Krakatoa.
Many of the world's active volcanoes are located around the edges of the Pacific Ocean: the West Coast of the Americas; the East Coast of Siberia, Japan, the Philippines, and Indonesia; and in island chains from New Guinea to New Zealand--the so-called Ring of Fire (diagram to left). Or even more exciting, would you see an erupting volcano? Probably not, because most volcanoes, especially active ones, occur in only a few well-defined narrow bands across the face of Earth--something like wild animals confined to reservations. Actually, at most locations on Earth, you would only see a lot of sea water (but that's another story!
Volcanoes are located throughout most of the world. Volcanoes are  generally located near tectonic plates that are converging or  diverging. The most active volcanoes are fo … und on the so-called  ring of fire in Pacific Ocean. Indonesia has several volcanoes  including Krakatoa. Volcanoes are located throughout most of the world. The most active volcanoes are found on the so-called ring of fire in Pacific Ocean. Indonesia has several volcanoes inclu … ding Krakatoa.
Volcanoes are located throughout most of the world. The most active volcanoes are found on the so-called ring of fire in Pacific Ocean. Indonesia has several volcanoes inclu … ding Krakatoa. Hawaii's Kilauea produces the most lava of all active volcanoes in the world. North America has Mt. St. Helens and Mt. Rainier in Washington, USA. Mexico has several including Paricutin parícutin And nevado De. Toluca europe Has. Mt. etna
Map showing Earth's plate boundaries. Active volcanoes generally occur close to the major tectonic plate boundaries. Many are located along the Earth's plate boundaries. Active volcanoes are rare in Australia because there are no plate boundaries on this continent. However, there are two active volcanoes located 4000 kilometres south west of Perth on the Australian territories, Heard Island and the nearby McDonald Islands. 
Some of the most conspicuous and beautiful mountains in the world are composite volcanoes, including Mount Fuji in Japan, Mount Cotopaxi in Ecuador, Mount Shasta in California, Mount Hood in Oregon, and Mount St. Helen and Mount Rainier in Washington. Volcanoes are located throughout most of the world. The most active volcanoes are found on the so-called ring of fire in Pacific Ocean. Indonesia has several volcanoes inclu … ding Krakatoa.
Most of the Earth's volcanoes are located around the Pacific Ring of Fire because that the location of most of the Earth's subduction zones. A subduction zone is a place where one plate of oceanic lithosphere (= the crust + uppermost mantle) is shoved under another plate. Many of the world's active volcanoes are located around the edges of the Pacific Ocean (so called the Ring of Fire): the west coast of the Americas, the east coast of Siberia, Japan, the Philippines, Indonesia, and in island chains from New Guinea to New Zealand.