Plywood. Plywood is also an engineered wood product that is made by pressing and binding sheets of wood veneer together into one solid piece. Plywood comes not only in different thicknesses, but also in different grades, so you can choose the right one for your project. 1 MDF is basically glorified particle board. 2  Just like particle board, MDF will soak up water and other liquids like a sponge and swell unless it’s very well sealed on all sides and edges with primer, paint, or another sealing product.
Medium-density fiberboard (MDF) is an engineered wood product formed from wood fibers obtained from breaking down hardwood and softwood with a defibrator. The wood fibers are then glued together using wax and resin adhesive. 1 Plywood is more expensive than MDF. 2  It is difficult to create smooth cuts and edges with plywood when compared to MDF. 3  Though plywood is more water resistant than MDF, it is still porous and susceptible to damage when exposed to water over time. 4  Most plywood emits urea-formaldehyde, just as MDF does
edit Strength and Durability. MDF is not as hard as plywood and can be damaged easily when roughly handled. It is not as stiff as plywood and can sag with if too much weight is applied to it. For example, when MDF is used for shelving, it is important to reinforce the shelves to prevent sagging. 1 Plywood is more expensive than MDF. 2  It is difficult to create smooth cuts and edges with plywood when compared to MDF. 3  Though plywood is more water resistant than MDF, it is still porous and susceptible to damage when exposed to water over time. 4  Most plywood emits urea-formaldehyde, just as MDF does
A sample of MDF. Medium-density fibreboard (MDF) is an engineered wood product made by breaking down hardwood or softwood residuals into wood fibres, often in a defibrator, combining it with wax and a resin binder, and forming panels by applying high temperature and pressure. MDF is generally denser than plywood. It is made up of separated fibres, but can be used as a building material similar in application to plywood. It is stronger and much denser than particle board. The name derives from the distinction in densities of fibreboard. Large-scale production of MDF began in the 1980s, in both North America and Europe.
Advantages of MDF. 1  MDF is generally cheaper than plywood. 2  The surface of MDF is very smooth which makes it great surface for painting. 3  MDF is very consistent throughout, so cut edges appear smooth and won’t have voids or splinters. 4  Because of the smooth edges, you can use a router to create decorative edges. Advantages of plywood. 1  Made from multiple layers of wood veneer, plywood is a very strong material to work with. 2  It won’t soak up water and liquids as quickly or easily as MDF does so it’s less susceptible to water damage.
1 MDF is generally cheaper than plywood. 2  The surface of MDF is very smooth which makes it great surface for painting. 3  MDF is very consistent throughout, so cut edges appear smooth and won’t have voids or splinters. 4  Because of the smooth edges, you can use a router to create decorative edges. Advantages of plywood. 1  Made from multiple layers of wood veneer, plywood is a very strong material to work with. 2  It won’t soak up water and liquids as quickly or easily as MDF does so it’s less susceptible to water damage.
Cabinet boxes are most commonly constructed from Plywood, MDF or Particleboard. Plywood is the strongest and most expensive followed by MDF and then Particle board with the least strength and lowest cost. It is generally agreed that particle board is not strong enough to hold up over time for kitchen cabinet boxes. 
1 MDF is generally cheaper than plywood. 2  The surface of MDF is very smooth, and you don’t have to worry about knots on the surface. 3  Because it’s so smooth, it’s a great surface for painting. 4  I recommend first priming with a quality oil-based primer. 1 MDF is basically glorified particle board. 2  Just like particle board, MDF will soak up water and other liquids like a sponge and swell unless it’s very well sealed on all sides and edges with primer, paint, or another sealing product.
Medium-density fiberboard (MDF) is generally cheaper than plywood, but it is not as hard and can sag under heavy weight. MDF doesn't handle moisture very well, either, so it is more suited for indoor use, such as in furniture. 1 Plywood is more expensive than MDF. 2  It is difficult to create smooth cuts and edges with plywood when compared to MDF. 3  Though plywood is more water resistant than MDF, it is still porous and susceptible to damage when exposed to water over time. 4  Most plywood emits urea-formaldehyde, just as MDF does