Trope Definition. Trope is a figure of speech through which speakers or writers intend to express meanings of words differently than their literal meanings. In other words, it is metaphorical or figurative use of words in which writers shift from the literal meanings of words to their non-literal meanings. The trope, in fact, could be a phrase, a word or an image used to create artistic effects. We may find its use almost everywhere such as in literature, political rhetoric and everyday speech.
trope. n. 1. A figure of speech using words in nonliteral ways, such as a metaphor. 2. A word or phrase interpolated as an embellishment in the sung parts of certain medieval liturgies. trope. n. 1. (Rhetoric) rhetoric a word or expression used in a figurative sense. 2. (Music, other) an interpolation of words or music into the plainsong settings of the Roman Catholic liturgy.
A literary trope is the use of figurative language – via word, phrase, or even an image – for artistic effect such as using a figure of speech. 1 Irony – creating a trope through implying the opposite of the standard meaning, such as describing a bad situation as good times. 2  Metaphor – an explanation of an object or idea through juxtaposition of disparate things with a similar characteristic, such as describing a courageous person as having a heart of a lion.
1 Trope as a Buzzword.  2 The new word-that-must-be-used is ' trope ,' meaning metaphor, example, literary device, picture--and maybe whatever else the writer wants it to mean.  3 The main meaning of 'trope' is 'figure of speech.' . . . 1 The new word-that-must-be-used is ' trope ,' meaning metaphor, example, literary device, picture--and maybe whatever else the writer wants it to mean.  2
trope. 1. a. any literary or rhetorical device, as metaphor, metonymy, synecdoche, and irony, that consists in the use of words in other than their literal sense. b. an instance of this. 2. a phrase, sentence, or verse formerly interpolated in a liturgical text to amplify or embellish. trope. n. 1. (Rhetoric) rhetoric a word or expression used in a figurative sense. 2. (Music, other) an interpolation of words or music into the plainsong settings of the Roman Catholic liturgy.
Full Definition of TROPE. 1. a: a word or expression used in a figurative sense: figure of speech. 2. : a phrase or verse added as an embellishment or interpolation to the sung parts of the Mass in the Middle Ages. See trope defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Learner's definition of TROPE. [count] technical. : a word, phrase, or image used in a new and different way in order to create an artistic effect. a literary trope. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. Comments & Questions. Comments & Questions
The word trope has also come to be used for describing commonly recurring literary and rhetorical devices, motifs or cliches clichés in creative. works 1 Irony – creating a trope through implying the opposite of the standard meaning, such as describing a bad situation as good times. 2  Metaphor – an explanation of an object or idea through juxtaposition of disparate things with a similar characteristic, such as describing a courageous person as having a heart of a lion.
Merriam-Webster gives a definition of trope as a figure of speech.. In storytelling, a trope is just that — a conceptual figure of speech, a storytelling shorthand for a concept that the audience will recognize and understand instantly. The word trope has shot to prominence in the last couple of decades... Merriam-Webster gives a definition of trope as a figure of speech.. In storytelling, a trope is just that — a conceptual figure of speech, a storytelling shorthand for a concept that the audience will recognize and understand instantly. share | improve this answer. edited Dec 18 '12 at 3:42.
Trope. You've seen this somewhere before. Merriam-Webster gives a definition of trope as a figure of speech.. In storytelling, a trope is just that — a conceptual figure of speech, a storytelling shorthand for a concept that the audience will recognize and understand instantly. Above all, a trope is a convention.