Part I of the treaty, as per all the treaties signed during the Paris Peace Conference, was the Covenant of the League of Nations, which provided for the creation of the League, an organization for the arbitration of international disputes. The treaty restored the provinces of Alsace-Lorraine to France by rescinding the treaties of Versailles and Frankfurt of 1871 as they pertained to this issue. The sovereignty of Schleswig-Holstein was to be resolved by a plebiscite to be held at a future time (see Schleswig Plebiscites).
It made  Germany very poor.    Here are the terms of the Treaty of Versailles:   Germany was to accept the blame for starting the war, under the  terms of 'War guilt' cause.  Germany was to reduce its army to 100,000 men.  Germany could only have 6 battleships in its navy. The Treaty of Versailles was a treaty attended by all victorious nations of the Great War (Except for Russia as they were in the middle of a civil war). It was to sort out wha … t would happen to Germany as they were blamed of starting the Great War.
The Versailles Treaty, signed on June 28, 1919, was the peace settlement between Germany and the Allied Powers that officially ended World War I. Post. Share. The details of the Versailles Treaty had been debated and finalized at the Paris Peace Conference, which opened on January 18, 1919 - just over two months after the fighting on the Western Front ended. Although many diplomats from the Allied Powers participated, Germany was not invited to the conference.
Henry Cabot Lodge. While the Treaty of Versailles did not satisfy all parties concerned, by the time President Woodrow Wilson returned to the United States in July 1919, U.S. public opinion overwhelmingly favored ratification of the Treaty, including the Covenant of the League of Nations. Treaty of Versailles. Negotiations at the Paris Peace Conference were complicated. The United Kingdom, France, and Italy fought together as the Allied Powers during the First World War. The United States, entered the war in April 1917 as an Associated Power.
The Treaty of Versailles was one of the peace treaties at the end  of World War I. It ended the war between Germany and the Allied  Powers. It was signed on June 28, 1919, e … xactly five years after  the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, one of the events  that triggered the start of the war. The Treaty of Versailles was a treaty attended by all victorious nations of the Great War (Except for Russia as they were in the middle of a civil war). It was to sort out wha … t would happen to Germany as they were blamed of starting the Great War.
Origins and history. The ILO was created in 1919, as part of the Treaty of Versailles that ended World War I, to reflect the belief that universal and lasting peace can be accomplished only if it is based on social justice. 
World War I officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on June 28, 1919. Negotiated among the Allied powers with little participation by Germany, its 15 parts and 440 articles reassigned German boundaries and assigned liability for reparations. 
League of Nations. International organization founded in 1919 to promote world peace and cooperation but greatly weakened by the refusal of the United States to join. It proved ineffectual in stopping aggression by Italy, Japan, and Germany in the 1930s.
The international organizations founded by the Treaty of Versailles are the League of Nations and the International Labour Organization. 
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. The treaty restored the provinces of Alsace-Lorraine to France by rescinding the treaties of Versailles and Frankfurt of 1871 as they pertained to this issue. The sovereignty of Schleswig-Holstein was to be resolved by a plebiscite to be held at a future time (see Schleswig Plebiscites).