Fats are large molecules that are composed of three fatty acid molecules bonded to a glycerol molecule. The fatty acid molecule is a long chain of covalently bonded carbon atoms with nonpolar bonds to hydrogen atoms all along the carbon chain with a carboxyl group attached to one end. However, the hydrogen-to-oxygen ratio is always greater than 2:1. More important for biological systems, the carbon-to-hydrogen bonds are nonpolar covalent, which means that lipids are fat soluble and will not dissolve in water. There are four biologically important lipids: 1  Fats. 2  Waxes.
Triglycerides. These are made up of 3 fatty acid chains attached to a glycerol molecule. Fatty acids are chains of carbon atoms, the terminal one having an OOH group attached making a carboxylic group (COOH). The length of the chain is usually between 14 and 22 carbons long (most commonly 16-18)
Lipids are one of the four major groups of organic molecules; the other three being proteins, nucleic acids (DNA), and carbohydrates (sugars). Lipids are made up of the same elements as carbohydrates: carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Lipids and Fats. 1  What are fats? 2  Fats are composed of a glycerol molecule and three fatty acid molecules. 3  Are all fats bad? 4  No, as a matter of fact, fats are needed by our bodies to be healthy. 5  Types of Fats. 6  There are two main types of fats: saturated fats and unsaturated fats. 7  Saturated Fats-Saturated fats are solids at room temperature. 8  Unsaturat
Fats. Fat molecule s are made up of four parts: a molecule of glycerol (on the right) and. three molecule s of fatty acids. Fats consist of a wide group of compound s that are generally soluble in organ ic solvents and largely insoluble in water. Chemically, fats are generally triesters of glycerol and fatty acids.
Lipids are made up of the elements carbon, hydrogen and oxygen but in different proportions to carbohydrates. The most common type of lipid is the triglyceride. Lipids can exist as fats, oils and waxes. Fats and oils are very similar in structure (triglycerides). These are made up of 3 fatty acid chains attached to a glycerol molecule. Fatty acids are chains of carbon atoms, the terminal one having an OOH group attached making a carboxylic group (COOH). The length of the chain is usually between 14 and 22 carbons long (most commonly 16-18
Fats are a subgroup of compounds known as lipids that are found in the body and have the general property of being hydrophobic (meaning they are insoluble in water). Fats are also known as triglycerides, molecules made from the combination of one molecule of glycerol with three fatty acids, as depicted below: There are an estimated 100,000 different proteins in the human body alone, and each of them is made up of a combination of different combinations of only 20 amino acids. Each protein has a different structure and performs a different function in the body.
Lipids are large molecules made from smaller units of fatty acids and glycerol. The structure of a lipid molecule. In the diagram, you can see how three long chains of carbon atoms are attached to a glycerol molecule, with its three carbon atoms. 1 They are esters made from fatty acids and glycerol. 2  lipid Fat or oils composed of fatty acids and glycerol. 3  metabolism All the chemical reactions in the cells of an organism, including respiration. 4  molecule A collection of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds.
Proteins, one of the major nutrients required by our bodies, are large molecules made up of hundreds, even thousands, of amino acids combined in different ways. Fat is another essential nutrient, providing a reserve supply of energy, insulation and protection for the body, and structure for cells. There are an estimated 100,000 different proteins in the human body alone, and each of them is made up of a combination of different combinations of only 20 amino acids. Each protein has a different structure and performs a different function in the body.