Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection that begins in the lungs. TB is spread through the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes, spreading the bacteria in aerosol droplets. When you are exposed to TB, the bacteria can be destroyed by your immune system and you will not be infected. People with dormant TB are apt to develop the infection even years after having dormant TB. There are many triggers that can cause dormant TB to become active and start multiplying. It is likely to be caused by a weakening of your immune system. This occurs naturally with age.
Bronchitis is an infection of the main airways of the lungs (bronchi), causing them to become irritated and inflamed. The main symptom is a cough, which may bring up yellow-grey mucus (phlegm). Bronchitis may also cause a sore throat and wheezing. Read more about the symptoms of bronchitis. Most cases of acute bronchitis develop when an infection causes the bronchi to become irritated and inflamed, which causes them to produce more mucus than usual. Your body tries to shift this extra mucus through coughing. Smoking is the most common cause of chronic
1 Cough and difficulty breathing are less common. 2  Generally, return of dormant tuberculosis infection occurs in the upper lungs. 3  Symptoms include. 4  common cough with a progressive increase in production of mucus and. 5  coughing up blood. 1 Generally, return of dormant tuberculosis infection occurs in the upper lungs. 2  Symptoms include. 3  common cough with a progressive increase in production of mucus and. 4  coughing up blood. 5  Other symptoms include the following: 6  fever, 7  loss of appetite, 8  weight loss, and. 9  night sweats
Bronchitis and Pneumonia. Illnesses of the lungs caused by bacteria or viral invasions cause excessive sputum and trigger airway narrowing. A wheezing cough is a common symptom in acute cases of bronchitis and pneumonia. According to the American Lung Association, 23 million Americans suffer from asthma. A wheezing cough is the product of the narrowing of the trachea during an asthmatic spasm. In children and young adults, the wheezing cough can lie dormant, then be stimulated by exercise, poor air quality or illness.
Anyone can get cough-variant asthma at any time, but it is common in young kids with childhood asthma. Cough-variant asthma may lead to the development of classic asthma, with symptoms that include shortness of breath and wheezing. If you have nighttime asthma, it can interrupt sleep. People with cough-variant asthma often notice that coughing increases with exercise, called exercise-induced asthma. Coughing may increase when they are exposed to asthma triggers or allergy-causing substances like dust or strong fragrances, or when they are in cold air
Cough-variant asthma is a type of asthma in which the main symptom is a dry, non-productive cough. (A non-productive cough does not expel any mucus from the respiratory tract.) People with cough-variant asthma often have no other classic asthma symptoms, such as wheezing or shortness of breath. If you have nighttime asthma, it can interrupt sleep. People with cough-variant asthma often notice that coughing increases with exercise, called exercise-induced asthma. Coughing may increase when they are exposed to asthma triggers or allergy-causing substances like dust or strong fragrances, or when they are in cold air
Asthma is a disease that affects your lungs. It is one of the most common long-term diseases of children, but adults can have asthma, too. Asthma causes wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness, and coughing at night or early in the morning. If you have asthma, you have it all the time, but you will have asthma attacks only when something bothers your lungs. In most cases, we don’t know what causes asthma, and we don’t know how to cure it.