An average normal range for white blood cells is between 4,500 and 10,000 mcl. Abnormal test results are classified by numbers that are higher or lower than this range. It’s important to note that age can also affect the number of white blood cells, with infants having a higher count than adults. White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes, are an important part of the immune system. These cells help fight infections by attacking bacteria, viruses, and germs that invade the body. White blood cells originate in the bone marrow, but circulate throughout the bloodstream.
– by admin 0. Having a white blood cell count normal range is crucial in maintaining the body’s defense against detrimental, foreign invaders. Sponsored link. White blood cells (WBC) are formed elements found in the blood which protect the body against infection. White blood cells are also known as leukocytes. It would show whether the person is within the white blood cell count normal range or not. So, the CBC is the test that can detect any deviations from the white blood cell count normal range. The white blood cell count normal range is between 5000 and 10,000 mm³.
The white blood cell count is part of a complete blood count (CBC), one of the most common blood tests. Automated cell counting machines count the number of cells present in a blood sample. Different laboratories use different cell counting machines, and each lab may have slightly different values for the normal range. A low white blood cell count (leukopenia) is less common. Certain medications, infections, inflammatory and autoimmune conditions, heavy alcohol use, and problems in the bone marrow can cause a low white blood cell count.
The number of white blood cells in a volume of blood. Normal range varies slightly between laboratories but is generally between 4,300 and 10,800 … cells per cubic millimeter (cmm). This can also be referred to as the leukocyte count and can be expressed in international units as 4.3 - 10.8 x 109 cells per liter. 
When the result is lower than white blood cell count normal range, the person is considered to have Leukopenia. Leukopenia occurs when the patient has an ongoing disease that requires medication that can lower the white blood cell count, such as steroids. It would show whether the person is within the white blood cell count normal range or not. So, the CBC is the test that can detect any deviations from the white blood cell count normal range. The white blood cell count normal range is between 5000 and 10,000 mm³.
White blood cell count. A low white blood cell count (leukopenia) may be caused by a medical condition, such as an autoimmune disorder that destroys white blood cells, bone marrow problems or cancer. Certain medications also can cause white blood cell counts to drop. If your white blood cell count is higher than normal, you may have an infection or inflammation. Or, it could indicate that you have an immune system disorder or a bone marrow disease. A high white blood cell count can also be a reaction to medication. 1  Platelet count
White blood cell count (WBC). The number of white blood cells in a volume of blood. Normal range varies slightly between laboratories but is generally between 4,300 and 10,800 cells per cubic millimeter (cmm). This can also be referred to as the leukocyte count and can be expressed in international units as 4.3 - 10.8 x 109 cells per liter. What is a normal white blood cell count in an adult? There are normally between 4×109 and 1.1×1010 white blood cells in a litre of blood, making up approximately 1% of blood in a healthy adult.
White Blood Cell count is otherwise known as leukocyte count or white count. This information reveals the number of WBCs per volume of blood. This count is usually measured in microliters. The normal range of a WBC is usually bordering from 4,300 to 10,800 cells per cubic millimeter or cmm. Some diagnostics usually round this off to 5.0 to 10.0 x 109 cells per liter. WBC counts are ordered or prescribed by the physician to be able to determine the present health condition of the body. High WBC count or leukocytosis is an indicator of infection, inflammation and even allergy.
A WBC count is a test that measures the number of white blood cells in your body. This test is often included with a complete blood count (CBC). Your blood contains a percentage of each type of white blood cell. Sometimes, however, your white blood cell count can fall or rise out of the healthy range. White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes, are an important part of the immune system. These cells help fight infections by attacking bacteria, viruses, and germs that invade the body. White blood cells originate in the bone marrow, but circulate throughout the bloodstream.
A high white blood cell count (leukocytosis) is most often due to an infection, but can occur during many different illnesses. Certain medications, such as oral corticosteroids, also increase the white blood cell count. A low white blood cell count (leukopenia) is less common. Certain medications, infections, inflammatory and autoimmune conditions, heavy alcohol use, and problems in the bone marrow can cause a low white blood cell count.