The age for a baby to start walking is between 10-12 months old but every baby is different. They will walk when they are ready don't try and make them walk before hand as it could be bad for child. debbie_dixon19 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: Yeah right!! I'd love to c a 6 month old baby walk too!! Average age is 12months but btwn 9 and 15 months is usual. Unless, like some1 said, the baby was premature then you work it out on the age they would have been if they were born on their due date.
Going barefoot helps improve balance and coordination. What to do if your baby doesn’t walk. Don't fret if your child is simply taking her time. But if your child doesn't stand with support at 12 months, can't walk at 18 months, or isn't able to walk steadily at the age of 2 years, bring it up with her doctor. Don't worry if your child takes a little longer, though. Some perfectly normal children don't walk until they're 16 or 17 months old. During her first year, your baby is busy developing coordination and muscle strength in every part of her body.
Most babies take their first steps sometime between 9 and 12 months and are walking well by the time they're 14 or 15 months old. Don't worry if your child takes a little longer, though. Some perfectly normal children don't walk until they're 16 or 17 months old. During her first year, your baby is busy developing coordination and muscle strength in every part of her body. She'll learn to sit, roll over, and crawl before moving on to pulling up and standing at about 9 months
These typical ages are just a guideline. Some children walk at eight months, while others may not walk until they're 18 months. See ways to encourage your baby to walk in our milestones article. If you're concerned about your child's walking progress, speak to your health visitor. Ask for help if ... your toddler isn't walking by 14 months or 15 months, you could mention it to your health visitor or doctor if you have concerns. But be reassured that it's still well within the normal range of development.
‘The reassuring message is that the age at which children walk varies and there is no proven link between walking later and lower intelligence or poor co-ordination later in life.’. He said parents should only check with a doctor if their child has not started walking by the time they are 18 months old. Why you shouldn't worry about when your baby starts to walk. 1  An infant walking at nine months is unlikely to be more advanced later in life. 2  Conclude there is little link between early milestones and later development. 3  Parents should only go to a doctor if they haven't walked by 18 months.
At 13 months, your baby may be walking on his own, but probably a bit unsteadily. If your baby still hasn't stopped cruising, it just means walking on his own is going to take a little longer. Some children don't walk until they are 17 months or 18 months old. Most babies take their first steps by their first birthday. By the time they're 15 months old, most toddlers are walking unaided, though often with uneven steps (Harding 2014, Sheridan 2008) . Try not to worry if your baby takes a little longer. Some children don't walk until they are 17 months or 18 months old (NHS 2013a) . Babies who bottom-shuffle tend to walk later than babies who crawl (Sheridan 2008) 
Most babies take their first steps around their first birthday, but the age range varies from 9 to 18 months. Don't worry if your baby takes a few detours along the way. Some kids never crawl—they go straight from standing to walking—and that's perfectly normal. 
Some babies walk at 9 mos. or earlier, but most walk between 12-15 months. If your baby is not walking at 15 months, talk to your pediatrician or family doctor. Older siblings tend to start walking later than younger ones. Some children walk as young as 8 months and others wait until about 14 months. Anywhere from 9 months to as late as 2 yrs. If you are over 2.5 years then I would seek professional help.
By 11 months your baby will probably be able to stand without support, stoop, and squat. By 12 months he may walk while gripping your hand, though he may not take his first steps alone for a little while longer (Harding 2014, Sheridan 2008) . Most babies take their first steps by their first birthday. By the time they're 15 months old, most toddlers are walking unaided, though often with uneven steps (Harding 2014, Sheridan 2008) . Try not to worry if your baby takes a little longer. Some children don't walk until they are 17 months or 18 months old (NHS 2013a) . Babies who bottom-shuffle tend to walk later than babies who crawl (