1 Cheap flights to Manchester from Belfast. 2  Flights from Birmingham to Manchester. 3  Bournemouth to Manchester. 4  Flights Bristol to Manchester. 5  Cheap Cardiff to Manchester flights. 6  Edinburgh to Manchester flights. 7  Exeter to Manchester flights. 8  Glasgow to Manchester. Popular routes to Manchester. 1  Manchester from Dublin. 2  Aberdeen to Manchester flights. 3  Cheap flights to Manchester from Belfast. 4  Flights from Birmingham to Manchester. 5  Bournemouth to Manchester. 6  Flights Bristol to Manchester. 7  Cheap Cardiff to Manchester flights. 8
For a time, around eight years ago, Jet2 flew between Manchester and Gatwick in competition with BA, with fares starting at £15 each way, but unsurprisingly, it soon pulled the route as it was unprofitable. To make the whole journey by train, the fast way (3h 30m) is taking a Virgin Train to Euston, the Victoria Line to Victoria and the Gatwick Express to the airport. To minimise faff, an easier but longer option is CrossCountry from Manchester to Reading, with an easy connection to First Great Western to Gatwick.
With frequent flights to Manchester Airport (MAN) from London Heathrow (LHR), you can arrive at a time that suits you. 
Manchester to Gatwick. Multiple companies offer flights from Manchester to London Gatwick. The journey time flying from Manchester to London Gatwick United Kingdom is around 50 minutes. With the distance covered being 283 Km (176 Miles). The airport code for Manchester is MAN and for London Gatwick it is LGW. Flight prices can fluctuate at certain times of the day but also at weekends. London Gatwick United Kingdom flights may be normally booked months in advance and this may be the best option if you intend to get the best prices from Manchester.
Popular routes from Manchester. 1  Flights to London from Manchester. 2  Manchester to Belfast. 3  Flights Manchester to Edinburgh. 4  Manchester to Southampton. 5  Manchester to Bournemouth. 6  Cheap flights to Newquay from Manchester. Cheap flights from Manchester to Gatwick. Know your dates, get live prices in seconds: Return One way. Return. One way. To. Direct only Direct flights only. From. We did not recognise that location.
At the time the airline said: Air links between Manchester and London will be retained with up to 11 return flights a day to Heathrow, although of course, for anyone transferring to a long-haul flight from Gatwick, that is an unpalatable option – requiring a coach trip, costing £25, around a quadrant of the M25. To make the whole journey by train, the fast way (3h 30m) is taking a Virgin Train to Euston, the Victoria Line to Victoria and the Gatwick Express to the airport. To minimise faff, an easier but longer option is CrossCountry from Manchester to Reading, with an easy connection to First Great Western to Gatwick.
London Gatwick to Manchester Cheapest Fares. The lowest fare found from London Gatwick (LGW) to Manchester (MAN) was £244 with Aurigny. The fares shown here are the lowest flight prices to Manchester obtained in actual searches by Just The Flight customers. To search and book flights to Manchester, please enter your travel requirements in the search form above, and click the search button. Travellers interested in cultural events may want to consider travelling from London Gatwick to Manchester during the Manchester International Festival.
Choose flights to Gatwick for your London holiday and you’ll arrive at the UK’s second-largest airport, just a short rail journey away from central London. Gatwick flights from British Airways connect the wider world with London, but also service domestic destinations such as Edinburgh and Glasgow. Book your travel to London through Gatwick for a quick commute to the city, and nearby attractions in Brighton and Kent will also be within reach. 
We in the North West are badly served after this service stopped, making onward flights from Gatwick almost impossible. Eileen Dunn. A. British Airways abandoned the long-standing link between Manchester and Gatwick at the end of March last year. To make the whole journey by train, the fast way (3h 30m) is taking a Virgin Train to Euston, the Victoria Line to Victoria and the Gatwick Express to the airport. To minimise faff, an easier but longer option is CrossCountry from Manchester to Reading, with an easy connection to First Great Western to Gatwick.