The lymphatic system contains three parts, a network of lymphatic vessels, a fluid inside of the vessels called lymph, and l ymph nodes that cleanse the lymph while it passes through. The problem of circulatory dynamics is resolved by lymphatic vessels, also known as lymphatics. Lymphatic vessels are drainage vessels that collect the excess interstitial fluid and return it to the bloodstream. Once interstitial fluid enters the lymphatic vessels, it is called lymph.
Lymphatic vessels are structures of the lymphatic system that transport fluid away from tissues. Lymphatic vessels are similar to blood vessels, but they don't carry blood. The fluid transported by lymphatic vessels is called lymph. Lymph is a clear fluid that comes from blood plasma that exits blood vessels at capillary beds. It is here that lymph re-enters blood circulation. Returning lymph to the blood helps to maintain normal blood volume and pressure. It also prevents edema, the excess accumulation of fluid around tissues. Large lymphatic vessels are composed of three layers.
The solution that runs through these vessels, called lymph, begins in the circulatory system as blood plasma and then is converted to a fluid known as an interstitial or intercellular fluid. This fluid is responsible for delivering hormones, oxygen, and various nutrients to cells throughout the body. Afferent vessels transport fluid into the lymph nodes, while efferent vessels carry filtered lymph away from the lymph nodes. White blood cells called lymphocytes are a major part of the lymphatic system. Lymph nodes may become swollen when a person gets sick.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
Lymph Fluid. Lymph is a clear-to-white fluid made of: ·Fluid from the intestines called chyle, which contains proteins and fats · Red blood cells · White blood cells, especially lymphocytes, the cells that attack bacteria in the blood. First of all, lymph is important-as important as blood or oxygen. 
Lymph enters vessels known as the subclavian veins, which transport it back to the circulatory system. Afferent vessels transport fluid into the lymph nodes, while efferent vessels carry filtered lymph away from the lymph nodes. White blood cells called lymphocytes are a major part of the lymphatic system. Lymph nodes may become swollen when a person gets sick.
The smallest lymphatic vessels are called lymph capillaries. These vessels are closed at their ends and have very thin walls that allow interstitial fluid to flow into the capillary vessel. Once the fluid enters the lymph capillaries, it is called lymph. Lymph capillaries can be found in most areas of the body with the exceptions of the central nervous system, bone marrow, and non-vascular tissue. Lymphatic capillaries join to form lymphatic vessels. Lymphatic vessels transport lymph to lymph nodes. It is here that lymph re-enters blood circulation. Returning lymph to the blood helps to maintain normal blood volume and pressure. It also prevents edema, the excess accumulation of fluid around tissues. Large lymphatic vessels are composed of three layers.
Lymphatic Vessels (Lymph Vessels). A thin tube that carries lymph (lymphatic fluid) and white blood cells through the lymphatic system. Also called lymph vessel. NIH-National Cancer Institute. See also: The Lymphatic System. 