Pleural effusion is an abnormal buildup of fluid in the pleural cavity. The pleural cavity is the space between the lungs and the chest wall. The fluid builds up between the 2 layers of the pleura, which is a thin layer of tissue that covers the lungs and lines
Cancer that spreads into the pleural cavity, or the space between the lung and the chest wall, can create fluid or a pleural effusion. This process can occur from lung cancer, mesothelioma, or other types of cancers.
A pleural effusion is an abnormal amount of fluid around the lung. Pleural effusions can result from many medical conditions. Most pleural effusions are not serious by themselves, but some require treatment to avoid problems.
A pleural effusion is a buildup of extra fluid in the pleural space, which is the space between the lungs and the chest wall. About half of people with cancer develop a pleural effusion. Cancer growing in the pleural space causes a malignant
A: An abnormal amount of fluid around the lungs is pleural effusion. It can result from several medical conditions and although pleural effusions are not serious, some requires treatment. Shortness of breath, cough, chest pain and fever are general symptoms of
A common complication in certain types of cancers is pleural effusion. Pleural effusion is an accumulation of fluid in the space between the two linings of the lungs. This space is covered with the pleura, a slick lining that provides a smooth interaction between the lungs, ribs and chest wall.
1 Most common causes of exudative pleural effusion are bacterial pneumonia, cancer (lung cancer, breast cancer, and lymphoma most typical), viral pneumonia, and pulmonary embolism. 2  Hemorrhagic effusion (hemothorax): A hemothorax is an accumulation of blood in the pleural space.
Pleural effusion definition. A pleural effusion is a buildup of fluid in the pleural space, an area between the layers of tissue that line the lungs and the chest cavity. It may also be referred to as effusion or pulmonary effusion.