I think that Lawson follows some of his basic idealism and desire to affirm solidarity in how he describes the behavior of the dogs. The use of selective language as a technique to accomplish this is evident. Tommy represents the force of good and of community. Tommy is loyal to the men, never doubting their sincerity. Consider the language Lawson employs in describing the initial confrontation between both dogs: ...there was a vicious yellow mongrel cattle-dog sulking and nursing his nastiness under there--a sneaking, fighting, thieving canine, whom neighbours had tried for years to shoot or poison.
The Australian cattle dog is a very energetic dog, needing a daily dose of activity and exercise. This breed excels in sports, such as agility courses, and enjoys learning tricks. Australian Cattle Dog Appearance. The Australian cattle dog is a medium-sized dog with a muscular, compact build, usually weighing between 40 and 60 pounds. The breed is usually recognized by its intense, focused expression, along with its wide-spaced, pointed ears and speckled fur.
Australian Cattle Dogs have been successful in a range of dog sports including weight pulling, flyball and schutzhund. The breed is particularly suited to activities that a dog can share with its owner such as canicross, disc dog, and skijoring or bikejoring. The Cattle Dog needs plenty of exercise, companionship and a job to do, so a non-working dog might participate in dog sports, learning tricks, or other activities that engage its body and mind. When on home ground, the Australian Cattle Dog is an affectionate and playful pet.
The Australian Cattle Dog (ACD), or simply Cattle Dog, is a breed of herding dog originally developed in Australia for droving cattle over long distances across rough terrain. The Australian Cattle Dog is a medium-sized, short-coated dog that occurs in two main colour forms. It has either brown or black hair distributed fairly evenly through a white coat, which gives the appearance of a red or blue dog. The Cattle Dog needs plenty of exercise, companionship and a job to do, so a non-working dog might participate in dog sports, learning tricks, or other activities that engage its body and mind. When on home ground, the Australian Cattle Dog is an affectionate and playful pet.
Thomas Hall, an Australian drover, was the developer of the breed. He crossed the Scottish Highland Collie with the Australian Dingo to create an Australian Cattle Dog. Heelers are known for their protective instincts of their stock and handler, says Meier. They are a strong, muscular, compact dog with great agility and strength. They weigh 45 lb.-65 lb., with rough wiry coats. Their appearance must be slick hair and bobbed tail. Their colors vary from black, red or merle, to multi-colored. Registration In the cattle industry, breed registration is a highly recommended and desired tool for the success and integrity of an operation.
The cost of an Australian Cattle Dog puppy varies depending on the breeder’s locale, whether the pup is male or female, what titles his parents have, and whether he is best suited for the show ring or a pet home. Remember that after you’ve taken a new puppy into your home, you have the power to protect him from one of the most common health problems: obesity. Keeping an Australian Cattle Dog at an appropriate weight is one of the easiest ways to extend his life.
You can also search online for other Australian Cattle Dog rescues in your area. The great thing about breed rescue groups is that they tend to be very upfront about any health conditions the dogs may have and are a valuable resource for advice. Remember that after you’ve taken a new puppy into your home, you have the power to protect him from one of the most common health problems: obesity. Keeping an Australian Cattle Dog at an appropriate weight is one of the easiest ways to extend his life.
In this light, one can see the story as a type of morality play whereby Lawson through language is able to reward the righteousness and punish those that seek to undermine such goodness in the world. Sources: 1  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Loaded_Dog. 2  http://www.enotes.com/topics/henry-lawson. Consider the language Lawson employs in describing the initial confrontation between both dogs: ...there was a vicious yellow mongrel cattle-dog sulking and nursing his nastiness under there--a sneaking, fighting, thieving canine, whom neighbours had tried for years to shoot or poison.
The Australian Cattle Dog was first known as the Australian Heeler, and he is still sometimes called the Blue or Queensland Heeler today. You must be a leader yourself if you plan to share your life with an Australian Cattle Dog. This is a smart and independent breed who can be a challenge to raise and live with. Remember that after you’ve taken a new puppy into your home, you have the power to protect him from one of the most common health problems: obesity. Keeping an Australian Cattle Dog at an appropriate weight is one of the easiest ways to extend his life.
To some breed-specific enthusiasts, this question may seem offensive. However, the diversity and management of cattle operations are determining factors in what breed of dog will be best for a particular situation. Recently, research at South Dakota State University included an online poll asking cattle producers across the Midwest what the top-five stock dog breeds were. Their appearance must be slick hair and bobbed tail. Their colors vary from black, red or merle, to multi-colored. Registration In the cattle industry, breed registration is a highly recommended and desired tool for the success and integrity of an operation.