We get vitamin A from a variety of sources. Two of the most common sources are retinol and beta-carotene. Retinol is sometimes called “true” vitamin A because it is nearly ready for the body to use. Retinol is found in such animal foods as liver, eggs, and fatty fish. Vitamin A is important for healthy bones. However, too much vitamin A has been linked to bone loss and an increase in the risk of hip fracture. Scientists believe that excessive amounts of vitamin A trigger an increase in osteoclasts, the cells that break down bone.
What is Vitamin A Good for. Vitamins are essential nutrients required to carry out most of the important functions in the body. Vitamins are divided into 6 types, viz. Vitamin A, B, C, D, E and K. Among them, vitamins A, D, E and K are fat-soluble ones while vitamins B and C are water-soluble vitamins. Vitamins are very essential for growth, cell division, proper functioning of the cell, etc. I hope you have gotten a satisfactory answer to your query what is vitamin A good for. Hence, you should try and include vitamin A rich foods in your diet regularly. As a concluding note, one should remember that vitamin deficiency disorders can be prevented merely by having a nutritious and balanced diet everyday.
Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods 1  : Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester. All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached, called a retinyl group. Both structural features are essential for vitamin activity.
What is Vitamin A Deficiency. The foremost answer to the question what is vitamin A good for, is to improve vision. Therefore, lack of vitamin A in one's diet can lead to poor vision. The diseases caused by lack of a particular vitamin / nutrient in the diet are known as deficiency diseases. I hope you have gotten a satisfactory answer to your query what is vitamin A good for. Hence, you should try and include vitamin A rich foods in your diet regularly. As a concluding note, one should remember that vitamin deficiency disorders can be prevented merely by having a nutritious and balanced diet everyday.
Individuals with limited sun exposure need to include good sources of vitamin D in their diet or take a supplement to achieve recommended levels of intake. Despite the importance of the sun for vitamin D synthesis, it is prudent to limit exposure of skin to sunlight [ 19 ] and UV radiation from tanning beds [ 21 ]. Fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel are very good sources of vitamin D. Small amounts of vitamin D are also found in beef liver and egg yolks. 1  Is low in saturated fats, trans fats, cholesterol, salt (sodium), and added sugars.
Beta-carotene is a precursor for vitamin A. The body needs to convert it to retinol or vitamin A for use. Beta-carotene is found naturally in mostly orange and dark green plant foods, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, mangos, and kale. Vitamin A is important for healthy bones. However, too much vitamin A has been linked to bone loss and an increase in the risk of hip fracture. Scientists believe that excessive amounts of vitamin A trigger an increase in osteoclasts, the cells that break down bone.
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in very few foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. It is also produced endogenously when ultraviolet rays from sunlight strike the skin and trigger vitamin D synthesis. Fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel are very good sources of vitamin D. Small amounts of vitamin D are also found in beef liver and egg yolks. 1  Is low in saturated fats, trans fats, cholesterol, salt (sodium), and added sugars.
Vitamin A is essential for good health. It promotes growth, the immune system, reproduction, and vision. However, recent research suggests that too much vitamin A, particularly in the form of retinol, may be bad for your bones. Vitamin A is important for healthy bones. However, too much vitamin A has been linked to bone loss and an increase in the risk of hip fracture. Scientists believe that excessive amounts of vitamin A trigger an increase in osteoclasts, the cells that break down bone.
Vitamin A is a family of fat-soluble compounds that play an important role in vision, bone growth, reproduction, cell division, and cell differentiation. Vitamin A is important for healthy bones. However, too much vitamin A has been linked to bone loss and an increase in the risk of hip fracture. Scientists believe that excessive amounts of vitamin A trigger an increase in osteoclasts, the cells that break down bone.
Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision. All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached, called a retinyl group. Both structural features are essential for vitamin activity.