An uncoupling protein is a mitochondrial inner membrane protein that can dissipate the proton gradient before it can be used to provide the energy for oxidative phosphorylation. There are five types known in mammals: 1  UCP1, also known as thermogenin. 2  UCP2. 3  UCP3. Uncoupling proteins play a role in normal physiology, as in cold exposure or hibernation, because the energy is used to generate heat (see thermogenesis) instead of producing ATP. However, other substances such as 2,4-dinitrophenol and CCCP also serve the same uncoupling function, and are considered poisonous.
Consequently an exposure to a small quantity of azide or cyanide can be lethal. The toxicity of cyanide is solely from its ability to arrest electron transport. To the left is the effect of inhibitors of electron transport in the presence of O 2 and an electron donor such as NADH. Cyanide, azide and carbon monoxide all inhibit electron transport in Complex IV. The all inhibit electron transfer by binding tightly with the iron coordinated in Cyt a 3. Axide and cyanide bind to the iron when the iron is in the ferric state. Carbon Monoxide binds to the iron when it is in the ferrous state
Why... show more Dinitrophenol (DNP) is an uncoupler, or has the ability to separate the flow of electrons and the pumping of H+ ions for ATP synthesis. This means that the energy from electron transfer cannot be used for ATP synthesis. Fifty years ago, DNP was given as a drug to help patients lose weight. Why does... 
Abstract. Classical uncouplers such as 2,4-dinitrophenol have been shown to be ionophores with the capability for transporting monovalent or divalent cations with equal efficiency. The conditions appropriate for the maximal expression of this ionophoric capability have been explored. 
Uncouplers and Inhibitors. Much of our knowledge of mitochondrial function results from the study of toxic compounds. Specific inhibitors were used to distinguish the electron transport system from the phosphorylation system and helped to define the sequence of redox carriers along the respiratory chain. There are six distinct types of poison which may affect mitochondrial function: 1) Respiratory chain inhibitors (e.g. cyanide, antimycin, rotenone & TTFA) block respiration in the presence of either ADP or uncouplers.
4) Transport inhibitors (e.g. atractyloside, bongkrekic acid, NEM) either prevent the export of ATP, or the import of raw materials across the the mitochondrial inner membrane. 5) Ionophores (e.g. valinomycin, nigericin) make the inner membrane permeable to compounds which are ordinarily unable to cross. There are six distinct types of poison which may affect mitochondrial function: 1) Respiratory chain inhibitors (e.g. cyanide, antimycin, rotenone & TTFA) block respiration in the presence of either ADP or uncouplers.
Medical Definition of UNCOUPLER. : an agent that dissociates two integrated series of chemical reactions; especially: one that prevents the formation of ATP in oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria by dissociating the reactions of phosphorylation from those concerned with electron transport and oxidation. Dictionary: Definition of uncoupler
2,4-Dinitrophenol (2,4-DNP or simply DNP) is an organic compound with the formula HOC 6 H 3 (NO 2) 2. It is a yellow, crystalline solid that has a sweet, musty odor. It sublimes, is volatile with steam, and is soluble in most organic solvents as well as aqueous alkaline solutions. 