1 Many other medications may also interact with tacrolimus, so be sure to tell your doctor about all the medications you are taking, even those that do not appear on this list. 2  tell your doctor if you are taking or have recently stopped taking cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune).
How to use Prograf. Take this medication by mouth with or without food, usually every 12 hours or as directed by your doctor. If you have nausea or an upset stomach, you may take this drug with food, although this may cause your body to absorb less of the drug.
Dosage is based on your weight, medical condition, blood test results (e.g., tacrolimus trough levels), and response to therapy. Do not increase your dose or take this medication more often without your doctor's approval. Your condition will not improve any faster and the risk of serious side effects may be increased.
PROGRAF is a prescription medicine used with other medicines to help prevent organ rejection in people who have had a kidney, liver, or heart transplant. The information on the Web site does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical treatment.
USES: Tacrolimus is used with other medications to prevent rejection of a kidney, heart, or liver transplant. This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as immunosuppressants.
Tacrolimus is used along with other medications to prevent rejection (attack of a transplanted organ by the immune system of a person receiving the organ) in people who have received kidney, liver, or heart transplants. Tacrolimus is in a class of medications called immunosupressants.
Uses. Tacrolimus is used with other medications to prevent rejection of a kidney, heart, or liver transplant. This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as immunosuppressants. It works by weakening your body's defense system (immune system) to help your body accept the new organ as if it were your own.
The immune system can also fight or reject a transplanted organ such as a liver or kidney. This is because the immune system treats the new organ as an invader. Tacrolimus is used together with other medicines to prevent your body from rejecting a heart, liver, or kidney transplant. The Astragraf XL brand of tacrolimus is generally not used for liver transplants.