So if your employer offers a salary sacrifice arrangement, you should investigate whether you should take up this offer. Your employer should give you an overview of how salary sacrifice might affect you and whether or not they would pay some or all of the NICs they save into your pension pot. You may also benefit from more pension contributions from your employer, if they are giving you some or all the money they are saving on NICs. But you need to weigh up four disadvantages against this too. 1  If your employer is providing you with life cover, this is usually worked out as a multiple of your salary.
Salary sacrifice is an especially tax-efficient way for you to make pension contributions. You may also benefit from more pension contributions from your employer, if they are giving you some or all the money they are saving on NICs. But you need to weigh up four disadvantages against this too. 1  If your employer is providing you with life cover, this is usually worked out as a multiple of your salary.
Salary sacrifice, or salary exchange, is a tax-efficient agreement between you and your employer, where you agree to give up an amount of future earnings (either salary or bonus). 
A salary sacrifice pension is an optional form of pension saving that is arranged between employer and employee through the employment contract. Before we explain how salary sacrifice works in relation to pension savings, we need to first explain the basic principle of salary sacrifice. Should you and your employer agree to establish a salary sacrifice pension, the law requires certain things of your employer. Most importantly, the employer will have to report all non-cash benefits to HMRC at the end of the tax year.
A salary sacrifice pension scheme is a tax-efficient way to save for retirement. You save on income taxes, and both you and your employer save on National Insurance contributions. The result is guaranteed money put into your pension pot where it can grow over time. Should you and your employer agree to establish a salary sacrifice pension, the law requires certain things of your employer. Most importantly, the employer will have to report all non-cash benefits to HMRC at the end of the tax year.
The idea behind this is quite simple. You give up part of your salary and, in return, your employer gives you a non-cash benefit, such as childcare vouchers, or increased pension contributions. Once you accept a salary sacrifice, your overall pay is lower, so you pay less tax and National Insurance. Salary sacrifice is when you agree to give up part of your salary so you can get extra benefits from your employer. Find out more about how it works. How salary sacrifice works. Things to consider before taking salary sacrifice.
Your employer might offer a salary sacrifice pension scheme to all salaried workers on the payroll. This type of pension scheme is voluntary, but it may be to your advantage if your financial circumstances are right. 1 Contribution Refund – Under a salary sacrifice plan, the money added to your pension account is not considered a contribution on your part.
In a generic sense, salary sacrifice is the principle of forgoing a portion of your salary in exchange for some sort of non-cash benefit. In the case of a pension, you would be sacrificing a portion of your pay in exchange for more money in your pension pot and lower taxes and insurance contributions. 1 Contribution Refund – Under a salary sacrifice plan, the money added to your pension account is not considered a contribution on your part.
Take the example of an employee, earning £40,000 per annum, paying 5% into their pension. If this was done via salary sacrifice, the employer would save 13.8% of what was sacrificed, which is £276 p.a. (based on 2012/13 tax rates and assuming the scheme is contracted-in). Multiply this out for 300 employees, and the saving becomes approximately £83k each and every year the scheme runs.