Look up the Michaelson-Morely experiment. But actually, the speed of light is a defined quantity, not a measured one, so we define everything else (and measure everything else) relative to it. eri · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. measure the angle the mirror rotated, the distance the light travelled during that time, and the rotation speed of the mirror. Voila! It's good to 3 sigdigs, which is pretty damn good for a freshman measuring a fundamental constant. ZikZak
Speed is an expression of how fast an object moves. An object's speed is how much distance it travels in a certain amount of time. Units of speed include miles per hour (mph), centimeters per second (cm/sec or cm/s), meters per second (m/sec or m/s), or kilometers per hour (kph or km/hr). 
Hint: A light-year is a unit of distance, not time. A light-year is how astronomers measure distance in space. It’s defined by how far a beam of light travels in one year – a distance of six trillion miles. Think of it as the bigger, badder cousin of the inch, the mile, the kilometer, and the furlong.
You are looking back in time. The distances in the universe are so vast that scientists use the term light year to measure them. A light year is the distance light travels in one year, or 10 trillion kilometers. That's 1 followed by 13 zeros! The Hubble Space Telescope can see objects even more distant than your eyes can.
So we now know that light travels at 186,000 miles per second and that is a distance of more than three quarters the way to the Moon. That is what is called a “light second.” The distance light travels in one second is 186,000 miles. Even further away is the famous “light year,” the distance light travels in one year. I’ll repeat that just in case you have to re-look at the last line. A light year is the distance light travels in one year. That distance is 5,900,000,000,000 miles. That’s right, five trillion, nine hundred billion miles that light travels in one year. It is often rounded up to 6 trillion miles in a year or that a light year equals a distance of 6 trillion
One light-year isequal to about 9,500,000,000,000 kilometers(9.5 × 10 12 km). Light travels very fast. So fast, in fact, that to usit appears to travel instantly from one place toanother. However, light does have a finite speed.Light travels at 299,792,458 meters (about186,282 miles) per second in a vacuum. Light isslower when passing through transparent mate-rials, such as air, water, or glass.
The light year is not a unit of time; it is the distance light travels in a year, or about 6 trillion miles (10 trillion km). Measuring parallax involves measuring very tiny angles. A degree can be divided into 60 min utes and each minute into 60 seconds. A quarter spans one degree at a distance of 1.5 meters. The Sun is about 8-1/2 minutes away at the speed of light. It takes light about 5-1/2 hours to reach Pluto from the Sun, but 4.3 years to reach the next star. % Scale Models of the Universe. It is impossible to make a physical model that shows Man, the planets, and the stars on the same scale.
We are limited to the information we can measure, which is carried by photons (light). Photons of course cannot travel any faster than the speed of light, which is about 300,000 kilometers per second. On the other hand, astronomers can search the nearby Universe to find analogues of very distant stars or galaxies. 
Describe Olaus Roemer's experiment. Olaus Roemer was the first to try to measure the speed of light in 1675. He did this by measuring the periods of Jupiter's moons. Olaus found that when earth was rotating opposite the moon, Jupiter's moons' period appeared longer than when we were facing the moon. Another experiment measuring the speed of light was performed by Albert Michelson in 1880. He reflected light on an octagonal block with mirrors on each side (eight sides). The light was reflected from one of the mirrors to a mirror on a hillside a distance away.