By law, when a propane tank reaches 12 years of age, it can no longer be filled. We see this frequently at our propane platform here in Peabody, and with the Fourth of July weekend coming up, we figured we’d share with you how to tell whether your grill tank is out of date. The only thing you’ll need is the manufacturing date. As of the day of this post, any tank with a manufacture date before 07-01 we would not be able to fill. If a tank is more then 12 years old, it cannot
If three 1000 gallon propane tanks are installed at one location, what is the distance to a property line and minimum distance between the tanks? Refer to Table 6.3.1, where it can be seen that an aboveground propane tank between 501 and 2,000 gallons requires a 25 ft spacing, and Note f (section 6.3.3) is referred to. 
It’s time for summer barbequing, so it’s important to know the regulations and safety requirements for small propane tanks. First, all propane tanks 10 gallons (40 lb.) or less must be equipped with an Overfill Protection Device (OPD). You can tell if your tank has an OPD by the shape of the valve which should be triangular. Second, the tank must be “in date”. A tank’s manufacture date is stamped into the collar of the tank. It is in this format: 05-12. A tank is in compliance for twelve years from the original manufacture date. So a tank manufactured in 05-12, is good until 05-24. 
1 If the date printed on the sticker has a letter S to the right of it, then your propane tank needs to be requalified within 7 years of the date printed on the sticker. Instructions. Locate the collar of your propane tank. The collar is the raised piece of metal at the top of the tank, surrounding the valve. On the bottom half of the collar, look for the letters MFG DATE.. This indicates the manufacturing date.
In our example this is TW18. This tank empty is 18lbs. So since this is a 20lb tank (holds 20lb of propane) the actual full weight should be 38lbs (18+20=38). You can simply weight your partially filled tank on a scale to get an approximate amount of fuel remaining. If the actual weight was 28lbs (28-18=10) you actually have 10 lbs of fuel left, or half a tank. Most exchanges on a small 5 gal or 20lb BBQ size tank, one that is also full, costs right around $20. Nearly what it costs to refill a complete empty. So don’t take a half full one in to have it topped off, when your tank is at the end of its life.
butane image by silonos from Fotolia.com. It's important to know the age of your propane tank, because propane tanks must be requalified within 12 years of their manufacture date in order to be refilled. If you are not the original owner of the propane tank or can't remember when you bought it, do not worry. Instructions. Locate the collar of your propane tank. The collar is the raised piece of metal at the top of the tank, surrounding the valve. On the bottom half of the collar, look for the letters MFG DATE.. This indicates the manufacturing date.
expiration date on propane tanks. « on: July 14, 2010, 12:17:34 PM ». I learned something new today...20 lb propane tanks have expiration dates on them and tanks are only good for 12 years. There is a month and year stamped on the handle and they can not be refilled 12 years after that date. Re: expiration date on propane tanks. « Reply #3 on: July 14, 2010, 01:23:20 PM ». You can get them re-certified for a small fee. I get my tanks refilled at a commercial propane place (Amerigas) and they only charge like $6 each or something like that to re-cert.
1 If your propane tank has been requalified, the requalification date will be printed on an oval sticker and affixed to the collar of the tank. 2  If the date on the sticker does not have a letter to the right of it, your propane tank needs to be requalified within 12 years of the date on the sticker. Instructions. Locate the collar of your propane tank. The collar is the raised piece of metal at the top of the tank, surrounding the valve. On the bottom half of the collar, look for the letters MFG DATE.. This indicates the manufacturing date.
AmeriGas Propane Exchange is the quick, easy way for you to swap out a tank, or buy a spare. Available at over 48,000 locations nationwide, there is always a local place to get propane you can trust, and get on with your day. It's as simple as 1,2,3... 1  1. LEAVE your propane tank (no matter the brand) outside the store to make an exchange. 2  Never bring tanks indoors. Is it getting hot over here, or is that just us? 