The average national cost of window installation is $4,747, with most homeowners spending between $2,643 and $7,091. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Windows can bring light and warmth, provide views, beautify inside and out and add tremendous value to your home. 
Simply enter in the number of replacement windows you need and our cost estimator will give you a rough price for your window replacement project. 
Use this Windows Calculator tool to estimate the prices for new Replacement Windows installation. You can calculate cost for any type of new replacement window, and most available options: Double Hung, Casement, Picture, Bay / Bow and Garden windows, made out of vinyl, aluminum, wood or fiberglass. How to use Windows Cost Calculator: 1) Enter the number of each window type that you want to estimate. 2) Select windows material type (Vinyl, Wood, Fiberglass or Aluminum). 3) Select windows energy efficiency options: Low-E, Argon Gas, Low-E and Argon, or None.
1 Be sure the estimate includes disposing of the old windows. 2  Replacing non-standard-sized windows requires either custom windows or enlarging the old opening to accommodate a larger standard size, which can up costs by 50-100 percent per window. Additional costs: 1  A window installer should remove the existing windows, install the new ones, cleanup and dispose of the old windows, and wash the new windows. 2  Estimates are usually based on united inches, which is equal to the sum of the length and width of each window; a 40x55-inch window is 95 united inches.
Cost Factors. Replacing a window costs an average of $300 to $700 per window. This assumes that the replacement window is going into an existing and structurally sound frame on a ground floor. Replacing windows in a typical three-bedroom, single-story home with ten windows can cost from $3,000 to $7,000. This cost can easily double for a two-story home. In the case that a window frame must be replaced, it is called a new construction window. A new construction window can increase the cost of replacement by as much as 50% to 100%, raising the average cost to anywhere from $5,000 to $40,000.
Window Installation – Our price list and guide discusses the “in’s” and “out’s” of window installation, including providing average window installation costs for replacement and new construction windows, as well as discussing factors affecting cost and how to choose your window contractor. 
1 This are called new construction windows, and can cost as much as 50-100 percent more than replacement windows, or $5,000-$40,000 for completely rebuilding all the windows in a home. Additional costs: 1  A window installer should remove the existing windows, install the new ones, cleanup and dispose of the old windows, and wash the new windows. 2  Estimates are usually based on united inches, which is equal to the sum of the length and width of each window; a 40x55-inch window is 95 united inches.
Actual Installed Cost: Our estimated installed cost on the Andersen 400 wood clad window is $700 to $900. This is 2x to 3x as much as the $310 big box price. Installation is going to add, on average, $100 per opening. There are a ton of upgrades that will quickly rasie the per window cost from the $310 in our example to as much as $700 for the exact same model window. The big box window price of $310 doesn't include any of the following upgrades-it's what's often referred to as ala carte pricing. Low-e Glass: $25 to $75.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Replacement Window Installation project. For a basic 1 window project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Replacement Windows ranges between $340.04 - $593.63 per window. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased