Availability: Look for goose eggs at farmers' markets or high-end specialty gourmet shops. Sales are seasonal, with goose eggs primarily available in the spring. If they're unavailable locally, try online sources such as Lake Meadow Naturals ($60 for 6 eggs) and Tuckers Turkey Farms ($30 for 6 eggs). Availability: Duck eggs are available at some farmers' markets and are often considered a seasonal item: Quattro Farms offers them in the spring only ($12 per dozen) whereas D'Artagnan sells duck eggs year-round via phone order ($40 for 20 eggs; 1-800-DARTAGNAN).
I have Danish geese-beautiful white and sweet. I am in love. They have started laying and having them only for 4 months now I really don't know what the price of their eggs should be. Only 2 of us to eat and I also have 10 chickens @ 1 egg each a day -- way too much for us. I am selling the chicken eggs at 2.50$ a dz. Oh and I live in Manitoba, Canada.
FARM size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 9 inches or less. It costs 50c per egg. REGULAR size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 9 to 9.5 inches and it costs 75c per egg. … LARGE size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 9.5 to 10.5 inches and it costs $1 per egg. X-LARGE size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 10.5 to 11.5 inches and it costs $5 per egg.
Hi, We had our very first goose egg last week. At the moment getting one every other day but not sure who is laying them, whether it is one or more. Was a bit surprised as they are only 10 months old. I have someone who wants to buy some but I haven't a clue how much goose eggs sell for having never sold or bought one. 
Goose Eggs. The largest egg of common barnyard poultry belongs to the goose. The eggs average 3 to 4.5 inches in length with a circumference of more than 7 inches. Laying on its side, the egg may raise 3 inches off the counter. An average goose egg weighs 144 grams. The yolk of a goose egg is sometimes as large as a chicken egg, and you can use one goose egg for every two chicken eggs in a recipe.
Goose has become very popular at the holidays, so Quattro's Game Farm doesn't always have any birds left over to lay eggs. When they are available, Quattro's goose eggs are roughly equivalent to two jumbo chicken eggs and have a white shell; they tend to sell out quickly, even with their $3-per-egg price tag. Availability: Duck eggs are available at some farmers' markets and are often considered a seasonal item: Quattro Farms offers them in the spring only ($12 per dozen) whereas D'Artagnan sells duck eggs year-round via phone order ($40 for 20 eggs; 1-800-DARTAGNAN).
FARM size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 9 inches or less. It costs 50c per egg. REGULAR size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 9 to 9.5 inches and it costs 75c per egg. LARGE size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 9.5 to 10.5 inches and it costs $1 per egg. X-LARGE size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 10.5 to 11.5 inches and it costs $5 per egg. Jumbo size GOOSE EGGS measure approximately 11.5 inches or more around from end to end and it costs $8
Availability: Chicken eggs are available just about everywhere, including farmers' markets, supermarkets, and superstores such as Target or Costcoyou can even pick up a dozen eggs at most convenience stores. Egg prices can range from $1.90 to $6 per dozen. Availability: Duck eggs are available at some farmers' markets and are often considered a seasonal item: Quattro Farms offers them in the spring only ($12 per dozen) whereas D'Artagnan sells duck eggs year-round via phone order ($40 for 20 eggs; 1-800-DARTAGNAN).
Like other eggs, goose eggs vary in size, so you'll need to use some judgment as to their volume based on the specimens you have in hand. Knowing that a large chicken egg (which is what is called for in most recipes) measures 1/4 cup is helpful when substituting goose eggs for chicken eggs in recipes. 