1 The citizens of Canada do not need a visa for traveling to Malaysia for up to 3 months for business trips and tourism purposes. It is issued to foreign citizens, who need a visa to enter Malaysia on transit to other countries. Foreign Nationals on transit, who wouldn't leave the airport precincts and continue their flight to the next destination, do not need a transit visa.
Visa is of utmost concern while traveling to any foreign country. Regarding Malaysian Visa, here are given certain facts: 1  The citizens of Canada do not need a visa for traveling to Malaysia for up to 3 months for business trips and tourism purposes. 2  Further than the date of entry into Malaysia, passports should be valid for as a minimum of six months. It is issued to foreign citizens, who need a visa to enter Malaysia on transit to other countries. Foreign Nationals on transit, who wouldn't leave the airport precincts and continue their flight to the next destination, do not need a transit visa.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. American citizens are required to have a passport valid for at least six months to enter Malaysia, but Americans do not need to obtain a visa in advance for a pleasure or business trip if their stay in Malaysia is 90 days or less. Best Answer: US passport holders do not need visa to visit Malaysia. they are allowed to stay in Malaysia for 90 days each visit. Source(s): http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw..
Commonwealth countries are loosely defined as those countries (except UK) that were formerly a British colony. Those who are from Ireland, Switzerland, Netherlands, Liechtenstein and San Marino also do not require a Malaysia Visa to enter the country. American citizens are also exempt from the need of a Malaysia Visa when entering unless it is for the purpose of working locally. Malaysian Immigration provide a different classification for a “No visa requirement” for certain countries if the length of stay is less than 14 days, 30 days, 60 days or 90 days. 
1 For a Social and Business visit not beyond one month, the citizens of ASEAN countries do not need a visa to enter Malaysia. 2  For a Social and Business visit not more than 14 days, the nationals of Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Syria, and South Yemen do not need a visa. It is issued to foreign citizens, who need a visa to enter Malaysia on transit to other countries. Foreign Nationals on transit, who wouldn't leave the airport precincts and continue their flight to the next destination, do not need a transit visa.
· just now. Report Abuse. . American citizens are required to have a passport valid for at least six months to enter Malaysia, but Americans do not need to obtain a visa in advance for a pleasure or business trip if their stay in Malaysia is 90 days or less. . Source(s): http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw..
In 2015, holders of a United States passport could visit 172 countries and territories visa-free or with visa on arrival, and the United States passport was ranked 2nd (tied with Finland and Sweden) in terms of travel freedom according to the Visa Restrictions Index. Visa on arrival. 30 days, extendable for 30 days. 1  Holders of a visa or entrance stamp of the Emirate of Dubai that is valid for at least 21 days are visa exempt. 2  Holders of a visa for Qatar that is valid for travel to Oman and valid for at least one month are visa exempt when arriving directly from Qatar.
Citizens exempt from the visa requirement. If you are a citizen of one of the following countries, you do not need a visa in order to enter Denmark: Andorra. Antigua and Barbuda. Albania**** (Only citizens with biometric passports are exempt from the visa requirement. 
Nationals of the following countries DO NOT require a visa to enter Malaysia For Social Visit and the duration of stay is 14 days only. The countries are : IRAQ, LIBYA, SYRIA, MACAU (TRAVEL PERMIT), PORTUGAL (ALIEN PASSPORT), PALESTINE, SIERRA LEONE, SOMALI, SOUTH YEMEN. 4. Nationals of the following countries DO NOT require a visa to enter Malaysia For Social Visit and the duration of stay is 15 days only. The country is: IRAN. 5. Nationals of the following countries DO NOT require a visa to enter Malaysia For Any Purpose of Visit.