In stock investing there are a few universal truths. One of them is that at some point, a stock's price will fall. There are myriad reasons why a stock's price falls and it is up to you as a stock investor to determine the cause. 
1 Beta can be zero. 2  Some zero-beta assets are risk-free, such as treasury bonds and cash. 3  However, simply because a beta is zero does not mean that it is risk-free. 4  A beta can be zero simply because the correlation between that item's returns and the market's returns is zero. An example of the first is a treasury bill: the price does not go up or down a lot, so it has a low beta. An example of the second is gold. The price of gold does go up and down a lot, but not in the same direction or at the same time as the market.
DEFINITION of 'Portfolio'. A grouping of financial assets such as stocks, bonds and cash equivalents, as well as their mutual, exchange-traded and closed-fund counterparts. Portfolios are held directly by investors and/or managed by financial professionals. Next Up. Think of an investment portfolio as a pie that is divided into pieces of varying sizes representing a variety of asset classes and/or types of investments to accomplish an appropriate risk-return portfolio allocation.
A beta of 1 indicates that the security's price will move with the market. A beta of less than 1 means that the security will be less volatile than the market. A beta of greater than 1 indicates that the security's price will be more volatile than the market. For example, if a stock's beta is 1.2, it's theoretically 20% more volatile than the market. Many utilities stocks have a beta of less than 1
In finance, the beta (β) of an investment is a measure of the risk arising from exposure to general market movements as opposed to idiosyncratic factors. The market portfolio of all investable assets has a beta of exactly 1. An example of the first is a treasury bill: the price does not go up or down a lot, so it has a low beta. An example of the second is gold. The price of gold does go up and down a lot, but not in the same direction or at the same time as the market.
A mutual fund is a company that pools money from many investors and invests the money in securities such as stocks, bonds, and short-term debt. The combined holdings of the mutual fund are known as its portfolio. Investors buy shares in mutual funds. How to buy and sell mutual funds. Investors buy mutual fund shares from the fund itself or through a broker for the fund, rather than from other investors. The price that investors pay for the mutual fund is the fund’s per share net asset value plus any fees charged at the time of purchase, such as sales loads.
It is usually described as a measure of volatility. There are individual stock betas and industry betas. A beta of one indicates that the stock's price moves exactly with the overall market. For example, if the market goes up 20%, the stock price goes up 20%. Market down 10%, stock down 10%. This is, of course, calculated over a period of months and does not necessarily hold true on a daily basis. A stock with a beta of more than one is more volatile than the market. If the market goes up, it tends to go up at a greater magnitude (i.e. market goes up 10%, stock goes up 15%). The higher the beta, the more volatile the stock.
DEFINITION of 'Beta'. Beta is a measure of the volatility, or systematic risk, of a security or a portfolio in comparison to the market as a whole. Beta is used in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), a model that calculates the expected return of an asset based on its beta and expected market returns. A beta of less than 1 means that the security will be less volatile than the market. A beta of greater than 1 indicates that the security's price will be more volatile than the market. For example, if a stock's beta is 1.2, it's theoretically 20%
As an example, if you bought 10 shares of ABC at $100 a share, you would multiply 10 by $100 to get a $1,000 initial value. If stocks DEF and GHI had total initial values of $2,000 and $1,500, respectively, add $1,000 plus $2,000 plus $1,500 to calculate a total portfolio value of $4,500. 