The p24 antigen test can detect the p24 protein on average 10 to 14 days after infection with HIV. , , , One drawback of this test is that levels of the p24 protein peak at around three to four weeks after exposure to HIV and are usually not detectable after five to six weeks (and sometimes even earlier). This illness usually lasts less than two weeks although it can last as long as 10 weeks. If a client has had a recent high-risk encounter and experiences any of these symptoms, they should be encouraged to have an HIV test. Depending on the time since infection, the antibody test may not give an accurate result.
1 Therefore, blood testing must be done within days of suspected exposure. 2  Urine is used to test for metallic mercury and inorganic forms of mercury, but it cannot be used to determine exposure to methyl mercury. Mercury testing may be ordered when a person has signs and symptoms suggesting excessive exposure to mercury. Acute signs and symptoms may include: 1  Burning in the mouth and lungs. 2  Cough, difficulty breathing, chest tightness. 3  Difficulty urinating and decreased urine output. 4  Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or abdominal cramping.
One recommended strategy is to get tested 2-4 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after a risky exposure. Using a senstitive antigen/antibody HIV test, of those who are infected, most will test positive at 1 month; almost all will test positive at 3 months; and the rest will test positive at 6 months. 
However, there are two problems with this test. First, the test on blood or urine should be performed five days or more after a person has stopped eating fish; because such a meal can raise the blood level of mercury higher than normal for a short (up to five days) time period. This makes the diagnosis difficult for the physician because many times the symptoms of mercury poisoning are subtle and may take weeks, months, or years to develop in some individuals.
1 Urine is used to test for metallic mercury and inorganic forms of mercury, but it cannot be used to determine exposure to methyl mercury. 2  Hair testing may be useful to detect methyl mercury exposures that occurred several months previously, but hair testing is relatively complex and is not used frequently. Mercury testing may be ordered when a person has signs and symptoms suggesting excessive exposure to mercury. Acute signs and symptoms may include: 1  Burning in the mouth and lungs. 2  Cough, difficulty breathing, chest tightness. 3  Difficulty urinating and decreased urine output. 4  Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or abdominal cramping.
1 Other forms of mercury (metallic and inorganic) can also be detected in the blood, but the amount present will decrease by half about every 3 days as the mercury moves into organs such as the brain and kidneys. Mercury testing may be ordered when a person has signs and symptoms suggesting excessive exposure to mercury. Acute signs and symptoms may include: 1  Burning in the mouth and lungs. 2  Cough, difficulty breathing, chest tightness. 3  Difficulty urinating and decreased urine output. 4  Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or abdominal cramping.
Acute mercury poisoning can be detected by measuring mercury levels in the blood; this test is usually done in a specialized laboratory. A normal mercury level is less than 10 µg/L (micrograms/liter) and less than 20µg/L in urine. Higher levels suggest toxic exposure. This makes the diagnosis difficult for the physician because many times the symptoms of mercury poisoning are subtle and may take weeks, months, or years to develop in some individuals.
Mercury poisoning (also known as hydrargyria or mercurialism) is a type of metal poisoning and a medical condition caused by exposure to mercury or its compounds. Mercury (chemical symbol Hg) is a heavy metal occurring in several forms. 