The Voluntary Disclosure Program allows qualified entities, qualified shareholders, or beneficiaries that may have incurred an unpaid California tax liability or an unfulfilled filing requirement to disclose their liability voluntarily. Qualified entities, shareholders, or beneficiaries that choose to participate in the Voluntary Disclosure Program must complete an Application for Voluntary Disclosure form FTB 4925. To remain anonymous, program applicants may have a representative contact the FTB.
1.A program extended to eligible tax entities that waives penalties on unpaid tax liabilities or unfulfilled filing requirements in exchange for their voluntary disclosure and the payment of interest of past due amounts. 
2012 Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program. The IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program is working with taxpayers whose penalties may be reduced. The IRS began an open-ended OVDP in January 2012 because of strong interest in the 2009 and 2011 programs. The IRS may end the 2012 program at any time in the future. 
Voluntary disclosure has also been identified as an important area in financial reporting research. Voluntary disclosures can include strategic information such as company characteristics and strategy, nonfinancial information such socially responsible practices, and financial information such as stock price information.
Under the Tax Department’s Voluntary Disclosure and Compliance program, eligible taxpayers who owe back taxes and haven't filed related returns can avoid monetary penalties and possible criminal charges by: 1  telling the Department what taxes they owe; 2  paying those taxes; and. 3  entering an agreement to pay all future taxes. 
Voluntary disclosure is the process of reporting undisclosed liabilities for any tax administered by the Louisiana Department of Revenue. Taxpayers may anonymously enter into agreements and voluntarily pay their taxes with a reduced or no penalty. In most cases, taxpayers enjoy a limited “look-back” period. The voluntary disclosure program helps coordinate the registration and payment process and provides general responses to tax related questions.
Overview. The Voluntary Disclosure Act (Public Act 221 of 1998) authorizes the State Treasurer, or a representative, to enter into a voluntary disclosure agreement with nonfilers who have not been previously contacted by the Department and who meet certain other criteria. (Reference MCL 205.30c). 
In the United States, a voluntary disclosure agreement (VDA), is a program whereby taxpayers can receive certain benefits from proactively disclosing prior period tax liabilities in accordance with a binding agreement. The primary benefits of a voluntary disclosure typically include: 1  Limitations of the prior look-Back period-Usually the look-back period is limited to between 3 and 5 years as opposed to having no statute of limitations if no return has ever been filed.
Voluntary disclosure is a program in which the Wisconsin Department of Revenue (DOR) encourages businesses and individuals who are not in compliance with Wisconsin tax laws to voluntarily come forward. Taxpayers may remain anonymous throughout the voluntary disclosure process. A taxpayer may request voluntary disclosure treatment by submitting a written request to the department for consideration. If applying for voluntary disclosure for more than one tax type, each tax type must be specified in the written request.
Voluntary disclosure is the provision of information by a company's management beyond requirements such as generally accepted accounting principles and Securities and Exchange Commission rules, where the information is believed to be relevant to the decision-making of users of the company's annual reports. Voluntary disclosures can include strategic information such as company characteristics and strategy, nonfinancial information such socially responsible practices, and financial information such as stock price information.