Combi boiler prices, installation costs and extras. One of the common mistakes people make when considering a new boiler is to simply google ‘combi boiler prices’ – the search results would have you think a new boiler can be installed for less than £1,000. Sadly, this just isn’t the case.
The cost of installing a boiler. Find out how to get a new boiler installed and how much it should cost. Once you know, make sure you install a Best Buy boiler by using our boiler reviews.
Boiler Costs by Type. If you have a boiler installed or replaced, you might pay anywhere between $3,111 and $7,204. On average, homeowners tend to pay $5,100. These prices are highly dependent on the type of boiler you choose.
This might cost £700 for the boiler, £600 for the installation, and another £150 for a magnetic filter, bringing the total to £1,450 – about as cheap an install as you're likely to get. Add a ‘power flush’ if there happened to be sludge in the system, and you're quickly up to £1,950 – still, not bad.
Approximate starting prices are discussed below: 1  If you are keeping the same type of boiler (e.g. if you have a existing combi boiler you are replacing it with a new combi), the price to buy and install it will start at about £1300 provided there are no real plumbing adjustments required.
1 If you are keeping the same type of boiler (e.g. if you have a existing combi boiler you are replacing it with a new combi), the price to buy and install it will start at about £1300 provided there are no real plumbing adjustments required.
Boiler installation costs vary enormously, depending on how much work is required, the parts needed and their availability, where you live and who you employ for the job.
The cost for replacing a standard gas boiler is about $4,000. A high-efficiency model costs about $7,500. This cost estimate usually includes removal and disposal of the old unit, as well as all necessary lines, ducts and wiring needed for the new system to run properly.
1 Installing a standard boiler (80%-85% annual fuel utilization efficiency) typically costs about $2,500-$5,000 for a gas-fired model and $3,000-$6,500 for an oil-fired unit (generally used in areas without municipal gas lines).
Combi boiler installation costs on this page are for homes which already have a combi boiler. If your heating system needs altered to make a combi boiler fit, then this will incur extra fees. This normally costs between £100 – £400 depending on how much work and materials are needed.