An undergraduate program in occupational therapy can last between 3-4 years. Further, a master's degree will take a minimum of 2 years. That makes the duration at school about 5-6 years. Thereafter, a minimum of six months of work experience is required for you to qualify for the certification exam. In order to know whether you are suitable for this job, you first need to know what occupational therapy is and what an occupational therapist does. An occupational therapist is someone who aids the physically and mentally disabled with their daily activities, and teaches them how to become independent.
But, that's pretty much the average that an occupational therapist would get. The amount of time that someone would have to commit for occupational therapy career, four years of collage in an undergraduate program, and then two years masters program in occupational therapy. Then they would have to pass state and national boards. And then they would have to do, six months of supervised work
The Basics: Occupational Therapist. What you'll do: Occupational therapists treat patients with injuries, illnesses or disabilities through the therapeutic use of everyday activities. You'll work with patients to develop, recover and improve the skills they need for daily working and living. If you're interested in becoming an occupational therapist, you'll need to commit to a master's degree program, which usually takes about two-and-a-half years to complete. Other options, including direct entry degrees, are also available. These are designed for students with a bachelor's degree in another field.
An occupational therapy (OT) assistant works under the direction of an occupational therapist to guide patients in prescribed therapeutic activities and exercises, often using specialized equipment, in order to help them achieve or recover their full, independent and healthy lifestyles in spite of injury or disability. Education. The minimum education requirement for an occupational therapy assistant is a two-year associate’s degree. The degree should be from a program accredited by the American Occupational Therapy Association.
If you want to look into Art Therapist: http://www.arttherapy.org/ this website will give you tons of info on the career. As for being an Occupational Therapist, it could take 5 to 6 years depending on a number of factors. Common under-grad majors are sociology, psychology, kinesiology, and liberal studies. I am a college freshman and very interested in occupational therapy. I&#39;m also in love with art, so I would like to somehow combine the two in a... Source(s): long occupational therapist: https://trimurl.im/c61/how-long-does-it-... Angeline · 3 months ago.
RE: How long does it take to become an occupational therapist? Does someone have to get a bachelors degree before getting into an occupational therapy program, or is occupational therapy itself a four year program? I am a college freshman and very interested in occupational therapy. I&#39;m also in love with art, so I would like to somehow combine the two in a... Source(s): long occupational therapist: https://trimurl.im/c61/how-long-does-it-... Angeline · 3 months ago.
Become a certified Occupational Therapist Assistant through the National Board for Occupational Therapy. Through the board, you will have to apply for a certification to become a certified Occupational Therapist Assistant (COTA). You must fill out the application after you earn your accredited degree, and then take the exam and pay the fee. Apply for jobs at places where you would like to work as an Occupational Therapist Assistant. Now that you have the proper formal education and the certification, you are ready to begin your career as an Occupational Therapist Assistant. Search for job openings in your local newspaper's classifieds as well as online.
Depending on the requirements of your graduate school and licensing board, you may need to earn a bachelor’s degree in a particular area. For example, some graduate schools require you to earn a degree in biology, while others may require occupational therapy. There are about 175 accredited programs approved by the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) for an associate degree. You only need to earn an associate’s degree if you plan on remaining an occupational therapy assistant.
OTAs take the Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant (COTA) exam. Once candidates have their associate degree, documented fieldwork experience, and passing COTA exam grade in hand, they may apply to their state for licensure, which is essentially a verification process for the above qualifications. Education. The minimum education requirement for an occupational therapy assistant is a two-year associate’s degree. The degree should be from a program accredited by the American Occupational Therapy Association.