(Redirected from Medical malpractice). Medical malpractice is professional negligence by act or omission by a health care provider in which the treatment provided falls below the accepted standard of practice in the medical community and causes injury or death to the patient, with most cases involving medical error. 
Medical malpractice is when a doctor or another medical professional-like a nurse or technician-does something or doesn't do something that causes an injury or some harm to you, the patient. The medical professional's act or failure to act (called an omission) is called medical negligence.. Medical Negligence. The mistake or omission can happen at any time during medical treatment. For example, your doctor may make a mistake diagnosing your illness, or she may not give you the proper treatment or medication for that illness. The key here is the standard of care.
Negligence (Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally not to pick up something) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances. The area of tort law known as negligence involves harm caused by carelessness, not intentional harm. 
Knowledge center. Medical malpractice refers to professional negligence by a health care professional or provider in which treatment provided was substandard, and caused harm, injury or death to a patient. According to expert malpractice lawyers in the USA, for medical malpractice to be considered, a claim needs to have some broad characteristics: The plaintiff-this is the patient, a legally designated person who acts on the patient's behalf, or if the patient died, the executor/administrator of the patient's estate.
Improper, unskilled, or negligent treatment of a patient by a physician, dentist, nurse, pharmacist, or other health care professional. Negligence is the predominant theory of liability concerning allegations of medical malpractice, making this type of litigation part of Tort Law. 
Medical errors are more common than you might think. Medical malpractice is negligence on the part of a medical or health care provider, which results in harm to the patient. The resultant harm can be caused by negligence or an act of omission, where no treatment is provided. This can include misdiagnosis, errors in treatment, health management, or medication errors. Violating these standards of care can constitute medical malpractice or negligence. The patient did not give informed consent – The doctor or surgeon must inform the patient of the risks involved with the possible treatment plan or procedure.
You also have to prove that the injury is connected to the negligence. This is called causation, meaning your damage or harm was caused by the doctor's mistake. This may be the most difficult-and expensive-part of any medical malpractice case. Medical Negligence. The mistake or omission can happen at any time during medical treatment. For example, your doctor may make a mistake diagnosing your illness, or she may not give you the proper treatment or medication for that illness. The key here is the standard of care.
Medical malpractice occurs when a hospital, doctor or other health care professional, through a negligent act or omission, causes an injury to a patient. The negligence might be the result of errors in diagnosis, treatment, aftercare or health management. 1 An injury was caused by the negligence-For a medical malpractice claim to be valid, it is not sufficient that a health care professional simply violated the standard of care. 2  The patient must also prove he or she sustained an injury that would not have occurred in the absence of negligence
Medical malpractice cases arise when a patient is harmed by a doctor or nurse (or other medical professional) who fails to provide proper health care treatment. Fortunately, doctors, nurses, and hospitals make mistakes in a small number of cases. A physician or obstetrician's negligence can happen during childbirth or long before. Negligent prenatal care. If negligent medical treatment is provided during the pregnancy, it could harm the fetus or the mother (or both).