In 2009, Cale told The Times that three of his songs — After Midnight and Cocaine, and Lynyrd Skynyrd's Call Me the Breeze — provided about 80% of his income. Cale is survived by his wife, Christine Lakeland, a vocalist and keyboardist he met in Nashville. Clapton's After Midnight breathed new life into Cale's career. He made his first album — Naturally — and moved to Nashville. Working from his own Crazy Mama's studio, he worked enough over the next decade to enter what he called semi-retirement in California.
After Midnight  is a rock song by J.J. Cale from his 1966 single Slow Motion which was successfully covered by Eric Clapton. Cale rerecorded the song for his 1972 album Naturally. After Midnight was also in many ways the catalyst for Cale's own solo recording career.
R. Diamond/WireImage/Getty Images. J.J. Cale wrote hits including After Midnight and Cocaine for Eric Clapton. J.J. Cale, whose songs became hits for the likes of Eric Clapton and Lynyrd Skynyrd, has died at age 74 from a heart attack, his management agency's website announced. Cale died at about 8 p.m. Friday at Scripps Hospital in La Jolla, Calif., the Rosebud agency said Saturday
. After Midnight  is a rock song by J.J. Cale from his 1966 single Slow Motion which was successfully covered by Eric Clapton. The laid back boogie feel of After Midnight is a prime example of Cale's signature style. Cale rerecorded the song for his 1972 album Naturally. After Midnight was also in many ways the catalyst for Cale's own solo recording career. Cale was unaware of Clapton's recording of the song until it became a radio hit in 1970
JJ Cale, the musician best known for writing the Eric Clapton hits After Midnight and Cocaine, died Friday (July 26) at the age of 74. The singer-songwriter's official website confirms that Cale passed away at Scripps Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. on Friday night after suffering a heart attack. After Cale signed to Shelter Records in 1969, Clapton recorded After Midnight and made it a smash hit. Cale's debut album, Naturally, came in 1971, and featured the song Call Me the Breeze, later covered and popularized by Lynyrd Skynyrd.
read more. After Midnight is a rock song written by J. J. Cale. The laidback boogie feel of After Midnight is a prime example of Cale's signature style. Though Cale wrote the song, it first appeared on Eric Clapton's eponymous 1970 album, and Clapton's recording remains the most well known version of the song. Cale had written the song and released a demo version in 1966
J.J. Cale, the Oklahoma-born singer-songwriter whose songs “After Midnight” and “Cocaine” were made into hits by Eric Clapton, died Friday, July 26 in Los Angeles after suffering a heart attack. 
J.J. Cale was a pioneer in the laid-back Tulsa Sound who shunned the spotlight but penned songs for Eric Clapton, Waylon Jennings and Lynyrd Skynyrd. July 27, 2013 | Steve Chawkins. J.J. Cale in 2004; the Oklahoma-born musician who shunned the spotlight… (Associated Press). J.J. Cale, a laconic, Oklahoma-born musician who shunned the spotlight but gained fame by penning such hits as After Midnight and Cocaine, has died. Clapton's After Midnight breathed new life into Cale's career. He made his first album — Naturally — and moved to Nashville. Working from his own Crazy Mama's studio, he worked enough over the next decade to enter what he called semi-retirement in California.
Pat Saperstein. JJ Cale, the musician who wrote “Cocaine” and “ After Midnight ” for Eric Clapton and songs for numerous other artists, died Friday of a heart attack in La Jolla, Calif. He was 74. This story first appeared in the July 30, 2013 issue of Variety. Subscribe today. See more. 