Kidney stones: Cranberry juice and cranberry extracts contain a large amount of a chemical called oxalate. In fact, there is some evidence that some cranberry extract tablets can boost the level of oxalate in the urine by as much as 43%. 1 For preventing UTIs in children: 15ml/kg daily as 30% cranberry concentrate has been used. 2  For use as a urinary deodorizer for incontinent patients: 3-6 oz per day of cranberry juice. 3  For type 2 diabetes: Six capsules (equivalent to 240 mL cranberry juice cocktail) daily for 12 weeks.
It's not just too much cranberry juice that you give you diarrhea. Drinking too much of any fruit juice or even eating a lot of fruit can cause diarrhea. According to MedlinePlus, the fructose -- a type of sugar -- in fruit and fruit juice can cause diarrhea in people who have difficulty digesting it.
A. A dotFIT answered. Orally, cranberry is usually well tolerated and certainly at a normal intake of 1-2 cups/day. However, in very large doses, for example 12-17 cups/day of juice, cranberry can cause gastrointestinal upset and diarrhea. 
Most people who drink cranberry juice experience no adverse effects, especially when it is used in moderation. However, if you drink large amounts of the juice, it can cause some bothersome gastrointestinal problems. In addition to diarrhea, you may also have stomach pain or abdominal cramps. In addition, drinking too much cranberry juice -- more than 1 liter per day over an extended period -- can increase your risk for kidney stones, especially in people who are prone to them, MedlinePlus reports. According to MedlinePlus, the fructose -- a type of sugar -- in fruit and fruit juice can cause diarrhea in people who have difficulty digesting it.
The reason why you are having diarrhea is because you are drinking to much grape juice. You can look it up on the internet drinking excessive fruit juices causes diarrhea. Do not drink anymore juice and eat foods easy on the digestive system until the diarrhea goes away (most likely scenario)... I had recently started to drink 100% Grape Juice as a minimal appetite suppressant because of the natural sugars...etc blah blah blah I have been drinking about 8-16 ounces and have recently had crippling diarrhea.
Even the healthiest foods and drinks can cause side effects and adverse reactions in people who are allergic to them, or when consumed in excess. Below, you find a few examples of side effects that some people have experienced of drinking cranberry juice or eating cranberries. People who are prone to developing kidney stones are usually advised not to use concentrated cranberry products as concentrated cranberry supplements can cause a significant increase the oxalate concentration of urine. This in turn may promote the development of new kidney stones.
Side Effects and Warnings. Patients with diabetes or glucose intolerance may want to drink sugar-free cranberry juice to avoid a high sugar intake. High doses of cranberry may cause stomach distress and diarrhea, or may increase the risk of kidney stones in people with a history of oxalate stones. Some commercially available products are high in calories. On average, six ounces of cranberry juice contains approximately 100 calorie
Cranberry juice and cranberry extracts have been used safely in people. Cranberry juice is LIKELY SAFE for children. However, drinking too much cranberry juice can cause some side effects such as mild stomach upset and diarrhea. Drinking more than 1 liter per day for a long period of time might increase the chance of getting kidney stones. 1 For preventing UTIs in children: 15ml/kg daily as 30% cranberry concentrate has been used. 2  For use as a urinary deodorizer for incontinent patients: 3-6 oz per day of cranberry juice. 3  For type 2 diabetes: Six capsules (equivalent to 240 mL cranberry juice cocktail) daily for 12 weeks.
Posted. Cranberry and lemon usually don't tend to increase diarrhea, but what was that juice sweetened with. Pear or apple juice as well as high fructose corn syrup can increase diarrhea and usually those juices need a lot of sweetener. So it may be the sweetener rather than the small amounts of cranberry or lemon juice in the mix. 
home vitamins, herbs, dietary supplements a-z list cranberry. Cranberries contain certain chemicals that prevent bacteria from growing in the urinary tract. Cranberry is safe for most people, but drinking too much cranberry juice can cause some side effects such as mild stomach upset and diarrhea. Drinking more than 1 liter per day for a long period of time might increase the chance of getting kidney stones. Some cranberry juice products are sweetened with extra sugar. 