In the same year it was recognised by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC) and given equal prominence with the Australian Aboriginal Flag. In July 1995 the Australian Government recognised it, with the Australian Aboriginal Flag, as an official ‘Flag of Australia’ under the Flags Act 1953. The Aboriginal flag should be flown or displayed with the black at the top and the red at the bottom. Any questions on how and when to display the Australian Aboriginal Flag should be directed to the Commonwealth Flag Officer in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
History and significance of the Aboriginal flag The Aboriginal flag is an official flag of Australia and was recognised under Federal legislation in July 1995. Designed by Aboriginal Elder Harold Thomas in 1971, this flag symbolises Aboriginal identity. Flying of the Australian and Queensland flags is also described in the context of flying the Aboriginal. and Torres Strait Islander flags. History and significance of flags. The Aboriginal flag is an official flag of Australia and was. recognised under Federal legislation in July 1995.
The Australian Aboriginal Flag was designed by artist Harold Thomas and first flown at Victoria Square in Adelaide, South Australia, on National Aborigines Day, 12 July 1971. It became the official flag for the Aboriginal Tent Embassy in Canberra after it was first flown there in 1972. The Aboriginal flag should be flown or displayed with the black at the top and the red at the bottom. Any questions on how and when to display the Australian Aboriginal Flag should be directed to the Commonwealth Flag Officer in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Status of the Flag. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander flags were proclaimed as official flags under Section (5) of the Flags Act (1995) by the Governor General on 14 July 1995. This followed on from a decision by the Federal Government to recognise the flags as flags of Australia. The Australian flag is the official flag of Australia, however both the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander flags are recognised flags of Australia.
Australian Aboriginal Flag The Australian Aboriginal Flag is an official flag of Australia, along with the Australian National Flag and the Torres Strait Islander Flag. The Australian Aboriginal Flag is well recognised as the flag of the Aboriginal peoples of Australia. 
The Australian Aboriginal Flag is a flag that represents Aboriginal Australians. It is one of the official  Flags of Australia , and holds special legal and political status, but it is not the  Australian National Flag . Wikimedia Commons has media related to Australian Aboriginal flags. 1  AIATSIS: The Aboriginal Flag. 2  Official Australian Government website: It's an Honour – Australian Aboriginal Flag. 3  NAIDOC – Indigenous Australian flags. 4  Picture of The First Supper (1988) by Susan Dorothea White.
The Australian Aboriginal Flag was designed in 1971 by Aboriginal artist Harold Thomas, who is descended from the Luritja people of Central Australia and holds intellectual property rights to the flag's design. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Australian Aboriginal flags. 1  AIATSIS: The Aboriginal Flag. 2  Official Australian Government website: It's an Honour – Australian Aboriginal Flag. 3  NAIDOC – Indigenous Australian flags. 4  Picture of The First Supper (1988) by Susan Dorothea White.
2 Guidelines for flying the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander flags Queensland Health 2011 History and significance of the Torres Strait Islander flag The Torres Strait Islander flag is an official flag of Australia and was recognised under Federal legislation in July 1995. Flying of the Australian and Queensland flags is also described in the context of flying the Aboriginal. and Torres Strait Islander flags. History and significance of flags. The Aboriginal flag is an official flag of Australia and was. recognised under Federal legislation in July 1995.
The flag was chosen as the official flag for the Aboriginal Tent Embassy and was first flown there in 1972. In 1995, the Australian Government proclaimed the flag as an official 'Flag of Australia' under section 5 of the Flags Act 1953. The History and Meaning of our Flags. The Aboriginal flag was designed by Harold Thomas, a Luritja man from Central Australia. It was created as a symbol of unity and national identity for Aboriginal people during the land rights movement of the early 1970s.