Transcription Transcription is the name given to the process where the information in a gene in a DNA strand is transferred to an RNA molecule. The coding strand and the template strand of DNA The important thing to realise is that the genetic information is carried on only one of the two strands of the DNA.
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription.
Transcription-The process by which DNA is converted into RNA. Translation-The conversion of RNA into protein. Central Dogma of Molecular Biology-The name given for the whole process, t he idea that information coded in the DNA is converted into RNA and then
In other cases, the RNA molecule carries messages from the DNA to other parts of the cell for processing. Most often, this information is used to manufacture proteins. The specific type of RNA that carries the information stored in DNA to other areas of the cell is called messenger RNA, or mRNA. Transcription begins when an enzyme called RNA polymerase attaches to the DNA template strand and begins assembling a new chain of nucleotides to produce a complementary RNA strand.
DNA to RNA Transcription. The DNA contains the master plan for the creation of the proteins and other molecules and systems of the cell, but the carrying out of the plan involves transfer of the relevant information to RNA in a process called transcription. The RNA to which the information is transcribed is messenger RNA (mRNA). The process associated with RNA polymerase is to unwind the DNA and build a strand of mRNA by placing on the growing mRNA molecule the base complementary to that on the template strand of the DNA.
Transcription is the name given to the process where the information in a gene in a DNA strand is transferred to an RNA molecule. The coding strand and the template strand of DNA. The important thing to realise is that the genetic information is carried on only one of the two strands of the DNA.