Mt. Baker erupted in 1843. This eruption resulted in the deaths of many fish in the Baker River, a large forest fire, and the dropping of volcanic ash. The release of steam occurred at Mt. Baker in 1975-6, but no eruption followed this event. Most of the summit of the volcano is covered by glaciers. Because of this, the Indians gave Mt. Baker a name meaning White Steep Mountain.. Easton Glacier near the summit of Mt. Baker.
Mt. Baker has erupted 13 times in recorded history. Its last eruption was in 1880. Sources of Information: Wood, Charles A. and Kienle, Jurgen, Volcanoes of North America: United States and Canada, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, MA, 1990, 354 pp. Most of the summit of the volcano is covered by glaciers. Because of this, the Indians gave Mt. Baker a name meaning White Steep Mountain.. Easton Glacier near the summit of Mt. Baker.
Mount Baker has the second-most thermally active crater in the Cascade Range after Mount Saint Helens. About 31 miles (50 km) due east of the city of Bellingham, Whatcom County, Mount Baker is the youngest volcano in the Mount Baker volcanic field. Located in the Mount Baker Wilderness, it is visible from much of Greater Victoria, Greater Vancouver, and, to the south, from Seattle (and on clear days Tacoma) in Washington.
After Mount Rainier, Mount Baker is the most heavily glaciated of the Cascade Range volcanoes; the volume of snow and ice on Mount Baker, 0.43 cu mi (1.79 km 3) is greater than that of all the other Cascades volcanoes (except Rainier) combined. Located in the Mount Baker Wilderness, it is visible from much of Greater Victoria, Greater Vancouver, and, to the south, from Seattle (and on clear days Tacoma) in Washington.
Mount Baker ... is one of the loftiest and most conspicuous peaks of the northern Cascade range; it is nearly as high as Mount Rainier, and like that mountain, its snow-covered pyramid has the form of a sugar-loaf. It is visible from all the water and islands ... Located in the Mount Baker Wilderness, it is visible from much of Greater Victoria, Greater Vancouver, and, to the south, from Seattle (and on clear days Tacoma) in Washington.
Mount Baker is the youngest volcano of a larger, multivent, volcanic field that has remained recurrently active for the past 1.3 million years. It is located in Washington State about 50 km (31 mi) east of Bellingham Bay and 25 km (16 mi) south of the international border with Canada. 
Snow and ice-covered Mount Baker, located in northern Washington, is the highest peak in the North Cascades (3,286 m or 10,781 ft) and the northernmost volcano in the conterminous United States. 
Mt. Baker is an isolated stratovolcano in northern Washington. It is the northernmost of the Cascade volcanoes in the United States. Most of the summit of the volcano is covered by glaciers. Because of this, the Indians gave Mt. Baker a name meaning White Steep Mountain.. Easton Glacier near the summit of Mt. Baker.