Abstract. As integral components of the musculoskeletal system, the primary function is transmission of muscle forces to the skeletal system. Proper excursion and gliding of the tendon determine the efficiency of this function. Studies of the tendon excursion and gliding based on two simple mechanical concepts have resulted in several significant clinical implications.
Extrinsic Flexor Stretching. Distal stretching of the tendon can be accomplished through extrinsic flexor stretching. When wrist and finger extension is equal on both hands it is assumed that full distal tendon excursion has been achieved. If active exercise has not been enough to achieve this, then use passive stretches and splinting. It is therefore important to apply stress to the tendon to aid remodelling of the scar in both these directions. i.e., proximal stress is achieved through active work of the affected tendon, and distal stress through active and passive work of the antagonist tendon.
As integral components of the musculoskeletal system, the primary function of tendons is transmission of muscle forces to the skeletal system. Proper excursion and gliding of the tendon will determine the efficiency of this function. Proper excursion and gliding of the tendon determine the efficiency of this function. Studies of the tendon excursion and gliding based on two simple mechanical concepts have resulted in several significant clinical implications.
Definitions. 1  biomechanics-application of the principles of mechanics / physics to biological organisms. 2  muscle action vs. function. 3  action-motions produced by a muscle's shortening; described in reference to axes and planes of body. 1 - excursion = length a muscle fiber can contract; function of fiber length. - 2  for muscles of equal length, pinnate muscles have decreased excursion relative to parallel. - 3  max. sarcomere shortening = 50% of resting length; thus max. excursion of muscle = 50%
excursion. Definitions: 1. Any movement from one point to another, usually with the implied idea of returning again to the original position. The definition information for excursion is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
1 biomechanics-application of the principles of mechanics / physics to biological organisms. 2  muscle action vs. function. 3  action-motions produced by a muscle's shortening; described in reference to axes and planes of body. 1 - excursion = length a muscle fiber can contract; function of fiber length. - 2  for muscles of equal length, pinnate muscles have decreased excursion relative to parallel. - 3  max. sarcomere shortening = 50% of resting length; thus max. excursion of muscle = 50%
Tendon excursion takes place as the muscle contracts and the joint rotates. The amount of tendon excursion is related to the amount of the joint rotation. A pulley-type constraint keeps the tendon path close to the bone when the tendon crosses a joint. Proper excursion and gliding of the tendon determine the efficiency of this function. Studies of the tendon excursion and gliding based on two simple mechanical concepts have resulted in several significant clinical implications.
A tendon (or sinew) is a tough cord or band of dense white fibrous connective tissue that unites a muscle with some other part (often a bone) and transmits the force which the … muscle exerts. Use the links below to check facts and learn more. also it means to get shorter or can get longer hope that helps!!:). The water from the River Styx made all of Achilles invulnerable, but his heel, which was not dipped, was completely vulnerable, and Achilles died from being shot in the heel with a poisonous arrow. Therefore the Achilles Tendon is called this because of its proximity to the heel, which was Achilles weak spot.
The amount of tendon excursion was very small in regions distal to the joint in motion (approximately 0.1 mm/10 degrees of joint rotation). Excursion of the flexor digitorum profundus tendon: a kinematic study of the human and canine digits.
The tendon located at side of ankle and above heel is known as Achilles tendon. Because in a Greek mythology story a water nymph named Thetis was trying to make her son, Ach … illes, immortal, so she dipped him in the River Styx. The water from the River Styx made all of Achilles invulnerable, but his heel, which was not dipped, was completely vulnerable, and Achilles died from being shot in the heel with a poisonous arrow. Therefore the Achilles Tendon is called this because of its proximity to the heel, which was Achilles weak spot.