The word viscera refers to all internal organs in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. A list of organs would include the heart, kidneys, uterus, and bladder, among others. The term is the plural of viscus, which is a Latin word meaning an organ of the body. Internal human organs are also called viscera. Viscera refers to the internal organs in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. Cooked offal, which is called viscera when inside the body. The term visceral reaction refers to something that is felt emotionally. View slideshow of images above
The function of the autonomic division of the peripheral nervous  system is temperature control, Blood pressure control, and  fight-or-flight responses. The autonomic nervous system is part of the Peripheral Nervous System, or PNS. The autonomic nervous system is responsible for involuntary movements, the smooth and cardiac m … uscles. Sympathetic (fight or flight) and Parasympathetic (rest and digest) are branches of the ANS.
The nervous system (NS) can be divided into the central nervous system (CNS) which is the brain and spinal cord and the peripheral nervous system (PNS) which is the rest of th … e body. One of the general functions of the NS is Motor function. Motor function uses peripheral neurons so this particular function belongs to the PNS. Motor functions can be divided into two categories: (1) As motor functions of the Somatic Nervous System and (2) as motor functions of the Autonomic Nervous System. The autonomic nervous system is part of the Peripheral Nervous System, or PNS. The autonomic nervous system is responsible for involuntary movements, the smooth and cardiac m … uscles. Sympathetic (fight or flight) and Parasympathetic (rest and digest) are branches of the ANS.
Visceral: Referring to the viscera, the internal organs of the body, specifically those within the chest (as the heart or lungs) or abdomen (as the liver, pancreas or intestines). In a figurative sense, something visceral is felt deep down.. It is a gut feeling.. 
pertaining to the viscera or internal organs. Hence visceral afferents the components of the peripheral nervous system that carry information from the organs. The outgoing nerves to the viscera are the sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves of the autonomic nervous system but are not usually known as visceral efferent
Type 2 diabetes can be caused by storing high amounts of visceral fat. Visceral fat is body fat that is stored within the abdominal cavity and is therefore stored around a number of important internal organs such as the liver, pancreas and intestines. 
The autonomic nervous system is a control system that acts largely unconsciously and regulates bodily functions such as the heart rate, digestion, respiratory rate, pupillary response, urination, and sexual arousal. Within the brain, the autonomic nervous system is regulated by the hypothalamus. Autonomic functions include control of respiration, cardiac regulation (the cardiac control center), vasomotor activity (the vasomotor center), and certain reflex actions such as coughing, sneezing, swallowing and vomiting.
In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots. Visceral fat or abdominal fat (also known as organ fat or intra-abdominal fat) is located inside the abdominal cavity, packed between the organs (stomach, liver, intestines, kidneys, etc.). Visceral fat is different from subcutaneous fat underneath the skin, and intramuscular fat interspersed in skeletal muscles.
Tweet. photo: euskalanato. Visceral manipulation is the practice of an experienced therapist using his or her hands to move and release fascial restrictions in your abdomen and pelvis to encourage the normal movement and function of your internal organs. 