It is magnetic. It is easy to mine and make, which is why it is so useful. Pure iron is soft and very malleable and is able to stretch a lot, while steel (iron mixed with a little carbon) is stronger and does not stretch as much as iron. It is used a lot because it is very strong and cheap. Iron is the main ingredient used to make steel. Raw iron is attracted to magnets, but it is not actually a magnet, however it can be used to make an electromagnet.
Magnets are made by exposing ferromagnetic metals like iron and nickel to magnetic fields. When these metals are heated to a certain temperature, they become permanently magnetized. It's also possible to temporarily magnetize them by using a variety of methods you can try safely at home. Learn how to make a paperclip magnet, an electromagnet, and a magnet you can use as a compass. A simple temporary magnet can be made with a tiny piece of metal, such as a paperclip, and a refrigerator magnet. Gather these items as well as a smaller piece of metal, such as an earring back or a tiny nail, that you can use to test the magnetic properties of the magnetized paperclip.
The most common magnetic material is steel, an alloy (mix) of iron, other metals, and carbon. Pure iron becomes magnetized in a magnetic field but does not stay magnetic. Steel can make a permanent magnet. Magnetism is what gives magnets their ability to attract objects made of iron or steel. A magnet creates around itself a region of space with special properties. This region is known as a MAGNETIC FIELD. When two magnets come near each other, their fields create forces that attract or repel.
Materials that can be magnetized, which are also the ones that are strongly attracted to a magnet, are called ferromagnetic (or ferrimagnetic). These include iron, nickel, cobalt, some alloys of rare earth metals, and some naturally occurring minerals such as lodestone. A horseshoe magnet made of alnico, an iron alloy. The magnet, made in the shape of a horseshoe, has the two magnetic poles close together. This shape creates a strong magnetic field between the poles, allowing the magnet to pick up a heavy piece of iron.
Ferromagnets. A ferromagnetic material is one that has magnetic properties similar to those of iron. In other words, you can make a magnet out of it. Some other ferromagnetic materials are nickel, cobalt, and alnico, an aluminum-nickel-cobalt alloy. Magnetic fields come from currents. To make a permanent magnet, a piece of hard iron is placed in a magnetic field. The domains align with the field, and retain a good deal of that alignment when the field is removed, resulting in a magnet. An electromagnet, in contrast, uses soft iron; this allows the field to be turned on and off.
Iron and other ferrous metals are easily magnetized. Sometimes this happens accidentally, and other times it's done deliberately for practical reasons or as a schoolroom demonstration. 
But if all the electrons algn the same way, a strong magnetic field results. When you bring a magnet close to iron, a property of iron allows the spinning electrons in the iron to easily align with the magnetic field. Other substances do not allow this alignment as easily. The only common metals that can be magnetised are iron, cobalt and nickel. Mild steel, an alloy that contains over 98% iron, can also be magnetised because of its high iron content.
Iron occurs as the cations Fe ++ , ferrous iron, and Fe +++ , ferric iron. Nickel and cobalt occur mainly as the dipositive ions, nickelous and cobaltous, but also in other oxidation states, usually in unstable compounds. A large number of important salts are formed with various anions. At room temperature, iron is in the form of ferrite, or α-iron, a body-centered cubic structure. The density of α-iron is 7.86 g/cc. At 910°C it changes to γ-iron, which is face-centered cubic and somewhat softer. At 1535°C iron melts, and boils at 3000°C.
The magnetism of the iron group of metals is a rare and remarkable property. It is not due to any inherent magnetic propensities of the atoms, but to the structure of the metal. Other substances with similar structures also have similar magnetic properties. At room temperature, iron is in the form of ferrite, or α-iron, a body-centered cubic structure. The density of α-iron is 7.86 g/cc. At 910°C it changes to γ-iron, which is face-centered cubic and somewhat softer. At 1535°C iron melts, and boils at 3000°C.