Authentication through the SSSD will potentially allow LDAP, NIS, and FreeIPA services to provide an offline mode, to ease the use of centrally managing laptop users. The LDAP features will also add support for connection pooling. The following functionality must be tested for use with LDAP servers: 1  Install the sssd package. 2  Configure SSSD to connect to a Fedora Directory Server (on this machine or another). 3  While online (active connection to the Directory server. 4  Attempt to log into a user provided by the Directory Server. 5  User should be authenticated correctly. 6  Should ....
8.2.1. The System Security Services Daemon (SSSD) is a service which provides access to different identity and authentication providers. You can configure SSSD to use a native LDAP domain (that is, an LDAP identity provider with LDAP authentication), or an LDAP identity provider with Kerberos authentication. 8.2. This section provides an introduction to the System Security Services Daemon (SSSD) , the main features that it provides, and discusses the requirements and any limitations of a typical SSSD deployment. This section also describes how to configure SSSD, and how to use the features that it provides.
SSSD (an acronym for 'System Security Services Daemon') is a Fedora Hosted free software project that aims to provide access to identity and authentication remote resource through a common framework that can provide caching and offline support to the system. We assume the vast majority of Fedora and Linux desktop users use what is called 'local' authentication-this means the user account used to allow them to log into their system exists on the system and not in some centrally-managed database.
It provides an NSS and PAM interface to the system, and a pluggable back-end system to connect to multiple different account sources. SSSD is also extensible; you can configure it to use new identity sources and authentication mechanisms should they arise. 8.2. This section provides an introduction to the System Security Services Daemon (SSSD) , the main features that it provides, and discusses the requirements and any limitations of a typical SSSD deployment. This section also describes how to configure SSSD, and how to use the features that it provides.
SSSD provides a set of daemons to manage access to remote directories and authentication mechanisms. It provides an NSS and PAM interface toward the system and a pluggable backend system to connect to multiple different account sources as well as D-Bus interface. It is also the basis to provide client auditing and policy services for projects like FreeIPA. Informs the SSSD to gracefully terminate all of its child processes and then shut down the monitor. SIGHUP. Tells the SSSD to stop writing to its current debug file descriptors and to close and reopen them.
The global configuration of SSSD is stored in the /etc/sssd/sssd.conf file. This file consists of various sections, each of which contains a number of key/value pairs. Defining both simple_allow_users and simple_deny_users is a configuration error. If this occurs, SSSD will output an error to the /var/log/sssd/sssd_default.log log file when loading the back end, but continue to start normally. Future versions of SSSD will output an error and fail to start.
An additional feature of the SSSD will be to provide a service on the system D-BUS called InfoPipe. This service will act as a central authority on extended user information such as face browser images, preferred language, etc. The following functionality must be tested for use with LDAP servers: 1  Install the sssd package. 2  Configure SSSD to connect to a Fedora Directory Server (on this machine or another). 3  While online (active connection to the Directory server. 4  Attempt to log into a user provided by the Directory Server. 5  User should be authenticated correctly. 6  Should ....
SSSD and Active Directory. This section describes the use of sssd to authenticate user logins against an Active Directory via using sssd's ad provider. In previous versions of sssd, it was possible to authenticate using the ldap provider. 
SSSD-System Security Services Daemon. SSSD is a system daemon. Its primary function is to provide access to identity and authentication remote resource through a common framework that can provide caching and offline support to the system. It provides PAM and NSS modules, and in the future will D-BUS based interfaces for extended user information. Check out our troubleshooting page or the  Frequently Asked Questions  page for answers to common issues. If you would like to contribute to the SSSD, a good place to start would be our Contributions page. If you want to file a bug or enhancement request, please log in with your Fedora Account System credentials.