How long does kidney transplant last is subject to various external and internal factors. The answer to how long does a kidney transplant last is, on average, most kidney transplants last somewhere between 10 and 12 years. There are chances that some transplants may fail shortly after transplant; some may be so successful that the recipient may not need another one for years. Another important factor in how long does kidney transplant last is that it does not last forever. In essence, the average duration of a transplanted kidney is approximately ten years for a kidney from a donor who has died to about 12 years for a donor who is alive and is a relative. For a donor who is alive and not related to the patient, the answer to how long does the transplant last is between 10-12
3 years ago. People with transplants can live a full, long life. I got my first kidney transplant at the age of 13. Thirty one years later, it wore out just as my second transplant arrived. I've had it for almost four years. I have a full life and compete at the National level in a popular sport. 
Everyone talks about the success rates of kidney transplants. Rarely do we talk about what happens when transplants fail. People will quote the official statistics that 97% of kidney transplants are working at the end of a month; 93% are working at the end of a year; and 83% are working at the end of 3 years*.
Dialysis could cost from $50,000 to $80,000 a year, Sher said, but transplanted patients only cost about $25,000 a year in treatment. However, that doesn't factor in the cost of the initial transplant surgery, Sher told MedPage Today. He did not have a cost estimate for the procedure. WASHINGTON -- Patients who have a second kidney transplant may not be as bound for failure as once thought, researchers said here.
Fifty percent of kidneys from a living donor still function after 16 to 20 years, and with organs from deceased donors, a transplanted kidney should last 8 to 10 years. A Dr. Audrey K. Chun, MD, Geriatric Medicine, answered on behalf of The Mount Sinai Health System. With the use of current immunosuppressive medications the risk of sudden kidney rejection is low, and if it occurs it can be treated very effectively. Kidney transplants last relatively long.
Even with a second transplant, graft function, length of survival, and complications were all comparable to a primary transplant. Some earlier research had shown inferior long-term outcomes when kidney patients are re-transplanted, and researchers have considered second transplants to carry high immunologic risks. WASHINGTON -- Patients who have a second kidney transplant may not be as bound for failure as once thought, researchers said here.
Although the newer generation of immunosuppressive drugs -- cyclosporin A, for example -- has improved the success rate during the initial rejection phase, the long-term survival of a functioning kidney is only around ten years because of ongoing rejection that chips away at the kidney's ability to perform adequately. A Dr. Audrey K. Chun, MD, Geriatric Medicine, answered on behalf of The Mount Sinai Health System. With the use of current immunosuppressive medications the risk of sudden kidney rejection is low, and if it occurs it can be treated very effectively. Kidney transplants last relatively long.
A kidney transplant does not last for ever. The average life-span of a transplanted kidney is ten years for a deceased donor kidney, and about 12 years for a living related transplant. The average for a living unrelated transplant is somewhere between the two. Another way of looking at how long a transplanted kidney is likely to last is to look at the percentage chance that the kidney will be working at set time points. 1  a 90% chance (eight or nine out of ten) of working one year after the operation. 2  a 60% chance (six out of ten) of lasting five years;