Limnos passenger and car ferry ticket prices, timetables, ticket reservations and information for ferries sailing from Limnos to Lesvos, Hios and Kavala, Rafina, Piraeus, Alexandroupolis and Thessaloniki. 
Limnos to Kavala Ferry. The Hellenic Seaways Limnos Kavala ferry crossing between Aegean Islands and Greece is the only service operating on this route. With crossing durations from 3 hours 20 minutes, the route is scheduled to run around 5 times per week. The Greek island of Limnos, sometimes called Lemnos, is the 8th largest island in Greece and lies in the Aegean Sea. The island's main towns are Myrina on the island's west coast and Moudros on the east coast, on the shores of a large bay in the middle of the island.
If you select to visit Limnos with the conventional. ferry your trip will take about 5-10.30 hours while. with a Highspeed ferry 3.30-7.30 hours depending. on how many ports the ferry will call at on the way. Ships and Ferries to Limnos-East Aegean Islands. Limnos and the East Aegean Islands in general are connected to the port of Piraeus. From Limnos you. can also visit the nearby Cycladic islands of Syros, Tinos, Mykonos, Andros etc.
In the “Mecca of tobacco” as Kavala was named in the past, thousands of tobacco workers earned their living. From the city's port ferries operate to Agios Efstratios, Limnos, Lavrio, Kirikos, Chios, Karlovassi, Psara, Vathi and Mytilene. The Greek island of Limnos, sometimes called Lemnos, is the 8th largest island in Greece and lies in the Aegean Sea. The island's main towns are Myrina on the island's west coast and Moudros on the east coast, on the shores of a large bay in the middle of the island.
In addition, there are ferry connection from Limnos. ferry to the island of Rhodes, and basically all East Aegean and Dodecanese Islands via a third island and. to the ports of Thessaloniki, Kavala and Alexandroupoli. Your trip to Limnos can be with a conventional ferry. boat or by Highspeed depending on the day, the. time and the ferry company you wish to travel with. Ships and Ferries to Limnos-East Aegean Islands. Limnos and the East Aegean Islands in general are connected to the port of Piraeus. From Limnos you. can also visit the nearby Cycladic islands of Syros, Tinos, Mykonos, Andros etc.
Kavala to Limnos Ferry. The Kavala Limnos ferry route connects Greece with Aegean Islands. Currently there is just the 1 ferry company operating this ferry service, Hellenic Seaways. The crossing operates up to 4 times each week with sailing durations from around 3 hours 20 minutes. The city lies on the Bay of Kavala and is just across from the Greek island of Thasos, and is roughly 160 km from Thessaloniki, 37 km from Drama and 56 km from Xanthi. The city has a rich history and there are many things to see and do whilst there
How long does it take to get from Kavala to Thassos? The ferry journey between Kavala and Thassos (Prinos) takes between 25 min and 1 h 45 min, depending on the port and the vessel you choose. So make sure to look for the ports rather than the island when you want to check the schedules or book the tickets online.
The Limnos Port. There are regular departures from the Piraeus port to the Limnos port and the journey, including stops at other islands as well, lasts about 19 hours. For a carefree journey book online your ferry tickets via aktoploika.gr. Mirina is the capital and the port of the island. There are countless beaches in Limnos. Riha Nera, Plati, Avlona, Romaikos Gialos and the port’s Gialos are near the capital. There are also several other beaches at a longer distance. Most villages of the island are proud of their stone-built manors, their alive traditions and their impressive churches.