Native Plant Definition. A Florida native plant refers to a species occurring within the state boundaries prior to European contact, according to the best available scientific and historical documentation. Weeds can be native or non-native. The term is also used to describe a group of plants characterized by a life-style pattern that includes growing rapidly, reproducing rapidly, and typically being adapted to open, high light, conditions.
Definition of terms. Non-native species. The term 'non-native species' is used throughout this website and is the equivalent of 'alien species' as used by the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). It refers to a species, subspecies or lower taxon, introduced (i.e. by human action) outside its natural past or present distribution; includes any part, gametes, seeds, eggs, or propagules of such species that might survive and subsequently reproduce.
Species that are not native to a particular area, but now have established populations in that area, are called by a variety of names. They are called introduced species, non-native species, exotic species, and sometimes invasive species. Introduced species are currently one of the primary threats to biodiversity and human economies worldwide. Non-native/Introduced species and Commensals. You may have noticed that many of North America's common, urban birds are actually not native to North America.
Non-native species can be added to a community either by natural range extensions or because they are introduced as a result of human activity. Most non-native species have harmful ecological effects; these are referred to as invasive species. Virtually all ecosystems are at risk from the harmful effects of introduced invasive species (also see exotic species, marine invasive species, and aquatic invasive species). Introduction. An invasive species is defined legally in the USA as “An alien species whose introduction does or is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to human health…‘Alien species’ means, with respect to a particular ecosystem, any species…that is not native to that ecosystem.”.
Examples. There are two types of native species, indigenous and endemic. Indigenous species are native species that are found in multiple locations, whereas endemic species are only found in a specific, unique location. We often find endemic species in geographically isolated areas such as islands. Definition. You may not be living in the same place you were born, or even the same place you grew up. But you likely still call that place 'home.' Like you, other plant and animal species may live far from where they originated. Those that do live in the same place they are originally from are called native species.
Non-native species are species that have been introduced into new areas that have not historically been part of their native range. 'Exotic,' 'alien,' 'nonindigenous,' and 'introduced' are all synonymous terms referring to non-native species. In contrast, native species are species that have historically occurred as part of an ecosystem in a specific location. Native species are also called indigenous species. Introduction is defined by Krueger and May (1991) as the transfer by humans of an organism outside its native range. Exotic species have the potential to become invasive when they are released into a new environment. Invasive nonindigenous species are those species whose introduction causes, or is likely to cause, significant economic or environmental harm. Not all non-native species become invasive when released to novel systems.
The term naturalized plant refers to a non-native species that is growing on its own in nature. It differs from native plant in that it may have originated as a garden escape, an agricultural escape, or an accidentally introduced weed. All alien invasive plants or non-native invasive species are naturalized. Weeds can be native or non-native. The term is also used to describe a group of plants characterized by a life-style pattern that includes growing rapidly, reproducing rapidly, and typically being adapted to open, high light, conditions.
Native species can be either endemic (found only within a particular region) or indigenous (found both within the region and elsewhere). Many of the native species in Hawai‘i have become endangered because of the loss of habitat and competition from introduced species. Examples: nēnē, ‘ōhi‘a, koa, pulelehua. ‘Ōhi‘a Lehua or Metrosideros polymorpha is a Hawaiian endemic plant. Forms of Metrosideros polymorpha are found in almost all Hawaiian ecosystems ranging from lowland dry shrub lands to rain forests, from high elevation bogs to dry lava flows. It grows from near sea level to 7,150 feet and is found on all the main islands except Ni‘ihau and Kaho‘olawe (Wagner 1990).