2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body cavity is a true coelom, often divided by internal septa. 4)Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus. 5)Body possesses 3 separate sections, a prosomium, a trunk and a pygidium. 6)Has a nervous system with an anterior nerve ring, ganglia and a ventral nerve chord. Only a few species of annelids are commonly known to human beings, these include the delightful Rain, Dew or Earthworms that work so hard to make our soils healthy, the Ragworms and Lugworms used by marine fishermen and the much smaller Tubifex or Red worms used by aquarists to feed their fish.
3. Body wall. Annelids have a body covered by an external cuticle that is never shed or molted. Epidermal microvilli secrete a network of fibers that are in part collagenous and also contain scleroprotein. Chaetae are also cuticular structures, but contain large amounts of chitin. 2. Nearly all annelids have a fluid-filled cavity between the outer body wall and the gut, and this is referred to as a coelom (Figure 1). The coelom is often used as a storage area for gametes and acts as a hydrostatic skeleton for locomotion.
Phylum AnnelidaSegmented WormsCharacteristics-Segmentation-Chaetae (Hairs made of Chitin- 3 Cell Layers-True Coelom-Head develops first (Protostomal) Annelida Has 3 Major Classes1. Polychaeta (Poly – keet-a) a. Poly = Many, Chaetae = hairs 2. Oligochaeta (Oligo – keet – a)a. Oligo = few 3. Hirudinea a. 
The annelids (Annelida, from Latin anellus, little ring), also known as the ringed worms or segmented worms, are a large phylum, with over 17,000 extant species including ragworms, earthworms, and leeches. The burrowing of marine polychaetes, which may constitute up to a third of all species in near-shore environments, encourages the development of ecosystems by enabling water and oxygen to penetrate the sea floor. In addition to improving soil fertility, annelids serve humans as food and as bait.
Annelida is a group commonly referred to as segmented worms, and they are found worldwide from the deepest marine sediments to the soils in our city parks and yards. Through most of the 20th century Annelida was split into three major groups; Polychaeta, Oligochaeta (earthworms etc.) and Hirudinea (leeches). Information on the Internet. 1  Annelid Resources: Another can of Worms: Phylum Annelida, polychaetes, oligochaetes, leeches, vent worms, etc. 2  A guide to information on annelids, and current worm research and researchers. 3  Geoffrey B. Read, NIWA, Wellington, NZ. 4  WormNet.
The annelids include earthworms, polychaete worms, and leeches. All members of the group are to some extent segmented, in other words, made up of segments that are formed by subdivisions that partially transect the body cavity. Segmentation is also called metamerism. 
PHYLUM ANNELIDA (segmented worms) The name “Annelida” means “little ring”, which refers to the segments that make up their bodies. As in molluscs, a fluid-filled body cavity, the coelom, is present. Earthworms, leeches, and an assortment of segmented marine worms belong to this phylum. 
13. There are no respiratory organs and the worms breathe through its moist skin. The three classes of Annelids are: Oligochaeta (earthworms); Polychaeta (sand worms); Hirudinea (leeches). Leeches are parasitic and are used by the medical profession to withdraw blood from humans in certain situations. Source(s): ATP-Man · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 5. Thumbs down. 0. 1 comment. Loading ... 2. Bilateral symmetry. 3. True body cavity (coelom) is partitioned by structures called septa. 4. The organs of the digestive, nervous, and circulatory systems penetrate the septa and run the length of the body. 5.
Annelids are all bilaterally symmetrical animals. They range in size from much less than 1 mm in length to more than 3 m. The smallest annelids described to date would appear to be Neotenotrocha (Dorvilleidae, Eunicida) reaching only a few hundred microns in length (Eibye-Jacobsen and Kristensen, 1994). 2. Nearly all annelids have a fluid-filled cavity between the outer body wall and the gut, and this is referred to as a coelom (Figure 1). The coelom is often used as a storage area for gametes and acts as a hydrostatic skeleton for locomotion.
Annelid Characteristics. The fundamental characteristic of the phylum is the division of the body into a linear series of cylindrical segments, or metameres. Each metamere consists of a section of the body wall and a compartment of the body cavity with its internal organs.