Try to include as many foods rich in magnesium in your diet as possible, and supplement the shortfall with AlgaeCal, a natural source of magnesium, calcium and many other minerals you need. Below is a list of foods that are a good source of magnesium. List of Magnesium Rich Foods. Magnesium Rich Food Sources. Green vegetables such as spinach are good sources of magnesium because the center of the chlorophyll molecule (which gives green vegetables their color) contains magnesium. Some beans, peas, nuts, seeds, and whole, unrefined grains are also good sources of magnesium. You should note that refined grains are generally low in magnesium. When white flour is processed, the magnesium rich germ and bran are removed
Basic Description. Magnesium is a key mineral in human metabolism, and found in small to medium amounts in many of the World's Healthiest Foods. Vegetables (especially green leafy ones), nuts and seeds, and legumes are your best WHFoods sources for magnesium. Among our grains, barley, buckwheat, brown rice, quinoa, and millet also rank in our top 25 magnesium foods. Although a few fruits are ranked as good sources of magnesium, you typically wouldn't turn to fruits for your magnesium, nor to dairy products nor meats.
Food. Magnesium is widely distributed in plant and animal foods and in beverages. Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains, are good sources [ 1, 3 ]. In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium. Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ]. Selected food sources of magnesium are listed in Table 2.
While there are few food sources that are strikingly high in magnesium content, a large number of foods contain relevant amounts of this important mineral. In fact, almost half of our World's Healthiest Foods are rated as good, very good, or excellent sources of magnesium. Among our grains, barley, buckwheat, brown rice, quinoa, and millet also rank in our top 25 magnesium foods. Although a few fruits are ranked as good sources of magnesium, you typically wouldn't turn to fruits for your magnesium, nor to dairy products nor meats.
Print. The sources of magnesium include food, water, and supplements. While clearly a “good” source of magnesium is one that is readily available and easily absorbed, most experts recommend a combination of sources, taking advantage of both dietary magnesium and absorbable magnesium supplements. Traditionally, foods highest in magnesium content are green vegetables, whole grain cereals, nuts and beans, and seafood. According to USDA food charts (see a complete chart of magnesium rich foods), the five foods with the highest magnesium per typical serving are: 1  Halibut. 2  Mackeral. 3  Boiled spinach. 4  Bran breakfast cereal.
Green leafy vegetables, especially spinach, are a good source of magnesium. Supplementing our diet with an adequate quantity of natural sources of magnesium will prevent being prone to diseases such as asthma, diabetes, and osteoporosis. Broccoli is another good food source of magnesium. Among nuts, almonds, cashews, and peanuts are good sources of both potassium and magnesium. Among cereals, barley, oat bran, and brown rice help the body get an adequate amount of magnesium. Similarly, whole wheat grain when not refined, is also a natural source of magnesium in food.
It's not that these foods are good magnesium sources, just that we eat (or drink) a lot of them. Diets rich in green leafy vegetables, legumes, nuts, and seeds —and to a lesser extent, whole grains —would be the best way for you to limit your risk of having magnesium deficiency. Among our grains, barley, buckwheat, brown rice, quinoa, and millet also rank in our top 25 magnesium foods. Although a few fruits are ranked as good sources of magnesium, you typically wouldn't turn to fruits for your magnesium, nor to dairy products nor meats.
FastFeatures. Many ingredients in our daily diet are good natural sources of magnesium. There are various natural sources of magnesium that also contain potassium. Leafy vegetables, cereals, milk products, nuts, legumes, and fruits are all good food sources of magnesium. Among nuts, almonds, cashews, and peanuts are good sources of both potassium and magnesium. Among cereals, barley, oat bran, and brown rice help the body get an adequate amount of magnesium. Similarly, whole wheat grain when not refined, is also a natural source of magnesium in food.