The current record for pure breath-holding is 22 minutes, set by Stig Severinson in May of last year. And you probably remember David Blaine sitting in a bubble for 17 minutes 4 seconds. That is far longer than the 30 or 40 seconds most of us can hold for, to a really phenomenal degree.
Chances are you won't need to hold your breath for 20 minutes in your lifetime, or even 5 minutes. But the capacity to improve how long you can hold it now into something that seems, on the surface, totally unrealistic remains fascinating. And you probably remember David Blaine sitting in a bubble for 17 minutes 4 seconds. That is far longer than the 30 or 40 seconds most of us can hold for, to a really phenomenal degree.
Health related question in topics Conditions Illness Biology .We found some answers as below for this question How long can an average person hold their breath,you can compare them. The current record for holding breath underwater is 8 minutes, 58 seconds. The average person can hold it a lot less. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-can-an-average-person-hold-their-breath ]. More Answers to  How long can an average person hold their breath . 
The average person can hold there breath for about 30 to 40 seconds, not that long uh. How long can the average person hold his breath? The average time is around 30 - 40 seconds, but many people can hold it for longer and shorter amounts of time.
The ability of an average person to hold their breath in water colder than 60 degrees Fahrenheit is in the range of 15 to 25 seconds, approximately one-third of normal. It has been further reported that a person in water at 41 degrees Fahrenheit was reduced from 45 to 9.5 seconds. 
On an average, a person can hold his or her breath underwater for a very short period of time that is approximately between 45 seconds and 75 seconds (or one minute and fifteen seconds). If the temperature of the water is less than 60 degrees Fahrenheit, the person can hold his or her breath for only as third of the average time that is for duration of between 15 seconds and 45 seconds.
Indeed, the average person can’t hold their breath for more than 30 seconds or so — and even someone in excellent health is gasping by two minutes. Sietas pictured at the start (left) and finish (right) of the new breath-holding record of 18 minutes and 16 seconds in a water tank. It is fascinating to note that humans can hold their breath for twice as long underwater as they can on land with their mouth and nose closed (the record stands at around ten minutes).
Answer by Tbones1119. Confidence votes 69. The average person can hold there breath for about 30 to 40 seconds, not that long uh. But some people mainly free divers who have been diving for a long period of time their lungs and heart have expanded and got used to holding their breath for longer times. How long can the average person hold his breath? The average time is around 30 - 40 seconds, but many people can hold it for longer and shorter amounts of time.
Answers. Best Answer: People tend to hold their breath for a longer period of time when they are underwater then they do when they are on land. The current world record for breathing underwater stands at a mere two seconds short of nine minutes, that is at eight minutes and 58 seconds. If the temperature of the water is less than 60 degrees Fahrenheit, the person can hold his or her breath for only as third of the average time that is for duration of between 15 seconds and 45 seconds.