Fables by Aesop View in context. Then there is the story of the Pied Piper of Hamelin, how first he piped the rats away, and afterward, when the mayor broke faith with him, drew all the children along with him and went into the mountain. pied 1. adj. Patchy in color; splotched or piebald.
Adj. 1. pied-having sections or patches colored differently and usually brightly; a jester dressed in motley; the painted desert; a particolored dress; a piebald horse; pied daisies. The origin of the word lends to it meaning black and white. It comes from Middle English, pie being used for magpie, which has black and white colouring. Pied wouldn't inherently be symmetrical, but since the word is describing the clothing of the Piper, it's not all that far-fetched that his clothes would be
noun. 1  Also called : : the Pied Piper of Hamelin (in German legend) a piper who rid the town of Hamelin of rats by luring them away with his music and then, when he was not paid for his services, lured away its children. Example Sentences Including 'Pied Piper'. From Flensburg I went to Hamelin, the Pied Piper town, still trying to root out war criminals. No chance of her mistaking anyone else for the Pied Piper, though. Other travellers were like the Pied Piper or the UN turning up with a lorry-load of aid.
Decorated or colored in blotches. he Pied Piper of Hamelin is a legend about the abduction of many children from the town of Hamelin (Hameln), Germany. Famous versions of the legend are given by the Brothers Grimm and, in English, by Robert Browning. 
Pied Piper. 1  Also called : : the Pied Piper of Hamelin (in German legend) a piper who rid the town of Hamelin of rats by luring them away with his music and then, when he was not paid for his services, lured away its children. Example Sentences Including 'Pied Piper'. From Flensburg I went to Hamelin, the Pied Piper town, still trying to root out war criminals. No chance of her mistaking anyone else for the Pied Piper, though. Other travellers were like the Pied Piper or the UN turning up with a lorry-load of aid.
Fables by Aesop View in context. Then there is the story of the Pied Piper of Hamelin, how first he piped the rats away, and afterward, when the mayor broke faith with him, drew all the children along with him and went into the mountain. Idle Thoughts of an Idle Fellow by Jerome, Jerome K. View in context.
Pied′ Pip′er. 1. the hero of a German folk legend, popularized in The Pied Piper of Hamelin (1842) by Robert Browning, who charms the city's rats into a river with his magical pipe-playing. 2. (sometimes l.c. ) a person who induces others to follow or imitate him or her. 
Then there is the story of the Pied Piper of Hamelin, how first he piped the rats away, and afterward, when the mayor broke faith with him, drew all the children along with him and went into the mountain. Idle Thoughts of an Idle Fellow by Jerome, Jerome K. View in context. 
1 Also called : : the Pied Piper of Hamelin (in German legend) a piper who rid the town of Hamelin of rats by luring them away with his music and then, when he was not paid for his services, lured away its children. ( 2 sometimes not capitals) a person who entices others to follow him. Example Sentences Including 'Pied Piper'. From Flensburg I went to Hamelin, the Pied Piper town, still trying to root out war criminals. No chance of her mistaking anyone else for the Pied Piper, though. Other travellers were like the Pied Piper or the UN turning up with a lorry-load of aid.