Schematic of the cell cycle. outer ring: I = Interphase, M = Mitosis; inner ring: M = Mitosis, G 1 = Gap 1, G 2 = Gap 2, S = Synthesis; not in ring: G 0 = Gap 0/Resting. In prokaryotes which lack a cell nucleus, the cell cycle occurs via a process termed binary fission. In cells with a nucleus, as in eukaryotes, the cell cycle can be divided into three periods: interphase, the mitotic (M) phase, and cytokinesis.
The eukaryotic cell cycle includes four phases necessary for proper growth and division. As a cell moves through each phase, it also passes through several checkpoints. These checkpoints ensure that mitosis occurs only when environmental conditions are favorable and the cellular genome has been precisely replicated. Cells typically spend far more time in interphase than they do in mitosis. Of the four phases, G 1 is most variable in terms of duration, although it is often the longest portion of the cell cycle (Figure 1). Figure 1: The eukaryotic cell cycle. © 2013 Nature Education All rights reserved.
Together, the G 1, S, and G 2 phases make up the period known as interphase. Cells typically spend far more time in interphase than they do in mitosis. Of the four phases, G 1 is most variable in terms of duration, although it is often the longest portion of the cell cycle (Figure 1). Figure 1: The eukaryotic cell cycle. © 2013 Nature Education All rights reserved.
Cell Cycle-order of events from birth to division of a cell Interphase-cell spends most time here-G1 phase (growth) - S Phase (DNA replication) - G2 (more growth) Mitotic Phase-Mitosis-Cytokinesis-It is important to time cell growth and division because some cells need to divide quicker than others. 
The cell cycle or cell-division cycle is the series of events that take place in a cell leading to its division and duplication (replication) that produces two daughter cells. In prokaryotes which lack a cell nucleus, the cell cycle occurs via a process termed binary fission. In cells with a nucleus, as in eukaryotes, the cell cycle can be divided into three periods: interphase, the mitotic (M) phase, and cytokinesis. During interphase, the cell grows, accumulating nutrients needed for mitosis, preparing it for cell division and duplicating its DNA
The cell cycle is the complex sequence of events by which cells grow and divide. In eukaryotic cells, this process includes a series of four distinct phases. These phases consist of the Mitosis phase (M), Gap 1 phase (G 1), Synthesis phase (S), and Gap 2 phase (G 2) . The G 1, S, and G 2 phases of the cell cycle are collectively referred to as interphase.
Whether the cell was eukaryotic or prokaryotic, these basic events must occur. Cytokinesis is the process where one cell splits off from its sister cell. It usually occurs after cell division. The Cell Cycle is the sequence of growth, DNA replication, growth and cell division that all cells go through. Beginning after cytokinesis, the daughter cells are quite small and low on ATP. They acquire ATP and increase in size during the G1 phase of Interphase
Introducing the Cell Cycle. The eukaryotic cell cycle is divided into four phases, designated G 1, S, G 2, and M respectively (see the figure to the right). Collectively, the G 1, S, and G 2 phases are referred to as interphase (designated I in the figure), and take up approximately 90% of the cell's lifespan. 
The cell cycle. Actively dividing eukaryote cells pass through a series of stages known collectively as the cell cycle: two gap phases (G1 and G2); an S (for synthesis) phase, in which the genetic material is duplicated; and an M phase, in which mitosis partitions the genetic material and the cell divides. 1  G1 phase. Mitosis. Mitosis is a form of eukaryotic cell division that produces two daughter cells with the same genetic component as the parent cell. Chromosomes replicated during the S phase are divided in such a way as to ensure that each daughter cell receives a copy of every chromosome.
In eukaryotes, the cell cycle consists of four discrete phases: G 1, S, G 2, and M. The S or synthesis phase is when DNA replication occurs, and the M or mitosis phase is when the cell actually divides. The other two phases — G 1 and G 2, the so-called gap phases — are less dramatic but equally important. Cells typically spend far more time in interphase than they do in mitosis. Of the four phases, G 1 is most variable in terms of duration, although it is often the longest portion of the cell cycle (Figure 1). Figure 1: The eukaryotic cell cycle. © 2013 Nature Education All rights reserved.