Mount Everest. When measuring mountain summits by their height above sea level, Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the world. Standing at 29,035 feet (8,850 meters) it reigns over the eight-thousanders club, a list that consists of the 14 mountains on Earth that are at least 8,000 meters tall. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Mezappy8. Confidence votes 281. The Himalayan mountain range in Asia has the 10 highest peaks in the world. Seven are in Nepal, 2 are in Pakistan, and one, Mt. Everest, is on the border of Nepal and China and is the highest peak in the world. The world's highest mountain range is the Himalayas. It is located in Asia. The tallest mountain in the world (above sea level) is Mount Everest, which is located in the Himal … ayas. 6 people found this useful.
The Zagros are the largest mountain range in Iran and Iraq spaning the whole length of the western and southwestern Iranian plateau and ending at the Strait of Hormuz. The highest point is Zard Kuhbakhtiari at 4,548 m, (14,921 ft). Altay (or Altai). The Altay Mountains are a mountain range in East-Central Asia, where Russia, China, Mongolia and Kazakhstan come together, and where the rivers Irtysh and Ob have their sources. Belukha Mountain is the highest peak at 4,506 m, (14,784 ft).
The Alps includes several hundred peaks and glaciers, including numerous peaks over 12,000 feet, with Mont Blanc highest at 15,771 feet. Andes. The Andes are the second highest Mountain Range in the world with many peaks rising over 20,000 feet. The Andes Mountains are the longest mountain range in the world. They stretch 4,500 miles (7,200 km) from north to south, along the west coast of the continent. The Himalayas are the great mountain system of Asia. They form a 1,500 mile broad crescent through Northeastern Pakistan, Northern India, Southern Tibet, Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan. The Himalayas is one of the youngest mountain ranges
The following list shows the largest mountain ranges in the world such as Andes in South America, Rocky Mountains in North. See the full list in the video. 1  Travel & Events. 
What is the largest mountain range in the world? Himalayan mountain range in Asia   The Andes Mountains, which stretch more than 5000 miles through seven South American countries, form the longest mountain range in the w … orld.   The Andes which are located between Chili and Argentina. The Great Dividing Range is by far the largest mountain range in Australia, stretching over 2000 km north to south along the east coast. The highest part of the Great … Dividing Range is situated in the southern part of New South Wales near the border with Victori
The Himalayas, a huge mountain range immediately at the north of the Indian subcontinent, is the world's highest mountain range, and home to the world's highest peaks, including Mount Everest at 8,848 m (29,029 ft), and K2 at 8,611 m (28,251 feet) above sea level. Altay (or Altai). The Altay Mountains are a mountain range in East-Central Asia, where Russia, China, Mongolia and Kazakhstan come together, and where the rivers Irtysh and Ob have their sources. Belukha Mountain is the highest peak at 4,506 m, (14,784 ft).
If you are asking about the largest/longest mountain range in the world, that would be the Andes (complete: Cordillera de los Andes), which stretches the whole length of the western coast of South America. For the highest mountain range, that would be the Himalayas, which is located in Asia (of course, Mt. Everest is located here). However, if you would ask for the longest mountain range in the earth's surface, that would be the mid-oceanic ridges that run across the middle of the world's major oceans