The Candy Man Can ) is a song which originally appeared in the 1971 film Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory. It was written by Leslie Bricusse and Anthony Newley specifically for the film. Although the original book by Roald Dahl (Charlie and the Chocolate Factory) contains lyrics adapted for other songs in the film, the lyrics to The Candy Man do not appear in the book. The soundtrack version of the song was sung by Aubrey Woods, who played Bill the candy store owner in the film.
The earliest chart hit of Candy Man was by Roy Orbison in 1961. Below is an extract from an intervi … ew with Chris DuBois...... Chris Stapleton, Jace Everett and I got together to write something for Jace's first project on Sony. Your Man came about from that. Jace had this little melody for the chorus in the early 80's Don Williams vein.
This song was recorded by Roy Orbison and his band, The Candymen. The Instrumentation of the song is two guitars, two harmonicas, a bass guitar, a set of drums, backing vocals (female) and Roy's lead vocals. It was the first hit song written by Neil, who had a rather interesting career as a singer and songwriter in the folk community. Neil kept a low profile, but had many famous admirers including David Crosby, Jimmy Buffett and Tim Buckley.
It is recognized as one of Davis's signature songs, and The Candy Man came to be his moniker later in his career. In the 1980s the tune was adapted as a commercial jingle (The Sunshine Baker Man, sung by Davis) for Sunshine Biscuits. The soundtrack version of the song was sung by Aubrey Woods, who played Bill the candy store owner in the film.
Answer Your Man was written by Chris DuBois, Jace Everett and Chris Stapleton, and has only been commercially recorded by Josh Turner. Below is an extract from an intervi … ew with Chris DuBois...... Chris Stapleton, Jace Everett and I got together to write something for Jace's first project on Sony. Your Man came about from that. Jace had this little melody for the chorus in the early 80's Don Williams vein.
Candyman  is a song recorded by American singer and songwriter Christina Aguilera for her fifth studio album, Back to Basics (2006). According to Aguilera and Perry, the song was inspired by the Andrews Sisters ' 1941 hit  Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy . Originally, Candyman was planned to be released as the second single from Back to Basics in late 2006.
The song was written by Aguilera and Linda Perry and produced by Perry. Candyman was planned to be released as the second single from the album, but RCA Records decided to release  Hurt  instead. Subsequently, the track was released on February 20, 2007 as the third single from Back to Basics. According to Aguilera and Perry, the song was inspired by the Andrews Sisters ' 1941 hit  Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy . Originally, Candyman was planned to be released as the second single from Back to Basics in late 2006.
Candyman was written by Aguilera and Linda Perry, with production by Perry. Perry and Aguilera revealed with MTV News that the song was a tribute to The Andrews Sisters' 1941 hit  Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy . According to Aguilera and Perry, the song was inspired by the Andrews Sisters ' 1941 hit  Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy . Originally, Candyman was planned to be released as the second single from Back to Basics in late 2006.