Falcon Stadium is centrally located on the Air Force Academy campus. The closest hotels to the stadium are located on the southeast side of the campus near I-25. We also have a guide to places to stay near the NFL Atlanta Falcon's stadium, the Georgia Dome. Cheap hotel near Air Force Academy 3 floors, 84 rooms-elevator. Map of hotel and Falcon Stadium. Pet-friendly hotel. Free continental breakfast-Free Internet in room. Most Recent Guest Review. Nice hotel room, and the front desk clerk was pleasant.
The stadium, which was built in a natural bowl, has a capacity of 46,692 and stands in the base of the Rampart Range of the Rocky Mountains. Falcon Stadium opened on Sept. 22, 1962, when a then-overflow crowd of 41,350 saw Air Force defeat Colorado State, 24-0. AFA held a formal dedication on Oct. 20, 1962, when Air Force hosted Oregon. The Ducks won the game, 35-20. The facility now seats 450 people indoors, along with 88 in the skyboxes. In addition to its game-day uses, the press box is also used by the athletic department as a banquet/meeting room. Falcon Stadium was built in the fall of 1962 at a cost of $3.5 million.
Falcon Stadium is an outdoor football stadium on the campus of the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. It is the home field of the Air Force Falcons of the Mountain West Conference. It also serves as the site for the academy's graduation ceremonies each spring. Falcon Stadium was built into a natural bowl southeast of the center of the academic campus (and 500 feet (150 m) below). As with the rest of the campus, Falcon Stadium lies at the base of the Rampart Range of the Rocky Mountains.
Falcon Stadium. Newcomers to Falcon Stadium will see it as one of the premier college football stadiums in America. Falcon football veterans, on the other hand, may not recognize the old stomping grounds. Prior to the 2006 season, FieldTurf was installed at a cost of $750,000. The facility now seats 450 people indoors, along with 88 in the skyboxes. In addition to its game-day uses, the press box is also used by the athletic department as a banquet/meeting room. Falcon Stadium was built in the fall of 1962 at a cost of $3.5 million.
Falcon Stadium opened in 1962, at a cost of $3.5 million, and has a current seating capacity of 46,692. The first game was on September 22, 1962, when Air Force Falcons defeated Colorado State 24–0. Falcon Stadium was built into a natural bowl southeast of the center of the academic campus (and 500 feet (150 m) below). As with the rest of the campus, Falcon Stadium lies at the base of the Rampart Range of the Rocky Mountains.
Drury Inn And Suites Colorado Springs. Located 1.9 miles from Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium. More Hotel Information and Book Reservations. Map the Distance Between Drury Inn And Suites Colorado Springs and Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium. Super 8 Colorado Springs/Afa Area. Located 3.9 miles from Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium. More Hotel Information and Book Reservations. Map the Distance Between Super 8 Colorado Springs/Afa Area and Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium.
Hotels near Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium. Find hotels near Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium in Colorado Springs CO on Hotels-Rates.com. Many of these Colorado Springs hotels are within a short distance of Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium. 1-25 of 75 Hotels within 14.0 miles of Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium. Hotels closest to Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium are listed first. Super 8 Colorado Springs/Afa Area. Located 3.9 miles from Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium. More Hotel Information and Book Reservations. Map the Distance Between Super 8 Colorado Springs/Afa Area and Air Force Falcons Football-Falcon Stadium.