Assuming that an average annualized workstation cost to a business is approximately $18,000, this will total 104 days that this particular employee's work station will remain vacant. The average number of possible working days of the typical employee for an entire year is 242 days. While office workstations are necessary for in-house employees and managers to complete daily tasks, these spaces can prove costly when such workstations are left vacant. These 'workplace pockets' can negatively affect the bottom line for businesses, making it crucial to manage space effectively.
This breaks down to nearly $183 / hr. When the server goes down for a couple of hours and none of the employees can access network resources, this costs $366 plus the cost of the computer guys scrambling to fix the issue. If the business is down for an entire day, the cost is over $1,460 plus, plus, plus. If during a typical hour at work their workstation is a little slow (causing them to “wait” a couple of minutes) this translates to 16 minutes each day or 1 hour and 20 minutes over the course of the week.
1 Cyber crimes continue to be very costly: The average annualized cost of cyber crime incurred was $12.7 million, with a range of $1.6 million to $61 million; an increase of 9 percent or $1.1 million over the average cost reported in 2013. Key findings from the 2014 Cost of Cyber Crime Study. 1  Cyber crimes continue to be very costly: The average annualized cost of cyber crime incurred was $12.7 million, with a range of $1.6 million to $61 million; an increase of 9 percent or $1.1 million over the average cost reported in 2013. ( 2 2).
One of the first benefits associated with cloud-based solutions, over in-house treasury workstations, is the cost savings. With a SaaS option there is no need to purchase hardware, or use overstretched IT personnel for ongoing support. 
To adjust the average cost of a particular security, open the Account Window within the Trader Workstation and scroll down to the Portfolio section. Select the asset in question from the Portfolio section and right click on it to display the drop-down window and the Adjust Average Price menu option. 
For helpdesk, you’ll find packages ranging on average from $60 to $85 per workstation per month, with the higher-cost options generally including 24/7 user support. In a lot of cases, smaller providers will fall on the lower end of the pricing scale in order to stay competitive. 
Despite the cost and implementation hassles associated with a treasury workstation, it is still an appealing solution for many larger organizations. In general, it can be used to automate many of the more clerical tasks. More specifically, a treasury workstation can take over the following functions: 1  Accounting. A treasury workstation is a task-specific software solution that may also be designed for a specific type of computer hardware. The treasury workstation is designed to handle the cash tracking, investment, and risk analysis chores of a business.
How much does a workstation cost to run per annum? This tool allows you to calculate the approximate annualised cost (rents, rates, service charge) of a workstation. Refresh page (F5) to reset tool. All information obtained from this website should be checked with the relevant government legislation and regulations. workplace tools shall not be held liable for any special or consequential damages as result from the use of, or the inability to use, the materials on this website.
The study also gives a glimpse into the potential future price development of coworking spaces. San Francisco provides an interesting case study. There, the cost of a full-time desk in a coworking space ($428) is closer to the average cost in a regular office ($505). Despite this, demand for coworking spaces in San Francisco remains strong, showing that coworking has much more to offer than just a price advantage. 