WebMD Health News. May 30, 2003 -- For people with lactose intolerance, a yogurt-like drink called kefir could put dairy in their diet again. Lactose intolerance is a very common digestive problem caused by too little of an enzyme called lactase, which the body needs to digest lactose -- milk sugar.
Historically, kefir has been prepared using the milk from sheep, goats, and cows, although soy milk kefirs are now commercially available, he explains. Like yogurt, which is made from fermented milk, kefir contains lots of bacteria that aid lactose digestion. Yogurt doesn't produce symptoms of lactose intolerance because these bacteria help digest the lactose. However, kefir has a broader range of nutrients than does yogurt, he says.
And so, kefir drink is fermented milk that is rich with probiotics, yeast, enzymes, sugar, calcium, proteins, phosphorous, minerals, and vitamins. In other words, kefir grains have munched and digested the lactose in milk on behalf of people who are suffering from lactose intolerance. Instead of indigestible lactose, milk kefir contains friendly probiotics. Kefir grains are referred to as “ Grains from the Prophet “. Apparently, the Prophet Mohammad visited a monastery in Tibet and handed out real kefir grains.
Kefir might be a better option than yogurt for some lactose-intolerant people, Hertzler says. Though both kefir and yogurt are good sources of calcium, potassium, and protein, kefir also contains a wider array of digestion-boosting bacteria.
Kefir is made from cow’s milk and contains lactose, but some of the lactose is naturally digested by the live cultures used to produce it. If you have a minor to moderate case of lactose intolerance, you may be able to drink kefir without developing any symptoms.
To create our lactose-free Green Valley Organics yogurt, kefir, sour cream and cream cheese, we add the enzyme lactase. People that are lactose intolerant do not produce this enzyme and therefore cannot digest the milk sugar, lactose, in dairy.