1 If you rev your engine and the car hesitates before accelerating, it can mean your clutch isn't delivering the boost in RPM through the transmission to the drive wheels. 2  Change in the clutch pedal height where the driver feels the clutch begin to engage. See if it takes more RPMs from the engine to achieve a certain speed. This can also be an indicator your car needs a clutch replacement. 1  While driving down the road in 3rd gear, put the car in 2nd gear, then let out the clutch. 2  If the RPMs of the engine don't immediately go up, it may be time to replace the clutch
1 While driving down the road in 3rd gear, put the car in 2nd gear, then let out the clutch. 2  If the RPMs of the engine don't immediately go up, it may be time to replace the clutch. 3  Another way to establish if your clutch needs repair is to test it in a parking lot. See if it takes more RPMs from the engine to achieve a certain speed. This can also be an indicator your car needs a clutch replacement. 1  While driving down the road in 3rd gear, put the car in 2nd gear, then let out the clutch. 2  If the RPMs of the engine don't immediately go up, it may be time to replace the clutch
Also, I guess if your just slowing down and not stopping if you depress the clutch you'll have to let it out again and if you don't match the engine revs with the speed of the car, your clutch and transmission will take some undue wear as the clutch is re-engaged. Written 20 Nov, 2010 • View Upvotes. 24.9k Views. It probably doesn't do any harm to your car mechanically, BUT depressing the clutch while slowing down disengages the engine and drivetrain so you lose the benefit of engine braking which may contribute to earlier brake wear.
When a car is in first gear, small variations in engine speed translate to large changes in acceleration and engine braking. However, with a combination of clutch control and careful use of engine speed, a much smoother ride can be achieved by allowing the clutch to slip. 
To start the vehicle, make sure the car is in first gear, push down the clutch, and turn the ignition key. Slowly drive forward when the car starts, releasing the clutch while simultaneously pressing the gas pedal. Whatever you do, don’t accelerate too fast. When the RPM gauge reads more than 3,000, or you’re going roughly 15 mph, press down on the clutch and shift from first to second gear. Here’s the golden rule of manual transmissions: shifting begins with the clutch but ends with the gas pedal. Drivers should always have a foot on the gas or clutch, except when the car is in neutral, then it will run without the gas pedal or having to hold down the clutch.
Automatic: Car shifts into gear with a clunk when you release pressure off the throttle pedal. Firm downshift while passing. Down shifting is fine when you suddenly accelerate to pass, but the down shift should not feel overly abrupt. Call to schedule an appointment (408) 492-8980. 
Rev matching. Rev matching is a technique used to prevent unnecessary weight transfer during down-changes in a manual transmission car. For a demonstration of why this concept is useful, select third gear and accelerate to about 3000rpm, then quickly select second and release the clutch fairly rapidly. 
@SeanReifschneider I had another thought, it might be if this is only happening in 5th gear that it is probably the transmission and not the clutch. My father's car had the 5th gear get 'spun out', where the 5th gear was worn down compared to the rest of the gears causing slippage. You can usually tell by gradually applying the gas in the top gear, probably around 2,500 RPM, and the car should accelerate a little bit, but at some point as you press the gas further and further down, you will feel it release and the revolutions will shoot way up without road speed increasing.
A clutch is two metal plates in the engine. When you press the clutch pedal down the plates come apart separating the engine from the drive wheels allowing you to change gear. Bringing the pedal back up re-engages the plates which in turn connect the engine to the drive wheels. 