Calcium bentonite also called calcium montmorillonite is used for detox purposes whereas sodium bentonite is used for industrial purposes. 2. Take one tablespoon of liquid bentonite first thing in the morning or at least two hours before food. Drink 1/2 or 1 glass of water to aid bowel movements. Bentonite is a clay formed from volcanic ash and water. It is a phyllosilicate which has high absorbing powers. You can buy it as a powder or as a liquid. I am not talking about sodium bentonite, which is mainly used in industries. I am talking about the edible calcium bentonite clay
Bentonite clay works in various ways on the entire body system. It is not only one of the best natural detox tool, it is also rich in essential trace minerals. They are vital for good health. Bentonite can be taken orally or as a bath or poultice. It is a safe, inexpensive, easy and natural agent for purifying the body. Bentonite clay has a long history. Hippocrates (460 B.C.-377), the father of medicine already used clay to treat people with poisoning. It is well researched in its healing and detoxing abilites.
Calcium Bentonite clay is the natural detoxing agent that can be used internally, externally with poultices and full body applications, and by taking detox clay baths [read Clay Baths: The Safe Method for Detoxing Your System (www.ABOUTCLAY.com)]. Calcium Bentonite Clay is one of the safest, easiest, and least expensive detoxing substances available today. Clay is a non-evasive treatment, and when it is properly used, clay treatments cause no harm.
Calcium Bentonite, also called Calcium Montmorillonite. They contain more Calcium them Sodium. It is the rarest of Smectites. Natural Calcium Bentonite that is a green clay, is well-known for its healing and curative powers because of its high adsorption and absorption powers. It can be used for external use. Bentonite is from the family of clay called Smectite. The other family of clays are Kaolin clays, Ilite clays, Vermiculite clays, Chlorite clays, Iron oxyhydroxides and Allophane. A characteristic of Smectites is that they can absorb and adsorb extremely well compared to the other six types of clay.
“Bentonite, also referred to as Montmorillonite, is one of the most effective and powerful healing clays. Bentonite can be used externally as a clay poultice, mud pack or in the bath and, in skin care recipes. A good quality Bentonite should be a grey/cream color and anything bordering “pure white” is suspect. 1 I mix 1/2 teaspoon of clay in 1/4 cup water in a small jar with a plastic lid and shake well. 2  Then, I rinse with the water for 1-2 minutes and repeat until I’ve used it all. 3  For Mastitis: I’ve created a poultice or mask of Bentonite Clay and water and applied externally to the area.
Using Bentonite Clay. Bentonite clay is powerful and effective. The clay can be used as a facial mask by mixing 1 tablespoon bentonite clay with 1 tablespoon of water. For internal cleansing purposes, mix 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of clay in water and consume. You can gradually work your way up to 2 or 3 teaspoons, but be sure to speak with your doctor while increasing your intake. Bentonite clay has been traditionally used to promote internal cleansing and has become a popular ingredient in a number of detoxification programs. Many people have used bentonite clay to address symptoms of constipation, like bloating and gas.
So how does something as simple as a bentonite clay detox help with the detoxification process, eliminate toxins and keep us healthy? It has to do with how the clay travels through our digestive tracts. Many types of toxins can be eliminated with bentonite clay. By taking advantage of this method of detoxification you will help rid your body of free radicals, pesticides, herbicides, and even internal parasites and pathogenic viruses.
There are two main types of Bentonite clay. Sodium Bentonite Clay and Calcium Bentonite Clay. There are also Potassium Bentonite and Aluminium Bentonite too, but they are not considered here. Lets look at each Calcium and Sodium Bentonites, and decide which is the best for body cleansing. Bentonite is from the family of clay called Smectite. The other family of clays are Kaolin clays, Ilite clays, Vermiculite clays, Chlorite clays, Iron oxyhydroxides and Allophane. A characteristic of Smectites is that they can absorb and adsorb extremely well compared to the other six types of clay.