Describe the structure of the arteries, veins and capillaries and relate this to their function. figure 7. Arteries. Arteries transport blood away from the heart; there are two types the pulmonary arteries and systemic arteries. Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs where the blood picks up oxygen. Systemic arteries deliver blood to the rest of the body
Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins). The primary function of capillaries is the exchange of materials between the blood and tissue cells. 
Best Answer: Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood away from the heart. Exceptions to this include the pulmonary and umbilical arteries. Capillaries are the smallest of a body's blood vessels and are part of the microcirculation. They are only 1 cell thick. Arteries are muscular blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood away from the heart (except the pulmonary and umbilical arteries). Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood at high pressure, so they are tough on the outside and smooth on the inside.
There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart. 
Structure and Function of Arteries, Capillaries, and Veins. The walls of arteries and veins have three layers or tunics: 1  An outer layer (tunica adventitia) of connective tissue with collagen fibers. 2  A middle layer (tunica media) of circularly arranged smooth muscle and elastic fibers. 
# 71 Arteries, veins and capillaries-structure and functions. There are 3 main kinds of blood vessels – arteries, veins and capillaries. 1  Arteries carry blood away from the heart. 2  They divide again and again, and eventually form very tiny vessels called capillaries. As blood enters capillaries from arterioles (small arteries), it slows down. This allows substances in the plasma, as well as O2 from red blood cells, to diffuse through the capillary wall into the surrounding tissues (the capillary wall is thin and permeable). Liquid in the plasma also passes out.
Structure and Function: The Blood Vessels. The cardiovascular system includes three types of blood vessel: arteries, veins, and capillaries. Placed end to end, they would circle the Earth nearly four times. The smallest vessels, the capillaries, make up 98 per cent of this length. 
Veins carry oxygen depleted blood back to your heart. Capillaries are very small veins or arteries. They are small enough that the oxygen can diffuse across the capillary wall into the tissue, and the carbon dioxide can diffuse from the tissue back into the blood. Capillaries are the structure where this gas exchange takes place. Arteries are muscular blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood away from the heart (except the pulmonary and umbilical arteries). Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood at high pressure, so they are tough on the outside and smooth on the inside.
Plan of the main blood vessels in the human body. The comparison of blood vessels structure and functions. The transfer of materials between capillaries and tissue fluid. As blood enters capillaries from arterioles (small arteries), it slows down. This allows substances in the plasma, as well as O2 from red blood cells, to diffuse through the capillary wall into the surrounding tissues (the capillary wall is thin and permeable). Liquid in the plasma also passes out.
There are 3 main kinds of blood vessels – arteries, veins and capillaries. 1  Arteries carry blood away from the heart. 2  The capillaries gradually join up with one another to form large vessels called veins. 3  Veins carry blood towards the heart. As blood enters capillaries from arterioles (small arteries), it slows down. This allows substances in the plasma, as well as O2 from red blood cells, to diffuse through the capillary wall into the surrounding tissues (the capillary wall is thin and permeable). Liquid in the plasma also passes out.