Smoking meat is exactly what the name implies: flavoring meat with smoke. Using any kind of improvised device will do the job as long as the smokehouse is made from environmentally safe material. As long as smoke contacts the meat surface it will impart its flavor to the meat. The strength of the flavor depends mainly on the time and density of the smoke. Smoked meats are usually eaten cold at a later date.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Montreal-style smoked meat, Montreal smoked meat or simply smoked meat in Montreal (French: smoked meat; sometimes viande fumee), fumée is a type of-kosher style deli meat product made by salting and curing beef brisket with. spices Warm Montreal smoked meat is always sliced by hand to maintain its form, since doing so with a meat slicer would cause the tender meat to disintegrate. Whole briskets are kept steaming and sliced up on demand when ordered in the restaurant to maintain its temperature.
Schwartz's begins their smoked meat by marinating raw brisket with a secret blend of spices for 10 to 12 days. They smoke the brisket for eight to nine hours and steam them for another three before slicing them by hand and serving them on rye bread with mustard. The way Sax sees it, the main differences between pastrami and smoked meat come down to the cut of beef and the spice rub it's coated with. Pastrami in the United States is almost always made with navel, a cut similar to belly, or what you would make bacon out of on a pig.
Smoking Meat. Smoking meat is exactly what the name implies: flavoring meat with smoke. Using any kind of improvised device will do the job as long as the smokehouse is made from environmentally safe material. As long as smoke contacts the meat surface it will impart its flavor to the meat. The strength of the flavor depends mainly on the time and density of the smoke. Smoked meats are usually eaten cold at a later date.
Decide to use the wet or dry smoking method. Water can be used to help control the temperature inside a smoker while the meat is cooking. In fact, some smokers are called water smokers, and they're designed to incorporate water into the process. But you can smoke using water in a charcoal or wood smoker, too. 
'W here there's smoke, there's flavor!' This is a well-known expression in the smoking meat circles. Another popular tag line is 'low and slow'. One more popular one is the 'smoke ring'. Each of these expressions say a little bit about what smoking meat is all about, tasty flavorful meat with unmatched tenderness. In this method of grilling, also called smoker cooking or smoke roasting, the heat is as far as it can be from the food. The food is cooked with indirect heat. The fire can be all the way at the bottom level with the meat at the top in a vertical setup, with a level of smoking wood and water in between
Smoked meat is a method of preparing red meat (and fish) which originates in prehistory. Its purpose is to preserve these protein-rich foods, which would otherwise spoil quickly, for long periods. Warm Montreal smoked meat is always sliced by hand in order to maintain its form since doing so with a meat slicer would cause the tender meat to disintegrate.
Smoking Meat and Poultry. Where there's smoke, there's well-flavored meat and poultry. Using a smoker is one method of imparting natural smoke flavor to large cuts of meat, whole poultry, and turkey breasts. This slow cooking technique keeps them tender, too. To ensure meat and poultry are smoked safely, you'll need two types of thermometers: one for the food and one for the smoker. A thermometer is needed to monitor the air temperature in the smoker or grill to be sure the heat stays between 225 and 300 °F throughout the cooking process.
Smoking of meat and fish has been practiced for ages. Indigenous cultures around the world may have used smoke during the drying of fish to drive away the flies. They soon found that the absorbed smoke acted as a preservative. Warm Montreal smoked meat is always sliced by hand in order to maintain its form since doing so with a meat slicer would cause the tender meat to disintegrate.
Montreal smoked meat is made with variable-fat brisket, whereas pastrami is more commonly made with the fat-marbled navel/plate cut. Montreal smoked meat is typically served in the form of a light-rye bread sandwich slathered with yellow mustard. While some Montreal smoked meat is brine-cured like corned beef, with spices applied later, many smoked meat establishments prefer dry-curing directly with salt and spices. Warm Montreal smoked meat is always sliced by hand to maintain its form, since doing so with a meat slicer would cause the tender meat to disintegrate. Whole briskets are kept steaming and sliced up on demand when ordered in the restaurant to maintain its temperature.