A waste stack carries waste disposal from all other fixtures. A vent stack provides air circulation throughout the waste system and allows for the release of sewer gases. Placement of the stack. The stack runs in the building wall, up through each floor, and out through the roof. 1 Start at the building sewer pipeline and work towards the place where stack will be installed. 2  Set the pipe to a grade slope of inch per foot with a carpenters level. 3  The slope will rise from the building sewer line to the stack. 4  Support the pipe at each connection to maintain the grade slope.
We have two waste stacks in our house. One is used as a main stack for solid waste (serving two full baths and a powder room), while the other was used for kitchen sink and laundry sink. During renovation they cut out the vent for the secondary stack (the one that serves kitchen and old laundry sink). 
In modern plumbing, a drain-waste-vent (or DWV) is part of a system that removes sewage and greywater from a building, and regulates air pressure in the waste-system pipes to aid free flow. At the building drain system's lowest point, the drain-waste vent is attached, and rises (usually inside a wall) to and out of the roof. Waste exits from the building through the building's main drain and flows through a sewage line, which leads to a septic system or a public sewer.
The Main Vent Stack. The main vent is stack is often, but not always, a continuation of the soil stack, which is a 3- or 4-inch waste pipe that extends vertically down from the uppermost bathroom to the sewer. Individual vents must rise above the overflow line of the topmost plumbing fixture in the house before you can tie it to the main vent stack. This is a precaution that prevents the vent from becoming a drain if that fixture's drain gets blocked.
Drain-waste-vent (DWV) pipes carry waste and water out of the house without gurgles or fumes. Never install or replace a DWV pipe without consulting a building inspector. These pipes must be installed according to precise specifications. Drainpipes. The centerpiece of a DWV system is the main stack, usually a pipe 3 or 4 inches in diameter that runs straight up through the roof. A secondary stack, perhaps 2 or 3 inches in diameter, serves a branch of the system.
Newest Subjects. I want to put my toilet 8 feet from the main plumbing stack with a 8 foot run of 3 PVC. right behind my toilet I have access to a 2 plumbing vent from the washmachine which is in my basement right below where I want to put the toilet. Would tapping into that vent provide any better flow? Edited 1 times.
The Waste Stack and Vent consists of pipes leading from waste pipes to the outdoors, usually through the roof. Vents provide a means to release sewer gases outside instead of inside the house. Vents also admit oxygen to the waste system. 
Sections of the stack. A combination of vertical pipes with fittings forms the stack in a plumbing waste system. It is used for waste disposal and venting. The main stack is composed of three sectionsthe soil stack, waste stack, and vent stack. A soil stack carries waste disposal from water closets. 1 Start at the building sewer pipeline and work towards the place where stack will be installed. 2  Set the pipe to a grade slope of inch per foot with a carpenters level. 3  The slope will rise from the building sewer line to the stack. 4  Support the pipe at each connection to maintain the grade slope.
DWV systems maintain neutral air pressure in the drains, allowing free flow of water and sewage down drains and through waste pipes by gravity. It is critical that a sufficient downward slope be maintained throughout, to keep liquids and entrained solids flowing freely towards the main drain from the building. At the building drain system's lowest point, the drain-waste vent is attached, and rises (usually inside a wall) to and out of the roof. Waste exits from the building through the building's main drain and flows through a sewage line, which leads to a septic system or a public sewer.