the underwriting. BGC and BBB may agree that 1 million shares of BGC common will be offered to the public at $10 per share. BBB's fee for this service will be $0.60 per share, so that BGC receives $9,400,000. BBB may ask several other firms to join in a syndicate and to help it market these shares to the public.
For example, if a fund has a 5% underwriting fee and the price of fund shares is $20 at the IPO, only $19 goes into the fund, with the remaining 5% going to the underwriters. Therefore only $19 is invested in fund assets and the NAV at that point is $19. 
Average underwriting fees in Canada range from 8.12% for IPO raisings up to US$10 million and were 5.53% for issues over US$100 million. Average underwriting fees in the US range from 9.39% for issues up to US$10 million and were 6.26% for issues over US$100 million. The total direct costs, measured as a percentage of proceeds, averaged 14.39% for Canadian firm commitment offerings while 5. they were 10.44% for the US IPOs. Underwriting Cost Literature Chen and Ritter (2000) investigate 1,111 IPOs raising between $20 million and $80 million and identify that underwriting spreads for those IPOs clustered at exactly 7%. The authors argue that this widespread “agreement” in fees by underwriters suggests pricing collusion.
In the capital markets, underwriting fees are collected by underwriters who administer the issuing and distributing of certain financial instruments. A mortgage underwriter earns underwriting fees by evaluating and verifying mortgage loan applications, and either approving or denying the loan. Insurance underwriters collect underwriting fees for identifying and calculating a policy holder's risk of loss, and by writing the policies to cover these risks.
Goldman Sachs’s fees from working on the IPO add to the money it raised by selling part of its own stake in Facebook. The New York-based bank sold 6.18 million of its 14.2 million shares, raising $235 million at the $38 IPO price. The bank still has 8.03 million shares, worth $305 million at that price. UBS AG, the only firm among the top 10 U.S. IPO underwriters this year that Facebook didn’t hire for the deal, currently has a 2 percent market share with estimated fees of $32.2 million. 
Underwriting fees are monies collected by underwriters for performing underwriting services. Underwriters work in a variety of markets including investments, mortgages and insurance. Insurance underwriters collect underwriting fees for identifying and calculating a policy holder's risk of loss, and by writing the policies to cover these risks.
The underwriters would purchase the shares from the company for a seven percent discount or $11.16 per share. They would then resell the shares to the public at $12.00 per share, yielding a gross profit of $0.84 per share or $4.2 million in the aggregate. IPO gross spreads range from four to ten percent. 
The underwriting spread is the difference between the amount paid by the underwriting group in a new issue of securities and the price at which securities are offered for sale to the public. It is the underwriter's gross profit margin, usually expressed in points per unit of sale (bond or stock). 
Total$1,123, 000. Underwriting Costs. The underwriting cost is a function of the money raised in the IPO. The NASD allow up to 18% in costs. If the gross revenue from the IPO is $10 million, this is an underwriting cost of $1.8 million. Here's how the costs breakdown. The following IPO costs would be reasonable for a company with over $2 million in gross revenues and a 3-5 year operating history. A startup company would pay less than half this estimate to do an IPO. In some cases one or both sources acknowledge a cost listed below, but fail to offer an estimate.
$12.8 Billion. Twitter’s fees are higher than those paid by Facebook Inc. because it’s a smaller offering, said two people with knowledge of the negotiations. Facebook raised $16 billion at its IPO in May 2012, paying banks 1.1 percent. Twitter hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as the lead underwriter, which typically earns a bigger cut of the deal. Globally, the average IPO fee this year is 4.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2012, IPO managers in the U.S. earned an average of 4.3 percent in fees, while globally they made 3.7 percent, the data show. Twitter Inc. is seeking to raise more than $1 billion in an initial public offering and plans to pay bankers a fee of about 3.25 percent, people with knowledge of the matter said.