1 Place the water in a medium sauce pan and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce heat to low; whisk in the beef bouillon. 3  Whisk in the soy sauce, garlic powder and salt and pepper to taste. 4  If you like a thicker Au Jus gravy, you can also whisk in a little flour to thicken it.
Directions. 1  Place the water in a medium sauce pan and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce heat to low; whisk in the beef bouillon. 3  Whisk in the soy sauce, garlic powder and salt and pepper to taste. 4  If you like a thicker Au Jus gravy, you can also whisk in a little flour to thicken it.
1 Add garlic and cook for a minute or two more. 2  Deglaze the saucepan by adding the red wine and stirring. 3  Add Worcestershire sauce and cook for another minute, stirring constantly. 4  Add beef stock, peppercorns, thyme and bay leaf (salt too, if needed) and bring to a light boil.
1 Reduce heat to low; whisk in the beef bouillon. 2  Whisk in the soy sauce, garlic powder and salt and pepper to taste. 3  If you like a thicker Au Jus gravy, you can also whisk in a little flour to thicken it.
1 Heat beef consomme and water in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat to make a rich beef broth. 2  Place the roast beef in the broth and warm for 3 minutes. 3  Arrange the meat on the hoagie rolls and top each roll with 2 slices of provolone.
Directions. 1  Combine beef base and thyme; rub over roast and place in a 5-qt. slow cooker. 2  Combine the onion, soy sauce, garlic, bay leaf and pepper; pour over roast. 3  Add water. 4  Cover and cook on low for 8-9 hours or until meat is tender.
1 Deglaze the saucepan by adding the red wine and stirring. 2  Add Worcestershire sauce and cook for another minute, stirring constantly. 3  Add beef stock, peppercorns, thyme and bay leaf (salt too, if needed) and bring to a light boil. 4  Reduce heat and simmer for about 30 minutes.
1 Open the hoagie rolls and lay out on a baking sheet. 2  Heat beef consomme and water in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat to make a rich beef broth. 3  Place the roast beef in the broth and warm for 3 minutes.