Another essential story element is the character. Character can be defined as any person, animal, or figure represented in a literary work. There are many types of characters that exist in literature, each with its own development and function. A character is any person, animal, or figure represented in a literary work. Characters are essential to a good story, and it is the main characters that have the greatest effect on the plot or are the most affected by the events of the story.
Antagonist Definition. In literature, an antagonist is a character or a group of characters which stand in opposition to the protagonist or the main character. The term antagonist comes from Greek word “ antagonistēs ” that means opponent, competitor or rival. 
Protagonist Definition. A protagonist is the central character or leading figure in poetry, narrative, novel or any other story. A protagonist is sometimes called a “hero” by the audience or readers. The word originally came from the Greek language and in Greek drama which refers to the person who led the chorus. Later on, the word started being used as a term for the first actor in order of performance.
Definition of Antagonist. In literature, an antagonist is a character, group of characters, or other force that presents an obstacle or is in direct conflict with the protagonist. The antagonist is most often one character who has a goal that opposes the protagonist’s goal and will try to stop the protagonist from getting what he or she wants. Difference Between Antagonist and Villain. The definition of antagonist states that this character or characters works in opposition to the protagonist. This does not mean, however, that the antagonist is necessarily a villain or that the antagonist’s motives are inherently evil.
Protagonist. Definition: The protagonist is the one we root for in the novel—the character whose life we're most concerned with or whose inner life we're given access to. A protagonist is often opposed by an antagonist of some sort, who keeps our main character in conflict until he triumphs over it. Or not. 
Definition of Protagonist. The protagonist is the main character of a work of literature, theater, or cinema. While the protagonist is often “the good guy” at odds with a villain or antagonist, the protagonist can also be an antihero. Whether or not the protagonist is good or evil, the audience is generally supposed to empathize with this person and understand the motivations that propel the character to do what he or she does.
Label the term and provide the example and the story which the example that you selected appears in. FOR EXAMPLE: Protagonist-The protagonist in “Miggles” is Miggles, the attractive woman who lives with her invalid partner. genre: a form or category of literature, such as epic, tragedy, comedy and satire. 
Definition. A protagonist is the main character in a work of literature or movie. With many characters surrounding the protagonist, finding that main character can sometimes be confusing. A protagonist generally experiences some sort of change or transformation in his or her character throughout the story. This is the key defining characteristic of a protagonist. Also, the story really focuses on the protagonist. He or she is not a character that shows up once or twice and then disappears
The opposite of the protagonist is the antagonist. An antagonist is a character who opposes the protagonist. In that same book series, Tris is opposed both by Eric, a sadistic trainer, and Jeanine Matthews, a cold-hearted, prejudiced scientist. A character is any person, animal, or figure represented in a literary work. Characters are essential to a good story, and it is the main characters that have the greatest effect on the plot or are the most affected by the events of the story.