Huperzine A is a substance purified from a plant called Chinese club moss. People use it as medicine. Be careful not to confuse huperzine A, which is also called selagine with similar sounding medications such as selegiline (Eldepryl). 
Huperzine A (HUP-er-zeen) is a potent chemical derived from a particular type of club moss (Huperzia serrata [Thumb] Trev.). Like caffeine and cocaine, huperzine A is a medicinally active, plant-derived chemical that belongs to the class known as alkaloids. It was first isolated in 1948 by Chinese scientists. 
Club moss is a Chinese plant that when purified results in the supplement known as Huperzine A. This natural supplement has a range of nootropic benefits and is known to improve many facets of memory function. Huperzine A is also known as selagine. It is, however, not to be confused with other medications with similar names, most namely selegiline (Eldepryl). One of the brand names for Huperzine A is Cerebra, so that is also not to be confused with Celebrex, Cerebyx and Celexa, all of which are prescription drugs.
Huperzine A is an extract from a club moss (Huperzia serrata) that has been used for centuries in Chinese folk medicine. Huperzine's action has been attributed to its ability to strongly inhibit acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine in the synaptic cleft. But the huperzine A is worth trying.Benefits Huperzine A may benefit those with Alzheimer's disease and perhaps also benefit older individuals with dementia. The role of huperzine as a mind booster in young individuals is not clear at this time. Dementia Cell Biochem Biophys. 2012.
Huperzine (HOOP-ur-zeen) A, a dietary supplement derived from the Chinese club moss Huperzia serrata, has received some interest as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease. Huperzine A acts as a cholinesterase inhibitor — a type of medication that works by improving the levels of neurotransmitters in the brain. Small early studies suggest that huperzine A may improve memory and protect nerve cells, which could slow the cognitive decline associated with Alzheimer's.
Huperzine A is a substance purified from a plant called Chinese club moss. Although the makers of huperzine A start with a plant, their product is the result of a lot of laboratory manipulation. It is a highly purified drug, unlike herbs that typically contain hundreds of chemical ingredients.
Huperzine A is a substance purified from a plant called Chinese club moss. Although the makers of huperzine A start with a plant, their product is the result of a lot of laboratory manipulation. Children: Huperzine A is POSSIBLY SAFE in children when taken by mouth for a short period of time (less than one month). Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking huperzine A if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use
Products that combine huperzine A with certain drugs used for treating Alzheimer ’s disease are being studied. These “hybrid” products are of interest because they may be effective at lower doses and, therefore, cause fewer side effects. Children: Huperzine A is POSSIBLY SAFE in children when taken by mouth for a short period of time (less than one month). Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking huperzine A if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use
Huperzine A is used for Alzheimer's disease, memory and learning enhancement, and age-related memory impairment. It is also used for treating a muscle disease called myasthenia gravis, for increasing alertness and energy, and for protecting against agents that damage the nerves such as nerve gases. Children: Huperzine A is POSSIBLY SAFE in children when taken by mouth for a short period of time (less than one month). Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking huperzine A if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use