The superior thyroid artery arises from the external carotid artery just below the level of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone and ends in the thyroid gland. 1  1 Structure. 1 The superior laryngeal artery accompanies the internal laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the thyrohyoid muscle. 2  This artery branches from the superior thyroid artery near its bifurcation from the external carotid artery.
507). The external carotid artery begins opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, taking a slightly curved course, passes upward and forward, and then inclines backward to the space behind the neck of the mandible, where it divides into the superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries. 6. The ascending pharyngeal artery (a. pharyngea ascendens) (Fig. 513), the smallest branch of the external carotid, is a long, slender vessel, deeply seated in the neck, beneath the other branches of the external carotid and under the Stylopharyngeus.
1 This artery branches from the superior thyroid artery near its bifurcation from the external carotid artery. 2  It pierces the hyothyroid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx, connecting with the branch from the opposite side. 1 The superior laryngeal artery accompanies the internal laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the thyrohyoid muscle. 2  This artery branches from the superior thyroid artery near its bifurcation from the external carotid artery.
The superior thyroid artery is typically the first branch of the external carotid artery. Most of its flow directed into the thyroid bed, with a characteristic thyroid blush on catheter angiography. It is very often seen on a (well-performed) CTA. A superior laryngeal branch often arises from the superior thyroid artery. Penetrating the thyrohyopid membrane along with the superior laryngeal nerve of the vagus nerve, it supplies stuctures of the larynx and hypopharynx
The superior thyroid artery is the first anterior branch of the external carotid artery. In rare cases, it may arise from the common carotid artery just before its bifurcation. The superior thyroid artery descends laterally to the larynx under the cover of the omohyoid and sternohyoid muscles. 
1 The sternocleidomastoid branch runs downward and laterally across the sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies the sternocleidomastoideus muscle and neighboring muscles and skin; it frequently arises as a separate branch from the external carotid artery. 1 The superior laryngeal artery accompanies the internal laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the thyrohyoid muscle. 2  This artery branches from the superior thyroid artery near its bifurcation from the external carotid artery.
The external carotid artery begins opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, taking a slightly curved course, passes upward and forward, and then inclines backward to the space behind the neck of the mandible, where it divides into the superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries. 
The occipital artery, posterior auricular artery, facial artery, superior thyroid artery, and maxillary artery all branch off from the external carotid artery. These arteries supply blood to the thyroid, larynx (voice box), salivary glands, tongue, nose, oral area, neck, face, ears, and lower portions of the skull. The external carotid artery is sometimes affected by carotid artery disease, which is caused by a buildup of plaque. The external carotid arteries supply oxygenated blood to the head region. There is one external carotid artery on the right side of the neck and one on the left side of the neck. Each begins at the common carotid artery and moves up the neck until it divides into the superficial temporal artery and the maxillary artery.
The external carotid artery (ECA) is one of the two terminal branches of the common carotid artery. The other terminal branch is the internal carotid (ICA) , which is somewhat larger than the ECA. The branches of the external carotid artery can be subdivided into groups: 1  arising from the carotid triangle. 2  superior thyroid artery. 3  ascending pharyngeal artery. 4  lingual artery. 5  facial artery. 6  occipital artery. 7  posterior auricular artery. 8  terminal branches. ( 9 internal) maxillary artery.