In England, a baron was the lowest rank of hereditary peerage that entitles the holder to serve in the House of Lords. It is rare to find such nobility names in countries where there is an official aristocracy. Also the Hebrew phrase Bar Aaron, meaning son of Aaron. Kreatif forms: Beauron, Biaron, Burron. Baron /bar-on/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced BARE-an. It is of Old German and Old English origin, and the meaning of Baron is young warrior. A title of nobility, along the lines of Earl and Duke, used as a given name
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. A baron is a member of the nobility, with a rank which varies depending on the nation. In England and Japan, for example, this rank is at the bottom rung of the nobility. A land grant given to a baron is known as a barony. Some baronies were historically quite large, and many have passed out of the control of the aristocracy in the modern era, since the role of the nobility in general society has changed.
Baron is a title of honour, often hereditary, and ranks as one of the lower titles in the various nobiliary systems of Europe. Baronesa is the feminine form, for the wife of a baron or for a woman who has been granted the title in her own right. In general, titles of baron created before the nineteenth century originate from the Crown of Aragon.
The word baron comes from the Old French baron, from a Late Latin baro man; servant, soldier, mercenary (so used in Salic Law; Alemannic Law has barus in the same sense). Baronesa is the feminine form, for the wife of a baron or for a woman who has been granted the title in her own right. In general, titles of baron created before the nineteenth century originate from the Crown of Aragon.
Baron Nashor is the most powerful neutral monster on Summoner's Rift in League of Legends. It is described in-game as follows: This is a very powerful hostile monster, approach with caution! Killing this monster will yield great monetary and magical rewards to the team, but it should not be confronted alone . 
baron. n. 1. (Heraldry) a member of a specific rank of nobility, esp the lowest rank in the British Isles. 2. (Historical Terms) (in Europe from the Middle Ages) originally any tenant-in-chief of a king or other overlord, who held land from his superior by honourable service; a land-holding nobleman. 
Baron sharks can be obtained by cooking raw baron sharks with 80 Cooking, giving 210 Cooking experience. When eaten, they heal 2000 life points, the same as a regular shark, but will continue to heal 50 life points per second for 10 seconds. 
By Melissa Snell. Definition: In the Middle Ages, the term baron referred to any nobleman who pledged his loyalty and service to a superior in return for land that he could pass on to his heirs. The monarch was usually the superior in question, although each baron could parcel out some of his land to subordinate barons. Today a baron is a title of nobility ranking just below a viscount (or, in countries where there are no viscounts, just below a count), but in the Middle Ages, there was no specific rank associated with the term. Examples: