Some minerals can tarnish, thereby affecting the color of the specimen. The best examples are silver tarnishing black, copper tarnishing green, and bornite tarnishing to a play of different colors. Some minerals, such as opal (a variety of quartz), display a multicolored effect when viewed from different angles. This is called opalescence. Some minerals have a different color powder than their actual color. Every mineral has an inherent streak no matter what color it is. For example, calcite occurs in many different colors, shapes, and varieties. But every single variety of calcite has a white streak.
Silver has many unique physical properties that give it very special status. Silver is the best conductor of electricity, is the second most malleable and ductile metal, and is in greater abundance than all other precious metals with similar properties. Silver can be found pure, but is usually mixed with small amounts of gold, arsenic, and antimony. A natural alloy of gold and silver is known as Electrum, and is usually classified as a variety of Gold. Silver is a very resistant mineral. It does not dissolve in most solvent s, and won't react to oxygen or water.
Color is the first thing most people notice about minerals and the reason that they make great jewelry. Minerals appear naturally in an infinite rainbow of color hues. Some minerals are always the same color, others can be many different colors, and some like opals and labradorite change color in different lights. Minerals have been the source for color pigments in paleo-lithic cave paintings and modern cosmetics. Some minerals have even named their colors think azure(ite) blue. Although still subject to the effects of trace elements, the mineral s color is constant and predictable.
Like gold, it is a prized metal, both for its beauty and usefulness. Silver (atomic number 47) is sometimes found in the Earth as the mineral native silver. Its chemical symbol is Ag, after the Latin word Argentum. Silver has a bright, metallic luster, and when untarnished, has a white color. Silver is found combined with a number of different elements to form a variety of minerals and ores. The most important ore mineral of silver is argentite (Ag2S, silver sulfide). In the United States, Nevada is the leading producer of silver where it is a by-product of gold mining. Other significant world producers of silver are Mexico, Peru, Chile, and Canada.
Silver is rarely found as a native element mineral. When found, it is often associated with quartz, gold, copper, sulfides of other metals, arsenides of other metals and other silver minerals. Unlike gold it is rarely found in significant amounts in placer deposits. The silver occurs within the ores of these metals in one of two ways: 1) substituting for one of the metal ions within the ore mineral's atomic structure; or, 2) occurring as an inclusion of native silver or a silver mineral within the ore mineral.
Some minerals always have the same color, such as gold, whereas some minerals, such as quartz, fluorite, and calcite, come in all colors. The presence and intensity of certain elements determines a specimens color. Some minerals have a different color powder than their actual color. Every mineral has an inherent streak no matter what color it is. For example, calcite occurs in many different colors, shapes, and varieties. But every single variety of calcite has a white streak.
In India, foods can be found decorated with a thin layer of silver, known as 'Varak.'. Silver is found in the earth as native silver, a mineral. It has a bright, metallic luster. When it is untarnished, it has a white color. Silver is usually found with a various different elements forming variety of minerals and ores. In gold, lead, zinc, and copper ores, it is found in a very small amounts, which is known as trace amount. As a mineral, it crystallizes in the cubic (isometric) system. 
Other ID Marks. 1) Tarnish. On a freshly broken surface, the color is bright metallic-white. Upon prolonged exposure, it tarnishes black, brown to gray, and dark yellow.2) Silver is the best conductor of electricity. Complex Tests. Dissolves in nitric acid and and sulfuric acid. Silver can be found pure, but is usually mixed with small amounts of gold, arsenic, and antimony. A natural alloy of gold and silver is known as Electrum, and is usually classified as a variety of Gold. Silver is a very resistant mineral. It does not dissolve in most solvent s, and won't react to oxygen or water.
Silver is one of the most famous precious metal s, and has been used for ornamental purposes since the earliest of times. Most silver is extracted from silver ore s, but considerable amounts are mined from Native Silver. Silver can be found pure, but is usually mixed with small amounts of gold, arsenic, and antimony. A natural alloy of gold and silver is known as Electrum, and is usually classified as a variety of Gold. Silver is a very resistant mineral. It does not dissolve in most solvent s, and won't react to oxygen or water.