Zanzibar Gem. Tweet. There’s an exciting newcomer on the indoor plant scene – a very hardy and attractive-looking plant called Zanzibar Gem. Zanzibar Gem’s scientific name, Zamioculcas zamiifolia, gives a hint of its resemblance to the palm-like cycads called zamias. Keep Zanzibar Gem warm and not too wet and the plant will grace your house or garden for years. While Zanzibar Gem can be grown outdoors, it’s most often seen as an almost un-killable indoor plant. It’s been described as the ultimate indoor plant because of its tolerance to low light and lack of water.
Overview. The Zuzu, Zamioculcas zamiifolia, is a succulent native to Zanzibar, Tanzania and other areas of East Africa with dry climates with periods of heavy rain. It is also called the arum fern, aroid palm, eternity plant, fat boy Zanzibar gem and money plant. Zuzus are sold commercially as indoor plants. 
All parts of the plant are poisonous. If chewed or swallowed symptoms can cause immediate pain or a burning sensation and swelling of the lips, mouth, tongue and throat. Contact dermatitis may also occur in sensitive individuals. 
Zanzibar Gem, which grows in dry, shaded sites in its native African habitat, tolerates an amazing amount of neglect. Cold and over-watering are the greatest threats to its well-being. Keep Zanzibar Gem warm and not too wet and the plant will grace your house or garden for years. While Zanzibar Gem can be grown outdoors, it’s most often seen as an almost un-killable indoor plant. It’s been described as the ultimate indoor plant because of its tolerance to low light and lack of water.
The sap of Zanzibar Gem is toxic and, if ingested, could make you unwell so, after dividing the plant, make sure you wash hands well with soap and water. Keep Zanzibar Gem warm and not too wet and the plant will grace your house or garden for years. While Zanzibar Gem can be grown outdoors, it’s most often seen as an almost un-killable indoor plant. It’s been described as the ultimate indoor plant because of its tolerance to low light and lack of water.
The branches are actually large pinnate leaves (like those of a fern)...]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Name,Value:[House Plants-Zanzibar Gem (Zamioculcas. Zamioculcas zamiifolia, Zanzibar Gem or ZZ Plant, is a popular house plant with glossy evergreen leaves. This is a good choice for people struggling to keep house plants. Light Zanzibar Gem is a shadow plant that can survive in the dark corners of your house or office. If the plant is put in the shade, the leaves will turn dark green.
Zanzibar Gem is typically used as a large decorative plant, displayed in a stand-alone pot. It is very easy to keep indoors and hard to destroy. This is a good choice for people struggling to keep house plants. Light. Zanzibar Gem is a shadow plant that can survive in the dark corners of your house or office. If the plant is put in the shade, the leaves will turn dark green. Putting the plant in a brighter spot with lots of indirect sunlight will stimulate growth and leaf production. This is a good choice for people struggling to keep house plants. Light Zanzibar Gem is a shadow plant that can survive in the dark corners of your house or office. If the plant is put in the shade, the leaves will turn dark green.
Zamioculcas, Aroid Palm, ZZ Palm. Zamioculcas zamiifolia has a lot of common names such as Aroid or ZZ Palm, Zanzibar Gem but is best known as the Zamioculcas. The native to Africa (Kenya, South Africa) plant is the only member of its genus wich belongs to the araceae family. Aroid Palm (Zamioculcas zamiifolia). The botanical name Zamioculcas is based on Zamia furfuracea, a member of the (not related) Zamiaceae family and means “with leaves like Zamia”.
Zamioculcas (Common name Zanzibar Gem) is a genus of flowering plant in the family Araceae, containing the single species Zamioculcas zamiifolia. 