Rotator Cuff Tears. The shoulder is a complex, very mobile joint with over twenty muscles involved in its motion. Four of these muscles are involved in the rotator cuff, a group of four tendons that join together and facilitate rotation of the arm bone, or humerus, at the shoulder. Rotator cuff tears may be asymptomatic, or they may cause pain and weakness of the shoulder. Rotator cuff tears usually cause pain with shoulder motion, and shoulder motion may actually become limited due to pain. Sometimes the pain is not in the shoulder itself, but refers to the affected arm.
Typically a rotator cuff tear means that one or more of the rotator cuff TENDONS was torn. Recall that the rotator cuff is comprised of four MUSCLES. Examples of Torn Rotator Cuffs: The arrow in figure A points to a rotator cuff TENDON. 
So what is it, exactly? The rotator cuff is a group of four tendons and muscles that converge around the shoulder joint at the top of the humerus, the upper arm bone above the elbow. Together, they form a ''cuff'' that both holds your arm in place and allows it to move in different directions. While your shoulder is one of your most mobile joints, it's also somewhat weak. Too much stress -- or too many fastballs -- can cause partial tears and swelling in the tendons of the rotator cuff. Abrupt stress may even cause one of the tendons to pull away from the bone or tear in the middle of the tendon.
Although many people refer to the rotator cuff as a general area in the shoulder, your rotator cuff itself is a group of 4 tendons located at the top of your humerus. These tendons are called the subscapularis tendon, the supraspinatus tendon, the infraspinatus tendon, and the teres minor tendon. 
All rights reserved. The rotator cuff is a group of tendons and muscles in the shoulder, connecting the upper arm (humerus) to the shoulder blade (scapula). The rotator cuff tendons provide stability to the shoulder; the muscles allow the shoulder to rotate. The muscles in the rotator cuff include: 1  Teres minor. 2  Infraspinatus. 3  Supraspinatus.
Full Thickness Tears. An abnormality of the rotator cuff is considered a full thickness tear if it results in a connection between the articular and bursal surfaces of the cuff tendon. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In anatomy, the rotator cuff (sometimes incorrectly called a rotator cup, rotor cuff, or rotary cup) is a group of muscles and their tendons that act to stabilize the shoulder. The four muscles of the rotator cuff are over half of the seven scapulohumeral muscles. The rotator cuff muscles are important in shoulder movements and in maintaining glenohumeral joint (shoulder joint) stability. These muscles arise from the scapula and connect to the head of the humerus, forming a cuff at the shoulder joint.
Rotator cuff surgery is the surgical repair of a damaged rotator cuff tendon. The rotator cuff tendons are tough piece of connective tissue that control the motion of your shoulder joint. Your shoulder joint is formed where your upper arm bone (humerus), shoulder blade (scapula), and collarbone (clavicle) meet.