When you rent 4 sets of clubs at once you will automatically receive a 25% discount on the entire cost of your rental! In addition, a rental credit will be added to your account that you can use towards any future rentals! FREE DELIVERY AND PICK UP!!! All orders of $160 or more will receive FREE DELIVERY and. You might even have time for two rounds of golf! You can pay up to $60 per round renting clubs from a golf course! Our rental sets start at just $39 for 24 hours. We also offer discounts on multiple day, week and bulk rentals. We carry a variety of club sets from some of the biggest names in golf like Callaway, TaylorMade, Titleist, Nike, Ping and Adams
GolfClubsAway.com lets you rent a great set of Nike golf clubs for personal delivery and pick-up to your hotel or golf course in Florida, Arizona and Las Vegas! No more lugging clubs through the airport. No more worrying about lost or damaged clubs. 
1 Be prepared to spend anywhere from $30 to as much as $90 per day to rent a premium branded golf club set. 2  If you do not mind playing with a lower grade, the costs can be anywhere from $10 to $40 per day. 3  Generally, the more days you rent the clubs, the more you are going to be able to save per day. 1 Most higher end rental services will rent out brands like Nike, TaylorMade, Callaway, Wilson and Finesse. 2  If you want to pay less, you can get a lesser known brand of golf clubs for almost 50% less.
1 The longer you rent the clubs, the more you are going to save. 2  If you know you are going to need the clubs for more than one day, be sure to prepay for the entire shift ahead of time. 3  Consider some online services that specialize with renting out golf clubs. 1 Most higher end rental services will rent out brands like Nike, TaylorMade, Callaway, Wilson and Finesse. 2  If you want to pay less, you can get a lesser known brand of golf clubs for almost 50% less.
It’s no secret that buying a set of golf clubs can set you back a few hundred dollars. It’s also no secret that shipping your golf clubs to a vacation destination can be expensive as can checking your golf clubs on an airplane. 1 Most higher end rental services will rent out brands like Nike, TaylorMade, Callaway, Wilson and Finesse. 2  If you want to pay less, you can get a lesser known brand of golf clubs for almost 50% less.
Median Cost Per Round. The median cost for 18 holes of golf at a public course on the weekend is $36, including a cart, according to the survey, which noted that at a daily course -- a privately owned facility open to the public -- the median cost was $40 for a weekend round. As of 2005, the NGF survey determined, the average cost of an 18-hole round was $42.70 at courses built prior to 1970, but $48.33 for courses constructed between 1970 and 1990, and $60.55 for courses built in 1990 or later. Golfers pay premium prices to play the best U.S. public courses.
There are obviously many factors to consider, but from a pure price perspective, renting golf clubs from these outfits for a day (starting at $55-$65) can be less expensive than renting from higher-end golf courses and resorts ($75-$100 per day) or shipping your clubs roundtrip (starting at $80-$100). One other alternative to renting clubs from a resort or national golf rental company is to rent from a regional one. While the regional companies only service a specific state or region within the country, if you happen to be traveling to one of them, you might just be able to take advantage of some great deals.