© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The arteries are the blood vessels that deliver oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the tissues of the body. Each artery is a muscular tube lined by smooth tissue and has three layers: 1  The intima, the inner layer lined by a smooth tissue called endothelium. The largest artery is the aorta, the main high-pressure pipeline connected to the heart's left ventricle. The aorta branches into a network of smaller arteries that extend throughout the body. The arteries' smaller branches are called arterioles and capillaries.
Peripheral arterial disease (P.A.D.) is a disease in which plaque (plak) builds up in the arteries that carry blood to your head, organs, and limbs. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, fibrous tissue, and other substances in the blood. 
An artery is an elastic blood vessel that transports blood away from the heart. There are two main types of arteries: pulmonary arteries and systemic arteries. Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs where the blood picks up oxygen. The oxygen rich blood is then returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. Systemic arteries deliver blood to the rest of the body. The aorta is the main systemic artery and the largest artery of the body. It originates from the heart and branches out into smaller arteries which supply blood to the head region (brachiocephalic artery), the heart itself (coronary arteries), and the lower regions of the body
A large artery in which elastic connective tissue is predominant in the middle layer (tunica media). Elastic arteries include the aorta and its larger branches (brachiocephalic, common carotid, subclavian, and common iliac), which conduct blood to the muscular arteries. The anterior choroidal artery it is a branch of the internal carotid artery; it supplies blood to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, the optic tract, the lateral geniculate body, the posterior limb of the internal capsule, the globus pallidus, and parts of the thalamus.
The pulmonary artery carries blood from the heart to the lungs, where it receives oxygen. It is unique because the blood in it is not oxygenated, as it has not yet passed through the lungs. The other unique artery is the umbilical artery, which carries deoxygenated blood from a fetus to its mother]. Arteries have a higher blood pressure than other parts of the circulatory system. The pressure in arteries varies during the cardiac cycle. It is highest when the heart contracts and lowest when heart relaxes. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system. The circulatory system is vital for sustaining life.
Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system. The circulatory system is vital for sustaining life.
A vessel carrying blood from the heart to the tissues.. Pulmonary arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle to the lungs to pick up oxygen and to release carbon dioxide; in contrast, systemic arteries carry oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the rest of the body. The anterior choroidal artery it is a branch of the internal carotid artery; it supplies blood to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, the optic tract, the lateral geniculate body, the posterior limb of the internal capsule, the globus pallidus, and parts of the thalamus.
Artery: A vessel that carries blood high in oxygen content away from the heart to the farthest reaches of the body. Since blood in arteries is usually full of oxygen, the hemoglobin in the red blood cells is oxygenated. The resultant form of hemoglobin (oxyhemoglobin) is what makes arterial blood look bright red. By contrast, a vein is a blood vessel that carries blood low in oxygen content from the body back to the heart. The deoxygenated form of hemoglobin (deoxyhemoglobin) in venous blood makes it appear dark. Veins are part of the afferent wing of the circulatory system which returns blood to the heart.