Remove your password. If you want to remove your password, open the document and click the File menu again. Click Protect Document and select “Encrypt with Password”. There will be a password in the box, delete it and press OK. If you want to remove your password, open the document and click the Tools menu again. Select Options and then click the Security tab. There will be a password in the box, delete it and press OK. Ad.
Before I start, here is how we normally remove a password from a password-protected document in Microsoft Word. After opening the document in Word, go to Save As, and click Tools in the Save As window, choose General Option. And remove password from the Password to Modify box, click OK, and save the document. Just follow these steps: 1. Rename the extension name of the document to ZIP, like as a ZIP compressed file. 2. Double click it and open it in Windows Explorer, navigate to Word folder. 3. Delete the Settings.xml file from the folder. And then close the Window. 4. Rename back to DOCX file. 5. And done.
Remove password encryption: To remove password encryption from the document, open the document and enter the password in the Password box. Then click File Info Protect Document Encrypt with Password. Delete the contents of the Password box, click OK, and then save the document again. Remove editing restrictions: To remove editing restrictions, click Stop Protection at the bottom of the Restrict Editing pane. Remove protection in your Word document. In an open document, click File Info Protect Document. You see the following options. Remove Mark as Final: When you mark a document as final, Word asks you to save the file. The next time you open it, you will see a yellow MARKED AS FINAL message at the top of the document.
Remove password protection from a Word document. Use the password to open the document. Click the Microsoft Office Button, point to Prepare, and then click Encrypt Document. In the Encrypt Document dialog box, in the Password box, delete the encrypted password, and then click OK. Save the file. Remove password protection from an Excel spreadsheet. Use the password to open the spreadsheet. Click the Microsoft Office Button, point to Prepare, and then click Encrypt Document. In the Encrypt Document dialog box, in the Password box, delete the encrypted password, and then click OK.
Remove your password. If you want to remove your password, open the document and click the Word menu again. Select Preferences and then click Security. There will be a password in the box, delete it and press OK. If you want to remove your password, open the document and click the Tools menu again. Select Options and then click the Security tab. There will be a password in the box, delete it and press OK. Ad.
Open the Word document from which you want to remove protection. Go to the Review tab of the ribbon. Click the Restrict Editing button in the Protect group. The Restrict Formatting and Editing task pane will open. Click the Stop Protection button at the bottom of the task pane. Enter the document password. 
Remove pass word encryption: To remove password encryption from the file, open the workbook and enter the password in the Password box. Then click File Info Protect Workbook Encrypt with Password. Delete the contents of the Password box, click OK, and then save the file again. Remove protection in your Word document. In an open document, click File Info Protect Document. You see the following options. Remove Mark as Final: When you mark a document as final, Word asks you to save the file. The next time you open it, you will see a yellow MARKED AS FINAL message at the top of the document.
Remove your password. If you want to remove your password, open the document and click the Tools menu again. Select Options and then click the Security tab. There will be a password in the box, delete it and press OK. Ad.
Set a password in a Word document. To encrypt your file and set a password to open it: Click the Microsoft Office Button, point to Prepare, and then click Encrypt Document. In the Encrypt Document dialog box, in the Password box, type a password, and then click OK. Caution Keep your password in a safe place. Remove password protection from an Excel spreadsheet. Use the password to open the spreadsheet. Click the Microsoft Office Button, point to Prepare, and then click Encrypt Document. In the Encrypt Document dialog box, in the Password box, delete the encrypted password, and then click OK.