Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. 
it takes approximately 6 hours, but it can take up to 12 hours if you have an 'infection' ... I 'know this' because I've had infections and the 'pills' they gave me changed the COLOR of my urine, and that is how long it took to get from 'ingesting' the pill with water, to 'peeing out that color' ... Depending on your level of activity, body heat, how warm it is outside, etc will effect the actual output. Some of the fluids may be output by perspiration and is not necessarily all expelled in urine or to soften fecal material etc. Source(s): amycrnmsn · 8 years ago.
http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_long_does_it_take_for_water_to_pass_through_the_body. It takes around 45 minutes for water to pass through but if its a slightly thicker liquid it takes around 46 minutes. It takes between 2-4 hrs for food to leave the stomach & it takes less time with water; absorption of water takes approx. 30 min.
it takes around 45 minutes for water to pass through but if its a slightly thinker liquid it takes around 46 minutes   it takes around 45 minutes for water to pass th … rough but if its a slightly thinker liquid it takes around 46 minutes. Previous answer: It takes 28 hours for food to pass through the human gut Improved answer: That would depend on the type of food, the quantity and who's gut. As an example; … meat is more difficult to digest and therefore takes longer.
Dear ruhl, All else being equal, it is normal for a person to pass water every two hours. And if you've drunk water, you'd have to wait for four to five hours before you can be put to sleep for surgery. This is the time it takes for the water to clear.
Confidence votes 39. It takes around 62 hours for water to pass through, but if its a slightly thicker, liquid it takes around 46 hours. (The thinner the substance, the longer it takes). Previous answer: It takes 28 hours for food to pass through the human gut Improved answer: That would depend on the type of food, the quantity and who's gut. As an example; … meat is more difficult to digest and therefore takes longer.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. it takes around 45 minutes for water to pass through but if its a slightly thinker liquid it takes around 46 minutes it takes around 45 minutes for water to pass through but if its a slightly thinker liquid it takes around 46 minutes. How long does it take for liquids-like water-to pass through the body-from the time it is consumed?
But here is where the aforementioned ’conditions’ are in play. If you drink water on an empty stomach, it can pass through the stomach into the large intestine and enter your bloodstream within 5 minutes(especially if the water is colder, compared to warm!). 
Best Answer: Normal healthy kidney's produce approximately 30mL of urine every hour even with minimal intake of fluids. Therefore in order for water to go through your system and by processed by your kidney's it takes at least 30 minutes to a maximum of 2 hours. Depending on your level of activity, body heat, how warm it is outside, etc will effect the actual output. Some of the fluids may be output by perspiration and is not necessarily all expelled in urine or to soften fecal material etc. Source(s): amycrnmsn · 8 years ago.