Unfortunately, Duke's Jahlil Okafor and Kentucky's Karl-Anthony Towns, as well as international prospects Emmanuel Mudiay, Mario Hezonja and Kristaps Porzingis, won't be attending the combine, which takes place May 14 and 15. If the Knicks miss out on the No. 1 pick and Karl-Anthony Towns, it wouldn't be shocking to see them trade down, whether it's for a guard, Duke's Justise Winslow or Kentucky's Willie Cauley-Stein. Trading out for an established talent will likely also be on the table.
Notebook: Top storylines and rumors from the 2015 NBA draft combine. NBA Mock Draft 1.0: Towns, Okafor battle for No. 1. SI's Chris Mannix unveiled his first 2015 NBA Mock Draft Thursday, and Duke's Jahlil Okafor and Kentucky Karl-Anthony Towns battle for the top pick. On SI Now, Sports Illustrated senior writer Chris Mannix gives his take on why top prospects such as Jahlil Okafor and Karl-Anthony Towns have decided not to participate in the NBA D
Why top stars don't attend the NBA draft combine. On SI Now, Sports Illustrated senior writer Chris Mannix gives his take on why top prospects such as Jahlil Okafor and Karl-Anthony Towns have decided not to participate in the NBA Draft combine.
Players use NBA combine to get noticed. Every year decision makers across the league gather in Chicago for the NBA Draft Combine, a combination of athletic and medical testing, measurements, and interviews. And, for the first time since 2008, 5-on-5 basketball games. Players use NBA combine to get noticed. Derek Bodner, Special for USA TODAY Sports 3:28 p.m. EDT May 16, 2015. USA TODAY Sports' Derek Bodner shares breaks down some risers and fallers from the NBA draft combine. LSU forward Jordan Mickey hopes he turned heads at the NBA combine.
The NBA Draft Combine started Wednesday in Chicago, and here are all the pre-draft measurements you need and crave. The measurements they take are pretty reasonable -- weight, standing reach, wingspan, hand length -- but there's one weird thing: They measure the prospects both in shoes and without shoes. But the NBA opts to measure both, and releases them. The data helps us learn that there are no true 7-footers in the draft, only shoed 7-footers. It teaches us most potential NBA players wear shoes between one and two inches. Oklahoma's TaShawn Thomas wears shoes that are but a flimsy .75 inches thick.
Although the NBA Draft Combine is the largest pre-draft gathering for testing and drills, international players can attend a separate Eurocamp at a later date. Parts of the combine are televised on ESPNU and ESPN2. In 2013, Rudy Gobert set the Combine records for wingspan 7 feet 8.5 inches (2.35 m) and standing reach 9 feet 7 inches (2.92 m). D. J. Stephens set the vertical leap record in 2013 at 46 inches (1.17 m). Combine results may or may not affect draft position. The athletic tests include a standing vertical jump, maximum vertical jump, bench press, three-quarter-court sprint time, lane agility time, and modified event time. Physical measurements include height with shoes, height without shoes, wingspan, weight, standing reach, body fat, hand length, and hand width.
And then there's Vince Hunter. You might think that this is just a clerical error -- somebody entered the wrong height -- but we at SB Nation have uncovered shocking and very real photo evidence that Hunter has been deceiving us all along: NBA teams, do not draft Vince Hunter. He is a fraud. He is not 6'7. He is a tiny child wearing 9-inch tall shoes. He lacks NBA height, and his speed and vertical leap have been ruined by the stilt-like boots he tramps up and down the court in. But the NBA opts to measure both, and releases them. The data helps us learn that there are no true 7-footers in the draft, only shoed 7-footers. It teaches us most potential NBA players wear shoes between one and two inches. Oklahoma's TaShawn Thomas wears shoes that are but a flimsy .75 inches thick.
As the NBA Draft combine begins, here's our list of the top 30 prospects. Tweet Share.  Tweet Share on Twitter Share Share on Facebook Pin Pinterest 58 Comments. The NBA Draft Combine is this week, giving teams a chance to see how the prospects measure out and what they're like as people. The 2015 draft class has many potential all-star prospects in the lottery and is littered with quality upside throughout the rest of the first round. Team interviews can go a long way in separating those prospects.