Thyroid peroxidase (microsomal antigen): Antithyroid peroxidase antibody (TPOAb). TSH receptor: Anti-TSH receptor antibody (TRAb). The presence of serum thyroid antibodies usually indicates an autoimmune thyroid disorder, but elevated levels may also be detected in other conditions. 
Thyroid peroxidase (TPO), an enzyme normally found in the thyroid gland, plays an important role in the production of thyroid hormones. A TPO test detects antibodies against TPO in the blood. The presence of TPO antibodies in your blood suggests that the cause of thyroid disease is an autoimmune disorder, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. In autoimmune disorders, your immune system makes antibodies that mistakenly attack normal tissue
Antibodies that attack the thyroid gland cause inflammation and impaired function of the thyroid. Your doctor may also order a TPO antibody test if you are pregnant and have an autoimmune disease, especially one that involves the thyroid, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. Some people with TPO antibodies may not have thyroid disease. The presence of TPO antibodies in your blood suggests that the cause of thyroid disease is an autoimmune disorder, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. In autoimmune disorders, your immune system makes antibodies that mistakenly attack normal tissu
The determination of TPO antibody levels is the most sensitive test for detecting autoimmune thyroid disease (eg, Hashimoto thyroiditis, idiopathic myxedema, and Graves disease) and detectable concentrations of anti-TPO antibodies are observed in most patients with these disorders. Thyroperoxidase (TPO) is an enzyme involved in thyroid hormone synthesis, catalyzing the oxidation of iodide on tyrosine residues in thyroglobulin for the synthesis of triiodothyronine and thyroxine (tetraiodothyronine).
Thyroid peroxidase test is a test that measures the level of an antibody that is directed against thyroid peroxidase (TPO). Autoantibodies to thyroid peroxidase (TPOAb) are produced within the body. The presence of TPOAb in the blood reflects a prior attack on the thyroid tissue by the body's immune system. TPO is found in thyroid follicle cells where it converts the thyroid hormone T4 to T3. The thyroid gland is located in the lower part of the neck, below the Adam's apple, wrapped around the trachea (windpipe).
The most clinically relevant anti-thyroid autoantibodies are anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies (anti-TPO antibodies), thyrotropin receptor antibodies (TRAbs) and thyroglobulin antibodies. TRAbs are subdivided into activating, blocking and neutral antibodies, depending on their effect on the TSH receptor. Anti-thyroid peroxidase (anti-TPO) antibodies are specific for the autoantigen TPO, a 105kDa glycoprotein that catalyses iodine oxidation and thyroglobulin tyrosyl iodination reactions in the thyroid gland.
Testing for thyroid antibodies, such as thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO), is primarily ordered to help diagnose an autoimmune thyroid disease and to distinguish it from other forms of thyroid dysfunction. One or more thyroid antibody tests may also be ordered to determine if a person with an autoimmune condition is at risk of developing thyroid dysfunction. This may occur with disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, or pernicious anemia.
Thyroid peroxidase or thyroperoxidase (TPO) is an enzyme expressed mainly in the thyroid where it is secreted into colloid. Thyroid peroxidase oxidizes iodide ions to form iodine atoms for addition onto tyrosine residues on thyroglobulin for the production of thyroxine (T 4) or triiodothyronine (T 3), the thyroid hormones.
The Thyroid Peroxidase Antibodies test can detect whether antibodies are present and which type (Hashimoto’s or Grave’s) they are. The test can also be used to rule out an autoimmune thyroid disorder and distinguish between an autoimmune or other type of thyroid dysfunction. Normal Results: A negative test result is normal indicating that there are no thyroid peroxidase antibodies present in the blood. Mildly High Results: Mildly high results may indicate one of several possible disorders or diseases including cancer, pernicious anemia, diabetes type 1, or rheumatoid arthritis.