One of the key differences in the biscuit mixing method and the muffin mixing method is that for the biscuit method you use solid fat, almost always cold solid fat, and the muffin method you will use a liquid fat. For these biscuits we are using very cold, real, unsalted butter cut into small pieces. 1 In general, when using The Biscuit Mixing Method you want your fat and your liquids very cold. 2  In general, when using The Muffin Mixing Method you want your fat and liquids at room temp (or slightly warm if your fat is melted butter).
In a large, wide bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, sugar, baking soda, and salt. Using a pastry blender or your fingertips, cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal with some pea-size lumps. Using a silicone spatula, stir in the buttermilk just until the flour mixture is moistened. Do not overmix; the dough should just come together, and it will be sticky.
Mixing Biscuit Dough. Keep the following in mind while mixing for biscuits: 1  To evenly distribute the leavening, combine the flour, leavening and salt in a mixing bowl and mix well. 2  Realize that some recipes also direct you to mix in sugar with the flour, leavening and salt. 3  Be sure the fat is cold. 1 To evenly distribute the leavening, combine the flour, leavening and salt in a mixing bowl and mix well. 2  Realize that some recipes also direct you to mix in sugar with the flour, leavening and salt. 3  Be sure the fat is cold.
Transfer the dough to a floured work surface and gently knead 6 to 8 times, dusting lightly with flour if needed to keep it from sticking. The flour and butter mixture can be refrigerated in a zip-top freezer bag for up to 1 week, or frozen for up to 1 month. If frozen, thaw at room temperature for 30 minutes before proceeding with the recipe. Using a pastry blender or your fingertips, cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal with some pea-size lumps. Using a silicone spatula, stir in the buttermilk just until the flour mixture is moistened. Do not overmix; the dough should just come together, and it will be sticky.
Each of the steps is important. To make a good biscuit, the correct mixing of the ingredients is crucial. Although you could use an electric mixer I prefer to mix the dough by hand using either a pastry blender, two knives or just my fingertips. This method is similar to how a pie dough is made and gives the biscuit a wonderful delicate and flaky texture. The wet ingredients are then added to the flour mixture. Only mix the dough until it comes together. I cannot stress enough that this dough should not be overworked and that a light hand is needed. If you end up with a hard and doughy biscuit, you will know to mix the dough less the next time
Directions. 1  In a large bowl mix together the flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt. 2  Cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. 3  Store in an airtight container for up to 6 weeks. 
1 Realize that some recipes also direct you to mix in sugar with the flour, leavening and salt. 2  Be sure the fat is cold. 3  Add the fat to the flour mixture in heaping tablespoon-sized pieces, then, using a pastry blender, two knives or your fingertips cut the fat into increasingly smaller pieces. 1 To evenly distribute the leavening, combine the flour, leavening and salt in a mixing bowl and mix well. 2  Realize that some recipes also direct you to mix in sugar with the flour, leavening and salt. 3  Be sure the fat is cold.
1 Keep your butter and liquids cold: Mixing biscuit dough by hand helps control the size of the butter pieces and reduces the risk of over-mixing. 2  If you're working in a very warm environment or have hot hands, consider using a food processor to cut-in the butter. 3  Again, be careful not to over-mix. Turn out the dough onto a lightly floured work surface. To create a cohesive dough, press and fold it with your fingers, rather than squeezing or kneading it. This controls gluten formation, which can make your biscuits tough rather than light and fluffy.