Pensions vs Isas: the tables that show which is the better place to save. New Isas or 'Nisas' allow savers to protect £15,000 from the taxman each year. The pension benefits from tax relief on the way in. A £500 contribution is grossed up to £625 for a basic-rate taxpayer and £833 for a 40pc taxpayer.
Tax implications. With pensions you get tax relief up front on contributions so a contribution of £100 becomes £125 in your pension-and higher-rate tax payers can claim higher relief. As growth is on the higher sum, this gives pensions an important advantage, as there is no tax relief available on payments into an ISA. The popularity of ISAs has continued in recent years as more and more people take advantage of tax-efficient savings. Over the same time period many people have called into question the value of pensions, causing some to ask whether an ISA is actually a better bet when it comes to retirement saving.
The previous year, £14.4 billion was invested in personal pensions and £12.5 billion into ISAs. It could be that ISAs have overtaken pensions because money held in an ISA can be easily accessed, whereas with a pension you can’t get your money out until you are 55 years old. However, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. Only a stupid person would put money into pensions now. Save in ISAS, YOU CAN GET ALL OF THE MONEY WHENEVER YOU WANT IT. iTS YOURS! Pensions are the only Ponzi scheme approved by the government.
When you draw on your pension you are taxed at income levels again. But in all probability you are going to have a smaller income and usually this means basic rate tax. According to Lorreine Kennedy, an adviser at Care Matters, this could mean you're 33 per cent better off than with an Isa. - Saving limits. You can only pay a maximum of £10,680 into Isas each year. You can invest all of it into a stocks and shares Isa, or save up to £5,340 into a cash Isa. These limits might well be sufficient for most people.
Although there is a limit to the amount you can save in an ISA (£15,000 in 2014/15) and (£15,240 from April 2015), you now get to choose how you split this between stocks & shares and cash ISAs. For anyone looking to save in a tax efficient environment, the choice between a pension and an ISA has always been quite an easy one. Until recently, pensions were tied up and ISAs were accessible.
The main difference between an ISA and a pension is how you're taxed. With pensions, you enjoy tax relief when you put money in. For example, if you invest £100, it becomes £125 in the pension fund as the provider claims back basic-rate tax relief. Save for your child's future. As for ISAs, you'll get your tax benefits when it comes to drawing down your money. For example, when you take out money from a cash ISA, you don't have to pay any income tax on the interest you've earned. When you withdraw money from a pension, you can only withdraw 25% as a tax-free lump sum-the rest has to provide some form of income, which is taxable.
Pensions. Pensions offer tax relief on the money you pay in as well as your returns, and come in two forms: workplace and personal. A workplace pension – also known as an occupational or company pensions – is a way of saving for your retirement that’s arranged by your employer.
Isas are taxed at the first stage only. So if, for example, you put a certain proportion of your net salary into an Isa, you cannot reclaim the tax that you have already paid. With a pension, on the other hand, you can reclaim this money. Say you want to invest £10,000 to help fund your retirement and that the investments you choose, whether held in a pension or an Isa, will double in value between now and then. The Isa will simply grow to £20,000, which you can withdraw and spend without any liability to tax.
Isas don't get the upfront tax relief that pensions enjoy, however, unlike retirement savings plans, there is no tax to pay when you cash them in. With pensions only 25% can be taken as tax-free cash so you'll have to pay income tax on the remainder (with the whole lump sum being taxed as income in that year). For somebody paying 20% tax this would bring their pension's value down to £36,895 and £30,384 for a higher rate taxpayer if they were to cash the whole pot in. So basic rate taxpayers seeking to make large cash withdrawals (enough to bring themselves up a tax bracket) could be better off saving with an Isa.