Definition of SYSTEMIC RISK. : the risk that the failure of one financial institution (as a bank) could cause other interconnected institutions to fail and harm the economy as a whole. ADVERTISEMENT.
If you name someone or something, you give them a name. She wanted to name the baby Colleen. He named his horse Circuit. 2. 'name after'. In British English, if you intentionally give someone or something the same name as a particular person or thing, you say that you name them after that person or thing. n. 1. a word or term by which a person or thing is commonly and distinctively known. 2. mere outward appearance or form as opposed to fact (esp in the phrase in name): he was a ruler in name only. 3. a word, title, or phrase descriptive of character, usually abusive or derogatory: to call a person names.
name. n. 1. a word or term by which a person or thing is commonly and distinctively known. 2. mere outward appearance or form as opposed to fact (esp in the phrase in name): he was a ruler in name only. 3. a word, title, or phrase descriptive of character, usually abusive or derogatory: to call a person names.
adj. 1. Characterized by, based on, or constituting a system: systematic thought. 2. Working or done in a step-by-step manner; methodical: a systematic worker; a systematic approach. sys′tem·at′i·cal·ly adv. 4. concerned with classification: systematic botany. 5. pertaining to, based on, or in accordance with a system of classification: the systematic names of plants. systēmaticus systēmatikos = systēmatikós-, systēmat. s of sýstēma + -system-ikos ]. ic`sys•tem′at•ic, ness. n`sys•tem′at•i•cal, ly. adv
also sys`tem•at′i•cal, 1. having, showing, or involving a system, method, or plan: systematic efforts. 2. given to or using a system or method; methodical: a systematic person. 3. arranged in or comprising an ordered system: systematic theology. 4. concerned with classification: systematic botany. 5. pertaining to, based on, or in accordance with a system of classification: the systematic names of plants. systēmaticus systēmatikos = systēmatikós-, systēmat. s of sýstēma + -system-ikos ]. ic`sys•tem′at•ic, ness. n`sys•tem′at•i•cal, ly. adv
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A systematic name is a name given in a systematic way to one unique group, organism, object or chemical substance, out of a specific population or collection. Systematic names are usually part of a nomenclature. A semisystematic name or semitrivial name is a name that has at least one systematic part and at least one trivial part.
Systematic or IUPAC Name. The systematic name, also called the IUPAC name is the preferred way to name a chemical because each systematic name identifies exactly one chemical. The systematic name is determined by guidelines set forth by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC).
There are many ways to name a chemical. Here is a look at the difference between different types of chemical names, including systematic names, common names, vernacular names and CAS numbers. The systematic name, also called the IUPAC name is the preferred way to name a chemical because each systematic name identifies exactly one chemical. The systematic name is determined by guidelines set forth by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC).
sys·te·mat·ic name. As applied to chemical substances, a combination of specially coined or selected words or syllables, each of which has a precisely defined chemical structural meaning, so that the structure may be derived from the name. 
1. characterized by the use of order and planning; methodical: a systematic administrator. 2. comprising or resembling a system: systematic theology. 3. (Biology) Also: systematical biology of or relating to the taxonomic classification of organisms. (ˌsɪs təˈmaet təˈmæt). ɪk. adj 4. concerned with classification: systematic botany. 5. pertaining to, based on, or in accordance with a system of classification: the systematic names of plants. systēmaticus systēmatikos = systēmatikós-, systēmat. s of sýstēma + -system-ikos ]. ic`sys•tem′at•ic, ness. n`sys•tem′at•i•cal, ly. adv