When a neuromodulator is injected into the masseter muscle, it causes the muscle to weaken and shrink slightly. It gradually begins to slim after a couple of weeks, with the full effect visible after three months. Results of the injection into the masseter muscle can last up to one year. Because the masseter muscle has fewer nerve endings than the muscles that cause facial wrinkles, the injection of onabotulinum toxin A lasts significantly longer in the masseter muscle. Neuromodulator injections are commonly used to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles on the face, but here at Cosmetic Laser Dermatology in San Diego, our expert injectors can also inject Botox into the masseter facial muscle to slim the jaw and treat teeth grinding, also known as bruxism.
Your masseter muscle is your primary chewing muscle — not the only one, but the main one — and it covers the sides of the jaw just behind the cheeks. It’s also the main muscle that clenches your jaw and grinds your teeth, unfortunately, and it’s one of the most common locations for trigger points in the human body. 
Masseter. The masseter muscle is a facial muscle that plays a major role in the chewing of solid foods. The muscle is shaped similar to a parallelogram, connecting to the mandible (lower jawbone) and the cheekbone. The masseter is divided into two distinct sections, the superficial and deep portions. The masseter is the key muscle that pulls the mandible upward. All four muscles are connected to a single division of the trigeminal nerve. Because of the sheer bulk of the masseter muscle, portions of it are sometimes removed by plastic surgeons performing jaw reduction surgery.
In human anatomy, the masseter is one of the muscles of mastication. In the animal kingdom, it is particularly powerful in herbivores to facilitate chewing of plant matter. The most obvious muscle of mastication is the masseter muscle, since it is the most superficial and one of the strongest.
Botox Jaw Reduction. The masseter muscle is the muscle in the jaw responsible for the chewing process. It is also the muscle that commonly causes a person to have a large, square-shaped jaw. Neuromodulator injections are commonly used to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles on the face, but here at Cosmetic Laser Dermatology in San Diego, our expert injectors can also inject Botox into the masseter facial muscle to slim the jaw and treat teeth grinding, also known as bruxism.
Botox-Masseter Hypertrophy. Botox [boh-toks] is a purified form of botulinum, which is a neurotoxin causing a condition called botulism. Botox is injected into the masseter muscle in minute amounts especially to treat muscle spasms and relax facial muscles and to reduce wrinkles. Botox-Masseter Hypertrophy Treatment procedure: Botox is used for masseter hypertrophy treatment, also known as botox jaw reduction. Botox is injected into the muscle of jaw, causing jaw reduction. Botox in a non-invasive manner can reduce the overall size of muscle, allowing for improved facial proportions.
Abstract. Masseter muscle hypertrophy is a rare condition of idiopathic cause. It clinically presents as an enlargement of one or both masseter muscles. Most patients complain of facial asymmetry; however, symptoms such as trismus, protrusion, and bruxism may also occur
The masseter muscle is the most powerful muscle of mastication. It is quadrangular in shape, and can be split into two parts; deep and superficial. © 2015 TeachMeAnatomy.com [CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0]. Fig 1.0 – The masseter muscle. 
The masseter is a muscle running between the cheekbone, or zygomatic arch, and lower jawbone, or mandible. Tooth grinding may cause headaches. Masseter enlargement may result in dry mouth. Constant tooth grinding may cause inflammation of the masseter muscle and neck pain. Top 10 facts about the world. The masseter is a muscle running between the cheekbone, or zygomatic arch, and lower jawbone, or mandible. It has a large superficial portion and a smaller deep portion, both of which are situated close to the parotid salivary gland.