Learn more about how this “hands-on” alternative therapy option can help heal your body. slide 1 of 2. Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment (OMT) is a ‘hands on’ method of healing. This alternative treatment option can help the body in ways that traditional doctor visits can not. This article is designed to help you, the patient, learn a safe and effective way to manage your pain and treat common conditions
There are numerous manipulation techniques a doctor of osteopathic medicine (DO) may use. Common forms of manipulation used today that a patient may encounter include: 1  Cranial-sacral. 2  Counterstrain. 3  High velocity-low amplitude (HVLA) (the classic thrust technique). 4  Muscle energy. 5  Myofascial release. 
Tips to Minimize Back Pain. Here are some tips for preventing or minimizing the occurrence of back pain: Listen to your body, and don't push through pain during any exercise or activities. Set up your work and home office ergonomically.
manual therapy. A collection of techniques in which hand movements are skillfully applied to mobilize joints and soft tissues. These techniques may be used to alleviate pain, improve motion, induce relaxation, reduce edema, and improve pulmonary and musculoskeletal function. 
Manipulative Therapy. Manipulative therapy or manual therapy has its roots in the early years of physiotherapy when it was used as a means of promoting healing and relieving pain. Today manipulative therapy is a highly specialised area of the profession, however it may exist in different forms among other professions. Manipulative therapy is the term used for special handling techniques to promote healing of soft tissue. These techniques may include myofascial release, craniosacral techniques, joint mobilisation and massage therapy to name a few
Definitions [edit]. The three most notable forms of manual therapy are manipulation, mobilization and massage. Manipulation is the artful introduction of a rapid rotational, shear or distraction force into an articulation. 
Nearly every day, medical science unveils new discoveries from brain scans to anti-cancer drugs. In the midst of these wonders, it's easy to forget that sometimes what patients really need is a healing touch. Osteopathic physicians haven't forgotten. Osteopathic manipulative treatment, or OMT, is hands-on care. It involves using the hands to diagnose, treat, and prevent illness or injury. Using OMT, your osteopathic physician will move your muscles and joints using techniques including stretching, gentle pressure and resistance
Manipulation and Mental Health. While most people engage in manipulation from time to time, a chronic pattern of manipulation can indicate an underlying mental health concern. Manipulation is particularly common with personality disorder diagnoses such as borderline personality and narcissistic personality. 