In a limited company, the shareholders' liability is limited to the capital they'd originally invested. If such company becomes insolvent, the shareholders personal assets remain protected. Shares in a private limited company are not offered to the general public (distinguishing it from a public limited company-plc.). Since shares in a private limited company can't be offered to the general public, they also can't be traded on a public stock exchange. But private companies have less strict disclosure requirements than public ones, and so most companies remain private.
BREAKING DOWN 'Limited Company-LC'. In a limited company, the debts of the company are separate from those of the shareholders. As a result, should the company experience financial distress because of normal business activity, the personal assets of shareholders will not be at risk of being seized by creditors. A form of incorporation that limits the amount of liability undertaken by the company's shareholders. The naming convention for this type of corporate structure is commonly used in the United Kingdom. It is commonly known as a limited liability company (LLC) in the United States and other parts of the world.
DEFINITION of 'Limited Company-LC'. A form of incorporation that limits the amount of liability undertaken by the company's shareholders. The naming convention for this type of corporate structure is commonly used in the United Kingdom. It is commonly known as a limited liability company (LLC) in the United States and other parts of the world.
Limited company. A business structure used in Europe and Canada, in which shareholder responsibility for company debt is limited, usually to the amount he/she has invested in the company. In some cases, the liability of shareholders is limited to specific pre-determined amounts (which are stated in a memorandum). Abbreviated Ltd or plc
Ltd. is the abbreviation for limited. The term is designed to advise that the shareholders or owners of this type of enterprise is limited. Specifically, the shareholders or owners have limited responsibility for the debts and obligations of the business enterprise, according to InvestorWords.com. Warning. Merely adding ltd. to the end of a business's name does not, in and of itself, limit liability. Rather, the company must appropriately be established in the first place, complying with the organizational laws of the jurisdiction where created.
Definition. A type of company that offers limited liability, or legal protection for its shareholders but that places certain restrictions on its ownership. These restrictions are defined in the company's bylaws or regulations and are meant to prevent any hostile takeover attempt. The major ownership restrictions are:
DEFINITION of 'Ltd. An abbreviation of limited, Ltd. is a suffix that follows the name of a company, indicating that it's a private limited company-a kind of incorporation available under British and Irish, and some Commonwealth countries laws. Since shares in a private limited company can't be offered to the general public, they also can't be traded on a public stock exchange. But private companies have less strict disclosure requirements than public ones, and so most companies remain private.
In many countries a limited company business entity is a corporation in which the shareholders' financial liability is limited by shares.. It is often regarded as an attractive option for business owners-and is especially popular among those who own smaller companies. 