CPg. CPg is a controversial underground punk rock group formed by guitarist Zoltan Zoltán benkő and Bassist Antal kis In, Szeged hungary in. 1979 Zoltan, zoltán Nagy Vocalist bela béla Haska And bassist zoltan zoltán. Varga joined in 1981 the group. continues to perform Today.see ». more on definitions net 
The CpG sites or CG sites are regions of DNA where a cytosine nucleotide occurs next to a guanine nucleotide in the linear sequence of bases along its length. CpG is shorthand for —C—phosphate—G—, that is, cytosine and guanine separated by only one phosphate; phosphate links any two nucleosides together in DNA. The CpG notation is used to distinguish this linear sequence from the CG base-pairing of cytosine and guanine. The CpG notation can also be interpreted as the cytosine being 5 prime to the guanine base. Cytosines in CpG dinucleotides can be methylated to form 5-methylcytosine. In mammals, methylating the cytosine within a gene can change its expression, a mechanism that is part of a larger field of science studying gene regulation that is called epigenetics
CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (or CpG ODN) are short single-stranded synthetic DNA molecules that contain a cytosine triphosphate deoxynucleotide (C) followed by a guanine triphosphate deoxynucleotide (G). When these CpG motifs are unmethylated, they act as immunostimulants. CpG motifs are considered pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) due to their abundance in microbial genomes but their rarity in vertebrate genomes.
DEFINITION of 'Consumer Packaged Goods-CPG'. A type of good that is consumed every day by the average consumer. The goods that comprise this category are ones that need to be replaced frequently, compared to those that are usable for extended periods of time. BREAKING DOWN 'Consumer Packaged Goods-CPG'. The consumer packaged goods industry is one of the largest in North America, valued at approximately US$2 trillion. Although growth has slowed in this industry, companies that provide CPGs still benefit from large margins and strong balance sheets
Consumer packaged goods (CPG) are consumable goods such as food and beverages, footwear and apparel, tobacco, and cleaning products. In general, CPGs are things that get used up and have to be replaced frequently, in contrast to items that people usually keep for a long time, such as cars and furniture. 
CPG stands for consumer packaged goods. It is a type of commodity that consumers use or consume every day. Those that fall under the category of CPG are in need of constant replacement unlike other products that users can use for a long time. Marketing CPG is often tricky since there are many similar products on the market and because of consumer behavior. There are also some CPG companies that also act as retailers since they manufacture and sell their products on their stores. Examples of companies that manufacture and sell in their stores include high-end brands like Prade, Dolce & Gabanna, DKNY, Nike and Adidas just to name a few. If you like this article or our site.
Controlled Pore Glass (CPG) has been widely used as a support for the solid phase synthesis of oligonucleotides. It provides a unique combination of uniform pore size, dimensional stability in synthesis solvents and a pore network structure that facilitates rapid mass transfer during a synthesis. Embed™ universal CPG frits consists of CPG particles conformally coated with a very thin crosslinked polymer film based on polystyrene. The molecular structure of the polymer coating is designed to have a very high density of evenly distributed attachment points for optimum oligo synthesis.
Save. hxdyl/iStock/Getty Images. Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) is a very broad term that refers to any product that is intended to be used and replaced in a short period of time. The CPG industry consists of the companies that produce and market these goods. 1  The Top 10 Companies in the FMCG Sector. 2  What Are CPG Clients? CPG Companies. According to Investopedia, the consumer packaged goods industry is worth more than $2 trillion. Companies in the CPG industry include Proctor and Gamble, Coca Cola, Pepsi, Kellogg's, Unilever and Kraft.