Look up Paige in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Paige is a given name for males and females. It is of Latin origin (Byzantine Pagius págius young boy/helper mate of young, nobles from padius young, boy derived From Greek paidion) child and its meaning is young helper or young. child
It is pronounced as P EY-JH †. Forms of Paige include the name Padget, the name Padgett, the English Paget, the English Pagett, and the name Payge. In addition, Paige is a form of the English Page. Paige is popular as a baby girl name. The name increased in popularity from the 1950s up to the 1990s. Its usage peaked modestly in 1995 with 0.298% of baby girls being named Paige. Tweet. Paige has its origins in the Middle English language and it is used largely in English. The first name is derived from the surname, which is itself from the ordinary English word page (meaning 'servant, helper'). This word is in turn derived via Old French and Italian from the Greek 'paidion'.
What does Paige mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Paige is of French origin. The meaning of Paige is young assistant. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is page. French names have similar origins to those of other old-world European nations. They are often derivations of place names or trade names, or have their basis in history, mythology, religion or nature. They may also be created names. The popularity of hyphenated names is a unique feature of French given names.
Meaning of Paige. French name. In French, the name Paige means-assistant.The name Paige originated as an French name. The name Paige is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). French Name Meaning-assistant. 
Paige-Meaning of Paige. Tweet. Paige has its origins in the Middle English language and it is used largely in English. The first name is derived from the surname, which is itself from the ordinary English word page (meaning 'servant, helper'). This word is in turn derived via Old French and Italian from the Greek 'paidion'.
Paige /pai-ge/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Paige) is pronounced page. It is of English origin, and the meaning of Paige is young servant. A page in medieval households was usually a young boy whose service was the first step in his training as a knight. Paige is a very popular first name for females (#614 out of 4276, Top 14%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#1766 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Paige for girls
Meanings and history of the name Paige : | Edit. Paige \pa(i)-ge\ as a girl's name (also used as boy's name Paige), is pronounced page. It is of English origin, and the meaning of Paige is young servant. A page in medieval households was usually a young boy whose service was the first step in his training as a knight. 
French Meaning: The name Paige is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Paige is: Attendant. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Paige is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Paige is: Page. SoulUrge Number: 6
In modern times Paige has become a given name, generally given to girls living in North America since the middle of the 20th century, but also occasionally to boys. Page, Paij, Payj, and Payge are alternative spellings for the given name. Paige is a given name for males and females.