If you’re ready to show up on time and give all you’ve got, you’re going to succeed.”. (USA TODAY Sports Images). In a post to ESPN.com, Jerry Crasnick catches up with Dinesh Patel and Rinku Singh, the Indian pitchers who pitched in the Pirates’ system and are the subjects of the new movie, Million Dollar Arm. Patel never got past rookie ball, pitching in parts of two seasons before returning to India to attend college. 
By winning the Million Dollar Arm contest and signing with the Pirates, the kid who grew up in a rural farming village earned enough money to build a brand-new house for his family back home in India. He is no longer playing baseball, but it remains a big part of his new life. No, not Cleveland Indians. This is late last June, deep into the filming of Million Dollar Arm, and the actor/weekend baseball player Jon Hamm has just finished explaining that some monkeys in India are absolutely, positively not to be trusted.
After the success of its first year, Million Dollar Arm returned to India in 2011 for a second round, with the same goal in mind: find a young, undiscovered Indian athlete with the raw talent, drive, and determination to become a baseball pitcher.
Comments. Million Dollar Arm is the latest baseball movie about the incredible story of Indian baseball prospects Dinesh Patel and Rinku Singh, who were given a chance to make it in professional baseball despite not having a background in the sport. No, not Cleveland Indians. This is late last June, deep into the filming of Million Dollar Arm, and the actor/weekend baseball player Jon Hamm has just finished explaining that some monkeys in India are absolutely, positively not to be trusted.
J. B. Bernstein and pitchers Dinesh Patel and Rinku Singh attend the premiere of Disney's Million Dollar Arm at the El Capitan Theatre on May 6, 2014 in Hollywood, California.(David Livingston/Getty).fter the success of its first year, Million Dollar Arm returned to India in 2011 for a second round, with the same goal in mind: find a young, undiscovered Indian athlete with the raw talent, drive, and determination to become a baseball pitcher.
Singh was one of nine siblings who all lived in the family's one-room house. The home had electricity but relied on well water. Singh threw javelin and played cricket as a child. He was a junior national javelin medalist. In early 2008, Singh entered an Indian reality television show, The Million Dollar Arm. The contest was created by American sports agent J. B. Bernstein and his partners Ash Vasudevan and Will Chang to find the individual in the country who could throw the fastest and most accurate baseball.n 2009, Columbia Pictures purchased the screen rights to the story of Singh and Patel. The project stalled and eventually producers Joe Roth and Mark Ciardi set the film up at Walt Disney Pictures. Upon acquiring Million Dollar Arm, Disney hired Tom McCarthy to write the film.
Singh was signed by the Pittsburgh Pirates organization after he won a pitching contest on a 2008 reality television show, Million Dollar Arm. He was the first Indian to play professional baseball and has spent several seasons in the minor leagues, reaching as high as the AA level. In 2009, Columbia Pictures purchased the screen rights to the story of Singh and Patel. The project stalled and eventually producers Joe Roth and Mark Ciardi set the film up at Walt Disney Pictures. Upon acquiring Million Dollar Arm, Disney hired Tom McCarthy to write the film.
Singh and Patel are aspiring baseball players who won a televised pitching contest in India called “Million Dollar Arm.” The reality show was organized by Los Angeles sports agent J.B. Bernstein, who was in search of Major League talent on the subcontinent.s for the TV series “Million Dollar Arm,” Bernstein expects 500,000 prospects to turn up for the third season this fall. The irony will be that, while the show’s first stars were unfamiliar with American culture, a lot of the latest hopefuls will turn up because of a movie made in Hollywood 8,600 milles away.
Rinku Singh (born August 8, 1988 in Lucknow, India) is a left-handed baseball pitcher with the Pittsburgh Pirates organization.n 2009, Columbia Pictures purchased the screen rights to the story of Singh and Patel. The project stalled and eventually producers Joe Roth and Mark Ciardi set the film up at Walt Disney Pictures. Upon acquiring Million Dollar Arm, Disney hired Tom McCarthy to write the film.