Turkey nesting means behavioral and habitat use changes for turkey hens. Most subspecies of wild turkey are gregarious, but turkey hens change their behavior during the nesting season. When a turkey hen starts looking for a nest site she will avoid all other hens. Once a site is selected, this behavior continues to occur in an area of a half mile around the selected nesting site.
WILD TURKEYS. Turkeys prosper in a mix of forest and agricultural lands. Because of habitat loss and unregulated market hunting, Michigan wild turkey populations plummeted in the late 1800's and by the turn of the 20th century few observations were reported. 
Nesting. Turkey nests have been found in a variety of habitats, but nest are usually situated in close proximity to woody vegetation. Sites are primarily selected for their undergrowth characteristics. Nests are often found at the base of trees or against fallen logs. Though turkeys will not usually select wide-open grasslands for nesting, hens will often select a nest site near a trail or open area. This allows for access to the nest and the trail or open area may be used for a feeding area during incubation. Most subspecies of wild turkey are gregarious, but turkey hens change their behavior during the nesting season. When a turkey hen starts looking for a nest site she will avoid all other hens. Once a site is selected, this behavior continues to occur in an area of a half mile around the selected nesting site.
The wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is native to North America and is the heaviest member of the diverse Galliformes. It is the same species as the domestic turkey, which was originally derived from a southern Mexican subspecies of wild turkey (not the related ocellated turkey). 
Additional information can be found at DEC's Language Assistance Page. Home » Animals, Plants, Aquatic Life » Birds » Bird Species » Wild Turkey » Wild Turkey Nesting Habitat. For optimal reproduction turkeys require good nesting habitat. Wild turkey hens begin to nest before most of the new growth begins in the spring; therefore, at least for initial nests, hens need some residual cover from the previous year to conceal their nest from predators. Wild Turkey Nesting Habitat. The following are some suggestions for managing some specific habitat types for nesting habitat. Remember that these are suggestions only, there are no hard and fast rules and you can decide what methods you wish to employ on your land.
Today's turkey population descended from a successful release of turkeys that occurred between 1971 and 1973 when 29 adult wild turkeys were trapped in Missouri and transplanted to Houston County in extreme southeastern Minnesota. Aggressive Turkeys. Remember that wild turkeys have a pecking order and that habituated birds may respond to you as they do to another turkey. The best defense against aggressive or persistent turkeys is to prevent the birds from becoming habituated in the first place by being bold to them.
Wild turkeys are polygamous birds, which means they do not have the same mate for life. The male turkey will mate with many females within a season but it is unlikely that a female will mate with more than one male. On rare occasions if the first nest of eggs fails, the female will lay another. 
1 The eastern wild turkey is one of six recognized subspecies of turkey in the United States, but is the only subspecies found in Illinois. 2  Habitat loss and over hunting eliminated wild turkey from Illinois by 1910, but they were successfully reintroduced. The Illinois Wildlife Code protects wild turkeys. It is illegal to kill or remove wild turkey or to destroy their nests or eggs. If you need assistance with a wild turkey problem in an urban area contact a local Illinois Department of Natural Resources District Wildlife Biologist.
Wild turkeys are active during the day and roost in trees overnight. They nest on the ground and the young turkeys (poults) are able to leave the nest shortly after hatching. They immediately begin foraging for insects, but stay in a brood with the hen until their flight feathers have developed. Aggressive Turkeys. Remember that wild turkeys have a pecking order and that habituated birds may respond to you as they do to another turkey. The best defense against aggressive or persistent turkeys is to prevent the birds from becoming habituated in the first place by being bold to them.
Raccoons, foxes, snakes, owls, hawks, and other large birds will kill them. Flocks of turkeys have a pecking order. Usually the oldest birds and the biggest birds rule over the younger and smaller birds. Wild Turkeys do most of their traveling and eating in the daylight. Wild Turkeys travel in small flocks. For most of the year, they are single-sex flocks. Females are with females, males with males. Young turkeys follow their mothers. Wild Turkeys have good eyesight and hearing, and they are very fast runners.