The seminal vesicles (Latin: glandulae vesiculosae), vesicular glands, or seminal glands, are a pair of simple tubular glands posteroinferior to the urinary bladder of some male mammals. Seminal vesicles are located within the pelvis. Each vesicle forms as an outpocketing of the wall of the ampulla of one vas deferens. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. Both the urethra and vas deferens are derived from the mesonephric ducts, structures that develop from mesoderm
Making the world better, one answer at a time. In male animals, the seminal vesicles are two pouches, each connected to one vas deferens. They produce an additional fluid that combines with the sperm to produce semen. The seminal vesicle is also called seminal gland. In some animals they also store the semen for later release. The seminal vesicles are convoluted pouch-like structures lying posterior to the base of the urinary bladder, in front of the rectum. They secrete an alkaline viscous fluid co … ntaining fructose, prostaglandins and fibrinogen that make up about 60% of the fluid volume of semen.
The seminal vesicles are paired organs of the male genitourinary system. Specifically, they are genital organs. The male genital organs include the penis, testes, excretory genital ducts, ductus deferens, seminal vesicles, prostate, and bulbourethral glands. Of these organs, the seminal vesicles, prostate, and bulbourethral glands are considered accessory glandular structures.
Introduction. The seminal vesicles are accessory glands of the male reproductive system. They are a pair of contorted or twisted tubes, which are located between the bladder and the rectum. At puberty, the seminal vesicles form sacs and contribute up to 85% of the seminal fluid. The seminal vesicles contribute up to 85% of the seminal fluid, with the prostate gland secreting the majority of the rest. The seminal vesicles secrete a yellow, alkaline and viscous fluid that contains fructose, fibrinogen, prostaglandins and vitamin C, as well as other specific proteins.
The seminal vesicles are convoluted pouch-like structures lying posterior to the base of the urinary bladder, in front of the rectum. They secrete an alkaline viscous fluid co … ntaining fructose, prostaglandins and fibrinogen that make up about 60% of the fluid volume of semen. Contributed by: V.G =) Often called as vescicular glands,seminal vescicles are present postero inferior to the urinary bladder of male mammals.They release a fluid which finally becomes semen.It is alkaline in nature and helps in neutralising the vaginal acidity.
Seminal gland. The seminal gland, more commonly referred to as the seminal vesicle, holds the liquid that mixes with sperm to form semen. Semen combines fluid elements from the epididymis, seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and vas deferens. Each body part plays a key role in semen production. The fluids help the sperm swim towards the egg and keep the sperm nourished during the transit process. 
The seminal vesicles are a pair of glands that are positioned below the urinary bladder and lateral to the vas deferens. Each vesicle consists of a single tube folded and coiled on itself, with occasional diverticula in its wall. Each vesicle forms as an outpocketing of the wall of the ampulla of one vas deferens. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. Both the urethra and vas deferens are derived from the mesonephric ducts, structures that develop from mesoderm
The accessory glands of the male reproductive system are the seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and the bulbourethral glands. These glands secrete fluids that enter the urethra. 
The seminal vesicles are accessory glands of the male reproductive system. They are a pair of contorted or twisted tubes, which are located between the bladder and the rectum. The seminal vesicles contribute up to 85% of the seminal fluid, with the prostate gland secreting the majority of the rest. The seminal vesicles secrete a yellow, alkaline and viscous fluid that contains fructose, fibrinogen, prostaglandins and vitamin C, as well as other specific proteins.