Softwood Species. Australia has a number of native softwood species — namely, the conifers or cone-bearers — including hoop pine, celery top pine, white cypress, to name just a few. These species occur naturally and are grown in plantations throughout Australia, particularly in the eastern states and Tasmania. 
Design and technology: Softwood types including; scots pine, parana pine, spruce, yellow cedar and european redwood. Softwood types grained softwood but The wood picker site BBC Bitesize Softwoods Softwoods come from coniferous trees which have needles instead of leaves. • Softwoods grow faster than hardwoods so are cheaper. • Often used as building material. • Trees grow tall and straight which makes it easier for the manufacturer to cut long straight planks of wood. Grain image Softwood uses Example productScots pine-A straight-knotty.
Uses of Hardwood vs Softwood. In many cases, hardwoods and softwoods are both used for many of the same purposes, with more emphasis placed on the type of hardwood or softwood and how dense it is. Generally, though, softwoods are cheaper and easier to work with than hardwoods. As such, they make up the bulk of all wood used in the world, with about 80% of all timber being a softwood. Density. Most hardwoods have a higher density than most softwoods. Most softwoods have a lower density than most hardwoods. Cost. Hardwood is typically more expensive than softwood. Softwood is typically less expensive compared to hardwood. Growth. Hardwood has a slower growth rate.
Softwood lumber is timber obtained from coniferous evergreen trees. The timber may be processed or used as it is for various applications. Various types of softwood lumbers are available. Levels of resilience vary from one softwood species to the next. However, softwoods are generally not as hardy as hardwood. More than 60 species of the tree exist. This much-loved softwood enjoys wide usage as a Christmas tree. Fir lumber is one of the weaker softwood types. Wood from the tree is not considered suitable for general timber use.
Softwood Plywood is used mainly in the construction industry for structural purposes. There are many grades, sizes and thicknesses of softwood plywood depending how they are to be used however in the highest of grades they are sometimes used for decorative purposes such as furniture and cabinet making. 
used for making stuff like childrens toys etc. Softwood has a huge range of applications: it is the primary material used for building components, and is also found in furniture and other products such as millwork (mouldings, doors, windows). Softwood is also used in the production of paper, and for various types of board such as MDF (medium-density fiberboard). The finer softwoods have many special uses. they are used for making window frames,doors,frames,t.v. stands,flooring and beds. people use these all the time actually even to make toys for children. Softwood is a type of wood that is cheap and only has two types of cells. Softwoods: These are produced by the cone bearing trees (conifers). They are generally evergreen … and have easily recognizable needle-like leaves. They grow in cold or cool temperate climates.
Softwood. Softwood is used to describe wood from trees that are known as gymnosperms. Conifers are an example. It may also be used to describe trees, which tend to be evergreen, notable exceptions being bald cypress and the larches. 
Scots Pine, a typical and well-known softwood. Softwood is wood from gymnosperm trees such as conifers. Softwood is the source of about 80% of the world's production of timber, with traditional centres of production being the Baltic region (including Scandinavia and Russia), North America and China.