During the metabolism of protein in the body, the liver creates ammonia, which is broken down into a by-product called urea. Kidneys filter excess urea into the urine and in sweat, but some goes into the bloodstream as serum urea. Kidney Problems. Serum urea concentration is important to determine if the kidneys are functioning correctly. A high level of serum urea means the kidneys are not filtering properly. High serum urea could indicate kidney problems.
Dehydration. If a patient's serum urea level is higher than normal, it could mean the person is dehydrated. When the body is dehydrated, the kidneys will reabsorb more urea when ADH (antidiuretic hormone) is produced to reduce additional loss of fluids. Kidney Problems. Serum urea concentration is important to determine if the kidneys are functioning correctly. A high level of serum urea means the kidneys are not filtering properly. High serum urea could indicate kidney problems.
The creatinine blood test is used to assess kidney function. It is frequently ordered along with a BUN (blood urea nitrogen) test or as part of a basic or comprehensive metabolic panel (BMP or CMP), groups of tests that are performed to evaluate the function of the body's major organs. Creatinine is a waste product produced by muscles from the breakdown of a compound called creatine. Almost all creatinine is filtered from the blood by the kidneys and released into the urine, so blood levels are usually a good indicator of how well the kidneys are working.
Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) measures the amount of urea nitrogen in bloodstream. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females. Generally, a high blood urea nitrogen level means that the kidneys are not performing well, particularly if the result is above 50mg/dl. But, an elevated blood urea nitrogen may be due to urinary tract obstruction, congestive heart failure, certain medicines, fever, etc.
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of urea nitrogen found in your blood. BUN levels help your doctor see how well your kidneys are working. The test may be used along with other measurements to help diagnose a kidney disorder or find out how well your treatment for kidney disease is working. 
Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN): Urea nitrogen is a normal waste product in your blood that comes from the breakdown of protein from the foods you eat and from your body metabolism. It is normally removed from your blood by your kidneys, but when kidney function slows down, the BUN level rises. If you have kidney disease ask your doctor which tests you will have and how often they will be done. Speak to your doctor about your results. If your numbers are not in the normal range, ask how to improve them. Serum Creatinine: Creatinine is a waste product in your blood that comes from muscle activity.
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of nitrogen in your blood that comes from the waste product urea. Urea is made when protein is broken down in your body. Urea is made in the liver and passed out of your body in the urine. A BUN test is done to see how well your kidneys are working. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test is done to: 1  See if your kidneys are working normally. 2  See if your kidney disease is getting worse. 3  See if treatment of your kidney disease is working. 4  Check for severe dehydration.
The liver produces urea in the urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein. Normal human adult blood should contain between 6 to 20 mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml (6–20 mg/ dL) of blood. Individual laboratories may have different reference ranges as the procedure may vary. To convert from mg/dL of blood urea nitrogen to mmol/L of urea, multiply by 0.357 (each molecule of urea having 2 nitrogens, each of molar mass 14g/mol) (BUN is the mass of nitrogen within urea/volume, not the mass of urea).
Urea: A nitrogen-containing substance normally cleared from the blood by the kidney into the urine. Diseases that compromise the function of the kidney often lead to increased blood levels of urea, as measured by the blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test. Urea is of major historical significanc