Granite is an igneous rock composed of mostly two minerals: quartz and feldspar. It is an intrusive rock, meaning that it crystallized from magma that cooled far below the earth's surface. Its name is derived from the Latin word 'granum', which means 'grain', a reference to the easily-seen minerals in the rock. 
Granite /ˈɡraenɨt/ ˈɡrænɨt is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in. Texture granites can be predominantly, white, pink or gray in, color depending on their. mineralogy Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy. The word granite comes from the Latin granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a holocrystalline rock.
Strong, Durable, Unique & Hard. Granite characteristics include strength and durability. This unique and elegant natural stone is one of the oldest, hardest, and strongest stones available. A truly beautiful natural stone with HUNDREDS of colors and patterns to choose from. This stone starts out as a molten mass of magma and then forms into the rock granite as this magma cools... usually over millions of years. Granites are classified differently in scientific and industry terms. 1  Geologists classify rocks according to their minerals and origins.
Rocks formed from felsic magma include granite (see image link), granodiorite (see image link), dacite, and rhyolite (see image link). All of these rock types are light in color because of the dominance of quartz, potassium and sodium feldspars, and plagioclase feldspar minerals (Figure 10e-1). 
Granite is a light-colored igneous rock with grains large enough to be visible with the unaided eye. It forms from the slow crystallization of magma below Earth’s surface. Granite is composed mainly of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of mica, amphiboles and other minerals. This mineral composition usually gives granite a red, pink, gray or white color with dark mineral grains visible throughout the rock. Granite is the best-known igneous rock. Three common usages of the word granite are explained below. Granite is a coarse-grained, light-colored igneous rock composed mainly of feldspars and quartz with minor amounts of mica and amphibole minerals. This simple definition enables students to easily identify the rock based upon a visual inspection.
Many, many years ago, deep underground, volcanic action melted rock into liquid magma. The magma cooled and solidified, and the result is called igneous rock. Granite is one type of igneous rock. Granite’s crystal structure comes from quartz and feldspars. There are many ranges of colors of granite depending primarily on the feldspars. It may also contain mica or other dark minerals. 
Characteristics of granite. Granite is made up of three minerals: quartz, feldspar and mica. It is a hard, crystalline rock, which is very resistant to erosion. It is an intrusive igneous rock. The main processes that affect it are freeze-thaw and hydrolysis. 