Bluetooth is a wireless technology standard for exchanging data over short distances (using short-wavelength UHF radio waves in the ISM band from 2.4 to 2.485 GHz) from fixed and mobile devices, and building personal area networks (PANs). Radio Frequency Communications (RFCOMM) is a cable replacement protocol used to generate a virtual serial data stream. RFCOMM provides for binary data transport and emulates EIA-232 (formerly RS-232) control signals over the Bluetooth baseband layer, i.e. it is a serial port emulation.
Bluetooth uses the microwave radio frequency spectrum in the 2.402 GHz to 2.480 GHz range. Maximum power output from a Bluetooth radio is 100 mW for class 1, 2.5 mW for class 2, and 1 mW for class 3 devices. Even the maximum power output of class 1 is a lower level than the lowest powered mobile phones. Radio Frequency Communications (RFCOMM) is a cable replacement protocol used to generate a virtual serial data stream. RFCOMM provides for binary data transport and emulates EIA-232 (formerly RS-232) control signals over the Bluetooth baseband layer, i.e. it is a serial port emulation.
WebWise Team | 10th October 2012. Bluetooth is a way of exchanging data wirelessly over short distances, and is an attempt to do away with your computer’s jungle of wiring. Using a special radio frequency to transmit data, it creates a short range network. 1 Turn on, or enable, Bluetooth. 2  Ensure your device is ‘ visible ’ and not ‘hidden’, so other nearby devices can pick up the signal. 3  Give your device a name to identify it when connecting to other compatible equipment.
General Answers: Q: What is Bluetooth? A: Bluetooth is the name for a short-range radio frequency (RF) technology that operates at 2.4 GHz and is capable of transmitting voice and data. The effective range of Bluetooth devices is 32 feet (10 meters). 
Best Answer: The Radio layer defines the requirements for a Bluetooth transceiver operating in the 2.4 GHz ISM band. i wanna connect my phone using bluetooth and it's not workin and the computer says make sure ur blutooth radio is conected and turned on.
Photo: Cables can be a real nuisance—that's the problem wireless technologies such as Bluetooth can help to solve. Bluetooth is a similar radio-wave technology, but it's mainly designed for communicating over short distances less than about 10m or 30ft. We're all use to wireless communication by now, even if we don't always realize it. Radio receivers and television sets pick up programs beamed in radio waves hundreds (possibly even thousands) of km/miles through the air.
Bluetooth sends and receives radio waves in a band of 79 different frequencies (channels) centered on 2.45 GHz, set apart from radio, television, and cellphones, and reserved for use by industrial, scientific, and medical gadgets. We're all use to wireless communication by now, even if we don't always realize it. Radio receivers and television sets pick up programs beamed in radio waves hundreds (possibly even thousands) of km/miles through the air.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Radio layer defines the requirements for a Bluetooth transceiver operating in the 2.4 GHz ISM band. In simple words Bluetooth Radio is the small device that will receive or send the bluetooth signal. Usually came in a form of a cable connected to your PC, in a USB port. Some PC's have a blootooth radio on motherboard. i wanna connect my phone using bluetooth and it's not workin and the computer says make sure ur blutooth radio is conected and turned on.
Bluetooth is a radio system (commonly referred to as a wireless technology) that transmits data between devices using a method called 'frequency-hopping spread spectrum'. The radio frequency range used for Bluetooth transmissions is 2.4 - 2.48 Ghz on the ISM band (Industrial, Scientific and Medical). This is basically a low-power, short-range communication system that is robust enough to resist a moderate amount of interference and is therefore quite reliable. Consumer devices that have Bluetooth built-in typically either come with Class 1 or class 2 radios. This is basically a measure of the signal power and therefore how far it extends between your devices. Where power consumption is critical (like a smartphone), class 2 will be used