Avocados are a creamy, buttery fruit grown in warm climates and often enjoyed in Mexican and South American cuisine. Also known as an alligator pear or butter fruit, the versatile avocado is the only fruit that provides a substantial amount of monounsaturated fat (the healthy kind).
Avocados are high in fat. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories.
Eaten with other foods, your body is better able to absorb the nutrients, such as alpha-and beta-carotene and lutein. Avocado is one of the few fruits that will provide you with good fats. That means it can help keep your cholesterol levels already in the healthy range, and help lower your risk for heart disease. Avocados are one of the best fruits for your health. See: The Best and Worst Vegetables to Eat.
While guacamole is arguably the most popular way to eat avocado, you can also puree and toss with pasta, substitute for butter or oil in your favorite baked good recipes, or spread or slice onto sandwiches. When ordering at a restaurant, remember that not all avocado dishes are created equal.
Avocado is a tree. The fruit, a popular food, is a good source of potassium and vitamin D. The fruit, leaves, and seeds are used to make medicine. Avocado fruit is used to lower cholesterol levels, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate menstrual flow.
Avocados are an excellent source of heart-healthy monounsaturated fat that is easily burned for energy, while being low in fructose. Not surprisingly, improved weight management is one of the health benefits of avocado consumption, and its high-fat, low-sugar content is likely a key factor contributing to this effect.
Summary. Not just for guacamole, sliced avocados lend a buttery texture and delicious flavor to sandwiches and salads. But the health benefits of avocados are stellar, especially with the lipid content that allows your body to absorb nutrients they wouldn't otherwise.
Nutrient All-Star. Avocados offer nearly 20 vitamins and minerals in every serving, including potassium (which helps control blood pressure), lutein (which is good for your eyes), and folate (which is crucial for cell repair and during pregnancy).