A business strategy is used to chart a business's directions and goals. Individual teams within a company often implement the tactics developed to support a business strategy. Business strategies usually include a measurement component as well. The measurement component of the business strategy is derived from the overall goals established to accomplish the business mission. Goals are broken down, usually by both business unit and time estimated to accomplish them
8 people found this helpful. You need to always have a good corporate strategy in mind if you want to maximize your profits for the future. 4 people found this helpful. The corporate strategy was developed by the team of professionals that communicated the vision, mission, and goals as well as the strategy. 10 people found this helpful. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Company strategy is a term that is used to describe the combination of policies, processes, and procedures that are employed to help a company operate according to its mission statement and achieve its short-term and long-term goals. If employees of a company have not understood the mission or if their strategies are not getting the company closer to the mission, then staff performance is in serious need of oversight. Goal oriented performance measures can help employees get back on track.
In short, your business strategy is a summary of how your business plans to achieve it goals and improves and sustains it position in the industry. This can be a short single page full of bullet points or a complete booklet that defines the purpose of the business, its strengths, target market, and product line-up. 
A Definition of Business Strategy. The definition of business strategy is a long term plan of action designed to achieve a particular goal or set of goals or objectives. Strategy is management's game plan for strengthening the performance of the enterprise. It states how business should be conduct to achieve the desired goals. Without a strategy management has no roadmap to guide them. Creating a business strategy is a core management function.It must be said that having a good strategy and executing the strategy well, does not guarantee success.
Business strategies outling methods and tactics for reaching goals. Cash flow image by Blue Moon from Fotolia.com. A well-devised business strategy aligns with the core business mission and purpose, and aims to act as a road map for sustained profitability, competitiveness and growth. Companies generate strategies for each area of business operations. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. A business strategy typically is a document that clearly articulates the direction a business will pursue and the steps it will take to achieve its goals. Business strategies usually include a measurement component as well. The measurement component of the business strategy is derived from the overall goals established to accomplish the business mission. Goals are broken down, usually by both business unit and time estimated to accomplish them
Strategy is important because the resources available to achieve these goals are usually limited. Strategy generally involves setting goals, determining actions to achieve the goals, and mobilizing resources to execute the actions. A strategy describes how the ends (goals) will be achieved by the means (resources). Strategy can be intended or can emerge as a pattern of activity as the organization adapts to its environment or competes.
Henry Mintzberg from McGill University defined strategy as a pattern in a stream of decisions to contrast with a view of strategy as planning, while Max McKeown (2011) argues that strategy is about shaping the future and is the human attempt to get to desirable ends with available means. Strategy can be intended or can emerge as a pattern of activity as the organization adapts to its environment or competes.