School education in Australia is compulsory between certain ages as specified by state or territory legislation. Depending on the state or territory, and date of birth of the child, school is compulsory from the age of five to six to the age of fifteen to seventeen. In recent years, over three quarters of students stay at school until they are seventeen. 
This year, a dropout prevention bill was reintroduced in Kentucky, helped with some support from First Lady Jane Beshear. The state's House Education Committee passed a bill Jan. 17 that would require students to stay in school until graduation or age 18, according to the Associated Press. Delaware Rep. Debra Heffernan proposed a bill this year, prior to Obama’s announcement, to bump the state’s requirement from 16 to 18
Comments. By Valerie Strauss January 24, 2012 Follow @valeriestrauss. President Obama said in his 2012 State of the Union address that he wants states to change their laws to require that all students be required to stay in high school until they graduate or turn 18 years old. The age at which students can legally leave school varies in the states, though most have set the minimum drop-out age at 16 or 17. There are already about 15 states, plus the District of Columbia, that have set their dropout age at 18. They include Florida and Virginia
: Years 11 and 12. ‘Students in NSW will be required to remain at school until the end of Year 10; and after completing Year 10, students will be required to remain in some form of education, training or employment until they turn 17’. Check this NSW Public Schools site.
Starting age for first year of school: requirements for each state. Each state in Australia has a different minimum age cut-off date for the first year of school. The list below refers to the age at which a child is eligible to begin school, not the age at which a child is required to start school. Most states require children to be enrolled at school by the age of six. 
Primary schools and high schools are based on the age of the student, so that every room has the same age group, with a student hardly having to repeat a year. The students with problems in their studies may be put into special classes to help with academic deficits. The majority of the children start in the primary school with the age of 5 years (year 1) and the child studies in the primary school until they are around 12 years old (year 7). 
How Long Must Students Stay in School. Students are required to attend school until age 18 in 21 states and the District of Columbia. Three states—New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and South Dakota—raised the minimum legal dropout age within the past two years. Since the president's Jan. 24 speech, at least four states—Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, and New Jersey—have begun debating raising their attendance-age requirements, while Kentucky Gov. Steven L. Beshear, for the third straight year, is calling on lawmakers in that state to raise the attendance age from 16 to 18.
A: You have to stay in school or training or approved work (or in a combination of approved options) until the end of the year in which you turn 17 and 6 months or you have reached the age of 18 years, whichever happens first. Back to top. You no longer have to attend school or training or approved work (or in combination of approved options) if you satisfy the minimum requirements for graduation from secondary school established under the School Curriculum and Standards Act (1997) .