Your Guide to Maldives Hotels. Maldives is a small slice of paradise in the Indian Ocean. Here you are surrounded by bright skies, blue waters, and sandy beaches. When you are planning to vacation here, there are many hotels in Maldives to choose from. 
Hide Alert. Indulge in an exotic escape from the stress of daily life. Be whisked away by seaplane to our paradise island resort at the Conrad Maldives Rangali Island hotel. Exceptional hospitality awaits you on this private island surrounded by the Indian Ocean.
Discover Maldives. Welcome to the Maldives, where sands are white as the smiles of the locals, where fish swim happily in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean, where the weather is a dream, and the deep rays of the sun waits to engulf you in their arms. 
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. Ocean it is located southwest Of india And Sri lanka in The Laccadive. sea The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef (collectively called Link Road) and the total length of the road is 14 km (9 mi).
The Maldives (Dhivehi: ދިވެހިރާއްޖެ Dhivehi Raajje) are an archipelago of 1,192 coral islands grouped into 26 coral atolls (200 inhabited islands, plus 80 islands with tourist resorts) in the Indian Ocean. They lie south-southwest of India and are considered part of Southern Asia. 
Maldives, officially the Republic of the Maldives and also referred to as the Maldive Islands, is an island nation in the Indian Ocean consisting of a double chain of twenty-six atolls, oriented north-south, that lie between Minicoy Island (the southernmost part of Lakshadweep, India) and the Chagos Archipelago. The Maldives archipelago is located on top of the Chagos-Maldives-Laccadive Ridge, a vast submarine mountain range in the Indian Ocean. Maldives also form a terrestrial ecoregion together with the Chagos and the Lakshadweep.
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. ocean The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef (collectively called Link Road) and the total length of the road is 14 km (9 mi).
The name Maldives may derive from Tamil maalai (garland) and theevu (island), or මාල දිවයින Maala Divaina (Necklace Islands) in Sinhala. The Maldivian people are called Dhivehin. The word Theevu (archaic Dheevu, related to Tamil தீவு dheevu) means island, and Dhives (Dhivehin) means islanders (i.e., Maldivians). The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef (collectively called Link Road) and the total length of the road is 14 km (9 mi).