One of the most widely recognized and important characteristics of plants is their ability to conduct photosynthesis, in effect, to make their own food by converting light energy into chemical energy. This process occurs in almost all plant species and is carried out in specialized organelles known as chloroplasts. All of the green structures in plants, including stems and unripened fruit, contain chloroplasts, but the majority of photosynthesis activity in most plants occurs in the leaves. On the average, the chloroplast density on the surface of a leaf is about one-half million per square millimeter. Chloroplasts are one of several different types of plastids, plant cell organelles that are involved in energy storage and the synthesis of metabolic material
THYLAKOID. Mitochondria. are the powerhouses of the cell because they “burn” or break the chemical bonds of glucose to release energy to do work in a cell. Remember that this energy originally came from the sun and was stored in chemical bonds by plants during photosynthesis. Glucose. and other. The chloroplast allows plants to harvest energy from sunlight to carry on a process known as Photosynthesis. Specialized pigments in the chloroplast (including the common green pigment chlorophyll) absorb sunlight and use this energy to combine carbon dioxide and water and make GLUCOSE and OXYGEN.
Where is chlorophyll found in the chloroplast? In which part of a plant would you expect to find the most chloroplasts and why? How would the number of mitochondria in an insect's wing compare to the amount found in other cells in an insect's body? Explain your answer. FIGURE 2-THYLAKOID. Mitochondria. are the powerhouses of the cell because they “burn” or break the chemical bonds of glucose to release energy to do work in a cell. Remember that this energy originally came from the sun and was stored in chemical bonds by plants during photosynthesis.
You can find chloroplasts throughout a plant, but the cells with the most chloroplasts are in the leaves. The root cells have the least chloroplasts, and their chloropla … sts are also the least active, having no activity at all. 2 people found this useful. Answered. In Biology. The leaf would have the most chloroplasts because it is the major  structure for photosynthesis in a plant.
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. eBook
Plant cells are remarkable in that they have two organelles specialized for energy production: chloroplasts, which create energy via photosynthesis, and mitochondria, which generate energy through respiration, a particularly important process when light is unavailable. All of the green structures in plants, including stems and unripened fruit, contain chloroplasts, but the majority of photosynthesis activity in most plants occurs in the leaves. On the average, the chloroplast density on the surface of a leaf is about one-half million per square millimeter.
Report Abuse. Leaf. Glucose (C6H12O6) and oxygen. Cellular respiration is the process of breaking down glucose (food), in the presences of oxygen, to produce energy that is directly usable by the cells for biochemical reactions (ATP). Phil · 7 years ago. Best Answer: The leaf because it is the major structure for photosynthesis in a plant. Specifically, in the spongy & palisade mesophyll regions of the leaf. Oxygen
The leaf because it is the major structure for photosynthesis in a plant. The leaf would have the most chloroplasts because it is the major  structure for photosynthesis in a plant.