Coccinellidae are a family of beetles belonging to the superfamily Cucujoidea, which in turn belongs to the series Cucujiformia within the suborder Polyphaga of the beetles (Coleoptera). Their relatives within the Cucujoidea are the Endomychidae (handsome fungus beetles) and Corylophidae (minute fungus beetles). Worldwide, nearly 6,000 species of ladybirds are known, of which 105 are currently reported to occur in Florida (Table 1). As knowledge about insects increased, the name became extended to all its relatives, members of the beetle family Coccinellidae. Of course these insects are not birds, but butterflies are not flies, nor are dragonflies, stoneflies, mayflies, and fireflies, which all are true common names in folklore, not invented names.
“The thing that’s interesting about this one is that it doesn’t have any relatives in the whole of South Africa.”. The diving beetle, Capelatus prykei, is about two-fifths of an inch long — large compared with other diving beetles. Although diving beetles are found worldwide in ponds, lakes, rivers and streams — there are more than 4,000 species — DNA analysis revealed that the new species has no relatives in Africa. Other populations may have died out because of urban development, Dr. Bilton said. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2015, on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Insects: Beetle Found, No Sign of Relatives.
Status. The American burying beetle, (Nicrophorus americanus) Oliver is a member of the carrion beetle family Silphidae. Carrion beetles, as their name implies, are an important part of a vast host of scavengers that are responsible for recycling decaying materials back into the ecosystem. 
Dynastinae or rhinoceros beetles are a subfamily of the scarab beetle family (Scarabaeidae). Other common names – some for particular groups of rhinoceros beetles – are for example Hercules beetles, unicorn beetles or horn beetles. Over 300 species of rhinoceros beetles are known. The Dynastinae are among the largest of beetles, reaching more than 150 mm (6 in) in length, but are completely harmless to humans because they cannot bite or sting.
This means that about a third of all known animal species are beetle species. A very large proportion of them, in turn, are leaf beetles, those in the Chrysomeloidea superfamily, and a very large proportion of those are in the Chrysomelidae family. 
Beetles belong to the insect order Coleoptera. This is the largest order of insects. There are more than a quarter million species of beetles in the world. In North America, scientists have identified more than 25,000 beetle species. 
Beetles species, common and family name with typical body shape. Invertebrates home-Taxonomy-Definitions. There are loads of beetles, for a general body plan have a look at the right hand column or click on the list below for different families. You might not find an exact match for the beetle you are looking for, but there are few greater joys in life than marvelling at the beauty of beetles. There is general beetle info. on the main beetle page, and more detailed info. on the many pages leading off that page.
A newly identified beetle species in the wetlands of South Africa has no direct relatives on the continent, a new study reports. Other populations may have died out because of urban development, Dr. Bilton said. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2015, on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Insects: Beetle Found, No Sign of Relatives.
Ladybird is a name that has been used in England for more than 600 years for the European beetle Coccinella septempunctata. As knowledge about insects increased, the name became extended to all its relatives, members of the beetle family Coccinellidae. Of course these insects are not birds, but butterflies are not flies, nor are dragonflies, stoneflies, mayflies, and fireflies, which all are true common names in folklore, not invented names.
Beetles are by far the largest order of insects, with 350,000–400,000 species in four suborders (Adephaga, Archostemata, Myxophaga, and Polyphaga), making up about 40% of all insect species described, and about 30% of all animals. Many species of leaf beetles, longhorn beetles, and weevils are very host-specific, feeding on only a single species of plant. Ground beetles and rove beetles (family Staphylinidae), among others, are primarily carnivorous and catch and consume many other arthropods and small prey, such as earthworms and snails.