The Proclamation Project will prompt students to make connections between the Emancipation Proclamation and the Civil Rights movement over the ensuing 100 years, the concepts of slavery and freedom, and the nature of civil war in today’s society (as it pertains to our families, our city, and our world). Among the vast holdings at Houghton Library is a signed copy of the Emancipation Proclamation once owned by Charles Sumner, Abraham Lincoln’s confidante and Secretary of State during the Civil War.
The following document is the Emancipation Proclamation, made by President Lincoln on September 22, 1862. The Emancipation Proclamation granted freedom to the slaves in the Confederate States if the States did not return to the Union by January 1, 1863. In addition, under this proclamation, freedom would only come to the slaves if the Union won the war. By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, on the twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, a proclamation was issued by the President of the United States, containing, among other things, the following, to wit:
The proclamation did not change the situation with the Confederacy. Confederate leaders criticized and ignored it. Slaves were freed slowly until 1865 when the Civil War ended and the 13th amendment, abolishing slavery, was ratified. However, the long-term effect of the Emancipation Proclamation is undeniable. More Anniversaries. Major events in the Civil Rights movement continued throughout the rest of 1963. On September 15, violence returned to Birmingham, Alabama, when the 16th Street Baptist Church, a popular location for civil rights meetings, was bombed.
The Proclamation was issued in two parts. The first part, issued on September 22, 1862, was a preliminary announcement outlining the intent of the second part, which officially went into effect 100 days later on January 1, 1863, during the second year of the Civil War. As President, Johnson again invoked the proclamation in a speech presenting the Voting Rights Act at a joint session of Congress on Monday, March 15, 1965. This was one week after violence had been inflicted on peaceful civil rights marchers during the Selma to Montgomery marches.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation warning that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state that did not end its rebellion against the Union by January 1, 1863. As President, Johnson again invoked the proclamation in a speech presenting the Voting Rights Act at a joint session of Congress on Monday, March 15, 1965. This was one week after violence had been inflicted on peaceful civil rights marchers during the Selma to Montgomery marches.
In 1963, many incidents brought the Civil Rights Movement in the United States to the forefront. On April 16, during anti-segregation protests, Martin Luther King, Jr. , was arrested in Birmingham, Alabama. While jailed, he wrote his influential Letter from Birmingham Jail.. More Anniversaries. Major events in the Civil Rights movement continued throughout the rest of 1963. On September 15, violence returned to Birmingham, Alabama, when the 16th Street Baptist Church, a popular location for civil rights meetings, was bombed.
The Emancipation Proclamation: Issued during the American Civil War in late 1862, the Emancipation Proclamation consisted of a pair of executive orders issued by President Abraham Lincoln which declared free any slaves held in the confederate states which did not return to the Union by January 1, 1863. After the war, the congress made full freedom and citizenship of former slaves national law as part of the U.S. Constitution with what are called the three Reconstruction Amendments, the 13th, 14th 15th.
As the Emancipation Proclamation was an Executive Order issued by President Abraham Lincoln to free all slaves being held in states at war with the Union, the envisioned Second Emancipation Proclamation was to use the powers of the Executive office to strike a severe blow to segregation. 
On September 22, 1862, President Abraham Lincoln issued the first part of an executive order known as the Emancipation Proclamation. The proclamation was a war measure that was limited because it was aimed at freeing slaves in states that the Union had no control of. While the proclamation did free some slaves at the time, slavery was officially abolished in the United States in December of 1965 when the 13th Amendment was ratified.
From the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863 to the 1963 March on Washington, 2013 marks the anniversary of important milestones in the Civil Rights movement. Below is a look back at the pivotal moments in the movement that changed the course of history. More Anniversaries. Major events in the Civil Rights movement continued throughout the rest of 1963. On September 15, violence returned to Birmingham, Alabama, when the 16th Street Baptist Church, a popular location for civil rights meetings, was bombed.