Parking in Coney Island Off-street parking is available daily from 8am to 8pm at the Official Coney Island Parking Lot next to MCU Park. Enter at Surf Avenue and West 19th Street. Parking is $11/day Monday-Friday, $16.50/day Saturday-Sunday, and $25/day during events. Driving Directions to Coney Island. For detailed driving directions to Coney Island, input your starting address into this google map. Public Transportation to Coney Island. For customized directions using New York City public transportation, use the MTA's TripPlanner+ or visit hopstop.com. Enter your starting address and input Coney Island, Brooklyn as your destination. Please keep in mind that services changes may be in effect.
From there you can take the LRT at Riviera LRT Station back to Punggol MRT. Driving. For those who are driving, there are two ways – first is to park at Punggol End and walk to the island and back or from Lorong Halus Wetlands to the Eastern entrance and then walk back. Overall, Coney Island Park may not be the most accessible park of the whole of Singapore if one relies on public transport. Perhaps it will be this seclusion that will save it from the hordes of people thronging this place every weekend.
For example, Coney Island, Singapore (island) is located 143 metres from Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island). Coney Island, Singapore (island) is located 625 metres from Serangoon Reservoir. Coney Island, Singapore (island) is located 1.2 kilometres from Sengkang East Dam. Coney Island, Singapore (island) is located 1.2 kilometres from Sungei Dekar. Coney Island, Singapore (island) is located 1.3 kilometres from Sengkang West Dam. Ubin Lagoon Resort 3.6km, NTUC Resort 4.9km, Costa Sands Pasir Ris 5km, are places to stay (hotel, service apartment, inn) located near Coney Island, Singapore (island)
Coney Island is a 45-hectare island located off the northeastern coast of Singapore, Punggol Area. As it is located just 100 metres from the mainland. Pulau Serangoon is also a popular place for jet skiing and camping. East of the Prime Meridian on the Map of Singapore or JB. The locations related to Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island) are represented by the path the bullet takes from the muzzle of the gun to the target and may not be nearest by road. For example, Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island) is located 482 metres from Serangoon Reservoir
Wanderful Singapore: Coney Island Park. When I just shifted into Punggol way back in 2003, my block and those surrounding mine are at the extreme eastern corner of the whole Punggol. You can imagine staying next to nature with migratory birds just steps away from your home. PEACE. Punggol circa 2003 with the trees of Coney Island visible from my home which is the last row right at the back. And then the Punggol Waterway was built and the plot of land slowly became man-made. Gradually the Serangoon and Punggol River are dammed up becoming another reservoir for Singapore. Overall, Coney Island Park may not be the most accessible park of the whole of Singapore if one relies on public transport. Perhaps it will be this seclusion that will save it from the hordes of people thronging this place every weekend.
Share this story. Coney Island, off Punggol in the north-west, will be home to Singapore’s ninth nature park, said the National Parks Board (NParks). The island, a popular spot for anglers and rich in natural biodiversity, will become a sprawling 50ha ‘green lung’. Tampines Eco Green, the latest nature park in Singapore which was unveiled last year, is a possible design model for the Coney Island park. The 36.5ha ecologically themed park is made up of marshland, ponds and secondary rainforest.
The Sengkang LRT and Punggol LRT (East only) is a branch of North East Line. Only the Punggol West LRT is not opened at this time. 1 Hougang Mall, (Hougang MRT Station). 2  Hougang Mall is a mall catered to the needs of Hougang Town, forming part of the town hub that enjoys connectivity with major transport nodes (train and bus). 3  Retail and food outlets are available here. 4  A public library can be found on the 3rd floor.
Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island) is located 1.2 kilometres from Sengkang West Dam. Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island) is located 1.2 kilometres from Sengkang East Dam. Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island) is located 1.3 kilometres from Pe5 Kadaloor. Ubin Lagoon Resort 3.7km, NTUC Resort 5km, Costa Sands Pasir Ris 5.1km, are places to stay (hotel, service apartment, inn) located near Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island). East of the Prime Meridian on the Map of Singapore or JB. The locations related to Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island) are represented by the path the bullet takes from the muzzle of the gun to the target and may not be nearest by road. For example, Pulau Serangoon (Coney Island) is located 482 metres from Serangoon Reservoir