Kael'thas Sunstrider. Tempest Keep is a former naaru fortress in the Netherstorm in Outland. This crystalline fortress is now ruled by Kael'thas Sunstrider, the lord of the blood elves, and dominated by scores of his brethren. The story regarding Tempest Keep was changed accordingly; in The Burning Crusade manual, Tempest Keep was described as a naaru dimensional fortress that did not arrive on Draenor until after its destruction/transformation into Outland.
The Mechanar is the part of Tempest Keep most controlled by Kael'Thas and his blood elves (the Botanica and Arcatraz are suffering various problems), next after The Eye. Main article: Tempest Keep. Among the satellites of Tempest Keep, the Mechanar has been chosen by Kael'Thas to be a factory to create large amounts of power.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Just a short video showing how to get to the Tempest Keep instances from Area 52 in Netherstorm. From right to left, as shown in the video, the instances are The Mechanar (light purple), The Arcatraz (red), and The Botanica (light blue). This video is for slouzero. Now you can find the entrance. 
The Mechanar is the first wing of the Tempest Keep instance. It serves as a base for Pathaleon the Calculator and also generates manacells, which contain an incredible amount of power. It once belonged to the Naaru. The area is filled with Mo'args as well as Bloodwarder and Sunseeker blood elves. Mechano-Lord Capacitus appears to be the one creating it using the naaru-technology found in Tempest Keep, and the power is stored in manacells which piles up into walls and heaps inside the satellite.
Comment by TheRealSaiph. 1  The Tempest Keep raid (The Eye) is through the archway on the largest island, directly in front of you. 2  The Mechanar is through the archway on the smaller purple island to your right. 3  The Botanica is through the archway on the smaller blueish island to your left. 4  The Arcatraz is through the archway on the smaller red ... Note too, that even if the whole group is in Mechanar, and the body is at the very top of the elevator, if anyone is downstairs or in the elevator riding up as the body is looted they will lose out on any possible loot roll as the instance believes that they're not inside.
The Mechanar is the first wing of the Tempest Keep instance. It serves as a base for Pathaleon the Calculator and also generates manacells, which contain an incredible amount of power. It once belonged to the Naaru. The area is filled with Mo'args as well as Bloodwarder and Sunseeker blood elves. Main article: Tempest Keep. Among the satellites of Tempest Keep, the Mechanar has been chosen by Kael'Thas to be a factory to create large amounts of power.
23,707 pages on this wiki. Tempest Keep is a multi-wing fortress located on the eastern side of Netherstorm, in Outland. You will either have to be summoned (meeting stone or warlock) or have a flying mount to get in to any of the parts.
1 The Tempest Keep raid (The Eye) is through the archway on the largest island, directly in front of you. ( 2 73.3,63.7). 3  The Mechanar is through the archway on the smaller purple island to your right. 