Chios Mastic Mastiha (Greek: μαστίχα) is a resin obtained from the mastic tree (Pistacia lentiscus). In pharmacies and nature shops, it is called Arabic gum (not to be confused with gum arabic) and  Yemen gum . In Greece, mastic is used in mastic liqueurs such as Mastichato; in a spoon sweet known as ypovrichio (Ypovríchio Modern greek, υποβρύχιο or, submarine also commonly found in rose and vanilla); flavours in, beverages chewing, gum, sweets, desserts and; breads and in. cheese
Download this page in PDF format. Mastic gum is a resinous extract from the Pistacia lentiscus tree, indigenous to the Mediterranean islands. Historically, mastic gum has had many commercial uses, dating as far back as the Greek Empire where it was used as a form of chewing gum. It traditionally has been used as a treatment for dyspepsia and other disorders of the digestive tract.
1 Taking mastic gum by mouth for 3 weeks seems to improve symptoms of indigestion, including stomach pain, upper abdominal pain, and heartburn. 2  Stomach and intestinal ulcers. 3  Taking mastic powder by mouth for 2 weeks seems to reduce symptoms and improve healing in people with intestinal ulcers. Some people apply mastic directly to the skin for cuts and as an insect repellent. In dentistry, mastic resin is used as a material for fillings. Chewing the resin releases substances that freshen the breath and tighten the gums.
Uses. Mastic gum has culinary, cosmetic and medicinal uses. It is chewed as a gum; used in liquor, desserts, cheese and bread; is an ingredient in toothpaste, lotion and perfume; and is believed to possess healing powers. Mastic gum is a spice that is produced on the Greek island of Chios in the Aegean Sea.
As well as its culinary uses, mastic continues to be used for its gum and medicinal properties. The resin is used as a primary ingredient in the production of cosmetics such as toothpaste, lotions for the hair and skin, and perfumes. Pistacia lentiscus (also mastic; Greek: μαστίχα mastikha) mastíkha is a dioecious evergreen shrub or small tree of the pistacio genus growing up to 4 (m 13) ft tall which is cultivated for its aromatic, resin mainly on The greek island Of. chios
Mastic Gum. Mastic is a resin, the hardened sap from a tree. It appears as pea-sized globules, known as tears. They are rounded, pear shaped, sometimes oblong, with a brittle, crystalline texture. Cooking with Mastic. Besides being used in toothpaste, chewing gum and confectionery, mastic is an ingredient in the making of liqueurs. A Greek grape spirit, mastiha, is flavoured with the resin, as is the Turkish liqueur, raki.
1 Indigestion (dyspepsia). 2  Taking mastic gum by mouth for 3 weeks seems to improve symptoms of indigestion, including stomach pain, upper abdominal pain, and heartburn. 3  Stomach and intestinal ulcers. 4  Taking mastic powder by mouth for 2 weeks seems to reduce symptoms and improve healing in people with intestinal ulcers. Some people apply mastic directly to the skin for cuts and as an insect repellent. In dentistry, mastic resin is used as a material for fillings. Chewing the resin releases substances that freshen the breath and tighten the gums.
Mastic gum is principally used either as a flavouring or for its gum properties, as in mastic chewing gum. As a spice, it continues to be used in Greece to flavour spirits and liquors (such as Chios's native drinks of Mastichato and mastica), chewing gum, and a number of cakes, pastries, spoon sweets, and desserts. Pistacia lentiscus (also mastic; Greek: μαστίχα mastikha) mastíkha is a dioecious evergreen shrub or small tree of the pistacio genus growing up to 4 (m 13) ft tall which is cultivated for its aromatic, resin mainly on The greek island Of. chios
Mastic is a tree. People use the sap (resin) from the trunk to make medicine. Mastic is used for stomach and intestinal ulcers, breathing problems, muscle aches, and bacterial and fungal infections. It is also used to improve blood circulation. Some people apply mastic directly to the skin for cuts and as an insect repellent. In dentistry, mastic resin is used as a material for fillings. Chewing the resin releases substances that freshen the breath and tighten the gums.