Jerome has Patricia’s amulet. Nina & Fabian have to get the gem and do a trade for the amulet. Nina sees a riddle. Jerome has the gem, but has a problem. Mara finds the missing chapter of the Book of Isis. The Sibunas find a clue to the Spider task. I love house of Anubis, it's one of my favorite shows and honestly I don't want victor to find the mask I want Nina and her friends to plus Fabian and Nina should get back together they are such a good couple :) I don't want this show to end .....
Fabian Rutter is one of the main characters of the show living in Anubis House. He's the smart one who's often seen hanging around with the girls more than the guys which often leads to people teasing him. He also told Nina (by accident) she has pretty eyes. As of the season finale, Nina and Fabian have their first kiss at prom. In House of Hello/House of Dolls, Fabian and Nina almost kiss but Jerome ruins the moment as he points out the living room is an eating area. Later on in the season, they break up due to a misunderstanding
Fabian was happy when Mara didn't get expelled. In Season 3 Nina doesn't come back and Jerome cheats on Mara meaning they're both single. In Season 3, the episode, House of Ammut / House of Heroes, Mara and Fabian get closer. Mabian (Ma /ra and Fa/ bian) is the romantic pairing of Mara Jaffray and Fabian Rutter. Fabian is a friend of Mara's, but they don't really talk much throughout the show
In Season 2, she searches for the Mask of Anubis with Nina and Fabian while dealing with Alfie as her boyfriend, Patricia joins the gang as well. Eventually, Amber too is branded with the Mark of Anubis before being hexed by Senkara to grow old at an alarming rate. In the second season, though annoyed by Joy's schemes to win Fabian from Nina, Patricia begins to get close to the new student Eddie in a love-hate relationship. Patricia then rejoined Sibuna to help her friends find the Mask of Anubis, getting marked by the Mark of Anubis prior to her twin sister Piper showing up.
Gran is the grandmother of Nina Martin. Nina has been living with her since her parent's passing in America. After the holidays, she stays at a hotel near the House of Anubis but it floods. Since her hotel flooded she shared a room with Nina and Amber at the House of Anubis. In the second season, though annoyed by Joy's schemes to win Fabian from Nina, Patricia begins to get close to the new student Eddie in a love-hate relationship. Patricia then rejoined Sibuna to help her friends find the Mask of Anubis, getting marked by the Mark of Anubis prior to her twin sister Piper showing up.
This article is an episode list for House of Anubis, a mystery / comedy-drama television series broadcast on Nickelodeon. On March 10, 2011, Nickelodeon confirmed that it would make a second season of House of Anubis at its annual Upfront presentation to advertisers and media. On June 29, 2011, Entertainment Weekly came with the news that Nickelodeon had ordered a second season from production company Studio 100. A special episode of House of Anubis titled Touchstone of Ra aired on 14 June 2013 (UK) and 17 June 2013 (US). Following the conclusion of the third season and the movie special, as of September 2015 Nickelodeon has not announced a fourth season.
Trudy Rehmann is the housemother of the House of Anubis, one of the few people to be unaware of the mystery and the events. Trudy is a nice person, and she helps the students when she needs to and as much as she can, even small problems. She seems to have a crush on Fabian's Uncle Ade. In the second season, though annoyed by Joy's schemes to win Fabian from Nina, Patricia begins to get close to the new student Eddie in a love-hate relationship. Patricia then rejoined Sibuna to help her friends find the Mask of Anubis, getting marked by the Mark of Anubis prior to her twin sister Piper showing up.
Mick was Fabian's roommate and he often helped Mick out with his problems with Amber. They are really good friends and Mick knows that Fabian likes Nina. In the first episode, Mick asked Fabian what he thought of Nina and Fabian said that she looked nice. Afterwards, Mick teases him about it. He also told Nina (by accident) she has pretty eyes. As of the season finale, Nina and Fabian have their first kiss at prom. In House of Hello/House of Dolls, Fabian and Nina almost kiss but Jerome ruins the moment as he points out the living room is an eating area. Later on in the season, they break up due to a misunderstanding