Gabapentin is used with other medications to prevent and control seizures. It is also used to relieve nerve pain following shingles (a painful rash due to herpes zoster infection) in adults.
Gabapentin is a prescription medication not FDA approved for veterinary use; however, it is a commonly accepted practice for veterinarians to use this medication in dogs and cats. Gabapentin is available as 100 mg and 300 mg capsules. The usual dose to treat seizures in dogs is 4.5 to 13.5 mg per lb every 8 to 12 hours.
Gabapentin for Treating Seizures. Gabapentin may be used to treat refractory seizures in dogs and cats that have not responded favorably to other types of medications. It may be used in conjunction with other antiepileptic medications or may be used a sole form of treatment.
A: Neurontin (gabapentin) is an anticonvulsant. It's used to treat seizures and also nerve pain from shingles. Common side effects of Neurontin include dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, blurred vision, dry mouth, headache, diarrhea, and constipation.
Gabapentin is a good choice in seizures when other medications are not working well to control the seizures or if levels are not easy to control as with phenobarbital or potassium bromide. The most common side effect is sedation with gabapentin but they seem to get used to it after using it for a week or two.
Uses. Gabapentin is used with other medications to prevent and control seizures. It is also used to relieve nerve pain following shingles (a painful rash due to herpes zoster infection) in adults. Gabapentin is known as an anticonvulsant or antiepileptic drug.
The recommended starting dosage of Neurontin for controlling partial seizures in adults and adolescents over 12 years old is Neurontin 300 mg three times daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase your dose, up to a maximum of 800 mg three times daily, until your seizures are under control.
Gabapentin is approved to treat seizures caused by epilepsy, either alone or in combination with other medications and to treat partial seizures in combination with other medications. Gabapentin is also approved to treat nerve pain caused by the herpes virus or herpes zoster (shingles).
The starting dose range is 10 mg/kg/day to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses, and the effective dose reached by upward titration over a period of approximately 3 days. The effective dose of NEURONTIN in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses.