The Noble gases have a completely filled valence electron shell. Since they are already totally stable on their own, it takes too much energy to ionize them and make them bond … with other elements. The reason elements react is to gain the highest level of stability they can. The noble gases have an octet (8) number of valence electrons in their outermost energy level. Because of having an already stable number of electrons they tend to be unreacti … ve.
The atomic structure of Noble gases is the reason that they are unreactive or have little tendency to react with other substances. Each atom is made up of a nucleus and a number of electrons that orbit the nucleus. The Noble gases are a group of elements that possess many similar characteristics and properties. Noble gases as odorless, colorless, tasteless and non-flammable. They have a very low chemical reactivity. The six naturally occurring noble gases currently known are Argon (Ar), Neon (Ne), Helium (He), Krypton (Kr), Xenon (Xe) and radioactive Radon (Rn)
noble gas (inert gas) Helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon, and radon – the elements (in order of increasing atomic number) forming group 0 of the periodic table. They are colourless, odourless, and unreactive. Noble gases. The noble gases are the six elements that make up Group 18 of the periodic table: helium (He), neon (Ne), argon (Ar), krypton (Kr), xenon (Xe), and radon (Rn). At one time, this family of elements was also known as the rare gases.
They are called the noble gases because they are very unreactive. The noble gases-Group 0. The highest occupied energy levels (outermost shells) of their atoms are full: 1  helium atoms have two electrons in their outer energy level. 2  atoms of the other noble gases have eight electrons in their outer energy level. 
Yes, they are. The noble gases (group 18) on the periodic table of elements are unreactive because they have 8 electrons on their outer shell (valence electrons) and therefore … they are very stable. The noble gases have an octet (8) number of valence electrons in their outermost energy level. Because of having an already stable number of electrons they tend to be unreacti … ve.
Noble gases are stable because they have a complete outer shell-that is, eight valence electrons. Other elements react in order to gain or lose valence electrons, but noble … gases are satisfied. The noble gases have an octet (8) number of valence electrons in their outermost energy level. Because of having an already stable number of electrons they tend to be unreacti … ve.
Noble gases are stable because they have a complete outer shell-that is, eight valence electrons. Other elements react in order to gain or lose valence electrons, but noble … gases are satisfied. Noble gases have completely filled orbitals / energy levels. They generally have 8 valence electrons (helium has only 2 valence electrons) and have stable electronic configura … tion. Hence they are chemically inert and generally donot form compounds under normal conditions.
Noble gases consist of atoms that have a full outer shell or valence shell. This means that they do not attract or require electrons from other atoms and therefore have no reason to react with them. Noble gases are very stable chemical elements. The Noble gases are a group of elements that possess many similar characteristics and properties. Noble gases as odorless, colorless, tasteless and non-flammable. They have a very low chemical reactivity. The six naturally occurring noble gases currently known are Argon (Ar), Neon (Ne), Helium (He), Krypton (Kr), Xenon (Xe) and radioactive Radon (Rn)
Yes, they are. The noble gases (group 18) on the periodic table of elements are unreactive because they have 8 electrons on their outer shell (valence electrons) and therefore … they are very stable. Due to this stability, they will rarely react with any other chemical. 1 person found this useful. Noble gases have completely filled orbitals / energy levels. They generally have 8 valence electrons (helium has only 2 valence electrons) and have stable electronic configura … tion. Hence they are chemically inert and generally donot form compounds under normal conditions.