Confidence votes 77.6K. No, a microwave isn't a computer. Most microwaves have a little (really little by modern standards) microprocessor chip in them to provide the brainpower to allow a user to program the appliance to perform a number of functions.
The radiation used in a microwave oven is in the form of radio waves; this is non-ionizing radiation, meaning it is not the same kind of radiation that can cause cancer; that kind of radiation is called ionizing radiation-sunlight and nuclear radiation are examples.
1 An example of microwave is a type of cooking that uses energy waves to cook food; microwave cooking. 2  An example of microwave is frozen foods that are made to cook very quickly; microwave food.
microwave-Computer Definition. A form of radio transmission that uses ultra-high frequencies, developed out of experiments with radar (radio detecting and ranging) during the period preceding World War II.
Yes, a microwave oven can interfere with electromagnetic equipment, like a computer. A microwave oven can also interfere with radio signals, like those used for wireless Inter … net and cell phones.
Cook's Computer Solutions (CCS) is for all your technology consulting, training, repair and sales needs. We have a variety of services and competitive pricing. Let us give you an estimate and meet your technology needs.
A microwave oven does use a computer, just not a computer that can be directly used. It is not like a laptop or a desktop computer. If it is a modern microwave oven with … a lighted display, it contains a chip that resembles those found inside computers.
A microwave oven. Microwave is defined as the part of the electromagnetic spectrum with large infrared waves and short radio waves, an oven that cooks food very quickly or made to cook in one of these ovens. 1  An example of microwave is a type of cooking that uses energy waves to cook food; microwave cooking.
A microwave is a form of electromagnetic radiation in the frequency range between 300 MHz (or 0.3 GHz) and 300 GHz. A microwave is also the shorthand name we give to a commo … n appliance called a microwave oven.