$1,198.44. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Garage Door! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Garage Door Installation project. For a basic 1 door project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Garage Door ranges between $695.35 - $1,198.44 per door. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Garage Door Installation. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.
At minimum, expect to spend $400 for a garage door installation, while $1,400 has been the maximum cost reported for this type of a project. Average Garage Door Installation Cost. The average garage door installation cost is $890. Most homeowners spend between $770 and $1,015 to have a garage door professionally installed.
Typically, it will cost less to install a steel garage door without an opener than to install a custom wood door with a garage door opener. Recent innovations have also yielded high-tech doors with thick insulation and energy-efficient glaze, as well as finished interior surfaces and other significant upgrades. Purchasing extra remotes and getting openers set up for operation will typically range from $100 to $400, which will add to the overall cost of the garage door installation. If your opener works with the new door, you won't need to have it replaced.
Here are some factors to consider as you look to invest in a new garage door: A garage door will cost anywhere from $200 for single doors to $4,000 for two or more doors, with better materials accounting for the higher cost. Most homeowners report spending about $1,060 for the door and installation. Purchasing extra remotes and getting openers set up for operation will typically range from $100 to $400, which will add to the overall cost of the garage door installation. If your opener works with the new door, you won't need to have it replaced.
Each has its proverbial pluses and minuses, and each comes with a different range of costs and requirements. According to DIYOrNot.com, it will cost between $200 and $425 to install a single new garage door opener. 1 Selecting an opener-The screw-drive varieties will cost between $150 to $250 for the equipment and will be far less noisy than the chain drive versions. 2  The chain drive types average $130 to $180 for the equipment, and the belt drives are the quietest and most costly averaging between $170 and $350 each.
Garage door opener repair can cost between $100 and $300 depending on the extent of the problem. Return to Top. The type of garage door you select -- and any extra pieces or labor required -- will influence how much you pay to have it professionally installed. Purchasing extra remotes and getting openers set up for operation will typically range from $100 to $400, which will add to the overall cost of the garage door installation. If your opener works with the new door, you won't need to have it replaced.
Use a Lowe's professional installer for your garage door opener installation project. Shop Lowe's for garage door openers, garage doors, garage door opener accessories and garage door hardware. Use our Garage Door Opener Selector to choose the right garage door opener for your home. 
A professional garage door installation can usually be done within a day. The national average cost of a garage door installation, including labor and material, ranges from $700.92 to $1,345.92, according to homewyse.com. Receiving bids from several reputable contractors can help you get the best value on installation costs. The price of a garage door installation depends on a variety of factors, including the type of door, size of door and material used. Steel doors are generally less expensive than wooden doors. A thicker, well-insulated door raises the price.
According to DIYOrNot.com, it should cost between $500 and $800 to install a single new garage door. They demonstrate that the average homeowner can usually tackle such a project in a nine hour time span and a professional will be able to complete it in roughly five hours. 1 Be sure that each quote includes the costs for a few different types of doors, any installation fees, and the cost of wiring the electronic openers. 2  Standard prices range from: 3  Single tilt-up models - $400 to $700 installed; 4  Single roll-up models $800 to $1000 installed; 5  Custom roll-up models - $1200 to $2000; and.