Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated. The term muscle refers to multiple bundles of muscle fibers called fascicles. All muscles also contain connective tissue arranged in layers of fasciae. Each muscle is enclosed in a layer of fascia; each fascicle is enclosed by a layer of fascia and each individual muscle fiber is also enclosed in a layer of fascia.
Medical Definition of MUSCLE FIBER. : any of the elongated cells characteristic of muscle. What made you want to look up muscle fiber?
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. The term muscle refers to multiple bundles of muscle fibers called fascicles. All muscles also contain connective tissue arranged in layers of fasciae. Each muscle is enclosed in a layer of fascia; each fascicle is enclosed by a layer of fascia and each individual muscle fiber is also enclosed in a layer of fascia.
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. There are various specialized forms of myocytes: cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle cells, with various properties. The striated cells of cardiac and skeletal muscles are referred to as muscle fibers. 
1. muscle fiber-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). Noun. 1. muscle fiber-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body.
Medical Definition of FIBER. 1. : a thread or a threadlike structure or object: as a: a strand of nerve tissue: axon, dendrite b: one of the filaments composing most of the intercellular matrix of connective tissue c: one of the elongated contractile cells of muscle tissue. 2. 
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion. 
Within skeletal muscle there are three types of fiber: Type I. Type I fibers are also known as slow twitch fibers. They are red in colour due to the presence of large volumes of myoglobin and so oxygen and high numbers of Mitochondria. 
Noun. 1. muscle fibre-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fiber. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. 