Mural and Trompe L'oeil Costs. Specialty painting by the hour costs between $40 to $50 on average. Paint might range between $75 to $90, costing an additional $40 to $50 per hour. The painter's skill and experience are also determining factors in the cost of specialty painting. 1 Learn more about the current average cost to paint a home exterior. 2  Painting a small home project: Small projects might include one accent wall, a door or trim project, cabinets, paneling or fence gates. 3  Find more on the current average cost to paint a small project.
The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage. Return to Top. Accent walls allow a homeowner the chance to experiment with a new color. The average cost to repaint kitchen cabinets is about $1,000, depending on the number of cabinets you have to paint and the time and labor required to do so. The materials used to paint the kitchen cabinets -- brushes, primer, paint, sanding equipment -- will cost up to $200 if you decide to buy them yourself.
The average cost to paint a front door ranges from $100 - $300 per door. 1  Paint the door while it's still in the frame and on its hinge, or it might not fit back into place when you're finished. 2  You can also paint both sides more easily by leaving it on the hinges. The average cost to repaint kitchen cabinets is about $1,000, depending on the number of cabinets you have to paint and the time and labor required to do so. The materials used to paint the kitchen cabinets -- brushes, primer, paint, sanding equipment -- will cost up to $200 if you decide to buy them yourself.
Although the price for painting a car door can vary wildly, in most cases the cost will be somewhere between $300 and $1,200. The majority of normal cars with standard paint jobs will cost between $400 and $700, but larger vehicles and those with special paint can cost more. Several factors help determine the actual price of painting a car-door panel. The size of the panel is one of the most important factors. Bigger doors require more paint and time; therefore they cost more to paint. The type of paint is another important facet of the price.
Time for carefully masking or removing/reinstalling hardware not to be painted is also included. For a basic 1 door project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint a Door ranges between $93.49 - $192.79 per door. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. 
1 Interior paint itself costs anywhere from $12-$50 or more a gallon, depending on the quality. 2  Painting a 12x12-foot room, both walls and ceiling, can require $25-$100 worth of paint, plus $10-$50 for primer, brushes, rollers, drop clothes and other supplies. 
The only time a door might cost more is if it is a very old door with lots of paint or if you have a smooth door, with no wood grain. The best way to paint this type of door is to use a high quality brush and paint. In this case the cost per side could run $40-50. One final note, most of our customers won't call us to paint one door! We just wanted to begin to educate you on what things cost. If you have an experienced painting company clean, prep and paint a six-panel door (including the frame) the price could range from $25-35. Of course, the cost per door is usually slightly cheaper if you are doing both sides and multiple doors as there is less time to setup and clean up.
For a basic 1 door project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint an Exterior Door ranges between $104.85 - $239.06 per door. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. Time for carefully masking or removing/reinstalling hardware not to be painted is also included. 
The average national cost to paint a small project is $628, with most homeowners spending between $353 and $908. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Painting an entire home -- or even an entire room -- can be an extensive and expensive undertaking. The average cost to repaint kitchen cabinets is about $1,000, depending on the number of cabinets you have to paint and the time and labor required to do so. The materials used to paint the kitchen cabinets -- brushes, primer, paint, sanding equipment -- will cost up to $200 if you decide to buy them yourself.