The Differences Between a Felony and a Misdemeanor. The main difference between a felony and a misdemeanor is the severity of the crime. What is considered to be a severe crime will vary from society to society and, sometimes, from state to state. Both felonies and misdemeanors can be committed against people, property, or the state. Once again, though, the difference is the severity of the crime.
In most states, crimes are classified in one of two categories: felonies and misdemeanors. Sometimes, there are also a third class of crimes called petty crimes or violations, and are usually punished by a fine with no jail time (these often include traffic infractions). Felonies. Felonies are the most serious type of crime and are usually classified by degrees, with a first degree felony being the most serious. Examples of felonies include murder, aggravated or grand theft, rape, etc.
The punishments for a felony and misdemeanor differ greatly as well. Felonies tend to involve prison sentences of at least a year, fines, or a combination of both. Misdemeanors, on the other hand, involve prison sentences of less than a year, smaller fines, or a combination of both. What is considered to be a severe crime will vary from society to society and, sometimes, from state to state. Both felonies and misdemeanors can be committed against people, property, or the state. Once again, though, the difference is the severity of the crime.
Other constitutional rights such as the right to a speedy trial are also involved when a person is charged with a felony. Conviction of a felony brings with it more disadvantages than just higher fines and longer jail time. In some states, persons convicted of felonies cannot serve on juries, or purchase or possess firearms and may not be employed in certain professions, such as law, teaching, or the military.
Jury trials are not available for petty offenses. Misdemeanors are punishable by more substantial fines and sometimes jail time, usually less than one year. Any jail term would most likely be served in a local or county jail, rather than a state or federal correctional institution. Conviction of a felony brings with it more disadvantages than just higher fines and longer jail time. In some states, persons convicted of felonies cannot serve on juries, or purchase or possess firearms and may not be employed in certain professions, such as law, teaching, or the military.
In Ohio, criminal offenses are divided into Misdemeanors and Felonies based on their maximum potential punishment. The maximum penalty for a misdemeanor in Ohio is up to 6 months in jail and/or a $1,000 fine. Felonies have potential sentences that are far more severe and can result in imprisonment in the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction. The classification of a charge as either a misdemeanor or felony also affects your right to a speedy trial. For example: • Minor misdemeanor – your speedy trial right is 30 days. • 3rd or 4th degree misdemeanor – your right to a speedy trial is 45 days.
Criminal offenses are grouped into two categories. A misdemeanor is a lesser offense, such as shoplifting, harassment, or driving while intoxicated. A felony is a more serious crime like rape, murder or kidnapping. The process from arrest to trial is pretty much the same for misdemeanors and felonies.
Criminal defense attorney Clark Head is a highly regarded trial attorney with more than 30 years of courtroom experience in municipal, county, state, and federal courts throughout the entire State of California. We invite you to learn more about the difference between a felony and a misdemeanor on this page. 
Felonies and misdemeanors are two classifications of crimes used in most states, with petty offenses being the third. Petty offenses are sometimes called violations and are usually punished by a fine with no jail time. Conviction of a felony brings with it more disadvantages than just higher fines and longer jail time. In some states, persons convicted of felonies cannot serve on juries, or purchase or possess firearms and may not be employed in certain professions, such as law, teaching, or the military.