Eye pressure, called intraocular pressure (IOP), is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10-21 mm Hg. Most people with glaucoma have IOP of greater than 21 mm Hg; however, in normal-tension glaucoma, people have IOP within the normal range. 
Glaucoma is an eye condition that is caused by increased intraocular pressure. Normal range for eye pressure is between 10- to 21-mm HG. Diagnosis of glaucoma can be made after intraocular pressure is found to be in excess of 21 mm. In addition to increased eye pressure, the ophthalmologist will scope the eye for retinal and structural abnormalities.
Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10 to 21 mm Hg. When a person's pressure is higher than 21 mm Hg, they are at an increased risk for developing glaucoma. Some people can tolerate pressures slightly higher than normal without developing glaucoma
The term ocular hypertension usually refers to any situation in which the pressure inside the eye, called intraocular pressure, is higher than normal. Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10-21 mm Hg. 
On this page: 5 causes of high eye pressure • High eye pressure treatment. Ocular hypertension means the pressure in your eyes  your intraocular pressure (IOP)  is higher than normal. Left untreated, high eye pressure can cause glaucoma and permanent vision loss in some individuals. 
Glaucoma is usually high pressure inside the eye that damages the optic nerve and can result in permanent vision loss. Normal-tension glaucoma (also called low-tension glaucoma) is a unique condition in which optic nerve damage and vision loss have occurred despite a normal pressure inside the eye. 
Measuring Eye Pressure. Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 12-22 mm Hg, and eye pressure of greater than 22 mm Hg is considered higher than normal. When the IOP is higher than normal but the person does not show signs of glaucoma, this is referred to as ocular hypertension. High eye pressure alone does not cause glaucoma. However, it is a significant risk factor.
Normal intraocular pressures average between 12-22 mm Hg. The “mm Hg” refers to millimeters of mercury, which is a scale for recording the eye pressure. Eye pressure can vary hourly, daily and weekly. Many factors can affect the up and down changes in a person's intraocular pressure. Usually, the higher the pressure, the more risk to the optic nerve. Some optic nerves develop glaucoma even at low pressures (this is called normal-tension glaucoma) so it is important to have the optic nerve examined no matter what the pressure may be.
Glaucoma is a multi-factorial, complex eye disease with specific characteristics such as optic nerve damage and visual field loss. While increased pressure inside the eye (called intraocular pressure or IOP) is usually present, even patients with normal range IOP can develop glaucoma. When the IOP is higher than normal but the person does not show signs of glaucoma, this is referred to as ocular hypertension. High eye pressure alone does not cause glaucoma. However, it is a significant risk factor.