Satellite view showing Atlanta, capital and most populous city of the State of Georgia in the United States, located in the nortwestern part of the state, south of the Chattahoochee River. ___ Map and Satellite View of the City of Atlanta, Georgia (45-degree view available).
Note: many unincorporated communities in DeKalb County and Cobb County, Georgia adjacent to Atlanta, including Druid Hills CDP and North Druid Hills, both in Dekalb County and Cumberland, Georgia and Vinings, Georgia, both in Cobb County use Atlanta in their postal address but are not part of the City of Atlanta. This article is about neighborhoods in the city of Atlanta, Georgia. For cities, neighborhoods, and other districts in Greater Atlanta, see Atlanta metropolitan area.
Description: Atlanta Map displays the major roads, airports, hotels, tourist places, stadiums in the Atlanta city of Georgia, USA. Atlanta is the residence of the Governor of Georgia in Buckhead and is also a home to Georgia Public Broadcasting headquarters and Peachnet. Tourist Attractions in Atlanta: Although Atlanta is more of a business center than a tourist attracted place, the city offers a variety of entertainment facilities.
detailed map of Atlanta and near places. Welcome to the Atlanta google satellite map! This place is situated in Fulton County, Georgia, United States, its geographical coordinates are 33° 44' 56 North, 84° 23' 17. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Atlanta. See Atlanta photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Atlanta in United States. Atlanta hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
In 1868, Atlanta became the fifth city in the nation to serve as the state capital. The city is the county seat of Fulton County and a portion of it extends into DeKalb County. The city, known for the busiest international airports in the world in terms of passenger traffic, is governed by a mayor and a city council. Atlanta is the residence of the Governor of Georgia in Buckhead and is also a home to Georgia Public Broadcasting headquarters and Peachnet. Tourist Attractions in Atlanta: Although Atlanta is more of a business center than a tourist attracted place, the city offers a variety of entertainment facilities.
Georgia’s 10 largest are largest cities are Atlanta, Augusta-Richmond County, Columbus, Savannah, Athens-Clarke County, Macon, Roswell, Albany, Marietta and Warner Robins. Learn more about Historical Facts of Georgia Counties. One of the best ways to trace colonial ancestors is to use early maps of Georgia. Maps of Georgia generally are likely to be an outstanding reference for getting started with your research, since they provide you with significantly valuable information and facts quickly. Georgia Maps are usually a major source of considerable amounts of information and facts on family history.
Atlanta has a city population of nearly 448,000 inhabitants (est. 2013), in Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Marietta metropolitan area live about 5.4 million people. Just zoom in (+) to see Georgia State Capitol, a National Historic Landmark and the main office building of Georgia's government. ___ Map and Satellite View of the City of Atlanta, Georgia (45-degree view available).
The Map shows a city map of Atlanta with expressways, main roads and streets, zoom out to find Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport (IATA code: ATL), located 8.4 mi (13.5 km) by road south of Atlanta's central business district. To find a location use the form below. ___ Map and Satellite View of the City of Atlanta, Georgia (45-degree view available).
Download Map Metro Atlanta Understand how the city is spread out, where neighborhoods are, and an overall perspective of how to get around. Download Map Cobb/Cumberland and Perimeter A stone's throw from Peachtree Street, the Cobb/Cumberland area hosts performing arts shows, public shows and exhibitions. Download Map. Our helpful Atlanta maps will help you orient yourself no matter where in town you find yourself. We’ll guide you from the airport through Downtown, Midtown and Buckhead, and even give you an overall look at the Metro Atlanta area.
Atlanta, the capital of the state of Georgia is also the most populace city in the United States. The city is one of the most important economic centers in the Southern United States and is considered as a Gamma World City. Atlanta is the residence of the Governor of Georgia in Buckhead and is also a home to Georgia Public Broadcasting headquarters and Peachnet. Tourist Attractions in Atlanta: Although Atlanta is more of a business center than a tourist attracted place, the city offers a variety of entertainment facilities.