Other atoms may be present in place of the hydrogen atoms in some places. Examples of hydrocarbo … ns include Methane (CH4), toluene. A hydrocarbon contains only hydrogen atoms and carbon atoms. There are a large number of hydrocarbons, but the simplest is CH4 (methane). An organic molecule made of nothing more than hydrogen and carbon  atoms
1 Other substances used in volatile substance abuse are solvents, which comprise one of the other areas the Minister wants examined. 2  Even small amounts of gasoline or other volatile fuels or solvents mixed with kerosene can substantially increase the risk of a fire or an explosion. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1 
The Maine Department of Environmental Protection [DEP] relies on laboratory tests called EPH [Extractable Petroleum Hydrocarbons] and VPH [Volatile Petroleum Hydrocarbons] to test for the presence of gasoline or fuel oil in drinking water. 
The following is intended as a brief guide to selection of the appropriate testing procedures. Petroleum hydrocarbons are a large group of varied compounds. The compounds can be classified by number of carbon molecules and arrangement. The more carbons in a given compound, the less volatile, or higher the boiling point. 
Volatile hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons that are liquid at normal pressure and temperature but have a high vapor pressure and therefore evaporate rapidly. Some examples of volatile hydrocarbons include toluene, methylene chloride, and acetone. 3 people found this useful. An organic molecule made of nothing more than hydrogen and carbon  atoms. A hydrocarbon contains only hydrogen atoms and carbon atoms. There are a large number of hydrocarbons, but the simplest is CH4 (methane).
Their high vapor pressure results from a low boiling point, which causes large numbers of molecules to evaporate or sublimate from the liquid or solid form of the compound and enter the surrounding air. For example, formaldehyde, which evaporates from paint, has a boiling point of only –19 °C (–2 °F). VOCs are numerous, varied, and ubiquitous. They include both human-made and naturally occurring chemical compounds. Most scents or odours are of VOCs. VOCs play an important role in communication between plants, and messages from plants to animals. VOC (volatile organic compounds) are all compounds that appear in the gas chromatogram between and including n-hexane and n-hexadecane.
n. Any of numerous organic compounds, such as benzene and methane, that contain only carbon and hydrogen. hy′dro·car′bo·na′ceous (-bə-nā′shəs) , hy′dro·car·bon′ic (-bŏn′ĭk) , hy′dro·car′bon·ous (-bə-nəs) adj. (ˌhaɪdrəʊˈkɑːbən).
1 (Of a substance) easily evaporated at normal temperatures: volatile solvents such as petroleum ether, hexane, and benzene. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Other substances used in volatile substance abuse are solvents, which comprise one of the other areas the Minister wants examined. 2  Even small amounts of gasoline or other volatile fuels or solvents mixed with kerosene can substantially increase the risk of a fire or an explosion.
Noun. 1. hydrocarbon-an organic compound containing only carbon and hydrogen. chlorobenzene-a colorless volatile flammable liquid with an almond odor that is made from chlorine and benzene; used as a solvent and in the production of phenol and DDT and other organic compounds. Any of numerous organic compounds, such as benzene and methane, that contain only carbon and hydrogen. hy′dro·car′bo·na′ceous (-bə-nā′shəs) , hy′dro·car·bon′ic (-bŏn′ĭk) , hy′dro·car′bon·ous (-bə-nəs) adj. (ˌhaɪdrəʊˈkɑːbən).
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are organic chemicals that have a high vapor pressure at ordinary room temperature. VOC (volatile organic compounds) are all compounds that appear in the gas chromatogram between and including n-hexane and n-hexadecane.