A few players have clothing lines (Alex Fraige) or signature gear they promote to earn extra money. In the end, when you're a pro paintball player you usually are trying to get benefits in the form of various sponsorships. Sponsors can do anything from offering a small discount on their equipment, to paying your travel costs (hotels, plane tickets, paint, tournament entry fees etc).
Report Abuse. they make however much they can split between their teammates depending on how well they do in tournaments and such. so not a lot. i assume a lot of them have actual jobs as well. or they are somewhat traveling bums that play paintball as much as possible at the expense of their sponsors. They don't have salaries, so to speak, like players in other sports do. And they definitely don't get paid benefits. But if they get into advertisements, they could do pretty well off royalties, like Ollie Lang.
HAHAHA, Salary!!! Seriously, professional paintball players are lucky to break even on all their travel, gear, and living costs. There is no money … in it, which is why paintball as an industry and as a sport needs to change if the players and businessmen want it to stick around. Been in paintball for over 10 years. I enjoy playing, talking about, fixing and just about everything in the paintball world. not much, usually they are not paid but do get all their gear for free. there are very few people who can put professional paintball player as a job title.
The average salary of a basketball player in the NBA is about $4.2 million per year.A … starting rookie player makes about $750,000 per year, while a highly paid and highly skilled NBA player can make upwards of $10 million per year. they would proberbly get paid $ 3,000,000 a year depending how good they are at football if you were awsume you would have more like $ 6,000,000 but it depends because my frie … nds cousin got in the NFL and he got a contract for $ 6,000,000 dollar for two years.
Though there are very few paintball players who earn major money through endorsement contracts and prize money, there are a number of ways to make money as a paintball player. Usually, the best sponsorships and prize money can do for players and teams is reimburse players for their travel, lodging and practice expenses. 
The majority of Paintballers aren't paid. they are subsidised for their travel and expenses and get free gear off their sponsors. very few are paid... but when they are paid they are paid ALOT. for example Oliver Lang signed a $100,000 deal with Dye paintball in 2006 making him the best paid paintballer in the world. they would proberbly get paid $ 3,000,000 a year depending how good they are at football if you were awsume you would have more like $ 6,000,000 but it depends because my frie … nds cousin got in the NFL and he got a contract for $ 6,000,000 dollar for two years.
Judo PLAYERS don't get payed unless they in the Olympics and then they only get paid for advertising, such as wearing a suit made by adidas. Judo Referees however, can get pay … ed $38,000 if they referee at the highest level. But they must be a black belt of some level. they would proberbly get paid $ 3,000,000 a year depending how good they are at football if you were awsume you would have more like $ 6,000,000 but it depends because my frie … nds cousin got in the NFL and he got a contract for $ 6,000,000 dollar for two years.
Average Salary. According to Simple Hired, professional paintball player salaries depend largely on location, as well as on experience. In 2011, in California, a professional player was able to make as much as $65,000 a year. In New York, a player made only $46,000 a year. In Massachusetts a player made $47,000, depending on the opportunities available.
Answers. Best Answer: Almost zero professional paintball players get paid like an NFL player or MLB player would. Oliver Lang is one of the few, he plays for the Los Angeles Ironmen. In the end, when you're a pro paintball player you usually are trying to get benefits in the form of various sponsorships. Sponsors can do anything from offering a small discount on their equipment, to paying your travel costs (hotels, plane tickets, paint, tournament entry fees etc).