Millicent Fawcett, one of the founding leaders of the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS), was born in 1847 and at 18 married the MP Henry Fawcett. She was a member of the London National Society of Women's Suffrage from its foundation in 1867 and became a well-known speaker on the subject.
Definition: The word suffrage comes from the Latin suffragium meaning to support.. It already had the connotation of voting in classical Latin, and may have been used as well for a special tablet on which one recorded a vote.n the 15th and 15th centuries in English, it was also used to mean support.. By the 16th and 17th centuries, suffrage was in common use in English to mean a vote in favor of a proposal (as in a representative body like Parliament) or of a person in an election.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: suffrage (Noun). The right or chance to vote, express an opinion, or participate in a decision. suffrage (Noun). A vote in deciding a particular question.suffrage (Noun). The right to vote for elected officials in a representative democracy.n many other languages, the right to vote is called the active right to vote and the right to be voted for is called the passive right to vote. In English, these are sometimes called active suffrage and passive suffrage.
Universal suffrage without universal education would be a curse. Universal suffrage means that everyone should have the right to vote. Without universal education, that is education available to everyone, voting by an ignorant population wa … s of little value and too easily corruptible.his term means literally that everybody can vote. Practically it means all adult citizens who are not barred from voting by past crimes can vote provided they are properly registered to vote.
Suffrage (from the Latin root, meaning vote) is the civil right to vote, or the exercise of that right. Basically, suffrage is the right to vote..    Suffrage is … the right to vote.  .
Suffrage is granted to qualifying citizens once they have reached the voting age. What constitutes a qualifying citizen depends on the government's decision, but most democracies no longer extend different rights to vote on the basis of sex or race.n many languages, the right to vote is called the active right to vote and the right to run for office is called the passive right to vote. In English, these are sometimes called active suffrage and passive suffrage.
By Jone Johnson Lewis. Definition: The word suffrage comes from the Latin suffragium meaning to support.. It already had the connotation of voting in classical Latin, and may have been used as well for a special tablet on which one recorded a vote. It likely came into English through French.n the 15th and 15th centuries in English, it was also used to mean support.. By the 16th and 17th centuries, suffrage was in common use in English to mean a vote in favor of a proposal (as in a representative body like Parliament) or of a person in an election.
In the 15th and 15th centuries in English, it was also used to mean support.. By the 16th and 17th centuries, suffrage was in common use in English to mean a vote in favor of a proposal (as in a representative body like Parliament) or of a person in an election. The meaning then broadened to apply to a vote for or against candidates and proposals.
Suffrage, political franchise, or simply franchise is the right to vote in public, political elections (although the term is sometimes used for any right to vote). In many languages, the right to vote is called the active right to vote and the right to run for office is called the passive right to vote. In English, these are sometimes called active suffrage and passive suffrage. Suffrage is often conceived in terms of elections for representatives. However, suffrage applies equally to initiatives and referenda. Suffrage describes not only the legal right to vote, but also the practical question of whether a question will be put to a vote