A zoologist is a biologist who studies animals. He investigates their origins, behavior, interaction with the environment, diseases they contract and may transmit, and all their life processes, such as migration and reproduction. Post-graduate degrees are often required for positions such as a zoo curator or to enter the academic world. Post-graduate study allows a candidate to specialize in a particular field such as microbiology or biochemistry. Consider marine biology if you want to work with marine animals.
Becoming a zoologist isn't as easy as becoming a scientist or researcher in other natural science and environmental fields. Most organizations that hire zoologists and research scientists require candidates to have a doctoral degree in zoology and extensive work experience in the field. Zoologist Education Requirements. In order to become a zoologist, you will need to fulfill the following zoologist requirements: 1  Complete undergraduate studies in biology, natural science or a related field. 2  Preferably take elective courses in introductory zoology or related classes
Zoologist Job Description. A zoologist is a type of biologist who specializes in the animal kingdom, from unicellular organisms and pet iguanas to rare species living deep under the sea. Zoology is the study of animals and the environments that influence them. Animal science experts may focus on wild animals, livestock, or pets. 
With a bachelor's degree in zoology, you can get an entry-level job as a zoologist or wildlife biologist, since there are minimal education and experience requirements. Once, you gain more experience you can move up to higher paying positions. Learn how to become a zoologist. Research the education and career requirements, training information and experience required for starting a career in zoology.
Undergraduate. A zoologist requires at least a bachelor's degree. It is preferable to major in biological science or zoology. A candidate will complete theoretical work in the classroom and clinical work in the laboratory. Post-graduate degrees are often required for positions such as a zoo curator or to enter the academic world. Post-graduate study allows a candidate to specialize in a particular field such as microbiology or biochemistry. Consider marine biology if you want to work with marine animals.
In order to become a zoologist you need to complete a Bachelor of Science degree. The University of WA, Curtin University of Technology and Edith Cowan University offer three year full-time Bachelor of Science (Zoology). 
Zoology is a wide-ranging field of study that involves all living organisms, but particularly animals. Zoologists may specialize in the study of single-celled organisms, particular species, or the relationship of animals to their environment, other species or other populations. Undergraduate. Zoology candidates at the college level should pursue a field of study that leads to a bachelor of science degree with a major in zoology or a related field, such as biology, chemistry, animal husbandry or wildlife management.
Zoologists are required to have a minimum of a bachelor’s degree in a field such as zoology, biology, wildlife biology or ecology with coursework in anatomy, wildlife management, cellular biology or even botany, physics and chemistry. Zoologists study the origins, characteristics, behavior, genetics, diseases and habitats of animals and wildlife. Much of their work involves laboratory experiments, field work and research activities and then writing research papers, scholarly articles and reports that document their findings.