In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water.
So exactly what temperature should a fridge be? Your fridge should be cooling food anywhere in between 36 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit (2.2 to 4.5 degrees Celsius). How do you test this? Use a probe thermometer to gauge the temperature of the inside of food that has been sitting in your fridge for at least 24 hours.
Thaw with Care. There are three ways to thaw safely: in the refrigerator, in cold water, and in the microwave. If you thaw food in cold water, change the water every half hour to make sure it stays cold. Foods thawed in the microwave must be cooked immediately after thawing.
Your refrigerator's most important goal is to slow the growth of bacteria without freezing your food. Freezing usually doesn't do good things to the taste and texture of your food, but you want to keep things as cold as possible without actually freezing.
Your refrigerator’s thermostat should be set to 36 to 38 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately two degrees Celsius) and your freezer’s thermostat from 0 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius).
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below).
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat.
From food storage to cooling down a summer drink, it is a refrigerators job to keep your food icy and fresh. Many do not know exactly how cold a refrigerator should be. Your fridge’s temperature shouldn’t be something unknown, though. Proper cooling is vital to making sure that your food is safe for your family to eat.