Correlation between the carbon cycle and formation of organic compounds. In plants, carbon dioxide formed by carbon fixation can join with water in photosynthesis (green) to form organic compounds, which can be used and further converted by both plants and animals. Carbon (from Latin: carbo coal) is a chemical element with symbol C and atomic number 6. On the Periodic table, it is the first (row 2) of six elements in column (group) 14, which have in common the composition of their outer electron shell.
Carbon dioxide is produced during the processes of decay of organic materials and the fermentation of sugars in bread, beer and winemaking. It is produced by combustion of wood, carbohydrates and fossil fuels such as coal, peat, petroleum and natural gas. Carbon dioxide exists in the Earth's atmosphere as a trace gas at a concentration of about 0.04 percent (400 ppm) by volume.
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 2  the complete oxidation of pyruvic acid to carbon dioxide and water.
Its speed is determined by three major factors: soil organisms, the physical environment and the quality of the organic matter (Brussaard, 1994). In the decomposition process, different products are released: carbon dioxide (CO 2), energy, water, plant nutrients and resynthesized organic carbon compounds. Successive decomposition of dead material and modified organic matter results in the formation of a more complex organic matter called humus (Juma, 1998). Carbon cycling is the continuous transformation of organic and inorganic carbon compounds by plants and micro-and macro-organisms between the soil, plants and the atmosphere (Figure 2). FIGURE 2. Carbon cycle. Decomposition of organic matter is largely a biological process that occurs naturally.
Carbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both a source of energy to drive this process, and the electrons needed to convert carbon dioxide into a carbohydrate. In the Calvin cycle, atmospheric carbon dioxide is incorporated into already existing organic carbon compounds, such as ribulose bisphosphate (RuBP). Using the ATP and NADPH produced by the light-dependent reactions, the resulting compounds are then reduced and removed to form further carbohydrates, such as glucose.
The process of incorporating carbon dioxide into the molecules of living matter is called fixation. Nearly all carbon dioxide fixation is accomplished by means of photosynthesis, in which green plants form carbohydrates from carbon dioxide and water, using the energy of sunlight to drive the chemical reactions involved. These materials are made of organic compounds formed by the plants; when burned, they too restore carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, 6th ed. Copyright © 2012, Columbia University Press.
One of the resulting 3-carbon sugars is used to make organic compounds such as starch and sucrose for later use; and. the other three-carbon sugar is used to regenerate the initial 5-carbon compound, thereby completing the cycle. ATP and NADPH provide energy for bonds to form. 
When plant residues are returned to the soil, various organic compounds undergo decomposition. Decomposition is a biological process that includes the physical breakdown and biochemical transformation of complex organic molecules of dead material into simpler organic and inorganic molecules (Juma, 1998). Carbon cycling is the continuous transformation of organic and inorganic carbon compounds by plants and micro-and macro-organisms between the soil, plants and the atmosphere (Figure 2). FIGURE 2. Carbon cycle. Decomposition of organic matter is largely a biological process that occurs naturally.
Carbon fixation is a biochemical process by which atmospheric carbon dioxide is incorporated by plants, algae and (cyanobacteria) into energy-rich organic molecules such as glucose, thus creating their own food by photosynthesis. Carbon dioxide exists in the Earth's atmosphere as a trace gas at a concentration of about 0.04 percent (400 ppm) by volume.
However, not all organisms that use light as a source of energy carry out photosynthesis, since photoheterotrophs use organic compounds, rather than carbon dioxide, as a source of carbon. In plants, algae and cyanobacteria, photosynthesis releases oxygen. In the Calvin cycle, atmospheric carbon dioxide is incorporated into already existing organic carbon compounds, such as ribulose bisphosphate (RuBP). Using the ATP and NADPH produced by the light-dependent reactions, the resulting compounds are then reduced and removed to form further carbohydrates, such as glucose.