physical deconditioning. Medtalk The deterioration of heart and skeletal muscle, related to a sedentary lifestyle, debilitating disease, or prolonged bed rest Clinical ↓ lean body mass, maximum O 2 uptake, exercise-induced cardiac output, stroke volume, impaired vasodilation, exercise intolerance, especially in CHF. 
Deconditioning due to decreased physical effort results in muscle loss, including heart muscles. Deconditioning due to lack of gravity or non-standard gravity action (e.g., during bed rest) results in abnormal distribution of body fluids.
Medical Definition of DECONDITIONING. : a decrease in the responsiveness of heart muscle that sometimes occurs after long periods of weightlessness and may be marked by decrease in blood volume and pooling of the blood in the legs upon return to normal conditions. 2 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  deconditioning (noun). 2  decondition (transitive verb)
Deconditioning. A decrease in the responsiveness of heart muscle that sometimes occurs after long periods of weightlessness and may be marked by decrease in blood volume and pooling of the blood in the legs upon return to normal conditions. Classic Signs: Fatigue, weakness, breathlessness, pain. Offsite Research:
Physical deconditioning as a cause of breathlessness among obese adolescents with a diagnosis of asthma. Shim YM(1), Burnette A, Lucas S, Herring RC, Weltman J, Patrie JT, Weltman AL, Platts-Mills TA. Author information: 
Levels of Deconditioning Mild-difficulty with maximal activity i.e. swimming, running, or “exercising” Moderate – difficulty with normal activity i.e. walking down the street, shopping, mowing the lawn Severe – difficulty with minimal activity & self care. Objectives Discuss deconditioning as a clinical entity resulting in a reduced functional capacity of multiple body systemsDiscuss the pathophysiology of prolonged bed restList key interventions that prevent and treat the consequences of bed rest.
Deconditioning is adaptation of an organism to less demanding environment, or, alternatively, the decrease of physiological adaptation to normal conditions. Decondition may result from decreased physical activity, prescribed bed rest, orthopedic casting, paralysis, aging, etc. Deconditioning due to lack of gravity or non-standard gravity action (e.g., during bed rest) results in abnormal distribution of body fluids.
Deconditioning is a complex process of physiological change following a period of inactivity, bedrest or sedentary lifestyle. It results in functional losses in such areas as mental status, degree of continence and ability to accomplish activities of daily living. The authors describe a three-pronged strategy to combat deconditioning that includes a model of care appropriate to the growing population of elderly clients, the creation of an elder-friendly hospital environment and an exercise program.
As we can see from the literature, there are considerable benefits to alleviating deconditioning. It is recommended that individuals should stretch muscles that are tight and that restrict mobility. It is essential that therapists accurately assess strength and strengthen any muscles that demonstrate weakness. Finally, remember that reconditioning takes twice as long as deconditioning; therefore, we need to inform our patients that if it has taken them three months to get to this low level, it will take them six months of diligent work to get back to their prior level of function and conditioned status.