First, determine if you owe FICA taxes for this domestic worker. Sometimes called the nanny tax, you must pay and withhold FICA taxes for domestic workers if you pay a worker more than $1700 annually (for 2010 and 2011). The tax is per worker, so if you pay several workers more than $1700 each, the tax must be paid for each worker. If you pay a domestic worker $1700 or more (in 2010) you must file a Schedule H-Household Employment Taxes form along with your personal tax return. This form records information on how much you paid domestic workers, income taxes you withheld, and FICA taxes you withheld and paid during the yea
Domestic Workers’ Bill of Rights. Among other provisions, this law gives domestic workers: 1  The right to overtime pay at time-and-a-half after 40 hours of work in a week, or 44 hours for workers who live in their employer’s home; 2  A day of rest (24 hours) every seven days, or overtime pay if they agree to work on that day; 1 The right to overtime pay at time-and-a-half after 40 hours of work in a week, or 44 hours for workers who live in their employer’s home; 2  A day of rest (24 hours) every seven days, or overtime pay if they agree to work on that day; 3  Three paid days of rest each year after one year of work for the same employer; and.
A Domestic Worker is entitled to one days leave for every 17 days worked. Therefore Domestic Workers working 1 day a week are entitled to 3 days annual leave per annum. Similarly a Domestic Worker is entitled to 1 day sick leave for every 26 days worked i.e. two days per annum. 
The Domestic Workers' Act sets out Minimum Wages for Domestic Workers in South Africa and specifies working conditions such as hours of work, overtime pay, salary increases, deductions, annual and sick leave. 
1 Workers who work 24-hour shifts but are not residing on the employer's premises permanently or for extended periods of time are not considered live-in domestic service workers and, thus, the workers must be paid overtime at one and a half times the regular rate of pay for all hours worked over 40 in the workweek. For a live-in domestic service employee, such as a live-in home health aide or a nanny, the employer and worker may agree to exclude the amount of time spent during a bona fide meal period, sleep period, and off-duty time.
Some domestic workers live within the household where they work. A live-in domestic worker, means they live on the household s premises. Live in domestics are considered to be working more than 40 hours per week regardless of set hours they may have. A domestic worker is someone employed and paid by a single person or a couple in a domestic partnership within their private household.