Yohimbe contains a chemical that affects the body. This chemical is called yohimbine. Yohimbine might affect the body in some of the same ways as some medications for depression called MAOIs. Taking yohimbe along with MAOIs might increase the effects and side effects of yohimbe and MAOIs. Yohimbe contains a chemical that can affect the brain. This chemical is called yohimbine. Naloxone (Narcan) also affects the brain. Taking naloxone (Narcan) along with yohimbine might increase the chance of side effects such as anxiety, nervousness, trembling, and hot flashes.
Yohimbe contains a chemical called yohimbine which can increase blood flow and nerve impulses to the penis or vagina. It also helps counteract the sexual side effects of certain medications used for depression. Yohimbe contains a chemical that can affect the brain. This chemical is called yohimbine. Naloxone (Narcan) also affects the brain. Taking naloxone (Narcan) along with yohimbine might increase the chance of side effects such as anxiety, nervousness, trembling, and hot flashes.
A. For generations, the bark of the yohimbe tree, an evergreen native to western Africa, has been used as a remedy for erectile dysfunction (ED). Yohimbe bark extract, also known as yohimbine, is a dietary supplement. Made from yohimbe bark, it's sold under various names. Available without a prescription, its promoters claim it is an alternative remedy for ED. But whether it actually works is unclear. Yohimbe bark extract should not be confused with yohimbine hydrochloride, which is different from the supplement. Yohimbine hydrochloride has been available by prescription in the U.S. as a treatment for impotence since the 1930s.
The active ingredient in the extract is yohimbine; it is a veterinary drug used to reverse sedation in dogs and deer. In addition to yohimbine, yohimbe extract contains about 55 other alkaloids. Yohimbine accounts for 1-20% of its total alkaloid content. Yohimbe extract is widely used as a dietary supplement. By itself, yohimbe bark is on the FDA list of banned substances. Yohimbe bark is also currently banned in the UK, Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand, Denmark, the Czech Republic, and Canada.
Editor's Picks. Where it comes from: Yohimbe is derived from the bark of a west African evergreen tree. Yohimbine is an active chemical (an alkaloid) found in said bark and is cultivated into supplement form. Yohimbine hydrochloride is a standardized form of yohimbine that is available as a prescription drug in the United States. 
Yohimbe (Pausinystalia johimbe) is a tree that grows in western and central Africa; yohimbine was originally extracted from the bark of yohimbe in 1896 by Adolph Spiegel. In 1943 the correct constitution of yohimbine was proposed by Witkop. Yohimbine is a drug used in veterinary medicine to reverse the effects of xylazine in dogs and deer. Yohimbe extracts, which contain yohimbine, have been used in traditional medicine in West Africa as an aphrodisiac and yohimbe extracts have been marketed as dietary supplements.
Yohimbe is a tree that grows in Africa, and the natives there have used the crude bark and purified compound to enhance sexual desire and performance. Yohimbe has been used for centuries as an aphrodisiac. It has even been smoked as a hallucinogen. 
Yohimbine has been studied as a potential treatment for erectile dysfunction but there is insufficient evidence to rate its effectiveness. Extracts from yohimbe containing yohimbine have been used in traditional medicine in West Africa as an aphrodisiac and have been marketed as dietary supplements. Yohimbine is a drug used in veterinary medicine to reverse the effects of xylazine in dogs and deer. Yohimbe extracts, which contain yohimbine, have been used in traditional medicine in West Africa as an aphrodisiac and yohimbe extracts
Yohimbine (/joʊˈhɪmbiːn/) is an indole alkaloid derived from the bark of the Pausinystalia yohimbe tree in Central Africa. Yohimbine is a drug used in veterinary medicine to reverse the effects of xylazine in dogs and deer. Yohimbe extracts, which contain yohimbine, have been used in traditional medicine in West Africa as an aphrodisiac and yohimbe extracts have been marketed as dietary supplements.