Cells in other parts of the body may be affected if you lack vitamin B12. Other symptoms that may occur include a sore mouth and tongue. If left untreated, problems with nerves and psychological problems can develop. Psychological problems may include depression, confusion, difficulty with memory or even dementia. A lack of vitamin B12 (B12 deficiency) is one cause of anaemia. Pernicious anaemia is a condition where vitamin B12 cannot be absorbed into your body. It is the most common cause of vitamin B12 deficiency in the UK. Vitamin B12 deficiency can easily be treated by regular injections of
Trouble in the mouth is the indication of low vitamin B complex in the body. A burning sensation in the mouth and tongue is a common effect of B vitamin deficiency. Deficiency of B complex also results in a swollen tongue, and people with this deficiency find it hard to swallow. In particular, folic acid deficiency causes burning sensation in the mouth. It also leads to tingling in the tongue. 1 Poor absorption of nutrients and vitamin deficiencies results in candidiasis. 2  Normally, it does not cause any problem. 3  Severe condition causes symptoms of burning and soreness and a foul taste in the mouth. 4  Atropic Glossitis: Vitamin B12 deficiency causes a smooth tongue also known as atrophic glossitis.
A Dr. Jonathan B. Levine, DMD, Dentist, answered. A lack of different vitamins can cause several oral health problems: 1  Vitamin B2 (riboflavin) deficiency: Shiny red lips, sore tongue, cracks and sores at the corner of the mouth. 2  Vitamin B3 (niacin) deficiency: Red and/or swollen tip of tongue with dry, smooth edges, sores at mouth edges, general mouth pain. 1 Vitamin B12 deficiency: Bad breath, sores at edge of mouth, bright red tongue that may have fissures, loss of taste, dry mouth, numbness and bleeding. 2  Vitamin C or A deficiency: Bleeding gums, lowered immune response, infections (like yeast infection) in mouth and impaired taste.
1 Vitamin B2 (riboflavin) deficiency: Shiny red lips, sore tongue, cracks and sores at the corner of the mouth. 2  Vitamin B3 (niacin) deficiency: Red and/or swollen tip of tongue with dry, smooth edges, sores at mouth edges, general mouth pain. 1 Vitamin B12 deficiency: Bad breath, sores at edge of mouth, bright red tongue that may have fissures, loss of taste, dry mouth, numbness and bleeding. 2  Vitamin C or A deficiency: Bleeding gums, lowered immune response, infections (like yeast infection) in mouth and impaired taste.
A lack of vitamin B12 (vitamin B12 deficiency) causes the signs and symptoms of pernicious anemia. Without enough vitamin B12, your body can't make enough healthy red blood cells, which causes anemia. Some of the signs and symptoms of pernicious anemia apply to all types of anemia. Other signs and symptoms are specific to a lack of vitamin B12.
An early sign of vitamin B3 deficiency is a lack of appetite. Vitamin B3 deficiency may be mild or severe. A mild deficiency of vitamin B3 causes symptoms such as a coated tongue, mouth sores, low blood sugar, dizziness, and chronic headaches. Other possible symptoms of mild vitamin B3 deficiency are skin lesions, anemia, and diarrhea. A prolonged and severe niacin deficiency may cause depression and neurasthenia (weakening of muscles). Vitamin B3 deficiency can be overcome by including vitamin-B3-rich foods in the diet including milk, egg, fish, tuna, beef, chicken; dates, avocados, tomatoes, carrots, leaf vegetables; whole-grain products and nuts.
Because of its nearly continuous use throughout the day, abnormalities become obvious very quickly, making the tongue a helpful marker of disease. If your tongue shows signs or symptoms of a vitamin deficiency, testing will most often reveal one of the B vitamins as the culprit, explains MedlinePlus. Less commonly, levels of other vitamins that are low also cause changes of your oral cavity, including the tongue. 
Inflammation of the tongue is known as glossitis, and oral symptoms include a sore, smooth and a beefy red tongue. Burning mouth syndrome that causes tingling, burning sensation in the mouth is also caused as a result of certain vitamin deficiency. 1 Poor absorption of nutrients and vitamin deficiencies results in candidiasis. 2  Normally, it does not cause any problem. 3  Severe condition causes symptoms of burning and soreness and a foul taste in the mouth. 4  Atropic Glossitis: Vitamin B12 deficiency causes a smooth tongue also known as atrophic glossitis.
1 Vitamin B3 (niacin) deficiency: Red and/or swollen tip of tongue with dry, smooth edges, sores at mouth edges, general mouth pain. 2  Vitamin B6 deficiency: Sore burning mouth, sores at edge of mouth, smooth tongue. 1 Vitamin B12 deficiency: Bad breath, sores at edge of mouth, bright red tongue that may have fissures, loss of taste, dry mouth, numbness and bleeding. 2  Vitamin C or A deficiency: Bleeding gums, lowered immune response, infections (like yeast infection) in mouth and impaired taste.