From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Barrett's esophagus (British English: Barrett's oesophagus), sometimes called Barrett syndrome, Barrett esophagus, or columnar epithelium lined lower oesophagus (CELLO), refers to an abnormal change (metaplasia) in the cells of the lower portion of the esophagus. The presence of goblet cells, called intestinal metaplasia, is necessary to make a diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus. This frequently occurs in the presence of other metaplastic columnar cells, but only the presence of goblet cells is diagnostic.
gastric intestinal metaplasia. WP. Definition: Intestinal metaplasia is the transformation (metaplasia) of epithelium, usually of the stomach or the esophagus, to a type that bears some resemblance to the intestine as seen in Barrett’s esophagus. 
Metaplasia from squamous to columnar type may also occur, as in Barrett esophagus, in which the esophageal squamous epithelium is replaced by intestinal-like columnar cells under the influence of refluxed gastric acid. The most common epithelial metaplasia is columnar to squamous (squamous metaplasia), as occurs in the respiratory tract in response to chronic irritation.
Both macroscopic (from endoscopy) and microscopic positive findings are required to make a diagnosis. Barrett's esophagus is marked by the presence of columnar epithelia in the lower esophagus, replacing the normal squamous cell epithelium—an example of metaplasia. The presence of goblet cells, called intestinal metaplasia, is necessary to make a diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus. This frequently occurs in the presence of other metaplastic columnar cells, but only the presence of goblet cells is diagnostic.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Metaplasia (Greek : change in form) is the reversible replacement of one differentiated cell type with another mature differentiated cell type. The change from one type of cell to another may generally be a part of normal maturation process or caused by some sort of abnormal stimulus. Metaplasia is not synonymous with dysplasia and is not directly considered carcinogenic. It is also contrasted with heteroplasia, which is the abnormal growth of cytologic and histologic elements without a stimulus.
The columnar mucosa is probably derived from either the esophageal submucosal glands, the gastric cardia or possibly residual pluripotent stem cells located in the basal area of the squamous epithelium. The definition of esophageal columnar metaplasia, or Barrett's esophagus, is somewhat controversial. G.N.J. Tytgat (Amsterdam). A columnar-lined esophagus develops when damaged squamous mucosa in the distal esophagus is replaced by metaplastic columnar mucosa [1]. Usually, gastroesophageal reflux is the factor that injures the squamous mucosa.
The buffer action of the mucus covering the columnar cells is interfered with when the everted columnar epithelium in ectropion is exposed to the acidic vaginal environment. This leads to the destruction and eventual replacement of the columnar epithelium by the newly formed metaplastic squamous epithelium. 
Metaplasia. Definition: Metaplasia is the reversible replacement of one differentiated cell type with another differentiated cell type. Metaplasia causes precursor cells to change their cell fate, and do not change existing differentiated cells. The most common epithelial metaplasia is columnar to squamous (squamous metaplasia), as occurs in the respiratory tract in response to chronic irritation.
(April 2014). Metaplasia (Greek : change in form) is the reversible replacement of one differentiated cell type with another mature differentiated cell type. The change from one type of cell to another may generally be a part of normal maturation process or caused by some sort of abnormal stimulus. Metaplasia is not synonymous with dysplasia and is not directly considered carcinogenic. It is also contrasted with heteroplasia, which is the abnormal growth of cytologic and histologic elements without a stimulus.