Erythropoietin (EPO) ... Hormones. chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organ s. The term was origin ally applied to substances secreted by various endocrine glands and trans ported in the blood stream to the target organ s. Hormones-Biology Encyclopedia forum. « Homeostasis. Hormones, Plant » ...
Hormones definition-Hormones are organic chemical substances released by a cell, or organ or a gland or any body part of plants and animals that functions in the regulation of physiological activities and to maintain homeostasis. Hormones are transm it ted to their target organs in the blood stream after they are discharged from the glands secreting them. Cells express a specific receptor molecule to the hormone molecules to which they respond. Endocrine secretions is the mode of discharge directly into the bloodstream.
Hormone. Hormone. (Science: endocrinology) a naturally occuring substance secreted by specialised cells that affects the metabolism or behaviour of other cells possessing functional receptor s for the hormone. hormone. General term for any extracellular substance that induces specific responses in target cells. Hormones coordinate the growth, differentiation, and metabolic activities of various cells, tissue s, and organ s in multicellular organ isms. Hormones of the Kidney, Skin, and Heart. 
General characteristics of hormones are as follows:Hormones are secreted by endocrine cells. Hormones are chemical messengers.The are chemical signals that circulate in the body fluids. The hormones regulate the behavior of the target cells. Hormones, unlike enzymes do not catalyze any reaction. Hormones are transm it ted to their target organs in the blood stream after they are discharged from the glands secreting them. Cells express a specific receptor molecule to the hormone molecules to which they respond. Endocrine secretions is the mode of discharge directly into the bloodstream.
Hormones. Hormones. chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various endocrine glands and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. 
Photo by: Vanessa. Hormones are molecules released by a group of cells in the body that influence the behavior of another group of cells. Hormones are the chemical signals of the endocrine system, the group of glands that, along with the nervous system, controls the body's responses to internal and external stimuli. All hormones bind at the target cell to a specific receptor, a protein made by the target cell. When the hormone binds to the receptor, it causes a change in the receptor's conformation, or shape.
Hormones are chemical substances that help to regulate processes in the body. Hormones are secreted by glands and travel to their target organs in the bloodstream. Several hormones are involved in the female menstrual cycle. Hormones and glands. Hormones are chemicals secreted by glands in the body. Different hormones affect different target organs. The bloodstream transports hormones from the glands to the target organs. Move the mouse over the different glands to see what they do. Your web browser does not have JavaScript switched on at the moment
Hormone: A chemical substance produced in the body that controls and regulates the activity of certain cells or organs. Many hormones are secreted by special glands, such as thyroid hormone produced by the thyroid gland. Hormones are essential for every activity of life, including the processes of digestion, metabolism, growth, reproduction, and mood control.