Hypernyms (passive is a kind of...): voice ((linguistics) the grammatical relation (active or passive) of the grammatical subject of a verb to the action that the verb denotes). The adjective PASSIVE has 3 senses: 1. lacking in energy or will. 2. peacefully resistant in response to injustice. 3. expressing that the subject of the sentence is the patient of the action denoted by the verb. Familiarity information: PASSIVE used as an adjective is uncommon.
In English grammar, voice doesn't mean the sound you make when you speak. It shows whether the subject of a sentence is doing the action, or having the action done to it. If the subject is the person performing the action, we use the active voice. 
Active. The Student.  1 students are assumed to enter the course with minds like empty vessels or sponges to be filled with knowledge (TPE p.424)*.  2 traditional class: lecturing instructor verbalizing information to passive note-taking students. 
Use of the passive voice is not a grammatical error. It’s a stylistic issue that pertains to clarity—that is, there are times when using the passive voice can prevent a reader from understanding what you mean. Not every sentence that contains a form of “have” or “be” is passive! Forms of the word “have” can do several different things in English. For example, in the sentence “John has to study all afternoon,” “has” is not part of a past-tense verb.
Active learning is a model of instruction that focuses the responsibility of learning on learners. It was popularized in the 1990s by its appearance on the Association for the Study of Higher Education (ASHE) report (Bonwell & Eison 1991). 1 Learning By Teaching is also an example of active learning because students actively research a topic and prepare the information so that they can teach it to the class.
What this handout is about. This handout will help you understand what the passive voice is, why many professors and writing instructors frown upon it, and how you can revise your paper to achieve greater clarity. Some things here may surprise you. Not every sentence that contains a form of “have” or “be” is passive! Forms of the word “have” can do several different things in English. For example, in the sentence “John has to study all afternoon,” “has” is not part of a past-tense verb.
The passive learning style can be regarded as a hobby or more for fun as it is not the optimal learning style. 7 people found this helpful. We practiced passive learning and that was a great way for us to evolve because it allowed us freedom to think clearer. 5 people found this helpful. When doing online classes I turn in homework quite often.. and take exams on my own... this is passive learning, there isnt much communication between you and the program when you do homework and exams because once you finish you get your results right there... and can re study and re take the tests within 30 days.
• PASSIVE (noun). The noun PASSIVE has 1 sense: 1. the voice used to indicate that the grammatical subject of the verb is the recipient (not the source) of the action denoted by the verb. Familiarity information: PASSIVE used as a noun is very rare. The adjective PASSIVE has 3 senses: 1. lacking in energy or will. 2. peacefully resistant in response to injustice. 3. expressing that the subject of the sentence is the patient of the action denoted by the verb. Familiarity information: PASSIVE used as an adjective is uncommon.
The passive voice can be used without referring to the agent of an action; it may therefore be used when the agent is unknown or unimportant, or the speaker does not wish to mention the agent. 1  Three stores were robbed last night. 2  A new cancer drug has been discovered. 3  Mistakes have been made on this project. A sentence featuring the passive voice is sometimes called a passive sentence, and a verb phrase in passive voice is sometimes called a passive verb. English allows a number of passive constructions which are not possible in many of the other languages with similar passive formation.