So the $2 million turns into $1.7 million quickly. Then there are agent and manager fees (how else is he going to get ad sponsorships?)—take off another hundred grand there and you get $1.6 million, on which Kyle pays taxes from tour winnings. After taxes, he keeps something like $900k. Which would be great. Expected Lifetime Earnings: $13,463,354. Let's do some real math here, because what you hear in the media is often completely distorted in terms of how much money pro athletes, especially golfers, make. Forget about Tiger numbers, at least for now. You're not Tiger.
PGA TOUR Salary. PGA TOUR average salary is $74,542, median salary is $69,565 with a salary range from $27,040 to $166,379. PGA TOUR salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. PGA TOUR salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. PGA TOUR salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
The median expected salary for a typical Head Golf Pro-Private Course in the United States is $59,649. This basic market pricing report was prepared using our Certified Compensation Professionals' analysis of survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes, industries and geographies. Provides instruction to members or guests on an individual or group basis. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and at least 5 years of experience in the field or in a related area, and PGA membership.
Again, caddies negotiate this deal with the golfer on a case by case basis. Some could make more. Some could make less. The average PGA Tour player plays between 20-30 events per year, so it would make sense to assume that the average salary would range from $20,000-$45,000. Bonuses: The real money for caddies comes from bonuses. The PCA President also explained that caddies earn at least 5% what the golfer makes in a given week. Another 50 golfers made between $1-$2 million, resulting in bonuses of at least $50,000. And if you were the caddie who finished 125th on the money list (the last person to guarantee a PGA Tour card for 2014), you would have received at least $30,508 in bonuses.
The Facts. A PGA tour caddy can make several arrangements with a player concerning his salary. Most PGA Tour caddies make between $1000 and $1500 per week, but they also make a percentage of what the player wins in the tournaments. This usually equates to 5 percent of any finish outside the top 10. Players breaking into the top 10, but not winning, will share 7 percent of their prize with their caddies. There are several benefits to being a PGA Tour caddy in addition to the salary. Caddies often get paid to travel to exotic locations and stay in five-star resorts. Some caddies get disability and health benefits, although this is not standard.
Average Pga Tour salaries for job postings nationwide are 166% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 