An evergreen, Kalmia latifolia grows anywhere from four feet (1.2 m) to 20 feet (6.1 m) tall. It has irregular branching and a rounded shape with elliptical-shaped leaves and white or pink flowers that grow in clusters. It grows best in mountainous areas and thrives in soil that is acidic. The leaves are Kalmia latifolia are commonly used by homeopathic medicine practitioners to treat a number of ailments. Leaves that are converted into powder are sometimes used to treat skin infections. The leaves are also recommended to treat fevers, syphilis, jaundice, and a variety of inflammations of the joints.
1. capitalized: a genus of North American evergreen shrubs (family Ericaceae) with oblong to linear leaves and showy flowers that are borne in clusters in the axils of leaves or bracts and have a saucer-shaped basally 10-saccate corolla with an anther resting in each sac — see mountain laurel, sheep laurel. 2. 
Kalmia latifolia, commonly called mountain-laurel, calico-bush, or spoonwood, is a species of flowering plant in the heather family, Ericaceae, that is native to the eastern United States. Its range stretches from southern Maine south to northern Florida, and west to Indiana and Louisiana. Kalmia latifolia is notable for its unusual method of dispensing its pollen. As the flower grows, the filaments of its stamens are bent and brought into tension. When an insect lands on the flower, the tension is released, catapulting the pollen forcefully onto the insect.
kalmia. n. 1. (Plants) any evergreen ericaceous shrub of the North American genus Kalmia, having showy clusters of white or pink flowers. See also mountain laurel
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Kalmia latifolia is a shrub or tree also known by its common names of mountain laurel, ivy bush, Kalmia, lambkill, and calico bush. It is native to the eastern sections of North America. The leaves are Kalmia latifolia are commonly used by homeopathic medicine practitioners to treat a number of ailments. Leaves that are converted into powder are sometimes used to treat skin infections. The leaves are also recommended to treat fevers, syphilis, jaundice, and a variety of inflammations of the joints.
Kalmia latifolia. GENUS: Kalmia Kalmia latifolia L—Mountain laurel FAMILY: Ericaceae—the Heath Family Widely distributed on acid soils, members of this family are found mostly in the northern temperate region. Kalmia latifolia L—Mountain laurel. Kalmia latifolia L— Mountain laurel. FAMILY: Ericaceae—the Heath Family.
kalmia-any plant of the genus Kalmia. genus Kalmia-erect evergreen shrubs: mountain laurel. American laurel, calico bush, Kalmia latifolia, mountain laurel, wood laurel-a North American evergreen shrub having glossy leaves and white or rose-colored flowers. n. 1. (Plants) any evergreen ericaceous shrub of the North American genus Kalmia, having showy clusters of white or pink flowers.
Kalmia was named by Linnaeus to honour his friend the botanist Pehr Kalm, who collected it in eastern North America during the mid-18th century. Earlier Mark Catesby saw it during his travels in Carolina, and after his return to England in 1726, imported seeds. Kalmia species are used as food plants by the larvae of some lepidopteran species including Coleophora kalmiella which feeds exclusively on Kalmia.
Kalmia is a genus of about 8 species of evergreen shrubs from 0.2–5 m tall, in the family Ericaceae. Kalmia species are used as food plants by the larvae of some lepidopteran species including Coleophora kalmiella which feeds exclusively on Kalmia.
Kalmia. A showy shrub native to eastern North America, mountain laurel is closely related to azaleas and rhododendrons. It grows in a large, rounded mound and has dark green foliage that remains on the plant all year. In late spring, it bears clusters of flowers in white, pink, and red. Kalmia latifolia 'Elf' was the first dwarf mountain laurel introduced. It has large pink buds that open to nearly white flowers. It grows 3 feet tall and 4 feet wide.