Pubic transport around London is generally good. However, when you first arrive, the 23-mile journey from London Heathrow to Greenwich by taxi is a great way to get your bearings. If you are a frequent traveller or if your Heathrow-Greenwich taxi is for a business trip, why not open an account with APL. Our online system makes it easy to amend and cancel bookings, as well as generate your own invoices.
Airport Pickups London (APL Cars) is one of the capital’s leading providers of airport taxis. Heathrow Airport to Greenwich is just one of the routes we serve, day after day. We know the quickest route and will get you there in comfort and with the minimum possible fuss. If you are a frequent traveller or if your Heathrow-Greenwich taxi is for a business trip, why not open an account with APL. Our online system makes it easy to amend and cancel bookings, as well as generate your own invoices.
My preference would have been to fly into London City airport as it's nearer but also a lot more expensive than flying into Heathrow. Does anyone know the best way of public transport to get from Heathrow airport to Greenwich bearing in mind we'll be... show more I'm going to a concert in the O2 London next year. Not really a problem. I would suggest using the underground service from Heathrow to Green Park, then changing to the Jubilee Line(destination Stratford), getting off at North Greenwich, which is adjacent to the 02.
Heathrow Airport (IATA: LHR, ICAO: EGLL) is a major international airport in west London, England. Heathrow is the busiest airport in the United Kingdom, busiest airport in Europe by passenger traffic, and third busiest airport in the world by total passenger traffic. In 2014, it handled a record 73.4 million passengers, a 1.4 percent increase from 2013. The airport is the primary hub of British Airways and is a base for Virgin Atlantic. It has four passenger terminals (numbered 2 to 5) and a cargo terminal. Of Heathrow's 73.4 million passengers in 2014, 93% were international travellers; the remaining 7% were bound for UK destinations.
This distance is equal to 19.06 miles, and 16.55 nautical miles. Country Cities » United Kingdom » London Heathrow Airport | Greenwich. The distance line on map shows distance from London Heathrow Airport to Greenwich between two cities. If you travel with an airplane (which has average speed of 560 miles per hour) between London Heathrow Airport to Greenwich, 
Greenwich Airport Cars. Our Greenwich Car Service operates across London 24 hours a day and serves all of London’s major airports including Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted & Luton Airport. Across Greenwich, Lewisham & The London Area. Our Greenwich Airport Cars can collect you from anywhere in or around Greenwich from Lewisham to Catford
Heathrow lies 12 nautical miles (22 km; 14 mi) west of Central London, and has two parallel east–west runways along with four operational terminals on a site that covers 12.14 square kilometres (4.69 sq mi). The airport is the primary hub of British Airways and is a base for Virgin Atlantic. It has four passenger terminals (numbered 2 to 5) and a cargo terminal. Of Heathrow's 73.4 million passengers in 2014, 93% were international travellers; the remaining 7% were bound for UK destinations.
The London Borough of Greenwich is located East of Heathrow Airport a distance of around 30 miles a journey that would take around 55 minutes by taxi via the M4 and A102. Having age old connections to British Naval history the National Maritime Museum, The Cutty Sark and the Old Royal Naval College are ideal places to visit. Other key attractions include the Royal Observatory Greenwich, Rangers House, the Wernher Collection, Greenwich Park and Queens House.
It'll be £4 from Heathrow to North Greenwich which is much more reasonable. North Greenwich is the nearest tube station to the O2. Take the Piccadilly line to Green Park, and then take the Jubilee line from Green Park to Greenwich. And don't worry about luggage, the Tube trains have ample space for suitcases. Not really a problem. I would suggest using the underground service from Heathrow to Green Park, then changing to the Jubilee Line(destination Stratford), getting off at North Greenwich, which is adjacent to the 02.
We offer a transfer service from Greenwich to any U.K Airport, whether you need a car, people carrier, executive car, executive people carrier, minibus or indeed a coach Onward Travel Solutions Ltd are here to help. Having age old connections to British Naval history the National Maritime Museum, The Cutty Sark and the Old Royal Naval College are ideal places to visit. Other key attractions include the Royal Observatory Greenwich, Rangers House, the Wernher Collection, Greenwich Park and Queens House.