The Treblinka death camp was located 100 km (62 miles) northeast of Warsaw, near the railroad junction at the village of Malkinia Gorna, górna which is.2 5 (km.1 5) miles from the train station in the tiny village Of. treblinka The combined total of the deaths at Treblinka, Belzec and Sobibor was 1.5 million, according to Raul Hilberg. In June 1941, a forced labor camp for Jews and Polish political prisoners was set up near a gravel pit, a mile from where the Treblinka death camp would later be located.
Treblinka was in the former Russian section, but by 1942 it was occupied by the Nazis, who were then in a position to put their plan to exterminate the Jews into effect. The other two Operation Reinhard extermination camps (Sobibor and Belzec) were also located along the Bug river border, south of Treblinka. According to a pamphlet which I purchased at the camp tourist center, The extermination camp in Treblinka was built in the middle of 1942 near the already existing labour camp. It was surrounded by fence and rows of barbed wire along which there were watchtowers with machine guns every ten metres.
Operation Reinhard:Geographic Location: Treblinka Treblinka, the third Reinhard camp, was located about fifty miles northeast of Warsaw, and was established during June and July, 1942. Killing began on July 23, with the Jews of the Warsaw and Radom districts the victims. 
TREBLINKA TOUR. Treblinka is a tiny village located on the Bug river, 100 km from Warsaw. It takes 2 hours by car to get there. During the Second World War this place was chosen by the Nazis for extermination camp. It was established in 1942 within the framework of Operation Reinhard and it existed until 1943
They were transported there by train via Bielsk on November 8, 1942. Treblinka, established in 1941 as a forced labor camp for those accused of crimes by the occupation authorities was located 50 miles northeast of Warsaw, Poland.
The Willenberg Drawing of Treblinka. The death camp at Treblinka was located in the north-eastern region of the Generalgouvernement, in a sparsely populated area near Malkinia Gora, a junction on the Warsaw – Bialystok railway line, some 4km northwest of the small Treblinka village and its railway station. 
Treblinka was designed as a Nazi extermination camp in occupied Poland during World War II. The camp, constructed as part of Operation Reinhard, operated between July 1942 and October 1943 during which time approximately 850,000 men, women and children were murdered, including more than 800,000 Jews. According to a pamphlet which I purchased at the camp tourist center, The extermination camp in Treblinka was built in the middle of 1942 near the already existing labour camp. It was surrounded by fence and rows of barbed wire along which there were watchtowers with machine guns every ten metres.
Treblinka (. [trɛˈblʲinka]) was an extermination camp, built by Nazi Germany in occupied Poland during World War II. It was located near the village of Treblinka north-east of Warsaw in what is now the Masovian Voivodeship. The camp operated between 23 July 1942 and 19 October 1943 as part of Operation Reinhard, the most deadly phase of the Final Solution. The second camp, Treblinka II, was an extermination camp (Vernichtungslager). A small number of men who were not killed immediately upon arrival became its Jewish slave-labour units called Sonderkommandos, forced to bury the victims' bodies in mass graves.
World War II history [edit]. Treblinka was the location of Treblinka extermination camp where an estimated 850,000 people were systematically murdered during the Holocaust in Poland. About 800,000 of them were Polish Jews. 