A spice mixture known as hawaij is employed in many Yemeni dishes. Hawaij includes aniseeds, fennel seeds, ginger, and cardamom. Yemeni cuisine is often prepared hot and spicy with the use of chili peppers, cumin, coriander seeds, turmeric, and other spices. Herbs such as fenugreek, mint, and cilantro are also used. Fenugreek is used as one of the main ingredients in the preparation of a paste or sauce called holba (also spelled hulba)
Back to top IRAQ Iraq's cuisine is the most varied cuisine of all the Middle Eastern countries and is known for its sophistication. Iraqi's use a variety of vegetables such as; eggplant, okra, green beans, green peas, zucchini, chard, fava beans, wheat, barley, rice, and bulgur. 
There are many types of ogda and it can be made with small pieces of lamb, chicken, or fish that is mixed and cooked together with any vegetables including tomato, carrot, potato, zucchini, etc. This dish is extremely popular among people trying Yemeni food for the first time. It is also eaten traditionally with Yemeni bread, which serves as a utensil to scoop up the food. Matfaiya. Matfaiya (مطفاية) is made with large chunks of kingfish in a thick, tomato based sauce with other vegetables. Yogurt salad (سلطة خيار باللبن) is another sauce like sahawiq that can go with the meat or rice. It is made with yogurt, cucumbers, and sometimes carrots. Hulba. (hilbeh, hilba, helba, halba). Hulba (حلبة, fenugreek in English) is a main ingredient of Yemeni food, particularly salta, and can also come on the side.
Fahsa (فحسة) is a Yemeni stew made of lamb cutlets into a lamb soup with spices and holba (fenugreek). The pieces of meat are small and there are not any noticeable vegetables. It is also eaten traditionally with Yemeni bread, which serves as a utensil to scoop up the food. Ogda. (ogdat, agdah). Ogda (عقدة), meaning knot, is a stew made from tying and mixing all the ingredients together. Yogurt salad (سلطة خيار باللبن) is another sauce like sahawiq that can go with the meat or rice. It is made with yogurt, cucumbers, and sometimes carrots. Hulba. (hilbeh, hilba, helba, halba). Hulba (حلبة, fenugreek in English) is a main ingredient of Yemeni food, particularly salta, and can also come on the side.
Famous stew dishes include salta, fahsa, and odgat. Yemeni cuisine also includes mandi, which are the huge rice dishes with meat on top. Yemeni desserts are also very unique and heavy with dates, bananas, bread, honey, cheese, and cream. Mandi (???????) is the traditional dish in Yemen native to Hadhramaut Province and many other Yemeni cities. It is now very popular in the rest of the Arabian Peninsula. Mandi is usually made from meat (lamb or chicken), basmati rice, and a mixture of spices.
Traditional Yemeni food. Tweet. Traditional Yemeni food Traditional Yemeni food is very simple and always prepared with fresh ingredients. Although it differs from one region to another, basic dishes are similar and often include bread, rice, vegetables, beans, chicken, beef and lamb. Red and green chilies, essential ingredients in many Yemeni dishes, are a good source of vitamin B6. Red chilies also contain vitamin C and carotene. Chilies have been shown to delay the onset of arthritis and reduce associated inflammation and pain.
Yemeni cuisine is entirely distinct from the more widely known Middle Eastern cuisines and even differs slightly from region to region. Typical Yemeni dishes, that resemble stews and are eaten with bread, are cooked in traditional black, stone pots (called madara) that have age and character. Mandi (???????) is the traditional dish in Yemen native to Hadhramaut Province and many other Yemeni cities. It is now very popular in the rest of the Arabian Peninsula. Mandi is usually made from meat (lamb or chicken), basmati rice, and a mixture of spices.
Yemeni Food Recipes. Yemeni food recipes have developed over millennia with strong influences from East Africa, India and Persia. The region which is Yemen has a long history of trade and that is well reflected in the cuisine. The best way to understand how the Yemeni cuisine has come to be is through history. Lime or lemon are often used to provide an acidy tang. The two grains in most ample use are rice and wheat. Vegetables like garlic, onion, okra, tomato, bell pepper and aubergine are in frequent use; so are a number of leafy greens. Pulses like lentils, beans and chickpeas form the base of many Yemeni food recipes.