Related job categories: Government, Clergy. Browse Non-Profit and Social Services jobs by salary range: , $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or. Search by: Keyword Category. Search. Jobs by Salary Ranges: Click a salary category to find jobs in your target salary range
According to the BLS, the average salary for child, family, and school social workers was $42,120 in 2013. In the same year, the BLS reported that the average salary for mental health and substance abuse social workers was $40,970. Show me 10 popular schools. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a domestic violence social worker. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling, job duties and salary projections and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
Other types of social workers, such as those who work for hospitals, social advocacy organizations and the federal government, earned average wages of $26.07 per hour or $54,220 per year as of May 2011. BLS data for 2011 show that social workers in the federal government earned the highest hourly wages, followed by social workers in hospital systems. Social workers in federal agencies such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services averaged $33.97 per hour. Medical social workers averaged $28.56 per hour.
If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Non-Profit and Social Services jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. Browse Non-Profit and Social Services jobs by salary range: , $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or. Search by: Keyword Category. Search. Jobs by Salary Ranges: Click a salary category to find jobs in your target salary range
Career Outlook and Salary. The BLS predicted that the employment for all social workers would grow by 19% between 2012 and 2022 (www.bls.gov). Child, family, and school social workers generally specialize in a particular area, such as domestic violence, and the BLS projected a 15% growth for them over the same period. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a domestic violence social worker. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling, job duties and salary projections and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
Job Duties. Domestic violence social workers offer assistance when an individual or family's safety is threatened by abuse in the home. They can work in a variety of settings, including government agencies, nonprofit-run shelters, transitional housing facilities, counseling centers, schools, or hospital emergency rooms. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a domestic violence social worker. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling, job duties and salary projections and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
If you are unsure how much your Non-Profit and Social Services job pays you can choose to either browse all Non-Profit and Social Services salaries below or you can search all Non-Profit and Social Services salaries. Other related categories you may wish to browse are Government jobs and Clergy jobs. jobs in. Browse Non-Profit and Social Services jobs by salary range: , $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or. Search by: Keyword Category. Search. Jobs by Salary Ranges: Click a salary category to find jobs in your target salary range
States. Among the states and District of Columbia, social workers in Connecticut earned the highest average pay at $29.90 an hour. It was followed by New Jersey at an average of $27.77 an hour, Minnesota at $27.51 and Rhode Island at $26.96. The state with the most social workers, California, paid an average of $24.05 an hour. BLS data for 2011 show that social workers in the federal government earned the highest hourly wages, followed by social workers in hospital systems. Social workers in federal agencies such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services averaged $33.97 per hour. Medical social workers averaged $28.56 per hour.
Whether your non-profit is an arts organization, a church, a community organization, or provides social services, the City of Chicago offers a wide variety of services and documents that can help, such as applications to perform at City festivals, reports on homelessness, pamphlets on domestic violence, and many others. 