These rocks include andesite, basalt, obsidian, pumice, rhyolite, scoria, and tuff. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common igneous rock types are shown on this page. Diorite is a coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock that contains a mixture of feldspar, pyroxene, hornblende and sometimes quartz. Igneous rocks are formed from the solidification of molten rock material. There are two basic types. Intrusive igneous rocks crystallize below Earth's surface and the slow cooling that occurs there allows large crystals to form. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are diorite, gabbro, granite, pegmatite, and peridotite. Extrusive igneous rocks erupt onto the surface where they cool quickly to form small crystals. Some cool so quickly that they form an amorphous glass
To be called a pegmatite, a rock should be composed almost entirely of crystals that are at least one centimeter in diameter. The name pegmatite has nothing to do with the mineral composition of the rock. Most pegmatites have a composition that is similar to granite with abundant quartz, feldspar and mica. These are sometimes called granite pegmatites to indicate their mineralogical composition. Some of the world s best tourmaline, aquamarine and topaz deposits have been found in pegmatites. Large crystals in igneous rocks are usually attributed to a slow rate of crystallization. However, with pegmatites, large crystals are attributed to low-viscosity fluids that allow ions to be very mobile.
Pegmatite containing lepidolite, tourmaline, and quartz from the White Elephant Mine in the Black Hills, South Dakota. A pegmatite is a holocrystalline, intrusive igneous rock composed of interlocking phaneritic crystals usually larger than 2.5 cm in size; such rocks are referred to as pegmatitic. Most pegmatites are composed of quartz, feldspar and mica, having a similar basic composition as granite. The single feature that is diagnostic to all pegmatites is their large size crystal components. Pegmatite bodies are usually of minor size compared to typical intrusive rock bodies. Pegmatite body size is on the order of magnitude of one to a few hundred meters. Compared to typical igneous rocks they are rather inhomogeneous and may show zones with different mineral assemblages
Igneous Rocks. Igneous rocks are rocks which solidify from molten material (magma). Cooling of the magma can occur beneath the surface (plutonic) or on the surface (volcanic). Igneous rocks can be identified by the determination of the composition and texture of the rock. Once these two characteristics have been identified, the Igneous Rock Identification chart is used to identify the rock name
Pegmatites may be composed of a variety of minerals. Terms such as granite pegmatite, gabbro pegmatite, syenite pegmatite, or names with any other plutonic rock type as prefix are used. Compositions in the range from granodiorite to granite are common. Some pegmatite bodies are small irregular patches less than 1 cm. (0.4 in) across in larger masses of plutonic or metamorphic rocks. Others may be thousands of meters in length and hundreds of meters thick. Some appear as dikes, veins, or sills. Many have irregular outlines.
Rhyolite has the same chemical and mineral content as granite. 4. andesite Andesite is the name of fine-grained igneous rocks that are midway in color and mineral composition between rhyolite and basalt. Andesites are commonly gray or some shade of medium brown. These rocks can be identified by their textures, mineral content, and color. Refer to Igneous Rocks Photos for more visual examples of each of these igneous rock types. glassy texture 1. obsidian Obsidian is volcanic glass without gas bubbles.
Pegmatite is an igneous rock composed almost entirely of crystals that are over one centimeter in diameter. The specimen shown here is about two inches (five centimeters) across. A crystal of imperial topaz on an allbite matrix from a pocket in the Katlang Pegmatite of Pakistan. Some of the world s best tourmaline, aquamarine and topaz deposits have been found in pegmatites. Large crystals in igneous rocks are usually attributed to a slow rate of crystallization. However, with pegmatites, large crystals are attributed to low-viscosity fluids that allow ions to be very mobile.