Foraminal Stenosis. Foraminal Stenosis is the narrowing of the cervical disc space caused by enlargement of a joint (the uncinate process) in the spinal canal. The majority of symptoms with this type of cervical spinal stenosis are usually caused by one nerve root on one side. 
Foraminal Stenosis. Foraminal stenosis is a narrowing of the spinal foramen, the hole through which passes a spinal nerve as it exits the spine (foramen basically just means hole). It is usually a form of degenerative spine disease which occurs slowly over time with wear and tear of the spinal column. At each level, a spinal nerve, a nerve coming to or from the spinal cord, passes through the foramen. Because the foramen is a relatively small area, anything impinging on that area can cause foraminal stenosis is pinch the nerves inside
Foraminal narrowing, or foraminal stenosis, is a condition of the spine that can cause pain and other symptoms resulting from spinal nerve root compression. At every level of the spine, a pair of nerve roots runs through the spinal column via small openings called foramina (singular: foramen). 
Foraminal Stenosis Definition. Foraminal Stenosis is the narrowing of the cervical disc space caused by enlargement of a joint (the uncinate process) in the spinal canal. The majority of symptoms with this type of cervical spinal stenosis are usually caused by one nerve root on one side. Foraminal Stenosis is the narrowing of the cervical disc space caused by enlargement of a joint (the uncinate process) in the spinal canal
A foramen exists at each level of the spine with one on each side. At each level, a spinal nerve, a nerve coming to or from the spinal cord, passes through the foramen. Because the foramen is a relatively small area, anything impinging on that area can cause foraminal stenosis is pinch the nerves inside the foramen.
Foraminal stenosis symptoms vary on which section of the spine is affected. For cervical (neck) foramen, pain may be in the neck and/or shoulders, may radiate to the arms, hands, and fingers, and may be numbing, sharp, tingling, or burning. 1 Foraminal stenosis is when the foramen is constricted and compressed against the spinal cord and/or spinal nerves. 2  The foramen is the opening between the spinal vertebrae and spinal nerve exits.