Origin of the name Kieran: A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. Kiaran From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Origin of the name Kieran: A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. humans
Ciaran. Meaning of the Irish name Ciaran. Listen and learn how to pronounce Ciaran so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: ciar “”dark”” and the diminutive-in it means “”little dark one.”” Popular for over 1500 years, at least 26 saints have borne the name.
Ciaran ciarán is a (Diminutive english And) irish of the Name (Ciar). Irish ciaran ciarán is also (A) variation irish of The (Name kieran English). And irish see also the, Related (Form). Carran english ciaran ciarán is rare as a. baby boy name Ciaran ciarán is also a (Variation) irish of the Name (Kieran english And). Irish see also the related, Form (Carran). English ciaran ciarán is rare as a baby. Boy name it is not listed in the. top 1000
Ciaran /cia-ran/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Ciaran) is pronounced KEE-a-rawn. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Ciaran is black. Ciar n is derived from ciar. Often anglicized as Kieran. Name of two Irish saints, a hermit of the fifth century and the founder of the monastery. Ciaran is an unusual first name for men. Ciaran is also an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ciaran for boys.
Meaning of the Irish name Ciaran. MEANING: ciar “”dark”” and the diminutive-in it means “”little dark one.”” Popular for over 1500 years, at least 26 saints have borne the name. Listen and learn how to pronounce Ciaran so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name
Ciaran ciarán is also a (Variation) irish of the Name (Kieran english And). Irish see also the related, Form (Carran). English ciaran ciarán is rare as a baby. Boy name it is not listed in the. Top 1000, in 2012 out of the family of boy names directly Linked, To ciaran ciarán kieran was the. most commonly used Ciaran ciarán is also a (Variation) irish of the Name (Kieran english And). Irish see also the related, Form (Carran). English ciaran ciarán is rare as a baby. Boy name it is not listed in the. top 1000
It is derived from Celtic origins. Ciaran ciarán is a (Diminutive english And) irish of the Name (Ciar). Irish ciaran ciarán is also (A) variation irish of The (Name kieran English). And irish see also the, Related (Form). Carran english ciaran ciarán is rare as a. Baby boy name it is not listed in. the top 1000 Ciaran ciarán is also a (Variation) irish of the Name (Kieran english And). Irish see also the related, Form (Carran). English ciaran ciarán is rare as a baby. Boy name it is not listed in the. top 1000
[ 2 syll. cia-ran, ci-ar-an ] The baby boy name Ciaran is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is K IH-R-aeN †. Ciaran is used chiefly in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic. Ciaran is a variant of the name Kieran (English and Irish). Ciaran is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Out of the group of boy names directly linked to Ciaran, Kieran was the most popular in 2012.