An intangible asset is a non-physical asset having a useful life greater than one year. These assets are generally recognized as part of an acquisition, where the acquirer is allowed to assign some portion of the purchase price to acquired intangible assets.
Intangible Asset. Definition: An intangible asset is a non-physical asset having a useful life greater than one year. If an intangible asset is determined to have a useful life, then its book value is amortized over that useful life.
Definition. Reputation, name recognition, and intellectual property such as knowledge and know how. Intangible assets are the long-term resources of an entity, but have no physical existence. They derive their value from intellectual or legal rights, and from the value they add to the other assets.
An intangible asset is an asset that lacks physical substance and usually is very hard to evaluate. It includes patents, copyrights, franchises, goodwill, trademarks, trade names.
A company's nonphysical assets, such as intellectual property (items such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, and business methodologies), goodwill, and brand recognition; an intangible asset can be classified as either indefinite or definite.
Some intangible assets have indefinite or unlimited useful life, such as goodwill. Such assets are not amortized. Others have a definite useful life and are amortized over their useful life. Most of intangible assets are amortized using straight line method. Useful life is the shorter of legal life and economic life.
Identifiable long-term assets of a company having no physical existence are called intangible assets. They include goodwill, patents, copyrights, etc. Intangible assets are either acquired in a business combination or developed internally.
intangible asset. An asset such as a patent, goodwill, or a mining claim that has no physical properties. Since intangible assets are often difficult to value accurately, such assets when included on a corporate balance sheet may have a true value significantly different from the dollar amounts indicated there.
An asset that is not physical in nature. Corporate intellectual property (items such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, business methodologies), goodwill and brand recognition are all common intangible assets in today's marketplace.