There are different types of RNA, such as rRNA, mRNA, tRNA, but the nucleotide is the same as DNA except it has ribose has the sugar instead of deoxyribose (hence the name of the nucleic acids. I haven taken AP BIO. I got a 5 on the AP exam, and 99 average. My SAT BIO was a perfect 800. RNA consists of a nitrogenous base, a ribose sugar, and a phosphate The base have four units Uracil, Adenine, Guanine and Cytosine (Adenine and guanine are purines, cytosine and uracil are pyrimidines) better check Wikipedia or biology books for more information. HeLmI 89 · 7 years ago.
A nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nitrogenous base. In RNA the sugar is ribose, in DNA it is deoxyribose. DNA contains the bases A, T, C and G. RNA contains … the bases A, U, C and G. 1 person found this useful. These three parts are  nitrogenous bases, pentose sugars, and phosphate groups.  Nucleotides are the building blocks of DNA and RNA.
Here's the answer for both DNA and RNA. Answer: Both deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleotides which consist of three parts: 1  Nitrogenous Base. 2  Purines and pyrimidines are the two categories of nitrogenous bases. 3  Pentose Sugar. 4  In DNA, the sugar is 2'-deoxyribose. 5  Phosphate Group. 6  A single phosphate group is PO 4 3- 
The structure of nucleotide monomers. A nucleotide is made of a nucleobase (also termed a nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2-deoxyribose) depending on if it is DNA or RNA, and one or, depending on the definition, more than one phosphate groups. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups.
Nucleotides are the building blocks of the DNA and RNA used as genetic material. Nucleotides also are used for cell signaling and to transport energy throughout cells. You may be asked to name the three parts of a nucleotide and explain how they are connected or bonded to each other. Answer: Both deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleotides which consist of three parts: 1  Nitrogenous Base. 2  Purines and pyrimidines are the two categories of nitrogenous bases.
This nucleotide contains the five-carbon sugar deoxyribose, a nitrogenous base called adenine, and one phosphate group. Together, the deoxyribose and adenine make up a nucleoside (specifically, a deoxyribonucleoside) called deoxyadenosine. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups.
Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomers, or subunits, of nucleic acids like DNA and RNA. The building blocks of nucleic acids, nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups.
The molecular unit from which DNA and RNA are made. In DNA, a nucleotide consists of a 'base' [adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) or thymine (T)] linked to the sugar deoxyribose and a phosphate group. Many nucleotide units joined together via their sugar-phosphate groups make up a DNA molecule. In RNA, the sugar is ribose and the base thymine is replaced by uracil (U). The sequence of a DNA or RNA molecule is usually described as the sequence of its bases, eg AAAAGTTCGTCTAGGTC. Something like the three parts that make up DNA is Phosphate, Deoxyribose Sugar, and Nitrogen Base. I am not looking for the three types of RNA that help build proteins. Thanks in advanced!!!! P.S. if there is no such answer please tell me