A Crawley, Gatwick, Horley, Ifield or Three Bridges PLUSBUS ticket gives you unlimited bus travel on participating operators’ services, around the whole urban area of Crawley, Gatwick, Horley, Ifield and Three Bridges (as defined by the travel zone map below).
Trains to Crawley. Direct rail helps you to find cheap trains to Crawley from any other train station on the national rail network. Not only will you find the cheapest advance fares to Crawley right now but also flexible off-peak and anytime fares too.
History. Crawley’s original train station was built in 1848 close to the southern end of the High Street, serving the newly-created line between Three Bridges and Horsham. In 1862 this single-track line was replaced by two tracks.
1 Direct train services connect Crawley with London (mainly London Victoria, but also London Bridge), Horsham, Bognor Regis, Chichester and Portsmouth. 2  Services to Haywards Heath and Brighton pass through Three Bridges station, about one mile to the east.
If you're looking for cheap train tickets to or from Crawley, you've come to the right place. MyTrainTicket can help you find cheap train tickets to Crawley from any other train station. We've got all the cheapest Advance fares to Crawley available right now, as well as flexible Off-Peak and Anytime fares.
Notes: The London and North Western Railway opened Husborne Crawley station in 1905 to cater for the new railmotor service between Bletchley and Bedford which began on 1 December 1905; it was one of seven new halts. The exact opening date is unclear.
The Arora Hotel Gatwick-Crawley is situated in the heart of Crawley town centre and is only a short journey from Gatwick Airport through rapid connections from Crawley’s main line train station from which the hotel has direct access.
Crawley railway station is the final stop on the Arun Valley Line before it rejoins the Brighton Main Line and serves the town of Crawley in West Sussex, England. The station is operated by Southern and is some 30 miles to the south of London Victoria railway station.