Juice Plus+ is a branded line of dietary supplements containing concentrated fruit and vegetable juice extracts fortified with added vitamins and nutrients. It is produced by Natural Alternatives International of San Marcos, California, for National Safety Associates (NSA; Collierville, Tennessee). 
They want you to compare it to “whole food”. The research shows that while Juice Plus claims to be “whole food” and “natural” the fact is that the Juice Plus capsules contain a variety of synthetic vitamin additives and non-nutritive fillers and only about 25% juice powders by weight. As a nutritionist I feel I must also put an end to the Juice Plus commercial happening on these comments. The bottles don’t list the amounts of vitamins and minerals on the bottles because they don’t want you to compare the product to a multivitamin.
Luisa, as I understand it one a day multiple vitamin is a vitamin and juice plus is a fruit/veggie supplement. as such if you were to compare them. juice plus would probalby have less of some vitamins/minerals than the one-a-day multi. Because of this I still think taking an inexpensive multi is good to do. As a nutritionist I feel I must also put an end to the Juice Plus commercial happening on these comments. The bottles don’t list the amounts of vitamins and minerals on the bottles because they don’t want you to compare the product to a multivitamin.
1 The Ultimate Fruit and Veggie Super Food™ With a nutritional profile equivalent to the followingservings of fruits and vegetables*: Beta Carotene = ½ Cup Carrot} DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGood_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|Setting your Club will show you Product availability and pick up options while you are shopping. The Ultimate Fruit and Veggie Super Food™. With a nutritional profile equivalent to the followingservings of fruits and vegetables*: 1  Beta Carotene = ½ Cup Carrots + 1 Mango. 2  Vitamin C = 2 Apples + ½ Cup Oranges +1 Cup Strawberries.
It's the ultimate fruit and vegetable super food! JuiceFestiv provides a full-spectrum of food colors and an excellent source of antioxidant nutrients Vitamin A (beta Carotene) and vitamin C. It features 46 fruits, vegetables, spirulina, wheatgrass, barley grass, plus antioxidants, probiotics and digestive enzymes. Product Label: JuiceFestiv Fruit & Veggie Super Food. I found JuiceFestiv at my local wholesale club a few times, but then they couldn't keep it in...I discovered Swanson Vitamins when looking for it online, not only was it the same cost as the wholesale club, but when I ordered there was a deal for low shipping, and I found a few other things I needed that I use.
A: JuiceFestiv ® contains unique formula of 46 Fruits & Vegetables + Antioxidants, Probiotics and Digestive Enzymes. JuiceFestiv is rated 4.0 out of 5 by 3. Rated 5 out of 5 by Scottl from Works great for us Sure beats eating fruit and veggies everyday. Really painless to use. Further, the ingredients cannot be processed with chemical solvents. “Made with Organic Ingredients” means that no less than 70% of what is inside of JuiceFestiv ® is organic. If you look at the formula on the back of the box, the organic fruits and vegetables are specified within the parenthesis.
Folate-Rich Foods. This B-complex vitamin can be found in many 'good for you' foods. Plus, manufacturers of cereals, pastas, and breads often fortify their products with folate. How It Works. The thought is that when someone has low levels of folate, it's more likely for mutations in DNA to occur, Stolzenberg-Solomon says. 
A: JuiceFestiv ® contains the antioxidants Beta Carotene, Vitamin C, Vitamin E and Selenium. They all function differently in the body. As a general rule, they help provide cellular protection from free radicals. Further, the ingredients cannot be processed with chemical solvents. “Made with Organic Ingredients” means that no less than 70% of what is inside of JuiceFestiv ® is organic. If you look at the formula on the back of the box, the organic fruits and vegetables are specified within the parenthesis.