Astaxanthin (pronounced asta-ZAN-thin) is a naturally-occurring carotenoid found in algae, shrimp, lobster, crab and salmon. Carotenoids are pigment colors that occur in nature and support good health. Beta carotene, for example, is orange. Astaxanthin, dubbed the king of the carotenoids is red, and is responsible for turning salmon, crab, lobster and shrimp flesh pink. In the animal kingdom, astaxanthin is found in the highest concentration in the muscles of salmon.
Astaxanthin is LIKELY SAFE when it is consumed in amounts found in food. Astaxanthin is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth as a supplement. Astaxanthin has been used safely by itself in doses of 4 to 40 mg daily for up to 12 weeks. It has been used safely in combination with other carotenoids, vitamins and minerals at 4 mg daily for up to 12 months. 1 Indigestion (dyspepsia). 2  Early research shows that taking astaxanthin daily for 4 weeks does not reduce stomach pain, indigestion or the amount of bacteria (H. pylori) in the stomach that may cause stomach pain.
Fish oil isn't the only thing from the ocean that can improve function in the human body. Astaxanthin is a carotenoid pigment that’s found in trout, microalgae, yeast, and shrimp, among other sea creatures. It is most commonly found in Pacific salmon, and is what gives the fish its pinkish color. An antioxidant, astaxanthin is said to have many health benefits. 
1 Early research suggests that a combination product (BioAstin) containing astaxanthin, lutein, beta-carotene, and vitamin E taken by mouth 3 times daily for 8 weeks does not reduce pain in people with carpal tunnel syndrome. 1 Indigestion (dyspepsia). 2  Early research shows that taking astaxanthin daily for 4 weeks does not reduce stomach pain, indigestion or the amount of bacteria (H. pylori) in the stomach that may cause stomach pain.
What I have found out is that astaxanthin is a red carotenoid that resembles beta-carotein in molecular structure. It is produced by an alga and is eaten by salmon and lobster, hence their pink color. 
Astaxanthin is part of the carotenoid family, an organic pigment found in algae (Haematococcus Pluvialis), bacteria and plants. Carotenoids are what gives flowers, fruits and vegetables their vibrant colors. 
Astaxanthin is a reddish pigment that belongs to a group of chemicals called carotenoids. It occurs naturally in certain algae and causes the pink or red color in salmon, trout, lobster, shrimp, and other seafood. 1 Indigestion (dyspepsia). 2  Early research shows that taking astaxanthin daily for 4 weeks does not reduce stomach pain, indigestion or the amount of bacteria (H. pylori) in the stomach that may cause stomach pain.
Astaxanthin is a carotenoid and a powerful antioxidant. Our bodies do not synthesize astaxanthin, so it can only be obtained from food or supplementation. Astaxanthin does not convert into vitamin A – good news, because it means that supplementation will not lead to vitamin A overdose and toxicity. Clinical studies have proven that supplemental astaxanthin is readily absorbed into the blood from the intestines and crosses blood-brain barrier. Astaxanthin plasma elimination half-life was assessed at 52 (+/- 40) hours (how fast it is eliminated from blood after a person stops taking a supplement).
Astaxanthin is a super antioxidant carotenoid that is found in krill oil. This powerful antioxidant provides exceptional protection against oxidation, greatly extending the life of krill oil. Fish oil, on the other hand can oxidize, spoiling its benefits and releasing free radicals in the body. Astaxanthin is found in microalgae, krill and in such seafood as salmon, trout and shrimp. It's a carotenoid, which means it's related to vitamin A, beta-carotene, lutein and zeaxanthin. Astaxanthin may have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties