With a traditional IRA, you pay the taxes on the back end-that is, when you withdraw the money in retirement. But, in some cases, you may escape taxes on the front end-when you put the money into the account. With a Roth IRA, it's the exact opposite. You pay the taxes on the front end, but there are no taxes on the back end. And remember, in both traditional and Roth IRAs, your money grows tax free while it's in the account. There are other differences too. While almost anyone with earned income can contribute to a traditional IRA, there are income limits for contributing to a Roth IRA. Roth IRAs are more flexible if you need to withdraw some of the money early. With a Roth IRA, you can leave the money in for as long as you want, letting it grow and grow as you get older and older. With a traditional IRA, by contrast, you must start withdrawing the money by the time you reach age 70½.
Ultimate guide to retirement. A Roth IRA is a retirement savings account that allows your money to grow tax-free. You fund a Roth with after-tax dollars, meaning you've already paid taxes on the money you put into it. In return for no up-front tax break, your money grows and grows tax free, and when you withdraw at retirement, you pay no taxes. That's right-every penny goes straight in your pocket.
A Roth IRA (Individual Retirement Arrangement) is a retirement plan under US law that is generally not taxed, provided certain conditions are met. The tax law of the United States allows a tax reduction on a limited amount of saving for retirement. 1 Direct contributions to a Roth IRA (principal) may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free at any time. 2  Earnings may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free after 5 years if the condition of age 59½ (or other qualifying condition) is also met.
A Roth IRA can also be an individual retirement annuity, which is an annuity contract or an endowment contract purchased from a life insurance company. As with all IRAs, the Internal Revenue Service mandates specific eligibility and filing status requirements. 1 Direct contributions to a Roth IRA (principal) may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free at any time. 2  Earnings may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free after 5 years if the condition of age 59½ (or other qualifying condition) is also met.
Although there is no up-front tax deduction for Roth IRA contributions as there is with a traditional IRA, Roth distributions are tax-free when you follow the rules. You can contribute to a Roth IRA at any age as long as you have earned income from a job. That means they are appropriate for everyone from child actors to septuagenarian Wal-Mart greeters.
For 2015, you can contribute the maximum $5,500 to a Roth IRA ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older by the end of the year) if you are single or the single head of a household and your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) is less than $164,000. You can contribute to a Roth IRA at any age as long as you have earned income from a job. That means they are appropriate for everyone from child actors to septuagenarian Wal-Mart greeters.
A Roth IRA is a special retirement account where you pay taxes on money going into your account and then all future withdrawals are tax fee. Like beauty, the benefit of a Roth IRA is in the eye of the beholder and it all depends on the beholder’s tax bracket--both now and when he or she retires. You can contribute to a Roth IRA at any age as long as you have earned income from a job. That means they are appropriate for everyone from child actors to septuagenarian Wal-Mart greeters.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. The same combined contribution limit applies to all of your Roth and traditional IRAs
An individual retirement account (IRA) allows you to save money for retirement in a tax-advantaged way. An IRA is an account set up at a financial institution that allows an individual to save for retirement with tax-free growth or on a tax-deferred basis. 
With a Roth IRA, you make contributions with money on which you've already paid taxes. Your money can then potentially grow tax-free, with tax-free withdrawals in retirement, provided that certain conditions are met. 1. 