Pisces Pi is the main protagonist of the animated film The Reef and its sequel The Reef 2: High Tide; He is voiced by Freddie Prinze Jr In the first film and Drake Bell in the second. The Reef 2: High Tide. By the sequel Pi is a father and has to face Troy again but tries to train the other fish. But Troy has a dwarf shark named Ronny to stall his training. Pi gets an idea to create a shark Trap to catapult Troy out of the sea and orders he two to get him supplies.
Best Answer: I'm wondering if she is trying to say Shark. I found this movie summary-also called Shark Bait. After Pi, an ordinary little fish from Boston, is orphaned when his parents are snared by a fisherman's net, he travels to an exotic reef to live with his Aunt Pearl. As he tries to orient himself in this new world, Pi meets the fish of his dreams, the beautiful and kind Cordelia, but things do not go swimmingly. Troy, the meanest shark in the ocean, is not only tormenting everyone in the reef community, but also has his eye on Cordelia
Shark Bait (The Reef in the UK, Australia and North America, Pi's Story in South Korea) is a 2006 South Korean-American computer animated film. The plot revolves around Pi and his attempt to win the heart of Cordelia while dealing with a tiger shark who is terrorizing him and the reef's inhabitants. 1 Freddie Prinze, Jr. as Pi (Pisces), a male orange wrasse fish, who is orphaned when his parents were caught in a fishing net. 2  Evan Rachel Wood as Cordelia, a female pink angelfish model for National Geographic and Pi's love interest.
Storyline. After losing everything, a young fish, Pi, goes to live with his family on the Reef. There he meets the love of his life but finds that she already has the unwanted affections of a bully shark. He must follow his destiny to save her and rid the Reef of this menace for good. Written by C. Ambrose. Trained in the skills of sea power, Pi the fish can fight a shark, sink a squid or batter any random predator that ever threatens his friends and neighbors on the reef.
Plot Summary. After losing everything, a young fish, Pi, goes to live with his family on the Reef. There he meets the love of his life but finds that she already has the unwanted affections of a bully shark. He must follow his destiny to save her and rid the Reef of this menace for good. Open iTunes to preview, buy, and download this movie. After losing everything, a young fish, Pi, goes to live with his family on the Reef. There he meets the love of his life but finds that she already has the unwanted affections of a bully shark.
Pisces, or Pi (Freddie Prinze, Jr.), is a 5 year old orange fish who lives happily with his parents Pike and Piara in the polluted harbor of Boston, Massachusetts, until a fishing boat scoops them from the sea. Pi's parents manage to help him escape, but cannot escape themselves. 1 Freddie Prinze, Jr. as Pi (Pisces), a male orange wrasse fish, who is orphaned when his parents were caught in a fishing net. 2  Evan Rachel Wood as Cordelia, a female pink angelfish model for National Geographic and Pi's love interest.
The Reef. In the first film, Troy lives in the reef and terrorizes everyone. He is accompanied by his cronies Bart the barracuda and Eddie the wolf eel. He is in love with Cordelia and wants to make her his mate, but Pi, the film's protagonist who is also in love with her, tries to protect her from the shark. 