1 Bring 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water to boil in a saucepan and lower in the steaming basket. 2  When the water has boiled, carefully add the peas to the steamer basket and cover tightly with a lid. 3  Fresh peas will steam in about 2 minutes while frozen peas may take 3 minutes. Boil the peas. 1  Judge how much water it would take to cover the peas, then add that amount of water to a pot. 2  Set the pot on high, and let it boil. 3  When it comes to a boil, quickly add the peas and turn the heat down to medium high. 4  Let the peas cook for 2 minutes if fresh, 3 minutes if frozen.
The French cook peas in the water it takes to moisten lettuce leaves. Line a saucepan with damp greens and a few pea pods, pour in the shelled peas and cover them with moist lettuce. Steam the peas over a high heat for about 3 minutes or until they are al dente, denté just. tender Steam the peas over a high heat for about 3 minutes or until they are al dente, denté just. Tender be careful not to overcook. Peas boiling or long steaming will increase water absorption and cause the peas to become soggy and. mushy
3. Cook in the microwave. 1  Place the frozen or fresh peas in a microwave safe bowl and add 1 tbsp. ( 2 15 ml) of water to the bowl. 3  Cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on high for 1 minute, then stir and continue heating in 1 minute intervals until hot. Boil the peas. 1  Judge how much water it would take to cover the peas, then add that amount of water to a pot. 2  Set the pot on high, and let it boil. 3  When it comes to a boil, quickly add the peas and turn the heat down to medium high. 4  Let the peas cook for 2 minutes if fresh, 3 minutes if frozen.
1 Place the frozen or fresh peas in a microwave safe bowl and add 1 tbsp. ( 2 15 ml) of water to the bowl. 3  Cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on high for 1 minute, then stir and continue heating in 1 minute intervals until hot. Boil the peas. 1  Judge how much water it would take to cover the peas, then add that amount of water to a pot. 2  Set the pot on high, and let it boil. 3  When it comes to a boil, quickly add the peas and turn the heat down to medium high. 4  Let the peas cook for 2 minutes if fresh, 3 minutes if frozen.
1 Cook onion, celery and garlic in bacon drippings until tender; add broth, salt, pepper and peas. 2  Bring to a boil and skim top if necessary. 3  Lower heat to simmer; crumble bacon and add to peas. 4  Adjust seasonings to taste, cover and simmer until peas are tender (30 minutes to 1 hour depending on how tender you like them). 
Fresh Peas, Sugar Snap Peas and Snow Peas. Prepare peas as state above for the variety of peas being cooked. To boil 1 1/2 to 2 pounds of fresh peas or a 10 oz. package of frozen, bring 2 quarts of water to a boil in a saucepan. Add 3/4 tablespoon of salt. Drop in green peas and boil uncovered for 2 to 3 minutes Begin checking for doneness after 1 minute. Remove some peas with a spoon and test for doneness, if not done, continue to cook for another minute and check doneness again.
4. Boil the peas. 1  Judge how much water it would take to cover the peas, then add that amount of water to a pot. 2  Set the pot on high, and let it boil. 3  When it comes to a boil, quickly add the peas and turn the heat down to medium high. 4  Let the peas cook for 2 minutes if fresh, 3 minutes if frozen.
Melt a dab of butter in a heavy saucepan and add the shelled peas. Cover the peas with heavy cream and cook gently until the peas are tender, about 6 to 8 minutes. Just before serving, add salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. You will need 3 to 4 pounds of peas in the pod to yield enough shelled peas to serve 4 people. Preparation: Fresh garden peas should be shelled just before cooking. Rinse the pods under cold running water; rub the pods gently to remove soil. To shell peas, snap off the stem end of the pod.
Fry up the side meat until it’s golden brown. Then, remove the pieces of meat from the pot but, leave the grease in. …. Add about 2 cups of water to the sauce pot. You need enough water to cover the peas by about an inch so it will really depend on how many peas you are cooking as to how much water you’ll need. …. Bring the water up to a low boil and then add the peas. 
Simmer young shelled peas 2 to 5 minutes. Steam young shelled peas 5 to 10 minutes. Simmering peas in water or light stock. Bring ⅛ to ½ inch of water or light stock (about ⅛ inch of liquid per pound of peas) to boiling in a medium saucepan. You will need 3 to 4 pounds of peas in the pod to yield enough shelled peas to serve 4 people. Preparation: Fresh garden peas should be shelled just before cooking. Rinse the pods under cold running water; rub the pods gently to remove soil. To shell peas, snap off the stem end of the pod.