More than 40 years later, however, a large gap in the human family tree has remained. Researchers have discovered numerous fossils from Lucy’s Australopithecus afarensis species—ape-like, bipedal human ancestors approximately 4 feet tall—that are 3 million years or older.
The cyanobacteria have an extensive fossil record. The oldest known fossils, in fact, are cyanobacteria from Archaean rocks of western Australia, dated 3.5 billion years old. This may be somewhat surprising, since the oldest rocks are only a little older: 3.8 billion years old! Cyanobacteria are among the easiest microfossils to recognize.
Cyanobacteria: Fossil Record. The cyanobacteria have an extensive fossil record. The oldest known fossils, in fact, are cyanobacteria from Archaean rocks of western Australia, dated 3.5 billion years old. This may be somewhat surprising, since the oldest rocks are only a little older: 3.8 billion years old! Cyanobacteria are among the easiest microfossils to recognize.
Just when you thought dinosaurs couldn't get any older, the oldest dinosaur has been found in Africa, a new study says. The fossils push back the dawn of the dinosaurs to around 240 million years ago—about 10 to 15 million years earlier than previously thought, scientists say.
According to a pair of newly published papers in the journal Science, paleoanthropologists working in Ethiopia have discovered a 2.8-million-year-old jawbone, making it the oldest fossil in the human ancestral line ever found by more than 400,000 years.
Scientists have found the oldest known rocks on Earth. They are 4.28 billion years old, making them 250 million years more ancient than any previously discovered rocks. Earth formed about 4.6 billion years ago from a disk of gas and dust circling the sun.
Palaeontologists have found what is likely to be the oldest known dinosaur, filling in a yawning evolutionary gap. A study in Biology Letters describes Nyasasaurus parringtoni, a new species from 10-15 million years before the previous earliest dinosaur specimens.