Top 10 facts about the world. Fusion cuisine blends the culinary traditions of two or more nations to create innovative and sometimes quite interesting dishes. It tends to be more common in culturally diverse and metropolitan areas, where there is a wider audience for such food. Some common examples include Pacific Rim cuisine and Tex-Mex food. Barbecued chicken pizza exemplifies a fusion of Italian and American Southwest cuisines. In fusion cuisine, a French restaurant might offer Vietnamese spring rolls. Chefs who specialize in creating fusion cuisine need to consider which combinations will be appealing to diners.
Fusion Restaurants LLC is a company founded with the purpose of developing and establishing restaurants with a common theme. 
Kaeng phet pet yang (Thai roast duck curry) is an example of early fusion cuisine of the cosmopolitan court of the Ayutthaya Kingdom (1350 to 1767) combining Thai red curry, Chinese roast duck and grapes originally from Persia. Such a restaurant might feature a wide variety of dishes inspired by a combination of various regional cuisines with new ideas. Foods in Malaysia are another popular example of fusion cuisine between Malay, Javanese, Chinese and Indian and light influences from Thai, Portuguese, Dutch, and British cuisines.
What is Fusion food to you? I want your opinions... would you consider a restaurant that serves Peruvian Rotisserie Chicken, Brazilian Churrasco, Basic Salads and Smoothies a Fusion Restaurant? Would it be misleading? Report Abuse. Friend here you go Fusion food: a style of cooking which is becoming increasingly popular the world over but it seems, also increasingly controversial. Some people seem to think that ingredients from different world cuisines should never meet on the same plate.
Yet we don't consider the sauce a Fusion dish. Without Fusion, the Italians wouldn't be serving polenta. Corn and maize are from the New World as it was once called – the Americas. Thai's wouldn't have chillies or peanuts – more staples from the New World. Thailand also wouldn't have coriander, which is a Mediterranean herb. Without this infusion of ingredients into our culinary lives, many cuisines would be all the less flavoursome. And it's with this in mind that Fusion Cuisine allows the introduction of foreign ingredients into our everyday lives, to enrich and stimulate us.
Definition of FUSION CUISINE. : food prepared by using the techniques and ingredients of two or more ethnic or regional cuisines. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.
Fusion cuisine probably needs a quick explanation. Food is as political a subject as many more seemingly controversial subjects. We like to think of it as a nurturing part of our day, one hopefully that we can enjoy as we partake in it. But food often plays an extraordinary role in shaping history. Without this infusion of ingredients into our culinary lives, many cuisines would be all the less flavoursome. And it's with this in mind that Fusion Cuisine allows the introduction of foreign ingredients into our everyday lives, to enrich and stimulate us.
Categories and types [edit]. Fusion food is a general term for the combination of various forms of cookery and comes in several forms. Regional fusion combines different cuisines of a region or sub-region into a single eating experience. Such a restaurant might feature a wide variety of dishes inspired by a combination of various regional cuisines with new ideas. Foods in Malaysia are another popular example of fusion cuisine between Malay, Javanese, Chinese and Indian and light influences from Thai, Portuguese, Dutch, and British cuisines.
Good fusion cuisine combines ingredients and cooking techniques from several cultures in a way which pulls together well, creating a seamless and fresh dish. Confusion cuisine, on the other hand, throws ingredients together like confetti, and sometimes causes an inevitable clash. Barbecued chicken pizza exemplifies a fusion of Italian and American Southwest cuisines. In fusion cuisine, a French restaurant might offer Vietnamese spring rolls. Chefs who specialize in creating fusion cuisine need to consider which combinations will be appealing to diners.