In some cases, medicine can be used to treat the condition; in others, surgery may be necessary. Bacterial endocarditis -- Bacterial endocarditis is a bacterial infection that can affect the valves of the heart causing deformity and damage to the leaflets of the valve(s). Effects: Regurgitation occurs when blood flows back into the valve as the leaflets close or leaks through the leaflets after they are closed. Heart valve disease occurs when one or more of the valves is damaged. Causes: Degenerative valve disease -- This is a common cause of valvular degeneration.
These stem cells demonstrate plasticity meaning that they become cell types that they would not normally be. The cells were used to form new blood vessels in the damaged area of the rats' hearts and to encourage proliferation of preexisting vasculature following the experimental heart attack. A next step in this research is to see whether the experimental evidence of improvement in outcome from heart attack in rodents can be reproduced using embryonic stem cells. These breakthrough discoveries in rodent models present new opportunities for using stem cells to repair damaged heart muscle.
Regurgitation/Insufficiency (leaky valve) - the valve does not close properly and allows blood to flow backward as well as forward in the heart. The valves in your heart may be damaged due to infection, rheumatic heart disease, wear and tear, tissue weakening or deterioration, or birth (congenital) defects. 
When the heart valves don't close properly and allow blood to leak through, it's called regurgitation. When the valve leaflets bulge or prolapse back into the upper chamber, it’s a condition called mitral valve prolapse. When this happens, they may not close properly. This allows blood to flow backward through them. If a blood clot forms, it can stop the blood flow. This can cause a heart attack or stroke. A heart attack occurs when the blood flow to a part of the heart is blocked by a blood clot.
The destruction of heart muscle cells, known as cardiomyocytes, can be the result of hypertension, chronic insufficiency in the blood supply to the heart muscle caused by coronary artery disease, or a heart attack, the sudden closing of a blood vessel supplying oxygen to the heart. A next step in this research is to see whether the experimental evidence of improvement in outcome from heart attack in rodents can be reproduced using embryonic stem cells. These breakthrough discoveries in rodent models present new opportunities for using stem cells to repair damaged heart muscle.
The pulmonary valve connects the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery, which carries blood from the heart to the lungs. Pulmonary regurgitation can occur as a result of endocarditis, a bacterial infection of the heart, or from pulmonary hypertension. The condition causes a fluid build-up in the legs and abdomen. A damaged valve can have either or both defects. Because heart valve damage often develops slowly, symptoms often are not present or are vague, such as a general feeling of fatigue. There are a few symptoms specific to each type of damage to each valve. A doctor, however, should make the final diagnosis.
Infective endocarditis (IE), also called bacterial endocarditis (BE), is an infection caused by bacteria that enter the bloodstream and settle in the heart lining, a heart valve or a blood vessel. IE is uncommon, but people with some heart conditions have a greater risk of developing it. 
1 Bacterial endocarditis -- Bacterial endocarditis is a bacterial infection that can affect the valves of the heart causing deformity and damage to the leaflets of the valve(s). 2  Regurgitation occurs when blood flows back into the valve as the leaflets close or leaks through the leaflets after they are closed. Heart valve disease occurs when one or more of the valves is damaged. Causes: Degenerative valve disease -- This is a common cause of valvular degeneration.
Stenosis refers to when blood is having difficultly flowing through the valves because of damage or scarring to the valves. A damaged valve can have either or both defects. Because heart valve damage often develops slowly, symptoms often are not present or are vague, such as a general feeling of fatigue. There are a few symptoms specific to each type of damage to each valve. A doctor, however, should make the final diagnosis.
Damage to the four valves of the heart can occur as a result of defects from birth, heart disease or chronic conditions such as emphysema or high blood pressure. Valve damage comes in two forms: regurgitation and stenosis. Regurgitation occurs when the valves are unable to close fully, allowing blood to flow backward. A damaged valve can have either or both defects. Because heart valve damage often develops slowly, symptoms often are not present or are vague, such as a general feeling of fatigue. There are a few symptoms specific to each type of damage to each valve. A doctor, however, should make the final diagnosis.