In her first post-Harry Potter film, Watson appeared in 2011's My Week with Marilyn as Lucy, a wardrobe assistant who is flirted with by the main character, Colin Clark, and has a few dates with him. With Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005), both Watson and the Harry Potter film series reached new milestones. The film set records for a Harry Potter opening weekend, a non-May opening weekend in the US, and an opening weekend in the UK.
All change: Single Made In Chelsea star Lucy Watson says she's 'cautious' about who she lets into her life after dating love rat Spencer Matthews. All over: Lucy dated Spencer briefly last summer but he soon confessed to cheating on her. EXCLUSIVE 'I'm cautious about who I let into my life after Spencer': Lucy Watson has her guard up following split from 'under the thumb' Made In Chelsea star. By Nicola Agius for MailOnline.
Say Hello To Emma Watson’s Brother, Alex. Yes, there is a male version of Emma Watson in this world. 
1 Like Hermione, Watson was born to two parents of the same occupation; Hermione's are both dentists, and Emma's are both lawyers. 2  In an interview, Watson said that she hates it so much when people call her Emily instead of Emma and is frequently confused with Oscar-nominated British actress Emily Watson. Watson with co-stars Daniel Radcliffe and Rupert Grint in promotional shot for Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. 1  Watson shares a birthday (April 15) and her own name with Harry Potter co-star Emma Thompson (who portrays Sybill Trelawney).
Emma Charlotte Duerre Watson (born 15 April 1990) is an English actress, model, and activist. Watson rose to prominence as Hermione Granger in the Harry Potter film series, appearing in all eight Harry Potter films from 2001 to 2011, previously having acted only in school plays. The franchise earned Watson worldwide fame, critical accolades, and more than £10 million. With Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005), both Watson and the Harry Potter film series reached new milestones. The film set records for a Harry Potter opening weekend, a non-May opening weekend in the US, and an opening weekend in the UK.
But Lucy Watson and her boyfriend James Dunmore clearly wanted some real, genuine alone time on Friday afternoon. The couple were seen taking break from their fellow Made In Chelsea cast-members to enjoy a romantic date in the Californian city. Scroll down for video. Loved up: Lucy Watson and her boyfriend James Dunmore clearly wanted some real, genuine alone time when they were spotted in LA on Friday afternoon. The brunette beauty cut a casual figure as she posed in a white T-shirt and black, skinny jeans with leather ankle boots for the outing at Universal Studios.
Watson won for British Artist of the Year and dedicated her award to Millie, her pet hamster who died as Watson filmed Philosopher's Stone. 2015 releases in which Emma stars include Colonia, a thriller co-starring Daniel Bruehl brühl And Michael. nyqvist With Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005), both Watson and the Harry Potter film series reached new milestones. The film set records for a Harry Potter opening weekend, a non-May opening weekend in the US, and an opening weekend in the UK.
Lucy Watson may refer to: 1  Lucy Watson, in Made in Chelsea. 2  Lucy Watson, wife of John Thornton (philanthropist). 3  Lucy Watson, of the Daybreak presenters and reporters. 
Lucy Watson-pub heir and own jewellery line. Lucy Watson (Doug Peters/Doug Peters/EMPICS Entertainment) Watson’s family isn’t short of a bob or two – her father is serial entrepreneur Clive Watson who founded and ran a number of pub chains including the City Pub Company, Tup Inns and the Capital Pub Company. Since joining the show in series four, 23-year-old Lucy Watson has been signed up as the new face, and body, of Gorgeous Couture. She replaced fellow Made in Chelsea star Louise Thompson at the fashion brand. As well as modelling, Watson has launched her own jewellery line, Creature Jewellery.