Physical Characteristics. Mane. The unique mane, is a feature the male lion has to make it look much more powerful than any other animal in the community. This gives the lion a very good advantage of gaining territory easily. The mane shows other mammals, that it is the one who is in charge. That's why they call the lion King of the Jungle..
Main Characteristics Mountain Lions are large, slender cats with strong muscular limbs. Typically males weigh between 53 and 72 Kgs (117 - 159lbs) and females between 34 and 48 Kgs (75 - 106lbs). Their average length is between 165 and 270 cms (65 - 106 inches). 
The lion is a member of the cat family, and shares many common traits of this family. The body is very muscular, with less bone mass than other animals of comparable size. This is also responsible for the grace of movement we associate with members of the cat family. Some lions in the Serengeti area and from North Africa have a nearly black mane. Just like the body hair, the mane color is determined by the ratio of dark hairs to light hairs present. The mane hair is stiff and wiry, like stiff horeshair. Besides it's primary role of protecting the male during fights, it has been discovered that female lions prefer males with bigger and darker manes
Lions are very social cats and live in groups called prides. Asiatic and African lion prides are very different, though. African lion prides consist of up to three males, around a dozen females, and their young, according to National Geographic. There are prides that have as many as 40 members, though. Asian lions divide themselves into two prides. The females have a pride and the males have a pride.
the characteristics that lions have are that they have huge teeth and ca hunt with them very easily(wannabe) Gossip Girl xxx xxx    Large, tawny-gold bodies covered in s … hort fur. Huge skulls, paws. Tufted tail. On the males, the most prominent feature is the mane of thicker, dark fur around the neck. They sleep a lot and live in prides, or groups of lions.    Some characteristics of a lion include large claws and sharp teeth  for hunting. Other characteristics include a tan coat coloring that  causes them to blend well with their surroundings. + 5 others found this useful. 
Behavior: Lions live in groups of related females called prides, which may comprise several to as many as 40 individuals, including adults, sub-adults (two to four years old) and cubs, plus one or more resident males. Abundance of prey availability plays a significant role in the size of a lion pride. 
Lion Characteristics. The lion is the second largest feline after the tiger. With powerful legs, a strong jaw, and 8 cm (3.1 in) long canine teeth, the lion can bring down and kill large prey. Lion coloration varies from light buff to yellowish, reddish or dark ochraceous brown. The underparts are generally lighter and the tail tuft is black. The color of the male's mane varies from blond to black, generally becoming darker as the lion grows older. Weights for adult lions generally lie between 150 - 241 kg (330 530 lb) for males, and 123 182 kg (270 400 lb) for females.
Physical Characteristics. Generally a tawny yellow, lions, like other species, tend to be lighter in color in hot, arid areas and darker in areas of dense vegetation. Mature male lions are unique among the cat species for the thick mane of brown or black hair that encircles the head and neck. The lion is a magnificent animal that appears as a symbol of power, courage and nobility on family crests, coats of arms and national flags in many civilizations. Lions at one time were found from Greece through the Middle East to northern India, but today only a very small population remains in India.