Making the world better, one answer at a time. The only Rolling Stones members who are gone are Brian Jones, who died in 1969 and Ian Stewart. Jones drowned in his swimming pool in London. Stewart was considered the sixth Rolling Stone and died from cancer. The remaining Rolling Stones are very well and alive. 
With a name based on a Muddy Waters song The Rolling Stones formed in 1962. Founding band members Brian Jones and childhood friends Mick Jagger and Keith Richards later joined by drummer Charlie Watts and bass player Bill Wyman formed the first lineup of the rock n roll history that was and still is The Rolling Stones. Mick Jagger-Vocals, Harmonica.
The band members met Brian Jones there, as he sat in playing slide guitar with Alexis Korner 's seminal London rhythm and blues band, Blues Incorporated, the band that also had future Rolling Stones members Ian Stewart and Charlie Watts. The Rolling Stones were in the vanguard of the British Invasion of bands that became popular in the US in 1964–65. At first noted for their longish hair as much as their music, the band are identified with the youthful and rebellious counterculture of the 1960s.
46 Years Ago: Rolling Stones Guitarist Brian Jones Found Dead. By Corbin Reiff July 3, 2015 4:43 AM. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. It was the news that sent shockwaves through the rock world. On July 3, 1969, former Rolling Stones guitar player Brian Jones was found dead at his home at Cotchford Farm. At the time of his passing, Jones’ life was in the midst of a severe upheaval. Days later, on July 10, 1969, Jones was laid to rest at a ceremony at Cheltenham Cemetery. Bill Wyman and Charlie Watts were the only members of the Rolling Stones in attendance.
The only Rolling Stones members who are gone are Brian Jones, who died in 1969 and Ian Stewart. Jones drowned in his swimming pool in London. Stewart was considered the sixth … Rolling Stone and died from cancer. The remaining Rolling Stones are very well and alive. The four current members of the Rolling Stones are Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Charlie Watts, and Ronnie Wood.
Lewis Brian Hopkin Jones (28 February 1942 – 3 July 1969) was the founder and original bandleader of the Rolling Stones. Jones was a multi-instrumentalist, with his main instruments being the guitar, harmonica and keyboards. 
American saxophonist Bobby Keys, who for years toured and recorded with the Rolling Stones, has died, postings on the band's Twitter account said Tuesday. He was 70. The Rolling Stones are devastated by the loss of their very dear friend and legendary saxophone player, Bobby Keys, the band said on Twitter. 
The Rolling Stones are an English rock band formed in London in 1962. The first settled line-up consisted of Brian Jones (guitar, harmonica), Ian Stewart (piano), Mick Jagger (lead vocals, harmonica), Keith Richards (guitar), Bill Wyman (bass) and Charlie Watts (drums). Stewart was removed from the official line-up in 1963 but continued as occasional pianist until his death in 1985. The Rolling Stones were in the vanguard of the British Invasion of bands that became popular in the US in 1964–65. At first noted for their longish hair as much as their music, the band are identified with the youthful and rebellious counterculture of the 1960s.
Brian Jones (left) with Mick Jagger in 1965. LONDON-British police said Monday they will review the death of Rolling Stones guitarist Brian Jones, whose 1969 drowning was ruled an accident but sparked decades of speculation that he was murdered. The Mail on Sunday reported that journalist Scott Jones — who is not related to the musician — has handed over 600 documents to Sussex police. Brian Jones, one of the founding members of the Rolling Stones, was the person who reportedly came up with the band's name.