In economics and related disciplines, a transaction cost is a cost incurred in making an economic exchange (restated: the cost of participating in a market). Transaction costs can be divided into three broad categories: 1 In game theory this is analyzed for instance in the game of chicken. 2  On asset markets and in market microstructure, the transaction cost is some function of the distance between the bid and ask.
Today, transaction cost economics is used to explain a number of different behaviours. Often this involves considering as transactions not only the obvious cases of buying and selling, but also day-to-day emotional interactions, informal gift exchanges, etc. 1 In game theory this is analyzed for instance in the game of chicken. 2  On asset markets and in market microstructure, the transaction cost is some function of the distance between the bid and ask.
1 Bargaining costs are the costs required to come to an acceptable agreement with the other party to the transaction, drawing up an appropriate contract and so on. 2  In game theory this is analyzed for instance in the game of chicken. 1 In game theory this is analyzed for instance in the game of chicken. 2  On asset markets and in market microstructure, the transaction cost is some function of the distance between the bid and ask.
The transaction cost theory supposes that companies try to minimize the costs of exchanging resources with the environment, and that companies try to minimize the bureaucratic costs of exchanges within the company. 
DEFINITION of 'Transaction Costs'. Expenses incurred when buying or selling securities. Transaction costs include brokers' commissions and spreads (the difference between the price the dealer paid for a security and the price the buyer pays). The transaction costs to buyers and sellers are the payments that banks and brokers receive for their roles in these transactions. There are also transaction costs in buying and selling real estate.
For example, the buyer of a used car faces a variety of different transaction costs. The search costs are the costs of finding a car and determining the car's condition. The bargaining costs are the costs of negotiating a price with the seller. 1 In game theory this is analyzed for instance in the game of chicken. 2  On asset markets and in market microstructure, the transaction cost is some function of the distance between the bid and ask.
Transaction cost economics suggests that the costs and difficulties associated with market transactions sometimes favor hierarchies (or in-house production) and sometimes markets as an economic governance structure. Transaction costs consist of costs incurred in searching for the best supplier/partner/customer, the cost of establishing a supposedly tamper-proof contract, and the costs of monitoring and enforcing the implementation of the contract.
Oliver Williamson is recognized for his contribution to the field of Transaction Cost Economics, building on the path-breaking work of scholars like Ronald Coase. Transaction Cost Economics is a central theory in the field of Strategy. Williamson’s contributions to the field of Transaction Cost Economics complement, and extend, those of Coase. First, Williamson started with an explicitly behavioral assumption of human behavior (bounded rationality).