Apply for benefits as soon as you are unemployed because your claim starts the week you complete the application. However, you may not apply until after your last work day. We cannot pay benefits for weeks before your claim effective date. Apply for benefits with the state where you worked during your base period. If you worked in more than one state, see If You Earned Wages in More than One State.
Before unemployment benefits can be paid to you, you must file a claim. To file your new claim or reopen an existing claim online you must meet all of the following requirements. If you do not meet the requirements you must file your claim by telephone. Please note that www.njuifile.net is used for filing a new unemployment claim, reopening a claim (excluding an extended benefits claim) or claiming weekly benefits. It cannot be used to contact the agency.
To file a new application for Ohio unemployment benefits, or to restart an existing Ohio claim, you can: 1  File online at unemployment.ohio.gov for immediate claim service 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 2  Service may be limited while the system is being updated nightly. To file a new application for Ohio unemployment benefits, or to restart an existing Ohio claim, you can: 1  File online at unemployment.ohio.gov for immediate claim service 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 2  File by telephone at 1-877-OHIOJOB (1-877-644-6562).
Your claim will begin the Sunday of the calendar week in which your application is filed. Waiting more than a week to apply will delay the start of your claim, and no benefits will be paid for weeks of unemployment that pass before the week you file. To file a new application for Ohio unemployment benefits, or to restart an existing Ohio claim, you can: 1  File online at unemployment.ohio.gov for immediate claim service 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 2  File by telephone at 1-877-OHIOJOB (1-877-644-6562).
If you are not a US Citizen. If you are not a citizen of the United States and you are filing a claim for unemployment insurance benefits, the Department of Unemployment Assistance (DUA) must verify that you are legally authorized to work in the United States. 
Apply for UI benefits. People seeking unemployment benefits can apply online, over the phone, or by mail or fax. All states require applicants to provide detailed work and personal information. Some of the data you will be asked to provide may include: 1  Full name. 2  Current address. 3  Social Security number. 
1 File online at unemployment.ohio.gov for immediate claim service 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 2  Service may be limited while the system is being updated nightly. 3  If you do not have access to a computer, visit your local library or OhioMeansJobs Center where computers are available for public use. To file a new application for Ohio unemployment benefits, or to restart an existing Ohio claim, you can: 1  File online at unemployment.ohio.gov for immediate claim service 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 2  File by telephone at 1-877-OHIOJOB (1-877-644-6562).
Promptly file your claim, in the first week that you lose your job. You must serve an unpaid “waiting period,” equal to one full week of unemployment benefits, before you receive payments. A delay in filing may cost you benefits. 
1 Information on all employers you worked for during the 18 months prior to filing your claim, including: name, period of employment, wages earned and how you were paid. 2  The name of the employer you worked for the longest within the last year and a half; and the number of years you worked for that employer. Information You Need to Apply for UI. Your time is valuable and we want the claim filing process to go as quickly as possible, so we have identified critical items you should have immediately available regardless of which option you select to file your claim.
Overview: If you're out of work, you can apply for unemployment insurance either online or at a Georgia Department of Labor Career Center. What You Should Know: 1  Online applications require you to have an email address in order to receive correspondence for the Georgia Department of Labor. 1 If you apply online, please make sure you complete the application and receive your confirmation number, to keep for your records. 2  Once you file your claim, you will be required to complete an Applicant Status Affidavit.