I was listening to Eddie Hazel's Frantic Moment from his 1977 album release of Games, Dames and Guitar Thangs and that track just BLEW me away. Parts of the songs is the music and melody from Prince's Do me baby song. Graycap23 said: Get Eddie's song and listen to it: it's note for note. WaterUdrink said: I dont know if Prince stole do me baby from Eddie Hazel, but he DEFINATELY stole it from Andre Cymone; it's his song.
Written by Robinson and fellow Miracle Pete Moore and produced by Robinson, Ooo Baby Baby was a number 4 hit on the Billboard R&B singles chart and reached number 16 on the Billboard Hot 100. Linda Ronstadt covered Ooh Baby Baby and included it on her double-platinum album Living in the USA, in 1978. Her version of the single reached number 2 on the Adult contemporary chart and peaked at number 7 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1979 (it also hit the R&B and Country singles charts).
That said, I was shocked to hear what's on a part of this song which is 95% of the musical outline for Prince's do me baby, note for note. Graycap23 said: Get Eddie's song and listen to it: it's note for note. WaterUdrink said: I dont know if Prince stole do me baby from Eddie Hazel, but he DEFINATELY stole it from Andre Cymone; it's his song.
Nelson co-wrote the first hit by the new version of the Drifters, There Goes My Baby (1959). He also sang lead, using his birth name, on Save the Last Dance for Me, a song written by Doc Pomus and Mort Shuman, Dance With Me, This Magic Moment, I Count the Tears and Lonely Winds. 
Justin co-wrote the song alongside Christopher Tricky Stewart and Terius The-Dream Nash. The duo also worked with the Canadian teen on his debut single . One Time . Ludacris and R&B singer Christina Milian also contributed to this track. Justin told Digital Spy that this is a song everyone can relate to. 
This was written by Peter Beckett and J. C. Crowley, the two founders of Player. Beckett was the lead singer and guitarist. He is originally from Liverpool, England (home of The Beatles). After the demise of Player, Beckett joined Australia's Little river Band, who included this on a live album. Beckett also wrote Twist of Fate for Olivia Newton-John and After All This Time for Kenny Rogers. According to Beckett's webmistress Patricia, he and a girlfriend of five years had broken up, and Beckett wrote the song from what he was feeling in his hear
Ooo Baby Baby  is a song written by Smokey Robinson and Pete Moore. It is a classic 1965 hit single by The Miracles for the Tamla (Motown) label. It achieved its greatest commercial success when Linda Ronstadt covered it in 1978. Linda Ronstadt covered Ooh Baby Baby and included it on her double-platinum album Living in the USA, in 1978. Her version of the single reached number 2 on the Adult contemporary chart and peaked at number 7 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1979 (it also hit the R&B and Country singles charts).
Do Me, Baby  is a Prince ballad from his 4th album, Controversy written by Prince. It was released as the third and final U.S. single from the album. With a running time of almost eight minutes, it is the longest track on the album. The single did not chart until a cover version by R&B singer Meli'sa Morgan was released as the lead single from her debut album of the same name. In 1986, Morgan's version went to number one on Billboard's R&B Singles chart, and number forty-six on the Hot 100.
Do Me, Baby is track #9 on the album The Hits 2. It was written by Nelson, Prince Rogers. Do Me, Baby is track #9 on the album The Hits 2. It was written by Nelson, Prince Rogers. 