Although the word waterboarding is of recent vintage, the practice is one of the oldest and most widely recognized forms of torture. This is its essence: a person is forcibly seized and restrained. He or she is then immobilized, face up, with the head tilted downward. Water is then poured into the breathing passages. 
n. 1. An interrogation technique, widely considered a form of torture, in which a person is restrained, usually by being strapped to a board with the feet higher than the head, and immersed in or doused with water to the point of drowning. 2
wa·ter·board·ing. n. 1. An interrogation technique, widely considered a form of torture, in which a person is restrained, usually by being strapped to a board with the feet higher than the head, and immersed in or doused with water to the point of drowning. 2. 
Waterboarding Law & Legal Definition. Waterboarding is a criminal investigation interrogation technique where bound, gagged prisoner is forced to breathe in water. The United States Central Intelligence Agency defines waterboarding as a procedure where the individual is bound to an inclined bench. Waterboarding is a form of torture whereby the individual is immobilized and water is poured over the face, simulating drowning. [Yousuf v. Samantar, 2007 U.S. Dist.
An interrogation technique simulating the experience of drowning, in which a person is strapped head downwards on a sloping board or bench with the mouth and nose covered, while large quantities of water are poured over the face. Example sentences. 
Definition of WATERBOARDING. : an interrogation technique in which water is forced into a detainee's mouth and nose so as to induce the sensation of drowning. ADVERTISEMENT. Next Word in the Dictionary: water boat Previous Word in the Dictionary: water boa All Words Near: waterboarding.
Before deciding whether to call waterboarding torture it's worth considering what the legal definition of torture is. It is not necessary to create a new legal definition since there are already numerous formally ratified definitions already in place : 
Waterboarding is a form of water torture in which water is poured over a cloth covering the face and breathing passages of an immobilized captive, causing the individual to experience the sensation of drowning. Torturers pour water onto the face over the breathing passages, causing an almost immediate gag reflex and creating a drowning sensation for the captive. Vomitus travels up the esophagus, which may then be inhaled. Victims of waterboarding are at extreme risk of sudden death due to the aspiration of vomitus.
Waterboarding consists of immobilising a supine victim on his or her back with the head lower than the feet. Water is then poured into the upper airways, triggering the dive and gag reflexes and the sensation of drowning, resulting in severe pain, dry drowning, lung damage, and hypoxic brain damage. 
Waterboarding was characterized in 2005 by former CIA director Porter J. Goss as a  professional interrogation technique . According to press accounts, a cloth or plastic wrap is placed over or in the person's mouth, and water is poured onto the person's head. Torturers pour water onto the face over the breathing passages, causing an almost immediate gag reflex and creating a drowning sensation for the captive. Vomitus travels up the esophagus, which may then be inhaled. Victims of waterboarding are at extreme risk of sudden death due to the aspiration of vomitus.