At home, you can be exposed to solvents by using cleaning products, personal care products, nail polish remover, paints, glues, adhesives, and other household products that contain solvents. They are used to dissolve grease, oil, and paint; to thin or mix pigments, paint, glue, pesticides, and epoxy resins; to clean electronics, automotive parts, tools, and engines; and to make other chemicals.
Inhalants can be categorized into four main groups. These four groups are: 1  Aerosols – These common household objects are contained in spray bottles. 2  Types of aerosols include hair spray, computer cleaning products, sprays for vegetable oil, and spray paint. 3  Gases – Types of gases may be found around the house or used in medical facilitie
Question and answer. Household cleaning products, paints, glues, and pesticides are examples of Answer common drugs. commercial drugs. nonregulated drugs. recreational drugs. Household cleaning products, paints, glues, [ and pesticides are examples of: Commercial Drugs. ].
VOCs are widely used in household and commercial products. Some cleansers, disinfectants, waxes, glues, cosmetics, dry cleaning products, paints, varnishes and preservatives include VOCs. Gasoline, kerosene and other fuels also contain VOCs. VOCs are also found in cigarette smoke and pesticides. A number of building and household materials may be sources of VOC
A) common drugs, B) commercial drug, C) nonregulated drugs, D) recreational drugs. household cleaning products, paints, glues, and pesticides are examples of: B) Commercial drugs. User: which type of drug contains substances used to help people relax or socialize? A) illicit drug, B) psychoactive drug, C) recreational drugUser: which type of psychoactive drug has harmful effects and is most likely illegal? A) over-the-counter, B) illicit drug, C)recreational drugUser: household cleaning products, paints, glues, and pesticides are examples of what type of drug?
1 Aerosols – These common household objects are contained in spray bottles. 2  Types of aerosols include hair spray, computer cleaning products, sprays for vegetable oil, and spray paint. 3  Gases – Types of gases may be found around the house or used in medical facilities. These four groups are: 1 
A) common drugs, B) commercial drug, C) nonregulated drugs, D) recreational drugsWeegy: household cleaning products, paints, glues, and pesticides are examples of: B) Commercial drugs. Expert answered|andrewpallarca|Points 21275|. Question. User: which type of drug contains substances used to help people relax or socialize? A) illicit drug, B) psychoactive drug, C) recreational drugUser: which type of psychoactive drug has harmful effects and is most likely illegal? A) over-the-counter, B) illicit drug, C)recreational drugUser: household cleaning products, paints, glues, and pesticides are examples of what type of drug?
They are used in plastics, resins, nylon, synthetic fibers, rubber, lubricants, dyes, detergents, drugs, pesticides, glues, paints, paint thinners, fingernail polish, lacquers, detergents, printing and leather tanning processes, insulation, fiberglass, food containers, carpet backing, and cleaning products. 