WEM. Abbreviation for West Edmonton Mall-the largest mall in the world filled with some of the dumbest tourists in the world. 
Wem lies nine miles to the north of Shropshire's county town of Shrewsbury and sits on the rail line between that town and Crewe in Cheshire. Wem's civil parish is named Wem Urban. A separate one in the surrounding countryside is named Wem Rural. The area now known as Wem is believed to have been settled prior to the Roman Conquest of Britain, by the Cornovii, Celtic Iron Age settlers. The town is recorded in the Domesday Book as consisting of four manors.
1 Fantasyland Hotel, located within the mall; WEM is also affiliated with a second hotel, the West Edmonton Mall Inn, located across the street from the shopping centre on 90th Avenue. 2  A Bitcoin ATM: The first mall in the world to install a Bitcoin ATM (February 26, 2014), located at Entrance 50. Professor WEM's Adventure Golf is an 18-hole miniature golf course. The miniature golf course was originally known as Pebble Beach Mini Golf, and was designed to be a mini golf version of Pebble Beach Golf Links. The course was refurbished and given the Professor WEM theme in the mid-1990s.
WEM is an Evolution, Not a Revolution. Web engagement management involves real technology evolution, but is also a strategy or a framework for how an organization brings together its resources to optimize their digital presence. It is a natural evolution for how business must be conducted in today's world.
Wem. Wem is a small market town in Shropshire, England. It is the administrative centre for the northern area committee of Shropshire Council, which has its headquarters at Edinburgh House in the centre of Wem. Wem lies nine miles to the north of Shropshire's county town of Shrewsbury and sits on the rail line between that town and Crewe in Cheshire. Wem's civil parish is named Wem Urban. A separate one in the surrounding countryside is named Wem Rural
West Edmonton Mall (WEM), located in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, is the largest shopping mall in North America and the tenth largest in the world (along with The Dubai Mall) by gross leasable area. The mall was founded by the Ghermezian brothers, who emigrated from Iran in 1959. Professor WEM's Adventure Golf is an 18-hole miniature golf course. The miniature golf course was originally known as Pebble Beach Mini Golf, and was designed to be a mini golf version of Pebble Beach Golf Links. The course was refurbished and given the Professor WEM theme in the mid-1990s.
Over time, this was corrupted to form Wem. The area now known as Wem is believed to have been settled prior to the Roman Conquest of Britain, by the Cornovii, Celtic Iron Age settlers. The town is recorded in the Domesday Book as consisting of four manors. In 1202, Wem became a market town
FILED UNDER: Web Experience. Some say WEM's the latest WCM marketing ploy. Some have never heard the phrase. We think Web Engagement Management (WEM) is an important change in the way people build and utilize web content management systems. Web engagement management involves real technology evolution, but is also a strategy or a framework for how an organization brings together its resources to optimize their digital presence. It is a natural evolution for how business must be conducted in today's world.