Transferable skills are any skills that you develop through the course of your life, from childhood and school and from one job to another. Playing team sports in school, for example, can develop interpersonal and leadership skills that can be transferred to the workplace. 
Even then, it is the soft skills underlying and supporting those hard skills that are most transferable from career arena to career arena. These soft skills are also transferable from industry to industry, or line of business to line of business that assist a Business Analyst to move to a new area with ease. For those reasons I will concentrate on the transferable soft skills. “Practice doesn’t make perfect, it makes permanent”. Many of the writers here at Bridging the Gap have written about using transferable skills to transition into a Business Analysis career. Laura Brandenburg’s theme is assisting people in starting and transitioning to Business Analysis.
Transferable skills. Once you've made the decision to make a career change, you might feel worried that you don't have the right skills or experience. However, it's really worth thinking carefully about the skills you already have, from work and your day to day life. These kinds of skills are called 'transferable skills'. We've listed a few transferable skills below, as an example, to help get you started when thinking about your own. People Skills. 1  Leadership. 2  Teamwork. 3  Communication. 4  Interpersonal skills. 5  Customer skills.
Earlier this week I addressed the question of how to determine if you are qualified for a business analyst job and noted that the most important thing you can do is understand is your transferable business analyst skills. I’ve been getting a lot of questions about how exactly to determine what your skills are. In this post, I share how to pull together relevant background material, how to create a project list of relevant BA experiences, and how to identify your business analyst skills.
Transferable skills are general skills you can use in many jobs. You gain these skills from previous jobs, projects, voluntary work, sport, your home life, hobbies, and interests. 
Basically, any talent developed and able to be used in future employment. For example, a transferable skill applied to a business could consist of parenting skills in the opening of a pre-school. I was about to make a career change and the manager at my new job wanted to know if I had any transferable skills that they could utilize. 6 people found this helpful.
Transferable skills are skills and abilities that are relevant and helpful across different areas of life: socially, professionally and at school. They are ‘portable skills’. People usually think about their transferable skills when applying for a job or when thinking about a career change. You may think it appropriate to list and give examples of transferable skills that are not included in the following list – there are literally thousands of words and phrases that can describe transferable skills and we include only some of the most common. Remember that employers will be looking at your. .
Transferable skills. Collecting evidence of your transferable skills is important in the job application process. You could have developed these skills in any area of your life; work experience, part time or holiday work, classes, coursework, projects, hobbies or sport. Transferable skills that employers and course tutors look for: 1  Communication skills – written and oral: this means the ability to get your point across to the person(s) you are talking or writing to. 2  Problem solving skills: the ability to break down a problem into small elements and to work out a solution. You also need to think about other general skills you have, such as: 1  IT skills. 2  Foreign language skills. 3  Business awareness (e.g. from work experience or the Young Enterprise Scheme). 4  Business awareness means knowing why the business exists and what needs to be done to make sure that it is successful.
It is often important that you can identify and give examples of the transferable skills that you have developed-this will go a long way to persuading prospective employers that you are right for the job. You may think it appropriate to list and give examples of transferable skills that are not included in the following list – there are literally thousands of words and phrases that can describe transferable skills and we include only some of the most common. Remember that employers will be looking at your. .
When applying for a job you should remember, however, that the type of transferable skills you highlight in a letter of application or in your CV or resume résumé should be related to the position for which you are. applying You may think it appropriate to list and give examples of transferable skills that are not included in the following list – there are literally thousands of words and phrases that can describe transferable skills and we include only some of the most common. Remember that employers will be looking at your. .