anterior-of or near the head end or toward the front plane of a body. front-relating to or located in the front; the front lines; the front porch. posterior-located at or near or behind a part or near the end of a structure.
Definition: Anterior refers to the front of the human body, when used to describe anatomy. The opposite of anterior is posterior, meaning the back of the human body. Anterior is typically used in combination with other words that describe the location of a body part.
Medical Definition of ANTERIOR. 1. : relating to or situated near or toward the head or toward the part in headless animals most nearly corresponding to the head. 2. : situated toward the front of the body: ventral—used in human anatomy because of the upright posture of humans.
1. a tooth situated at the front of the mouth. Familiarity information: ANTERIOR used as a noun is very rare. • ANTERIOR (adjective). The adjective ANTERIOR has 2 senses: 1. of or near the head end or toward the front plane of the body. 2. earlier in time. Familiarity information: ANTERIOR used as an adjective is rare.
anterior, adj 1. situated in front of. adj 2. a term used to denote the incisor and canine teeth or the forward region of the oral cavity. adj 3. the forward position.
: relating to or situated near or toward the head or toward the part in headless animals most nearly corresponding to the head. 2. : situated toward the front of the body: ventral—used in human anatomy because of the upright posture of humans. — an·te·ri·or·ly adverb.
Anterior: The front, as opposed to the posterior. The anterior surface of the heart is toward the breast bone (the sternum). For a more complete listing of terms used in medicine for spatial orientation, please see the entry to  Anatomic Orientation Terms .
Full Definition of ANTERIOR. 1. a: situated before or toward the front b: situated near or toward the head or part most nearly corresponding to a head. 2. : coming before in time or development. — an·te·ri·or·ly adverb. See anterior defined for English-language learners.