MANY EMPLOYERS PROVIDE EMPLOYEES WITH TAX-FREE education benefits. The two most common are scholarships and grants under IRC section 117 and education-assistance programs under section 127. There is, however, a third alternative: CPAs can recommend using the working condition fringe benefit of IRC section 132(d). 
Yearly tuition costs averaged more than $6,000 at four-year public schools, and over $2,000 at two-year public schools in 2010-2011; while most employers do not pay for full-time tuition on a yearly basis, even at part-time prices, the cost of tuition reimbursement per employee per year would average $2,000. Front-End Costs. The most obvious cost to employers for tuition reimbursement programs is the cost of the tuition itself. As college tuition costs rise, so does the cost to employers who offer tuition reimbursement programs to their employees.
The Advantages of Education Reimbursement for Employees. Programs such as tuition reimbursement can help your employees develop job-related skills. Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images. If you're a small business owner, your employees may have expressed an interest in having access to an education reimbursement program. With these programs, you reimburse employees for some or all costs such as tuition after they complete an employer-approved course or training program. Offering education reimbursement programs to your employees can benefit your business in a number of way
Employees who take advantage of tuition reimbursement tend to stay with the company longer. In addition to improved employee retention, the employer may have more employees who are easily promotable, saving them money on recruiting new employees. 2. Tax Breaks. Just as it sounds, tuition reimbursement is something that many employers offer as a way to pay back employees for education expenses. Those who choose to participate still have to pay out of pocket for the courses they take.
Tuition reimbursement programs – agreements in which you (the employer) agrees to finance all or part of an employee’s post-secondary education – are one type of benefit that many employers choose to provide to their staff. But whether you’re a bottom-line-obsessed number-cruncher or the owner of a casual office in which creativity is king, be sure to consider the possible benefits below before making a decision about whether or not to implement a tuition reimbursement program at your company.
Considerations. Although the cost of tuition reimbursement programs is high, so are the benefits to the employer. Tuition reimbursement programs can be a valuable recruitment tool. Generous benefits like tuition reimbursement programs also instill loyalty in employees. Front-End Costs. The most obvious cost to employers for tuition reimbursement programs is the cost of the tuition itself. As college tuition costs rise, so does the cost to employers who offer tuition reimbursement programs to their employees.
Georgetown University offers tuition benefits to eligible employees and their children through the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP). Once you meet eligiblity requirements, these benefits can be used to pay for studies at Georgetown University or at other U.S. accredited institutions of higher education. To gain eligiblity for the Tuition Assistance Program, an employee must: 1  Be a regular staff employee (including those represented by Allied International Union and the SEIU 1199), hired to work at least 36 hours per week; or. 2  Be an academic employee hired to work at least 90% time (fellows are excluded); and.
Tuition reimbursement programs aren’t for every company, but they’re definitely something to consider. With some thought and planning, financing your employees’ educations could help to take your company to the next level. Photo credits: Top © Jason Stitt / Fotolia; Middle © Dmitry Nikolaev / Fotolia; Bottom © Fotolia. But whether you’re a bottom-line-obsessed number-cruncher or the owner of a casual office in which creativity is king, be sure to consider the possible benefits below before making a decision about whether or not to implement a tuition reimbursement program at your company.
Lifestyle Benefits. Offering non-career-related education reimbursement programs to your employees can also benefit you. For instance, paying for courses that teach employees how to manage their weight or stop smoking can help them improve their physical health, meaning less time off from work due to illness. If you're a small business owner, your employees may have expressed an interest in having access to an education reimbursement program. With these programs, you reimburse employees for some or all costs such as tuition after they complete an employer-approved course or training program.