Desiccants are chemically stable or chemically inert, and a number of useful desiccants with this property have been identified and are in common use. The most common desiccant is silica, an otherwise inert, nontoxic, water-insoluble white solid. Tens of thousands of tons are produced annually for this purpose. To some extent, desiccant performance can be precisely described, but most commonly, the final choice of which desiccant best suits a given situation, how much of it to use, and in what form, is made based on testing and practical experience.
Refrigerant Dehumidifier / Desiccant with Pre-Cooling. Desiccant Dehumidifier A desiccant dehumidifier operates on a totally different principle to a refrigerant type. The main benefit of a desiccant dehumidifier is that it performs exceptionally well when used in cooler climates, or when a low dewpoint is required. As air passes through these channels, moisture is transferred between the air and the desiccant in its vapour form. The rotor is generally divided into two air zones which are separated by seals, the process sector (typically 75%), and the reactivation sector (typically 25%).
A desiccant is a hygroscopic substance that induces or sustains a state of dryness (desiccation) in its vicinity. Commonly encountered pre-packaged desiccants are solids that adsorb water. To some extent, desiccant performance can be precisely described, but most commonly, the final choice of which desiccant best suits a given situation, how much of it to use, and in what form, is made based on testing and practical experience.
Canisters are commonly filled with silica gel and other molecular sieves used as desiccant in drug containers to keep contents dry; shown here next to a U.S. quarter for size comparison. To some extent, desiccant performance can be precisely described, but most commonly, the final choice of which desiccant best suits a given situation, how much of it to use, and in what form, is made based on testing and practical experience.
In this form, it is used as a desiccant to control local humidity to avoid spoilage or degradation of some goods. Because silica gel can have added chemical indicators (see below) and adsorbs moisture very well, silica gel packets usually bear warnings for the user not to eat the contents. Silica gel is tough and hard; it is more solid than common household gels like gelatin or agar. It is a naturally occurring mineral that is purified and processed into either granular or beaded form. As a desiccant, it has an average pore size of 2.4 nanometers and has a strong affinity for water molecules.
desiccant. adj. 1. (Chemistry) desiccating or drying. n. 2. (Chemistry) a substance, such as calcium oxide, that absorbs water and is used to remove moisture; a drying agent. Noun. 1. desiccant-a substance that promotes drying (e.g., calcium oxide absorbs water and is used to remove moisture). drier, drying agent, siccative. chemical agent-an agent that produces chemical reactions.
Container Size to Desiccant Requirements Chart. Desiccant is sold in unit size bags according to Mil-D-3464E. A unit is the amount of desiccant which will adsorb at least 3 grams of moisture vapor at 20% relative humidity, and at least 6 grams of moisture vapor at 40% relative humidity at 25 C. If the container you need to protect is 950cc or less in volume, a gram-size desiccant requirement chart is available here. 
A desiccant is a substance with very hygroscopic properties, meaning it will soak up water vapor from the air surrounding it. A number of different substances are capable of doing this, but only a relative few of them are of practical use and fewer still are going to be readily available to the average person. 
Desiccants are used as a dehumidifier to control moisture in contained environments, including pharmaceuticals, medical, diagnostics, food, electronics, and optical industries. Clay Desiccant Packets are made of an aluminosilicate clay compound which is a natural mineral and is more economical than silica gel. At 20% RH, Desi Pak will adsorb 50% more moisture than required by Mil-D-3464E, where as silica gel will only adsorb 3.5% more moisture than required by Mil-D-3464E. A desiccant is a dehumidifying agent which attracts moisture from the atmosphere. It adsorbs and holds particles of water to itself. Desiccant Packets are small sachets of Desiccant clay, aimed at protecting goods from moisture. The three most common types of desiccants are clay, silica gel, and molecular sieve.
What Is A Desiccant. Desiccant Mass Silica Gel 15 grams Indicating Silica Gel 75 grams1 Montmorillonite Clay 24 grams Calcium Oxide (quicklime) 21.5 grams Calcium Sulfate (gypsum, Drierite) 60 grams Wood 43 grams1 1See desiccant descriptions for clarification. In order to maximize surface area to obtain optimal adsorption, desiccants are manufactured in granular or powder forms. This presents a problem of keeping the desiccant, which may not be safe for direct contact with food, out of the product while still allowing sufficient air flow for it to carry out its task.