Import and export trades are a very important part of the whole Fiji economy. The products that are imported here are, food, machines and some others while the main export products from this island nation are garments and sugar. Sugar industry in Fiji is a major part of the growing economy of this country. Sugar and related many foodstuff are exported from Fiji. Another important export material from Fiji is, garment. The textile industry is another important part of Fiji trade. Moreover, the fishing industry, which earns a huge amount of foreign currency for Fiji, is another very important part of Export from Fiji.
Another industry that has declined in Fiji is its textile industry due to the end of the quota system under the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (ATC) and the full integration of textiles into WTO General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs. Approximately two Fijian dollars equals one American dollar. There are a number of banks operating in the country, its most important banks being the Reserve Bank of Fiji, Colonial Fiji Ltd, Bank of Baroda and various others. 1  The Reserve Bank of Fiji is located in the capital city of Suva.
The other factors that are important in the economy of Fiji are the agricultural sectors, sugar industries and also the growing travel and tourism industries. Fiji economy is much developed in comparison with the other Pacific island economies though it is still a developing nation. Sugar and related many foodstuff are exported from Fiji. Another important export material from Fiji is, garment. The textile industry is another important part of Fiji trade. Moreover, the fishing industry, which earns a huge amount of foreign currency for Fiji, is another very important part of Export from Fiji.
Sugar, the most important agricultural product, generated almost 30 percent of Fiji's agricultural GDP in 1998, and 15 percent (through sugar processing) of its manufacturing GDP. The 364,000 tons of sugar that Fiji produced that year earned the country some US$122.9 million. Fiji-Agriculture. Photo by: kathmanduphotog. Agriculture continues to be the bedrock of the Fijian economy, accounting in 1999 for some 16 percent of its GDP and two-thirds of its 310,000-strong workforce.
This is also good for its tourism industry, since Fiji has a number of fishing programs to entertain its visitors. Because of its mineral resources, gold is another important export industry, though it is facing some problems as well. The country also has extensive mahogany timber reserves. Approximately two Fijian dollars equals one American dollar. There are a number of banks operating in the country, its most important banks being the Reserve Bank of Fiji, Colonial Fiji Ltd, Bank of Baroda and various others. 1  The Reserve Bank of Fiji is located in the capital city of Suva.
Fiji Economy. Industry. Fiji is one of the most developed of the Pacific Island economies. However, it still remains a developing country with a large subsistence agricultural sector. It relies very heavily on its sugar industry, as well as its travel and tourism and fishing industries. Sugar exporting makes up one-third of the country s industrial activity, and that, along with a growing tourism industry, are Fiji s major sources of foreign exchange. Approximately two Fijian dollars equals one American dollar. There are a number of banks operating in the country, its most important banks being the Reserve Bank of Fiji, Colonial Fiji Ltd, Bank of Baroda and various others. 1  The Reserve Bank of Fiji is located in the capital city of Suva.
Fiji has one of the most developed economies in the Pacific due to an abundance of forest, mineral, and fish resources. Today, the main sources of foreign exchange are its tourist industry and sugar exports. The country's currency is the Fijian dollar. The capital and largest city, Suva, is on Viti Levu. About three-quarters of Fijians live on Viti Levu's coasts, either in Suva or in smaller urban centres like Nadi (tourism) or Lautoka (sugar cane industry).
The 20th century brought about important economic changes in Fiji as well as the maturation of its political system. Fiji developed a major sugar industry and established productive copra milling, tourism and secondary industries. 
The main industry of Fiji is the sugar industry and this is a very popular business industry also. Apart from that there are several other business fields like the textile, food processing and some others. Tourism is another very promising industry in Fiji. Sugar and related many foodstuff are exported from Fiji. Another important export material from Fiji is, garment. The textile industry is another important part of Fiji trade. Moreover, the fishing industry, which earns a huge amount of foreign currency for Fiji, is another very important part of Export from Fiji.