Asiatic Dholes are a type of wild dog. Asiatic Dholes are large and vicious in appearance. The Asiatic Dholes are red furred and known to hunt Asian Buffalo. They range from S … iberia to India. The dhole is found in India, Myomar, Nepal and other small Southeast Asian nations.
Dholes live in packs ranging from 5 - 12. They interact with other dholes outside of their own group, but the original pack rarely exceeds 20. They are similar to the African Wild Dog in that they engage in cooperative group hunting and group care of young. Dholes are very fond of water. 
The dhole (Cuon alpinus) is a canid native to Central, South and Southeast Asia. Other English names for the species include Asiatic wild dog, Indian wild dog, whistling dog, red wolf (not to be confused with Canis rufus), red dog, and mountain wolf. During the Pleistocene, the dhole ranged throughout Asia, Europe and North America, but became restricted to its historical range 12,000–18,000 years ago. The dhole is a highly social animal, living in large clans without rigid dominance hierarchies and containing multiple breeding females. Such clans usually consist of 12 individuals, but groups of over 40 are known. It is a diurnal pack hunter which preferentially targets medium and large sized ungulates
As dholes lose places to live and reproduce, so do their prey. If there is nowhere safe to live and nothing to eat, then the dhole will slowly die out. It was estimated in 2008 that there were less than 2,500 adult dholes in the wild. Skittish, high-strung, and sensitive, dholes are tricky to breed and maintain in zoos.
The dhole has a broad skull and a short, broad muzzle. The fur on the back and flanks is reddish brown, while the neck, chest and undersides are white or lightly coloured. Size. The dhole is 90cm in length, 50cm in shoulder height and has a tail of up to 45cm. 
The dhole (pronounced dole) is also known as the Asiatic wild dog, red dog, and whistling dog. It is about the size of a German shepherd but looks more like a long-legged fox. This highly elusive and skilled jumper is classified with wolves, coyotes, jackals, and foxes in the taxonomic family Canidae. If there is nowhere safe to live and nothing to eat, then the dhole will slowly die out. It was estimated in 2008 that there were less than 2,500 adult dholes in the wild. Skittish, high-strung, and sensitive, dholes are tricky to breed and maintain in zoos.
Dholes also occur in northeast India's states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya and West Bengal and in Ladakh. They have a precarious, fragmented distribution in Himalaya and northwest India. They are occasionally reported in the Ladakh area of Kashmir, contiguous with the Tibetan highlands and China. Dholes once ranged throughout most of South, East and Southeast Asia, extending from theTien Shan and Altai Mountains and the Primorsky Krai southward through Mongolia, Korea, China, Tibet, Nepal, India, and south-eastwards into Bangladesh, Myanmar and Indochina, Thailand, Malaysia, Sumatra and Java.