Background. Anti–glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) antibody disease is a rare autoimmune disorder in which circulating antibodies are directed against an antigen normally present in the GBM and alveolar basement membrane. The target antigen is the alpha-3 chain of type IV collagen
Autoimmune disorders are conditions in which a person's immune system attacks the body's own cells, causing tissue destruction. Autoimmunity is accepted as the cause of a wide range of disorders, and it is suspected to be responsible for many more. 
Anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody disease: a rare autoimmune disorder affecting the kidney and the lung. Lahmer T, Heemann U. Anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody disease is a rare, but well characterized cause of glomerulonephritis. By definition serum anti-GBM antibody and/or a linear binding of IgG detected by direct immunofluorescence (IF) in a histological specimen of the kidney or the lung have to be detected.
1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 
Antiphospholipid (AN-te-fos-fo-LIP-id) antibody syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disorder. Autoimmune disorders occur if the body's immune system makes antibodies that attack and damage tissues or cells. Antibodies are a type of protein. They usually help defend the body against infections. When antibodies attack phospholipids, cells are damaged. This damage causes blood clots to form in the body's arteries and veins. (These are the vessels that carry blood to your heart and body.). Usually, blood clotting is a normal bodily process. Blood clots help seal small cuts or breaks on blood vessel walls.
The body's immune system produces antibodies, which are proteins that help fight infections. However, in Goodpasture's Syndrome the body makes antibodies that attack and damage the lining of your lungs and kidney. As a result, if you have this disease, you may start to experience fatigue, weakness and loss of appetite. There is a specific blood test that can show if you have harmful antibodies attacking your lungs and kidneys. A doctor can also test your blood and urine to find out if you have kidney disease. A urine test can check for the amount of protein, blood and other things to indicate kidney damage.
Goodpasture syndrome (GPS; also known as Goodpasture’s disease, antiglomerular basement antibody disease, or anti-GBM disease) is a rare autoimmune disease in which antibodies attack the basement membrane in lungs and kidneys, leading to bleeding from the lungs and kidney failure. GPS causes the abnormal production of anti-GBM antibodies, by the plasma cells of the blood. The anti-GBM antibodies attack the alveoli and glomeruli basement membranes. These antibodies bind their reactive epitopes to the basement membranes and activate the complement cascade, leading to the death of tagged cells.
Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. A special protein produced by the body’s immune system that recognizes and helps fight infectious agents and other foreign substances that invade the body. Antigen. A foreign substance that triggers the production of antibodies when it is introduced into the body. Autoimmune disease.