Blepharitis is an inflammation of the eyelids causing red, irritated, itchy eyelids and the formation of dandruff-like scales on eyelashes. It is a common eye disorder caused by either bacterial or a skin condition such as dandruff of the scalp or acne rosacea. It affects people of all ages. 
Itchy Eyelids Causes. Eyelids are extremely sensitive and are well supplied with nerves and blood vessels, so even a very light inflammation can cause itchiness. This itchiness is the body’s method of letting you know that there is something bothering the eye or eyelid. Eyelids that itch may be caused from any situation that inflames, infects or irritates the eyelid. Infections, allergies and even often shortage of sleep may cause the eyelids to become itchy.
Anything that irritates, inflames, or infects the eyelid can cause itchy eyelids. Even lack of sleep can cause your eyelids to itch. Your eyelids are very sensitive and well supplied with blood vessels and nerves, so even a slight inflammation can cause itchiness. Common causes of itchy eyelids. Itchy eyelids may be caused by several common conditions including: Blepharitis (inflammation of eyelid margin). Chalazion (inflammation of a blocked oil gland in the eyelid margin). Common cold (viral respiratory infection). Conjunctivitis (inflammation of the eye surface).
Signs of inflammation are swelling, redness, pain, warmth, and change in function. Blepharitis is an inflammation of the eyelids, causing red, irritated, itchy eyelids and the formation of dandruff-like scales on the eyelashes. It is a common eye disorder with a wide variety of causes. 
Blepharitis is a common eye condition, causing the eyelids to be reddened, itchy, and somewhat swollen and scaly-appearing at the base of the eyelashes. It is the most common cause of dry eyes. A dysfunction of the eyelid's oil glands that leads to blepharitis occurs because of a hormone imbalance. 
1. Blepharitis (Eyelid Inflammation). Blepharitis or inflammation of the eyelids is a common condition that can cause redness and swelling of the eyelids. About one in twenty eye problems seen by general practitioners consist of puffy itchy eyelids due to blepharitis. It is common in adults aged 50 and above, although it is seen at any age. The eyes are very sensitive, and swelling in any part in or around it can cause a lot of discomfort. Itchy and swollen eyelids can result from various factors and treatments may vary. Here are some reasons why people have puffy itchy eyelids and their treatment options.
Eyelid redness, Itching or burning, Puffy eyelids and Red eye (single). WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms eyelid redness, itching or burning, puffy eyelids and red eye (single) including Allergic reaction, Eye allergies, and Hay fever.
Itchy eyelids can result from any condition that irritates, inflames or infects the eyelid. Allergies, infections, and even lack of sleep can cause your eyelids to itch. Itchy eyelids are commonly associated with other symptoms like redness, swelling, a gritty feeling in the eye, irritation, lumps or bumps, increased tear production, or discharge. Allergies are the most common cause of itchy eyelids. An allergy that affects your eyelid may be local, such as an allergic reaction to eye makeup, or more generalized, such as hay fever
Eczema Is One Cause-One cause of itchy eyelids is eczema. Eczema is a fairly common skin disorder, thought to be the result of an allergy, and a disorder that can affect the skin on any part of the body. There are a number of different things which can cause itchy eyelids. Most of them are not particularly serious, and can often be treated with a mild medication.
4. Eczema. One of the common causes of puffy itchy eyelids is eczema, a skin disorder that is thought to result from an allergy, and can affect any part of the body, including the eyelids. While an outbreak may be tolerable on other parts of the body, symptoms when the eyelids are affected are often intolerable. The eyes are very sensitive, and swelling in any part in or around it can cause a lot of discomfort. Itchy and swollen eyelids can result from various factors and treatments may vary. Here are some reasons why people have puffy itchy eyelids and their treatment options.