Canine Coronavirus. Canine coronavirus (CCoV) is a highly contagious disease in dogs that causes inflammation in a dogs intestinal tract (called enteritis). The disease is spread when a healthy dog's mouth comes in contact with an infected dog's feces.
Canine coronavirus is a viral infection that normally targets young puppies. The infection causes problems with the intestinal lining. Some dogs infected by the virus will show few if any symptoms, while others may develop a severe case of it.
The primary symptom associated with canine Coronavirus is diarrhea. As with most infectious diseases, young puppies are more affected than adults. Unlike Parvovirus, vomiting is not common. The diarrhea tends to be less profuse than that associated with Parvovirus infections.
Any age dog can catch the illness, although dogs with a weakened immune system, younger dogs, or dogs that have not been vaccinated are most susceptible. Coronavirus puppies survival is dependent on early diagnosis and treatment. The virus can be a very serious problem for puppies between the age of 6 and 16 weeks.
Coronavirus (Corona, for short) is a virus causing sudden infection in puppies and dogs. It invades the rapidly growing cells of the intestinal lining resulting in nausea, lack of appetite, vomiting and diarrhea. The disease can vary from showing no signs of illness at all to severe illness.
A canine coronavirus infection (CCV) is a highly contagious intestinal disease that can be found in dogs all around the world. This particular virus is specific to dogs, both wild and domestic.
A vaccine is available to prevent canine coronavirus infection. Coronavirus vaccine is not a core vaccine, but it may sometimes be included in combination vaccines for other, more serious diseases, such as infections with canine distemper virus, canine parvovirus, and canine adenovirus type 2.
Canine Coronavirus (CCV) is the second leading viral cause of diarrhea in puppies with canine Parvovirus being the leader. Unlike Parvovirus, Coronavirus infections are not generally associated with high death rates.
Coronavirus is a viral infection of the digestive tract found usually in puppies, but also in adult dogs. It is common in unvaccinated dogs boarded in kennels. It is not typically a fatal virus. Signs & Symptoms Coronavirus. 1  Very foul smelling, watery, yellow/orange diarrhea. 2  Lethargy.