The best way to handle a student with a behavior problem is an in-class intervention. The easiest to explain and do is called a Behavior Contract. First, pick a time that you can meet with both the student and the parent (or have a meeting with the student and just call the parent later if you can't get them in).
1 Ignore the misbehavior. 2  Focus on a student with a positive behavior, “I really like the way Emma is packing away quietly.”. 3  Use humor to respond. 4  Remove the object that is distracting the student. 5  Refer to the classroom rules to identify the misbehavior. 6  Request student to stop the behavior (use minimal words). 1 Use humor to respond. 2  Remove the object that is distracting the student. 3  Refer to the classroom rules to identify the misbehavior. 4  Request student to stop the behavior (use minimal words). 5  Provide a choice for the student and then follow through (remember don’t do this angrily).
1 Remove the object that is distracting the student. 2  Refer to the classroom rules to identify the misbehavior. 3  Request student to stop the behavior (use minimal words). 4  Provide a choice for the student and then follow through (remember don’t do this angrily). 5  If appropriate provide a consequence. 1 Use humor to respond. 2  Remove the object that is distracting the student. 3  Refer to the classroom rules to identify the misbehavior. 4  Request student to stop the behavior (use minimal words). 5  Provide a choice for the student and then follow through (remember don’t do this angrily).
Even when students are at CEP, their scores on the high-stakes Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills count toward the academic ratings of their home schools. “I do everything in my power to avoid having to send anyone to CEP,” said Bertie Simmons, the principal of Furr High School on the city's east side. “I have not felt that we've had great success with students that went to CEP. Texas law requires that students be sent to disciplinary alternative programs for certain reasons — such as assault and selling or using drugs or alcohol — but gives principals discretion over less serious offenders.
Frankly if the students still act out of hand, it's a matter of discipline. Unruly students should be distanced from partners in crime. Arrange desks so that they can interact the least, are closest to you, or with students you can trust in keeping them on track when your attention is elsewhere. Take a look, some of these might work for you too! Also, here is the link to where I found them if you want to read more. http://www.smartclassroommanagement.com/2009/10/24/how-to-gain-control-of-any-classroom/. The moment you’re confronted with an out-of-control class, what works best is to slow everything way down.
Report Abuse. Do you have an easy to understand discipline policy posted in your classroom that ALL your students understand. An unruly student needs to be politely reminded to behave. If he refuses then he needs to be removed from the classroom and escorted by a staff assistant to the counselor with a referral. The easiest to explain and do is called a Behavior Contract. First, pick a time that you can meet with both the student and the parent (or have a meeting with the student and just call the parent later if you can't get them in).
1 Refer to the classroom rules to identify the misbehavior. 2  Request student to stop the behavior (use minimal words). 3  Provide a choice for the student and then follow through (remember don’t do this angrily). 4  If appropriate provide a consequence. 1 Use humor to respond. 2  Remove the object that is distracting the student. 3  Refer to the classroom rules to identify the misbehavior. 4  Request student to stop the behavior (use minimal words). 5  Provide a choice for the student and then follow through (remember don’t do this angrily).