Many a fractures in orthopedics is known by their discoverers. It is common practice to use these eponyms and they are alwyas worth remembering. As a mark of respect, the fracture names keep on passing from generation to generations. Though, fracture eponyms do not offer scientific communications, they are quite interesting.
Fibula Fracture. A acute fracture of the fibula bone in the lower leg occurs as a result of a direct trauma or impact to the leg or ankle. Stress fractures can also occur from overuse or repetitive impacts. Symptoms of fibula stress fractures tend to include a gradual build up of pain on the outside of the lower leg which eases with rest and increases with activity. It may be tender over the point of the fracture and there may be aching or throbbing pain at night. See fibula stress fracture for more detailed information.
Background. Lower leg fractures include fractures of the tibia and fibula. Of these two bones, the tibia is the only weightbearing bone. Fractures of the tibia generally are associated with fibula fracture, because the force is transmitted along the interosseous membrane to the fibula. The skin and subcutaneous tissue are very thin over the anterior and medial tibia and as a result of this, a significant number of fractures to the lower leg are open. Frequency. United States. Fractures of the tibia are the most common long bone fractures. The annual incidence of open fractures of long bones is estimated to be 11.5 per 100,000 persons, with 40% occurring in the lower limb. The most common fracture of the lower limb occurs at the tibial diaphysis
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Karatex. Confidence votes 624. The fibula is commonly known as the calf bone. It's the weight-bearing bone that extends to the ankle from the knee. It runs parallel to the tibia, which does is not weight-bearing. 
The fibula is commonly known as the calf bone. It's the weight-bearing bone that extends to the ankle from the knee. It runs parallel to the tibia, which does is not w … eight-bearing. They are the lower leg bones, usually referred to as the sural which means calf of the leg. The fibula is connected by a synovial joint to your other shin bone, the tibia. The … fibula is what makes your outer ankle bone. And the tibia makes your inner 'ankle' bone.
For the ancient jewelry type, see Fibula (brooch) . The fibula (/ˈfɪbjʉlə/) or calf bone is a leg bone located on the lateral side of the tibia, with which it is connected above and below. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the slenderest of all the long bones. 
Tibia (Shinbone) Shaft Fractures. The tibia, or shinbone, is the most common fractured long bone in your body. The long bones include the femur, humerus, tibia, and fibula. A tibial shaft fracture occurs along the length of the bone, below the knee and above the ankle. Because it typically takes a major force to break a long bone, other injuries often occur with these types of fractures.
This article reviews common stress fractures of the lower extremity, especially those involving the tibia, fibula, and metatarsal bones. Stress fractures of the upper extremity may occur in sports involving repetitive use of the arms, such as baseball or tennis. 
The common fibular nerve follows the medial border of the biceps femoris, running in a lateral and inferior direction, over the lateral head of the gastrocnemius. At this point, the nerve gives rise to two cutaneous branches, which contribute to the innervation of the skin of the leg. 