Biblical Meaning: The name Chloe is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Chloe is: Green herb. American Meaning: The name Chloe is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chloe is: Green herb. Greek Meaning: The name Chloe is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Chloe is: Green shoot. Fresh blooming. Famous bearers: The title Chloe was borne by Demeter, Greek goddess of agriculture
Notes: Chloe is a name with Greek origins. The meaning of the name Chloe is verdant and blooming. The most common alternative spelling is Khloe. Other spellings include Cloe, Chloey, Chloie, Kloey, ad Kloe. The most common in nickname for Chloe is Chlo, pronounced with a long O sound, like low. A famous Chloe is actress Chloe Sevigny.
Forms of Chloe include the French Chloe, chloé the Name, chloe chloë The, name chloie The, name cloee The, name cloei The, name Cloey The, french cloe Cloé, the name cloie And. the name khloey Chloe is very popular as a baby name for girls, and it is also viewed as rather trendy. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1980s. At the recent height of its usage in 2010, 0.600% of baby girls were given the name Chloe. Its ranking then was #9.
Chloe /chloe/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KHLOH-ee. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Chloe is  green shoot. From Khloe, originally used in the classical period to symbolize the fertility goddess Demeter in blooming and verdant glory. May be connected with Chloris. Chloe is a very popular first name for women (#1137 out of 4276, Top 27%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Chloe for girls. Chloe reached its top position of #9 in the U.S. in the year 2010, and is presently at #18. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014).
Chloe's language of origin is Old Greek, and it is used largely in the English and German languages. It is a biblical name derived literally from the word chloe which means 'young green shoot'. An older form of Chloe is Khloe (Old Greek). In Greek mythology, this was borne as an epithet by Demeter the goddess of fertility and agriculture, in reference to her recurring fertility. Chloe is very popular as a baby name for girls, and it is also viewed as rather trendy. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1980s. At the recent height of its usage in 2010, 0.600% of baby girls were given the name Chloe. Its ranking then was #9
Cloe /cloe/ [1 syll.] as a name for girls is of Greek derivation, and the name Cloe means green shoot. Cloe is a version of Chloe (Greek): from Khloe. Clow is a familiar surname. 
Chloe. An original English name which originates from the term beautiful one, pronounced Clue-ee. Mainly used in the 1940's but has become a common English name. That girl is chloe, or she is called Chloe meaning beautiful or the term of her name. 