--- quite true! and on 05/07/05 02:22: 'The correct pronunciation of Dupuytren's is a perennial problem. I am not a native speaker of French, but I have been learning the language for 42 years, have visited France several times, and lived and worked there for 6 months, so I have a fair idea of how it should sound.
Example sentences. 1  These include carpal tunnel syndrome, tennis elbow, Dupuytren's contracture, frozen shoulder, spondylosis of the neck and cramp of the hand (writer's cramp). 2  Skin defects in the palm are often left to heal by secondary intention after surgery for Dupuytren's disease, with excellent results.
Dupuytren is a French surname, and the closest approximation for the American English pronunciation is doo-pa-trens, with the accent or emphasis on the first syllable doo. Although some pronounce the name Dupuy as doo-poo-wee, this does not apply to the name Dupuytren.'.
The cause of Dupuytren's contracture, also called Dupuytren's disease, is unknown, but certain biochemical factors that affect the palm's connective tissue may be involved. Injuries and overuse of the hand do not play a role.
Symptoms of Dupuytren's Contracture. The first symptom for many patients is one or more lumps (nodules) under the skin in the palm of the hand. The lump may feel tender and sore at first, but this discomfort eventually goes away. The nodules cause tough bands of tissue to form under the skin in the palm.
And, we would not be too concerned about the pronunciation of this name were it not for the fact he was the first to describe a surgical procedure for a debilitating hand contracture deep in the fascia of the palm that reduces finger movement (1831).
Symptoms. One or both hands may be affected. The ring finger is affected most often, followed by the little, middle, and index fingers. A small, nodule or lump develops in the tissue below the skin on the palm side of the hand. Over time, it thickens into a cord-like band.
Medical Definition of DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTURE. : a condition marked by fibrosis with shortening and thickening of the palmar aponeurosis resulting in flexion contracture of the fingers into the palm of the hand.