Bran, also known as miller's bran, is the hard outer layers of cereal grain. It consists of the combined aleurone and pericarp. Rice bran is a byproduct of the rice milling process (the conversion of brown rice to white rice), and it contains various antioxidants that impart beneficial effects on human health. A major rice bran fraction contains 12%-13% oil and highly unsaponifiable components (4.3%).
Oat bran is the outer husk of the oat grain. The bran of grain is normally discarded during the milling process, which is unfortunate, since it contains the bulk of the dietary fiber of the grain, along with a large amount of useful minerals. Oat bran contains more fiber and absorbs more liquid than wheat bran. Oat bran is the cereal of choice for anyone who is overweight or suffering from high cholesterol. Oat bran is as suitable for celiacs, as are any other kind of oats.
Bran is present in and may be milled from any cereal grain, including rice, corn (maize) , wheat, oats, barley and millet. Bran should not be confused with chaff, which is coarser scaly material surrounding the grain, but not forming part of the grain itself. Rice bran is a byproduct of the rice milling process (the conversion of brown rice to white rice), and it contains various antioxidants that impart beneficial effects on human health. A major rice bran fraction contains 12%-13% oil and highly unsaponifiable components (4.3%).
WHEAT BRAN Overview Information. Wheat is a plant. The outer shell of the grain (the bran) is used to make medicine. Wheat bran is used as a source of dietary fiber for preventing colon diseases (including cancer), stomach cancer, breast cancer, gallbladder disease, hemorrhoids and hiatal hernia. It is also used for treating constipation, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), high cholesterol, high blood pressure, and type 2 diabetes. 
Definition: In the culinary arts, bran refers to the hard, outer layer of whole cereal grains such as oats, wheat, rice and others. Bran is high in nutrients and dietary fiber. Bran is separated from the grain during the milling process. 
Bran is the outer layer of grains, like wheat. Wheat bran is extremely high in fiber and can be blended into a banana-orange or other fruit smoothie. Bran is high in fiber, healthy fats, vitamins, minerals, and protein. A healthy green breakfast smoothie may feature bran in addition to kale and other nutritious green vegetables. Dog foods often contain corn and wheat particulates. Corn on the cob can provide bran.
Bran is the outer layer of nearly any cereal grain, including rice, oats, wheat, and corn. Basically any “whole grain” has this layer, but most processed or refined grains don’t. It tends to be somewhat rough and often has a dry, nutty flavor; manufacturers often remove it to get a more streamlined, softer taste. Bran is high in fiber, healthy fats, vitamins, minerals, and protein. A healthy green breakfast smoothie may feature bran in addition to kale and other nutritious green vegetables. Dog foods often contain corn and wheat particulates. Corn on the cob can provide bran.