Pennsylvania residents are the only out-of-state residents exempt from New Jersey withholdings. As a result of the Reciprocal Income Tax Agreement between New Jersey and Pennsylvania, compensation earned in New Jersey by a Pennsylvania resident is not subject to New Jersey Gross Income Tax. If you employ a Pennsylvania resident in New Jersey, that employee should complete an Employee's Certificate of Non-residence in New Jersey (Form NJ-165) and file it with you. Once an employee has provided you with a completed Certificate of Non-residence you must stop withholding New Jersey income tax.
As a New Jersey employer, you are required to withhold New Jersey income tax from wages paid to all New Jersey residents unless you are withholding another jurisdiction's income tax at a rate equal to or greater than New Jersey's rate. If you employ a Pennsylvania resident in New Jersey, that employee should complete an Employee's Certificate of Non-residence in New Jersey (Form NJ-165) and file it with you. Once an employee has provided you with a completed Certificate of Non-residence you must stop withholding New Jersey income tax.
General Withholding Requirement: New Jersey gross income tax generally must be withheld from wages paid to resident employees for services performed either within or without the state and from wages paid to nonresident employees for services performed in the state. However, when resident employees perform all their services outside the state, their wages are subject to New Jersey withholding only to the extent the New Jersey tax exceeds the other state's withholding tax on the same wages.
Employee compensation, including salaries, wages, tips, fees, commissions and bonuses are subject to New Jersey gross income tax withholding. In most cases, compensation that is considered wages for Federal income tax purposes is subject to New Jersey withholding. There are, however, benefits which are not subject to Federal withholding that are subject to withholding in New Jersey. If you employ a Pennsylvania resident in New Jersey, that employee should complete an Employee's Certificate of Non-residence in New Jersey (Form NJ-165) and file it with you. Once an employee has provided you with a completed Certificate of Non-residence you must stop withholding New Jersey income tax.
Click on your state on the map for general information about its income tax withholding requirements. The states that are unshaded are the states that do not impose a personal income tax. For the states imposing a personal income tax, the information includes: 1  a general statement about your obligation to withhold the state's tax from wages you pay to resident and nonresident employees.
Pennsylvania law requires the withholding of Pennsylvania personal income tax from compensation of resident employees for services performed either within or outside Pennsylvania, and from wages of nonresident employees for services performed within Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania has reciprocal agreements with six states: Indiana, Maryland, Ohio, New Jersey, Virginia, and West Virginia. Unless your employee is a resident of one of these states, you should withhold Pennsylvania personal income tax.
1 Out-of-state employers who are not incorporated or licensed under New York State law and do not maintain an office or transact business in New York State are not required to withhold New York State, New York City, or Yonkers income taxes on employees who reside in New York State. If you are an employer as described in federal Publication 15, Circular E, Employer's Tax Guide, and you maintain an office or transact business within New York State, whether or not a paying agency is maintained within the state, you must withhold personal income tax.
Employee Withholding Exemption Forms: New Jersey Form NJ-W4 may be completed by each employee, to determine the appropriate level of state income tax to withhold from earnings, or the federal form can be substituted for state purposes. However, when resident employees perform all their services outside the state, their wages are subject to New Jersey withholding only to the extent the New Jersey tax exceeds the other state's withholding tax on the same wages.
1 If an out-of-state employer agrees to withhold New York State, New York City, or Yonkers income taxes for the convenience of the employee, then the employer is subject to New York State withholding requirements. If you are an employer as described in federal Publication 15, Circular E, Employer's Tax Guide, and you maintain an office or transact business within New York State, whether or not a paying agency is maintained within the state, you must withhold personal income tax.