Enter Order Number and Destination Zip Code. To track your package, your must have your order number and destination zip code ready. You will also need to know your destination country and a range of shipping date within 6 months. Order Number: If you placed order on-line, your order number is the 6 digits order number you received in your e-mail.
1 On the Add/Edit/Delete Tracking Number page, enter the tracking or Delivery Confirmation number. 2  If eBay can determine the carrier you're using, such as USPS or UPS, we'll pre-fill that information in the Carrier box. 3  Otherwise, enter the name of your carrier. 
Track Your UPS Package By Your Order Number. This order tracker will only track UPS shipments. If your order was shipped using USPS, please visit USPS.com and enter in the tracking number e-mailed to you. Order Number: If you placed order on-line, your order number is the 6 digits order number you received in your e-mail.
To check the status of your package, please click on the link and it will take you to UPS, FedEx or other shipping vendor website. This function allows you to track your package using the tracking code provided in the email. You can also track your order in “My Orders”: 1  1. Sign into your account and click “My Orders”. 2  2. 3  Click on the order you want to track. 4  3. Click on the tracking link located next to the tracking number.
1 Click Track Package next to your order (if shipped separately). 2  If your package or tracking information is missing, go to: About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered About Missing Tracking Information. 3  About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered. 4  About Missing Tracking Information. 1 Go to the order you want to track. 2  Click Track Package next to your order (if shipped separately). 3  If your package or tracking information is missing, go to: About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered About Missing Tracking Information. 4  About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered
We're always working to improve our tracking. Here are some of the ways we're making package tracking better. 1  View End-to-End tracking with up to 11 scan events on shipments-from pick up to final delivery-with more frequent updates. 2  Receive Text alerts to get status updates sent right to your phone.
To track your package: 1  Go to Your Orders. 2  Go to the order you want to track. 3  Click Track Package next to your order (if shipped separately). 4  About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered. 5  About Missing Tracking Information. 1 Go to the order you want to track. 2  Click Track Package next to your order (if shipped separately). 3  If your package or tracking information is missing, go to: About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered About Missing Tracking Information. 4  About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered
Track by Tracking/Reference Number. Enter any combination of up to 30 FedEx tracking, or door tag numbers (one per line). You can also track FedEx Office orders by entering order numbers. Track by any reference number related to your package or freight shipment, in addition to purchase order number. 
1 Go to Your Orders. 2  Go to the order you want to track. 3  Click Track Package next to your order (if shipped separately). 4  If your package or tracking information is missing, go to: About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered About Missing Tracking Information. 1 Go to the order you want to track. 2  Click Track Package next to your order (if shipped separately). 3  If your package or tracking information is missing, go to: About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered About Missing Tracking Information. 4  About Missing Packages That Show as Delivered