On the inside of the upper body are the heart for pumping blood and the lungs for breathing. The rear side of the upper body is called the back, inside which the spine connects the upper body to the lower body. Upper Limbs (arms). The arms are attached to the shoulders. Beneath this area is called the armpit or underarm. The upper arms have the muscles known as triceps and biceps. At the top and front of the upper body, just below the neck is the collar bone. On the front side of the upper body is the chest, which in women includes the breasts. Babies suck on the nipples of their mother's breasts. Beneath the ribcage are the stomach and the waist.
arm. 1. the part of the upper limb from the shoulder to the elbow; called also brachium. 2. in common usage, the entire upper limb. 3. a slender part or extension that projects from a main structure. chromosome arm. (1) Brachium. The part of the upper extremity from the shoulder to the elbow. (2) A part of the appendicular skeleton which includes the free part of the upper extremity (pars libera membri superioris [TA]) from the humerus to the finger tips.
In human anatomy, the arm is the upper limb of the body, comprising regions between the glenohumeral joint (shoulder joint) and the elbow joint. In common usage the arm extends to the hand. It can be divided into the upper arm (brachium), the forearm (ante brachium), and the hand (manus). Anatomically the shoulder girdle with bones and corresponding muscles is by definition a part of the arm. The Latin term brachium may refer to both the arm as a whole or to the upper arm on its own.
Two other muscles are considered to be partially in the arm: 1  The large deltoid muscle is considered to have part of its body in the anterior compartment. 2  This muscle is the main abductor muscle of the upper limb and extends over the shoulder. It can be divided into the upper arm (brachium), the forearm (ante brachium), and the hand (manus). Anatomically the shoulder girdle with bones and corresponding muscles is by definition a part of the arm. The Latin term brachium may refer to both the arm as a whole or to the upper arm on its own.
In anatomical terms, the word arm refers to the part of the upper limb between the shoulder and the elbow. The term forearm describes the part of the upper limb between the elbow and the wrist. In a more common use, the term arm refers to the whole upper limb, with the terms upper arm and lower arm describing the two parts. In this section we will use the more common definition of arm to mean the whole upper limb.
Your thoracic spine—the upper back or mid-back region—is the most stable part of your spine. It is very stiff, and the thoracic spine has a limited range of motion. It is like that for several reasons, all of which you can understand by looking at the anatomy of the thoracic spine. 
arm. 1. the limb segment between the shoulder and elbow joints; sometimes called the upper arm as distinct from the lower arm which is the section from elbow to carpus. 2. loosely, the free part of the thoracic limb, especially of bipeds. (1) Brachium. The part of the upper extremity from the shoulder to the elbow. (2) A part of the appendicular skeleton which includes the free part of the upper extremity (pars libera membri superioris [TA]) from the humerus to the finger tips.