Dependent personality disorder is characterized by a pervasive psychological dependence on another person or people to meet emotional or physical needs. Persons with a dependent personality have low self-esteem and feel inadequate and helpless. 
Dependent Personality Disorder (also known as DPD or asthenic personality disorder) is characterized by a long-standing need to be cared for-and fear of being abandoned by-important individuals. Symptoms of Dependent Personality Disorder: Symptoms are similar to those of other personality disorders and may include: 1  Unstable relationships. 2  Trouble making/keeping friends. 3  Unstable mood and/or angry outbursts.
People with DPD become emotionally dependent on other people and spend great effort trying to please others. People with DPD tend to display needy, passive, and clinging behavior, and have a fear of separation. Other common characteristics of this personality disorder include: 1  Inability to make decisions, even everyday decisions like what to wear, without the advice and reassurance of others. A diagnosis of DPD must be distinguished from borderline personality disorder, as the two share common symptoms. In borderline personality disorder, the person responds to fears of abandonment with feelings of rage and emptiness.
Dependent personality disorder is characterized by a pervasive fear that leads to “clinging behavior” and usually manifests itself by early adulthood. It includes a majority of the following symptoms: 1  Has difficulty making everyday decisions without an excessive amount of advice and reassurance from others. Like most personality disorders, dependent personality disorder typically will decrease in intensity with age, with many people experiencing few of the most extreme symptoms by the time they are in the 40s or 50s.
Dependent personality disorder is characterized by pervasive passive reliance on other people to make one's major and minor life decisions, great fear of abandonment, feelings of helplessness and incompetence, passive compliance with the wishes of elders and others, and a weak response to the demands of daily life. Like all personality disorders, Dependent Personality Disorder is a deeply ingrained and enduring behaviour pattern, manifesting as an inflexible response to a broad range of personal and social situations.
The difference between a 'dependent personality' and a 'dependent personality disorder' is somewhat subjective, which makes diagnosis sensitive to cultural influences such as gender role expectations. Includes: asthenic, inadequate, passive, and self-defeating personality (disorder). Dependent personality disorder (DPD), formerly known as asthenic personality disorder, is a personality disorder that is characterized by a pervasive psychological dependence on other people.
Individuals with Dependent Personality Disorder are often characterized by pessimism and self-doubt, tend to belittle their abilities and assets, and may constantly refer to themselves as “stupid.” They take criticism and disapproval as proof of their worthlessness and lose faith in themselves. Like most personality disorders, dependent personality disorder typically will decrease in intensity with age, with many people experiencing few of the most extreme symptoms by the time they are in the 40s or 50s.
Personality disorders such as dependent personality disorder are typically diagnosed by a trained mental health professional, such as a psychologist or psychiatrist. Family physicians and general practitioners are generally not trained or well-equipped to make this type of psychological diagnosis. Like most personality disorders, dependent personality disorder typically will decrease in intensity with age, with many people experiencing few of the most extreme symptoms by the time they are in the 40s or 50s.
Dependent personality disorder (DPD) is an anxious personality disorder characterized by the inability to be alone. People with dependent personality disorder rely on other people for comfort, reassurance, advice, and support. Although people who don’t have the condition sometimes have these feelings, people with DPD cannot function unless they get reassurance from others. Signs of dependent personality disorder include: 1  submissive behavior. 2  relying on friends or family for decision making. 3  needing reassurance repeatedly. 4  being hurt easily by disapproval. 5  feeling isolated and nervous when alone. 6  fear of rejection. 7  sensitivity to criticism.