PaperStone ® weighs 1.8 pounds per square foot per ¼” in thickness. For example, a 30” x 8’ panel that is ¾” thick weighs 108 pounds and a 30” x 12’ panel that is 1 ¼” thick weighs 270 pounds. The pallet and packaging will add additional weight. Smaller panels, weighing less than 80 pounds, may be shipped via UPS.
Cost of Paperstone Countertops. Don’t let your remodeling budget go over-board by hidden surprises – understand what the average installed costs for Paperstone Countertops is in your zip code by using our handy calculator.
Drivers are not allowed to help. PaperStone ® weighs 1.8 pounds per square foot per ¼” in thickness. For example, a 30” x 8’ panel that is ¾” thick weighs 108 pounds and a 30” x 12’ panel that is 1 ¼” thick weighs 270 pounds. The pallet and packaging will add additional weight. Smaller panels, weighing less than 80 pounds, may be shipped via UPS.
The Paperstone Countertops calculator will provide you with up to date pricing for your area. Simply enter your zip code and the square footage, next click update and you will see a breakdown on what it should cost to have Paperstone Countertops installed onto your home. Example: a 10 x 10 area = 100 square feet.
PaperStone’s estimated weight is 1.8 pounds per square foot per .25 inch of thickness. Among the colors in which PaperStone is available are slate, cabernet, chocolate, denim, evergreen, gunmetal, leather, mocha and a few others.
If you’re looking for 2015 breakdown for Cost of Paperstone Countertops materials and what installation cost might be, you’ve come to the right place. As an experienced licensed home improvement contractor, I know first hand what it should cost for various levels — from Basic, Better, and of course the best.
1 The homewyse Paperstone Countertop cost estimates do not include costs for out of area shipping or backsplash. 2  The homewyse cost estimates include all typical costs for sink cutout, deck mounted fixture cutouts and standard edge fabrication.
PaperStone estimates may include labor costs. If the consumer is simply buying the product and intends to go elsewhere for installation or self-install, the materials cost will contribute to a smaller initial estimate.