If you fail to appear as ordered by the court, a warrant may be issued for your arrest. Additionally, other actions may also take place as a result of your failure to appear or comply with a court order: 1  The ordering and issuance of a warrant for your arrest or the holding of the warrant until a future hearing date. 
1 This means that a warrant for your arrest will be outstanding. 2  If you are pulled over, the police officer may arrest you and take you to jail and from there, to appear before the Court; or. 3  Addition of a civil assessment of $300 to your fine and referral of the matter to the court's collection vendor. Even if you did not receive the court's courtesy notice, you are responsible for appearing by that date. If you fail to appear by the date on your ticket, by an extension date you were granted, or a date you were scheduled to appear in court, the court will take several actions.
Any court can issue a FTA (Failure to Appear) charge or arrest warrant against you if you fail to appear in court for your court date, or if you fail to pay a speeding ticket fine. Many courts will issue an FTA (Failure to Appear) charge after you miss your first court date, but if you miss court a second time, the court will issue an arrest warrant and will set a bond, which is an amount of money that you have to pay to the court to get your warrant cancelled and to get a new court date.
If a juror is late the juror will receive a failure to appear summons to appear for jury duty on a different day in 60  90 days. Jurors should plan to arrive in the garage at least 30 minutes prior to check-in time. If you ARE selected to serve on a jury for a trial, your service is complete at the conclusion of the trial. The average trial lasts for three to five days. Some of the municipal courts and justice of the peace courts use a pooling system. This means you are on call by the court for a period of time (4 to 8 weeks).
Please call (800) 927-0644. Missing a court date is not like missing any other appointment. If you are facing criminal charges of failure to appear, you need an aggressive and determined defense attorney on your side. If you miss a criminal court date, you are considered a fugitive, in most cases, and a bench warrant will be issued for your arrest. A failure to appear in court is that serious. But there are usually options to fix this problem. If you missed your court date for a legitimate reason, or by mistake, or even out of a moment of panic, we can help. But it is critical that we do so right away. 
To request a postponement follow the instructions in the Juror Affidavit Questionnaire or Summons or contact the court in which you are scheduled to appear. Inconvenience to a prospective trial juror or an employer is not a legal reason to be excused from jury service. Since the only evidence you can consider is that presented in court, you are not allowed to make an independent investigation or visit any of the places involved in the case. If it is necessary for the jury to visit a site, the judge will so order and send the jury as a group to see it. CONTROL YOUR EMOTIONS.
In addition to your failure to appear charge, your bail will be forfeited if you were out on bond at the time of your failure to appear. This simply means that the money you posted for your release will be lost to you. Facing additional charges is probably not what you had in mind when you missed your court date. Call us today to discuss your failure to appear case. If you have a warrant we can help you decide on the next move and get you in a place where you can make things right again.
1 If you failed to appear at the district court at the date, time, and location provided on the summons for arraignment that the court sent to you, the court likely entered a default against you and issued a warrant for your arrest. 2  This means that there may be an outstanding warrant for your arrest. 1 If you believe that you do not qualify for jury duty, you should bring proof of your disqualification with you to the court when requesting a removal of the default and recall of the warrant. 2  You should also send a copy of your proof of disqualification to the Office of Jury Commissioner.
If you served on a jury panel for a trial, you are exempt from serving for two years. If it has been more than 18 months (or two years) since your last service, you are required to appear for jury service again, regardless of how many times you have served in the past. If you ARE selected to serve on a jury for a trial, your service is complete at the conclusion of the trial. The average trial lasts for three to five days. Some of the municipal courts and justice of the peace courts use a pooling system. This means you are on call by the court for a period of time (4 to 8 weeks).
Continue reading to find out what happens if you ignore a jury summons. Failure to Appear for Jury Duty Cases. One person not likely to ignore another jury summons is Jermaine Dupri, CEO of So So Def Recordings. Dupri recently served a three-day jail sentence in Fayetteville, Georgia for missing jury duty in March 1999. Consequences of Ignoring a Jury Summons. Ignore a jury summons in Phoenix, Arizona, and a sheriff's deputy just might show up at your door. In many jurisdictions, bench warrants are issued for those failing to appear, which could lead to arrests during routine traffic stops.