CSF/S glu = 0.4. Pathophysiology or physiopathology is a convergence of pathology with physiology. Pathology is the medical discipline that describes conditions typically observed during a disease state, whereas physiology is the biological discipline that describes processes or mechanisms operating within an organism. Pathology describes the abnormal or undesired condition, whereupon pathophysiology seeks to explain the physiological processes or mechanisms whereby such condition develops and progresses. Pathophysiology can also mean the functional changes associated with or resulting from disease or injury. Another definition is the functional changes that accompany a particular disease
Pathophysiology: Deranged function in an individual or an organ due to a disease. For example, a pathophysiologic alteration is a change in function as distinguished from a structural defect. 
Medical Definition of PATHOPHYSIOLOGY. : the physiology of abnormal states; specifically: the functional changes that accompany a particular syndrome or disease. — patho·phys·i·o·log·i·cal \-ē-ə-ˈlaej-ˈläj-i\ kəl or·patho·phys·i·o·log \-ic\ ik. — adjective·patho·phys·i·ol·o \-gist-ē-ˈael-ˈäl\ ə. jəst noun : the physiology of abnormal states; specifically: the functional changes that accompany a particular syndrome or disease. — patho·phys·i·o·log·i·cal \-ē-ə-ˈlaej-ˈläj-i\ kəl or·patho·phys·i·o·log \-ic\ ik. adjective
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Pathophysiology is the study of the disturbance of normal mechanical, physical, and biochemical functions, either caused by a disease, or resulting from a disease or abnormal syndrome, or condition that may not qualify to be called a disease. For example, the pathophysiology of diabetes (type I) is a failure of the islet cells in the pancreas to produce insulin, leading to increased blood sugar and ketoacidosis.
The pathophysiology of a disease is the mechanism of what's causing it. For example, the pathophysiology of diabetes (type I) is a failure of the islet cells in the pancreas to produce insulin, leading to increased blood sugar and ketoacidosis.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Pathophysiology is the study of functional changes in the body that occur in response to disease or injury. For example, if someone ingests a toxin, that toxin might be associated with a variety of physical changes, such as inflammation in the stomach lining or necrosis of the extremities. A radiologist, for example, often becomes quite adept at identifying the structural changes associated with cancer as a result of viewing hundreds or thousands of films. There are two separate medical fields involved in pathophysiology. The first is physiology, the study of the body and its functions.
Pathophysiology. Pathophysiology is a convergence of pathology with physiology. Pathology is the medical discipline that describes conditions typically observed during a disease state, whereas physiology is the biological discipline that describes processes or mechanisms operating within an organism. 
Etymology: Gk, pathos, disease, physis, nature, logos, science. the study of the biologic and physical manifestations of disease as they correlate with the underlying abnormalities and physiologic disturbances. Pathophysiology does not deal directly with the treatment of disease. Rather, it explains the processes within the body that result in the signs and symptoms of a disease. 
The disordered physiological processes associated with disease or injury: intracranial hypertension contributes to the pathophysiology of this condition. More example sentences. 1  Perhaps the inflammation and pathophysiology are different between the sheep and mice. 