Another concern is the use of artificial insemination when one of the two dogs is vicious and constantly attacks the other one. We will not even help out in these cases, and it is not because we are afraid of getting bitten. Behavior is a trait that we should select for just as we do intelligence and conformation. Only during the 3 to 7 days of Estrus will the bitch be in the proper stage to become pregnant. After 3 to 7 days, she moves into the Metestrous stage, is no longer fertile, and will not accept a male's advances. 'Problem breeders'. Sometimes artificial insemination is used even though both dogs are present.
The consultation was around $300 but my insurance treated it like a Dr.'s visit and I only had to pay a co-pay. We just did our first insemination 2 days ago and that cost $240. So, it's about $500 - $600 each time you try. It has been a wonderful experience already and I can't wait to take my first pregnancy test. We also did a photomatch where the cryobank compared and found the best matches for my partners physical features. This will depend on what bull are going to use for the insemination, usually dairy bulls are more than beef bulls and the cost for older or very good bulls will be more for th … e younger bulls. However, the average bull is about 40 dollars per tube.
Vaginal, Transervical and surgical implant.. Also there are several methods of getting and using semen. fresh, fresh chilled extended, frozen.. But generally to collect the semen for fresh chilled,about 100-300, Shipping overnight anywhere from $75-$200.. Propper timing is vital for sucess in AI,, so vaginal smears at the minimum, along with behavior.. Progesterone blood levels.. a must.. progesterone testing cost on average, 40-80 a test, and you will need at least 3-4 levels checked..
1 Sperm washing, which is always necessary for IUI, can cost about $100. 2  IUI is the more commonly used type of artificial insemination, because it has a higher success rate than placing sperm in the cervix. 3  Ultrasounds, which are almost always used to monitor progress, cost up to $300 each. 1 For patients covered by insurance, it is common to pay out-of-pocket costs of copays from $10 to $30 for each visit. 2  Some plans only cover a percentage of the cost of treatment -- usually 50 to 80 percent.
1 IUI is the more commonly used type of artificial insemination, because it has a higher success rate than placing sperm in the cervix. 2  Ultrasounds, which are almost always used to monitor progress, cost up to $300 each. 1 For patients covered by insurance, it is common to pay out-of-pocket costs of copays from $10 to $30 for each visit. 2  Some plans only cover a percentage of the cost of treatment -- usually 50 to 80 percent.
Average Cost. The average cost of artificial insemination will be anywhere between $300 and $500. This is what you will pay each and every time that you decide to go through with this process. This price can add up really fast. Depending on the type of artificial insemination you are having completed, you could find that the clinic will also charge you to wash the sperm. This can cost you anywhere between $100 and $200 each vial.
Oh wait you weren't going for a puppy you need a dog in the next 3 weeks...well then it would be very costly to buy a breeding dog that is already tested. Artificial insemination will cost you whatever the owner of the stud charges...which could be a few hundred dollars or in the low thousands. And then a few hundred to get it implanted into your female. 
Then the cost of the actuall regular vaginal AI at the vet, expect at least the cost of a office visit,, if you are thinking about other methods, transcervical or surgical AI,, cost for that can be any where from $200-$1000.. Propper timing is vital for sucess in AI,, so vaginal smears at the minimum, along with behavior.. Progesterone blood levels.. a must.. progesterone testing cost on average, 40-80 a test, and you will need at least 3-4 levels checked..
1 Artificial insemination typically costs between $300 and $500 per attempt. 2  The typical success rate is 10 to 20 percent, so five to ten attempts could be required. 3  However, success can vary widely by individual, age and cause of infertility; some patients never achieve a pregnancy through artificial insemination. 1 For patients covered by insurance, it is common to pay out-of-pocket costs of copays from $10 to $30 for each visit. 2  Some plans only cover a percentage of the cost of treatment -- usually 50 to 80 percent.
but it would be not unreasonable to expect additional cost of at least $200 to do a AI, more expsive if the semen is shipped, and more expensive the distance and if other methods are used.. For the person who asked why someone would do that when LOCAL boys are avalible, and cheaper.. Propper timing is vital for sucess in AI,, so vaginal smears at the minimum, along with behavior.. Progesterone blood levels.. a must.. progesterone testing cost on average, 40-80 a test, and you will need at least 3-4 levels checked..