The ionic form of this reaction is: 2 Na + (aq) + 2 Cl - (aq) + Cu 2+ (aq) + SO 4 2- (aq) → 2 Na + (aq) + SO 4 2- (aq) + CuCl 2 (s). The sodium ions and sulfate ion are the spectator ions in this reaction. They appear unchanged in both the product and reactant side of the equation. These ions just 'spectate' while the other ions form the copper chloride.
(December 2009). A spectator ion is an ion that exists as a reactant and a product in a chemical equation. Spectator Ion can, for be observed in the reaction of aqueous solutions of sodium carbonate and copper(II) sulfate but does not affect the equilibrium:
Spectator Ion Definition: A spectator ion is an ion that exists in the same form on both the reactant and product sides of a chemical reaction.
A spectator ion is an ion that exists as a reactant and a product in a chemical equation. Spectator Ion can, for be observed in the reaction of aqueous solutions of sodium carbonate and copper(II) sulfate but does not affect the equilibrium:
In ionic equations the spectator ions are the ions that do not form a solute in the reactants side. They will have the symbol aq (for aqueous or in water)after it showing that … is has not precipitated into a solid. Answered.
We call the cations and anions listed below spectator ions because they do not react with water. When soluble compounds containing one of these spectator ions dissolves in water we can ignore the spectator ion. Soluble compounds of two spectator ions have no direct effect on the pH of water.
Spectator Ions. We also have the potential to have some ions in solution that do not participate in the chemistry. This is because these ions are the conjugate pairs for the strong acids or strong bases. Since those reactions are assumed to go 100% in the forward direction, we can likewise assume they go backwards 0%.
The Na + and SO 4 2− ions are spectator ions since they remain unchanged on both sides of the equation. They simply watch the other ions react, hence the name. They are present in total ionic equations to balance the charges of the ions. Whereas the Cu 2+ and CO 3 2− ions combine to form a precipitate of solid CuCO 3.