CaraMunich Malt I is a crystal malt. It will provide a sweet malty flavor and aroma to your beer. What it is: CaraMunich Malt I is a barley malt that is typically black, or 34 Lovibond, in color. It is produced by maltsters from green malt with a three-phase process: stewing to convert the starches into sugars, drying the grains, and roasting to achieve the desired color. This process makes use of the Maillard reaction, which generates desired colors and flavors but makes the sugars unfermentable. Dosage: CaraMunich Malt I can be 1-5 percent of your grist. Of course, the actual amount you need depends on the style of beer that you are making. Use our brewing calculators to compute the exact amount you need to achieve your specific original gravity and color targets.
Caramalts are Crystal malts, but they are not equivalent. Hell, not even American and British Crystal malts are exactly the same, even if the package says the same Lovibond rating-the flavors are just different. So Caramunich and Crystal 40L are not equivalent. Frankly, I haven't the foggiest notion how maltsters produce Caravienne and Caramunich. I was always under the impression Vienna and Munich malts were pale malts processed differently during kilning. At the same time, I was under the impression Caramalts of all types are made from green malt.
1. CaraMunich is made by caramelizing Munich malt. I've heard a couple people say that CaraVienna or CaraMunich are very different from standard caramel/crystal malts (e.g., Crystal 60) because they are made from Vienna and Munich malt, rather than pale malt. In fact, all of these malts start as green malt (barley that has been soaked and sprouted, but not yet dried).
Vienna malt is kiln dried at a higher temperature than pale malt yet still retains sufficient enzyme power for use as 60 to 100% of total mash grist. Vienna is a rich, aromatic malt that will lend a deep color and full flavor to your finest Vienna or Marzen beers. Caramel 40 is a mainstay malt in brewing of all types of ales. It can be used in British and American ales, and in conjunction with other malts in Belgian ales and German lagers. Hugh Baird Maltings in Witham, Essex, England make very fine high grade caramel malts.
Wheat Malt (Malted Wheat). Use to make wheat and weizen beers. Also, small amounts (3-6 %) aid in head retention to any beer without altering final flavor. Use 5 to 70 % in the mash, 40 to 70 % being the norm for wheat beers, combined with a high enzyme malt such as Klages. Caramel 40 is a mainstay malt in brewing of all types of ales. It can be used in British and American ales, and in conjunction with other malts in Belgian ales and German lagers. Hugh Baird Maltings in Witham, Essex, England make very fine high grade caramel malts.
Pale Crystal (Caramel Malt) 40 L. As with all Crystal malts, the character of this malt is contributed by unfermentable crystallized sugars produced by a special process Called stewing. 5 to 20 % Pale Crystal will lend a balance of light caramel color, flavor, and body to Ales and Lagers. Caramel 40 is a mainstay malt in brewing of all types of ales. It can be used in British and American ales, and in conjunction with other malts in Belgian ales and German lagers. Hugh Baird Maltings in Witham, Essex, England make very fine high grade caramel malts.
The cara in CaraMunich indicates that it's a crystal malt. It's essentially mashed in the husk, then kilned to produce sugar and a glassy kernel, like other crystal malts. Munich malt does not go through that process. It's a relatively dark kilned malt than can be used as a base malt. Their flavors and uses are very different. Munich can be combined with other base malts or used as 100% of your grist if you like. CaraMunich, on the other hand, has a much sweeter flavor and should always be used as a character malt in relatively small quantities (generally less that 10%) of your total grist. share | improve this answer
Likes Given: 3. Munich is a base malt and caramunich is a kilned Munich. Because its kilned and lays flat as opposed to being roasted in a drum and turned like crystal grains, its essentially munich on one half, and crystal 120 on the other. 
Carapils® Malt (Dextrine). Briess Carapils® Malt is produced exclusively from North American, AMBA-approved 2-row malting barley from a proprietary process. It is the top performing malt in the dextrine-malt category. It consistently increases foam, improves head retention and enhances mouthfeel without adding flavor or color to your beer. 