Visa requirements for United States citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of the United States. In 2015, holders of a United States passport could visit 172 countries and territories visa-free or with visa on arrival, and the United States passport was ranked 2nd (tied with Finland and Sweden) in terms of travel freedom according to the Visa Restrictions Index. Contents.
You may need a national visa to visit non-Schengen countries. Border officials in EU countries may ask for other supporting documents such as an invitation letter, proof of lodging, return or round-trip ticket. For the precise requirements contact the local consular services of the EU country in question. There are a number of countries whose nationals do not need a visa to visit the EU for three months or less. and possibly a visa. Apply for a visa from the consulate or embassy of the country you are visiting. If your visa is from a  Schengen area  country, it automatically allows you to travel to the other Schengen countries as well.
Confidence votes 64. There are 39 countries whose nationals do not need a visa to visit the EU for three months or less. These include Australia, Canada, and the United States. If your trip is over three months in length, you must procure a visa from that country's consulate or embassy. 
Non-Schengen Region Countries. Several countries do not require visas for American citizens planning a visit of 90 days or less. However, stringent passport requirements may apply. For example, Ukraine requires the passports of American visitors to be valid for at least six months beyond the point of entry. Individuals from other countries may need a visa to enter the Schengen region, depending on their country of citizenship. A Schengen visa for a visit of up to 90 days allows visitors to travel freely throughout the Schengen region for leisure or business.
The following countries provide visa on arrival to the citizens of the European Union. Some of these countries may be available for visa free access to some (*) or all other EU nationals (**) – for details see above. Some countries may not provide visa on arrival facilities at all entry points. Additionally exclusion of several countries from the visa waiver of Canada and the United States hinders a possible reciprocity, even though their citizens have visa-free access to all EU member states.
If you are a US citizen with a US passport traveling to the Schengen countries for tourism or business, you will not need a visa as long as you spend 90 days or less in these countries. Under this agreement, you can enter the Schengen area as long as your stay does not exceed 90 days within a 6 month period. 
Visa requirements for European Union citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of the European Union. They differ among countries. The European Union has achieved full reciprocity with certain countries. Additionally exclusion of several countries from the visa waiver of Canada and the United States hinders a possible reciprocity, even though their citizens have visa-free access to all EU member states.
The Schengen Region. The Schengen region is comprised of 24 European countries, which allow free movement of citizens and properly-documented visitors within its borders. Citizens of the United States do not need a visa for a visit of up to 90 days for leisure, tourism or business. Individuals from other countries may need a visa to enter the Schengen region, depending on their country of citizenship. A Schengen visa for a visit of up to 90 days allows visitors to travel freely throughout the Schengen region for leisure
Holders of passports who do not require a visa to enter Spain. 1. The European Union, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland. • New residency requirements for EU citizens planning to live in Spain for more than three months. 