Your bone marrow is responsible for producing red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (cells responsible for clotting). Hemolytic anemia is a condition that involves only the red blood cells. When old red blood cells die, the bone marrow produces new ones to maintain balance. Hemolytic anemia occurs when red blood cells die sooner than the bone marrow can produce them. The scientific term for red blood cell destruction is hemolysis. 
Hemolytic anemia is a disorder in which the red blood cells are destroyed faster than the bone marrow can produce them. The term for destruction of red blood cells is hemolysis. There are two types of hemolytic anemia, intrinsic and extrinsic: The destruction of the red blood cells is due to a defect within the red blood cells themselves. Intrinsic hemolytic anemias are often inherited, such as sickle cell anemia and thalassemia. These conditions produce red blood cells that do not live as long as normal red blood cells.
Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (or autoimmune haemolytic anaemia; AIHA) occurs when antibodies directed against the person's own red blood cells (RBCs) cause them to burst (lyse), leading to insufficient plasma concentration. 
Hemolytic anemia (HEE-moh-lit-ick uh-NEE-me-uh) is a condition in which red blood cells are destroyed and removed from the bloodstream before their normal lifespan is over. Red blood cells are disc-shaped and look like doughnuts without holes in the center. Hemolytic anemia is a type of anemia. The term anemia usually refers to a condition in which the blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells.
Hemolytic anemia. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Hemolytic anemia is a form of anemia due to hemolysis, the abnormal breakdown of red blood cells (RBCs), either in the blood vessels (intravascular hemolysis) or elsewhere in the human body (extravascular). It has numerous possible causes, ranging from relatively harmless to life-threatening. 
Haemolytic anaemia is brought on by the accelerated damage of red blood cells, which is when they are broken up before completion of their 120 day lifespan. When red blood cells become damaged this in turn means that the body is unable to produce a sufficient amount to substitute those destroyed. Haemoglobin is a protein rich in iron and responsible for carrying oxygen around the body. It also gives red blood cells their colour. Anaemia is a common condition and is brought on when the body carries an insufficient quantity of red blood cells or deficient haemoglobin.
Hemolytic anemia occurs when the bone marrow is unable to replace the red blood cells that are being destroyed. Immune hemolytic anemia occurs when the immune system mistakenly sees your own red blood cells as foreign substances. Antibodies then develop against the red blood cells. Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. Normally, red blood cells last for about 120 days in the body. In hemolytic anemia, red blood cells in the blood are destroyed earlier than normal.
Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. Normally, red blood cells last for about 120 days before the body gets rid of them. In hemolytic anemia, red blood cells in the blood are destroyed earlier than normal. Hemolytic anemia occurs when the bone marrow is unable to replace the red blood cells that are being destroyed. Immune hemolytic anemia occurs when the immune system mistakenly sees your own red blood cells as foreign substances. Antibodies then develop against the red blood cells.
Red blood cells have a normal life span of approximately 90-120 days, at which time the old cells are destroyed and replaced by the body's natural processes. Hemolytic anemia is a disorder in which the red blood cells are destroyed prematurely. The cells are broken down at a faster rate than the bone marrow can produce new cells. Hemoglobin, the component of red blood cells that carries oxygen, is released when these cells are destroyed. 