Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease. It is spread by the bite of an insect called a sandfly. Leishmaniasis is sometimes called kala-azar. There are two main forms of the disease. Each is associated with different species of the parasite. Cutaneous leishmaniasis affects the skin. Visceral leishmaniasis damages the internal organs.
Leishmaniasis (/ˌliːʃməˈnaɪəsɪs/) or leishmaniosis (/liːʃˌmeɪnɪˈoʊsɪs/ or /liːʃˌmaenɪˈoʊsɪs/) liːʃˌmænɪˈoʊsɪs is a disease caused by protozoan parasites of the Genus leishmania and spread by the bite of certain types of. sandflies Leishmaniasis is transmitted by the bite of infected female phlebotomine sandflies which can transmit the infection Leishmania. The sandflies inject the infective stage, metacyclic promastigotes, during blood meals (1) .
Cutaneous leishmaniasis causes large, sometimes painful sores near the site of the bite. Visceral leishmaniasis, also called kala-azar, proves a more serious infection. Patients experience fever, enlarged spleen, enlarged liver, weight loss and low blood-cell counts. Sandflies are most active from dusk to dawn. Caused by the Borrelia burgdorferi bacterium, Lyme disease is transmitted by the bite of certain species of ticks. The bacterium, normally found in mice, squirrels and other small mammals, does not harm these animals—or the deer the ticks feed on—but causes potentially serious disease when transmitted to people.
This is a sand fly, an insect which spreads leishmaniasis. No human would be inclined to think favorably of leishmaniasis, caused by a parasite spread by sand flies, which infects about 12 million people worldwide and kills 20,000 to 30,000 per year. 
People cannot get leishmaniasis directly from other people. Instead, the disease spreads through the bite of blood-sucking sand flies. A fly bites an infected animal or person and takes in the parasite with its meal of blood. * parasites (PAIR-uh-sites) are organisms such as protozoa (one-celled animals), worms, or insects that must live on or inside a human or other organism to survive. An animal or plant harboring a parasite is called its host. Parasites live at the expense of the host and may cause illness.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease caused by a protozoan that initially lives in the sand fly and is transmitted to people through sand fly bites. The organism develops and multiplies in the gut of the fly and is introduced into the bloodstream of humans after a bite. 
Leishmaniasis (/ˌliːʃməˈnaɪəsɪs/) or leishmaniosis (/liːʃˌmeɪnɪˈoʊsɪs/ or /liːʃˌmaenɪˈoʊsɪs/) liːʃˌmænɪˈoʊsɪs is a disease caused by protozoan parasites of the Genus leishmania and spread by the bite of certain types of. Sandflies the disease can present in three main: ways, cutaneous, mucocutaneous or visceral. leishmaniasis Leishmaniasis is transmitted by the bite of infected female phlebotomine sandflies which can transmit the infection Leishmania. The sandflies inject the infective stage, metacyclic promastigotes, during blood meals (1) .
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease that is found in parts of the tropics, subtropics, and southern Europe. Leishmaniasis is caused by infection with Leishmania parasites, which are spread by the bite of infected sand flies. There are several different forms of leishmaniasis in people. In the Old World (the Eastern Hemisphere) , leishmaniasis is found in some parts of Asia, the Middle East, Africa (particularly in the tropical region and North Africa, with some cases elsewhere), and southern Europe. It is not found in Australia or the Pacific Islands.
The disease occurs when a person becomes infected with any of several types of Leishmania parasites * . They spread to people through the bite of female sand flies and can cause different forms of illness, all of which are called leishmaniasis. * parasites (PAIR-uh-sites) are organisms such as protozoa (one-celled animals), worms, or insects that must live on or inside a human or other organism to survive. An animal or plant harboring a parasite is called its host. Parasites live at the expense of the host and may cause illness.
Leishmaniasis is a disease that is spread by female phlebotomine sand flies. It is caused by a number of different species of the Leishmania parasite. There are three types of leishmaniasis: cutaneous leishmaniasis, mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (also called mucosal leishmaniasis) and visceral leishmaniasis (also called kala-azar). Cutaneous leishmaniasis, which affects the skin, is the most common type of leishmaniasis.