A drainage basin or catchment basin is an extent or an area of land where surface water from rain, melting snow, or ice converges to a single point at a lower elevation, usually the exit of the basin, where the waters join another waterbody, such as a river, lake, reservoir, estuary, wetland, sea, or ocean. For example, a tributary stream of a brook that joins a small river is tributary of a larger river, which is thus part of a series of successively smaller area but higher elevation drainage basins. Similarly, the Missouri and Ohio rivers are each part of their own drainage basins and that of the Mississippi River.
Newfoundland is triangular in shape, about 320 miles across, and occupies an area of 43,000 square miles. It is thus about the size of Pennsylvania, and is much larger than Ireland. It lies on the continental shelf of North America, being separated from Labrador by only 11 miles, and from Cape Breton by 70 miles. 
The land formed by silt deposited at the mouth of a river is called a delta (named for the Greek letter, which is similarly triangular in shape). Delta 1. Flood plain 2. Levee … s 3. Ox-bow lake 4. Delta. Answered. 
Amazon River, Peru and Brazil. The Amazon River is the world's second longest river (the Nile River in Africa is the longest). It runs for about 3,900 miles (6,275 kilometers) from the Andes Mountains in northern Peru to the Atlantic Ocean near Belem, Brazil. The sides of the channel are known as the stream's banks. The bottom is the stream bed. A stream's velocity, or speed, determines its ability to erode, transport, and deposit sediment. Sediment is rock debris such as clay, silt, sand, gravel, or even larger material.
North America covers about 24,249,000 square kilometres, or about a sixth of the world's land area. The continent is roughly triangular in shape. The Arctic, Atlantic, and Pacific oceans border the three sides. 
The Amazon basin (the area drained by the Amazon River) is the largest river basin in the world. It covers an area of about 2,500,000 square miles (6,475,000 square kilometers), or almost 35 percent of the land area of South America. The sides of the channel are known as the stream's banks. The bottom is the stream bed. A stream's velocity, or speed, determines its ability to erode, transport, and deposit sediment. Sediment is rock debris such as clay, silt, sand, gravel, or even larger material.
A large bend in a river is called a. A is an area of land roughly triangular in shape which forms where a river enters a lake or the sea. *BONUS: Water flows from an area of elevation to an area of elevation. Name As soon as rain falls on high ground it starts to flow downhill. The water finds the easiest way it can to the sea. The picture shows the course of a river from the hills to the sea.
delta. a roughly triangular area of land formed at the mouth of a river which reaches the sea in two or more branches. the delta of the Nile. del·ta. A usually triangular mass of sediment, especially silt and sand, deposited at the mouth of a river. Deltas form when a river flows into a body of standing water, such as a sea or lake. Flat, alluvial land at a river mouth where it splits into many streams called distributaries
a roughly triangular area of land formed at the mouth of a river which reaches the sea in two or more branches. the delta of the Nile. 1. delta-a low triangular area of alluvial deposits where a river divides before entering a larger body of water; the Mississippi River delta; the Nile delta. alluvial deposit, alluvial sediment, alluvium, alluvion-clay or silt or gravel carried by rushing streams and deposited where the stream slows down.