The Early Years. Mao Zedong (1893-1976) was both a product and a part of the revolutionary change in 20th-century China. He was born December 26, 1893, in the small village of Shaoshan in Hunan province. 
During the early 1960s, Mao became concerned with the nature of post-1959 China. He saw that the revolution and Great Leap Forward had replaced the old elite with a new one. He was concerned that those in power were becoming estranged from the people they were supposed to serve. From the next generation, Zemin's son, Mao Yuanxin, was raised by Mao Zedong's family. He became Mao Zedong's liaison with the Politburo in 1975. In Li Zhisui's The Private Life of Chairman Mao, Mao Yuanxin played a role in the final power-struggles.
Mao Zedong, 1957 © Mao was a Chinese communist leader and founder of the People's Republic of China. He was responsible for the disastrous policies of the 'Great Leap Forward' and the 'Cultural Revolution'. Mao was born on 26 December 1893 into a peasant family in Shaoshan, in Hunan province, central China. After training as a teacher, he travelled to Beijing where he worked in the University Library.
“In his address, Hu recalled Mao’s achievements, and summarized the outstanding contributions made to the revolution and the development of China by the Chinese communists with Mao as their top representative, who have developed Mao Zedong Thought, namely, Marxism with Chinese characteristics. It’s the most wonderful day of the year…if you’re a fan of British holidays with obscure and poorly understood origins or an unreconstructed Chinese Leftist. December 26 is the birthday of Mao Zedong, the portly gentleman from Hunan who, for 70% better and 30% ill, led China from 1949 until his death in 1976.
After Mao Zedong won the Chinese civil war in 1949, his goal became the unification of the five nationalities under the big family, the People's Republic of China, and under a single political system, the Communist Party of China. From the next generation, Zemin's son, Mao Yuanxin, was raised by Mao Zedong's family. He became Mao Zedong's liaison with the Politburo in 1975. In Li Zhisui's The Private Life of Chairman Mao, Mao Yuanxin played a role in the final power-struggles.
When this photograph of Mao addressing his followers was taken in 1944, he was the leader of the Chinese Communist Party. Mao had organized and trained a peasant army to resist the Japanese occupation of China during World War II. Background. Mao Zedong was born in China's Hunan province in 1893. At that time, the Chinese people were unhappy with the Qin dynasty. They felt that foreign nations had too much control over China's resources. Mao later said that it seemed to be a time when “the dismemberment of China” would happen quickly
In late autumn 1958, Mao Zedong strongly condemned widespread practices of the Great Leap Forward (GLF) such as subjecting peasants to exhausting labour without adequate food and rest, which had resulted in epidemics, starvation and deaths. From the next generation, Zemin's son, Mao Yuanxin, was raised by Mao Zedong's family. He became Mao Zedong's liaison with the Politburo in 1975. In Li Zhisui's The Private Life of Chairman Mao, Mao Yuanxin played a role in the final power-struggles.
Mao's Early Life: On December 26, 1893, a son was born to the Mao family, wealthy farmers in Shaoshan, Hunan Province, China. They named the boy Mao Zedong. The child studied Confucian classics at the village school for five years, but left at the age of 13 to help out full-time on the farm. Shortly after Mao took power in China, he sent the People's Volunteer Army in to the Korean War to fight alongside the North Koreans against the South Koreans and United Nations forces.
or. (mou dzŭ-do͝ong) , 1893–1976, founder of the People's Republic of China. Mao was one of the most prominent Communist theoreticians and his ideas on revolutionary struggle and guerrilla warfare have been extremely influential, especially among Third World revolutionaries. 