Flu vaccines are routinely available for seasonal influenza, but these vaccines are not likely to be protective against flu caused by the H1N1 (formerly termed swine flu) virus. There is a separate vaccine against the H1N1 flu. There are two types of seasonal flu vaccines, the injection (with killed virus) and nasal spray vaccines (containing live but weakened virus). The vaccine is generally effective against the influenza virus within two weeks of administration. The vaccine is termed an attenuated vaccine because the viruses are weakened so that they do not cause severe flu symptoms. The nasal spray flu vaccine (LAIV) has been approved by the FDA for use in nonpregnant healthy people between two and 49 years of age.
During this time, flu viruses are circulating at higher levels in the U.S. population. An annual seasonal flu vaccine (either the flu shot or the nasal spray flu vaccine) is the best way to reduce the chances that you will get seasonal flu and spread it to others. When more people get vaccinated against the flu, less flu can spread through that community. The nasal spray: The viruses in the nasal spray vaccine are weakened and do not cause severe symptoms often associated with influenza illness. In children, side effects from the nasal spray may include: 1  Runny nose. 2  Wheezing. 3  Headache.
The seasonal flu vaccine protects against the influenza viruses that research indicates will be most common during the upcoming season. Traditional flu vaccines (called “trivalent” vaccines) are made to protect against three flu viruses; an influenza A (H1N1) virus, an influenza A (H3N2) virus, and an influenza B virus. The nasal spray: The viruses in the nasal spray vaccine are weakened and do not cause severe symptoms often associated with influenza illness. In children, side effects from the nasal spray may include: 1  Runny nose. 2  Wheezing. 3  Headache.
The injection (flu shot) vaccine. Flu vaccine is an inactivated vaccine, meaning that it contains killed influenza virus. The killed influenza virus is injected into muscles and stimulates the immune system to produce an immune response (antibodies) to the influenza virus. The vaccine is termed an attenuated vaccine because the viruses are weakened so that they do not cause severe flu symptoms. The nasal spray flu vaccine (LAIV) has been approved by the FDA for use in nonpregnant healthy people between two and 49 years of age.
The vaccine is only effective against the strains of the virus that match the vaccine. These strains vary from flu season to flu season each year. This is the reason that revaccination is required annually with the vaccine that matches the strains of influenza that are currently prevalent. The vaccine is termed an attenuated vaccine because the viruses are weakened so that they do not cause severe flu symptoms. The nasal spray flu vaccine (LAIV) has been approved by the FDA for use in nonpregnant healthy people between two and 49 years of age.
Like all vaccines, the flu vaccine only gives a temporary immunity to the virus strains or closely related virus strains contained in the vaccine. The only way to get natural and permanent immunity to a strain of flu is to recover naturally from the flu. 
The influenza vaccine, also known as flu shot, is an annual vaccination using a vaccine that is specific for a given year to protect against the highly variable influenza virus. The flu vaccine can also reduce the severity of the flu if a person contracts a strain of the flu that the vaccine did not contain. It takes about two weeks following vaccination for antibodies to protect against the flu.
You cannot get the flu from a flu shot. The risk of a flu shot causing serious harm or death is extremely small. However, a vaccine, like any medicine, may rarely cause serious problems, such as severe allergic reactions. Almost all people who get influenza vaccine have no serious problems from it. 1 There are many different influenza viruses that circulate every year. 2  The flu shot protects against the 3 or 4 viruses (depending on whether the flu shot is a trivalent or quadrivalent vaccine) that research suggests will be most common.
1 There are two types of flu vaccines, the injection (killed virus) and nasal spray vaccines (containing live but weakened virus). 2  Each year, the influenza virus can change slightly, making the vaccine used in previous years ineffective. Many people worry about side effects from the flu shot, but serious complications are rare. Some people believe that they can actually get the flu from receiving the shot, but this is not the case. For the majority of people, the risks of developing the flu are far greater than any risks associated with the vaccine.
The nasal spray vaccine contains a live attenuated flu virus, but the virus is weakened so that it cannot cause the flu. The viruses in the nasal spray can't replicate in the warm temperatures of the lungs and other parts in the body. Trivalent flu vaccines protect against two influenza A strains, H1N1 and H3N2, and one influenza B strain. Quadrivalent flu vaccines — offered for the first time in the 2013-2014 flu season — protect against the same strains as the trivalent vaccine, as well as an extra influenza B virus.