1 Place the ribs on a cookie sheet and cover them with foil. 2  Leave the ribs out for one hour until they reach room temperature. 3  Preheat the oven to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (121 degrees Celsius). 4  Place the racks in the oven and bake the ribs for between 2 and 2½hours, or until they're tender. 1 Leave the ribs out for one hour until they reach room temperature. 2  Preheat the oven to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (121 degrees Celsius). 3  Place the racks in the oven and bake the ribs for between 2 and 2½hours, or until they're tender. 4  Remove the ribs from the oven and uncover them
When the ribs are fork tender, all you need to do is remove them from the foil (save those juices for stock or soup later!) and put them on a baking tray. If your ribs are about 3 lbs, they’ll take about 3 hours 15 minutes and a 4 lb rack will take closer to 4 1/2 hours. Roughly speaking, they need to have at least 1 hour in the oven per pound, with about 15 – 30 minutes extra to make sure they’re super tender.
Whisk all ingredients together until well combined. In a large baking dish, pour marinade over ribs and refrigerate, basting occasionally, for a minimum of 2 hours, but preferably overnight. Preheat oven to 300°. Cover baking dish with aluminum foil and cook ribs for 2 hours. Increase the oven temperature to 350°. Remove the aluminum foil and baste ribs with barbecue sauce. Continue cooking for 45 minutes, basting with sauce every 15 minutes. 
Best Answer: Rib tips have a lot of cartilage, so they need to be cooked slowly. Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Season the rib tips with salt, pepper, garlic powder, and paprika. Place them in a baking pan and cover the pan tightly with foil. When the oven reaches 275, put the rib tips in the oven. Set the timer for 60 minutes. When the meat has cooked for an hour, pour the barbecue sauce into a small bowl. Remove the pan from the oven and increase the heat to 350. Dip the rib tips, one at a time, into the sauce
Broil the ribs for about 5 minutes, until the sugar in the dry rub is bubbling and the ribs are evenly browned. Bake the ribs: Set the oven to 300°F. Move the ribs to an oven rack in the middle of the oven. Roast for 2 1/2 to 3 hours for spare ribs or 1 1/2 to 2 hours for baby back ribs. Halfway through cooking, cover the ribs with aluminum foil to protect them from drying out.
1 Cover the baking dish with foil and place on center rack of pre-heated oven. 2  Bake for approximately 2 1/2 - 3 hours (depending on the size of the ribs you are using). 3  Remove the ribs from oven and drain any grease from dish; reserving the foil for later use (waste not, want not). 1 Remove the ribs from oven and drain any grease from dish; reserving the foil for later use (waste not, want not). 2  Flip the ribs over (meaty side up) and slather with your favorite BBQ sauce and return the dish to the oven (un-covered) for an additional 30 minutes.
The trick to great ribs is to cook them very slowly with the BBQ sauce on them. You can do this in an oven, just set the temperature to 225° F (about 107° C). I occasionally use an electric smoker, which cooks at about 200 to 225 degrees Fahrenheit. I've also used this method on my gas grill and in my oven. Cook the ribs for 4½ to 5 hours. 
Sear the rib roast (prime rib) for 15 minutes at the higher oven temperature (450 degrees F.), then turn the oven to the lower temperature (325 degrees F.) for the rest of the cooking time. Every 1/2 hour, baste the cut ends of the roast with the fat accumulated in the roasting pan. Do Not Cover the roast. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the rib roast will continue to cook as it sets. The internal temperature will rise to 125 degrees F. to 130 degrees F. (medium rare) in approximately 15 to 20 minutes. If allowed to rest as long as an hour, the internal temperature will rise even higher.