Knowledge center. Avocados are a creamy, buttery fruit grown in warm climates and often enjoyed in Mexican and South American cuisine. Also known as an alligator pear or butter fruit, the versatile avocado is the only fruit that provides a substantial amount of monounsaturated fat (the healthy kind). Avocados are a naturally nutrient-dense food and contain nearly 20 vitamins and minerals. 
The avocado (Persea americana) is a tree native to Mexico and Central America, classified in the flowering plant family Lauraceae along with cinnamon, camphor and bay laurel. Avocado or alligator pear also refers to the fruit, botanically a large berry that contains a single seed. Mexico produces most of the world's avocado, and avocado is one of the primary cultivars for export, the eighth cultivar by production volume. In 2013 the total area dedicated to avocado production was 168,155 hectares (415,520 acres), and the harvest was of 1,109,814 tonnes.
1 Recent research on avocado and heart disease risk has revealed some important health benefits that may be unique to this food. 2  Avocado's reputation as a high-fat food is entirely accurate. 3  Our 1-cup website serving provides 22 grams of fat, and those 22 grams account for 82% of avocado's total calories. Mexico is an especially large exporter of avocado into the U.S., with about 500,000 metric tons of avocado being sent from Mexico to the U.S. each year. About 200,000 tons of avocado are produced in the state of California each year, and another 35,000 tons in the state of Florida.
Although they are fruits, avocados have a high fat content of between 71 to 88% of their total calories—about 20 times the average for other fruits. A typical avocado contains 30 grams of fat, but 20 of these fat grams are health-promoting monounsaturated fats, especially oleic acid. Mexico is an especially large exporter of avocado into the U.S., with about 500,000 metric tons of avocado being sent from Mexico to the U.S. each year. About 200,000 tons of avocado are produced in the state of California each year, and another 35,000 tons in the state of Florida.
Avocado oil. Avocado oil is an edible oil pressed from the fruit of the Persea americana (avocado). As a food oil, it is used as an ingredient in other dishes, and as a cooking oil. It is also used for lubrication and in cosmetics, where it is valued for its supposed regenerative and moisturizing properties
Avocado is a tree. The fruit, a popular food, is a good source of potassium and vitamin D. The fruit, leaves, and seeds are used to make medicine. Avocado fruit is used to lower cholesterol levels, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate menstrual flow. Some of the oils in avocado (chemists call these oils the “unsaponifiable fractions”) are used to treat osteoarthritis. The seeds, leaves, and bark are used for dysentery and diarrhea.
Avocado health benefits make a persuasive case for why you should be eating more avocados today. A commercially valuable fruit, the avocado is cultivated mainly in tropical climates; sometimes, more temperate climates like those found in California are a suitable growing environment for this fruit. People have discovered that avocados don't just taste great (in the right manner of preparation), but they also come with a decent amount of health benefits. Not all fat is bad for your body, and monounsaturated fat in particular is what constitutes the first health benefit of an avocado.
Nutrient All-Star. Avocados offer nearly 20 vitamins and minerals in every serving, including potassium (which helps control blood pressure), lutein (which is good for your eyes), and folate (which is crucial for cell repair and during pregnancy). The Skinny on the Fat and Calories. Avocados are high in fat. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories