The splenius capitis (/ˈspliːni.əs ˈkaepɨtɨs/) (ˈkæpɨtɨs From greek, splenion spléníon, meaning Bandage and, latin caput) meaning head is, a broad straplike muscle in the back of. the neck The splenius capitis is deep to sternocleidomastoideus at the mastoid process, and to the trapezius for its lower portion. It is one of the muscles that forms the floor of the posterior triangle of the neck. The splenius capitis muscle is innervated by the posterior ramus of spinal nerves C3 and C4.
Splenius. The splenius muscle of the head and the splenius muscle of the neck work together so that the neck and the head can extend (tilt backward) and rotate. The splenius muscle of the head, also known as the splenius capitis, is a broad muscle located at the back of the neck. It is attached to the base of the skull. The splenius muscle of the neck, also known as the splenius cervicis, is a smaller muscle that is positioned slightly below the splenius capitis. Damage or injury to either splenius muscle can cause neck pain, headaches, facial pain, or shoulder pain.
The splenius capitis (/ˈspliːni.əs ˈkaepɨtɨs/) (ˈkæpɨtɨs From greek, splenion spléníon, meaning Bandage and, latin caput) meaning head is, a broad straplike muscle in the back of. The neck it pulls on the base of the skull from the vertebrae in the neck and. upper thorax The splenius capitis is deep to sternocleidomastoideus at the mastoid process, and to the trapezius for its lower portion. It is one of the muscles that forms the floor of the posterior triangle of the neck. The splenius capitis muscle is innervated by the posterior ramus of spinal nerves C3 and C4.
Medical Definition of SPLENIUS. : either of two flat oblique muscles on each side of the back of the neck and upper thoracic region: a: splenius capitis b: splenius cervicis.
The splenius muscle is a superficial (top layer) muscle found on each side of the neck. It attaches the cervical (neck) and thoracic (upper back) vertebrae to the skull (mastoid process of temporal bone). Activities that cause splenius muscle pain and symptoms in the horse: 1  A rider who constantly pulls or balances on the reins (lesson horse, rental horse). 2  A horse whose discipline requires collection and flexion of the head/neck (dressage, race horses).
• SPLENIUS (noun). The noun SPLENIUS has 1 sense: 1. either of two flat muscles that extend from the upper vertebrae to the base of the skull and serve to rotate or flex or extend the head and neck. Familiarity information: SPLENIUS used as a noun is very rare. Either of two flat muscles that extend from the upper vertebrae to the base of the skull and serve to rotate or flex or extend the head and neck. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts.