The basic unit of Chinese currency is the yuan (元 /ywen/), spoken colloquially as kuai (块 /kwhy/). There are 10 jiao (角 /jyaoww/), known colloquially as mao (毛 /maoww/), to the yuan. The fen (分 /fnn/), 1/100th of a yuan, is so seldom used now that fen coins and notes are almost out of circulation. 
The Chinese currency is the renminbi (RéNMíNBì), rmb ‘or’people s’. Money the basic unit OF rmb is the (yuan; ¥), yuán 元 which is divided into (10), jiǎo 角 which is again divided into (10). Fēn, 分 colloquially the yuan yuán is referred to as kuai kuài (and). Jiǎo as mao máo 毛 the fēn has so little value these days. that it is rarely used The Chinese currency is the renminbi (RéNMíNBì), rmb ‘or’people s’. Money the basic unit OF rmb is the (yuan; ¥), yuán 元 which is divided into (10), jiǎo 角 which is again divided into (10). fēn 分
Renminbi: Chinese Currency is called Renminbi (RMB or CNY) means People's Currency in Chinese language. Unit: Yuan, Jiao (some times called Mao ) and Fen. 1 Yuan = 10 Jiao (Mao); 1 Jiao = 10 Fen. RENMINBI, YUAN The renminbi (literally people's currency) is the legal tender in the mainland of the People's Republic of China. It is issued by the People's Bank of China (PBOC, central bank). The official abbreviation is CNY, although also commonly abbreviated as RMB.
The yuan (/juːˈɑːn/ or /ˈjuːən/ ; sign : ¥ ; Chinese: 元; pinyin: yuan; [yuán]. ) ɥɛ̌n is the base unit of a number of former and-present Day chinese, currencies and usually refers to the primary unit of account of the, renminbi the currency of The'people S republic Of. china When used in English in the context of the modern foreign exchange market, the Chinese yuan (CNY) refers to the renminbi (RMB) which is the official currency used in mainland China.
Chinese Currency – Renminbi (RMB). Chinese yuan, also known as Renminbi, is used throughout in mainland China, while in Hong Kong and Macau, Hong Kong dollar and pataca are respectively used. The basic unit of Renminbi is Yuan and the sign of Yuan is ￥. In some parts of China, yuan is called kuai and jiao is referred as mao. Chinese money is issued by the People's Bank of China in denominations of one, two, five, ten, twenty, fifty, and one hundred yuan. The jiao and fen coins are both issued in ones, twos, and fives.
The name (simplified Chinese: 人民币; traditional Chinese: 人民幣; pinyin: renminbi) rénmínbì literally means'people s.. Currency the (yuan/元) (圆 : ¥) sign is the basic unit of the, renminbi but is also used to refer to The chinese currency, generally especially in international. contexts In Chinese texts the currency may also be indicated with the Chinese character for the yuan, 圆 (or 元 in informal Chinese). The renminbi is legal tender in mainland China, but not in Hong Kong or Macau.
One yuan is subdivided into 10 jiǎo (角), and a jiǎo in turn is subdivided into 10 fēn (分). The ISO code for renminbi (which may also be used for the yuan) is CNY (an abbreviation for Chinese yuan), or also CNH when traded in Hong Kong. The currency is often abbreviated RMB, or indicated by the yuan sign ¥ . In Chinese texts the currency may also be indicated with the Chinese character for the yuan, 圆 (or 元 in informal Chinese). The renminbi is legal tender in mainland China, but not in Hong Kong or Macau.
The official currency in China is the Renminbi (RMB or CNY) or in Chinese Ren-min-bi. The basic unit is the yuan (also known as kuai), which equals 10 jiao (or mao), which is then divided into 10 fen. Paper currency comes in 1.2,5,10,50 and 100 yuan notes. Paper jiao come in denominations of 1, 2, and 5. There are also 1 and 2 fen notes, but these are rarely used as they have no purchasing power. 1 yuan, 1 and 5 jiao, and 1, 2, and 5 fen coins are even common used in larger cities.
People get regularly confused about what to call Chinese money. In English you can refer to the Chinese dollar. In Chinese it has 3 common names and 2 symbols in use: Renminbi 人民币 means People's Currency and is abbreviated RMB (Renminbi). Yuan 元 means Dollar and is abbreviated CNY (Chinese Yuan). You will commonly hear people say kuai, pronounced kwai, which is a more local word for Yuan and still means dollar. 