Maize (/ˈmeɪz/ MAYZ; Zea mays subsp. mays, from Spanish: maiz maíz After taino), taíno mahiz known In-some english speaking countries, as corn is a large grain plant domesticated by indigenous Peoples in mesoamerica in. prehistoric times The leafy stalk produces ears which contain the grain, which are seeds called kernels. Maize kernels are often used in cooking as a starch. The six major types of maize are dent, flint, pod, popcorn, flour, and sweet.
Corn starch, cornstarch, cornflour or maize starch or maize is the starch derived from the corn (maize) grain. The starch is obtained from the endosperm of the corn kernel. 
The scientific name of corn (also known as maize) is  Zea mays.  This cereal grain is classified as follows -   Kingdom: Plantae   Division: Magnoliophyta   Clas … s: Liliopsida   Order: Poales   Family: Poaceae   Genus: Zea   Species: Z. mays . + 20 others found this useful. Elaine Clarke. 1 While corn is not difficult to 2  …. Hints for Growing Corn in Containers Corn is one of the plants that sprout and come up rather quickly. 3  Therefore, it is a great plant to grow with children in containers.
Definition of CORN. 1. chiefly dialect: a small hard particle: grain. 2. 3. British: the grain of a cereal grass that is the primary crop of a region (as wheat in Britain and oats in Scotland and Ireland); also: a plant that produces corn. 4. Definition of CORN for Kids. 1. : a tall American cereal grass plant widely grown for its large ears of starchy grain which come in many varieties. 2. : the seeds of a corn plant that are used especially as food for humans and animals and are typically yellow or whitish.
corn. This plant can be weedy or invasive according to the authoritative sources noted below.This plant may be known by one or more common names in different places, and some are listed above. Click on an acronym to view each weed list, or click here for a composite list of Weeds of the U.S
The word maize derives from the Spanish form of the indigenous Taino taíno word for the, plant. Maiz it is known by other names around the. World the word corn Outside North, America australia And New zealand refers to any cereal, crop its meaning understood to vary geographically to refer to the local. staple The leafy stalk produces ears which contain the grain, which are seeds called kernels. Maize kernels are often used in cooking as a starch. The six major types of maize are dent, flint, pod, popcorn, flour, and sweet.
Maize (/ˈmeɪz/ MAYZ; Zea mays subsp. mays, from Spanish: maiz maíz After taino), taíno mahiz known In-some english speaking countries, as corn is a large grain plant domesticated by indigenous Peoples in mesoamerica in. Prehistoric times the leafy stalk produces ears which contain, the grain which are seeds. called kernels The leafy stalk produces ears which contain the grain, which are seeds called kernels. Maize kernels are often used in cooking as a starch. The six major types of maize are dent, flint, pod, popcorn, flour, and sweet.
To modern North Americans, however, corn means maize —that is, the plant Zea mays and its seeds. When they first encountered Zea mays in the 16th century, the English borrowed the Spanish term for the grain, maiz, maíz which is in turn a borrowing Of arawakan mahiz or. mahis mahís corn 1. n. 1. a. Any of numerous cultivated forms of a widely grown, usually tall annual cereal grass (Zea mays) bearing grains or kernels on large ears. b. The grains or kernels of this plant, used as food for humans and livestock or for the extraction of an edible oil or starch. Also called Indian corn, maize.
When they first encountered Zea mays in the 16th century, the English borrowed the Spanish term for the grain, maiz, maíz which is in turn a borrowing Of arawakan mahiz or. Mahis, mahís later in the, 17th century another term for, Maize appears —indian corn The word indian here meaning native To.. the americas corn 1. n. 1. a. Any of numerous cultivated forms of a widely grown, usually tall annual cereal grass (Zea mays) bearing grains or kernels on large ears. b. The grains or kernels of this plant, used as food for humans and livestock or for the extraction of an edible oil or starch. Also called Indian corn, maize.