Background. Excoriation (skin-picking) disorder involves the conscious creation of neurotic excoriations by means of repetitive scratching. Neurotic excoriations should be distinguished from dermatitis artefacta, in which patients create lesions for secondary gain. Practice Essentials. Excoriation (skin-picking) disorder involves conscious creation of neurotic excoriations through repetitive scratching. Neurotic excoriations can be initiated by some minor skin pathology (eg, insect bite, folliculitis, or acne), but it can also be independent of any pathology.
1 Medicine Damage or remove part of the surface of (the skin): the discharge is acrid and excoriates the skin of the nose. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  People with this condition have a rash, pruritis, and excoriated crythematous skin in body folds, axillae, and groin. Example sentences. 1  Quite often, there is absolutely nothing to see on these patients skin, apart from self induced excoriations. 2  Activists had to encounter an initially dismissive public, hostile populist politicians, excoriation by religious fundamentalists and the slow wheels of government.
Cutaneous condition. any medical condition that affects the integumentary system -- the organ system that encloses the body and includes skin, hair, nails, and related muscle and glands. The major function of this system is as a barrier against the external environment. 
ex·co·ri·a·tion. A scratch mark; a linear break in the skin surface, usually covered with blood or serous crusts. [L. excorio, to skin, strip, fr. corium, skin, hide]. /ex·co·ri·a·tion/ (eks-ko″re-a´shun) any superficial loss of substance, as that produced on the skin by scratching.
Medical Definition of EXCORIATION. 1. 2. : a raw irritated lesion (as of the skin or a mucosal surface). — ex·co·ri·ate \ek-ˈskōr-ē-ˌāt\ transitive verb, ex·co·ri·at·ed ex·co·ri·at·ing. 
A cutaneous condition is any medical condition that affects the integumentary system — the organ system that encloses the body and includes skin, hair, nails, and related muscle and glands. The major function of this system is as a barrier against the external environment. 
excoriation. Definitions: 1. A scratch mark; a linear break in the skin surface, usually covered with blood or serous crusts. The definition information for excoriation is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
2 formal Criticize (someone) severely: he excoriated the government for censorship. More example sentences. 1  Critics excoriating him for other aspects of his film show an equal lack of sensitivity to the challenges that come with highly structured storytelling. Example sentences. 1  Quite often, there is absolutely nothing to see on these patients skin, apart from self induced excoriations. 2  Activists had to encounter an initially dismissive public, hostile populist politicians, excoriation by religious fundamentalists and the slow wheels of government.