It's likely that yellow watermelon offers its own unique set of nutritional benefits, but most research to date has focused on the pink-fleshed varieties. 1. Watermelon Has More Lycopene Than Raw Tomatoes. Lycopene is a powerful carotenoid antioxidant that gives fruits and vegetables a pink or red color. 
Watermelon. Watermelon is a tender, warm-season vegetable. Watermelons can be grown in all parts of the country, but the warmer temperatures and longer growing season of southern areas especially favor this vegetable. Gardeners in northern areas should choose early varieties and use transplants. The flesh should be deep colored with mature seeds. Most watermelons have dark brown or black seeds. The seedless variety produces a few white seeds. Once picked, uncut watermelon can be stored for about 2 weeks at room temperature especially if the temperature is about 45 to 50°.
1 Prior to ripening, when the flesh of a watermelon is primarily white in color, its beta-carotene content is near zero. 2  Even when allowed to ripen to the white-pink stage, a watermelon still contains very little of its eventual beta-carotene content. Watermelon is an unusual fruit source of the carotenoid lycopene and a rich source of phenolic antioxidants. Watermelon contains cucurbitacin E, a triterpene anti-inflammatory phytonutrient, and unusual amounts of the amino acid citrulline.
Lycopene is an pigment that gives tomatoes, watermelon and pink grapefruit their red color. Lycopene is one of hundreds of carotenoids in fruits and vegetables, beta carotene being the most well-known. 
Wild Watermelon #FC6C85. Be the first to review. 'Wild Watermelon' is a shade of Pink that is 57% saturated and 99% bright. For reference purposes, Wild Watermelon has the hex value #FC6C85. Crayola issued this color in 1972 under the name 'Wild Watermelon,' and is currently available in the 72 pack of crayons. Sherwin Williams® carries a paint called 'Zany Pink' , which is 95% similar to Wild Watermelon. Additionally, Pantone's® color #190 is a 96% match.
Introduction. Watermelon flesh color is controlled by several genes to produce scarlet red, coral red, orange, salmon yellow, canary yellow, or white. Genes conditioning flesh colors are B, C, i-C, Wf, y, and y-o. Canary yellow (C) is dominant to other colored flesh (c). 
'Wild Watermelon' is a shade of Pink that is 57% saturated and 99% bright. For reference purposes, Wild Watermelon has the hex value #FC6C85. Sherwin Williams® carries a paint called 'Zany Pink' , which is 95% similar to Wild Watermelon. Additionally, Pantone's® color #190 is a 96% match.
1 This is a creamy spot on the melon, and it’s where the watermelon was resting on the ground. 2  The field spot should be a yellowish creamy color, like shown with my watermelon: The darker the color of the creamy spot, the longer it was on the vine sweetening up. 
Link may die if entry is finally removed or merged. The color watermelon is displayed at left. The first recorded use of watermelon as a color name in English was in 1926 .... This color is identical with the Crayola color wild watermelon (see the List of Crayola crayon colors). The color name wild watermelon has been in use for this color since 1990 by Crayola (see the List of Crayola crayon colors). 
The fruit has a smooth hard rind, usually green with dark green stripes or yellow spots, and a juicy, sweet interior flesh, usually deep red to pink, but sometimes orange, yellow, or white, with many seeds. 