Science. Camellia oil, or tsubaki oil, is rich in oleic acid and vitamins A, B, D and E as well as nourishing Omega 3, 6 and 9. The molecular weight of the oil is an almost identical match for skin, allowing it to absorb quickly and thoroughly. The Camellia Oil in TATCHA’s collection is harvested from the Goto Islands. The seeds are cold-pressed to extract the essential oil and retain its full benefits.
Camellia oil is commonly used to clean and protect the blades of cutting instruments. Camellia oil pressed from seeds of C. japonica, also called tsubaki oil or tsubaki-abura (椿油) in Japanese, has been traditionally used in Japan for hair care. Camellia plants are used as food plants by the larvae of a number of Lepidoptera species; see List of Lepidoptera that feed on Camellia. Leaves of the Japanese camellia (C. japonica) are susceptible to the fungal parasite Mycelia sterile (see below for the significance).
Camellia is a genus of flowering plants in the family Theaceae. They are found in eastern and southern Asia, from the Himalayas east to Japan and Indonesia. There are 100–250 described species, with some controversy over the exact number. Camellia plants are used as food plants by the larvae of a number of Lepidoptera species; see List of Lepidoptera that feed on Camellia. Leaves of the Japanese camellia (C. japonica) are susceptible to the fungal parasite Mycelia sterile (see below for the significance).
Camellia oil has several synonyms such as white camellia oil,camellia sasanqua oil, tea seed oil,camellia seed oil. The oil is derived by cold pressing from camellia plant seeds. Camellia oil comes from plant Camellia Oliefera, that grows in the mountains of South East and North Asia. Camellia Sinensis is a tea plant, which produces Green and Black teas. Tsubaki, Cha Hua or Camellia flowers are native to Japan and North China, where they blossom in November and stay fresh even under the snow. Camellia Oil has been used for centuries for beauty of skin and hair in China and Japan. Geishas of Kyoto used to moisturize their skin and hair with tsubaki oil. Samurais wiped their swards with camellia oil to protect it from rusting and corrosion, which is an early evidence of its excellent antioxidant qualities.
About. Camellia, the camellias, is a genus of flowering plants in the family Theaceae. They are native to eastern and southern Asia, from the Himalaya east to Korea and Indonesia. There are 100–250 described species, with some controversy over the exact number. Popular hybrids include Camellia × hiemalis|C. × hiemalis (C. japonica × C. sasanqua) and Camellia × williamsii|C. × williamsii (C. japonica × Camellia saluenensis|C. saluenensis). They are highly valued in Japan and elsewhere for their very early flowering, often among the first flowers to appear in the late winter.
Camellia. Camellia /ca-mel-lia/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ka-MEEL-yah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Camellia is helper to the priest. The meaning of this old Roman surname, which probably originated in pre-Roman Italy, is not certain. The Camellia flower is named for the botanist and missionary Georg Josef Kamel, and is often associated with the name Camille, though they are from different roots. Alexandre Dumas' famous 19th-century play La Dame aux Cam lias was known in America as Camille. See also Kamelia.
Introduction. Tea-oil camellia are so named because they are cultivated in their native homeland of China specifically for the seeds, from which is extracted commercial tea oil. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Camellia oleifera, which originated in China, is notable as an important source of edible oil (known as tea oil or camellia oil) obtained from its seeds. It is commonly known as the oil-seed camellia or tea oil camellia, though to a lesser extent other species of camellia are used in oil production too. Tea-oil Camellia is commonly over 80% monounsaturated fat. As such, it reduces LDL ('bad cholesterol'). Tea Oil is also known as Tea Seed Oil when sold as cooking oil in supermarkets throughout Australia, New Zealand and the United States.