One half of Canada's totoal area is Canadian Shield. The Canadian Shield landscape exists in a remote northeastern corner of Alberta in the Kazan Upland and Athabasca Plain sub-regions of the Canadian Shield. The Shield region comprises 3 percent of Alberta's lands
noun. 1  Also called : : Laurentian Shield, Laurentian Plateau (in Canada) the wide area of Precambrian rock extending west from the Labrador coast to the basin of the Mackenzie and north from the Great Lakes to Hudson Bay and the Arctic: rich in minerals. 1 Trends. 2
Canadian Shield. The Canadian Shield refers to the exposed portion of the continental crust underlying North America. The Canadian Shield refers to the exposed portion of the continental crust underlying North America. The crust, also known as the North American Craton, consists of rock from the Archean and Proterozoic eons and extends from Mexico to Greenlan
Canadian Shield. 1  Also called : : Laurentian Shield, Laurentian Plateau (in Canada) the wide area of Precambrian rock extending west from the Labrador coast to the basin of the Mackenzie and north from the Great Lakes to Hudson Bay and the Arctic: rich in minerals. 1 Trends. 2
1 Also called : : Laurentian Shield, Laurentian Plateau (in Canada) the wide area of Precambrian rock extending west from the Labrador coast to the basin of the Mackenzie and north from the Great Lakes to Hudson Bay and the Arctic: rich in minerals. 1 Trends. 2 
Definitions. 1  Also called : : Laurentian Shield, Laurentian Plateau (in Canada) the wide area of Precambrian rock extending west from the Labrador coast to the basin of the Mackenzie and north from the Great Lakes to Hudson Bay and the Arctic: rich in minerals. 1 Trends. 2
Canadian Shield-a large plateau that occupies more than 40% of the land area of Canada; it extends from the Great Lakes northward to the Arctic Ocean. Laurentian Highlands, Laurentian Plateau. A plateau region of eastern Canada extending from the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River northward to the Arctic Ocean. The highland formation also covers much of Greenland and forms the Adirondack Mountains in the United States.
The lowlands of the Canadian Shield have a very dense soil that is not suitable for forestation, but it also contains many marshes and bogs. The rest of the region has coarse soil that does not retain moisture well and is frozen with permafrost year round. Forests are not as dense in the north. The North American craton is the bedrock forming the heart of the North American continent and the Canadian Shield is the largest exposed part of the craton's bedrock. The Canadian Shield is part of an ancient continent called Arctica, which was formed about 2.5 billion years ago during the Neoarchean era.
Canadian Shield. The Canadian Shield, also called the Laurentian Plateau, or Bouclier Canadien, is a large area of exposed Precambrian igneous and high-grade metamorphic rocks that forms the ancient geological core of the North American continent, covered by a thin layer of soil.
Definition of CANADIAN SHIELD. plateau region E Canada & NE United States extending from Mackenzie River basin E to Davis Strait & S to S Quebec, NE Minnesota, N Wisconsin, NW Michigan, & NE New York including the Adirondacks. Tweet