Meaning of Asha. Indian name. In Indian, the name Asha means-Hope.. Other origins for the name Asha include-Indian, Arabian.The name Asha is most often used as a girl name or female name. Indian Name Meaning-Hope. Origin-Indian.
The word is also the proper name of the divinity Asha, the Amesha Spenta that is the hypostasis or genius of Truth or Righteousness. In the Younger Avesta, this figure is more commonly referred to as Asha Vahishta (Aša Vahišta, Arta Vahišta), Best Truth. Asha (/ˈɑːʃə/ ; aša) is the Avestan language term (corresponding to Vedic language ṛta) for a concept of cardinal importance to Zoroastrian theology and doctrine. In the moral sphere, aša/arta represents what has been called the decisive confessional concept of Zoroastrianism.
Show similar names Show variant names. In Local: ఆశా; ; ஆஷா; આશા; ആശാ; আশা; आशा; ಆಶಾ; ਆਸ਼ਾ. Name Asha generally means Hope or Aspiration or Expectation, is of Sanskrit, Arabian, Indian, African origin, Name Asha is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Sikh or Parsi or Hindu by religion. 
More About Hindu Name: Asha. Asha is of Sanskrit origin and its meaning is wish, desire, hope. Asha is a town in Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia.Asha is famous for its alpine skiing location, Adzigardak. It means hope. Asha Name also appears in following Origin(s): Sanskrit, Swahili, Arabic, Hindu, Norwegian, English. 
Persian Meaning: The name Asha is a Persian baby name. In Persian the meaning of the name Asha is: Protector of fire. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony.
The name Eshe (African) is a variant of Asha. In addition, Asha is a variant of the name Aisha (African, Arabic, English, and Swahili) in the Arabic and English languages. Asha is an uncommon baby girl name. At the modest height of its usage in 1998, 0.013% of baby girls were named Asha. It was #853 in rank then. Asha is used chiefly in the African, English, Indian, and Swahili languages. Its origin is Sanskrit. It is derived literally from the word 'asha' meaning desire, hope, hopeful. Asha is used chiefly in African and English.
Comments and insights on the name Asha: | Edit. We named our daughter Asha in 1985 based on a list of Sanskrit names a friend from India put together for us. The Sanskrit meaning he assigned to it was hope and is a common name in India for females. Since then I've discovered that Asha has much older & deeper origins. Meanings and history of the name Asha: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Asha: | Edit. Asha Bhosle. An Indian singer best known as a playback singer in Hindi cinema.
What does Asha mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Asha is of African Swahili origin. The meaning of Asha is life. It is also of Hindi origin, where its meaning is hope. 