Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease with symptoms that can be caused in part by inflammation. RA symptoms can vary from person to person, including: 1  Joint pain, swelling and stiffness. 2  Fatigue and muscle pain. 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren’t perfectyou can test negative for RA factors and still have it. 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that affects the joints. It causes pain, swelling, and stiffness. If one knee or hand has rheumatoid arthritis, usually the other does too. This disease often occurs in more than one joint and can affect any joint in the body. People with this disease may feel sick and tired, and they sometimes get fevers. A rheumatologist is a doctor who helps people with problems in the joints, bones, and muscles. Rheumatoid arthritis can be hard to diagnose because: 1  There is no single test for the disease. 2  The symptoms can be the same as other kinds of joint disease.
Share +. Text A A A. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease where the body's immune system attacks normal joint tissues, causing inflammation of the joint lining. This inflammation of the joint lining (called the synovium) can cause pain, stiffness, swelling, warmth, and redness
Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the body’s immune system – which normally protects its health by attacking foreign substances like bacteria and viruses – mistakenly attacks the joints. 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long lasting autoimmune disorder that primarily affects joints. It typically results in warm, swollen, and painful joints. Pain and stiffness often worsen following rest. Most commonly the wrist and hands are involved with typically the same joints involved on both sides of the body. While the cause of rheumatoid arthritis is not clear, it is believed to involve a combination of genetic and environmental factors. The underlying mechanism involves the body's immune system attacking the joints. This results in inflammation and thickening of the joint capsule.
Arthritis means joint inflammation. The joint inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis causes swelling, pain, stiffness, and redness in the joints. The inflammation of rheumatoid disease can also occur in tissues around the joints, such as the tendons, ligaments, and muscles. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA or atrophic arthritis) facts. 1  Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that can cause chronic inflammation of the joints and other areas of the body. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and signs include. 3  joint pain in the feet, hands, and knees, 4  swollen joints, 5  fever, 6  tender joints,
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory disease that causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints. It occurs when the immune system, which normally defends the body from invading organisms, turns its attack against the membrane lining the joints. Like many other rheumatic diseases, rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease (auto means self), so-called because a person’s immune system, which normally helps protect the body from infection and disease, attacks joint tissues for unknown reasons.
Advertisement. Advertisement. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease in which the body’s immune system – which normally protects its health by attacking foreign substances like bacteria and viruses – mistakenly attacks the joints. 