It was restored as part of the 1986 Stoke-on-Trent Garden Festival and is now part of a four-star hotel. Josiah Wedgwood (12 July 1730—3 January 1795) was an English potter who founded the Wedgwood company and is credited with the industrialisation of the manufacture of pottery. In the latter part of his life, Wedgwood's obsession was to duplicate the Portland Vase, a blue and white glass vase dating to the first century BC. For three years he worked on the project, eventually producing what he considered a satisfactory copy in 1789.
Like many radicals at the time, Josiah Wedgwood was deeply influenced by the writings of Henry George. After reading Progress and Poverty Wedgwood wrote: Ever since 1905 I have known that there was a man from God, and his name was Henry George! I had no need thenceforth for any other faith.. His father, Clement Wedgwood, was the grandson of Josiah Wedgwood, the famous potter from Staffordshire. The Wedgwood family had a long tradition of supporting liberal causes such as the anti-slavery campaign and the 1832 Reform Act. After attending Clifton College, Wedgwood entered the Royal Naval Academy.
Josiah Wedgwood © Wedgwood was an innovative designer, a manufacturer of high-quality pottery and a campaigner for social reform. Josiah Wedgwood was born into a family of potters on 12 July 1730, at Burslem, Staffordshire. 
Josiah Wedgwood   Establishing his famous company in 1759, Josiah Wedgwood was the man who made the Potteries great. He transformed the pottery industry and became ' … Potter to Her Majesty'. In 2009, company celebrated its 250th anniversary. 2 people found this useful. 
Josiah Wedgwood. Josiah Wedgwood, the thirteenth and youngest son of the potter, Thomas Wedgwood, was born in Burslem, Stoke, on 12th July 1730. His mother was the daughter of the Unitarian minister at Newcastle under Lyme. Josiah Wedgwood married his third cousin, Sarah Wedgwood, on 25th January 1764. According to his biographer, Robin Reilly: Sarah was a substantial heiress and brought with her a considerable dowry, said to have been £4,000, which came under Wedgwood's control.
In 1754, a young Josiah Wedgwood sat in a small pottery in Burslem, Staffordshire and worked away on a product that would change Britain and the world. It was not the steam engine or the chronometer, or many of the other innovations that became hallmarks of the first and second industrial revolutions. 
Josiah Wedgwood was born in Barlaston on 16th March, 1872. His father, Clement Wedgwood, was the grandson of Josiah Wedgwood, the famous potter from Staffordshire. The Wedgwood family had a long tradition of supporting liberal causes such as the anti-slavery campaign and the 1832 Reform Act. After attending Clifton College, Wedgwood entered the Royal Naval Academy.
Josiah Wedgwood and Sons, commonly known as Wedgwood, is a fine china, porcelain, and luxury accessories company founded on 1 May 1759 by Josiah Wedgwood. In 1987, Wedgwood merged with Waterford Crystal to create Waterford Wedgwood, an Ireland-based luxury brands group. 1 Josiah Wedgwood III (1795–1880), son of Josiah II, was a partner in the firm from 1825 until he retired in 1842. 2  Francis Wedgwood, son of Josiah II, was a partner in the firm from 1827 and sole proprietor following his father's death until joined by his own sons.
Josiah Wedgwood was an English potter and industrialist born at Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent. He had very high standards of workmanship and a keen interest in scientific advancements. He became well respected and his customers embraced the rich and famous, including royalty. He was also a keen abolitionist.