In physics, the wavelength of a sinusoidal wave is the spatial period of the wave—the distance over which the wave's shape repeats, and the inverse of the spatial frequency. where v is called the phase speed (magnitude of the phase velocity) of the wave and f is the wave's frequency. In a dispersive medium, the phase speed itself depends upon the frequency of the wave, making the relationship between wavelength and frequency nonlinear.
The distance per cycle of a wave is called the wavelength. It's easiest to find the wavelength by measuring the spatial distance between two wave crests. Earlier, we were measuring the time it took to complete one cycle. But now, we're measuring the length of one complete wave cycle. 
Medical Definition of FLUORESCENCE. : luminescence that is caused by the absorption of radiation at one wavelength followed by nearly immediate reradiation usually at a different wavelength and that ceases almost immediately when the incident radiation stops; also: the radiation emitted.
Wavelength. Wavelength is the distance between two identical adjacent points in a wave. It is typically measured between two easily identifiable points, such as two adjacent crests or troughs in a waveform. Wavelength is inversely proportional to frequency. That means if two waves are traveling at the same speed, the wave with a higher frequency will have a shorter wavelength. Likewise, if one wave has a longer wavelength than another wave, it will also have a lower frequency if both waves are traveling at the same speed.
n. The distance between one peak of a wave to the next corresponding peak, or between any two adjacent corresponding points, defined as the speed of a wave divided by its frequency. on the same wavelength Informal. In complete accord; in harmony: a fluid ... 
Tweet. : the distance from one wave of energy to another as it is traveling from one point to another point. —used especially in the phrases on the same wavelength and on a different wavelength to say that people share or do not share a way of thinking. Full Definition of WAVELENGTH. 1. : the distance in the line of advance of a wave from any one point to the next point of corresponding phase. 2. See wavelength defined for English-language learners. See wavelength defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Definition: Wavelength is a property of a wave that is the distance between identical points between two successive waves. The distance between one crest (or trough) of one wave and the next is the wavelength of the wave. Examples: The wavelength of light determines its color and the wavelength of sound determines the pitch.
Definition of FLUORESCENCE. : luminescence that is caused by the absorption of radiation at one wavelength followed by nearly immediate reradiation usually at a different wavelength and that ceases almost at once when the incident radiation stops; also: the radiation emitted — compare phosphorescence. : luminescence that is caused by the absorption of radiation at one wavelength followed by nearly immediate reradiation usually at a different wavelength and that ceases almost immediately when the incident radiation stops; also: the radiation emitted.
wave·length. n. The distance between one peak of a wave to the next corresponding peak, or between any two adjacent corresponding points, defined as the speed of a wave divided by its frequency. on the same wavelength Informal. In complete accord; in harmony: a fluid ... or wave′ length`, the distance, measured in the direction of propagation of a wave, between two successive points in the wave that are characterized by the same phase of oscillation. on the same wavelength, sharing values, ideas, or impulses; thinking and acting in harmony.