, French: Anvers [ɑ̃vɛʁ(s)]) is a city in Belgium which is the capital of Antwerp province. With a population of 510,610, it is the most populous city in Flanders. Its metropolitan area houses around 1,200,000 people. Antwerp is on the River Scheldt, linked to the North Sea by the Westerschelde estuary. The Port of Antwerp is one of the biggest in the world, ranking third in Europe and within the top 20 globally. Antwerp was the richest city in Europe at this time. Antwerp's golden age is tightly linked to the  Age of Exploration . During the first half of the 16th century Antwerp grew to become the second-largest European city north of the Alps.
Antwerp is on the right bank of the river Scheldt (Flemish Schelde, French Escaut) 88km/55mi from where it meets the North Sea. The port of Antwerp is the second largest seaport in Europe. The river at this point is some 500m/550yds wide and, despite the distance from the sea, Antwerp still experiences a tidal range of over 4m/ 13ft.
A founding member of the European Union, the Kingdom of Belgium is situated in Western Europe. It is bounded by the North Sea in the northwest, Netherlands in the north, France in the south and west and Luxembourg and Germany in the east. 
1 Antwerp has a Eurolines office near the central bus station (Rooseveltplaats, office in the Van Stralenstraat) [14] . 2  There are regular buses to London and to most cities in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the Balkan, the Baltic states and eastern/northern Europe. 3  Their buses usually halt in the Van Stralenstraat. By bus [edit]. 1 
Flanders. 1  Antwerp (Dutch: Antwerpen, French: Anvers) — Belgium's second largest city, along the Scheldt river, is landmarked by the enormous Gothic cathedral of Our Lady and especially known for four things: Rubens, diamonds, fashion and the port, the second largest of Europe. The northern, Dutch-speaking region of the country. It includes well known cities like Antwerp, Ghent and Bruges. The Flemish provinces are (from west to east): West-Flanders, East-Flanders, Antwerp, Flemish-Brabant and Limburg.
Antwerp is the second largest city of Belgium. It has a beautiful historic city center, and is world-renowned for its fashion industry. The port of Antwerp is the second largest in Europe, and a major economic player in Belgium. By bus [edit]. 1  Antwerp has a Eurolines office near the central bus station (Rooseveltplaats, office in the Van Stralenstraat) [14] . 2  There are regular buses to London and to most cities in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the Balkan, the Baltic states and eastern/northern Europe.
Geography. Located in western Europe, Belgium has about 40 mi of seacoast on the North Sea, at the Strait of Dover, and is approximately the size of Maryland. The Meuse and the Schelde, Belgium's principal rivers, are important commercial arteries.
Where is Antwerp in Antwerpen, Belgium Located? Antwerp is a city/town with a medium population in the province of Antwerpen, Belgium which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Antwerp include Sainte-Anne, Sint-Anna, Antwerpen and Anvers. The closest major cities include Brussels, Gent, Tilburg and Rotterdam. 
The port of Antwerp, in Belgium, is a port in the heart of Europe accessible to capesize ships. Antwerp stands at the upper end of the tidal estuary of the Scheldt. The estuary is navigable by ships of more than 100,000 Gross Tons as far as 80 km inland. The inland location means that the port of Antwerp enjoys a more central location in Europe than the majority of North Sea ports. Antwerp's docks are connected to the hinterland by rail, waterway and road.
In the capital of the province of Antwerpen in Flanders, northeast Belgium (Western Europe). 1  97.9 km from Rotterdam. 2  150 km’s south of Amsterdam. 3  340 km’s north of Paris. 4  370 km’s east of London. 5  393 km, 3 hours 41 mins by car from Frankfurt. The port of Antwerp is the second largest seaport in Europe. The river at this point is some 500m/550yds wide and, despite the distance from the sea, Antwerp still experiences a tidal range of over 4m/ 13ft.