- DNA and RNA are made up of monomers called nucleotides. - DNA and RNA both contain pentose sugars. - DNA and RNA both have 3 nitrogenous bases: Adenine, Cytosine and Guanine. - DNA and RNA both have a phosphate groups in their
The following distinguishing characteristics can be used to differentiate between DNA and RNA: Pentose sugar-the deoxyribose of DNA has one less oxygen than the ribose of R … NA Nitrogenous bases-DNA contain adenine, thymine, cytosine, guanine; RNA contains adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine.
Three of the nitrogenous bases are the same for both RNA and DNA: guanine, adenine, and cytosine. Thymine, the fourth base pair found in DNA, is replaced by uracil in RNA. DNA has deoxyribose sugar while RNA has ribose sugar. The deoxyribose sugar has one less oxygen atom than the
Here are some major … differences between RNA and DNA: With the exception of a few viruses, RNA is a single-stranded molecule while DNA is double-stranded. The two DNA chains are connected by hydrogen bonds between nitrogenous bases. DNA can is replicated during cell division; RNA is not.
well the difference is that DNA's bases are thymine guanine cytosine and Ardine. But RNA instead of having thymine has uracil. DNA in most of the time doubled stranded when RNA is normally single stranded. The DNA contains the genetic information and the rna transferes the information into proteins.
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring.
Each nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nucleic acid base. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The sugar in RNA is ribose, the same as deoxyribose but with one more OH (oxygen-hydrogen atom combination called a hydroxyl). This is the biggest difference between DNA and RNA.
DNA is a doubled stranded structure, while RNA is a single stranded structure. RNA contains the sugar ribose, while DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. RNA can have 4 nucleoti … des: cytosine, guanine, uracil, and adenine. DNA can have all these nucleotides except for uracil, which is replaced by thymine.
#in DNA the sugar is alpha 2 deoxyribose, whereas in RNA it is alpha ribose. #also one major difference is of the base. in DNA four types of bases are found namely, cytosine, adenine, guanine and thymine. In RNA all the bases are same except thymine.
One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).