Articular facet on the superior process of the vertebra below with the articular facet on the inferior articular process of the vertebra above. The superior facet of the inferior vertebra is rather flat in the cervical and thoracic regions and more convex in the lumbar region.
The arch encloses an opening, the vertebral foramen, which helps to form a canal in which the spinal cord is housed. Protruding from the posterior extreme of each neural arch is a spinous process and extending from the lateral edges of each arch are transverse processes.
With isthmic spondylolisthesis, the pars defect divides the vertebra into an anterior part (vertebral body, pedicles, transverse processes, and superior articular facet) and a posterior part (inferior facet, laminae, and spinous process). The anterior part slips forward, leaving the posterior part behind.
Every vertebra, regardless of location, has three basic functional parts: (1) the drum-shaped vertebral body, designed to bear weight and withstand compression or loading; (2) the posterior (backside) arch, made of the lamina, pedicles and facet joints; and (3) the transverse processes, to which muscles attach.
The neural foramen is bordered by the superior articular process, pars interarticularis, and posterior portion of the vertebral body. Z-joint hypertrophy or a synovial cyst can contribute to lateral and central lumbar stenosis, which can lead to impingement on the exiting nerve root.
Facet Joints. Search. Also known as zygapophyseal or apopphyseal joint, is a synovial joint between the superior articular process of one vertebra and the inferior articular process of the vertebra directly above it. There are two facet joints in each spinal motion segment.
Each vertebral body has two articular processes at the top and bottom where the lamina and pedicle meet. These articular processes create a joint, called the facet joint, between the stacked vertebral bodies. There is a facet joint on each side of the vertebral body.
By Michael Perry, M.D. Posterior facet syndrome (facet disease) is a degenerative spine arthritis that can lead to the presence of chronic neck or back pain.