· just now. Report Abuse. most of the lung is made up of capillaries and alveoli, because the body needs to transport oxygen around the body quicker, so having a lot of capillaries ensures more oxygen gets into the blood quicker. Best Answer: Alveoli are the actual sites of gas exchange between the lungs and the blood. They are incredibly thin to allow easy diffusion of gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide) back and forth.
The oxygen exchange in the lungs takes place across the membranes of small balloon-like structures called alveoli attached to the branches of the bronchial passages. These alveoli inflate and deflate with inhalation and exhalation. The behavior of the alveoli is largely dictated by LaPlace's law and surface tension. 
Alveoli are small air sacs in the lungs, as small as a grain of sand. There are billions of these in the lungs, and the purpose of these alveoli are to supply de-oxygenated bl … ood with a supply of oxygen through gas exchange. They are well-equipped to do this, as well. Much of the surface of each of the approximately 300 million alveoli in a human lung is a layer of simple epithelial tissue on a fine mesh of capillaries. Forming a membrane o … nly the thickness of one cell, simple epithelium allows the passage of gases between the lungs and the
it is made up of the alveoli's because they have very thin walls, only one cell thick to allow exchange/diffusion of gases through it and interchange of these gases with the blood, the capillary network means the gases can be easily delivered to the lungs and absorbed into the blood at the lung surface. Best Answer: Alveoli are the actual sites of gas exchange between the lungs and the blood. They are incredibly thin to allow easy diffusion of gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide) back and forth.
Lung Anatomy. The lungs are made up of millions of tiny balloons called alveoli, which fill with air each time you inhale and deflate each time you exhale. The many microscopic alveoli make the lungs look like sponges. Alveoli are made up of squamous epitheliel tissue, which is very thin and elastic, like the walls of a balloon. 
The essential tissue of the lung lung parenchyma is made up of clusters of spongy air sacs called lobules. There are about 130,000 primary lobules in each lung. Each lobule is approximately 3.5 millimeters in diameter and contains about 2,200 alveoli (air sacs and ducts). Anatomy of the Blood Vessels. Oxygen-poor blood is brought back to the lungs by the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery divides into branches that parallel the bronchial tubes and ends in a network of pulmonary capillaries (tiny blood vessels) within the walls of the small air passages and alveoli of the lungs.
The lungs are made up of many air sacs. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Allergies and Your Lungs: Symptoms to Watch Out For When your body's immune system perceives a threat, it responds in certain ways. 2  Sometimes these responses take the form of allergies. alveolar = air sac   simple squamous epithelium; single layer of flattened cells with disc-shaped central nuclei and sparse cytoplasm; the simplest of the epithelium.
Lungs ensure that efficient gas exchange takes place between the air and the person's blood. The lungs are a pair of lobed s … tructures made up of a series of highly branched tubules called bronchioles, which end in tiny air sacs called the alveoli (the alveolar membrane is the site of gas exchange).   Lungs allow us to take in oxygen from the external air and allow us to get rid of excess carbon dioxide. alveolar = air sac   simple squamous epithelium; single layer of flattened cells with disc-shaped central nuclei and sparse cytoplasm; the simplest of the epithelium.
Found in the lung parenchyma, the pulmonary alveoli are the terminal ends of the respiratory tree, which outcrop from either alveolar sacs or alveolar ducts, which are both sites of gas exchange with the blood as well. Alveoli are particular to mammalian lungs. A typical pair of human lungs contain about 700 million alveoli, producing 70m 2 of surface area. Each alveolus is wrapped in a fine mesh of capillaries covering about 70% of its area. An adult alveolus has an average diameter of 200 micrometres, with an increase in diameter during inhalation.