Function of Nemesis. The main function of nemesis in a literary work is to establish grounds for poetic justice. Nemesis acts as a source of punishment for hubristic and wicked characters on universal moral grounds i.e. the wicked and evil individuals should be penalized for their evilness.
Full Definition of NEMESIS. 1. capitalized: the Greek goddess of retributive justice. 2. plural nem·e·ses \-ˌsēz\ a: one that inflicts retribution or vengeance b: a formidable and usually victorious rival or opponent. Examples of NEMESIS. 1  He will be playing his old nemesis for the championship. 2  nemesis. 3  On just the kind of putt that had been a career-long nemesis, he kept his head perfectly still and knocked the ball squarely in the hole. —Jaime Diaz, Sports Illustrated, 20 Feb. 1995.
Definition and Examples of Literary Terms. Literary Devices refers to the typical structures used by writers in their works to convey his or her messages in a simple manner to the readers. When employed properly, the different literary devices help readers to appreciate, interpret and analyze a literary work.
n. pl. nem·e·ses (-sēz′). 1. A source of harm or ruin: Uncritical trust is my nemesis. 2. Retributive justice in its execution or outcome: To follow the proposed course of action is to invite nemesis. 3. An opponent that cannot be beaten or overcome. 4. One that inflicts retribution or vengeance. nem·e·ses (-sēz′). 1. A source of harm or ruin: Uncritical trust is my nemesis. 2. Retributive justice in its execution or outcome: To follow the proposed course of action is to invite nemesis. 3. An opponent that cannot be beaten or overcome. 4
The term nemesis comes from Nemesis in Greek mythology, the goddess of revenge or divine retribution against the people guilty of hubris i.e. showing arrogance before gods. In a general sense, nemesis refers to an indomitable rival or an inescapable situation that causes misery and death. The main function of nemesis in a literary work is to establish grounds for poetic justice. Nemesis acts as a source of punishment for hubristic and wicked characters on universal moral grounds i.e. the wicked and evil individuals should be penalized for their evilness.
Nemesis Definition. Nemesis is a literary device that refers to a situation of poetic justice where the good characters are rewarded for their virtues and the evil characters are punished for their vices. The main function of nemesis in a literary work is to establish grounds for poetic justice. Nemesis acts as a source of punishment for hubristic and wicked characters on universal moral grounds i.e. the wicked and evil individuals should be penalized for their evilness.
The word also sometimes refers to the character or medium by which this justice is brought about as Nemesis was the patron goddess of vengeance according to classical mythology. Example: In the popular book series Harry Potter, the protagonist Harry Potter is the nemesis of the evil Lord Voldemort. Nemesis was also called a death enemy. These people are mostly referred where situations of killing the protagonist comes to karma, reflecting or triggering something or someone against him or her.
Definition: In literature, the use of a nemesis refers to a situation of poetic justice wherein the positive characters are rewarded and the negative characters are penalized. Nemesis was also called a death enemy. These people are mostly referred where situations of killing the protagonist comes to karma, reflecting or triggering something or someone against him or her.