Many of the world's active volcanoes are located around the edges of the Pacific Ocean (so called the Ring of Fire): the west coast of the Americas, the east coast of Siberia, Japan, the Philippines, Indonesia, and in island chains from New Guinea to New Zealand. If the overlying plate is a continent, you get a chain of volcanoes such as the Andes or Cascades. If the overlying plate is ocean you get a chain of volcanic islands such as the Marianas or Aleutians. This is also where the Earth's deep ocean trenches are and where the Earth's deep earthquakes are.
The 'Ring of Fire' is a volcanic chain surrounding the Pacific Ocean. The 'Ring of Fire' is famous for its regular earthquake and volcanic activity. More than half of the world's active volcanoes above sea level form part of the ring. source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Pacific_Ring_of_Fire.svg. 
Iceland's volcanoes are found along this volcanic ridge. A number of volcanoes also occur along the Rift Valley of eastern Africa, another region where crustal plates are spreading apart. While most volcanoes form where crustal plates are colliding or spreading apart, some are located in the middle of plates. 
Active volcanoes generally occur close to the major tectonic plate boundaries. Many are located along the Earth's plate boundaries. Active volcanoes are rare in Australia because there are no plate boundaries on this continent. However, there are two active volcanoes located 4000 kilometres south west of Perth on the Australian territories, Heard Island and the nearby McDonald Islands. 
Sixty percent of all active volcanoes occur at the boundaries between tectonic plates. Most volcanoes are found along a belt, called the “Ring of Fire” that encircles the Pacific Ocean. Some volcanoes, like those that form the Hawaiian Islands, occur in the interior of plates at areas called “hot spots.”. Although most of the active volcanoes we see on land occur where plates collide, the greatest number of the Earth's volcanoes are hidden from view, occurring on the ocean floor along spreading ridges. 
Report Abuse. None of the above. Most volcanoes are found at extensional plate boundaries (e.g. mid ocean ridges) where two plates are moving away from each other. Magma rises and erupts on the surface in the gap between the the two plates. Magma can also erupt through fractures near the plate boundary. Almandine · 9 years ago.
Usually volcanoes are found near subduction zones, where oceanic crust sinks beneath continental crust. In fact, they're quite often about 200 km inland (on the continental plate) from where the subducting plate sinks below the overriding plate. As the subducting plate sinks, it melts. Volcanos are most commonly found at subduction zone boundaries. This is where the thinner oceanic plates get pulled under the thicker continental plates. As the plates go deeper, they melt and form pockets of magma which can cause mountains to be built and as the hot magma rises, it erupts out of volcanos.
Subduction zones are places where two plates, usually an oceanic plate and a continental plate, collide. In this case, the oceanic plate subducts, or submerges under the continental plate forming a deep ocean trench just offshore. Examples of extinct volcanoes are many volcanoes on the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean, Hohentwiel, Shiprock and the Zuidwal volcano in the Netherlands. Edinburgh Castle in Scotland is famously located atop an extinct volcano.
Volcanoes are awesome manifestations of the fiery power contained deep within the Earth. These formations are essentially vents on the Earth's surface where molten rock, debris, and gases from the planet's interior are emitted. 
The world’s largest volcano, Mauna Loa in Hawaii, is a shield volcano. Mauna Loa is about 55,770 feet (17,000 meters) from its base beneath the ocean to the summit, which is 13,681 feet (4,170 meters) above sea level. It is also one of the Earth’s most active volcanoes and is carefully monitored. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick. It is broken up into 14 major and 38 smaller pieces called tectonic plates.