Sources. Tinea (commonly called “ringworm”) spreads easily between people and animals. Tinea can also spread from one part of the body to another (for example, a patient with tinea pedis can go on to develop tinea cruris). Humans and animals can also be non-symptomatic carriers and can spread tinea to other
Ringworm most commonly affects the skin on the body (tinea corporis), the scalp (tinea capitis), the feet (tinea pedis, or athlete's foot), or the groin (tinea cruris, or jock itch). Tinea pedis is an extremely common skin disorder, also known as athlete's foot. This fungal infection may cause scaling and inflammation in the toe webs, especially the one between the fourth and fifth toes.
T rubrum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and Epidermophyton floccosum most commonly cause tinea pedis, with T rubrum being the most common cause worldwide. Trichophyton tonsurans has also been implicated in children. Nondermatophyte causes include Scytalidium dimidiatum, Scytalidium hyalinum, and, rarely, Candida species. The first report of tinea pedis was in 1908 by Whitfield, who, with Sabouraud, believed that tinea pedis was a very rare infection caused by the same organisms that produce tinea capitis. Tinea pedis is the term used for a dermatophyte infection of the soles of the feet and the interdigital spaces. Tinea pedis is most commonly caused by Trichophyton rubrum, a dermatophyte initially endemic only to a small region of Southeast Asia and in parts of Africa and Australia. Interestingly, tinea pedis was not noted in these areas then, possibly because these populations did not wear occlusive footwear
Ringworm is a common infection of the skin and nails that is caused by fungus. The infection is called “ringworm” because it can cause an itchy, red, circular rash. Ringworm is also called “tinea” or “dermatophytosis.” The different types of ringworm are usually named for the location of the infection on the body. Areas of the body that can be affected by ringworm include: 1  Feet (tinea pedis, commonly called “athlete’s foot”). 2  Groin, inner thighs, or buttocks (tinea cruris, commonly called “jock itch”). 3  Scalp (tinea capitis). 4  Beard (tinea barbae). 5  Hands (tinea manuum). 
Tinea pedis is the term used for a dermatophyte infection of the soles of the feet and the interdigital spaces. Tinea pedis is most commonly caused by Trichophyton rubrum, a dermatophyte initially endemic only to a small region of Southeast Asia and in parts of Africa and Australia. The interdigital type of tinea pedis is usually caused by T rubrum. It is more pruritic in hot, humid environments. Other possible causative organisms in tinea pedis include T mentagrophytes var interdigitale and E floccosum. Hyperhidrosis is a risk factor for infection.
Commonly these infections are named for the body part affected, including tinea corporis (general skin), tinea cruris (groin), and tinea pedis (feet). Accurate diagnosis is necessary for effective treatment. 
1 Another type of tinea pedis infection, called bullous tinea pedis, has painful and itchy blisters on the arch (instep) and/or the ball of the foot. 2  The most severe form of tinea pedis infection, called ulcerative tinea pedis, appears as painful blisters, pus-filled bumps (pustules), and shallow open sores (ulcers). 1
Ringworm of the Foot (Tinea Pedis). Tinea pedis is an extremely common skin disorder, also known as athlete's foot. This fungal infection may cause scaling and inflammation in the toe webs, especially the one between the fourth and fifth toes. Other symptoms include itching, burning, redness, and stinging on the soles of the feet
Its medical name is tinea pedis, a member of the group of diseases or conditions known as tinea, most of which are dermatophytoses (fungal infections of the skin, hair, or nails). Globally, athlete's foot affects about 15% of the population. Tinea pedis is caused by the mold known as Epidermophyton floccosum or molds of the Trichophyton genus of fungi, including T. rubrum, T. mentagrophytes, and T. tonsurans (more common in children).