Infections or presence of pus cells in the liver or even in urine are indicative of grave body infections and hence immediate tests are recommended by the doctors. Failure to take these recommended tests can prove fatal as liver is directly associated with urine and our excretory system. Urobilinogen test is one such test which finds out any defects and faults present in the liver or its operations.
When abnormal values of urobilinogen is found during a urine test, further investigation is required to ascertain your true health status. Using a urine test is a quick and inexpensive way to check for urobilinogen in your urine, and is one of our test kit products that can be done in the privacy of your home. A negative result at any time does not preclude the absence of urobilinogen. In addition, the test cannot be used to detect porphobilinogen. High concentrations of p-aminosalicylic acid and sulphonamides may obscure test patch color. Nitrite, isonicotinic acid (INH) and indole have little or no effect on the test.
Urobilinogen test and diagnosis. The most popularly used test to measure the amount of urobilinogen in urine is with the use of urine test sticks containing P-dimenthylaminobenzaldehyde.
Urobilinogen. The urobilinogen test detects impaired liver function by measuring urine levels of urobilinogen, the colorless, water-soluble product that results from the reduction of bilirubin by intestinal bacteria. Elevated levels may indicate hemolytic jaundice, hepatitis, or cirrhosis. The urobilinogen test detects impaired liver function by measuring urine levels of urobilinogen, the colorless, water-soluble product that results from the reduction of bilirubin by intestinal bacteria.
Urobilinogen in urine. When abnormal values of urobilinogen is found during a urine test, further investigation is required to ascertain your true health status. Using a urine test is a quick and inexpensive way to check for urobilinogen in your urine, and is one of our test kit products that can be done in the privacy of your home. A negative result at any time does not preclude the absence of urobilinogen. In addition, the test cannot be used to detect porphobilinogen. High concentrations of p-aminosalicylic acid and sulphonamides may obscure test patch color. Nitrite, isonicotinic acid (INH) and indole have little or no effect on the test
To detect the type of damage in the liver, urobilinogen tests are conducted by measuring uribilinogen levels in the urine. Ehrlich Aldehyde Reaction is a common test that is used to test Urobilinogen levels. A benzaldehyde in the presence of acid changes the color if urobilinogen is present to pinkish red color. Altered or the complete absence of urobilinogen levels usually indicates a dysfunction of Liver. Failure to take these recommended tests can prove fatal as liver is directly associated with urine and our excretory system. Urobilinogen test is one such test which finds out any defects and faults present in the liver or its operations.
– by admin 4. The amount of urobilinogen in urine is essential in determining if the liver is functioning normally. Urobilinogen is a product of bilirubin usually produced on the walls of the intestines and excreted via the kidney. The most popularly used test to measure the amount of urobilinogen in urine is with the use of urine test sticks containing P-dimenthylaminobenzaldehyde.