Jaundice is the medical term that describes yellowing of the skin and eyes. This condition forms when there is too much bilirubin in your system. Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is formed by the breakdown of dead red blood cells in the liver.
Jaundice is a term used to describe the yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes. It's caused by a build-up of a substance called bilirubin in the blood and body's tissues.
1 Jaundice-see also various causes of jaundice. 2  Carotenemia-causes more orange skin than yellow skin. 3  Beta-carotene dietary excess-usually more orange skin than yellow skin. 4  Hypothyrodism. 5  Pernicious anemia. 6  Uremia-causing a dry yellow-brown skin. 7  Xanthomata-small yellow fat deposits under the skin.
Jaundice, also referred to as icterus, is the yellow staining of the skin and sclerae (the whites of the eyes) by abnormally high blood levels of the bile pigment, bilirubin. The yellowing extends to other tissues and body fluids and also may turn the urine dark.
Yellow skin is a serious symptom needing prompt professional diagnosis, because it is most commonly caused by jaundice with various possible underlying causes of jaundice including severe liver conditions. It is important to check for yellow eyes in addition to yellow skin.
Jaundice, also referred to as icterus, is the yellow staining of the skin and sclerae (the whites of the eyes) by abnormally high blood levels of the bile pigment, bilirubin. The yellowing extends to other tissues and body fluids and also may turn the urine dark.
Jaundice is a yellow discoloration of the skin, mucous membranes, and the whites of the eyes caused by increased amounts of bilirubin in the blood. Jaundice is a sign of an underlying disease process. Bilirubin is a by-product of the daily natural breakdown and destruction of red blood cells in the body.
Jaundice is a yellowish discoloration of the skin, mucous membranes and of the white of the eyes caused by elevated levels of the chemical bilirubin in the blood (hyperbilirubinemia). The term jaundice is derived from the French word jaune, which means yellow.
Jaundice is a yellow color in the skin, mucus membranes, or eyes. The yellow pigment is from bilirubin, a byproduct of old red blood cells. Jaundice is also a symptom of other disorders. This article is about jaundice in children and adults.