Calculating interest savings using an offset account. Interest on a home or investment loan is almost always calculated daily. Therefore if you know what the daily balance of your offset account will be you can calculate the interest saving that the offset account will give you. Hence the general term offset account! Perhaps the easiest way to describe how an offset account works is via an example. Say today you owed $350,000 on your home loan and you had $5000 in your offset account as per the diagram below.
The true benefits lie with your loan however. The money (or balance) in your account is offset daily against your loan balance, and this will reduce the mortgage interest charged accordingly. So you might have a $500,000 loan and $50,000 in your offset account. Because of your offset account, you will only be charged interest against $450,000. By having a decent amount of money in your offset account, you can effectively cut years and thousands of dollars from your home loan and at the same time have a strategy to provision for holidays, fun stuff and rainy days just in case something happens – instead of having every single dollar going into your mortgage.
Instead of earning interest on the money in your offset account, you save interest on your home loan! This is beneficial because generally the interest rate on a savings account is far lower than the interest the bank is charging you on your home loan. So how does this compare to putting your money in a savings account? If your home loan was at an interest rate of 5% p.a. and the savings accounts with the banks were at 3.5% p.a. then instead of earning $3,500 p.a. on your $100,000, by putting it in an offset account you would save $5,000 in interest.
The Benefits Of A Mortgage Offset Account. The true benefits lie with your loan however. The money (or credit) in your account is offset daily against your loan balance, and this will reduce the mortgage interest charged accordingly. So you might have a $200,000 loan and $15,000 in your offset account. Because of your offset account, you will only be charged interest against $185,000. When choosing an offset transaction account, look for: 1  No balance limit, so you can keep building your savings and cutting down on your home loan term. 2  An account where 100% of your total balance is offset against your loan. 3  An equal interest rate to your mortgage.
A. An offset account is a separate savings account where the balance is offset daily against the loan amount. For example, if you have $5000 in your offset account, 'notional' interest is earnt on these funds, at the same interest rate as your linked loan. This 'notional' interest is offset against the interest payable on the loan. back to top
A full offset means that 100% of the funds in your offset account will be deducted from what you owe on your home loan before interest is calculated. A partial offset gives you a reduced interest rate on the part of your home loan equal to the balance of your offset account. And while your money is working hard to reduce the interest you pay, your offset account will also be every bit as accessible as an everyday transaction account. This means you pay less interest on your home loan. Over time these savings can really add up and also reduce the time it takes to pay off your loan. For example, if you have a home loan balance of $200,000 and have $10,000 in your offset account you’ll only pay interest on a home loan balance of $190,000.
An offset account and how they work. An offset account, interest offset account, mortgage offset account and offset home loan are all interchangeable terms. They all describe a separate account which is linked to a loan and which offsets the interest charged to that loan. Hence the general term offset account! Perhaps the easiest way to describe how an offset account works is via an example. Say today you owed $350,000 on your home loan and you had $5000 in your offset account as per the diagram below.
With a mortgage offset account (also known as a home loan offset account), you can shave countless dollars and years from the life of your home loan … but how does it work? When choosing an offset transaction account, look for: 1  No balance limit, so you can keep building your savings and cutting down on your home loan term. 2  An account where 100% of your total balance is offset against your loan. 3  An equal interest rate to your mortgage.