Mini Bio (1). Robert Lee Frost, arguably the greatest American poet of the 20th century, was born in San Francisco, California, on March 26, 1874. His father, William Prescott Frost Jr., was from a Lawrence, Massachusetts, family of Republicans, and his mother, Isabelle Moodie Frost, was an immigrant from Scotland.
Robert Lee Frost was an American poet. He is highly regarded for his realistic depictions of rural life and his command of American colloquial speech. His work frequently employed settings from rural life in New England in the early twentieth century, using them to examine complex social and philosophical themes.
It was abroad that Frost met and was influenced by such contemporary British poets as Edward Thomas, Rupert Brooke, and Robert Graves. While in England, Frost also established a friendship with the poet Ezra Pound, who helped to promote and publish his work.
Robert Frost was born in San Francisco, California, to journalist William Prescott Frost, Jr., and Isabelle Moodie. His mother was of Scottish descent, and his father descended from Nicholas Frost of Tiverton, Devon, England, who had sailed to New Hampshire in 1634 on the Wolfrana.
Robert Frost s poetry has made a remarkable impact upon the literary world, connecting with readers for over ninety years. The poet s lengthy and eventful life began in San Francisco, California, in 1874. His parents had a less-than-perfect marriage. His father was an alcoholic, and died when Robert was only eleven.
Frost's Life and Career. rost was born in San Francisco, where he spent his first eleven years. After the death of his father, a journalist, he moved with his mother and sister to eastern Massachusetts near his paternal grandparents.
Early Years. Robert Frost was born on March 26, 1874 in San Francisco, California. He spent the first 11 years of his life there, until his father, William Prescott Frost Jr., died of tuberculosis. Following his father's passing, Frost moved with his mother and sister Jeanie to the town of Lawrence, Massachusetts.
Robert Lee Frost (March 26, 1874 – January 29, 1963) was an American poet. He was born in San Francisco ,California,U.S. He is well known for his realistic writings of rural life and his use of American informal (slang) speech.