Sea Turtle Habitat and Distribution. Sea turtles are known to be distributed in many places around the world, except the polar regions. They prefer the tropic and sub tropics temperatures. They are found along the coastal regions of sandy beaches. This includes areas of North America, South America, Central America, India, South Africa, and Australia. Some sea turtles are known to live in the colder waters, but it is often due to necessity. For example when they can’t find enough food to survive on in their natural habitat they may venture further than they did in the past to locate it.
There are seven species of sea turtles. They are the leatherback sea turtle, green sea turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, flatback sea turtle and olive ridley sea turtle. Four of the species have been identified as endangered or critically endangered with another two being classed as vulnerable. Sea turtles, along with other turtles and tortoises, are part of the order Testudines. The seven living species of sea turtles are: leatherback sea turtle, green sea turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, flatback sea turtle and olive ridley sea turtle. All species except the leatherback are in the family Cheloniida
A lot is still unknown about the life history of green sea turtles. Habitat: Green sea turtles have ocean water habitats and nesting habitats. Once a green sea turtle hatches and heads into ocean waters, it rarely returns to land. Instead, it feeds on off-shore plant blooms around islands and beaches. Green sea turtles stay in shallow waters off-shore until the breeding season. Diet: Adult green sea turtles are herbivores. The jaw is serrated to help the turtle easily chew their primary food source -- seagrasses and algae. Juvenile green sea turtles are omnivores. They eat a wide variety of plant and animal life, including insects, crustaceans, seagrasses and worms.
Sea Turtle Ocean Habitat. The grace and beauty of a sea turtle in its ocean habitat is a magical experience. Whether boating, snorkeling, or diving, remember that the ocean is home for turtles and other wildlife. Be a Good Mate: Follow responsible boating practices
Description: A green sea turtle's shell (called a carapace) is the largest and most noticeable part of the animal. The shell covers most of the body, except for the flippers and head. Despite its name, a green sea turtle's shell is not always green. Diet: Adult green sea turtles are herbivores. The jaw is serrated to help the turtle easily chew their primary food source -- seagrasses and algae. Juvenile green sea turtles are omnivores. They eat a wide variety of plant and animal life, including insects, crustaceans, seagrasses and worms.
There are seven species of sea turtle: green, hawksbill, leatherback, loggerhead, olive ridley, Kemp’s ridley and flatback. All but the olive ridley and flatback are found in Florida. The six below are found within the US. 1  Green. 2  Hawksbill. 3  Loggerhead. 4  Olive Ridley. 5  Kemp’s Ridley. 
Fast Facts. Size: Kemp's Ridley is the smallest sea turtle at 30 inches long (.762m). The largest sea turtle is the leatherback-an adult can reach over six and a half feet long (over 1.8m). Adult female and male sea turtles are the same size. Weight: Kemp's Ridley weighs between 80-100lbs (36-45 kg). Behavior. Sea turtles spend most of their lives in the water, where not much information can be gathered on their behavior. Most of what is known about sea turtle behavior is obtained by observing hatchlings and females that leave the water to lay eggs.