: a surface-active substance; specifically: a surface-active lipoprotein mixture which coats the alveoli and which prevents collapse of the lungs by reducing the surface tension of pulmonary fluids. 
2 also called pulmonary surfactant. one of certain lipoproteins that reduce the surface tension of pulmonary fluids, allowing the exchange of gases in the alveoli of the lungs and contributing to the elasticity of pulmonary tissue. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.
Surfactant prevents this collapse by reducing the surface tension of the fluids that line the lungs and helping to equalize the pressures between large and small air spaces. Surface tension is a measure of the attraction molecules of a fluid have for each other. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.
Surfactant: A fluid secreted by the cells of the alveoli (the tiny air sacs in the lungs) that serves to reduce the surface tension of pulmonary fluids; surfactant contributes to the elastic properties of pulmonary tissue, preventing the alveoli from collapsing. 
Without normal pulmonary surfactant present, the attractive forces of the water will cause the alveoli to collapse. Pulmonary surfactant is a complex substance in the lungs which reduces the surface tension of water and therefore, prevents the collapse of the alveoli. Surfactant also plays a role in defending the lungs from bacteria and viruses. Background. The surface of the tiny air sacs of the lungs (alveoli), where oxygen goes into the bloodstream and carbon dioxide comes out, is coated in a thin watery layer that contains water and pulmonary surfactant.
Surfactant reduces surface tension, so that the alveoli in the lungs are able to expand. It is essentially a biological detergent. Surfactant reduces surface tension. Without surfactant, the wet surfaces of the alveoli in your lungs would stick together and your lungs would not be able to expand-so, you would not be able to breath.
1. A substance, such as detergent, that is added to a liquid to increase its ability to spread. 2. A substance produced by the tiny air-filled sacs of the lung that reduces the surface tension of the fluids coating the lung. Surfactant helps keep the tiny air sacs from collapsing during normal breathing.
Surfactant reduces the surface tension of fluid in the lungs and helps make the small air sacs in the lungs (alveoli) more stable. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.
Purpose. Surfactant reduces the surface tension of fluid in the lungs and helps make the small air sacs in the lungs (alveoli) more stable. This keeps them from collapsing when an individual exhales. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.