You can usually have a contraceptive injection or start using a diaphragm or cap around six weeks after giving birth. If you used a diaphragm or cap before becoming pregnant, see your GP or contraception (family planning) clinic after the birth to ensure that it still fits correctly. This is because childbirth (and other factors such as weight loss or gain) can mean you need a different size. It's possible to become pregnant again very soon after the birth of a baby, even if you're breastfeeding and even if your periods haven't returned. You ovulate (release an egg) about two weeks before your period arrives, so your fertility may have returned before you realise it.
You can have the contraceptive implant fitted after you have given birth, usually after three weeks: 1  If it is fitted on or before day 21 after the birth, you will be immediately protected against becoming pregnant. 2  If it is fitted after day 21, you will need to use additional contraception for the following seven days. 
You can have an implant put in three weeks (21 days) after you have given birth. If the implant is put in on or before day 21 you will be protected against pregnancy immediately. If the implant is put in later than day 21 you will need to use an additional method of contraception for seven days. You won’t need any stitches. After it has been fitted the doctor or nurse will check your arm to make sure that the implant is in position. You will also be shown how to feel the implant with your fingers, so you can check it is in place. The area may be tender for a day or two and may be bruised and slightly swollen.
An alternative is having a copper IUD fitted up to five days after you had sex. This option isn't as widely available as the emergency contraceptive pill (Cole 2011) , and it can't be fitted any earlier than four weeks after your baby's birth. The intrauterine device (IUD) or coil can be fitted for five years to 10 years, depending on which type you have. You can start using an IUD any time after having a baby, but it is usually inserted from four weeks after the birth. A doctor or nurse will fit it for you.
You can have an implant inserted 21 days after your baby is born (FSRH 2011d, FPA 2011d) . You'll still be able to breastfeed, as only a small amount of progestogen goes through to your breastmilk. Implants are more than 99 per cent effective (FPA 2011d) . The intrauterine device (IUD) or coil can be fitted for five years to 10 years, depending on which type you have. You can start using an IUD any time after having a baby, but it is usually inserted from four weeks after the birth. A doctor or nurse will fit it for you.
Here's a guide to contraception after the birth. It depends on how you're feeding your baby. Your periods will return any time from about six weeks to three months after your baby's birth if you are formula-feeding or combining breast and formula feeds. You are fertile two weeks before you have your period. The intrauterine device (IUD) or coil can be fitted for five years to 10 years, depending on which type you have. You can start using an IUD any time after having a baby, but it is usually inserted from four weeks after the birth. A doctor or nurse will fit it for you.
Six to eight weeks after birth. An intrauterine device (IUD) , also known as a 'coil', or intrauterine system (IUS) can sometimes be fitted within 48 hours of giving birth. If this is not possible then they will usually be fitted six to eight weeks after giving birth. Page last reviewed: 14/07/2015. It's possible to become pregnant again very soon after the birth of a baby, even if you're breastfeeding and even if your periods haven't returned. You ovulate (release an egg) about two weeks before your period arrives, so your fertility may have returned before you realise it.
You can have the contraceptive implant fitted three weeks (21 days) after giving birth. If the contraceptive implant is put in on or before day 21 you will be protected against pregnancy straight away. You can have the contraceptive implant fitted immediately after a miscarriage or abortion and you will be protected from pregnancy straight away. Page last reviewed: June 2015 Next review due: June 2016. Pocket-sized A6 booklet covers all the widely available forms of contraception.
If the implant is put in on any other day you will not be protected against pregnancy for the first seven days after it has been fitted. So you will need to use an additional method of contraception, such as condoms, during this time. I've just had a baby. You won’t need any stitches. After it has been fitted the doctor or nurse will check your arm to make sure that the implant is in position. You will also be shown how to feel the implant with your fingers, so you can check it is in place. The area may be tender for a day or two and may be bruised and slightly swollen.
You can have an implant put in three weeks (21 days) after you have given birth. If the implant is put in on or before day 21 you will be protected against pregnancy immediately. If the implant is put in later than day 21 you will need to use an additional method of contraception for seven days. 