Kefir, keefir, or kephir (/kəˈfir/ kə-FEER), alternatively milk kefir, or bulgaros, búlgaros is a fermented milk drink made with kefir (grains a/yeast bacterial fermentation) starter and has its origins in the North Caucasus. mountains Kefir grains, a symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeasts. Kefir grains are a combination of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts in a matrix of proteins, lipids, and sugars, and this symbiotic matrix, (or SCOBY) forms grains that resemble cauliflower.
Water kefir is made from kefir grains, also known as sugar grains, tibicos, tibi, or Japanese water crystals. The grains make up cultures of various strains of healthy bacteria and yeast, held together in a polysaccharide matrix created by the bacteria. 
This is because kefir is made by fermenting milk with 10 to 20 different types of bacteria and yeasts, where yogurt is usually just fermented with a handful of types; this leads to a higher probiotic count in the final product. There are actually two types of kefir: milk kefir and water kefir. Milk kefir is made from dairy (or non-dairy milks like coconut milk) and water kefir is made from, as the name implies, water.
Kefir, keefir, or kephir (/kəˈfir/ kə-FEER), alternatively milk kefir, or bulgaros, búlgaros is a fermented milk drink made with kefir (grains a/yeast bacterial fermentation) starter and has its origins in the North Caucasus. Mountains it is prepared by inoculating, cow, goat or sheep milk with kefir. grains Kefir grains, a symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeasts. Kefir grains are a combination of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts in a matrix of proteins, lipids, and sugars, and this symbiotic matrix, (or SCOBY) forms grains that resemble cauliflower.
Kefir made from live kefir grains has 35 different strains of beneficial bacteria and yeasts. Kefir isn’t at all like yogurt in that kefir actually colonizes our digestive tracts with this beneficial bacteria and yeast. Kefir is the drink made from the kefir grains and it has the consistency of a drinkable yogurt but is much more tart and is actually effervescent. Upon trying kefir the first time, my 3 year old daughter commented that it tasted like a milk soda!
Fresh kefir grains. Kefir is a popular, health-boosting drink made from the fermentation of kefir grains and milk. The origins of the name come from the Turkish word for pleasure; probably because when drunk daily, kefir promotes health and an overall good feeling. 
The drink is made either with kefir grains or a powdered kefir starter — the grains aren't an actual grain like wheat, but are made of bacteria and yeast. Generally of a thinner consistency than yogurt, kefir is usually sold as a drink, either plain or flavoured. Here are a dozen things you should know about kefir. There are actually two types of kefir: milk kefir and water kefir. Milk kefir is made from dairy (or non-dairy milks like coconut milk) and water kefir is made from, as the name implies, water.
Although it is slightly mucous forming, the mucous has a “clean” quality to it that creates ideal conditions in the digestive tract for the colonization of friendly bacteria. Kefir is made from gelatinous white or yellow particles called “grains.” This makes kefir unique, as no other milk culture forms grains. These grains contain the bacteria/yeast mixture clumped together with casein (milk proteins) and complex sugars. 