I. Primary tissues: Tissues generated from the growth of an apical meristem. Cambium: A lateral meristem constituting a sheet of cells. Growth of these cells increases the girdth of the plant organ involved. Secondary tissues: Tissues generated from the growth of a cambium. Vascular Cambium: A cambium that gives rise to secondary xylem to the inside, and to secondary phloem to the outside. Some Important Definitions:
Save. Primary and secondary growth differ in the parts of the plant involved and the way in which those parts grow. All plants grow primarily. Plants need primary growth to increase in length, growing upward from the ground and extending their roots further into the soil. Only certain types of plants grow secondarily. 
Plant morphology or phytomorphology is the study of the physical form and external structure of plants. This is usually considered distinct from plant anatomy, which is the study of the internal structure of plants, especially at the microscopic level. Plant morphology is useful in the visual identification of plants. 
In some other monocot stems with anomalous secondary growth, a cambium forms, but it produces vascular bundles and parenchyma internally and just parenchyma externally. Some monocot stems increase in diameter due to the activity of a primary thickening meristem, which is derived from the apical meristem. Arising from lateral meristems, secondary growth increases the girth of the plant root or stem, rather than its length. As long as the lateral meristems continue to produce new cells, the stem or root will continue to grow in diameter.
Because this growth usually ruptures the epidermis of the stem or roots, plants with secondary growth usually also develop a cork cambium. The cork cambium gives rise to thickened cork cells to protect the surface of the plant and reduce water loss. Arising from lateral meristems, secondary growth increases the girth of the plant root or stem, rather than its length. As long as the lateral meristems continue to produce new cells, the stem or root will continue to grow in diameter.
Primary growth is the lengthening of the stem and roots. All plant growth occurs by cell division and cell elongation. Cell division occurs primarily in regions of undifferentiated cells known as meristems. Cell division in the apical meristems and subsequent elongation and maturation of the new cells produces primary growth. The other type of growth, secondary growth, is the increase in girth of stems and roots.
The width of a plant, or its girth, is called secondary growth and it arises from the lateral meristems in stems and roots. As with apical meristems, lateral meristems are regions of high cell division activity. However, the cells they make grow outward rather than upward or downward. The lateral meristems that produce secondary growth are called cambiums, which just means a tissue layer that adds to plant growth. The two important ones for secondary growth are the vascular cambium and the cork cambium.
In eudicots, the first root to form is the primary root. It grows straight down and is the dominant root, also known as a taproot. The taproot can produce lateral roots that grow out to the sides. Common eudicots include tomato plants, roses, maple trees, oak trees, and raspberry bushes. The lateral meristems that produce secondary growth are called cambiums, which just means a tissue layer that adds to plant growth. The two important ones for secondary growth are the vascular cambium and the cork cambium.
Secondary Growth in Roots Secondary growth occurs in many roots and usually results in the thickening of the root diameter by the addition ofvascular tissue. Initiation of secondary growth occurs when cells in the residual procambium and parts of the pericyle begin to make periclinal divisions. Only the pericyle cells opposite the xylem points start to make periclinal divisions. The inner layer of cells becomes the vascular cambium
In many vascular plants, secondary growth is the result of the activity of the two lateral meristems, the cork cambium and vascular cambium. Arising from lateral meristems, secondary growth increases the girth of the plant root or stem, rather than its length. As long as the lateral meristems continue to produce new cells, the stem or root will continue to grow in diameter.