Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 
Definition of DOUBLET. 1. : a man's close-fitting jacket worn in Europe especially during the Renaissance. Medical Definition of DOUBLET. 1. : something consisting of two identical or similar parts: as a: a lens consisting of two components b: a spectrum line having two close components. 2. : a set of two identical or similar things; especially: one of nine pairs of microtubules found in cilia and flagella.
Examples of doublets in English. Definition: Two distinct words derived from the same source but by different routes of transmission, such as poison and potion (both from the Latin potio, a drink). Three words of this kind are called triplets: e.g., place, plaza, and piazza (all from the Latin platea, a broad street). 
(plural doublets). 1  a man ’s close-fitting jacket, with or without sleeves. 2  Men in Europe wore doublets from the 1400s to the 1600s. 3  a pair of two similar or equal things; couple. 
He was dressed in a doublet and hose of a violet color, with aiguillettes of the same color, without any other ornaments than the customary slashes, through which the shirt appeared. The Three Musketeers by Dumas, Alexandre View in context. 
noun. ( 1 formerly) a man's close-fitting jacket, with or without sleeves (esp in the phrase doublet and hose). 2  a pair of similar things, esp two words deriving ultimately from the same source, for example reason and ratio or fragile and frail. 
Definition: A doublet is a gemstone sandwich, a gem that's created from layers. The lower, larger portion of a doublet is made from glass or an inexpensive stone; the thinner, more desirable gem is adhered to the top of the inexpensive slice. Opal doublets are common, and should always be disclosed. Buy gems from a retailer you trust, and ask questions before making a purchase.
He was dressed in a doublet and hose of a violet color, with aiguillettes of the same color, without any other ornaments than the customary slashes, through which the shirt appeared. The Three Musketeers by Dumas, Alexandre View in context. 
1 A pair of similar things, in particular two words of the same derivation but having different meanings, for example fashion and faction, cloak and clock. Example sentences. 1  Carroll called the given words doublets, the interposed words links, and the complete series a chain. 