You can take money out of your Roth IRA anytime you want. However, you need to be careful how much you withdraw or you may get stuck with a penalty. In order to make qualified distributions in retirement, you must be at least 59½ years old, and at least five years must have passed since you first began contributing. 
Note that penalty-free does not mean tax-free. All traditional IRA and 401(k) withdrawals require that you pay taxes at ordinary income rates. Contributions to a Roth IRA can be taken out at any time, and its earnings may be withdrawn penalty and tax-free after five years. The same rules apply to a Roth 401(k),but only if the employer plan permits.
It is normally subject to taxes and a 10% early-withdrawal penalty if you’re under age 59½ when you take the money. If you’re a first-time home buyer, however, you can withdraw up to $10,000 in earnings from your Roth IRA without the 10% early-withdrawal penalty, even if you’re under age 59½. When you withdraw money from a Roth IRA, your contributions are counted first, then the conversions, and finally, the earnings. As you mentioned, you can take your contributions tax-free and penalty-free at any time.
That means your account total is $5,272.50. Under Roth IRA rules (check IRS Publication 590 for more information), you can withdraw up to $5,000 without paying taxes on it, and without paying a penalty. Once you dip into your earnings – that $272.50 – the story changes. You can withdraw what you have contributed at anytime, and for any reason. 
This means you can take out your retirement money without penalty, and because Roth earnings are tax-free, you'll have no IRS bill, either. If, however, you opened your Roth IRA less than five years ago, the withdrawal is an early distribution. As with a traditional IRA early withdrawal, a Roth holder can use the first-home exception to avoid the 10 percent penalty but might owe tax on earnings that are withdrawn. 
Penalties on Earnings from Contributions. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution.
But there are a variety of ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty if you meet specific criteria: Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2. [Read: How to Save for Retirement on a Small Salary.]
You can also borrow from your 401(k). Penalty-free Withdrawals from Individual Retirement Plans. Normally, if you withdraw money from a traditional or Roth IRA before you reach age 59-1/2, you would pay a 10% early distribution penalty on the distribution, in addition to any regular income tax due. There is, however, an exception for distributions used to pay qualified higher education expenses
As a general rule, you can withdraw your contributions from a Roth IRA at any time without paying tax or penalty. If you withdraw money from a conversion too soon after that event, and before age 59½, you may incur a penalty. Example: You convert your traditional IRA, with a value of $20,000, to a Roth IRA, paying tax on the entire amount. Two years later, when you are under age 59½, you withdraw $5,000 from the Roth IRA, and the distribution comes from conversion money because you haven’t made any regular contributions to your Roth IRA.
Age 59 and under. You can withdraw contributions you made to your Roth IRA anytime, tax-and penalty-free. However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties.