1-6. TYPES OF NEURONS Neurons in the body can be classified according to structure and function. Classification by structure is based on the number of processes (projections or protrusions) extending from the cell body. Neurons are classified by functions according to the direction in which the neurons transmit impulses. a. Classification of Neurons by Structure. Classifications are as follows: multipolar neurons, bipolar neurons, and unipolar neurons.
1-6. Neurons in the body can be classified according to structure and function. Classification by structure is based on the number of processes (projections or protrusions) extending from the cell body. Neurons are classified by functions according to the direction in which the neurons transmit impulses. a. Classification of Neurons by Structure. Classifications are as follows: multipolar neurons, bipolar neurons, and unipolar neurons.
Neurons are the specialized cells in the central nervous system. Neurons are classified according to structure, shape and function. Each type of neuron has a specific role for the proper functioning of the brain and the spinal cord.
Another type of neurons is the bipolar neurons, each having an axon that transmits signals from the cell body going to the brain and the spinal cord, and dendrites that send signals from the body organs to the cell body. These bipolar neurons are usually found in sensory organs such as the eyes, nose and ears.
One way to classify neurons is by the number of extensions that extend from the neuron's cell body (soma). Bipolar neurons have two processes extending from the cell body (examples: retinal cells, olfactory epithelium cells).
The Neuron. One way to classify neurons is by the number of extensions that extend from the neuron's cell body (soma). Bipolar neurons have two processes extending from the cell body (examples: retinal cells, olfactory epithelium cells). Pseudounipolar cells (example: dorsal root ganglion cells).
Multipolar neurons have many processes that extend from the cell body. However, each neuron has only one axon (examples: spinal motor neurons, pyramidal neurons, Purkinje cells). Neurons can also be classified by the direction that they send information.