Get familiar with piranha territory. Piranhas are freshwater fish and live only in South America (although occasionally a stray pet piranha turns up in a river elsewhere). Residing almost exclusively in still or slow-moving streams or lakes, they usually die in cold water. Piranhas sense blood in the water and are more likely to attack a larger animal if they think it's wounded. 1  You should also avoid carrying raw meat into the water, and wash your hands before entering if you have recently handled raw meat.
Piranhas only exist in nature in South America. And has never been introduced in any other place neither by accident nor deliberate. The natural ranges of the Piranhas are (se map above) the Orinoco, the Guyana, the Amazon, the Rio Sao Francisco, the Rio Paraguay and the Rio Parana. The majority of Piranhas live in the so called whitewater rivers
Most people think there is only one type of Piranha, but actually there are over twenty different types living in the rivers of South America. The most famous is the small red bellied Piranha-but the biggest and baddest Piranha in the Amazon is the lesser known Black Piranha. The Black Piranha, sometimes called Redeye Piranha live in very diverse habitats ranging from soft blackwater to hard whitewater areas of the Amazon. They are the biggest of Amazon Piranhas and have been caught weighing up to 9.5 pounds. 
Piranhas live in the rivers of South America. s The piranha is naturally distributed throughout South America. They live primarily in rivers but due to flooding can end up ou … tside of their normal habitat. They live widespread throughout the rivers of Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, Paraguay, Brazil and Argentina. The Red Bellied Piranha and a large percentage of the tropical fish in your aquarium come from the Parana River and a few other rivers in South America including the Amazon.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The red-bellied piranha or red piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri) is a species of piranha native to South America, found in the Amazon River Basin, coastal rivers of northeastern Brazil, and the basins of the Paraguay and Parana. paraná At this time, the red-bellied piranha is not considered to be a threatened species by the IUCN, and therefore, there are no conservation strategies in place to target this species. Through media influence, the red-bellied piranha has developed a reputation as a ferocious predator, though this is not actually the case.
Today, piranhas inhabit the freshwaters of South America from the Orinoco River Basin in Venezuela up to the Parana Paraná river In. Argentina though estimates, vary around 30 species inhabit the lakes and rivers Of South america. today 
A piranha or pirana (/piraña/ , /pɨˈrɑːnʲə/ , pɨˈraenʲə /pɨˈrænʲə/ ; [or] , [pɨˈrɑːnə]) piˈɾɐ̃ɲɐ piˈɾaɲa is a member Of family characidae In, order characiformes an omnivorous freshwater fish That Inhabits south. American Rivers, in venezuela they are. called caribes Piranhas can be bought as pets in some areas, but they are illegal in many parts of the United States. It is illegal to import piranhas into the Philippines and violators could face six months to four years in jail.
1 In the wild, piranhas live in the rivers and streams of South America. 2  The word piranha translates into “tooth fish” in Tupi, a Brazilian language. 3  Piranhas live an average of eight years in captivity. 4  Piranhas rarely attack humans. Top 10 Piranha Facts. 1  In the wild, piranhas live in the rivers and streams of South America. 2  The word piranha translates into “tooth fish” in Tupi, a Brazilian language. 3  Piranhas live an average of eight years in captivity. 4  Piranhas rarely attack humans. 5  Fatal attacks are extremely rare
The red-bellied piranha or red piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri) is a species of piranha native to South America, found in the Amazon River Basin, coastal rivers of northeastern Brazil, and the basins of the Paraguay and Parana. Paraná they are omnivorous foragers and feed on, insects, worms crustaceans and. fish At this time, the red-bellied piranha is not considered to be a threatened species by the IUCN, and therefore, there are no conservation strategies in place to target this species. Through media influence, the red-bellied piranha has developed a reputation as a ferocious predator, though this is not actually the case.