Amalfi is a town and comune in the province of Salerno, in the region of Campania, Italy, on the Gulf of Salerno. It lies at the mouth of a deep ravine, at the foot of Monte Cerreto (1,315 metres, 4,314 feet), surrounded by dramatic cliffs and coastal scenery. The town of Amalfi was the capital of the maritime republic known as the Duchy of Amalfi, an important trading power in the Mediterranean between 839 and around 1200. In the 1920s and 1930s, Amalfi was a popular holiday destination for the British upper class and aristocracy.
Positano, Italy (CNN) -- Dramatically steep seaside cliffs, quaint multicolored hillside buildings and sweeping views of the sea captivate visitors as they enter scenic Positano, perched along Italy's Amalfi Coast. In addition to Positano's culinary and scenic attractions, the town is rich with history. Positano was once part of the powerful Republic of Amalfi, a rival of Venice as a sea power in the 10th century.
Overlooking the Tyrrhenian Sea, the Amalfi Coast extends in the Gulf of Salerno and includes some of its most famous places, from Positano to Ravello and naturally Amalfi. 
The Amalfi Coast, Italy (la Costiera Amalfitana) is a beautiful and renowned stretch of mountainous coastline south of Naples, in Campania. The southern end of the Bay of Naples stretches out in a steep and rocky peninsula that reaches towards the Isle of Capri. If you're travelling to the Amalfi Coast from Rome or other parts of Italy, there are a number of options for getting to the area: You can take a train to Naples or to Salerno. From Salerno you can get the SITA bus to Amalfi, and then a bus connection onwards if necessary (or take a ferry all the way from Salerno).
The Amalfi Coast (Italian: Costiera Amalfitana) is a stretch of coastline on the southern coast of the Sorrentine Peninsula in the Province of Salerno in Southern Italy. The Amalfi Coast is a popular tourist destination for the region and Italy as a whole, attracting thousands of tourists annually.
Amalfi is the main town of the coast on which it is located, named Costiera Amalfitana (Amalfi Coast), and is today an important tourist destination together with other towns on the same coast, such as Positano, Ravello and others. Amalfi is included in the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The town of Amalfi was the capital of the maritime republic known as the Duchy of Amalfi, an important trading power in the Mediterranean between 839 and around 1200. In the 1920s and 1930s, Amalfi was a popular holiday destination for the British upper class and aristocracy.
Understand [edit]. The Amalfi Coast is a stunning beauty with its steep sloped lemon tree gardens and coloured terrace houses and stunning views and azure sea. It is south east of Naples starting from Sorrento stretching almost to Salerno. 
The Amalfi Coast is known for its production of limoncello liqueur as the area is a known cultivator of lemons, known as sfusato amalfitano in Italian, which are grown in terraced gardens along the entire coast between February and October. The Amalfi Coast is a popular tourist destination for the region and Italy as a whole, attracting thousands of tourists annually.
The Amalfi Coast is a stretch of coastline on the southern coast of the Sorrentine Peninsula in the Province of Salerno in Southern Italy. First of all, whoever answered this didn't even spell Caribbean correctly, but the Caribbean Sea borders the Americas. The Amalfi Coast is in Italy, i.e., Europe.
Positano on the Amalfi Coast. Positano on the Amalfi Coast. If you find Positano too crowded or expensive, you can continue your trip on the Amalfi Coast and you’ll discover Praiano, a fishermen village with an incredible history. From Sorrento to the Amalfi Coast. Once your journey to Capri ends, you can start your adventure on the Amalfi Coast. If you want to do it by car, Sorrento is the start point of SS 145, the shortest road to Positano, the first city