read more. The Doobie Brothers are an American rock group, best known for hit singles like Black Water, China Grove, Listen to the Music, Long Train Runnin', and What a Fool Believes. They have sold over 22 million albums in the United States from the 1970s to the present. 
Long Train Running was sung by The Doobie Brothers, they're a 1970s American rock band (from California), not Sri Lankan =). 
Music video by Josh Turner performing Long Black Train. (C) 2002 MCA Nashville, a Division of UMG Recordings, Inc.  1 Long Black Train by Josh Turner (Google Play • iTunes • AmazonMP3). 2  Music. 3  Standard YouTube License. 
In 1993, the Doobie Brothers version was remixed and charted again in several countries. The song is sometimes titled Long Train Runnin' (Without Love) due to the words without love being sung frequently during the song. The song was covered by Richie Havens in 1976 on the album The End Of The Beginning. The Gipsy Kings provided flamenco guitar on Bananarama's version, using the pseudonym Alma de Noche (Soul of the Night). UK singer Zoe zoë provided backing. vocals
Song's origin [edit]. The tune evolved from an untitled and mostly ad-libbed jam that the Doobies developed onstage years before it was finally recorded. Its working title, according to Johnston, was Rosie Pig Moseley and later Osborn. I didn't want to cut it, Johnston later confessed. The song was covered by Richie Havens in 1976 on the album The End Of The Beginning. The Gipsy Kings provided flamenco guitar on Bananarama's version, using the pseudonym Alma de Noche (Soul of the Night). UK singer Zoe zoë provided backing. vocals
Long Black Train  is a song written and recorded by American country music singer Josh Turner. It was released in May 2003 as the second single and title from his debut album of the same name. Having spent more than thirty weeks on the Billboard country charts, Long Black Train reached a peak of #13 in early 2004. On 06/01/2006 it was certified Gold by the RIAA.
Turner told The Boot that the song was inspired by a vision that he had of a long, black train running down a track in the middle of nowhere. Turner said, I could see people standing out to the sides of this track watching this train go by. It was released in May 2003 as the second single and title from his debut album of the same name. Having spent more than thirty weeks on the Billboard country charts, Long Black Train reached a peak of #13 in early 2004. On 06/01/2006 it was certified Gold by the RIAA.
It was included on the band's 1973 album The Captain and Me and released as a single, becoming a top 10 hit on the US Billboard Hot 100, peaking at number 8. It was covered by Italian band Traks in 1982 and was then by English girl group Bananarama in 1991. The song was covered by Richie Havens in 1976 on the album The End Of The Beginning. The Gipsy Kings provided flamenco guitar on Bananarama's version, using the pseudonym Alma de Noche (Soul of the Night). UK singer Zoe zoë provided backing. vocals
Sometimes they come right away, and sometimes it's like pulling teeth. We played 'Long Train Runnin'' for three years before it got recorded, and it got called several different names, and most of the time I would make up the words as we were playing the song. Randy Bachman has implied that The Doobie Brothers lifted the guitar riff of this song from the Bachman-Turner Overdrive song  Let It Ride .. According to Bachman, in 1972 The Doobie Brothers were sharing a dressing room with BTO for a show at The Warehouse in New Orleans, which is when they wrote Let It Ride..
Doobie Brothers guitarist and lead singer Tom Johnston wrote this song, which they played live for three years before recording. Johnston told us: Generally I write the music first, and sometimes I have a devil of a time getting the words. Randy Bachman has implied that The Doobie Brothers lifted the guitar riff of this song from the Bachman-Turner Overdrive song  Let It Ride .. According to Bachman, in 1972 The Doobie Brothers were sharing a dressing room with BTO for a show at The Warehouse in New Orleans, which is when they wrote Let It Ride..