Aileen /ai-leen/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced eye-LEEN. It is of Norman origin. Scottish variant of Eileen, which possibly means bird in Latin. Also variant of Evelyn. Kreatif forms: Aiaileen, Aileenai. Aileen ▲ is pronounced similarly to Eilwen, Isleen, Oleen, Wileen and Willeen. Other suggested similar baby names are Aireen, Aleena ▲ and Arleen ▼ . These names tend to be less commonly used than Aileen.
Kaileen is an uncommon given name for women. Kaileen is also a rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is an analysis of the usage of the girl name Kaileen and corresponding names. Popular related forms of Kaileen (outside Top 1000) are Kailyn (#511 the previous year) , Kaylin (#547) , Kaelyn (#574) , Kaylynn (#642) , Kaelynn (#999) , Kaylyn, Kaylan, Kalyn, Kayleen and Kaylen.
[ syll. kai-lee(n) , ka-ile-en ] The baby girl name Kaileen is pronounced K EY ayL IY-N †. Kaileen is of Old Greek origin and it is used largely in the English language. Kaileen is a variation of Kaitlin (English). A variation of Kaileen is Kaileena. Kaileen is infrequently used as a baby name for girls. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. In 2012, out of the group of girl names directly linked to Kaileen, Kaitlin was the most commonly used.
5 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME. You either enjoy great success or suffer abject misery. The solution is service to others. Use your leadership abilities for humanity and not for self-glorification.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it.
Aileen is a very prominent first name for women (#685 out of 4276, Top 16%) but an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Aileen for girls. Aileen reached its apex position of #315 in the U.S. in the 1920s, and is at #562 currently. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014). Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Aileen and corresponding names. Aileen ▲ is pronounced similarly to Eilwen, Isleen, Oleen, Wileen and Willeen. Other suggested similar baby names are Aireen, Aleena ▲ and Arleen ▼ . These names tend to be less commonly used than Aileen.
Kaileen /kai-leen/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of American derivation. Kaileen is a version of Kaylin (American): variation of Caitlin, Kayla. Compare surname Kaullen. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is an analysis of the usage of the girl name Kaileen and corresponding names. Popular related forms of Kaileen (outside Top 1000) are Kailyn (#511 the previous year) , Kaylin (#547) , Kaelyn (#574) , Kaylynn (#642) , Kaelynn (#999) , Kaylyn, Kaylan, Kalyn, Kayleen and Kaylen.
Greek Meaning: The name Kaylee is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kaylee is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Kaylee is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaylee is: Pure. English Meaning: The name Kaylee is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kaylee is: Pure. ' Variant of Kay and Kayla 'keeper of the keys; pure.
Meaning: The American name Kaileen means-a form of Kaitlin. Rating: 
List of Irish baby names, Irish baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Irish names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Irish baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Keleen in Irish origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. © Copyright 2015 Babynology.