Point of Service (POS): A type of plan where you pay less if you use doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers that belong to the plan’s network. Preferred Provider Organization (PPO): A type of health plan where you pay less if you use providers in the plan’s network. You can use doctors, hospitals, and providers outside of the network without a referral for an additional cost. Get more information on what you should know about provider networks (PDF) .
Point-of-Service Plans (POS). A POS is a type of managed care plan that is a hybrid of HMO and PPO plans. Like an HMO, participants designate an in-network physician to be their primary care provider. But like a PPO, patients may go outside of the provider network for health care services. 
Point of Service (POS) Plans. A type of plan in which you pay less if you use doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers that belong to the plan’s network. POS plans also require you to get a referral from your primary care doctor in order to see a specialist.
A point-of-service plan (POS) is a type of managed care plan that is a hybrid of HMO and PPO plans. Like an HMO, participants designate an in-network physician to be their primary care provider. But like a PPO, patients may go outside of the provider network for health care services. 
Point-of-service plan (POS). The POS plan is like a combination of the HMO and PPO plans. You are required to designate an in-network physician to be your primary health care provider. Let Insurance.com help you find affordable health insurance now. Health maintenance organizations (HMOs), preferred provider organizations (PPOs), and point-of-service plans (POS) are all types of managed health care. The purpose of managed care is to provide members with access to a comprehensive system of medical care that offers savings and encourages quality service
A Point of Service (POS) healthcare plan is a type of managed health insurance plan. It offers certain flexibilities that Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) do not. POS health care plans recommend choosing a primary care doctor from an approved list of providers. An individual's doctor is often able to assist her or him with selecting an insurance plan. POS healthcare plans are designed to provide the most effective and efficient patient services at the lowest costs possible.
POS plans A Point of Service (POS) plan is a type of managed healthcare system that combines characteristics of the HMO and the PPO. Like an HMO, you pay no deductible and usually only a minimal co-payment when you use a healthcare provider within your network. 
A point of service plan, is a type of managed care health insurance plan in the United States. It combines characteristics of the health maintenance organization (HMO) and the preferred provider organization (PPO). The POS is based on a managed care foundation---lower medical costs in exchange for more limited choice. But POS health insurance does differ from other managed care plans. Enrollees in a POS plan are required to choose a primary care physician from within the health care network; this PCP becomes their point of service. The PCP may make referrals outside the network, but with lesser compensation offered by the patient's health insurance company
POS (Point of Service)Health Insurance Plan. POS is a managed care plan that combines the lower cost of HMO with the freedom of choice of a PPO. It is often referred to as an HMO with a point-of-service option. Access to health care providers: Like an HMO, you are required to choose your primary care physician from within the health care network. 