Standard Adult Pristiq Dosage. The starting dosage for Pristiq for adults is 50 mg once daily to be taken with or without food. This goes for all medical conditions that the drug is intended to treat. Sometimes, the dose may be increased up to 400mg, although there is no proof that a higher dose can bring more benefits. In fact, taking more than 50 mg per day of Pristiq may be dangerous as it has been associated with effects that are more adverse than therapeutic.
The FDA approved recommended starting and maintenance dose for desvenlafaxine is 50 mg daily, while venlafaxine XR requires titration from 37.5 mg daily to the maintenance dose of 150 - 225 mg daily. When desvenlafaxine 50 mg and 100 mg daily were compared to placebo, the 50 mg dose had a remission rate significantly higher than placebo in only one of two studies.
The recommended starting dosage of Pristiq ® (desvenlafaxine succinate) is a 50 mg tablet once a day to treat depression. (Click Pristiq Dosage for more information on using the 50 mg tablets for treating depression. This article also provides tips on effectively using this antidepressant and lists other factors that may affect your dosage.). Advertisement. 6 Ways Dogs Help People With Depression.
Mice received desvenlafaxine succinate at dosages up to 500/300 mg/kg/day (dosage lowered after 45 weeks of dosing). The 300 mg/kg/day dose is 15 times a human dose of 100 mg/day on a mg/m2 basis. Rats received desvenlafaxine succinate at dosages up to 300 mg/kg/day (males) or 500 mg/kg/day (females). The highest dose is 29 (males) or 48 (females) times a human dose of 100 mg/day on a mg/m2 basis.
Desvenlafaxine is marketed as “an SNRI with a starting dose that is the proven effective dose” while venlafaxine XR requires titration to reach the maximum daily recommended dose of 225 mg. When desvenlafaxine 50 mg and 100 mg daily were compared to placebo, the 50 mg dose had a remission rate significantly higher than placebo in only one of two studies.
The single-dose pharmacokinetics of desvenlafaxine are linear and dose-proportional in a dose range of 100 to 600 mg/day. The mean terminal half-life, t 1/2, is approximately 11 hours. With once-daily dosing, steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved within approximately 4-5 days. Rats received desvenlafaxine succinate at dosages up to 300 mg/kg/day (males) or 500 mg/kg/day (females). The highest dose is 29 (males) or 48 (females) times a human dose of 100 mg/day on a mg/m2 basis.
How to Take PRISTIQ. Most people start with a once-daily 50-mg dose of PRISTIQ (taken with or without food). Your doctor may keep you on your starting dose throughout your treatment. Talk to your doctor about any health conditions you may have, as your dose might be affected. PRISTIQ should be taken at the same time each day and always swallowed whole, since the tablets are time released.
The recommended dose for PRISTIQ is 50 mg once daily, with or without food. In clinical studies, doses of 50 mg to 400 mg per day were shown to be effective, although no additional benefit was demonstrated at doses greater than 50 mg per day and adverse reactions and discontinuations were more frequent at higher doses. PRISTIQ® (desvenlafaxine) Extended-Release Tablets are available as 50 and 100 mg tablets. 50 mg, light pink, square pyramid tablet debossed with “W” over “50” on the flat side. 100 mg, reddish-orange, square pyramid tablet debossed with “W” over “10
Pristiq is the brand name for desvenlafaxine, a prescription drug used to treat depression. It is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Pristiq affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. A: Pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is a serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorder. The most common side effects with Pristiq are constipation, decreased sexual desire, diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, insomnia, stomach upset, headache and dry mouth.