An Investigation of the Components of Moral Intensity Bev Marshall Philip Dewe ABSTRACT. While there is considerable interest in the topic of business ethics, much of the research moves towards measuring components with a view to predicting ethical behaviour. This result is investigated further in the discussion. Another important result is that the components of moral intensity as theorised by Jones (1991) did not emerge in the rationale of the respondents.
US Sentencing Commission Guidelines for Organizations. Definition. First the offense is given an offense level (generally between 6 and 38). Each offense level has a base fine associated with it ranging from $5,000 to $72.5 million Next a judge gives the company a culpability score. 
What is Moral Intensity. 1. The construct that captures the extent of an issue related to moral imperative in a situation (Jones, 1991). This construct will determine whether the issue faced by individuals in an organization includes the moral dilemma.
Moral Intensity Moral intensity relates to the issue itself and to every unique situation Shaub (1997). Consequently Jones (1991, p372) described moral intensity as being “a construct that captures the extent of issue-related moral imperative in a situation”. From the web site, Lev Lafeyette : Moral intensity is the degree that people see an issue as an ethical one. Influences on moral intensity include magnitude of consequences, social consequence, concentration of effect, temporal immediacy and proximity. The magnitude of consequences is the anticipated level of impact of the outcome of a given action
Show more usage examples... It was not a moral issue, but an ethical issue and required a lot of thought and planning to figure out a solution. 9 people found this helpful. You should always make sure you break down any ethical issue and be on the right side of the disagreement. 11 people found this helpful. When considering this problem, lawyers may do well to ignore the letter of the law and realize that it is, at its heart, an ethical issue
Making the world better, one answer at a time. ethical issue intensity can be define as perceive relevance or importance of an ethical issue. it reflects the ethical sensitivity of the individual or group triggering the ethical decision process. It is not an ethical issue. The real issue is the federal governments point of view and each of the 50 States that form the United States of America. Is it ethical for the Fed … eral Government to decide everything for the individual citizen.