Sparks begin jumping from one part of the foil to another, or from the foil to the microwave itself. These sparks can cause a fire and ruin your microwave oven, to say nothing of your poor baked potato. Conventional ovens do not use microwaves, but rather just heat up the foil. Aluminum won't catch fire no matter how hot you get it, although it will eventually melt. But it is unlikely that your conventional oven will ever become that hot. 
Aluminum Foil is Flammable – Okay, maybe this is common knowledge, but I admit that I didn’t know that aluminum foil can catch on fire. You should never allow aluminum foil in such to come in direct contact with a heating element because doing so could get it hot enough to catch on fire. You can use them to line the crumb tray, as long as it isn’t too close to the element where it might melt or catch fire, or line a baking tray. If you place a toaster oven liner on your crumb tray, watch it closely the first time you cook with it.
The microwave oven is one of the great inventions of the 20th century -- you can find them in millions of homes and offices around the world. At one time or another, we've all been told not to use metal products, especially aluminum foil, when cooking­ with a microwave oven. If these sparks hit something else in the oven, perhaps a piece of wax paper, you'll probably be reaching for the fire extinguisher. While it's highly unlikely that a small piece of foil is going to cause your microwave oven to totally explode, it could cause a fire.
05-15-2005, 03:05 PM. Anecdotally, I've used aluminum foil on my drip pans for years and have never had an incident of fire. It would seem to me that if you didn't change the foil when the gunk started to collect, then you may ignite the gunk but that doesn't have anything to do with using foil. That may be what it will catch on fire is intended to mean, since the effect is much the same. Sometimes I'll broil a steak in the oven, in a 'pan' that I make from foil. The grease from the steak will ignite, causing the foil to melt.
Read The Manual – Before you consider using aluminum foil in a toaster oven, read the manual to make sure you can, and how you can. If the manual does not answer any questions you have about how to use foil in your toaster oven, contact the manufacturer for clarification. You can use them to line the crumb tray, as long as it isn’t too close to the element where it might melt or catch fire, or line a baking tray. If you place a toaster oven liner on your crumb tray, watch it closely the first time you cook with it.
Your oven can catch fire for a few reasons: 1  If you are cooking something with a lot of fat and grease, it can splatter and cause a flame. 2  If you are baking, the batter could overflow, drip to the bottom and start a small fire. 3  Sometimes food scraps or other items might be left in your oven, and they could catch fire. 
Best Answer: Because the properties of aluminium cause it to reflect and deflect heat rather than absorbing it. If it doesn't absorb the heat then it won't overheat and catch on fire. Source(s): ♫Damage♫ · 8 years ago. 
USING FOIL IN OVENS....... I need some advice on using foil in my oven. I have a new oven and read the instructions to adjust the timer on it and came across a paragraph which said that you should not use foil in the oven or when using the grill, as it will cause the oven/grill to catch fire!! Something to do with the foil causing the oven to get too hot
Join Date: May 2001. Anecdotally, I've used aluminum foil on my drip pans for years and have never had an incident of fire. It would seem to me that if you didn't change the foil when the gunk started to collect, then you may ignite the gunk but that doesn't have anything to do with using foil. I've also used foil in an oven under pans, over turkeys, and as a baking sheet for cookies and have never had an incident of failure of the aluminum. They tell not to be this because the foil in conjunction with oil or fat can catch fire more easily. Fats and oils that collect in the bottom of the bowl is less likely to vaporize and flame than it is if it is spread over a convoluted, multiple layered surface of the foil.