Trimebutine is a drug with antimuscarinic and weak mu opioid agonist effects. The major product from drug metabolism of trimebutine in human beings is nortrimebutine, which comes from removal of one of the methyl groups attached to nitrogen. Trimebutine exerts its effects in part due to causing a premature activation of phase III of the migrating motor complex in the digestive tract. Both Trimebutine and its metabolite are commercially available
Pregnancy: The use of trimebutine by pregnant women is not recommended. If you become pregnant while taking this medication, contact your doctor immediately. Breast-feeding: It is not known if trimebutine passes into breast milk. Do not give this medication to anyone else, even if they have the same symptoms as you do. It can be harmful for people to take this medication if their doctor has not prescribed it. The adult recommended dose consists of up to 600 mg daily taken in 3 divided doses (200 mg 3 times daily) before meals.
The maleic acid salt of trimebutine is marketed under the trademark of Debridat, Recutin, Polybutin, or Modulon for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome and other gastrointestinal disorders. The major product from drug metabolism of trimebutine in human beings is nortrimebutine, which comes from removal of one of the methyl groups attached to nitrogen. Trimebutine exerts its effects in part due to causing a premature activation of phase III of the migrating motor complex in the digestive tract. Both Trimebutine and its metabolite are commercially available
Debridat® is an international brand name for trimebutine maleate, an antispasmodic used to treat irritable bowel syndrome. Generic Name: Trimebutine. Debridat® is an international brand name for trimebutine maleate, an antispasmodic used to treat irritable bowel syndrome. This agent works by helping to slow down and normalize the movements within the gut.
show more I was given this medication from my doctor for problems i was having with my stomach and not being able to eat any foods without feeling really sick and what not. Anyways I was just wondering if anyone else has ever used it, It is called TRIMEBUTINE and if any of u have used it, what kind of side effects did u... side fx adverse effects of mild to moderate nature occurred in 7% of the patients treated with trimebutine. No single side effect occurred in more than 1.8% of the patients and some of these might have been related to the patients' conditions rather than the medication.
Clinically, trimebutine has proved to be effective in the treatment of both acute and chronic abdominal pain in patients with functional bowel disorders, especially irritable bowel syndrome, at doses ranging from 300 to 600 mg/day. It is also effective in children presenting with abdominal pain. 
Next. I was given this medication from my doctor for problems i was having with my stomach and not being able to eat any foods without feeling really sick and what not. Anyways I was just wondering if anyone else has ever used it, It is called TRIMEBUTINE and if any of u have used it, what kind of side effects did u... side fx adverse effects of mild to moderate nature occurred in 7% of the patients treated with trimebutine. No single side effect occurred in more than 1.8% of the patients and some of these might have been related to the patients' conditions rather than the medication.
Trimebutine belongs to the class of medications called spasmolytics. It is used to treat irritable bowel syndrome (spastic colon). This condition is caused by overactive movements of the bowels. Trimebutine works by slowing down or normalizing the abnormal movements of the bowel. Do not give this medication to anyone else, even if they have the same symptoms as you do. It can be harmful for people to take this medication if their doctor has not prescribed it. The adult recommended dose consists of up to 600 mg daily taken in 3 divided doses (200 mg 3 times daily) before meals.