Pertussis-containing vaccine (whooping cough vaccine) has been used routinely in pregnant women in the UK since October 2012, and the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is carefully monitoring its safety. Whenever you have the whooping cough vaccine, your baby will still need to be vaccinated according to the normal NHS vaccination schedule when they reach two months old. Babies are protected against whooping cough by the 5-in-1 vaccine.
Vaccination during pregnancy can protect newborns from contracting whooping cough until they are old enough to be routinely vaccinated against whooping cough from six weeks of age. The whooping cough vaccine is safe for you and your unborn baby. Vaccination during pregnancy is recommended by Australia’s National Health and Medical Research Council in the Australian Immunisation Handbook (10th Edition). Download the fact sheet about the whooping cough vaccine program for pregnant women. Pregnant women should have their whooping cough vaccination early in the third trimester (between 28 and 32 weeks), but it can be given any time during the third trimester up to delivery. Newborn babies (up to six weeks of age) are too young to receive their first immunisatio
How often should pregnant women get the vaccine? The antibodies you develop after vaccination decline over time so you need to get the vaccine again in your next pregnancy. You should get whooping cough vaccine during every pregnancy so that high levels of these antibodies are passed to each of your babies in the womb. The antibodies you pass to your baby in the womb decline rapidly in the first six months of life so it is important your baby gets the routine childhood vaccines (which include whooping cough vaccine) on time at 2, 4 and 6 months.
Talk to your doctor today about getting free whooping cough vaccine in your third trimester. The immunity you get from the whooping cough vaccine fades over time so you need to be vaccinated during each pregnancy at around 28 weeks. It is also important that those who will be closest to your baby in the first weeks of life also receive a whooping cough vaccine. The free whooping cough vaccine during pregnancy is the best way to protect newborns from day one with studies showing that it is more than 90 per cent effective in preventing whooping cough in infants.
Whooping cough vaccine is offered to all children n as part of the 6 in 1 vaccine at 2, 4 and 6 months of age n at 4-5 years of age (4 in 1 vaccine) n in 1st year of second level school (Tdap vaccine)All children should get these vaccines on time to protect them and babies too young to be vaccinated. The antibodies you pass to your baby in the womb decline rapidly in the first six months of life so it is important your baby gets the routine childhood vaccines (which include whooping cough vaccine) on time at 2, 4 and 6 months.
It is important for women to get the whooping cough vaccine in the third trimester of every pregnancy. Vaccines are the best way to prevent this disease. There are 2 different whooping cough vaccines. Both vaccines combine protection against whooping cough, tetanus and diphtheria, but they are for different age groups: 1  Tdap: for everyone 11 years and older, including pregnant women. You should get the whooping cough vaccine while pregnant to pass protection to your baby. Early, short-term protection is critical. Your baby will not get her first whooping cough vaccine until she is 2 months old.
The amount of whooping cough antibodies in your body decreases over time. When you get the vaccine during one pregnancy, your antibody levels will not stay high enough to provide enough protection for future pregnancies. You should get the whooping cough vaccine while pregnant to pass protection to your baby. Early, short-term protection is critical. Your baby will not get her first whooping cough vaccine until she is 2 months old.
It is important for you to get a whooping cough vaccine during each pregnancy so that each of your babies gets the greatest number of protective antibodies from you and the best protection possible against this disease. You should get the whooping cough vaccine while pregnant to pass protection to your baby. Early, short-term protection is critical. Your baby will not get her first whooping cough vaccine until she is 2 months old.