Step 2: Roast or grill the tenderloin. Roast: Browning the tenderloin first is optional, but it does caramelize the outside and lock in the juices. In a large skillet heat olive oil over medium-high heat. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
Put the tenderloins on a rack in a roasting pan, and roast them in a 450°F oven. After about 15 minutes, check the internal temperature with a probe thermometer. For a tenderloin that's medium-rare, look for an internal temperature of 120°F. For medium, the internal temperature should be 125°F. Beef tenderloin is a great option for Christmas, New Years Eve, an indulgent Sunday dinner, or any special occasion meal, and it's easier to cook than you might think. In this video, you'll learn how to make a perfectly roasted beef tenderloin.
Preheat the oven to 475 degrees F. Place the tenderloin on a roasting rack. Sprinkle generously with kosher salt and sugar, which will deepen the savory flavors. Press the crushed peppercorns all over the surface of the meat. Insert a meat thermometer and place in the oven until the beef registers 120 to 125 degrees F for medium-rare/rare. Beef will probably cook in 20 to 25 minutes depending on its temp before it goes in the oven. 
Roast the tenderloin until an instant-read meat thermometer indicates an internal temperature of 135 degrees for medium rare or 145 degrees for medium. A two to three pound tenderloin will take 30 to 40 minutes to reach medium rare and 45 to 50 minutes to reach medium. Deglaze the pan, if you want to serve the tenderloin au jus. Stir in 1/4 to 1/2 cup of quality consomme consommé or beef broth into the roasting. Pan scrape the pan drippings off the bottom of the pan as you bring the broth to a. Boil heat the liquid for several minutes to reduce it and concentrate the. flavors
1 Place the beef in the pan and sear, turning occasionally, until golden brown all over, about 10 minutes. 2  Transfer to a 13-by-9-inch baking dish and set aside until the surface of the beef is no longer hot, about 15 minutes. 3  Meanwhile, make the butter mixture. 1 2 Heat a large frying pan over medium-high heat until just starting to smoke. 2  Place the beef in the pan and sear, turning occasionally, until golden brown all over, about 10 minutes. 3
Start with beef tenderloin steaks cut 3/4 inch to 1 inch thick (1 inch for grilling). Trim fat from steaks. Season as desired. Timings below are based on meat removed directly from the refrigerator. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
1 Heat vegetable oil in a large ovenproof skillet over high heat. 2  Place beef in the skillet; cook until brown on all sides, 5 to 8 minutes per side. 3  Reduce heat to medium and stir in 1 tablespoon butter, shallots, and a pinch of salt; cook until shallots are soft and translucent, 5 to 7 minutes. 1 Roast in the preheated oven until meat is medium rare, about 45 minutes. 2  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 130 degrees F (54 degrees C). 3  Transfer meat to a plate and loosely tent with foil. 4  Set skillet over high heat and bring pan juices to a boil.
Do this especially if you've never cooked tenderloin before, or if you're only serving a few people. A whole beef tenderloin is about 6 pounds (2.72 kg), or enough for about 10 people. 1  Place one cut portion of tenderloin in the freezer or refrigerator to cook later. Take the beef tenderloin out of the oven and let it sit for about 15 minutes before carving. The meat will continue to cook even after taken out of the oven. But most importantly, letting the meat rest will ensure a juicier tenderloin when you finally do cut into it. 1  Cooking meat causes its muscles to contract.
The best way to cook beef tenderloin is a two-step process: sear, then roast. That way, the tenderloin gets a nice crusty brown exterior without overcooking inside. Use enough vegetable oil to just cover the skillet, and heat it over medium-high heat. Pat the tenderloins dry, and then season with salt. Beef tenderloin is a great option for Christmas, New Years Eve, an indulgent Sunday dinner, or any special occasion meal, and it's easier to cook than you might think. In this video, you'll learn how to make a perfectly roasted beef tenderloin.