A flame test is an analytic procedure used in chemistry to detect the presence of certain elements, primarily metal ions, based on each element's characteristic emission spectrum. The test involves introducing a sample of the element or compound to a hot, non-luminous flame, and observing the color of the flame that results.
The flame test carried out on a copper halide. The characteristic bluish-green color of the flame is due to the copper. Different flame types of Bunsen Burner depending on air flow through the valve: 1. air valve closed. 2. air valve nearly fully closed. 3. air valve semi-opened. 4. air valve maximally opened. The test involves introducing a sample of the element or compound to a hot, non-luminous flame, and observing the color of the flame that results.
flame test. flame test, test used in the identification of certain metals. It is based on the observation that light emitted by any element gives a unique spectrum when passed through a spectroscope. When a salt of the metal is introduced into a Bunsen burner flame, the metallic ion produces characteristic color in the flame
Flame Test Introduction. The flame test is used to visually determine the identity of an unknown metal or metalloid ion based on the characteristic color the salt turns the flame of a Bunsen burner. The heat of the flame excites the electrons of the metals ions, causing them to emit visible light.
FLAME TESTS This page describes how to do a flame test for a range of metal ions, and briefly describes how the flame colour arises. Flame tests are used to identify the presence of a relatively small number of metal ions in a compound. Not all metal ions give flame colours. For Group 1 compounds, flame tests are usually by far the easiest way of identifying which metal you have got. For other metals, there are usually other easy methods which are more reliable-but the flame test can give a useful hint as to where to look.
The color of flames in general also depends on temperature; see flame color. The test involves introducing a sample of the element or compound to a hot, non-luminous flame, and observing the color of the flame that results. The idea of the test is that sample atoms evaporate and since they are hot, they emit light when being in flame
Flame tests are useful because gas excitations produce a signature line emission spectrum for an element. In comparison, incandescence produces a continuous band of light with a peak dependent on the temperature of the hot object. Because each element has an exactly defined line emission spectrum, scientists are able to identify them by the color of flame they produce. For example, copper produces a blue flame, lithium and strontium a red flame, calcium an orange flame, sodium a yellow flame, and barium a green flame.
Metals change the colour of a flame when they are heated in it. Different metals give different colours to the flame, so flame tests can be used to identify the presence of a particular metal in a sample. This is how you would carry out a typical flame test: 1  dip a clean flame test loop in the sample solution. 2  hold the flame test loop at the edge of a bunsen burner flame. 
1 A flame test is performed by introducing a sample into the blue flame of a bunsen burner and noting any change in the colour of the flame. 2  Flame tests can be used to detect the presence of some metallic elements in salts. 1 Flame tests can be used to detect the presence of some metallic elements in salts. 2  The heat of the bunsen burner's flame causes electrons in the element to move from their lower energy ground state to a higher energy excited state.
The Flame Test The flame test is a qualitative test used in chemistry to help determine the identity or possible identity of a metal or metalloid ion found in an ionic compound. If the compound is placed in the flame of a gas burner, there may be a characteristic color given off that is visible to the naked eye. 