In the chemical sciences, methylation denotes the addition of a methyl group to a substrate or the substitution of an atom or group by a methyl group. Methylation is a form of alkylation with a methyl group, rather than a larger carbon chain, replacing a hydrogen atom. In biological systems, methylation is catalyzed by enzymes; such methylation can be involved in modification of heavy metals, regulation of gene expression, regulation of protein function, and RNA processing. Methylation of heavy metals can also occur outside of biological systems.
DNA methylation can stably alter the expression of genes in cells as cells divide and differentiate from embryonic stem cells into specific tissues. The resulting change is normally permanent and unidirectional, preventing a cell from reverting to a stem cell or converting into a different cell type. DNA methylation suppresses the expression of endogenous retroviral genes and other harmful stretches of DNA that have been incorporated into the host genome over time. DNA methylation also forms the basis of chromatin structure, which enables a single cell to grow into multiple organs or perform multiple functions.
DNA methylation. DNA methylation is a biochemical process involving the addition of a methyl group to the cytosine or adenine DNA nucleotides. DNA methylation stably alters the expression of genes in cells as cells divide and differentiate from embryonic stem cells into specific tissues
The different modified forms of cytosine along with the corresponding enzymes responsible for each modification are shown. 5-methylcytosine-based DNA methylation occurs by the covalent addition of a methyl (CH 3) group at the 5-carbon of the cytosine ring resulting in 5-methylcytosine (5-mC). Equally important and coupled with DNA methylation is DNA demethylation, the removal of a methyl group. The demethylation process is necessary for epigenetic reprogramming of genes and is also directly involved in many important disease mechanisms such as tumor progression.
DNA methylation is a process by which methyl groups are added to DNA. Methylation modifies the function of the DNA, typically acting to suppress gene transcription. DNA methylation suppresses the expression of endogenous retroviral genes and other harmful stretches of DNA that have been incorporated into the host genome over time. DNA methylation also forms the basis of chromatin structure, which enables a single cell to grow into multiple organs or perform multiple functions.
n. The modification of a DNA base by the addition of a methyl group (CH 3). DNA methylation of cytosines in particular regions of a gene can cause that gene's suppression.
DNA methylation. noun. The modification of a DNA base by the addition of a methyl group (CH 3). DNA methylation of cytosines in particular regions of a gene can cause that gene's suppression. 
Medical Definition of METHYLATION. : introduction of the methyl group into a chemical compound; especially: dna methylation. — meth·yl·ate \ˈmeth-ə-ˌlāt\ transitive verb, meth·yl·at·ed meth·yl·at·ing.
Medical Definition of DNA METHYLATION. : the enzymatically controlled methylation of a nucleotide base (as cytosine in eukaryotes) in a molecule of DNA that plays a role in suppressing gene expression. What made you want to look up DNA methylation? 