Viruses spread in many ways; viruses in plants are often transmitted from plant to plant by insects that feed on plant sap, such as aphids; viruses in animals can be carried by blood-sucking insects. These disease-bearing organisms are known as vectors. Influenza viruses are spread by coughing and sneezing. Many viruses can be synthesized de novo (from scratch) and the first synthetic virus was created in 2002. Although somewhat of a misconception, it is not the actual virus that is synthesized, but rather its DNA genome (in case of a DNA virus), or a cDNA copy of its genome (in case of RNA viruses).
Influenza A viruses are found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, whales, horses and seals. Influenza B viruses circulate widely only among humans. Influenza A viruses are divided into subtypes based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: the hemagglutinin (H) and the neuraminidase (N). All known subtypes of influenza A viruses have been found among birds, except subtype H17N10 and H18N11 which have only been found in bats. Below is a table showing the different hemagglutinin and neuraminidase subtypes and the species in which they have been detected.
Ebola viruses are found in several African countries. Ebola was first discovered in 1976 near the Ebola River in what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Since then, outbreaks have appeared sporadically in Africa. The natural reservoir host of Ebola virus remains unknown. 
West Nile virus is a mosquito-borne disease that can cause encephalitis, a brain inflammation. WNV is closely related to St. Louis encephalitis virus (SLEV) which is found in the United States and to Kunjin virus (KV) which is found in Australia, some Western Pacific islands and parts of South East Asia. West Nile virus was first detected in North America in 1999 in New York, and in Pennsylvania in 2000. Prior to that it had only been found in Africa, Eastern Europe, and West Asia. Infected mosquitoes pass the virus onto birds, animals and people.
RNA Can Also Be Found ... ... in the bacterial genome and also in viruses. There are also RNA viruses where the principal genetic material is RNA, and not DNA. It is usually single-stranded, but double-stranded forms exist too. Where RNA is Found. Cell Nucleus. Here RNA comes into existence as the newly created messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules known as primary transcripts or pre-mRNA. It undergoes some modification before being transported out into the cytoplasm.
Viruses are found on or in just about every material and environment on Earth from soil to water to air. They're basically found anywhere there are cells to infect. Viruses have evolved to infect every form of life, from animal to plant and from fungi to bacteria. However, viruses tend to be somewhat picky about what type of cells they infect.
It carries this information from DNA, which is housed inside the cell nucleus, to the ribosomes. These can be found in the cytoplasm and are the 'factories' which make the proteins. Inside the nucleus RNA transcribes the genetic information by producing a complimentary nucleic acid strand-a copy of a DNA sequence. Where RNA is Found. Cell Nucleus. Here RNA comes into existence as the newly created messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules known as primary transcripts or pre-mRNA. It undergoes some modification before being transported out into the cytoplasm.
A virus is a microscopic organism that can replicate only inside the cells of a host organism. Most viruses are so tiny they are only observable with at least a conventional optical microscope. Viruses differ, however, from the simpler autonomous replication of chemical crystals. This is due to the fact that a virus can inherit a genetic mutation and is also subject to similar natural selection processes of cellular organisms.
Bacteriophages. A bacteriophage is a virus that attacks a bacterium host, and is one of the most abundant organisms on our planet; they are found in soil, ocean water, aerosols, and within animal intestinal tracts. Viruses differ, however, from the simpler autonomous replication of chemical crystals. This is due to the fact that a virus can inherit a genetic mutation and is also subject to similar natural selection processes of cellular organisms.
Viruses are tiny agents that can infect a variety of living organisms, including bacteria, plants, and animals. Like other viruses, the dengue virus is a microscopic structure that can only replicate inside a host organism. The mature dengue viruses are then released from the cell and can go on to infect other cells. The dengue virus is a tiny structure that can only replicate inside a host organism. The four closely related dengue viruses — DEN-1, DEN-2, DEN-3, and DEN-4 — are found in the same regions of the world.