Neon is one of six elements, found in the rightmost column of the Periodic Table, that are inert. Noble gases react very unwillingly, because the outermost shell of electrons orbiting the nucleus is full, giving these gases no incentive to swap electrons with other elements. As a result, there are very few compounds made with noble gases. Like its noble gas comrades, neon is odorless and colorless.
Neon is a colorless, odorless, tasteless chemical element. Many consumers are familiar with neon because it is used in eponymous illuminated signs all over the world. The distinctive bright color of these signs has led to the use of the word to describe the hue of any very brightly colored object. 
Neon is a chemical element with symbol Ne and atomic number 10. It is in group 18 (noble gases) of the periodic table. Neon is the second-lightest noble gas, after helium. It glows reddish-orange in a vacuum discharge tube. Also, neon has the narrowest liquid range of any element: from 24.55 K to 27.05 K (−248.45 °C to −245.95 °C, or −415.21 °F to −410.71 °F).
Neon atoms have 10 electrons and 10 protons with a full outer shell of 8 electrons. Characteristics and Properties. Under standard conditions the element neon is a colorless odorless gas. It is a completely inert gas, meaning that it will not combine with other elements or substances to create a compound. Neon is used in lighting signs that are often called neon signs. However, neon is only used to produce a reddish orange glow. Other gases are used to create other colors even though they are still called neon signs. Other applications that use neon include lasers, television tubes, and vacuum tubes.
I assume you wanted to know how a Neon atom is depicted. Neon is Atomic #10 meaning it has 10 protons in the nucleus. The majority of Neon atoms have 10 neutrons. This gives i … t an atomic mass of 10.18 AMUs. It's 1st electron shell is full with two electrons and it's 2nd electron shell full with 8 electrons. Because it's outer electron shell is full, Neon is a Noble gas meaning it is inert or non-reactive. These answers can be verified in any high school or college text book or the Merk Index. What does the Bohr model of neon look like? Neon is one of the noble gases. The Bohr model of neon has 2 energy  levels, with 2 electrons in the first level and 8 electrons in the  second level.
Uses: Neon is used to make neon signs. Neon and helium are used to make gas lasers. Neon is used in lightning arrestors, television tubes, high-voltage indicators, and wave meter tubes. Neon is the element best-known for brightly-lit signs, but this noble gas is used for many other purposes. Here are neon facts : Atomic Number: 10. Symbol: Ne.
Neon is a colorless, odorless, inert monatomic gas under standard conditions, with about two-thirds the density of air. It was discovered (along with krypton and xenon) in 1898 as one of the three residual rare inert elements remaining in dry air, after nitrogen, oxygen, argon and carbon dioxide were removed. Neon is the second-lightest noble gas, after helium. It glows reddish-orange in a vacuum discharge tube. Also, neon has the narrowest liquid range of any element: from 24.55 K to 27.05 K (−248.45 °C to −245.95 °C, or −415.21 °F to −410.71 °F).
I assume you wanted to know how a Neon atom is depicted. Neon is Atomic #10 meaning it has 10 protons in the nucleus. The majority of Neon atoms have 10 neutrons. This gives i … t an atomic mass of 10.18 AMUs. It's 1st electron shell is full with two electrons and it's 2nd electron shell full with 8 electrons. What does the Bohr model of neon look like? Neon is one of the noble gases. The Bohr model of neon has 2 energy  levels, with 2 electrons in the first level and 8 electrons in the  second level.