Meredith Mitchell, Ph.D. Analytical psychology is a form of analysis in which the emphasis of the treatment process is on strengthening the individual's connection to, and consciousness of, the creative and healing elements as well as destructive potentials within the psyche. 
By Gregory Mitchell. Analytical Psychology is the name given to the psychological-therapeutic system founded and developed by the Swiss psychiatrist Carl Gustav Jung (1875-1961). Carl Jung was the son of a pastor in the Swiss Reformed Church, and many of his relatives were ministers too. 'My life is the story of the self-realization of the unconscious,' wrote Jung on the very first line of his autobiography, and the process that he called 'individuation' - the idea of continual, lifelong personal development-was an important part of his approach to psychology and to life.
Jung developed a foundational approach to the study of the human mind. Jung began his career as a psychiatrist in Zurich, Switzerland. There, he conducted research for the Word Association Experiment at the world-renowned Burgholzli Clinic. Analytical psychology emphasizes the primary importance of the individual psyche and the personal quest for wholeness.
Conclusion Jung „s analytical psychology is a psychodynamic model that originated from Freudian psychoanalysis and broke up from it to develop in a theory and therapy model that is also called Jungian Analysis or Jungian Psychoanalysis or Jungian Psychotherapy, terms that have already be used here interchangeably. Also, the dreamer is the one knows or who 10 Analytical Psychology: The Theory of Carl Jung can find a way to know what the dream really means, because the dreamer is the one who has the dream.
Analytical psychology or Jungian psychology is a school of psychology that originated from the ideas of Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung. Analytical psychology emphasizes the primary importance of the individual psyche and the personal quest for wholeness.
Therefore, in general usage today, analytical psychology embraces theory, writing, and research as well as psycho-therapeutic practice. The international professional association of Jungian analysts is called the International Association for Analytical Psychology. In 1913, the year when Jung left the psychoanalytic movement, he used the term analytical psychology to identify what he called a new psychological science seen by him as having evolved out of psychoanalysis. 
Analytical Psychology. When you read about analytic psychology, Carl Jung's name is always associated with it. The term 'psychoanalyst' is currently used to cover all those facts and theories presented in the works of Freud, Jung, and Adler.
The client is encouraged to explore his or her imagination by 15 Analytical Psychology: The Theory of Carl Jung employing any type of art (e.g. writing, drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, etc.) in order to explore their inner depths of their psyche (Fadiman & Frager, 2002). Also, the dreamer is the one knows or who 10 Analytical Psychology: The Theory of Carl Jung can find a way to know what the dream really means, because the dreamer is the one who has the dream.
Analytical Psychology is Jung’s term for his theory and practice of psychology. He coined the term to distinguish it from Freud’s form of psychotherapy, which Freud called psychoanalysis. The phrase most commonly used today to describe Jung’s model of therapeutic practice is Jungian analysis. 
Carl Jung was an early supporter of Freud because of their shared interest in the unconscious. He was an active member of the the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society (formerly known as the Wednesday Psychological Society). 