The wattage of the light fixture can have a much greater impact on the cost than the motor. When calculating the cost to operate a fan with the lights on, you must add the wattage of the lights to that of the motor. The range of wattage for a ceiling fan light fixture is anywhere from 13 watts to 190 watts. FYI: Ceiling fans used to have up to 300 watts with a 5-light fixture using 60 watt bulbs, but the EPA began inforcing regulations that now limit the maximum wattage of the light to 190 watts. The light fixture built-in to the Eco fan uses 4-13 watt Compact Fluorescent bulbs for just 52 Watts that is equivalent to over 100 watts of incandescent light. Add the 18 watts the fan motor uses for a total of 70 Watts. Fan #6 could be any number of less efficient ceiling fans with a light fixture that uses the maximim allowed wattage (190 watts)
How much energy fans use depends on the size of the motor, pitch of the blades and what speed is selected. Savegreenly recently tested the power use of fans, air purifiers and humidifiers and found a big difference in how many watts they each drew. Testing A Box Fan's Energy Use. The first fan we tested, shown above, was a common box fan which sells at discount stores for around $30. This model is made by Galaxy.
We hooked the Kill a Watt power meter up to the fan and measured 103 watts of energy use on the high setting. On the medium setting the fan used 77 watts and on low power use of the fan was 56 watts. Overall that's not unreasonable, considering how much air the fan moved. Savegreenly recently tested the power use of fans, air purifiers and humidifiers and found a big difference in how many watts they each drew. Testing A Box Fan's Energy Use. The first fan we tested, shown above, was a common box fan which sells at discount stores for around $30. This model is made by Galaxy.
The hotter the air, both inside and out, the more power the compressor of the unit has to use. The regular fans will use all different power levels, depending on how big and powerful they are. A small personal fan that is about 6 may only use 20W or even less, while a larger window fan on high will use 100 or more. The 'fan only' option of a small window A/C uses about 50W A small window A/C unit will be around 500-600 watts, after the compressor coils heat up. 
Multiply the number of amps listed on the label by 120, which is the number of volts of power used by most appliances. This number should also be listed on the ceiling fan label. The formula of amps x volts equals the amount of watts used by the ceiling fan. For example, 0.5 x 120 = 60 watts; 0.9 x 120 = 108 watts. This wattage amount is how much power the ceiling fan uses at maximum speed. 
The cost to run a small box fan depends on how many watts it uses and how often it is used. As an example let's use the Galaxy fan seen above, running on the medium setting for ten hours a day. Savegreenly recently tested the power use of fans, air purifiers and humidifiers and found a big difference in how many watts they each drew. Testing A Box Fan's Energy Use. The first fan we tested, shown above, was a common box fan which sells at discount stores for around $30. This model is made by Galaxy.
Some large-capacity fans or combination units with lights and heaters can require much more power. For example, a heating unit on a fan may use 1,500 watts but only when the heater is on; that's why combination units often have multiple switches for operation. Fans and Features. Basic fan-only ventilation units can use as little as about 6 watts, for highly efficient models, while many standard units often use around 60 watts or more. In general, electricity usage is related to airflow, measured in cubic feet per minute (cfm) and the fan's energy-efficiency.
To meet Energy Star minimum standards, a bathroom fan must have an efficacy level of at least 1.4 for small fans (up to 89 cfm) and a level of at least 2.8 for larger fans (90 to 500 cfm). Highly efficient fans can have efficacy levels upwards of 13. Fans and Features. Basic fan-only ventilation units can use as little as about 6 watts, for highly efficient models, while many standard units often use around 60 watts or more. In general, electricity usage is related to airflow, measured in cubic feet per minute (cfm) and the fan's energy-efficiency.