The body needs energy and takes in nutrients in the form of food it stores this energy for future use. Metabolism is a term used to define the use of stored energy and the chemical process. The human body can be considered or thought of as a machine. A machine receives its energy from either a liquid fuel or electricity. Energy in the body is in the form of glucose, neutral fat and proteins. Fat stores most of the energy a young male has about 16 percent of body fat, and 22 percent by middle age. Young females have 22 percent of body fat rising to 34 percent by middle age. Naturally athletes have much lower body fat percentages
Energy assumes several forms; it may be thermal (in the form of heat), electrical, mechanical, chemical, radiant, or kinetic. In doing work, the energy is changed from one form to one or more other form(s). In these changes some of the energy is “lost” in the sense that it cannot be recaptured and used again. 
Confidence votes 167. The two major types of energy used in the body is Chemical Energy where energy is stored in bonds between chemical substrates adn when the bonds are released so is the energy and Electrical Energy where energy comes from the movement of charged particles across or down a cell membrane. 
Body composition is one determinant of energy requirements. Muscle is the body’s most metabolic tissue, which means it requires more energy than other body tissues to maintain itself. Because they are naturally more muscular, men need more energy – calories – than women do. 
How is Energy Used in the human Body; Body energy consumption occurs by the 5 following ways viz. 1. Physical exertion or by voluntary movements. 2. Mental exertion or mind activity. 3. Physiological functions of the body.(involuntary activity) . 4. Body cellular metabolic and synthetic reactions. 5. But unlike animals, human body requires more energy as his needs and activities are more. Before we go into details on how is energy used in the human body we will see how is energy present are produced in human body. There are three type of energies in the body.
Energy System 1: Ready fuel for immediate energy. The Immediate Energy system, or ATP-PC, is the system the body uses to generate immediate energy. The energy source, phosphocreatine (PC), is stored within the tissues of the body. When exercise is done and energy is expended, PC is used to replenish ATP. Basically, the PC functions like a reserve to help rebuild ATP in an almost instantaneous manner. The bulk of the ATP produced by the human body comes from the mitochondria. Therefore, the bulk of the ATP produced is via “aerobic” processes. The first two energy systems are anaerobic, meaning they do not require oxygen.
In the body, thermal energy helps us to maintain a constant body temperature, mechanical energy helps us to move, and electrical energy sends nerve impulses and fires signals to and from our brains. Energy is stored in foods and in the body as chemical energy. 
How ATP is used by the body is largely due to high energy bonds, which can be broken by ATPase, an enzyme specifically present to break the third phosphate bond. Breaking this bond releases a large amount of energy, and ADP, or adenosine diphosphate, remains. Respiration is another important component of energy production through ATP, which is why aerobic exercise can provide sustainable energy. It increases the body's ability to make ATP quickly as a source of energy. When considering how ATP is used, understanding the cycle of ATP and oxygen exchange is an important element for a maintaining a healthy body and consistent reserves of energy. slide 2 of 4