In order to understand puberty, it is important to know about the hormones that are responsible for puberty, as well as the female and male reproductive organs that are affected by these hormones. Two areas of the brain produce the hormones that are needed for puberty: the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. They are located in the scrotum at the base of the penis. When the hormones that signal the beginning of puberty reach the testes, boys begin to produce testosterone and sperm. Testosterone is a hormone responsible for most of the changes a boy’s body goes through during puberty.
Early on in puberty, these hormones (which, along with hormones that trigger development of the testes, are known as gonadotropins) are produced only at night. In later stages of puberty, when growth is going gangbusters, these hormones are being produced around the clock and in greater and greater quantities. FSH, when it reaches the testes, spurs the growth of seminiferous tubules, which are the channels in the testes in which sperm is produced. Male Puberty Hormones and What They Do. Although puberty can be humiliating, its actual purpose is to enable sexual reproduction. The process taking place inside a pubescent boy's body to bring about reproductive ability is quite complex. We'll learn the basics of it in this section.
During puberty, endocrine glands produce hormones that cause body changes and the development of secondary sex characteristics. In girls, the ovaries begin to increase production of estrogen and other female hormones. In boys, the testicles increase production of testosterone. Puberty is the time in which a child's sexual and physical characteristics mature. It occurs due to hormone changes. Adolescence is the period between puberty and adulthood.
1 These hormones in turn stimulate the testicles or ovaries to make other hormones, testosterone or estrogen. 2  It's these sex hormones that cause the changes of puberty, like breast development in girls. 3  Peripheral precocious puberty or precocious pseudo-puberty is a different condition. 4  It's also rarer. 1 It's these sex hormones that cause the changes of puberty, like breast development in girls. 2  Peripheral precocious puberty or precocious pseudo-puberty is a different condition. 3  It's also rarer. 4  The hormones estrogen and testosterone trigger the symptoms
Girls usually complete puberty by ages 15–17, while boys usually complete puberty by ages 16–17. The major landmark of puberty for females is menarche, the onset of menstruation, which occurs on average between ages 12–13; for males, it is the first ejaculation, which occurs on average at age 13. In boys, testicular enlargement is the first physical manifestation of puberty (and is termed gonadarche). Testes in prepubertal boys change little in size from about 1 year of age to the onset of puberty, averaging about 2–3 cm in length and about 1.5–2 cm in width.
Puberty is started by hormones, which are chemicals that tell parts of the body to do things. Today, on average, girls start puberty at age 10 or 11, and boys at age 11 or 12. However, people all over the world start puberty at different ages. Puberty is what happens in children's bodies that changes them into adults. After puberty, people are able to make children. A girl who has gone through puberty can become pregnant and have a baby.
For girls, puberty begins when the specialized hormones tell the ovaries to begin producing another hormone, known as estrogen. Estrogen is responsible for most of the changes in a girl’s body during puberty. It causes her body to mature and prepare for pregnancy. In males, the follicle-stimulating hormone and the luteinizing hormone act on the testicles. The testicles, or testes, are two egg-shaped glands that produce sperm and male hormones. They are located in the scrotum at the base of the penis. When the hormones that signal the beginning of puberty reach the testes, boys begin to produce testosterone and sperm. Testosterone is a hormone responsible for most of the changes a boy’s body goes through during puberty.
Boys. In boys, between the ages of about 12 and 15, the pituitary gland produces LH and FSH, which together stimulate the production of the sex hormones. The testes start to produce testosterone which begins the development of secondary sexual characteristics. The ovaries start to produce oestrogen and progesterone which begin the bodily changes that happen during puberty. The changes, known as secondary sexual characteristics, are: 1  The breasts develop. 2  The hips and thighs widen.