Pothos (also called pothos vine, golden pothos, variegated philodendron, and devil’s ivy) is a common houseplant in the Arum family (Araceae). Pothos is native to the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific. This plant was formerly known scientifically as Scindapsis aureus, but is currently classified as Epipremnum aureum.
The asparagus fern (also called emerald feather, emerald fern, sprengeri fern, plumosa fern or lace fern) is toxic to dogs and cats. The toxic agent in the plant is sapogenin — a steroid found in a variety of plants. If a dog or cat ingests the berries of this plant, vomiting, diarrhea and/or abdominal pain can occur.
Here is a list of some of the more common plants that are poisonous to birds, dogs, cats, equine and other domesticated livestock as well. This list is not comprehensive by any means so please use common sense.
Golden pothos (Epipremnum aureum), known also as pothos, devil’s ivy, taro vine and ivy arum, is a common houseplant with smooth, leathery, heart-shaped leaves, commonly mottled with yellow or white. Pothos adds a splash of green and helps to purify indoor air.
Answers. Best Answer: Some resources list all parts of Epipremnum, Pothos, Philodendron and Scindapsus as poisonous if ingested. The toxic principal is calcium oxalate crystals. Symptoms include burning and swelling of lips, mouth, tongue, and throat, also diarrhea. Reportedly toxic only if large amounts are eaten.
Satin pothos (also known as silk pothos) is toxic to dogs and cats. If ingested by a cat or dog, the plant may irritate the mouth, lips and tongue. The pet may also experience increased salivation, vomiting and/or difficulty swallowing.
Satin Pothos. Satin pothos (also known as silk pothos) is toxic to dogs and cats. If ingested by a cat or dog, the plant may irritate the mouth, lips and tongue. The pet may also experience increased salivation, vomiting and/or difficulty swallowing.
While pothos plants are an easy to care for houseplant, you do need to be aware that they are poisonous. Though rarely fatal, the plant can cause irritation and vomiting if ingested due to the fact that it contains calcium oxalates. Even the sap from the plant may cause highly sensitive people to break out in a rash.
Heartleaf philodendron (also known as horsehead philodendron, cordatum, fiddle leaf, panda plant, split-leaf philodendron, fruit salad plant, red emerald, red princess or saddle leaf) is a common, easy-to-grow houseplant that is toxic to dogs and cats.