February 27, 2015 bio, golf, others, recent, Top 10. Golf is one of the popular and highest paying sports in the world of sports. The famous golfers like Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson have secured their places among the richest and highest paid golfers in the world. The female golfers also have their own sets of Golf tournaments to shine in and they are among the highest earners too. Hottest female golfers possess well-shaped bodies with sexy looks besides their huge cash on the bank account in order to prove themselves the most desirable athlete
The Women's WORLD AMATEUR GOLF RANKING™ system ranks the top female amateur golfers in the world on the basis of their average performance in Counting Events over a rolling cycle of the previous 52 weeks. 
She also stood at T3 in 2005 LPGA tournament, first place in 2010 U.S Women’s Open, T3 in 2012 Women’s British Open and seventh in 2014 Evian Championship. The cream girl Paula stands 1.75 meters high and she makes herself one of the stunning golf girl in our list of top 10 hottest female golfers 2015. The female golfers also have their own sets of Golf tournaments to shine in and they are among the highest earners too. Hottest female golfers possess well-shaped bodies with sexy looks besides their huge cash on the bank account in order to prove themselves the most desirable athletes in the world.
Tweet Pin It. Hottest Female Golfers 2015. Golf is considered as one of the highest earning sports in the entire world as its famous players such as Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson have secured their places among the highly paid and the richest athletes. Female golf players have their own sets of tournaments to shine in, and they are also counted among the highest earners. Because of their relationship with active sports, female golfers possess well-shaped bodies besides their huge cash on the bank to prove them among the most desirable athletes.
Pingback: Top 10 Neymar Hairstyle 2015 Sporteology (). Pingback: Top 10 Hottest Female Tennis Players 2015 Sporteology (). Pingback: Top 10 Highest Paid Female Athletes 2014 Sporteology (). Pingback: The Top 10 Most Handsome Football Players of 2014 Sporteology (). Pingback: Top 10 popular athletes in the world. Female golf players have their own sets of tournaments to shine in, and they are also counted among the highest earners. Because of their relationship with active sports, female golfers possess well-shaped bodies besides their huge cash on the bank to prove them among the most desirable athletes.
Calculation of the rankings [edit]. The rankings are based on performances on the eight major tours (LPGA, JLPGA, KLPGA, LET, ALPG, Symetra Tour, LETAS, CLPGA) over a two-year period. Amateur players are eligible. The system for calculating the rankings is similar to that for the men's Official World Golf Rankings. The rankings are used by each of the sponsoring tours to determine eligibility criteria for certain events. For example, 40 of the 144 places in the Women's British Open are currently awarded on the basis of the rankings—10 to LET members and 30 to LPGA members.
The greatest female American amateur golfer, Vare was often called the female Bobby Jones in her day. A great driver and a great sportsman, in 1924 she won 59 of 60 matches played. She is the only 6-time winner of the U.S. Women's Amateur. The LPGA Tour's Vare Trophy for low scoring average is named in her honor. 40. Betty Jameson. Jameson was a force in the pre-LPGA Tour era of women's golf, winning two U.S. Amateurs, the Western Open (a major), and the U.S. Women's Open prior to 1948. Jameson was the first female golfer to score under 300 in a 72-hole tournament-doing so at the U.S. Women's Open that she won. 39.
The Women's World Golf Rankings, also known for sponsorship reasons as the Rolex Rankings, were introduced in February 2006. The rankings are used by each of the sponsoring tours to determine eligibility criteria for certain events. For example, 40 of the 144 places in the Women's British Open are currently awarded on the basis of the rankings—10 to LET members and 30 to LPGA members.
Sandra Gal is our girl at No 1 in our list of top 10 hottest female golfers in 2015. Also Read: Top 10 most famous sports in the world. 10 most popular sports in America. The super-hot female golfers like Sharmila Nicollet and Belen Mozo also deserve their places as the hottest female golfers. The female golfers also have their own sets of Golf tournaments to shine in and they are among the highest earners too. Hottest female golfers possess well-shaped bodies with sexy looks besides their huge cash on the bank account in order to prove themselves the most desirable athlete