Like adults, minors are subject to the maximum annual contribution limits for Roth IRAs. As of 2012, the maximum contribution limit is $5,000 per tax year for investors under the age of 50. A minor may not contribute more than $5,000 to a Roth IRA. Contributing to a Roth IRA may have significant advantages for minors. [1] There are no official minimum or maximum age limits on making contributions to a Roth IRA. This feature gives younger and older investors the opportunity to invest the money they've earned and accrue earnings at a tax free rate.
The Contribution Limit. For 2013 and 2014. the basic limit for regular contributions to a Roth IRA is $5,500 for people under 50 years of age, and $6,500 for those who are 50 or older. (Numbers like this can be found in our Reference Room .) This limit may be reduced for any of the following reasons: 1 There’s no age limit for contributions to Roth IRAs. 2  For regular IRAs, you lose the ability to make contributions in the year you turn age 70½. 3  Not so for Roth IRAs. 4  If you meet the other requirements, you can set up a brand new Roth IRA at age 85 and begin saving for your “retirement.” There’s also no lower age limit.
To withdraw tax-free earnings, the Roth IRA must have been open for a minimum of five years and be withdrawn for one of the following reasons: 1  You are at least 59 1/2 years old. 2  Disability or death. 3  First-time home purchase ($10,000 lifetime limit). While Traditional IRAs allow for tax-deferred growth of retirement assets, qualified Roth IRA withdrawals are tax-free, as long as you hold the Roth for at least five years and are at least age 59 1/2*. Withdrawals may be subject to a 10% IRS tax penalty if distributions are taken prior to age 59 1/2
Anyone with earned income that falls under the above guidelines can use a Roth IRA to save for retirement. How much you can save is dependent upon your age. If you under the age of 50 years old you can contribute $5,500 toward retirement in a Roth IRA. If you are married each individual can set aside $5,500 toward their retirement, even if only one partner works (learn more about opening a spousal Roth IRA). However, you are also allowed to contribute an additional $1,000 as a catch up contribution toward retirement, for a total of a $6,500 contribution. Read on to learn more about Roth IRA contribution limits.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up.
If you are age 50 or older the same $5,500 contribution limit applies. However, you are also allowed to contribute an additional $1,000 as a catch up contribution toward retirement, for a total of a $6,500 contribution. Read on to learn more about Roth IRA contribution limits.
For those with income above the limits. If you are above these limits and you have assets in a Traditional IRA or an old workplace savings plan, such as a 401(k), you may still be able to take advantage of the benefits of a Roth IRA by converting these assets. 
Income Ceiling. Technically, there is no specific income limit for opening a Roth IRA, but you can’t put any money into the Roth account if your adjusted gross income exceeds $183,000 if married filing jointly, or $125,000 if single. 