Germanium: geological information. Germanium is not found as the free element in nature. Germanium is found in germanite, argyrodite, and some zinc ores. It is also present in coal and its presence in coal insures reserves for many years.
Zone refining techniques allow for the production of ultra-pure germanium. Germanium is found in argyrodite (a sulfide of germanium and silver), in germanite (composed of about 8% of the element), in coal, in zinc ores, and other minerals. The element may be commercially prepared from the flue dusts of smelters processing zinc ores or from the by-products of the combustion of certain coals.
Germanium is the third element of the fourteenth column of the periodic table. It is classified as a metalloid. It is similar in properties to the other metalloids near it in the periodic table which are silicon and arsenic. Germanium atoms have 32 electrons and 32 protons with 4 valence electrons in the outer shell. 
Germanium. Type: element. Description: Germanium (element #32, symbol Ge) is a chemical element with symbol Ge and atomic number 32. It is a lustrous, hard, grayish-white metalloid in the carbon group, chemically similar to tin and silicon. Purified germanium is a semiconductor, with an appearance most similar to elemental silicon. 
It is a lustrous, hard, grayish-white metalloid in the carbon group, chemically similar to its group neighbors tin and silicon. Purified germanium is a semiconductor, with an appearance most similar to elemental silicon. Like silicon, germanium naturally reacts and forms complexes with oxygen in nature. Unlike silicon, it is too reactive to be found naturally on Earth in the free (native) state. Historically the first decade of semiconductor electronics was based entirely on germanium. Today, however, its production for use in semiconductor electronics is a small fraction (2%) of that of ultra-high purity silicon, which has largely replaced it.
Germanium compounds are also used for polymerization catalysts and have most recently found use in the production of nanowires. This element forms a large number of organometallic compounds, such as tetraethylgermane, which are useful in organometallic chemistry. Historically the first decade of semiconductor electronics was based entirely on germanium. Today, however, its production for use in semiconductor electronics is a small fraction (2%) of that of ultra-high purity silicon, which has largely replaced it.
Uses. Germanium is a semiconductor. The pure element was commonly doped with arsenic, gallium or other elements and used as a transistor in thousands of electronic applications. Today, however, other semiconductors have replaced it. Germanium oxide has a high index of refraction and dispersion. It is brittle. 
Germanium is an element on the Periodic Table of Elements, discovered by Germany. Its symbol is Ge, atomic number is 32, its atomic mass is 72.92 (cf. note 1), it is a metallo … id, and it is located in Group 14 and period 4. (That means that it has 2 electron shells, and 4 valence electrons in the outer shell. cf. 
Naturally occurring germanium is a mixture of five isotopes and they are found in the percentages shown: 70 Ge (21.2%), 72 Ge (27.7%), 73 Ge (7.7%), 74 Ge (35.9%) and 76 Ge (7.4%). The most abundant is 74 Ge at 35.9%. 