It initially develops as a small and an itchy red bump on the extensor surface of the limbs. Prurigo nodularis causes an intense itching that provokes a vigorous scratching to relieve the itchiness. Scratching of the nodules however only intensifies the symptom of itchiness and only brings in more nodules.
Raw Lakshmi answered on 5/3/2014. Prurigo nodularis is a skin disease. It is characterised by itchy nodules which usually appear on the legs or the arms. While the cause of prurigo nodularis is unknown, they do not believe it to be contagious. People that have prurigo nodularis typically are middle-age before they seek treatment.
Clinical features of nodular prurigo. Nodular prurigo can occur at all ages but mainly in adults aged 20–60 years. Both sexes are equally affected. The individual prurigo nodule is a firm lump, 1–3 cm in diameter, often with a raised warty surface. The early lesion may start as a smaller red itchy bump.
Prurigo nodularis is the most severe form of prurigo. This skin condition on the other hand is rather benign. Prurigo nodularis can affect the quality of life as the extent of pruritus and nodules can be debilitating and bothersome.
Nodular prurigo is a skin condition characterised by very itchy firm lumps. It is the most severe form of prurigo. It is not known why these lumps appear. It is also called ‘prurigo nodularis’. Nodular prurigo is very difficult to treat effectively.
Prurigo nodularis is also known by another name such as Hyde prurigo nodularis and Picker’s nodules. The disease was first described in 1909 by Hyde and Montgomery describing the disease as itchy nodules on the extensor surface of the lower extremities.
The Q&A Community about Health Sign in to read answers or ask questions. Prurigo nodularis is a skin disease. It is characterised by itchy nodules which usually appear on the legs or the arms. While the cause of prurigo nodularis is unknown, they do not believe it to be contagious. People that have prurigo nodularis typically are middle-age before they seek treatment.
Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Nodular Prurigo is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability. Contagiousness has nothing to do with genetics or inheriting diseases from parents.