Medical School. Medical school is the next four years of higher education for an OB/GYN. Generally, the first two years of medical school take place in the classroom, and the last two are spent in a clinic or hospital. Courses in medical school include biochemistry, anatomy and pathology. Becoming a certified OB/GYN requires over eight years of higher education, plus a residency at a clinic or hospital. Once you complete all of the education, you must pass two board exams and obtain a state license.
To become an OB/GYN, individuals must earn a bachelor's degree, complete medical school and fulfill a 4-year residency requirement. During residency, students spend at least 50 hours per week attending to patients and learning from doctors. All OB/GYNs complete intensive formal education programs, including undergraduate school, medical school and residency requirements. The specialized residency program allows candidates to learn about preconception, pregnancy, labor and delivery, postpartum and genetics.
How to Become an OBGYN in 5 Steps. Research what it takes to become an OBGYN or an obstetrician/gynecologist. Learn about education, training and licensure requirements to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Health Science degrees can also be found in these popular choices. 
Typically, the education and training for both fields occurs concurrently. An obstetrician/gynecologist is a physician specialist who provides medical and surgical care to women and has particular expertise in pregnancy, childbirth, and disorders of the reproductive system. Obstetrician / Gynecologist Overview. An obstetrician is a physician who has successfully completed specialized education and training in the management of pregnancy, labor, and pueperium (the time-period directly following childbirth).
To become a gynecologist, a bachelor 's degree and doctor of medicine degree (MD) is needed. They must complete a 4 year residency program in gynecology including at least 1 year internship. Gynecologists who choose to focus on a sub-specialty usually complete up to 3 years of additional residency training. 
Medical school is the next four years of higher education for an OB/GYN. Generally, the first two years of medical school take place in the classroom, and the last two are spent in a clinic or hospital. Becoming a certified OB/GYN requires over eight years of higher education, plus a residency at a clinic or hospital. Once you complete all of the education, you must pass two board exams and obtain a state license.
Salary. During residency training, an OB/GYN’s annual salary may range from $45,000 to $60,000. Salary will increase with each year of training. After residency is completed, the starting salary is generally between $200,000 and $250,000 per year. It is always important to do well in the third year OB/GYN clinical rotation and also to choose at least one sub-internship in the field prior to applying for residency. Training. After completing an MD degree and matching to an OB/GYN program successfully, residents must complete a four-year residency-training program. During this time residents will earn a relatively low salary ($45,000 annually) and care for patients under the supervision of more senior physicians
EDUCATION. To become an ob-gyn, you'll need four years of medical school and at least four years of residency (on-the-job training) in addition to a bachelor's degree.