1 Preheat oven to 400°F Mix Jiffy, milk, and egg in a small bowl. 2  Mix until all ingredients are well blended but not over beaten/mixed. 3  Place into an 8x8 baking dish (or cake pan) and bake for 15-20 minutes. ( 4 This step is all from package directions). 1 Mix until all ingredients are well blended but not over beaten/mixed. 2  Place into an 8x8 baking dish (or cake pan) and bake for 15-20 minutes. ( 3 This step is all from package directions). 4  Remove from oven and immediately spread the butter over top of cornbread until butter is melted and bread is fully coated on top.
Last night I added in some sour cream and some honey to the box mix, and then just threw in fresh corn kernels from a lone leftover ear and leftover chipotle pepper I had from a previous recipe -- and it came out moist and sweet and tasty! You can add your own enhancements, like diced red bell pepper or bacon, etc. This was amazing, I skipped the pepper and honey.....but add a teaspoon sugar, vanilla and cinnamon. It was so moist and tasted like I made it from scratch. Thank You! tropicalchinie. Enhanced Jiffy Corn Muffins. 5 5. Excellent recipe with great flavor.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 400°F Mix Jiffy, milk, and egg in a small bowl. 2  Mix until all ingredients are well blended but not over beaten/mixed. 3  Place into an 8x8 baking dish (or cake pan) and bake for 15-20 minutes. ( 4 This step is all from package directions). 1 Mix until all ingredients are well blended but not over beaten/mixed. 2  Place into an 8x8 baking dish (or cake pan) and bake for 15-20 minutes. ( 3 This step is all from package directions). 4  Remove from oven and immediately spread the butter over top of cornbread until butter is melted and bread is fully coated on top.
1 Line 12 muffin cups with paper liners. 2  Mix corn bread mix, milk, sour cream, honey, and eggs in a bowl until batter is well combined yet slightly lumpy; allow to rest for 5 minutes. 3  Fill muffin cups 3/4 full with batter. 4  Lightly sprinkle each muffin with sugar. 1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  Line 12 muffin cups with paper liners. 3  Mix corn bread mix, milk, sour cream, honey, and eggs in a bowl until batter is well combined yet slightly lumpy; allow to rest for 5 minutes. 4
1 Mix corn bread mix, milk, sour cream, honey, and eggs in a bowl until batter is well combined yet slightly lumpy; allow to rest for 5 minutes. 2  Fill muffin cups 3/4 full with batter. 3  Lightly sprinkle each muffin with sugar. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until muffins are golden brown, 18 to 20 minutes. 1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  Line 12 muffin cups with paper liners. 3  Mix corn bread mix, milk, sour cream, honey, and eggs in a bowl until batter is well combined yet slightly lumpy; allow to rest for 5 minutes. 4
Stir in oil and 2 eggs. Mix in salt, sour cream, cinnamon, vanilla flavoring and sugar. Whisk until combined. 3. Pour batter into greased pan. Sprinkle 2 teaspoons of sugar overtop of the batter. 3. Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes, or until a knife inserted into the center of pan comes out clean. I hope you enjoy your rich and moist cornbread! Please share your experience below. 
You just mix yellow cornmeal with all-purpose flour, baking powder, sugar, salt and oil, put it in a glass jar and keep in refrigerator or store in zip-lock bags in your freezer. Use this homemade mixture in any recipe that is calling for a box of Jiffy Corn Muffin Mix. In this way you can make your cornbread, corn muffins, casserole, stuffing (dressing), pudding, quiche, waffles, pancakes of fritters in no time. You just need to add 1 egg and 1/3 cup of milk (buttermilk, Greek yogurt or sour cream) to the mixture. If you are wondering how to make the cornbread extra moist, I’ll share few tips with you. Add 4 more tablespoons of oil or melted butter to the mix and let the better stand for about 20 minutes so that cornmeal absorbs moisture.
cornbread or corn muffin mix (like Jiffy) 1 egg 2 tbsp. butter, melted cup sour cream, optional (but I always use it) Preheat oven to 400. Combine all ingredients in a large bowl. Pour into a greased 11 x7 baking dish. Bake uncovered for 25 to 30 minutes or until the top and edges are golden brown. 
Directions. 1  Mix all ingredients well. 2  Use either cupcake paper cups or a greased muffin pan. 3  Bake according to box instructions, erring on the short side of baking time in order to control how moist you want the muffins. This was amazing, I skipped the pepper and honey.....but add a teaspoon sugar, vanilla and cinnamon. It was so moist and tasted like I made it from scratch. Thank You! tropicalchinie. Enhanced Jiffy Corn Muffins. 5 5. Excellent recipe with great flavor.
1 Mix all ingredients well. 2  Use either cupcake paper cups or a greased muffin pan. 3  Bake according to box instructions, erring on the short side of baking time in order to control how moist you want the muffins. This was amazing, I skipped the pepper and honey.....but add a teaspoon sugar, vanilla and cinnamon. It was so moist and tasted like I made it from scratch. Thank You! tropicalchinie. Enhanced Jiffy Corn Muffins. 5 5. Excellent recipe with great flavor.