And it’s just really disappointing, and potentially devastating.”. The definition of petulant is easily irritated or angered, especially in a childish way. Petulant is derived from the Latin petulans, which means “insolent.” Someone petulant is insolent and irritated easily, often in an immature or unreasonable way. Petulant is a more sophisticated way of describing someone who is being cranky and irritable, especially without a real reason. Usage Examples: 
petulant. Having or showing a bad temper: bad-tempered, cantankerous, crabbed, cranky, cross, disagreeable, fretful, grouchy, grumpy, ill-tempered, irascible, irritable, nasty, peevish, querulous, snappish, snappy, surly, testy, ugly, waspish. Informal: crabby, mean. Idiom: out of sorts. She ceased to be a woman, complex, kind and petulant, considerate and thoughtless; she was a Maenad. Moon and Sixpence by Maugham, W. Somerset View in context. It would be the worse for us if our petulant prayers were answered.
petulant-easily irritated or annoyed; an incorrigibly fractious young man; not the least nettlesome of his countrymen. irritable, peevish, pettish, techy, testy, tetchy, scratchy, nettlesome, peckish, cranky, fractious. ill-natured-having an irritable and unpleasant disposition. She ceased to be a woman, complex, kind and petulant, considerate and thoughtless; she was a Maenad. Moon and Sixpence by Maugham, W. Somerset View in context. It would be the worse for us if our petulant prayers were answered.
The definition of petulant is someone who gets irritated without a good reason. An example of petulant is a toddler throwing a temper tantrum when they don't get their way. The most preposterous notion that H. sapiens has ever dreamed up is that the Lord God of Creation, Shaper and Ruler of all the Universes, wants the saccharine adoration of His creatures, can be swayed by their prayers, and becomes petulant if He does not receive this flattery.
Full Definition of PETULANT. 1. : insolent or rude in speech or behavior. 2. : characterized by temporary or capricious ill humor: peevish. — pet·u·lant·ly adverb. See petulant defined for English-language learners. 1 Oxford's denial of her [Margaret Thatcher's] honorary degree in 1984 was no petulant fluke but an accurate measure of her unpopularity with the whole profession. — 2 Harold Perkin, Times Literary Supplement, 26 June 1992.
adjective. (Of a person or their manner) childishly sulky or bad-tempered: he was moody and petulant a petulant shake of the head. More example sentences. 1  By midnight, he was pouting like a petulant kid being kept after school. 2  I cycled off, leaving him to glower after me like a petulant teenager. Late 16th century (in the sense 'immodest'): from French petulant, pétulant From latin- 'petulant' (impudent related to 'petere aim, at'). Seek the current (sense mid 18th) century is influenced by. pettish
[more petulant; most petulant] disapproving. : having or showing the attitude of people who become angry and annoyed when they do not get what they want. 
Examples of PETULANT. 1  Her tone was petulant and angry. 2  petulant. 3  Oxford's denial of her [Margaret Thatcher's] honorary degree in 1984 was no petulant fluke but an accurate measure of her unpopularity with the whole profession. 1 Oxford's denial of her [Margaret Thatcher's] honorary degree in 1984 was no petulant fluke but an accurate measure of her unpopularity with the whole profession. — 2 Harold Perkin, Times Literary Supplement, 26 June 1992.