Yes | No Thank you! At 17 weeks your baby it located below your belly button. There is no exact point because the baby moves a lot even if you dont feel the baby move. The baby can be anywhere below the belly button from your left side to your right side. The baby doesn't move when you want them to the baby will move when it wants to. My baby is never still. At my ultrasound yesterday if was hard to get a good picture because he wouldn't be still.
By 17 weeks of your pregnancy you may be feeling your baby move. However you may not realise that it is in fact your baby moving due to the erratic and fairly irregular feeling. When you start to feel movement will vary from woman to woman and in particular if this is your first pregnancy.
At 17 weeks your baby it located below your belly button. There is no exact point because the baby moves a lot even if you dont feel the baby move. The baby can be anywhere below the belly button from your left side to your right side. The baby doesn't move when you want them to the baby will move when it wants to. My baby is never still. At my ultrasound yesterday if was hard to get a good picture because he wouldn't be still.
The baby is still so small at 15 weeks that he has lots of room to move around and won't be located in one particular place. Even if you feel a pain somewhere it's not going to be related to where your tiny little baby is.
The uterus is a female reproductive organ located between the bladder and the rectum, in the pelvic area. The uterus has three layers: the inner lining (endometrium); the middle muscular layer (myometrium); and the outer layer (perimetrium). The uterus is connected to the fallopian tubes, the cervix, and (via the cervix) the vagina. The main purpose of the uterus is to nourish a fetus prior to birth. In menstruating females, the ovaries release eggs that travel via the fallopian tubes to the uterus. If fertilized, the eggs will bind themselves to the wall of the uterus and the fetus will develop.