1 Don't oversaturate your carpet while steam cleaning. 2  Too much water can damage the padding underneath and lead to mold issues if the water isn't completely removed within 48 hours. 3  When pretreating the carpet for stains, test the vinegar-water solution on an inconspicuous area, such as inside a closet. 2. Sprinkle baking soda over the carpet, and allow it to sit for one hour to remove any lingering odors, if the home was previously occupied. Vacuum up the baking soda, working in quadrants to ensure that everything gets sucked up.
The surface of your carpet may look clean, but dust and dirt still could be trapped deep in the fibers. Before moving all your belongings into your new home, take advantage of the empty space by thoroughly cleaning your carpet. 2. Sprinkle baking soda over the carpet, and allow it to sit for one hour to remove any lingering odors, if the home was previously occupied. Vacuum up the baking soda, working in quadrants to ensure that everything gets sucked up.
4. Fill a carpet steam cleaner's clean water canister with hot water. Fill the detergent bin with the approved amount of cleaning agent and water, as specified in the owner's manual. If you don't own a carpet steam cleaner, you can rent a machine from a hardware or home-improvement store. 2. Sprinkle baking soda over the carpet, and allow it to sit for one hour to remove any lingering odors, if the home was previously occupied. Vacuum up the baking soda, working in quadrants to ensure that everything gets sucked up.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. You can shampoo your carpet every month if you want to but the thing to keep in mind is that each time you do, you leave detergent residue behind. This can build up and actually make the carpets get dirty quicker. If you have a professional steam cleaner, it shouldn't be an issu
Stains and dirt spots are inevitable for anyone with carpeting in their home. These spots may not always be removed with regular stain remover sprays, but by using a carpet cleaning machine, you can remove those deep stains a lot better. Follow these steps to shampoo your carpet. Ad. Purchase or rent a carpet cleaning machine. Your local hardware store may have a rental machine on site or you can go to a bigger chain store that normally has a renting site.
Ventilate well after the installation of your new carpet for up to 72 hours, longer if you can. Shedding and sprouting are normal occurrences with new carpet installation. Shedding is when you find carpet fibers on top of the rug. This just takes vacuuming. Sprouting is when a loose carpet fiber sticks up above the pile, just gently use your scissors to cut the fiber down to the level of the rest of the carpet. You may have to repaint or repair damaged trim or molding and it is common to have to shave the bottom of your doors that may not be able to close with a higher pile floor. Ask your retailer, or check the manufacturer s site, on the best ways to clean and keep clean your new carpet investment. See what you should do before your new carpet arrives and the day your new carpet is installed
4. Prepare the carpet cleaning machine. Fill the clean water tank with water and carpet shampoo as directed by manufacturer instructions. Do not use more shampoo than required. Excess shampoo will leave greater residue on the carpet, allowing dirt to cling to the dried residue and making carpets look dirty again. Purchase or rent a carpet cleaning machine. Your local hardware store may have a rental machine on site or you can go to a bigger chain store that normally has a renting site.