Intubation is a procedure in which a trained medical specialist inserts a tube into an internal or external opening or orifice.    Usually intubation refers to the pla … cement of a breathing tube to secure an airway. The most common type of this intubation is endotracheal intubation. In this type of intubation, an ET (endotracheal) tube is passed through the mouth or nose and into the airway to allow air to be passed through to the lungs. To intubate is to insert a tube into an orifice of the body in order to remove from the body, or to supply to the body, some liquid or gas. For example, in an emergency, if … air is required for the lungs, intubation is done via the nose or the mouth.
Intubation (sometimes entubation) is a medical procedure involving the insertion of a tube into the body. Patients are generally anesthetized beforehand. Examples include tracheal intubation, and the balloon tamponade with a Sengstaken-Blakemore tube (a tube into the gastrointestinal tract). 
Intubation is the process of placing a tube into the body for medical purposes. Typically, intubation refers to the placement of an endotracheal tube to assist the patient when they are not breathing effectively. The tube is placed into the trachea and connected to an assistive device for breathing.
1 A DNI or “Do Not Intubate” order means that chest compressions and cardiac drugs may be used, but no breathing tube will be placed. 2  An AND or “Allow Natural Death” order is a term used at some hospitals as an alternative to the more traditional DNR order. 
intubation. endotracheal intubation insertion of a tube into the trachea for purposes of anesthesia, airway maintenance, aspiration of secretions, lung ventilation, or prevention of entrance of foreign material into the airway; the tube goes through the nose (nasotracheal i.) or mouth (orotracheal i.) . endotracheal intubation. The insertion of an endotracheal tube through the nose or mouth into the trachea to maintain the airway, to administer an anesthetic gas or oxygen, or to aspirate secretions. Endotracheal intubation can be hazardous to patients with injuries to, or instability of, the cervical vertebra.
intubation. OROTRACHEAL INTUBATION: endotracheal tube with bag-mask ventilation. The insertion of a tube into any hollow organ. Intubation of the trachea provides an open airway and thus is an essential step in advanced life support. endotracheal intubation. The insertion of an endotracheal tube through the nose or mouth into the trachea to maintain the airway, to administer an anesthetic gas or oxygen, or to aspirate secretions. Endotracheal intubation can be hazardous to patients with injuries to, or instability of, the cervical vertebra.
tracheostomy is a form of endotracheal intubation. gastrointestinal intubation in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as insertion of a tube into the gastrointestinal tract. endotracheal intubation. The insertion of an endotracheal tube through the nose or mouth into the trachea to maintain the airway, to administer an anesthetic gas or oxygen, or to aspirate secretions. Endotracheal intubation can be hazardous to patients with injuries to, or instability of, the cervical vertebra.
Freebase. Tracheal intubation. Tracheal intubation, usually simply referred to as intubation, is the placement of a flexible plastic tube into the trachea to maintain an open airway or to serve as a conduit through which to administer certain drugs. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: intubation (Noun). The introduction of a tube into an organ to keep it open, as into the larynx in croup. Origin: Probably coined in 1880-1884 by Joseph O'Dwyer, M.D., in widespread publication in 1887.
Intubate: To put a tube in, commonly used to refer to the insertion of a breathing tube into the trachea for mechanical ventilation. For example, as a life-saving measure, an emergency room physician might intubate a patient who is not breathing adequately so that the lungs can be ventilated. 