In addition to the common cold, you and your pet dog generally can’t share the of majority these types of diseases. For example, the two species can’t transfer Influenza or any other types of the flu among each other. They just can’t voice their pain, discomfort or particular symptoms. If you observe that your pet has a type of cold, you’ll want to administer treatment or some remedies to alleviate your dog’s condition. We’ll offer solutions below. If the situation is severe, you may see some mucous discharge from their nose.
We can breathe hot, tainted air all over our dogs and cats, or even sneeze on them, and they don’t run away. In fact, many pets seem to revel in the extra attention of our zombie-like slowness and our gratitude for their devotion. Best of all, there’s no worry about infecting our dogs or cats. 
You can’t give your dog a cold. Diseases that are transferable from humans to dogs are almost unheard of. It’s simply not an infectious disease that can be caught by canines. The bacteria, viruses, and organisms that typically thrive in a particular body system cannot survive in such a different environment. They just can’t voice their pain, discomfort or particular symptoms. If you observe that your pet has a type of cold, you’ll want to administer treatment or some remedies to alleviate your dog’s condition. We’ll offer solutions below. If the situation is severe, you may see some mucous discharge from their nose.
Follow our tips to keep cats, dogs and horses safe and comfortable. Pets are happiest and healthiest when kept indoors, especially during extreme cold snaps. iStockphoto. In many areas, winter is a season of bitter cold and numbing wetness. Give your horses shelter and dry warmth. Be sure your horses have access to a barn or a three-sided run-in so they can escape the wind and cold. While not all horses will need to be blanketed, blankets will help horses keep warm and dry, especially if there is any rain or snow.
Cats and dogs can both catch human colds. Dogs, cats and humans share a litany of cold symptoms -- stuffy noses and irritability, for starters -- but the underlying causes are usually alien. Pets and people can share a few viruses, but common cold culprits aren't typically among them. Some cold-like symptoms, though, may mask a transmissible illness. You may not know if your pets have it, though, as both cats and dogs can be carriers without exhibiting symptoms of infections. The vector direction of shared diseases is typically from pets to humans -- such diseases are called zoonoses -- and not the other way around.
The Flu in Dogs. Dogs can get the flu but it’s not the same flu that we get, so you don’t have to worry about getting sick from them if they start coughing and showing other symptoms. Although there’s some debate on the topic, our research shows that there’s only a very small possibility that your dog can catch the flu from you.
Winter isn’t the only time of year we have to worry about catching a cold, but it is the primary time for it. We’re spending more time in closed quarters, with windows and doors shut tight and no way to escape the germs. It is only a matter of time before someone in the house becomes sick. 
Dogs can’t: “There’s no concern with dog-to-human, or human-to-dog, transmission,” says Scott Weese, the Canada research chair in zoonotic diseases and an associate professor at the Ontario Veterinary College. Dogs get viruses from each other. But a cat can catch cold or flu from you. “The virus attaches to cells in the respiratory tract of felines similarly to how it does in humans,” says Weese. He points to reports of H1N1 found in cats in the United States. Cats also get cat-to-cat viruses that are similar to a cold, but humans can’t catch those. If you have a pet, it’s always a good idea to wash your hands often, especially after contact. “Avoid exposure from the pet’s saliva to your mucous membranes, such as your nose and mouth, or broken skin,” says Weese
If not, the other cats may catch the cold. Then you would have to treat all those other cats, which is more effort and worry, as well as potentially being more expensive. Keep your cat with a cold away from any other pet cats you may keep in your house. Ad. 