Mycoprotein, used in Quorn products and other protein rich foods can contribute to this. Quorn™ and mycoprotein nutrition. Mycoprotein is a healthy, meat-free form of high quality protein, and as the main ingredient, it plays an important role in determining the nutritional value of Quorn products. Mycoprotein is a type of fungi (Fusarium venenatum), discovered more that 40 years ago.
Quorn products are the world’s favourite meat free, soy free food. Quorn products are currently available in the UK, USA, Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia. A number of our Quorn products do not contain added milk including meat free, soy free Mince and Pieces. If you have an allergy to milk proteins, then all Quorn products containing milk or milk derivatives should be avoided.
Livestock is a very inefficient source of protein which is why eating Quorn products instead of meat is a more sustainable option. For example, the carbon footprint of Quorn Meatless & Soy Free Grounds is up to 90% less than that of beef, so Quorn products are better for you and better for the planet. Yes! Quorn is a great addition to any healthy diet and lifestyle. Quorn products are low in fat, high in fiber, and a healthy source of protein. Quorn helps reduce meat consumption, supports heart health, aids weight management, and is easy on the environment. Our products replicate the taste and texture of meat but with fewer calories, fat, and cholesterol
Livestock is a very inefficient source of protein which is why eating Quorn products instead of meat can be a more sustainable option. For example, the carbon footprint of Quorn Meat Free, Soy Free Mince is up to 90% less than that of beef, so Quorn products are better for you and better for the planet. A number of our Quorn products do not contain added milk including meat free, soy free Mince and Pieces. If you have an allergy to milk proteins, then all Quorn products containing milk or milk derivatives should be avoided.
Quorn is a meat substitute product available in the UK, Ireland, the US, Australia, and other countries. The final Quorn product is high in protein and dietary fibre and is low in saturated fat. It contains less dietary iron than most meats and the manufacturers have not released much information about additives they use to make Quorn resemble meat.
Quorn products' main ingredient is Mycoprotein which is a nutritionally healthy protein source from the fungi family like a truffle or morel. Mycoprotein is made naturally through fermentation in a similar way to the fermentation of yeast in bread. Yes! Quorn is a great addition to any healthy diet and lifestyle. Quorn products are low in fat, high in fiber, and a healthy source of protein. Quorn helps reduce meat consumption, supports heart health, aids weight management, and is easy on the environment. Our products replicate the taste and texture of meat but with fewer calories, fat, and cholesterol
Mycoprotein is the common ingredient in all Quorn products. It's made from a member of the fungi family (the same family that morels and truffles belong to) and is a high-quality meat-free protein that's low in fat, high in dietary fibre (important for your digestive system) and is a valuable source of amino acids. 
Quorn is a first class protein and contains all the essential amino acids that humans need, without cholesterol. Quorn can also benefit the environment because the product requires less land and fewer resources than meat or soya. Further the carbon footprint of Quorn Frozen Mince in the UK is claimed to be 70% less than that of beef. The final Quorn product is high in protein and dietary fibre and is low in saturated fat. It contains less dietary iron than most meats and the manufacturers have not released much information about additives they use to make Quorn resemble meat.
Yes. Mycoprotein, the main ingredient used to make Quorn products, is a healthy protein* source and good source of dietary fibre and is low in fat-especially saturated fat. Many Quorn products are a source of protein, which contributes to the maintenance of normal bones. Quorn products offer a nutritious, meat free source of fiber and protein. As with all protein and fiber rich foods, Quorn products may have the potential to cause an adverse reaction in a small number of consumers.