Some schools have additional holidays-the data below should be used as a guide. Always check with your child's school before booking a holiday. Please note that INSET / Training Days are NOT included below, therefore term start and end dates can vary. Always check with your child's school before booking a holiday. 
Welcome to Coates Way School. The information contained on this website is designed to inform parents on how they can support their children. We recognise that it is by working together that our children become happy, confident and successful individuals. 
Our school offers considerable opportunities for children to develop and learn as one community supporting each other. Whitecotes Primary School is located in the area of Chesterfield known as Walton. We have modern school building, ample playing fields and hard play areas within a pleasing landscaped setting. Whitecotes Primary School justifiably enjoys an improving reputation in the area and with on-going and future developments, the school will continue to provide a good education for all children.
WELCOME. Our website aims to give you an overview of life at St Martin’s Garden Primary School. Prospective families will gain an insight into the happy and enriching education we provide for our pupils. Current parents and pupils can catch up with the latest school news and what’s happening. 1 Kiki has won a prize in the Rotary Club of Bath's 'Design a Firework safety poster' competition 2015, which the pupils of St Martin's Garden Primary participated in. 2  Well Done! 3  Read more to see her prize winning design.
Barnoldswick. My name is Sarah White and I am the Headteacher here. I started as the Headteacher in September 2013 and feel very fortunate to be able to lead such an amazing school. We are a team of dedicated and committed staff who always put the needs of our children before anything. We strive to always do our best and we love coming to work. When our pupils leave at the end of year 6 we always hope to send them off being ready for not only High School but with skills to use for the rest of their life! Please take a look around our website at the wonderful world of Coates Lane Primary School.
SCHOOL OPENS Mon 8th Sept 2014. HALF TERM School closes on Tue 21st Oct 2014 (at 3.15pm). School re-opens Mon 3rd Nov 2014. END OF TERM School Closes for Christmas Holidays. Fri 19th Dec 2014 at 2pm. 
If you would like to visit school to look around and to talk about your child’s admission, please get in touch with me so that such a visit can be arranged. We value highly the links between school and home and the great contribution parents make to their child’s education. Whitecotes Primary School justifiably enjoys an improving reputation in the area and with on-going and future developments, the school will continue to provide a good education for all children.
School Profile. Coatesville Primary School is located on Mackie Road, East Bentleigh, a residential suburb in the city of Glen Eira, south-east of Melbourne. We are an authorised International Baccalaureate-Primary Years Program (IB-PYP) World School. We belong to a global, educational community that strives to develop inquiring, knowledgeable, young people who help to create a better and more peaceful world through intercultural understanding and respect.