noun. A chemical test that detects any compound containing two or more peptide bonds. Supplement. Biuret test is used for detecting compounds with peptide bonds. A biuret reagent may be used to test the aqueous sample. This blue reagent is made by combining sodium hydroxide and copper sulfate solutions. A few drops of this reagent will turn the aqueous sample containing compounds with peptide bonds from pale to intense violet colour. 
Biuret is a chemical compound with the chemical formula C 2 H 5 N 3 O 2. It is also known as carbamylurea. It is the result of condensation of two molecules of urea and is a problematic impurity in urea-based fertilizers. This white solid is soluble in hot water. The biuret test is a chemical test for proteins and polypeptides. It is based on the biuret reagent, a blue solution that turns violet upon contact with proteins, or any substance with peptide bonds.
The biuret test is a chemical test used for detecting the presence of peptide bonds. In the presence of peptides, a copper(II) ion forms a violet-colored complex in an alkalin … e solution. Split and merge into it. Answer by Verrucosa. Confidence votes 14. The biuret test is a chemical test used for detecting the presence of peptide bonds. In a positive test, a copper(II) ion is reduced to copper(I), which forms a complex with the nitrogens and carbons of the peptide bonds in an alkaline solution. A violet color indicates the presence of proteins. by:
The biuret test is a chemical test used for detecting the presence of peptide bonds. In a positive test, a copper(II) ion is reduced to copper(I), which forms a complex with t … he nitrogens and carbons of the peptide bonds in an alkaline solution. A violet color indicates the presence of proteins. The biuret test is a chemical test used for detecting the presence of peptide bonds. In the presence of peptides, a copper(II) ion forms a violet-colored complex in an alkalin … 
The characteristic color of a positive biuret test. The biuret test is a chemical test used for detecting the presence of peptide bonds. In the presence of peptides, a copper (II) ion forms violet-colored coordination complexes in an alkaline solution. Several variants on the test have been developed, such as the BCA test and the Modified Lowry test. The biuret reaction can be used to assess the concentration of proteins because peptide bonds occur with the same frequency per amino acid in the peptide. The intensity of the color, and hence the absorption at 540 nm, is directly proportional to the protein concentration, according to the Beer-Lambert law.
The biuret test is a chemical assay that detects the presence of proteins in a sample. The test relies on a color change to confirm the presence of proteins. If proteins are found, the sample will turn violet. Biuret Reagent. The biuret test uses an alkaline mixture, or reagent, composed of potassium hydroxide and copper sulfate. The normal color of biuret reagent is blue. The reagent turns violet in the presence of peptide bonds -- the chemical bonds that hold amino acids together.
Biuret test is used for detecting the presence of peptide bonds. It relies on the reduction of copper(II) ions to copper(I), the latter form a complex with the nitrogens … of the peptide bonds in an alkaline solution. Split and merge into it. Answer by Verrucosa. Confidence votes 14. The biuret test is a chemical test used for detecting the presence of peptide bonds. In a positive test, a copper(II) ion is reduced to copper(I), which forms a complex with the nitrogens and carbons of the peptide bonds in an alkaline solution. A violet color indicates the presence of proteins. by: