Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column. The process of urination begins when the muscles of the urethral sphincters relax, allowing urine to pass through the urethra. At the same time that the sphincters relax, the smooth muscle in the walls of the urinary bladder contract to expel urine from the bladder.
The urethra is the tube through which urine passes from the bladder to the exterior of the body. The female urethra is around 2 inches long and ends inferior to the clitoris and superior to the vaginal opening. In males, the urethra is around 8 to 10 inches long and ends at the tip of the penis. The process of urination begins when the muscles of the urethral sphincters relax, allowing urine to pass through the urethra. At the same time that the sphincters relax, the smooth muscle in the walls of the urinary bladder contract to expel urine from the bladder.
The urinary system consists of the frog s kidneys, ureters, bladder, and cloaca. The kidneys are organs that excrete urine. Connected to each kidney is a ureter, a tube through which urine passes into the urinary bladder, a sac that stores urine until it passes out of the body through the cloaca. The organs of the male reproductive system are the testes, sperm ducts, and cloaca.
Urination is the process of releasing urine from the urinary bladder through the urethra and out of the body. The process of urination begins when the muscles of the urethral sphincters relax, allowing urine to pass through the urethra. At the same time that the sphincters relax, the smooth muscle in the walls of the urinary bladder contract to expel urine from the bladder.
In order, name the structures through which urine passes from the kidneys to the outside environment.? also in order, name the structures through which sperm passes from the testes. Add your answer.
Confidence votes 29. urine comes from the kidneys where it travels through the ureters and is stored i nthe bladder. it then passes through the urethra and out of the body. ps: urine is liquid waste. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Évã Élisè Elise. élisè onēlovē confidence. votes 29 urine comes from the kidneys where it travels through the ureters and is stored i. nthe bladder it then passes through the urethra and out of. the: body ps urine is. liquid waste
***Be sure to observe a pig of both sexes. 1. In order, name the structures through which urine passes from the kidneys. 2. In order, name the structures through which sperm passes from the testes. 3. In order, name the structures through which an egg would pass from the ovary. Label the parts of these two diagrams. 
urine comes from the kidneys where it travels through the ureters and is stored i nthe bladder. it then passes through the urethra and out of the body. ps: urine is liquid was … te. good luck hope i helped!   collecting duct, renal pelvis, ureter, bladder, urethra. Urine goes from the kidneys to the ureters, and then into the bladder of a pig. Next, the urine goes from the bladder to the urethra. Finally, the urine is expelled from the b … ody. Answered.