Examples of BIPARTISAN. 1  The bill has bipartisan support. 2  In his first Inaugural Address, Jefferson sounded a conciliatory, bipartisan note, averring that “we are all Republicans, we are all Federalists”—a trope copied in many inaugural addresses to follow. — 3 Sean Wilentz, Newsweek, 27 Jan. 2009. 1
Bipartisanship (in the context of a two-party system) is the opposite of partisanship which is characterized by a lack of cooperation between rival political parties. While the framers of the Constitution did not think that political parties would play a role in American politics, political parties have long been a major force in American politics, and the nation has alternated between periods of intense party rivalry and partisanship, as well as periods of bipartisanship.
A bipartisan bill is a bill that has the support of both parties. Bipartisan support of a bill usually comes through negotiations, give-and-take and compromise. On rare occasions, Democrats and Republicans will both back a bill without any compromise or negotiations. In order for a bill to be bipartisan, a country must have a two party system (such as the United states). The term bipartisan can also refers to acts, resolutions and other decrees of government that have the support of both parties.
If you're a partisan, it means you adhere firmly to a political party, faction, idea or cause. If you're a partisan you probably exhibit blind, prejudiced, and unreasoning allegiance.. To put it bluntly, being a partisan isn't a good thing. In fact, you match the definition of a partisan to the T: someone who exhibits blind, prejudiced, and unreasoning allegiance to a political party. If you don't want to be a partisan, here's a handy guide to everything you need to know to prepare for Election Day.
OK. To be fair, it is some people's job to be partisan. And those people happen to be working in the political arena. That is, the parties themselves. If you're the chairman of the Republican National Committee or the GOP organization in your hometown, it is function to be a partisan. In fact, you match the definition of a partisan to the T: someone who exhibits blind, prejudiced, and unreasoning allegiance to a political party. If you don't want to be a partisan, here's a handy guide to everything you need to know to prepare for Election Day.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by GovernmentTeacher. Confidence votes 191. Typically, the term bi-partisan is used to describe a government or political action that consists of a compromise or joint effort between the two major parties (Democrat and Republican). 1. partisan (noun) - irregular warrior, guerrilla. 2. partisan (adj.) - one-sided, biased, combative. It usually means favoring one side of an issue.
Typically, the term bi-partisan is used to describe a government or political action that consists of a compromise or joint effort between the two major parties (Democ … rat and Republican). . 109 people found this useful. Confidence votes 53. 1. partisan (noun) - irregular warrior, guerrilla. 2. partisan (adj.) - one-sided, biased, combative. It usually means favoring one side of an issue.
Bipartisanship requires hard work, is sometimes dull, and entails trying to find common ground but enables serious problem solving, according to editorial writers at the Christian Science Monitor in 2010. While the framers of the Constitution did not think that political parties would play a role in American politics, political parties have long been a major force in American politics, and the nation has alternated between periods of intense party rivalry and partisanship, as well as periods of bipartisanship.