In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body.
Blood passes from the right ventricle to the lungs via the pulmonary artery (the only artery in the body that contains deoxygenated blood veins In the circulatory system … , a vein is a blood vessel that carries blood back toward the heart (as opposed to artery, a blood vessel carrying blood away from the heart). Simple answer: Veins Complex answer: a series of blood vessels (excluding arteries) carries deoxygenated blood from the body to the heart. Where the blood is then passed throu … gh an oxygenating process with the lungs.
Pulmonary circulation is the portion of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated (oxygen-rich) blood back to the heart. The term pulmonary circulation is readily paired and contrasted with the systemic circulation. Pulmonary circulation is the movement of blood from the heart, to the lungs, and back to the heart again. Deoxygenated blood leaves the heart, goes to the lungs, and then re-enters the heart; Deoxygenated blood leaves through the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery.
Blood passes from the right ventricle to the lungs via the pulmonary artery (the only artery in the body that contains deoxygenated blood. veins. In the circulatory system, a vein is a blood vessel that carries blood back toward the heart (as opposed to artery, a blood vessel carrying blood away from the heart). The pulmonary vein brings in oxygenated blood from the lungs through the left atrium and ventricle up into the aorta which then carries the oxygenated blood through the … body.
From the right atrium blood flows through the tricuspid valve and enters the right ventricle. from the right ventricle de-oxygenated blood flows through the pulmonary semi lunar valve into the pulmonary trunk which break off into the left and right pulmonary arteries which take the de-oxygenated blood to the lungs. The pulmonary arteries-some of the only arteries in the body that carry deoxygenated blood. Pulmonary veins carry freshly oxygenated blood back to the heart.
Systemic circulation carries oxygenated blood from the left ventricle, through the arteries, to the capillaries in the tissues of the body. From the tissue capillaries, the deoxygenated blood returns through a system of veins to the right atrium of the heart. 
Blood Vessels: Arteries: These are large blood vessels that take oxygenated blood away from the heart to be distributed throughout the body. The aorta is the body's largest artery. Veins: These blood vessels take deoxygenated blood from around the body back to the heart and lungs to be oxygenated. Capillaries: These tiny blood vessels are where the exchange of oxygen and nutrients take place. The nutrients and oxygen are exchanged for wastes that are taken from the cells
The vena cava (main vein) on the right side carries deoxygenated blood through the right atrium through the right ventricle up into the pulmonary artery, which carries the deoxygenated blood to the lungs to get oxygenated again. Simple answer: Veins Complex answer: a series of blood vessels (excluding arteries) carries deoxygenated blood from the body to the heart. Where the blood is then passed throu … gh an oxygenating process with the lungs.
Specifically, the superior and inferior vena cava carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. The superior vena cava is bringing deoxygenated blood from the head and upper torso back to the heart's right atrium. The pulmonary vein brings in oxygenated blood from the lungs through the left atrium and ventricle up into the aorta which then carries the oxygenated blood through the … body.