The fusion of Latin music with jazz predated that of rock with jazz by some 20 years. Jazz musicians began to employ Latin rhythms in the 1940s, and Latin bands have long featured jazz musicians in improvisatory roles. Jazz. Combining elements of European and African traditions, jazz is a style of music that originated with African Americans in the early 20th century. It is characterized by its improvisatory nature, rhythmic vitality (i.e., “swing”) and emotional expressiveness.
His father was a dentist; his mother, a music teacher. In 1941 he began playing the trumpet semiprofessionally with St. Louis jazz bands. The skills were there. Four years later, his father sent him to study at New York's Juilliard School of Music. He continued to perform and record over the next four years, but his disease kept his career in low gear until he cleaned up in 1954. The following year, he formed a group with drummer Philly Joe Jones, bassist Paul Chambers, pianist Red Garland and, in his first major exposure, tenor saxophonist John Coltrane. This incarnation of the Miles Davis Quintet quickly established itself as the decade's premier jazz group
Dixieland music or New Orleans jazz, sometimes referred to as hot jazz or early jazz, is a style of jazz music which developed in New Orleans at the start of the 20th century, and was spread to Chicago and New York City by New Orleans bands in the 1910s. The repertoire of these bands is based on the music of Joe King Oliver, Jelly Roll Morton, Louis Armstrong, and W.C. Handy. Bands playing in the West Coast style use banjo and tuba in the rhythm sections, which play in a 2-to-the-bar rhythmic style.
The rock groups that drew on jazz ideas (like Soft Machine, Colosseum, Caravan, Chicago, Spirit and Frank Zappa) turned the blend of the two styles with electric instruments. Davis' fusion jazz was pure melody and tonal color, while Frank Zappa's music was more complex and unpredictable. Chick Corea formed his band Return to Forever in 1972. The band started with Latin-influenced music (including Brazilians Flora Purim as vocalist and Airto Moreira on percussion), but was transformed in 1973 to become a jazz-rock group that took influences from both psychedelic and progressive rock.
The central figure in the white dance band world in Detroit in the 1920s was without a doubt Jean Goldkette. While there is no evidence that he ever learned to play hot music himself, he did employ musical directors and musicians who were among the leading white jazz musicians of the decade. Among white society bands, the most important to jazz historians was probably the one led by Paul Specht. Specht came to Detroit in the late teens and his band at the Addison Hotel included musicians who recorded some early jazz sides in 1922 and 1923 under the name of The Georgians(9).
User: Who is the author of the surrealist manifesto?User: Who was a trumpeter that formed two studio bands The Hot Five and The Hot Seven recorded hotter thatn thatWeegy: Two Surrealist Manifestos were issued by the Surrealist movement, in 1924 and 1929. Who was a trumpeter that formed two studio bands The Hot Five and The Hot Seven recorded hotter thatn that. Two Surrealist Manifestos were issued by the Surrealist movement, in 1924 and 1929. The first was written by Andre André, breton the second was supervised by. him
It was created around the late 1960s. The term jazz-rock is often used as a synonym for jazz fusion as well as for music performed by late 1960s and 1970s-era rock bands that added jazz elements to their music. Chick Corea formed his band Return to Forever in 1972. The band started with Latin-influenced music (including Brazilians Flora Purim as vocalist and Airto Moreira on percussion), but was transformed in 1973 to become a jazz-rock group that took influences from both psychedelic and progressive rock.
1 author of Weary Blues, which describes listening to a blues singer in a Harlem club; many of his poems were inspired by the jazz rhythms he heard in the clubs where he was a busboy and dishwasher. Across. 1 