The current Bordetella pertussis vaccine is a whole-cell vaccine which means that the vaccine uses whole dead B. pertussis cells. The whole-cell vaccine has been very effective for the majority of the population, but some people develop severe adverse reactions to this vaccine. It is an encapsulated immotile aerobe that does not make spores. Bordetella pertussis produces a number of virulence factors, including pertussis toxin, adenylate cyclase toxin, filamentous hemagglutinin, and hemolysin.
SYNONYM OR CROSS REFERENCE: Originally named Haemophilus pertussis F, Whooping cough. CHARACTERISTICS: Bordetella pertussis are small, gram-negative, encapsulated, non-motile, coccobacilli with outer pili. They are generally about 0.5-1.0 µm in size. Some have reported that the bacteria are covered with surface slime or biofilm composed of carbohydrates.
Introduction. Bordetella pertussis is one of nine members of the genus Bordetella. Genetically these organisms are very closely related, and may not be sufficiently varied to justify being classified as separate species. B. pertussis is the causative agent behind pertussis or 'whooping cough'. 
Bordetella pertussis. Bordetella pertussis (B. Pertussis) is a small, coccobacillus. Coccobacillus are rod-shaped bacteria. Cocco comes from cocci meaning spherical shaped and bacillus comes from bacilli meaning elongated. Three species in this genus are known to be pathogenic to humans. B. pertussis and B. parapertussis are very similar species. Both species cause pertussis (whooping cough) in humans and are separated merely by the toxins they release during infection. B. parapertussis releases toxins that seem to cause a milder form of pertussis (whooping cough). B. bronchiseptica causes respiratory disease in various mammals and occasionally in humans
PATHOGENICITY/TOXICITY: B. pertussis is a respiratory pathogen that causes pertussis, also known as whooping cough, a localized infection of the ciliated epithelium of the bronchial tree. The disease affects mainly children, but adults have also been increasingly reported to be affected. CHARACTERISTICS: Bordetella pertussis are small, gram-negative, encapsulated, non-motile, coccobacilli with outer pili. They are generally about 0.5-1.0 µm in size. Some have reported that the bacteria are covered with surface slime or biofilm composed of carbohydrates.
The symptoms of pertussis are similar to a common cold: runny nose, sneezing, mild cough, and low-grade fever. [1]. Bordetella pertussis has several virulence factors, one of which is the adenylate cyclase toxin (CyaA). It is the agent that causes whooping cough. It is an encapsulated immotile aerobe that does not make spores. Bordetella pertussis produces a number of virulence factors, including pertussis toxin, adenylate cyclase toxin, filamentous hemagglutinin, and hemolysin.
Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus capsulate of the genus Bordetella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Unlike B. bronchiseptica, B. pertussis is not motile. Pertussis [edit]. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. In the US, it killed between 10,000 and 20,000 people per year before a vaccine was available.
Bordetella pertussis, the agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Gram stain. (CDC). Bordetella pertussis colonizes the cilia of the mammalian respiratory epithelium (Figure 1). Generally, it is thought that B. pertussis does not invade the tissues, but some recent work has shown the bacterium in alveolar macrophages. 
PHYSICAL INACTIVATION: Information specific to B. pertussis is not available; however, most vegetative bacteria can be inactivated by moist heat (121°C for 15 min- 30 min) and dry heat (160-170°C for 1-2 hours) . SURVIVAL OUTSIDE HOST: Survives for 3-5 days on inanimate dry surfaces. CHARACTERISTICS: Bordetella pertussis are small, gram-negative, encapsulated, non-motile, coccobacilli with outer pili. They are generally about 0.5-1.0 µm in size. Some have reported that the bacteria are covered with surface slime or biofilm composed of carbohydrates.