Tumor Necrosis... Mine was necrotic in the center which my urologist said was a good thing because The only good cancer cells are dead cancer cells. and that the rest of my pathology was so good there was nothing to worry about. Hi, Here's what I found a while back when seeking info about tumor necrosis. I don't remember where the first quote came from, but the second is from the Mayo Clinic: 1) Necrosis in the tumor means that the cancer cells in that area are dead. The pathologic finding of necrosis suggests a fast-growing cancer. This often happens because the tumor runs out of blood supply in the central portion. Without a blood supply, the tumor cells cannot live
common in older cats as a cause of chronic, foul, bloody diarrhea. necrotic dermatitis. gangrene and necrosis of inflamed, wet skin caused by Clostridium septicum; characterized by a sudden onset of severe depression, a short course of a few hours and a high death rate; mostly in 4-16 week old chicks. 
Medical Definition of NECROSIS. : death of living tissue; specifically: death of a portion of tissue differentially affected by local injury (as loss of blood supply, corrosion, burning, or the local lesion of a disease)—compare necrobiosis. 
Necrotic tissue is dead tissue, which usually results from an inadequate local blood supply. Necrotic tissue contains dead cells and debris that are a consequence of the fragmentation of dying cells. Necrotic tissue changes color from red to brown or black/purple, as it becomes more dehydrated. 
Sign in to receive recommendations (Learn more). If the pathology report says that tumor necrosis is present, this means that dead breast cancer cells can be seen within the tissue sample. Tumor necrosis is often limited to a small area within the sample. Its presence suggests a more aggressive breast cancer. Your Guide to the Breast Cancer Pathology Report is an on-the-go reference booklet you can fill out with your doctor or nurse to keep track of the results of your pathology report.
The noun NECROSIS has 1 sense: 1. the localized death of living cells (as from infection or the interruption of blood supply). Familiarity information: NECROSIS used as a noun is very rare. The localized death of living cells (as from infection or the interruption of blood supply). Classified under: Nouns denoting natural phenomena. Synonyms: necrosis; gangrene; mortification; sphacelus.
Structural changes of cells undergoing necrosis and apoptosis. Necrosis (from the Greek νέκρωσις death, the stage of dying, the act of killing from νεκρός dead) is a form of cell injury which results in the premature death of cells in living tissue by autolysis. Untreated necrosis results in a build-up of decomposing dead tissue and cell debris at or near the site of the cell death. A classic example is gangrene.
Necrosis is caused by factors external to the cell or tissue, such as infection, toxins, or trauma that result in the unregulated digestion of cell components. In contrast, apoptosis is a naturally occurring programmed and targeted cause of cellular death. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: necrosis (Noun). The localized death of cells or tissues through injury, disease, or the interruption of blood supply. Origin: From νέκρωσις.
Necrosis simply means tissue death. It can happen for a variety of reasons and is not necessarily related to cancer. Necrotic masses can occur in the jaw as a result of an abscessed tooth, for example. Necrosis is tissue that has died off (or is dying) as a result of interruption to blood flow, injury, or abnormal cell growth. A mass is a lump that has not yet been diagnosed accurately.