When you buy or sell a vehicle, gift a car, or require a name change on a car title after a marriage or divorce, you'll usually need to transfer the title. Click your state to find the cost to transfer titles with your Department of Motor Vehicles or vehicle licensing agency. If your car is new, most of the required paperwork will be handled by the dealership. If you buy a used car, you must not only submit a title transfer application, but depending on your state's requirements you might also have to provide an odometer reading, a vehicle identification number(VIN), and a bill of sale.
Make sure you have a copy of the title. You will need to have the title to your vehicle to add your spouse's name. 1  You may not have possession of your title if there is a lien against your vehicle. 2  A lien is a creditor's legal right to sell certain property of a debtor who defaults on his or her obligations.
Edit Article. Removing a person's name from a car title may be necessary for a variety of reasons including inheritance, divorce or gifting the vehicle to someone else on the title. 3. Find out what legal procedure you must take. Contact the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) in the state in which the vehicle is registered. In some states, the person whose name is being removed can merely sign the car over to the other party on the back of the car title, then the car can be re-registered. However, other states may require a corrected title application and affidavit of facts
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The only person who can sell a car is the owner (the person named as the owner on the title) If there are 2 names on the title and they are listed as Mary AND jOHN then both must sign off, If they are listed as Mary OR John the either can sign off. Source(s): Entidtil · 5 years ago. Thumbs up
1 Name Change on a Title Owners with a name change can correct their title. 2  Military Personnel and Michigan Residents Temporarily Outside of Michigan How to title a vehicle if you are a Michigan resident or active military person who is temporarily out of state. Specific Information. 1  Name Change on a Title Owners with a name change can correct their title. 2  Military Personnel and Michigan Residents Temporarily Outside of Michigan How to title a vehicle if you are a Michigan resident or active military person who is temporarily out of state.
The person(s) inheriting the car can either title the car, or assign the title to a new owner. If the car is subject to probate, the executor or administrator of the estate, will be responsible for assigning the title to a new owner. 
puhhha/iStock/Getty Images. A car title serves as a record of a vehicle's legal owner. If your name isn't on the title, you don't have the legal rights to register or sell the car. States allow you to put multiple names on the title if there's more than one owner. If you're buying a car with someone else, it's important that the title includes the names of all the owners and the way they're listed can make a difference depending on where you live. For example, if you use the word or between the names on a California title you're creating a joint tenancy between owners. This means either can act for the car and, if one owner dies, the other becomes the sole owner.
A car title serves as a record of a vehicle's legal owner. If your name isn't on the title, you don't have the legal rights to register or sell the car. For example, if you use the word or between the names on a California title you're creating a joint tenancy between owners. This means either can act for the car and, if one owner dies, the other becomes the sole owner.