The cerebellum (blue) is not part of the telencephalon. As a more technical definition, the telencephalon refers to the cerebral hemispheres and other, smaller structures within the brain, despite the fact that the telencephalon is one of the larger divisions (in terms of number). Note: As the telencephalon is a gross division with many subdivisions and sub-reigons, it is important to state that this section lists the functions which the telencephalon as a whole serves.
The telencephalon (te-len-seff-a-lon) is the technical name for a large region within the brain which is attributed many functions, which some groups would class as unique features which make humans stand out from other species. Note: As the telencephalon is a gross division with many subdivisions and sub-reigons, it is important to state that this section lists the functions which the telencephalon as a whole serves.
The dorsal telencephalon gives rise to the pallium (cerebral cortex in mammals and reptiles) and the ventral telencephalon generates the basal ganglia. The diencephalon develops into the thalamus and hypothalamus, including the optic vesicles (future retina). The cerebrum is the newest structure in the phylogenetic sense, and in mammals it is the largest and most developed, out of all known species. The cerebrum is made up of the two cerebral hemispheres and their cortices, (the outer layers of gray matter), and the underlying regions of white matter.
In prenatal development, the forebrain (prosencephalon) is the most anterior vesicle of the neural tube that later forms both the diencephalon and the telencephalon (which develops into the cerebrum). It consists of several structures between the brainstem and the cerebrum, including the thalamus, hypothalamus, epithalamus, pituitary gland, and pineal gland. Embryologically, the diencephalon begins as the region of the embryonic vertebrate neural tube that gives rise to posterior forebrain structures.
The cerebrum is a large part of the brain containing the cerebral cortex (of the two cerebral hemispheres), as well as several subcortical structures, including the hippocampus, basal ganglia, and olfactory bulb. In humans, the cerebrum is the superior-most region of the central nervous system. The cerebrum is the newest structure in the phylogenetic sense, and in mammals it is the largest and most developed, out of all known species. The cerebrum is made up of the two cerebral hemispheres and their cortices, (the outer layers of gray matter), and the underlying regions of white matter.
In mammals, the dorsal telencephalon, or pallium, develops into the cerebral cortex, and the ventral telencephalon, or subpallium, becomes the basal ganglia. The cerebrum is also divided into approximately symmetric left and right cerebral hemispheres. The cerebrum is the newest structure in the phylogenetic sense, and in mammals it is the largest and most developed, out of all known species. The cerebrum is made up of the two cerebral hemispheres and their cortices, (the outer layers of gray matter), and the underlying regions of white matter.
telencephalon. 1. one of the two divisions of the prosencephalon, composing the cerebrum (q.v.). 2. the anterior of the two vesicles formed by specialization of the prosencephalon in embryonic development; from it the cerebral hemispheres are derived.telencephal´ic. telencephalon. 1. one of the two divisions of the prosencephalon, consisting of the cerebrum. 2. the anterior of the two vesicles formed by specialization of the prosencephalon in embryonic development. Called also endbrain. adj., adj 
Development of the Diencephalon. The term diencephalon means the “between brain.” The two main components of the diencephalon are the thalamus and the hypothalamus. This part of the brain links the phylogenetically older brainstem to various structures in the phylogenetically newer telencephalon. 
The Telencephalon (the cerebral hemispheres) is the largest of the divisions of the human brain, and it is what subserves language  at least the aspects of language which are of interest to linguistics and most other people. 
1 Introduction: the telencephalon is the most rostral part of the brain vesicle and consists of 2 lateral outpocketings, the cerebral hemispheres, and a median part, the lamina terminalis. 