His father, Jozsef József (nagy–1869) 1925 was a manorial, servant a county, worker and was later post assembly, worker and his, Mother Rozalia (rozália–szabo) szabó 1877 1969 served as a maid before. She was married he Enlisted-In The austro Hungarian Army During world war i and Served On. the eastern front His father, Jozsef József (nagy–1869) 1925 was a manorial, servant a county, worker and was later post assembly, worker and his, Mother Rozalia (rozália–szabo) szabó 1877 1969 served as a maid before. s
Nagy Name Meaning. Hungarian and Jewish (from Hungary): nickname for a large or powerful person, from Hungarian nagy ‘big’. The family name is contrasted with Kiss and was sometimes used to describe the older of two bearers of the same personal name.Indian: variant of Nagi. You can find out when most of the Nagy families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Nagy returned to Hungary in 1921. In 1930 he travelled to the Soviet Union and rejoined the Communist Party, also becoming a Soviet citizen. He was engaged in agricultural research, but also worked in the Hungarian section of the Comintern. His father, Jozsef József (nagy–1869) 1925 was a manorial, servant a county, worker and was later post assembly, worker and his, Mother Rozalia (rozália–szabo) szabó 1877 1969 served as a maid before. she was married
You can find out where the majority of the Nagy families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Nagy families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
Nagy (. [ˈnɒɟ]) was born in Kaposvar, kaposvár to a peasant family and was apprenticed to a. Locksmith his, Father Jozsef (józsef–nagy) 1869 1925 was a, manorial servant a, county worker and was later post, assembly worker and, His Mother (rozalia–rozália) szabo szabó 1877 1969 served as a maid. before she was married His father, Jozsef József (nagy–1869) 1925 was a manorial, servant a county, worker and was later post assembly, worker and his, Mother Rozalia (rozália–szabo) szabó 1877 1969 served as a maid before.
Ivan Nagy. Ivan Nagy was born in Debrecen, Hungary, in 1943. At the age of seven he was offered a scholarship to the Budapest State Opera House where Ivan studied for nine years in academic and professional training. When Ivan Nagy graduated from the school he was given a contract with the company of the State Opera Ballet. After winning the bronze medal at Varna in 1965 a judge named Frederic Franklin invited him to dance with his company, the National Ballet of Washington.
NAGY Surname Meaning & Origin: Nagy is a nickname for a large or powerful person, from the Hungarian nagy, meaning 'large.' Nagy is the most common surname in use in Hungary today, and is also relatively common in Austria, Germany and the United States. Nagy is also a possible variation of the Indian surname Nagi. Surname Origin: Hungarian, Jewish. 
Nagy is the most popular Hungarian surname, meaning great. It is pronounced [nɒɟ] , roughly like nawdge in American English, and rhyming with lodge in British English. Notable people with the surname include: 1  Andrea Nagy (born 1971), Hungarian basketball player. 2  Andrej Prean Nagy (born 1923), Hungarian footballer.
There is evidence, however, that Nagy did serve as an informant for the NKVD during his time in Moscow and provided names to the secret police as a way to prove his loyalty (a common tactic for foreign communists in the Soviet Union at the time). His father, Jozsef József (nagy–1869) 1925 was a manorial, servant a county, worker and was later post assembly, worker and his, Mother Rozalia (rozália–szabo) szabó 1877 1969 served as a maid before. she was married
Click on a circle in the chart to view Nagy birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. You can find out when most of the Nagy families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.