On the other hand, RNA polymerase is known to be a complex enzyme involved in the production of RNA from DNA via the process of transcription. RNA polymerases are also in charge for supplying ribonucleotides to the growing transcripts of RNA in the end portion. 4.DNA is double stranded whereas RNA is a single stranded. 5.DNA contains the pentose sugar deoxyribose while RNA contains the pentose sugar ribose. 6.DNA polymerase will be continuous till the work is finally done wherein RNA polymerases will continue but eventually may break in the event it will reach a “stop” cycle.
DNA POLYMERASE vs RNA POLYMERASE. The main function of a polymerase which is an enzyme is somehow similar to nucleic acid polymers like that of DNA and RNA. 4.DNA is double stranded whereas RNA is a single stranded. 5.DNA contains the pentose sugar deoxyribose while RNA contains the pentose sugar ribose. 6.DNA polymerase will be continuous till the work is finally done wherein RNA polymerases will continue but eventually may break in the event it will reach a “stop” cycle.
Compare RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. RNA polymerase (RNAP or RNApol), also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces primary transcript RNA. In cells, RNAP is necessary for constructing RNA chains using DNA genes as templates, a process called transcription. RNA polymerase enzymes are essential to life and are found in all organisms and many viruses.
Answers. Best Answer: None of the RNA polymerases require primers, and all of the DNA polymerases do. DNA polymerases are much more accurate, making an error only once in 10 to the 7th times, whereas RNA polymerases are more prone to errors, making them 1 in 10 to the 4th times. They are both similar in terms of shape. DNA polymerase looks like a hand, RNA polymerase resembles a crab claw.
Best Answer: RNA polymerase synthesizes RNA, but does not need a primer to initiate synthesis. DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA, but needs a primer in order to initiate synthesis. DNA = Deoxyribonucleic Acid (H) RNA = Ribonucleic Nucleic Acid (OH) DNA is double stranded RNA is single stranded DNA uses Thymine as a base RNA uses Uracil as a base. Source(s): Taylor · 8 years ago. There are two main segments of the RNA polymerase molecule: the core enzyme, and the sigma subunit. These two pieces are together referred to as the holoenzyme.
7.Subunits contained in RNA polymerases must unwind the templates of DNA and the DNA polymerases do actually abide the helicase that the double helix may be open just in front of it. 8.Lastly, DNA polymerase is a lot faster compared to RNA polymerase. 4.DNA is double stranded whereas RNA is a single stranded. 5.DNA contains the pentose sugar deoxyribose while RNA contains the pentose sugar ribose. 6.DNA polymerase will be continuous till the work is finally done wherein RNA polymerases will continue but eventually may break in the event it will reach a “stop” cycle.
RNA polymerase. In most prokaryotes, a single RNA polymerase species transcribes all types of RNA. Figure 10-7 shows the structure of RNA polymerase from E. coli. We can see that the enzyme consists of four different subunit types. The beta (β) subunit has a molecular weight of 150,000, beta prime (β′) 160,000, alpha (α) 40,000, and sigma (σ) 70,000.
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. Every time a cell divides, DNA polymerase is required to help duplicate the cell’s DNA, so that a copy of the original DNA molecule can be passed to each of the daughter cells. In this way, genetic information is transmitted from generation to generation.
Hey pal, DNA Polymerase is a polymerase that synthesizes a DNA strand ... so it's used in DNA replication. RNA Polymerase is not used to form the primer-that is primases job. RNA Pol is used during transcription to synthesize the mRNA strand. EK does a decent job describing a primer. I believe it is in orange text on the right hand margin. Anyhow, the primer starts DNA Polymerase off during replication.