Marfan syndrome (also called Marfan's syndrome) is a genetic disorder of connective tissue. It has a variable clinical presentation, ranging from mild to severe systemic disease. The most serious manifestations involve defects of the heart valves and aorta, which may lead to early death if not properly managed. Marfan syndrome is caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene on chromosome 15, which encodes fibrillin-1, a glycoprotein component of the extracellular matrix.
Marfan syndrome is a disorder that affects the connective tissue in many parts of the body. Connective tissue provides strength and flexibility to structures such as bones, ligaments, muscles, blood vessels, and heart valves. 
Print. Marfan syndrome in humans is caused by an abnormality of the connective tissue protein fibrillin. Patients are usually very tall and thin, with long spindly fingers, curvature of the spine, sometimes weakened arterial walls, and sometimes ocular problems, such as lens dislocation. 
Marfan Syndrome is a genetic disorder of the connective tissue in your body. The damage caused by Marfan syndrome can be mild or severe. The most serious effects of Marfan syndrome can be life-threatening. People with Marfan syndrome are usually tall and thin, with disproportionately long arms, legs, fingers and toes. 
The syndrome is caused by the misfolding of fibrillin-1, a glycoprotein which forms elastic fibers in connective tissue and contributes to cell signaling activity by binding to and sequestering transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β). Marfan syndrome is caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene on chromosome 15, which encodes fibrillin-1, a glycoprotein component of the extracellular matrix.
Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the body’s connective tissue. Connective tissue holds all the body’s cells, organs and tissue together. It also plays an important role in helping the body grow and develop properly. Connective tissue is made up of proteins. The protein that plays a role in Marfan syndrome is called fibrillin-1. Marfan syndrome is caused by a defect (or mutation) in the gene that tells the body how to make fibrillin-1.
Many of these disorders are genetic conditions that, like Marfan syndrome, cause the aorta (the main blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body) to enlarge, a problem that requires medicine and regular monitoring to determine appropriate treatment. There are disorders related to Marfan syndrome that can cause people to struggle with some of the same or similar physical problems. Some examples are Loeys-Dietz syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and Familial Thoracic Aortic Aneurysm and Dissection.
A. A. A. Marfan syndrome is an inherited disease that affects the body's connective tissue, which provides the strength, support, and elasticity to tendons, cartilage, heart valves, blood vessels, and other vital parts of the body. 
Marfan Syndrome. Marfan syndrome involves the body's connective tissue and is characterized by abnormalities in the skeleton, heart, and eyes. It is caused by an abnormal gene * that usually is inherited. People with Marfan syndrome are generally taller than average, have little body fat, and have long: thin fingers
Overview. Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder. A mutation, or change, in the gene that controls how the body makes fibrillin causes Marfan syndrome. Fibrillin is a protein that plays a major role in your body's connective tissue. Most people who have Marfan syndrome inherit it from their parents.