The most abundant fiber in connective tissues is a tough protein called collagen. Tendons, ligaments, and the white stringy tissue (fascia) seen in some cuts of meat are composed almost entirely of collagen, as is leather, which consists of the connective tissue layer (dermis) of animal skins. Collagen also strengthens bone and cartilage. Elastic and reticular fibers are less abundant connective tissue proteins with a more limited distribution. The ground substance may be liquid, as in blood; gelatinous, as in areolar tissue; rubbery, as in cartilage; or calcified and stony, as in bone.
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. Other kinds of connective tissues include fibrous, elastic, and lymphoid connective tissues. Fibroblasts are the cells responsible for the production of some CT. Type-I collagen, is present in many forms of connective tissue, and makes up about 25% of the total protein content of the mammalian body.
For example, red and white blood cells are found in blood, which is a fluid connective tissue. Adipocytes are fat cells found in adipose tissue, or fat. And fibroblasts are cells found in large quantities in many different types of connective tissues. Because the types of connective tissue vary greatly, so do their functions. Adipose, or fat tissue, is a loose connective tissue that is specialized for storage. Although some people may have more adipose tissue than they would like, it does serve the important purpose of warmth and elasticity of certain organs.
Adipose Tissue is a loose fibrous connective tissue that is packed with many fat cells (called  adipocytes ): Adipose tissue forms a thick layer under the skin, around the kidneys and in the buttocks. More generally, it is found at the same locations throughout the body as areolar connective tissue. Adipose Tissue is a loose fibrous connective tissue packed with many cells (called  adipocytes ) that are specialized for storage of triglycerides more commonly referred to as  fats . Each adipocyte cell is filled with a single large droplet of triglyceride (fat).
Both the cells and the fibres are embedded in the intercellular substance. The consistency of this substance is highly variable from gelatin-like to a much more rigid material. The proportions of the cells, fibres, and intercellular substance vary, depending on a particular nature and function of the connective tissue. Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them.
All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water. Other kinds of connective tissues include fibrous, elastic, and lymphoid connective tissues. Fibroblasts are the cells responsible for the production of some CT. Type-I collagen, is present in many forms of connective tissue, and makes up about 25% of the total protein content of the mammalian body.
2.0 The Structure of adipose tissue. Adipose Tissue is a loose fibrous connective tissue packed with many cells (called  adipocytes ) that are specialized for storage of triglycerides more commonly referred to as  fats . Each adipocyte cell is filled with a single large droplet of triglyceride (fat).
Connective Tissue This is the most widespread and abundant type of tissue in the human body. Its function is primarily to support, anchor and connect various parts of the body. Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them.
Loose connective tissue is primarily located beneath epithelial membranes and glandular epithelium, binding these epithelia to other tissues, contributing to the formation of organs. 
Areolar and reticular tissue are types of loose connective tissue that provide support, as well as fill up unused spaces in the body. Blood, a fluid connective tissue, provides a transport system within our body for oxygen and other important substances. Because the types of connective tissue vary greatly, so do their functions. Adipose, or fat tissue, is a loose connective tissue that is specialized for storage. Although some people may have more adipose tissue than they would like, it does serve the important purpose of warmth and elasticity of certain organs.