Microchip Cost. The cost of a microchip for your dog is relatively affordable. Most animal shelters and some pet shops include microchip services at no additional cost beyond the regular adoption or purchase fee. Microchip Overview. A microchip is to your dog what the LoJack Vehicle Recovery System would be to your car. No bigger than a grain of rice, a microchip is a radio-frequency identification implant that provides your dog with permanent ID.
The Cost of a Dog Microchip. The average costs of a dog microchip are between $20 and $50, but this doesn’t include the veterinary procedure of placing the chip. The procedure can cost an additional $50 to $100. However, you may find higher costs as well. The cost of a dog microchip may be variable and will depend on: 1  The type of microchips, as there are low cost chips and high end chips; talk to your vet about the options you have. Pet Microchip. A pet microchip is a modern means of identification for your pet. Often name tags may get lost, if your dog loses his collar or he is stolen. The microchip is an invisible name tag that will also contain your contact info and should the dog get lost and found, you will be notified to get your dog.
1 The cost of a microchipping a dog is a rather inexpensive procedure. 2  The cost of microchipping is going to widely vary depending on the adoption agency doing the procedure and the breed of dog that will have the microchip installed. 1 If you plan on adopting a dog or cat, many local shelters will perform the microchip feature at a fraction of the cost. 2  Your pet may have already been microchipped if you recently adopted one. 3  If you think that this is the case, take it to your vet’s office where they can check it for you.
1 On average, the microchip for dogs cost can be anywhere from $20 to as much as $60 to have the chip implanted. 2  It will normally cost another $10 to $30 to have the dog registered in the national database. 1 If you plan on adopting a dog or cat, many local shelters will perform the microchip feature at a fraction of the cost. 2  Your pet may have already been microchipped if you recently adopted one. 3  If you think that this is the case, take it to your vet’s office where they can check it for you.
· just now. Report Abuse. If you can find a microchip clinic being sponsored by a humane society shelter or a local kennel club you can probably get it done for $20 - $30. If you go to your vet you'll likely spend more in the range of $50 - $75. Sally B · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Best Answer. Microchipping costs the same, regardless of the breed and size of dog. However, prices for microchipping vary widely, depending on where you're at. I had Abby chipped while we were at the K-9 Games and it cost me $35. My local vets all charged in the area of $50 for the same thing
Report Abuse. Our clinic charges $50 to insert a microchip. Once your dog is microchiped, you will have to register him with the company you used to microchip him (AVID, HomeAgain, etc.). HomeAgain charges $17.50 for a one-time registration fee and AVID charges $18.00. 
Depending on the type of microchip and whether your dog gets the procedure at a veterinary office, a microchipping clinic or a participating pet supply store, the one-time fee generally ranges from $25 to $50. Microchip Overview. A microchip is to your dog what the LoJack Vehicle Recovery System would be to your car. No bigger than a grain of rice, a microchip is a radio-frequency identification implant that provides your dog with permanent ID.