Perhaps you can look into jobs with the title of behavioral modification counselor or technician or social service assistant to allow you experience in the counseling field until you can get your license. 
Differs from the Social Service Counselor job series by presence of recognition as a Licensed Professional Counselor-Intern or a Marriage and Family Therapy... 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Louisiana State Government jobs in Leesville, LA-Leesville jobs. Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor. He/she will be independently licensed and will provide consultation and guidance to colleagues, role-model effective social work practice, develop innovations
Someone may be a Board-approved supervisor of Counselor Interns, but this does not mean they may supervise any Counselor Intern. In order to comply with current laws and Board rules, LPC-Supervisors must be approved by the Board as the Board-approved LPC-S for each Counselor Intern they wish to supervise. Any changes of address need to be made in writing to the Board. We can accept a letter, e-mail, or fax. You must indicate on your letter whether the change is in regards to your home and/or work address. Also, please note which address you wish to publish on the LPC Board's website.
Licensed professional counselor (LPC) is a designation for counseling professionals who've satisfied certain requirements. Specific titles differ by state, but most counselors recognized with this certification are known as licensed mental health counselors (LMHC) and permitted to practice professionally. 
1 The Mississippi Board of Examiners for Licensed Professional Counselors purpose is to provide for the regulation and practice of counseling as well as the use of the title Licensed Professional Counselor to ensure the protection of the public heath, safety and welfare of the citizens of the State of Mississippi. 
Instructions. Earn a professional degree. Before you can get licensed as an LPC, you need to earn a degree in counseling at the master's or doctoral level from an accredited university. In addition to coursework on counseling methods and human behavior, your degree should also have involved an internship. In Texas, for example, the license is issued for five years. Check with your state's board of mental health professionals to determine how long your temporary license will last. Complete supervised practice. Once you receive your temporary license, you can begin your
As soon as you receive your LPC certificate, it’s time to put it to use. Find a job that stimulates you mentally and lets you fulfill the dreams that led you to choose your degree. A Licensed Professional Counselor must have a master’s degree or a doctorate, so career options are wide open for a new certificate-holder. 
1 Before you submit your packet to the Texas State Board of Examiners of Professional Counselors, you need to apply to take the NCE and pass the exam. 2  The application is found at nbcc.org. 3  Click on Texas, print, and fill out the application. 4  Send this in along with a check for $185, and your official sealed transcript. Here’s the process from graduation to obtaining your LPC-Intern license in Texas (this is not to say it won’t change but as of the beginning of 2011 this was the path that led to me getting my LPC-Intern license 1  …. You have to graduate before you can apply to take the NCE. 2  Your transcripts must say “graduated”.
The Legal Practice Course (LPC) – also known as the Postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practice – is the final vocational stage for becoming a solicitor in England and Wales. The course is designed to provide a bridge between academic study and training in a law firm. It is not uncommon for law firms to provide sponsorship to LPC students as part of a job offer. Generally sponsorship is only offered by wealthy commercial practices, although a limited number of legal aid sponsorship packages (funded by the Law Society of England and Wales) do exist.
Get your temporary license. In most states, you will receive a temporary LPC license after meeting the educational requirements and passing the required exams. You usually cannot renew this license. In Texas, for example, the license is issued for five years. Check with your state's board of mental health professionals to determine how long your temporary license will last. Complete supervised practice. Once you receive your temporary license, you can begin your supervised practice.