During normal usage of the brakes, brake pads wear out and become thinner. If the thickness of brake pads is less than 3mm, it is time to change the pads. Depending on where you drive (city driving tends to wear pads out quicker) brake pads usually last between 30,000-35,000 miles. Some vehicles (eg. BMW’s) are equipped with a low-pad-warning system. In these vehicles, you will also need to replace the brake sensors as part of the brake pad service. How It's Done: 1  Inspect brake pads. 2  Install new pads if thickness is less than 3mm. 3  Inspect: rotors, calipers, hoses, and brake fluid condition. 4  Perform a basic safety inspection. 5  Test drive the vehicle.
Stay on top of your vehicle's brake pads or brake shoes to ensure a safer ride. Don't wait for an unpleasant surprise—brake pads and brake shoes normally last between 20,000 and 40,000 miles, depending on driving conditions. Some have disc brakes in the front and drum brakes in the rear. Your disc brake pads handle up to 75% of your vehicle's braking needs. Braking power may be severely reduced if brake pads are worn thin.
Brake Services. From drum brakes to disc brakes, calipers and rotors, to shoes and pads, the highly trained technicians at Jiffy Lube® know your brake system and can perform brake inspections and brake pad replacements on almost every make and model. 
1 For work on front and back brakes, CostHelper readers reported paying $273-$1,025 for an average of $567 at standard repair shops, or $280-$935 for an average of $578 at dealerships. 1 Edmunds provides do-it-yourself instructions for replacing brake pads, calling it an easier-than-expected DIY project that requires standard tools and takes about an hour, for a savings of about $250 in labor costs on most cars.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: some people might try to charge upwards of $150 for new brake pads.. If you look on the shop website if its a major place, you can find a place that can do it for $99 or sometimes $69. Ideally you want them to put new brake pads and resurface/machine the rotors. But if your car has ABS make sure you don't just compress the piston back. See this video to get an idea: http://www.expertvillage.com/interviews/... If you want to get a pro, it should be basically the cost of the pad plus about 2 or 3 hours of labor cost MAX. Good Luck