The demand for crushed stone is determined mostly by the level of construction activity, and, therefore, the demand for construction materials. U.S. production of crushed stone recorded a significant growth in the past 40 years, from 229 million metric tons in 1950 to 1.1 billion metric tons in 1990. 
Crushed stone and rock have many uses around the home. The stone is used for mulch, ground cover, driveways and as filler. Crushed stone sizes vary from dust to about 4″ which allows it to be used for a plethora of applications. They can be used in both construction-type applications as well as agricultural or garden-type projects.
The types used to make crushed stone in the United States during 2014 include the following: limestone, granite, trap rock, sandstone, quartzite, dolomite, volcanic cinder and scoria, marble, slate, shell, and calcareous marl [1]. Their relative importance is shown in the pie chart in the right column of this page. Trap rock is a layman's name used for any dark-colored igneous rock that is used in construction. Basalt, peridotite, diabase, and gabbro are examples of trap rock. Granite and trap rock are the second and third most commonly used types of rocks for producing crushed stone.
Screenings or dust particles are used for concrete block manufacturing. This particular crushed rock is known as #10. Crushed rock #67 ranges in sizes from 3/4 inches to a size of fine particles and is used as a slab, road and fill base. Another crushed stone is #411, which is a mixture of #57 stone and stone dust. This mixture is used as a base for retaining walls, roads and for patching holes in pavement. Mixing in dust with the larger stone improves its ability to settle.
Fine aggregates generally consist of natural sand or crushed stone with most particles passing through a 3/8-inch sieve. Coarse aggregates are any particles greater than 0.19 inch, but generally range between 3/8 and 1.5 inches in diameter. Aggregates are inert granular materials such as sand, gravel, or crushed stone that, along with water and portland cement, are an essential ingredient in concrete.
Crushed stone is a versatile material used for many purposes. Those purposes range from base material for pavers and bricks to dressing up areas for driving or walking. Crushed stone grades are categorized by the size of the stone after it has been crushed. The stone is used in various industries from construction to agriculture. Even though crushed stone is a low-value commodity it is a good indicator of the health of an economy since it is widely used in the construction industry. Worldwide deposits of stone resources are huge.
Crushed stone or angular rock is a form of construction aggregate, typically produced by mining a suitable rock deposit and breaking the removed rock down to the desired size using crushers. In 2006, 9.40 million tonnes of crushed stone (almost all limestone or dolomite) was used for soil treatment, primarily to reduce soil acidity. Soils tend to become acidic from heavy use of nitrogen-containing fertilizers, unless a soil conditioner is used.
Most crushed stone is used in highway construction and building construction. In the construction of a two-lane asphalt highway, about 25,000 tons of crushed stone is used per mile. In building a small residential subdivision, about 300 tons of crushed stone is used per home [2]. Trap rock is a layman's name used for any dark-colored igneous rock that is used in construction. Basalt, peridotite, diabase, and gabbro are examples of trap rock. Granite and trap rock are the second and third most commonly used types of rocks for producing crushed stone.
Harsco Crushed Rock is a steel slag aggregate which is hard, durable and drains well. Its cubical shape locks the aggregate together. Used as an alternative to limestone or gravel for driveways, landscaping back yards, chip and seal roads, parking lots, trench backfill, Riprap, culverts and more. 
Crushed stone is not a standard commodity.. It is made by mining one of several types of rock such as limestone, granite, trap rock, scoria, basalt, dolomite, or sandstone; crushing the rock; and, then screening the crushed rock to sizes that are suitable for the intended end use. Crushed stone is the world's most basic mineral commodity. Trap rock is a layman's name used for any dark-colored igneous rock that is used in construction. Basalt, peridotite, diabase, and gabbro are examples of trap rock. Granite and trap rock are the second and third most commonly used types of rocks for producing crushed stone.