5. Improve Your Balance and Posture. To do a plank correctly, you must engage your abs to stay upright. Side planks or planks with extensions are particularly beneficial for building balance, as are planks performed on a stability ball. To increase the stretching benefits, try a rocking plank – once in basic plank form, rock your body back and forth by moving your toes a few inches either way. 4. Improve Your Mood. Virtually every exercise has the potential to give you a mood boost, and planks are no exception.
BENEFITS. Plank helps you to build strength in your core, upper and lower body so its a good full body work out. You do not need any equipment to perform this exercise all you need is a bit of space, and it really helps improve flexibility by stretching muscles and will improve posture if performed regularly.
If you push yourself a little, doing planks are not easy and the benefits are outstanding. Top 5 Benefits of doing Planks. 1. Works your upper abs, your lower abs, your obliques, and your lower back (do standard and side planks to work your entire abs). 2. Builds the stabilizer muscles. Let me set the record straight: planks, when done correctly and for the appropriate length of time and number of sets are not easy. Try holding a plank for 2 minutes, resting for 1 minute and then repeating for a total of 3 to 5 sets. For me, that’s hard. For someone else, that may be easy.
By Dr. Mercola. With exercise, sometimes the simplest of movements result in the greatest gains to your fitness, and this is certainly the case with planks. To do a plank, you hold your body (the trunk portion) off the ground, making sure to hold it in a straight line. To increase the stretching benefits, try a rocking plank – once in basic plank form, rock your body back and forth by moving your toes a few inches either way. 4. Improve Your Mood. Virtually every exercise has the potential to give you a mood boost, and planks are no exception.
Plank exercises have aesthetic benefits that can enhance your appearance by improving posture. Planks activate core muscles, including the transverse abdominis and iliopsoas, which stabilize your spine and hips. Plank exercises help prevent or reverse postural deficiencies, including lordosis and posterior pelvic tilt. Isometric exercises, such as planks, can help you get past strength-training plateaus and improve energy transference between your upper body and lower body. Plank exercises, in particular, benefit multiple elements of physical fitness and your general well-being.
If you really want to work on your balance, planks on a stability ball are a good challenge, as well. Try a side plank with leg raise: Get into a side plank with your legs stacked. Lift your top leg up and hold for a count of one. Lower it and repeat. Switch sides after working your first side. 4. They test your balance. One of the reasons that planks and side planks are such great core exercises is that they require you to engage your abs to the max in order to stay upright. Particularly during side planks or planks with extensions, your balance is tested and therefore, improved
Advanced planks. 1  Do planks on your hands. 2  Use an exercise ball or BOSU ball. 3  Place your feet on the exercise ball or BOSU ball and do your standard plank on your hands. 4  Side planks. 5  After you have raised yourself to an advanced plank position, rotate your body to one side so you are only supporting yourself with one hand. Let me set the record straight: planks, when done correctly and for the appropriate length of time and number of sets are not easy. Try holding a plank for 2 minutes, resting for 1 minute and then repeating for a total of 3 to 5 sets. For me, that’s hard. For someone else, that may be easy.
Plank exercises might provide mental benefits that improve your mood. Plank exercises stretch muscles that commonly stiffen throughout the day and contribute to stress. Sitting at your desk might tighten muscles along the back of your thighs when your legs remain bent for several hours. Isometric exercises, such as planks, can help you get past strength-training plateaus and improve energy transference between your upper body and lower body. Plank exercises, in particular, benefit multiple elements of physical fitness and your general well-being.