DEFINITION: APA format is a specific writing style endorsed by the American Psychological Association. Students, researchers and professionals know that information in an APA style format is found in a specific format.
Flush left. Alignment of the left side of the page, screen, or margin. The text in this paragraph is flush left with the cell that contains it, however, the right side of this text is not justified so it is considered flush left with ragged right.
I am writing a research paper on dissociative identity disorder and I need a header or a running head but but that is a short form of the title but my title is my topic DID . Can I use it as both the header and title? Also what does flush right or left mean?
The APA running header is a shortened version of the paper's title. The header is situated in the upper left hand corner of each page, to remind the reader of the paper's topic. The header is flush left, whereas the page numbers are flush right.
Place your cursor to the left of the page number in the header text box and type in 'Running head:' plus the title of your work in ALL CAPS. Make sure that the capitalized portion is no more than 50 characters with spaces. Then, use the tab function to move the page number to the farthest right in the text box.
The title page should contain the title of the paper, the author's name, and the institutional affiliation. Include the page header (described above) flush left with the page number flush right at the top of the page.
HEADER: An APA cover page has a header with page numbers right-aligned. Then an abbreviated title is inserted flush left. For the title page only, the abbreviated title is preceded by the words “Running Head:” All pages after the title page must have the abbreviated title only flush left and page numbers flush right.
Identify each page with the Running head (flush left) and the page number is flush right. Do not use your name to identify each page. Again, use the automatic function of the word-processor as illustrated in this picture. Be sure the font type and size is the same as that used in the document.