Protein is an important component of every cell in the body. Hair and nails are mostly made of protein. Your body uses protein to build and repair tissues. You also use protein to make enzymes, hormones, and other body chemicals. Protein is an important building block of bones, muscles, cartilage, skin, and blood. Along with fat and carbohydrates, protein is a macronutrient, meaning that the body needs relatively large amounts of it. Vitamins and minerals, which are needed in only small quantities, are called micronutrients..
In order to make the protein your body needs, it must obtain the protein building blocks, the amino acids, from the proteins in food. Although vegetables and grains do provide some protein, you get most of your protein from nuts, legumes, eggs, fish, meats, and dairy products. 
Consume whey protein isolate as a good source of vitamin B-12. Whey protein -- a type of milk protein typically available in powdered form at health food and specialty stores as well as some grocery stores -- serves as an excellent source of protein. Vitamin B-12 in Whey Protein. Whey protein provides a moderate amount of vitamin B-12. A 1/4 cup of sweet whey powder contains 0.18 micrograms of vitamin B-12, which is 8 percent of your recommended daily intake.
Gelatin is a protein that doesn't contain vitamins. Protein on its own does not contain vitamins. Luckily, the proteins in your diet aren’t isolated. The protein-containing foods you consume every day supply a variety of essential vitamins. Most sources of protein are good sources of all the B vitamins. Animal-based proteins are excellent sources of vitamin B-12, while legumes are rich in folate. You'll also get vitamins A and D from select protein foods
Whey protein is a popular diet supplement among people of all ages. Baby formulas include it, as do nutrition shakes for the elderly. Weight-loss supplements contain whey powder as an appetite suppressor, yet young men buy whey protein powder by the gallon in hopes of building muscle mass. 
Fatty Fish. Some of the best sources of vitamin D are the same fatty fish that also provide heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids. The amount of vitamin D you’ll get varies from 152 to 447 international units, or IU. Salmon is at the top of the list with 447 IU in a 3-ounce serving. Beef Liver. While meat is a well-known source of protein -- about 25 grams of complete protein per 3-ounce serving -- most types of meat do not contain a significant amount of vitamin D. Beef liver is an exception.
Combine whey protein with other ingredients to prepare beverages rich in vitamin B-12. For example, a simple protein shake made from a serving of whey protein isolate and a cup of low-fat milk provides 2.2 micrograms of vitamin B-12. Blending 1/2 cup of yogurt into your drink increases the B-12 content to 2.4 micrograms, or your entire daily requirement. Vitamin B-12 in Whey Protein. Whey protein provides a moderate amount of vitamin B-12. A 1/4 cup of sweet whey powder contains 0.18 micrograms of vitamin B-12, which is 8 percent of your recommended daily intake.
There are seven main classes of nutrients that the body needs. These are carbohydrates, proteins, fats, vitamins, minerals, fiber and water. It is important to consume these seven nutrients on a daily basis to build and maintain health. The main sources of carbohydrates are plants, e.g., starch (storage forms carbohydrate of chlorophyll containing plants), sugars, cereals, potatoes, legumes, millets, roots and other vegetables. Sugars are found in fruits, juice, cane, honey, palm, milk, etc.