The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. However, consider a child's age and maturity level. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12.
Children between ages 7 and 10 years aren't generally ready to self-supervise for an extended period, but in a routine and predictable environment, such as just after school, they can manage, Tanner said. Children 12 and 13 years old should be judged on a case-by-case basis but should not be left alone overnight.
Under Maryland law, a child must be at least eight years old to be left alone in a house or car. State law also says a child must be at least 13 years old to baby-sit another child. Generally, it is left up to the parent to decide whether a child who is at least eight is mature enough to be home alone. Any time you leave your child alone, be sure the child knows what to do in case of an emergency.
Georgia’s Guidelines for leaving a child without adult supervision: 1  Children under 8 years old should never be left alone, even for short periods of time. 2  Children between the ages of 9 and 12, based on level of maturity, can be left home alone for brief
8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods). It is important to note that no two children are alike, and parents must decide on a case-by-case basis what is best for their child.
Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone.