The gray wolf is a habitat generalist, and can occur in deserts, grasslands, forests and arctic tundras. Habitat use by gray wolves is strongly correlated with the abundance of prey, snow conditions, absence or low livestock densities, road densities, human presence and topography. The gray wolf or grey wolf (Canis lupus) also known as the timber wolf, or western wolf, is a canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America and Eurasia. It is the largest extant member of its family, with males averaging 43–45 kg (95–99 lb), and females 36–38.5 kg (79–85 lb).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The habitat of a gray wolf has lots of trees and forest. The gray wolfs live mostly in idaho, Montana, Wyoming, and Oregon. Gray Wolves live in the rocky mountains. No that is not the case everywhere. Gray wovles also live in the wild near Minnesota and Wisconson. Gray wolves are found in North Am … erica, Europe, Asia, and the arctic.
It depends what kind of wolf you are talking about. Gray wolves (Canis Lupus) can live in the snow and often do. However, overall many wolves live in Canada, Alaska, Idaho, Mi … chigan, Minnesota, Montana, Wisconsin, Wyoming, and New Mexico. Gray Wolves live in the rocky mountains. No that is not the case everywhere. Gray wovles also live in the wild near Minnesota and Wisconson. Gray wolves are found in North Am … erica, Europe, Asia, and the arctic.
By the mid-1930s, most gray wolves in the United States had been killed. Today, the gray wolf's North American range has been reduced to Canada and parts of Alaska, Idaho, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Oregon, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Mexican wolves, a gray wolf subspecies, are found in New Mexico and Arizona. 
The gray wolves habitat needs to be a very large area that is all wildland. They also need a large number of prey in this area so they can hunt. Theses wolves can survive in many different areas. These areas include deserts, forests, mountains, tundras, and plains. 
Habitat Today. The gray wolf lives today in a diverse range of environments, including tundra, mountain areas, woodlands, forests, grasslands and deserts. An estimated 7,000 wolves live in Alaska. About 5,000 gray wolves inhabit the lower 48 states, more in Idaho, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Outside of the United States, gray wolves inhabit Canada, Poland, Scandinavia, Russia, Portugal, Spain and Italy. The gray wolf originated in Eurasia and made its way to North America more than 750,000 years ago. The gray wolf's habitat grew to cover most of the Northern Hemisphere and eventually came to inhabit the largest range of any mammal in history save the lions.
What they eat: Gray wolves are carnivorous -- they primarily eat meat. Wolves often hunt in packs for large prey such as deer, moose, sheep, goats, caribou, elk, bison, and muskox. Wolves also prey on rodents, beavers, fish, and birds. Behavior: Gray wolves are territorial and live in packs lead by the alpha pair.
Hunting and habitat destruction have caused a steep decline in populations. Gray wolves are now found only in a few areas of Canada and the United States. Wild wolves live in these states: Alaska, Idaho, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Wolves often hunt in packs for large prey such as deer, moose, sheep, goats, caribou, elk, bison, and muskox. Wolves also prey on rodents, beavers, fish, and birds. Behavior: Gray wolves are territorial and live in packs lead by the alpha pair.
Habitat and Range. Wolves can thrive in a diversity of habitats from the tundra to woodlands, forests, grasslands and deserts. Today, gray wolves have populations in Alaska, northern Michigan, northern Wisconsin, western Montana, northern Idaho, northeast Oregon and the Yellowstone area of Wyoming. Mexican wolves, a subspecies of the gray wolf, were reintroduced to protected parkland in eastern Arizona and southwest New Mexico. Size: Wolves vary in size depending on where they live. Wolves in the north are usually larger than those in the south. The average size of a wolf's body is 3-5 feet long. Their tails are usually 1-2 feet long. Females typically weigh 60-100 pounds, and males weigh 70-145 pounds