Bake the Brisket. 1  Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Pour the cooking liquid over the meat. 3  Cover the pan with foil. 4  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. Bake the Brisket. 1  Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Cover the pan with foil. 3  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time.
7. Remove the meat when fork-tender. Depending on the size and variety of the cut you're braising, it should cook between 2 and 4 hours to reach its most tender state, and reach an internal temperature of around 160 F. When the beef is done, it should literally fall apart with very little pressure from a fork. Depending on what you want to do with the beef you braise, you might elect to make a one-pot meal with the addition of vegetables. In most braising, some variety of aromatic vegetable will always be used to keep the moisture consistent in the bottom of the pot, as well as to release other flavors and aromas.
1 Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Pour the cooking liquid over the meat. 3  Cover the pan with foil. 4  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. Bake the Brisket. 1  Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Cover the pan with foil. 3  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time.
5. Braise the beef brisket in the oven for 3–4 hours. Heat up the oven to 400°F, and move the racks so the braising pan will fit in the middle. Once the oven is up to heat, cover and place it in the oven. Braise for 3–4 hours, flipping the brisket every hour. If the pan is getting too dry after 2 hours, you may want to add more wine, stock, or water. Once the brisket is fork tender, let it rest for 30 minutes in its own juice before slicing. Cut it against or across the grain, and serve with the pan juices.
1 How long it takes for meat to get tender in a braise or slow cook method depends on the size of the cut, thickness of the cut, and the amount of collagen in it. 2  Working cuts like chuck, rump, neck, shin, etc have lots of collagen and need a longer slow cook to break it all down. Things to remember: 1 
When the beef is done cooking, remove it from the braising liquid, set it on a plate or a carving board, and cover it with foil to retain the heat. Braised beef should rest for at least 10 or 15 minutes before you carve it. 1  You can carve braised beef however you wish to serve it, depending on the particular cut. Depending on what you want to do with the beef you braise, you might elect to make a one-pot meal with the addition of vegetables. In most braising, some variety of aromatic vegetable will always be used to keep the moisture consistent in the bottom of the pot, as well as to release other flavors and aromas.
1 Bring the braising liquid back to a simmer, then cover the pan with a tight-fitting lid and transfer it to the 300°F oven. 2  Braise for 1 to 5 hours, depending on the size of the meat. 3  Figure about an hour per pound. 4  Remove the pan from the oven. 1 Remove the pan from the oven. 2  To make a sauce or gravy from the braising liquid, first make a roux, then whisk some of the braising liquid (strain it first) into the roux until it thickens. 3  Cook on low heat for a few minutes, then season. 4  Here's more about how to make gravy.
1 The liquid should just barely cover the meat. 2  You can now add other flavorings and seasonings, like whole peppercorns or bay leaves. 3  Bring the braising liquid back to a simmer, then cover the pan with a tight-fitting lid and transfer it to the 300°F oven. 4  Braise for 1 to 5 hours, depending on the size of the meat. 1 Remove the pan from the oven. 2  To make a sauce or gravy from the braising liquid, first make a roux, then whisk some of the braising liquid (strain it first) into the roux until it thickens. 3  Cook on low heat for a few minutes, then season. 4  Here's more about how to make gravy.