Spice Description. Lemongrass is a long thick grass with leaves at the top and a solid portion several inches long at the root end. The lower portion is sliced or pounded and used in cooking. As a spice, fresh lemon grass is preferred for its vibrant flavour, but is also sold in dried form.
Lemon grass is one of the useful herbs people can benefit from in a varitey of ways. What most people do not know is that lemon grass is one of the most commonly used herbs in almost every civilization. Other names for the lemon grass are cymbopogon, lemongrass or fever grass.
It is also known as 'choomana poolu' and is also referred to as 'Indian Verbena' or 'Indian Melissa oil'. Lemon grass oil is a valuable ingredient in cosmetics, perfumes and as fragrances for soaps and insect repellants. Lemongrass is reportedly has a wide variety of therapeutic application.
Lemon grass (Cymbopogon citratus), a native of India, is widely used in Thai and Vietnamese cooking. Lemon grass is a perennial, which means once you plant it, the grass comes back year after year. Depending on the area you live in the plant will go dormant in the winter.
Cymbopogon citratus also known as Lemongrass is an herb which belongs to the grass family of Poaceae. It is well known and utilized for its distinct lemon flavor and citrusy aroma. Lemongrass is a tall, perennial grass which is native to India and tropical regions of Asia.
It is a tall perennial grass that is grown in Southeast Asia and Sri Lanka. Lemongrass also known as Citronella Grass or Fever Grass is a tall perennial grass belonging to the Africa and Old Eurasian countries. It is a widely used herb in Asian (particularly Thai, Lao, Khmer and Vietnamese and Caribbean) cooking. The grass has a lemony flavour.
Lemongrass is a perennial plant with thin, long leaves and is indigenous to India and other areas of the Asian continent including Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam. It is also common in Ceylon, Central America, China, Guatemala, India, Java, Madagascar, Sri Lanka, the West Indian islands and Zambia.
Aside from cooking, it can also be used for other purposes. In India, the lemon grass can be utilized as element in perfumes. Most people may be familiar to citronella which is actually another popular name for lemon grass. The citronella is a common element for supporting the scents of soaps, perfumes and candles.