One of the causes of this disease could be the human age. As people get aged spinal discs break down, or degenerate, which may result in degenerative disc disease. These age r … elated changes can include the loss of fluid in your discs. It would be better to … say that Osteoporosis is one of the most common causes of degenerative bone disease; but DBD can be the result of several disorders/diseases that affects the bones.
Yes and no. It is degenerative in the sense that it damages neurons in cognitive and emotional areas of the brain (in a similar fashion that Parkinson's Disease damages neuron … s in parts of the brain that control motor function), especially if depression goes undiagnosed and untreated over a long period of time. It would be better to … say that Osteoporosis is one of the most common causes of degenerative bone disease; but DBD can be the result of several disorders/diseases that affects the bones.
Degenerative, Movement, and Seizure Disorder Partial paralysis and lack of muscular coordination caused by loss of oxygen (hypoxia) or blood flow to the cerebrum during pregnancy or in the perinatal period. Degenerative, Movement, and Seizure Disorder Degeneration of neurons in the basal ganglia, occurring in later life and leading to tremors, weakness of muscles, and slowness of movement.
Organizations. Cerebellar degeneration is a process in which neurons in the cerebellum-the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance-deteriorate and die. 1 multiple sclerosis, in which damage to the insulating membrane (myelin) that wraps around and protects nerve cells can involve the cerebellum Other diseases that can cause cerebellar degeneration include:
Parkinson disease (parkinsonism). Degenerative, Movement, and Seizure Disorder Degeneration of neurons in the basal ganglia, occurring in later life and leading to tremors, weakness of muscles, and slowness of movement.
Diseases that cause cerebellar degeneration can also involve other areas of the central nervous system,including the spinal cord, medulla oblongata, cerebral cortex, and brain stem. 1 multiple sclerosis, in which damage to the insulating membrane (myelin) that wraps around and protects nerve cells can involve the cerebellum Other diseases that can cause cerebellar degeneration include:
1 ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke, when there is lack of blood flow or oxygen to the cerebellum. 2  cerebellar cortical atrophy, multisystem atrophy, and olivopontocerebellar degeneration, progressive degenerative disorders in which cerebellar degeneration is a key feature. 1 multiple sclerosis, in which damage to the insulating membrane (myelin) that wraps around and protects nerve cells can involve the cerebellum Other diseases that can cause cerebellar degeneration include:
hemorrhagic stroke. Vascular Disorder A blood vessel, such as the cerebral artery, breaks and bleeding occurs. This type of stroke can be fatal and results from advancing age, atherosclerosis, or high blood pressure, all of which result in degeneration of cerebral blood vessels. Degenerative, Movement, and Seizure Disorder Degeneration of neurons in the basal ganglia, occurring in later life and leading to tremors, weakness of muscles, and slowness of movement.
Cerebral atrophy is a common feature of many of the diseases that affect the brain. Atrophy of any tissue means a decrement in the size of the cell, which can be due to progressive loss of cytoplasmic proteins. In brain tissue, atrophy describes a loss of neurons and the connections between them. 
Cerebellar Degeneration. Cerebellar degeneration is a process in which neurons in the cerebellum-the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance-deteriorate and die. Discovering these genes, identifying their mutations, and understanding how the abnormal proteins they produce cause cerebellar degeneration may eventually help scientists find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that involve cerebellar d