A tumor is an abnormal growth of cells that serves no purpose. A benign tumor is not a malignant tumor, which is cancer. It does not invade nearby tissue or spread to other parts of the body the way cancer can. In most cases, the outlook with benign tumors is very good. But benign tumors can be serious if they press on vital structures such as blood vessels or nerves. In many cases, benign tumors need no treatment. Doctors may simply use watchful waiting to make sure they cause no problems. But treatment may be needed if symptoms are a problem. Surgery is a common type of treatment for benign tumors. The goal is to remove the tumor without damaging surrounding tissues.
Both benign and cancerous fatty tumors can occur in the legs, but they have different identifying characteristics. Cancerous tumors, for example, are sometimes painful, while benign tumors are not. How fatty tumors are diagnosed and treated is the subject of this article. slide 1 of 4. 
A lipoma is a benign tumor composed of adipose tissue (body fat). It is the most common benign form of soft tissue tumor. Lipomas are soft to the touch, usually movable, and are generally painless. Many lipomas are small (under one centimeter diameter) but can enlarge to sizes greater than six centimeters. 
When a tumor is diagnosed as a lipoma (fatty tumor), it is a great relief, because these are not malignant. About 10% of all dog skin tumors are lipomas. Lipomas rarely occur in cats. Veterinarians diagnose lipomas by feel (palpation), needle biopsy, and surgical biopsy or surgical excision. All these signs help differentiate a fatty tumor from a malignant skin tumor. Fatty tumors usually develop in the skin over the trunk of a dog's body or legs; they rarely develop on the head, feet, tail, scrotum, or in the perineal area under the tail.
Causes of Lipomas. One common cause of lipomas is genetic. A patient may have several close relatives with histories of fatty tumors. Also, minor injuries may cause lipomas to develop, so it is important to monitor your body when you experience an injury. While most lipomas are found under the skin, they may be found in muscles and near organs inside the body such as the brain, the heart, or the spine. Lipomas can be diagnosed by your doctor feeling the fatty tumor.
Dogs with fatty tumors (lipomas) have a soft, non-painful swelling in the skin that slowly increases in size. The skin over the fatty tumor remains healthy and covered with hair unless the skin rubs against another part of your dog's body and is damaged by friction. All these signs help differentiate a fatty tumor from a malignant skin tumor. Fatty tumors usually develop in the skin over the trunk of a dog's body or legs; they rarely develop on the head, feet, tail, scrotum, or in the perineal area under the tail.
The lipomas or fatty tumors are a red flag that the body is not in balance and eliminating waste properly. Surgically removing the lipoma, liposuction, salve and steroid injections are all options for removing the fatty tumor but do nothing to address the original cause of the problem. 
When symptoms do occur, it is often caused by the size of the tumor and/ or proximity to other organs. In these instances, surgical intervention may be indicated. Focal Nodular Hyperplasias or FNH, are the second most common form of benign liver tumors. These tumors do not cause symptoms or require treatment. Benign (noncancerous) liver tumors are common. They do not spread to other areas of the body and they usually do not pose a serious health risk. In fact, in most cases, benign liver tumors are not diagnosed because they cause no symptoms.
The causes of lipomas, also called benign fatty tumors, vary based on the age and health condition of each patient. They are not cancerous, but they can cause discomfort and other symptoms if they grow large enough to compress nerves or interrupt other body functions. Learn about the most common causes of these tumors. While most lipomas are found under the skin, they may be found in muscles and near organs inside the body such as the brain, the heart, or the spine. Lipomas can be diagnosed by your doctor feeling the fatty tumor.