RNA interference (RNAi) is a biological process in which RNA molecules inhibit gene expression, typically by causing the destruction of specific mRNA molecules. Historically, it was known by other names, including co-suppression, post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS), and quelling. RNAi is an RNA-dependent gene silencing process that is controlled by the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) and is initiated by short double-stranded RNA molecules in a cell's cytoplasm, where they interact with the catalytic RISC component argonaute.
This page provides a key reading list on RNA interference, RNA mediated biological control of crop pests, and related biosafety issues. Further articles on RNA interference in the GMO Pundit main blog can be found via the RNAi miRNA dsRNA indexing label. Some key individual posts --including a discussion of hybrid vigour-- are accessible as links at the end of this page. New biotechnology-derived crop traits have been developed utilizing the natural process of RNA interference (RNAi). However, plant-produced double stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) are not known to present a hazard to mammals because numerous biological barriers limit uptake and potential for activity.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a cellular mechanism activated by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Cellular dsRNA-specific RNaseIII enzymes (Dicer) recognize dsRNA and process it into double-stranded small interfering RNAs (ds-siRNAs) of 21–25 nucleotides (nt). New biotechnology-derived crop traits have been developed utilizing the natural process of RNA interference (RNAi). However, plant-produced double stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) are not known to present a hazard to mammals because numerous biological barriers limit uptake and potential for activity.
Most commercially grown genetically modified (GM) crops are engineered to produce foreign proteins, but new ones are increasingly engineered to produce RNA of a special kind-double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) - that aims to interfere with the expression of a specific gene, usually to silence the gene [1] (Table 1). 
Abstract. The potential hazards posed by RNA interference (RNAi)–based pesticides and genetically modified crops to nontarget organisms include off-target gene silencing, silencing the target gene in unintended organisms, immune stimulation, and saturation of the RNAi machinery. A new peer-reviewed paper in the journal Bioscience draws attention to potential hazards on nontarget species of pesticides and GMOs made with RNA-interference (RNAi) gene-silencing techniques. These hazards could include off-target gene silencing or immune stimulation
The discovery of RNA interference earned two academics a Nobel Prize in 2006 and set off a scramble to create drugs that block disease-causing genes. Using this same technology, Monsanto now thinks it has hit on an alternative to conventional genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. 
The potential hazards posed by RNA interference (RNAi)–based pesticides and genetically modified crops to nontarget organisms include off-target gene silencing, silencing the target gene in unintended organisms, immune stimulation, and saturation of the RNAi machinery. New biotechnology-derived crop traits have been developed utilizing the natural process of RNA interference (RNAi). However, plant-produced double stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) are not known to present a hazard to mammals because numerous biological barriers limit uptake and potential for activity.