Caring for a puppy requires knowing how to take care of his coat, skin, and nails. Tips on these topics are offered here. Grooming can start right away with the new puppy. Many owners think that it is a mistake to bathe or brush dogs under six months of age. They worry that bathing will dry out the coat or that brushing may be too rough on a puppy at this age. The opposite is actually true
Best Answer: You can start taking your puppy to the groomer at about 12 weeks of age. Do not take your puppy anyplace until he has had all his vaccinations. They still have puppy fur, and you should wait until they are older, some 6 months, others more. If you are taking him for a bath good brushing,and nail trim, you can start that as soon as he has had his shots.
Grooming for a puppy is an absolute must! If your pet needs to be groomed professionally, the best time to start is after they have had all their puppy shots. This is typically around 16 weeks of age. Many people wait until the puppy is over 6 months for their first groom. However, the sooner you familiarize them with being groomed, the happier your puppy will be. I associate the puppy's first grooming experience with that of a child first dentist appointment. 
Re: When to start grooming puppy? You-can-but it will probably be much more difficult and take a lot longer than if you were to use animal clippers (depending on how good your human clippers are). When we first got our dog, I tried grooming her with our $30 human clippers and they could barely do it.. 
A. We usually see puppies like yours for the first time when they are around four months of age. Once she has had her second series of puppy shots and has been housetrained, you can take your puppy in to be groomed. It’s wise to do some research before you book an appointment. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can start taking your puppy to the groomer at about 12 weeks of age. Do not take your puppy anyplace until he has had all his vaccinations. That includes parks. At 12 weeks they should have all their shots, you can also have their rabie shot at 12 weeks. They still have puppy fur, and you should wait until they are older, some 6 months, others more. If you are taking him for a bath good brushing,and nail trim, you can start that as soon as he has had his shots.
Early Start. If you get your puppy acquainted with the grooming salon at a tender age, it generally is easier on him in the long run. The strange sights and sounds of new places can be anxiety-inducing in doggies, and the younger they experience something, the better. Not only is brushing your puppy's coat a good way for you to bond with him, it can help set the stage for his later grooming appointments. If you have any questions regarding coat trimming, talk to a professional before you proceed.
Many people wait until the puppy is over 6 months for their first groom. However, the sooner you familiarize them with being groomed, the happier your puppy will be. I associate the puppy’s first grooming experience with that of a child’s first dentist appointment. Puppy’s First Groom. Grooming for a puppy is an absolute must! If your pet needs to be groomed professionally, the best time to start is after they have had all their puppy shots. This is typically around 12 weeks of age. Setup An Appointment. It is never too early to start preparing your puppy for his or her first grooming session. When spending time together on the couch gently brush your puppy
Vaccines. Before you start walking your puppy around the block or taking him to the dog park, make sure he has had 3 to 4 full sets of puppy vaccines, including for rabies. On average, this will be completed between 12 and 16 weeks of age. 