Protists were traditionally subdivided into several groups based on similarities to the higher kingdoms: the unicellular animal-like protozoa, the plant-like protophyta (mostly unicellular algae), and the fungus-like slime molds and water molds. Many protists are flagellate, for example, and filter feeding can take place where the flagella find prey. Other protists can engulf bacteria and other food particles, by extending their cell membrane around them to form a food vacuole and digest them internally, in a process termed phagocytosis.
A plant like protist is a Eukaryotic organism that lives in a wet or moist environment. It has a cell wall and contains a green pigment, chlorophyll. Chloropyll helps the plan … t like protist produce its own food through photosynthesis. Most plant like protists are autotrophs, but some are partly heterotrophs. They are known as algae. Examples of plant like protists are dinoflagellates, euglenoids, diatoms, red algae, brown algae, and green algae. 25 people found this useful.
Plant-like protists are also called ' protophyta ,' which means 'first plants.'. The third group, the fungus-like protists, are also heterotrophs and get their nutrients by absorbing food. Now, this may seem a bit unusual, but this is how fungi get their nutrients and energy. These are plant-like protists and can be used in nanotechnology-which is basically manipulating items at the molecular level-because of the complex structure of their cell walls and because of their incredibly small size.
The plant-like protists are commonly referred to as algae and can be either single-or multi-celled. Algae contain chlorophyll and carry out the process of photosynthesis. Diatoms are single-celled algae that excrete a cell wall made of silica. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony. They are categorized into three main categories based on how they obtain nutrients.
Plant-like protists are autotrophs and get their nutrients by performing photosynthesis, which is a process that uses sunlight to make sugars and oxygen and is also performed by plants to make nutrients and energy. These are plant-like protists and can be used in nanotechnology-which is basically manipulating items at the molecular level-because of the complex structure of their cell walls and because of their incredibly small size.
Characteristics of Protists. Protists are eukaryotic organisms that cannot be classified as a plant, animal, or fungus. They are mostly unicellular, but some, like algae, are multicellular. Kelp, or 'seaweed,' is a large multicellular protist that provides food, shelter, and oxygen for numerous underwater ecosystems. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony. They are categorized into three main categories based on how they obtain nutrients.
Protists are organisms that are part of the biological kingdom called the protista. These organisms are not plants, animals, bacteria, or fungi. Protists are a very diverse group of organisms. They are basically all the organisms that don't fit into the other groups. One major type of protist is algae. Algae are protists that perform photosynthesis. Algae are very similar to plants. They have chlorophyll and produce food using oxygen and the energy from the Sun. However, they are not considered plants because they do have specialized organs or tissues.
They may occur as unicellular, multicellular, coenocytic, or colonial organisms. Protists include: (1) protozoa, the animal-like protists, (2) algae, the plant-like protists, and (3) slime moulds and water moulds, the fungus-like protists. Word origin: Greek protiston-a meaning the (most) first of all ones. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Protists is a catch-all term used to describe all eukaryotic organisms — meaning those that have cells with nuclei — besides animals, plants, and fungi. Examples include the unicellular animal-like protozoa, the fungus-like slime molds, and the plant-like protophyta. Green algae resemble members of the plant kingdom in that they use the same forms of chlorophyll. They are, in fact, thought to be the ancestors of green plants. They vary from single celled to multicellular types, and can be found in a variety of aquatic or moist environments.
Seaweed, a eukaryotic organism, is a protist. Paramecia are one type of protist. Algae, a type of protist, as seen through a microscope. Plant-like forms of protists include algae. Green algae resemble members of the plant kingdom in that they use the same forms of chlorophyll. They are, in fact, thought to be the ancestors of green plants. They vary from single celled to multicellular types, and can be found in a variety of aquatic or moist environments.