And they have to go to Washington DC to serve their state.     In addition, each state has a … number of Representatives who serve in the House of Representatives. The number of each state is determine by their population.    However, each state has its State government and these senators go to the capitol of their State to decide laws for the State.
Washington is a U.S. state with two senators in the United States Senate and 10 representatives in the United States House of Representatives. Scroll down for a map of the districts. The United States is divided into 435 congressional districts — 10 in Washington — each with a population of about 710,000 individuals. Each district elects a representative to the House for a two-year term. Representatives are also called congressmen/congresswomen. 1 st District.
There are 100 United States Senators in Washington, D.C.; 2 from each of the 50 states. Washington, D.C., itself, has no senators. Despite the fact that nearly 600,000 p … eople live in the capital, the Constitution prohibits residents from having voting representation in Congress.nd they have to go to Washington DC to serve their state.     In addition, each state has a … number of Representatives who serve in the House of Representatives. The number of each state is determine by their population.
North Carolina sends two senators to Washington, D.C., just as  every state does. The number of Representatives each state sends to  the House of Representatives is based on … the state's population, so  the number varies. 3 people found this useful. 
There are 100 members in the Senate. Each state elects two senators no matter the size or population of the state. In the House of Representatives there are 435 members. States are divided into districts based on their population. For every 693,000 people, a state will have one district. Tennessee has nine districts, and therefore nine members of the House of Representatives.A senator serves a six year term and they represent everyone in his or her state.apitol Hill is where the United States Capitol Building is located in Washington, D.C. The United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives have met in the Capitol Building since 1800.
The Washington State Senate is the upper house of the Washington State Legislature. The body consists of 49 members, each representing a district with a population of nearly 140,000. The State Senate meets at the Legislative Building in Olympia. As with the lower House of Representatives, state senators serve without term limits, though senators serve four-year terms. Senators are elected from the same legislative districts as House members, with each district electing two representatives but only one senator.
Representatives. The United States is divided into 435 congressional districts — 10 in Washington — each with a population of about 710,000 individuals. Each district elects a representative to the House for a two-year term. Representatives are also called congressmen/congresswomen. 1 st District.
Statistical Information. The Senators page on Statistics & Lists is a great resource for information about current and former Senators. Statistics are available on a variety of topics, including biographical characteristics and Senate service records.
Illinois is a U.S. state with two senators in the United States Senate and 18 representatives in the United States House of Representatives. Scroll down for a map of the districts. Representatives. The United States is divided into 435 congressional districts — 18 in Illinois — each with a population of about 710,000 individuals. Each district elects a representative to the House for a two-year term. Representatives are also called congressmen/congresswomen.