Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375째F. 2  Pour 1 Tbsp of olive oil evenly in the bottom of a 9x9-inch glass baking dish. 3  Place the fillets in the bottom of the baking dish. 4  Pour the remaining olive oil over the fillets. 5  Sprinkle half of the garlic over the fillets. 6  Sprinkle the bread crumbs over the fillets. 1 Preheat oven to 375째F. 2  Pour 1 Tbsp of olive oil evenly in the bottom of a 9x9-inch glass baking dish. 3  Place the fillets in the bottom of the baking dish. 4  Pour the remaining olive oil over the fillets. 5  Sprinkle half of the garlic
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
Preparation. 1  Preheat oven to 275째F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 5  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 1 Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 2  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 3  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 4  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 5  Season with salt and pepper. 6  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld.
Directions. Preheat oven to 475 degrees. Place butter on a rimmed baking sheet and season with salt and pepper. Place sheet in oven until butter melts, about 1 minute. Carefully remove sheet from oven and place salmon on top of butter, skin side down; season with salt and pepper. 
1 Preheat oven to 275째F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 1 Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 2  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 3  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 4  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 5  Season with salt and pepper. 6  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. 
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Sprinkle salmon with 2 teaspoons olive oil, salt, and pepper. Stir the tomatoes, shallots, 2 tablespoons of oil, lemon juice, oregano, thyme, salt and pepper in a medium bowl to blend. Place a salmon fillet, oiled side down, atop a sheet of foil. Wrap the ends of the foil to form a spiral shape
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum ba