Your new driver license or ID card will be mailed to you in two to three weeks. If you renewed or changed the address for a driver license, you need to print your temporary driver license (valid for 45 days) from the receipt page. 
1 The earlier you surrender the policy, the higher will be the surrender charge that you'll have to pay. 2  Cash value gets reduced if you'd taken out a loan-The cash value will be less if you had taken out a loan against the policy, since the loan amount and the accrued interest will be deducted accordingly. 1 Surrendering the policy as a whole gets rid of any coverage that you had with it. 2  With a partial surrender, a portion of the life insurance policy is retained. 3  However, the death benefits and cash value gets reduced.
B. If the person is director from both the DIN, then how can he make application for Surrender in RD-1. Then the person has to mention in DIR-5 about use of both the DIN and details of DIN which person want to surrender. The Regional Director will migrate the Companies of other DIN on the DIN which the person wants to retain with him. If Both the DIN is not in use:· Person has to prepare DIR-5 and other relevant documents and fill the form RD-1 in physical and submit RD-1 along with all relevant attachments with Regional Director of that region in physical form.
We came to know that Regional Director (Noida) has issued “Show Cause Notice U/s 266G of the Companies Act, 1956” to more than 2 Lac Persons. If any person not received “Show Cause Notice” and having two DIN, we will advise that person to surrender One DIN and file petition with CLB for Compounding of Offence. If Both the DIN is not in use:· Person has to prepare DIR-5 and other relevant documents and fill the form RD-1 in physical and submit RD-1 along with all relevant attachments with Regional Director of that region in physical form.
Surrendering to God helps us to let go of whatever has been holding us back from God's best for our lives. By surrendering to God, we let go of whatever has kept us from wanting God's ways first. Surrender to God-A Choice for Adam & Eve. In the beginning, God placed Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden and gave them everything they needed. All that was good to eat was available and attainable for them. Had they chosen to surrender the longings of their hearts to God, it's possible that we may all be living eternally on a perfect earth, right here and now. Tragically, Adam and Eve did not choose that path.
Our Lord replies to this statement of Peter by saying that this surrender is “for My sake and the gospel’s” (10:29). It was not for the purpose of what the disciples themselves would get out of it. Beware of surrender that is motivated by personal benefits that may result. 
Voluntary surrender or deceased driver. To voluntarily surrender your driver license to the New York State DMV, get two copies of form MV-326 from a DMV office or Call Center. Complete the two forms and surrender your document with the forms to a DMV office. We will cancel your license and give you one copy of form MV-326 as a receipt. If the driver is deceased, send the photo document (if available) and a copy of the death certificate to: License Production Bureau.
Withdraw the consent of a parent. A driver under the age of 18 must have the consent of a parent or a legal guardian to apply for a learner permit and a driver license. The parent who gave the consent can withdraw their consent if the driver is under the age of 18. Complete the two forms and surrender your document with the forms to a DMV office. We will cancel your license and give you one copy of form MV-326 as a receipt. If the driver is deceased, send the photo document (if available) and a copy of the death certificate to: License Production Bureau.
the din which u take earliar and approved by mcs will be the din of the director. use that din insted of taken later. First of all Sir, it cant be possible that a director has 2 dins. and if he has it is the voilation of the law. but as regard your problem, u just file the din 3 again with the original din which the director have which he took first. Regards,