Even a small amount of alcohol has an affect on your body. When you drink, alcohol is absorbed into your bloodstream and distributed throughout your body. A tiny amount of alcohol exits your body in your urine and your breath. You absorb alcohol more slowly if you eat, especially if the food is high in fat.
Staying hydrated will obviously have opposing effects: smoothing out wrinkles, leaving your skin looking bright, young and fresh. Drinking water is the only way to combat the drying effects of alcohol, hydrating from within.
The only problem is – alcohol and skin isn’t a good mix and as we grow older – the health effects of alcohol on the body become more obvious. So, for those of us who are serious about looking younger and aging well – it’s important to understand just how alcohol accelerates the aging process.
Along with increasing the risk of liver, pancreatic and breast cancer, alcohol increases the risk of skin cancer including squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, and melanoma. Alcohol is also associated with an increased risk of oral cancer. The reasons why excessive alcohol consumption may cause cancer include: 1  Alcohol suppresses the immune system and impairs adequate nutrition, reducing the body's natural defense against skin cancer.
Cutaneous adverse effects of alcohol. Excessive alcohol (ethanol) intake or alcohol abuse can result in many health problems and is implicated as a cause or aggravating factor for several skin conditions.
Whether it's a night on the town with friends or a glass of wine with dinner, alcohol plays a role in the lives of many people. Studies in recent years have suggested that moderate consumption of certain types of alcohol is beneficial for heart health and cancer prevention [ Mayo Clinic ].
Alcohol has a directly aging effect on the condition of the skin. Alcohol causes the small blood vessels to widen, producing flushed, coarse skin and broken veins. Not only is alcohol aging in itself but if you smoke as well as drink then you get something of a double whammy as far as your skin is concerned.
Alcohol's effect on your skin is similar to its effect on the rest of your body: it steals the good (hydration) and leaves the bad (dryness, bloating, redness). When you drink alcohol, it hinders the production of vasopressin -- an anti-diuretic hormone.