azeotropic distillation. (chemical engineering). A process by which a liquid mixture is separated into pure components with the help of an additional substance or solvent. Any of several processes by which liquid mixtures containing azeotropes may be separated into their pure components with the aid of an additional substance (called the entrainer, the solvent, or the mass separating agent) to facilitate the
The topic of this chapter is azeotropic distillation. By azeotropic distillation, even complex mixtures with ternary azeotropes and with demixing behavior into a heteroazeotrope can be handled. The added compound (entrainer) produces a more suitable (at least ternary) azeotrope. In this last section, practical aspects of the separation of ethanol and water by azeotropic distillation with toluene as the entrainer are discussed. Figure 7.7 shows the effect of the addition of toluene as an entrainer to an ethanol–water system, which exhibits a minimum
Definition of AZEOTROPIC DISTILLATION. : distillation involving the presence of a compound that forms an azeotrope with at least one of the components of a liquid mixture which can thereby be more readily separated because of the resulting increase in the difference between the volatilities of the components of the mixture. ADVERTISEMENT.
Before explaining what an azeotrope is, it would be useful to define the process of distillation. The process of distillation relies on the fact that the different components of a mixture will boil and therefore vaporize at different temperatures. This is possible because the various ingredients of the mixture have different boiling points.
Azeotrope. An azeotrope is a mixture of two or more pure compounds (chemicals) in such a ratio that its composition cannot be changed by simple distillation. This is because when an azeotrope is boiled, the resulting vapor has the same ratio of constituents as the original mixture of liquids. When an entrainer is added to a binary azeotrope to form a ternary azeotrope, and the resulting mixture distilled, the method is called azeotropic distillation. The best known example is adding benzene or cyclohexane to the water/ethanol azeotrope.
Extractive distillation. Extractive distillation is similar to azeotropic distillation, except in this case the entrainer is less volatile than any of the azeotrope's constituents. For example, the azeotrope of 20% acetone with 80% chloroform can be broken by adding water and distilling the result. When an entrainer is added to a binary azeotrope to form a ternary azeotrope, and the resulting mixture distilled, the method is called azeotropic distillation. The best known example is adding benzene or cyclohexane to the water/ethanol azeotrope.
Abstract. In an azeotropic distillation process, a third component, the entrainer, is added to a binary mixture to influence the azeotropic system in such a way that collection of pure products is possible. For better understanding, first the concept of residual curves and distillation lines is introduced. In this last section, practical aspects of the separation of ethanol and water by azeotropic distillation with toluene as the entrainer are discussed. Figure 7.7 shows the effect of the addition of toluene as an entrainer to an ethanol–water system, which exhibits a minimum azeotrope.
Phase diagram (left) and process flow diagram (right) of an apparatus for the azeotropic distillation with material separation agent. For the distillation of ethanol for gasoline addition, the most common means of breaking the azeotrope is the use of molecular sieves. Ethanol is distilled to 96%, then run over a molecular sieve which adsorbs water from the mixture.
An azeotrope or a constant boiling mixture is a mixture of two or more liquids whose proportions cannot be altered by simple distillation. This happens because, when an azeotrope is boiled, the vapour has the same proportions of constituents as the unboiled mixture. Because distillation cannot separate the constituents of an azeotrope, the separation of azeotropic mixtures (also called azeotrope breaking) is a topic of considerable interest. Indeed, this difficulty led some early investigators to believe that azeotropes were actually compounds of their constituents.
Azeotropic distillation. Any of several processes by which liquid mixtures containing azeotropes may be separated into their pure components with the aid of an additional substance (called the entrainer, the solvent, or the mass separating agent) to facilitate the distillation.