In our daily life, there are many examples of shapes resembling a triangular prism. First of all, a camping tent is a very good example of a triangular prism. The prism, we use in the laboratory for dispersion of light, is another good example of this solid shape. Basics About A Triangular Prism: Faces: There are five faces of this solid. Two faces are triangular planar and rest of the three faces are rectangles. There is deep explanation of each face at a time down below on this page.
Note: Finding the volume of a triangular prism isn't so bad, especially if you already know the length and height of the base and the height of the prism. In this tutorial, you'll see how to use that information and the formula for the volume of a triangular prism to get the answer. Take a look! If you want to find the volume of a triangular pyramid, you'll need to know the length and height of the base and the height of the pyramid. Once you have those values, you can plug them into the formula for the volume of a t.
A triangular prism is a prism composed of two triangular bases and three rectangular sides. A solid object that has two identical ends and all flat sides. The shape of the base give the prism a name, a prism with triangular bases is called as triangular prism. A right triangular prism is a prism whose bases are triangles. A right triangular prism, the word right describes the prism, whereas the word triangle refers to the triangular base. Triangular Prism. In geometry, a right triangular prism is a three-sided prism. A polyhedron with two congruent and parallel faces and whose lateral faces are parallelograms. The shape of the base gives the prism its name. That is, a prism with triangular bases is a triangular prism
A triangular prism whose length is l units, and whose triangular cross-section has base b units and height h units, has a volume of V cubic units given by. 
Triangular Prism Volume Formula. The volume of a triangular prism can be found by multiplying the base times the height. Both of the pictures of the Triangular prisms below illustrate the same formula. The formula, in general, is the area of the base (the red triangle in the picture on the left) times the height,h. The right hand picture illustrates the same f