The Capricorn Goat / Sea Goat. The sea goat is often referred to as the 'Capricorn goat' because of its association with the Capricorn zodiac sign. What you choose to call it is up to you. The creature remains the same. The sea goat has the body of a goat from the waist up and the tail of fish. It's a very unusual creature, even for mythical standards, because the two halves don't seem to make a whole lot of sense together. Goats are designed to climb steep and rocky cliffs while fish are designed to move smoothly through water.
Capricorn is often depicted as the 'sea goat' from the myth of Pan, the horned woodland god of goats and shepherds. The bearded and 'horny' Pan was one of the satyrs, half-human and half-beast, known for their voracious sexual appetites (origin of the word 'satyriasis'). 
The sea goat, not the billy goat, is the true symbol of Capricorn, which rules the tenth house of astrology. This house is defined by the Midheaven, the highest point of the horoscope, representing the highest aspirations and therefore your vocation. The sea goat symbol goes back over 4000 years, when it represented the Sumerian primordial god of waters, Enki. According to legend (similar to the Garden of Eden story of the Bible) at one time “there was not fear, no terror”, and men lived in harmony.
The sea goat is often referred to as the 'Capricorn goat' because of its association with the Capricorn zodiac sign. What you choose to call it is up to you. The creature remains the same. The sea goat has the body of a goat from the waist up and the tail of fish. It's a very unusual creature, even for mythical standards, because the two halves don't seem to make a whole lot of sense together. Goats are designed to climb steep and rocky cliffs while fish are designed to move smoothly through water.
Its Origin and Meaning in Astrology. The above image is the established symbol (also called glyph) for the Zodiac sign Capricorn, the Goat. It's a simplified drawing of a sea-goat, the mythological animal-half goat, half fish-originally associated with the sign. The horned head is implied to the left, and the curved fish tail to the right. Both the Zodiac sign and its symbol have been along for ages. A Goat-Fish. The constellation is usually called Capricornus, in proper Latin. It means goat horn or horned goat, not necessarily a sea-goat. No matter how the stars in the constellation are connected with lines, it's hard to see the goat.
This finally explains one of mythology's most mysterious constellation myths. The Capricorn zodiac sign is often interpreted as being either a goat or a sea-goat, which is basically a creature with the front half of a goat and the tail of a fish. The story behind the Capricorn zodiac sign begins with the sea-goat Pricus. Pricus is the father of the race of sea-goats, who are known to be intelligent and honorable creatures who live in the sea near the shore. They can speak and think and are favored by the gods.
Capricornus is one of the constellations of the zodiac. It is often called Capricorn, especially when referring to the corresponding astrological sign. Its name is Latin for horned male goat  or goat horn , and it is commonly represented in the form of a sea-goat: a mythical creature that is half goat, half fish. Capricorn the sea goat was a goat that decided to take over the world. The gods of Greece looked down upon that and sent there wrath and killed him with one of Zeus thunderbolts. Then they hung him in the sky to humiliate him.
Capricornus, a name meaning Horned Goat in Latin, is one of the constellations of the zodiac. It is commonly called Capricorn, especially in astrology. It is commonly called the sea-goat, as it is in an area of the sky known as the Sea. Capricornus is one of the 88 modern constellations, and was also one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy. 
For the astrological sign, see Capricorn (astrology) . Capricornus /ˌkaeprɨˈkɔrnəs/ ˌkæprɨˈkɔrnəs is one of the constellations of the. Zodiac its name Is latin for horned  goat or goat , horn and it is commonly represented in the form of a-sea: goat a mythical creature that is half, goat half. fish Capricornus as a sea-goat from Urania's Mirror (1825). Capricornus's brighter stars are found on a triangle whose vertices are α2 Capricorni (Giedi), δ Capricorni (Deneb Algiedi), and ω Capricorni. Ptolemy's method of connecting the stars of Capricornus has been influential.