FDA's responsibilities extend to the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and other U.S. territories and possessions. 
Food and Drug Administration: An agency within the US Public Health Service that provides a number of health-related services. Abbreviated FDA. 
(FDA). an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services whose principal purpose is to enforce the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA is also responsible for enforcing the federal act that requires informative labels on any household product that is toxic, corrosive, irritant, or inflammable or generates pressure through decomposition or heat.
Holonyms (FDA is a part of...): Department of Health and Human Services; Health and Human Services; HHS (the United States federal department that administers all federal programs dealing with health and welfare; created in 1979). 1. a federal agency in the Department of Health and Human Services established to regulate the release of new foods and health-related products. Familiarity information: FDA used as a noun is very rare.
• FDA (noun). The noun FDA has 1 sense: 1. a federal agency in the Department of Health and Human Services established to regulate the release of new foods and health-related products. Familiarity information: FDA used as a noun is very rare.
FDA-a federal agency in the Department of Health and Human Services established to regulate the release of new foods and health-related products. Food and Drug Administration. 
FDA is responsible for protecting the public health by assuring the safety, efficacy and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, medical devices, our nation’s food supply, cosmetics, and products that emit radiation. Finally, FDA plays a significant role in the Nation’s counterterrorism capability. FDA fulfills this responsibility by ensuring the security of the food supply and by fostering development of medical products to respond to deliberate and naturally emerging public health threats.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA or USFDA) is a federal agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, one of the United States federal executive departments. In February 2008, the FDA announced that the Bush Administration's FY 2009 budget request for the agency was just under $2.4 billion: $1.77 billion in budget authority (federal funding) and $628 million in user fees.