At the center of these complex behaviors are two powerful neurotransmitters, dopamine and serotonin. These naturally occurring chemicals in your brain help your body move fluidly, your mind stay calm and focused on a task, and help you to resist depression and other mood disorders. Levodopa is a medication used to increase dopamine levels and restore normal movement in people with Parkinson disease. The dose is difficult to adjust, and too much dopamine can cause uncontrolled movements such as tremors and jerking. Unlike dopamine, the role of serotonin in movement is not as clear.
Norepenephrine:increase adrenergic neurotransmission.(exerts the same effect as adrenaline) Serotonin:affect mood and behavior Dopamine:allow us to feel pleasure Serotonin is a chemical compound inside the body, which is used to relay electrical signals from the central nervous system to other cells. 
by admin. Dopamine vs Serotonin. Dopamine and serotonin are the biogenic amines, and both are known as neurotransmitters secreted by nerve cells that influence the activity of other nerve cells. These amines are very important substances as they influence mental, emotional, and physical health of humans. Dopamine vs Serotonin. • Dopamine is derived from tyrosine amino acid, while serotonin is derived from the amino acid called tryptophan. • Dopamine production is localized in the basal ganglia, whereas serotonin production is localized in the raphe nucleus of the reticular formation. • Dopamine is used to control body movements, motivational and pleasure seeking behaviors, attention, learning and mood
Differences Between Serotonin vs dopamine. Although serotonin and dopamine both work in the brain, they act in different parts of the brain. Serotonin fires out nerve signals in the “raphe nucleus” section of the brain, plus the central section of the brain stem. Scientists have been able to identify a large number of neurotransmitters in the brain, but dopamine and serotonin are the two of the sixteen most important ones. As already stated, although serotonin and dopamine are both neurotransmitters, they each play a different role in the brain. Serotonin is synthesized from tryptophan, an amino acid found in various foods, from dairy produce such as milk and cheese, to meat and whole grains. The chemical name for serotonin is 5-hydroxytryptamine, usually shortened to 5-HT
Location. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that is primarily found in the brain. Serotonin is also a neurotransmitter, but 80 to 90 percent of serotonin is found in the gastrointestinal tract. Dopamine and serotonin are two neurotransmitters that are necessary for many aspects of human behavior. Inadequate production and regulation of either neurotransmitter is a cause of many medical conditions.
Serotonin and dopamine are two chemical compounds that are essential to proper brain functioning. They belong to the category of biogenic amines, a group that also includes noradrenaline, acetylcholine, and histamine. Where They Are Found. Serotonin is a neurotransmitter hormone that is occurs naturally in the brain of humans, and it has also been identified in certain animals' digestive tracts. The compound is also found in several different varieties of vegetables and fruits.
Best Answer: Seratonin and dopamine are both endorphins. Endorphins are psychoactive chemicals released by the brain in response to certain stimuli. All drugs considered to be psychoactive drugs; illegal as well as prescribed cause the release of endorphins that effect brain chemistry. Report Abuse. Serotonin is the good mood hormone. Dopamine is the hormone that allows a user to have a very excited/sensitive state. Endorphin is the natural pain reliever. Serotonin is activated when the person is in an elevated mood. It's the cause of this mood.
Dopamine is closely linked to mood and is part of our pleasure response, which is why good sex causes the brain to be flooded with dopamine. It is also linked to motivation and movement, and a lack of dopamine plays a part in several mental health disorders, including depression. 