Carbon has a charge of +4, meaning it can share a total of 4 electrons before it is satisfied. This fact means that it can readily form bonds with a multitude of other eleme … nts, especially other Carbon atoms.   This produces Carbon chains which are very stable, and it makes the number of compounds it can form, almost infinite. 3 people found this useful. Because since carbon is a group 4 element it has four bonds and can form an extremely wide range of compounds and molecular structures. Also, being in the middle of the period … ic table it can bond with both metals and non metals. It is the main component of almost all long chain molecules.
Carbon is the main constituent of all living cells. It has chemical properties that make it the most important biological element. For instance, it forms strong chemical bonds and can form single bonds with up to four other atoms. It can bond to itself. It can also form double and triple bonds. Carbon is one of the only elements, because of its bonding properties, that can create long chain-shaped molecules or ring shaped molecules.
The study of carbon molecules is called organic chemistry, and there is a subset, biochemistry, that deals with the carbon molecules in living organisms. Even outside of the realm of biological life, carbon is important, especially to industry. Carbon is a critical component of fuel, such as gasoline or coal. It can bond to itself. It can also form double and triple bonds. Carbon is one of the only elements, because of its bonding properties, that can create long chain-shaped molecules or ring shaped molecules.
Carbon is the backbone for all organic molecules, like carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids, and fats. Cells must have these compounds in order to survive and many cellular … structures are composed of organic, carbon containing molecules. Because since carbon is a group 4 element it has four bonds and can form an extremely wide range of compounds and molecular structures. Also, being in the middle of the period … ic table it can bond with both metals and non metals. It is the main component of almost all long chain molecules.
SIMPLE MOLECULE. Water molecules (H 2 0) are very simple. They are made of two hydrogen (H) atoms bonded to one oxygen (O) atom. All water molecules are the same, but they are different from the molecules of any other substance. A water molecule is the smallest possible piece of water. You can break it up into smaller pieces, but they wouldn’t be water anymore. The symbols that scientists use to represent molecules are called chemical formulae. Other molecules can consist of two atoms of the same element. The oxygen molecule is made up of two oxygen atoms bonded together. However, in certain circumstances, three oxygen atoms bond together, forming a molecule called ozone.
Living things need carbon in order to live, grow, and reproduce. Carbon is a finite resource that cycles through the Earth in many forms. This makes carbon available to living organisms and remains in balance with other chemical reactions in the atmosphere and in bodies of water like ponds and oceans. 
Carbon forms the key component for all known life on Earth. Complex molecules are made up of carbon bonded with other elements, especially oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen, and carbon is able to bond with all of these because of its four valence electrons. The most important characteristics of carbon as a basis for the chemistry of life are, that it has four valence bonds, that the energy required to make or break a bond is at an appropriate level for building molecules, which are stable and reactive.