Clinical Features and Imaging. Hematuria is the most common presenting symptom. Most papillomas are single and occur in younger patients (mean age, 46 years; range, 22-89 years). Urothelial papilloma may recur; however, it does not progress. Aggressive behavior has been reported in a patient with urothelial papilloma who was receiving immunosuppressive therapy secondary to renal transplantation. Urothelial papilloma is a benign exophytic neoplasm composed of a delicate fibrovascular core covered by normal-appearing urothelium. Next.
Intraductal (breast) papillomas are not at all related to HPV, not related to ‘warts’, which occur and skin surfaces and are caused by exposure to the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). They simply share the name because they have similar features. Good to know, it’s not a wart. Or a butterfly. 
The cortical cyst refers to a very common type of kidney cyst. Because it is located at the renal cortex, it is called the cortical cyst.“Exophytic” means that the cyst grows out of' and can be seen as a feature of certain renal tumors. Home FAQs. Answer: Thank you for your consultation. Firstly, I want to give you an introduction of exophytic cortical cyst. The cortical cyst refers to a very common type of kidney cyst. Because it is located at the renal cortex, it is called the cortical cyst. It is a fluid-filled sac growing in the outer area of the kidneys. You might have one, or you might have several, and they can affect just one or both kidney
A papilloma (plural papillomas or papillomata) (papillo- + -oma) is a benign epithelial tumor growing exophytically (outwardly projecting) in nipple-like and often finger-like fronds. In this context papilla refers to the projection created by the tumor, not a tumor on an already existing papilla (such as the nipple). When used without context, it frequently refers to infections (squamous cell papilloma) caused by human papillomavirus (HPV), such as warts. Human papillomavirus infection is a major cause of cervical cancer, although most HPV infections do not cause cancer. There are, however, a number of other conditions that cause papilloma, as well as many cases in which there is no known cause
1. Pertaining to an exophyte. 2. Denoting a neoplasm or lesion that grows outward from an epithelial surface. /exo·phyt·ic/ (ek″so-fit´ik) growing outward; in oncology, proliferating on the exterior or surface epithelium of an organ or other structure in which the growth originated. 
Inverted papillomas exhibit exophytic and endophytic growth patterns. Invagination into the underlying stroma instead of the exophytic growth pattern is exhibited by squamous cell or limbal papillomas, whereas some lesions exhibit a mixture of exophytic and endophytic growth patterns. 
Complications associated with simple cysts arise due to rupture of the cyst and resultant hemorrhage. Exophytic means “to grow out of” and can be seen as a feature of certain renal tumors. This can present even in benign and noncancerous tumors. Cortical refers to the area that is known as the cortex of the kidney. Cysts usually arise from the cortex of the kidney. The title that you have put for this post is just a description of the cyst and not a definitive diagnosis of the cyst.
Medical Definition of EXOPHYTIC. : tending to grow outward beyond the surface epithelium from which it originates—used of tumors; compare endophytic. What made you want to look up exophytic? 