Foods generally contain a mixture of fats, but selecting foods that are rich in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (including omega-3 fatty acids) instead of trans and saturated fats helps lower your risk of many diseases. “Good” fats lower “bad” cholesterol in the blood, decreasing risk of heart attack. Nuts (including peanuts) and seeds are an excellent source of good fats. Hazelnuts, almonds, cashews and peanuts all derive more than half of their fat calories from monounsaturated fats. Walnuts and chia seeds (the same ones used to grow fuzzy terracotta pets) are extremely rich in omega-3 fats.
To increase your intake of unsaturated fats, try replacing other fatty foods with these 5 items: Olive oil is full of healthy unsaturated fats. 1 Tbsp. of oil has almost 12 grams of unsaturated fat and only 2 grams of the saturated stuff. In addition, olive oil provides a heart-friendly dose of both omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. Mix it with vinegar to create salad dressings and use it to cook meat or veggies. Avocados are full of unsaturated fats and low in saturated fat. Their smooth creamy texture makes them a great sandwich replacement for mayonnaise or cheese. For parties, mash avocados together with a small amount of onion, garlic, tomato, cilantro and lime juice to make a crowd-pleasing guacamole.
A diet high in saturated fat -- found in animal products and some vegetable oils -- can lead to heart problems, but eating the right amount of unsaturated fats can protect the heart. Unsaturated fats -- including monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats -- are considered good-for-you fats. Polyunsaturated fats include the famed omega 3 and omega 6 fats, both considered essential fatty acids, because our bodies can't make them on its own.
1 Avocados: Avocados contain monounsaturated fats (and antioxidants and beta-carotene too!), which is said to help enhance memory and prevent heart disease. 2  The recommended daily intake (RDI) of fat is 65 grams, and one cup of avocado contains almost one third of your fat intake for a day, about 23 grams. Here are the good fatty foods that deserve a place in your diet! 1 
Fatty Fish. The term “fatty fish” may sound unappealing, but actually, these are the healthiest and most delicious foods from the sea. Oily fish such as salmon, tuna, sardines, mackerel and trout are full of omega-3 fatty acids—good fats, unlike the bad saturated fat you find in most meats. One whole egg contains 5 grams of fat, but only 1.5 grams are saturated. Whole eggs are also a good source of choline (one egg yolk has about 300 micrograms of choline), an important B vitamin that helps regulate the brain, nervous system and cardiovascular system.
Healing Foods Pyramid™. Healthy Fats are included in the Healing Foods Pyramid™ as part of a balanced, whole foods, plant-based diet. This Food Pyramid emphasizes foods that nourish the body, sustain energy over time, contain healing qualities and essential nutrients, and support a sustainable environment. 
But monounsaturated fat and polyunsaturated fat are the good kinds of fat, which are found in plant-based foods and oils. These fats can help improve cholesterol levels and reduce the risk of heart disease. One type of fat, omega-3 fatty acids, are especially beneficial for heart health. Click here to see the 10 Foods with Healthy Fats (Slideshow). Foods contain several different kinds of fat — and some are better for you than others. Some fats even help promote good health. Harmful fats are saturated and trans fats, which are often found in butter and animal fat
Avocados and Nuts. Avocados are a fruit rich in monounsaturated fat, a good fat that helps protect against heart disease, according to Oprah.com. Monounsaturated fats are found mainly in plant foods such as oils, nuts and seeds. Avocados are also high in beta-sitosterol, which helps lower blood cholesterol levels. Fish that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids include salmon, mackerel, sardines and herring. Flaxseed, as well as some other seeds -- such as chia -- also contain omega-3 fatty acids. Vegetable oils are made up of healthy unsaturated fats. One especially healthful type is olive oil, an oil rich in monounsaturated fat.