Clostridium difficile. Clostridium difficile, also known as CDF/cdf, or C. diff, is a species of Gram-positive bacteria of the genus Clostridium that causes severe diarrhea and other intestinal disease when competing bacteria in the gut flora have been wiped out by antibiotics. Clostridia are anaerobic, spore-forming rods. C. difficile is the most serious cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea and can lead to pseudomembranous colitis, a severe inflammation of the colon, often resulting from eradication of the normal gut flora by antibiotics.
Definition of CLOSTRIDIUM. : any of a genus (Clostridium) of spore-forming mostly anaerobic soil or intestinal bacteria — compare botulism, tetanus. — clos·trid·i·al \-dē-əl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT
For the disease, see Clostridium difficile colitis. Clostridium difficile (etymology and pronunciation), also known as C. difficile, C. diff (/siː/ /dɪf/), or sometimes CDF/cdf, is a species of Gram-positive spore-forming bacteria. 
Clostridium difficile colitis or pseudomembranous colitis is colitis (inflammation of the large intestine) resulting from infection with Clostridium difficile, a spore-forming bacterium. It causes an infectious diarrhea called C. difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD). Latent symptoms of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) often mimic some flu-like symptoms and may mimic disease flare-ups in people with inflammatory bowel disease –associated colitis. C. difficile releases toxins that may cause bloating and diarrhea, with abdominal pain, which may become severe. Clostridium difficile is one such type of bacterium. In addition to proliferating in the bowel, C. difficile also produces toxins. Without either toxin A or toxin B, C. difficile may colonize the gut, but is unlikely to cause pseudomembranous colitis.
Clostridium: A group of anaerobic bacteria (bacteria that thrive in the absence of oxygen). There are 100+ species of Clostridium. They include, for examples, Clostridium difficile, Clostridium perfringens (also called Clostridium welchii), and Clostridium botulinum. Many persons infected with C.difficile have no symptoms. These people become carriers of the bacteria and can infect others. In other people, a toxin produced by C. difficile causes diarrhea, abdominal pain, severe inflammation of the colon (colitis), fever, an elevated white blood count, vomiting and dehydration.
Clostridium difficile, also known as C. difficile, or C. diff, is a bacterium which infects and can make humans ill, as well as other animals. Symptoms can range from diarrhea to serious and potentially fatal inflammation of the colon. Signs and symptoms in more severe cases may include: C. diff infection can be fatal; however, this is very rare. The risk of a life-threatening condition is higher among very elderly patients, as well as individuals with existing serious health conditions.
Clostridium difficile: A bacterium that is one of the most common causes of infection of the colon in the US. Patients taking antibiotics are at risk of becoming infected with C. difficile as antibiotics can disrupt the normal bacteria of the bowel, allowing C. difficile to become established in the colon. In some people, a toxin produced by C. difficile causes diarrhea, abdominal pain, severe inflammation of the colon (colitis), fever, an elevated white blood cell count, vomiting, and dehydration.
Clostridium difficile (also called C. difficile) are bacteria that can cause swelling and irritation of the large intestine, or colon. This inflammation, known as colitis, can cause diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps. You may get C. difficile colitisC. difficile if you take antibiotics. 