The majority of firmicutes have a gram positive cell wall structure and a cocci or rod shape. In a gram stain, the Streptococcus pyogenes will be a purple color, indicating that it is a gram positive bacteria. The class Bacilli is a classification of cocci or rod shaped bacteria, and that is what the Streptococcus pyogenes are. 
Staphylococcus bacteria. Coccus (plural cocci) is a term used to describe any bacterium that has a spherical, ovoid, or generally round shape. It is one of the three distinct bacterial shapes, the other two being bacillus (rod-shaped) and spiral-shaped cells. Coccus is an English loanword of a Neolatin noun, which in turn stems from the Greek masculine noun kokkos (κόκκος) meaning berry.
Coccus: A bacterial cell that has the shape of a sphere. Coccus is part of the name of a number of bacteria, such as enterococcus, meningococcus, pneumococcus, staphylococcus, and streptococcus.
Bacteria are named depending on their shape and arrangement. Coccus refers to bacteria that are spherical or slightly oval in shape. Coccus bacteria cause a number of common infections, including strep throat. Cocci are usually shaped like flat, elongated ovals. Many species of Neisseria are found in healthy human throats, but the bacteria that cause meningitis also belong to this genus. For instance, the coccus described in this article has a round flat shape giving it the most possible surface area. This is a biological advantage because it allows the bacteria to take up more nutrients.
There are three basic shapes of bacteria: coccus, bacillus, and spiral. 2. Based on planes of division, the coccus shape can appear in several distinct arrangements: diplococcus, streptococcus, tetrad, sarcina, and staphylococcus. Fundamental Statements for this Learning Object: 1. There are three basic shapes of bacteria: coccus, bacillus, and spiral. 2. Based on planes of division, the coccus shape can appear in several distinct arrangements: diplococcus, streptococcus, tetrad, sarcina, and staphylococcus. 3.
The word “coccus” has a couple of different meanings in biology, but it most commonly refers to a type of bacteria that is spherical or slightly oval in shape. In this application, the plural term used to describe entire bacterial chains or infections is cocci, whereas a single coccus bacterium is called a monococcus. For instance, the coccus described in this article has a round flat shape giving it the most possible surface area. This is a biological advantage because it allows the bacteria to take up more nutrients.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of coccus): staph; staphylococci; staphylococcus (spherical Gram-positive parasitic bacteria that tend to form irregular colonies; some cause boils or septicemia or infections). 
Bacteria comes in three general shapes: spherical, rod-shaped and spiral. This article will focus on the spherical (sometimes oval) shaped bacteria. If you are talking about a single bacterium, the term is coccus, and the plural form is cocci. A coccus organism is capable of living on its own, but it may also live in a formation along with other cocci bacteria. Two joined cocci are known a diplococci, while four arranged in a square shape are called a tetrad. The Sarcina genus arrange themselves in groups of eight, in a cube shape. Some notable cocci bacteria include: Staphylococcus aureus: These bacteria are often found in the nose and on the skin, and about 20% of humans are carriers. It is capable of causing various minor skin conditions, and it can cause more serious infections, like pneumonia, meningitis, and toxic shock syndrome (TSS).
1. Coccus (def) The cocci are spherical or oval bacteria having one of several distinct arrangements (see Fig. 1) based on their planes of division. a. Division in one plane produces either a diplococcus or streptococcus arrangement. diplococcus: cocci arranged in pairs (see Fig. Fundamental Statements for this Learning Object: 1. There are three basic shapes of bacteria: coccus, bacillus, and spiral. 2. Based on planes of division, the coccus shape can appear in several distinct arrangements: diplococcus, streptococcus, tetrad, sarcina, and staphylococcus. 3.