Color Green. Green is the color of nature, fertility, life. Grass green is the most restful color. Green symbolizes self-respect and well being. Green is the color of balance. It also means learning, growth and harmony. Green is a safe color, if you don't know what color to use anywhere use green. Green is favored by well balanced people. Green symbolizes the master healer and the life force. It often symbolizes money. It was believed green was healing for the eyes. Egyptians wore green eyeliner. Green eyeshades are still used. 
The Meaning of Pink: Pink is a Feminine/Masculine Color and is one of the Spiritual Colors of office. It is composed of Red and White and sometimes Blue or Violet. Pink is your individual Spirit-sovereignty, dignity and self-reliance-with Central-West as it's direction. The Meaning of Green: Green is a Feminine Color and is composed of Blue and Yellow. Green is an Earth color-abundance, growth and life-with North-East as it's direction. Green moves in the Soul, with powers of decision making, structuring and spanning the bridge of the Physical Body with the Spiritual Body.
Green symbolizes money, luck, prosperity, vitality and fertility. It is also associated with envy. Green is the color of healing; it is beneficial in all healing situations. In the aura green signifies balance, peace and often indicates ability as a healer. White. White is associated with truth, purity, cleansing, healing and protection. It is a good general healing color for the removal of pain and suffering. In the aura it signifies a high level of attainment, a higher level soul incarnate to help others.
Red. Red is the color of fire and blood, so it is associated with energy, war, danger, strength, power, determination as well as passion, desire, and love. Red is a very emotionally intense color. It enhances human metabolism, increases respiration rate, and raises blood pressure. 
Color symbolism and color therapy has had a long history in many societies and is closely intertwined with cultural associations with various colors. Choosing Healing Colors: Neutral Colors. For healing purposes, white is stimulating and cleansing for the entire body. Black is a protective color that can be used to calm someone who is agitated. However, too much black can cause depression. Silver activates intuition and imagination.
Color meaning is used for healing, magic, divination, and of course we choose the colors that reflect our moods and desires for our clothing, for interior design, and for our cars... it all reflects how we feel about ourselves. Spiritual Meaning of the Color Orange ... Orange represents abundance and is a warm and energetic color. Orange has many meanings including affection, warmth and sensuality. Orange is the color of the second or sacral chakra.
Click on any color on the color wheel above for more information Click the CENTER for CLEAR or WHITE Click here for PINK UPDATED 08-03-14 Color Therapy or Color Healing is the use of color in various forms for the purpose of creating balance and health in the human system. 
White is a Masculine Color and is the reflection of all other Colors. White is Divine Spirit-your destiny and the divine connection-with true Center as it's direction. White moves in the Ethereal body, the human spirit connected to the Divine spirit and the Individual spirit. The Meaning of Green: Green is a Feminine Color and is composed of Blue and Yellow. Green is an Earth color-abundance, growth and life-with North-East as it's direction. Green moves in the Soul, with powers of decision making, structuring and spanning the bridge of the Physical Body with the Spiritual Body.
The Meaning of Black: Black is a Feminine Color and is an absorption of all other colors. It is an Earth-Spirit Color-Human Spirit, with the North-East-structure and thinking-as it's direction. Black moves in the physical body and is often deep, quiet, collected and silent. The Meaning of Green: Green is a Feminine Color and is composed of Blue and Yellow. Green is an Earth color-abundance, growth and life-with North-East as it's direction. Green moves in the Soul, with powers of decision making, structuring and spanning the bridge of the Physical Body with the Spiritual Body.