The original “Thirst Quencher” Gatorade and the traditional Powerade brands each contain 21 grams of sugar per 12-fluid-ounce serving, making them equal providers of the easily digestible nutrients. The type of sugar in each drink differs, however.
Photo Credit 4774344sean/iStock/Getty Images. Powerade and Gatorade are brands of sports energy drinks, but although they share many similarities, such as the inclusion of electrolytes, nutritional differences set the two brands apart from each other.
The sodium content of Gatorade is about 450 milligrams per liter; for Powerade, it is 225 mg/L. Thus Gatorade does a somewhat better job of replacing the sodium lost in sweat. The sodium content of Powerade Ion4 Advanced Electrolyte System, however, is just under 425 mg/L. Viewed scientifically, the differences between Gatorade and Powerade are small, with neither beverage appearing clearly superior to the other.
Gatorade and Powerade differ in one very important area, the amount of electrolytes that it will replace in your body. Gatorade offers 160 milligrams of sodium while Powerade only boasts 140 milligrams. Sodium is the key component in electrolyte replacement.
Powerade VS. Water is one of the best things for you and we need it to survive because it keeps you hydrated. There are also other drinks that help you hydrate by giving you electrolytes and nutrients lost in sweat like Gatorade and Powerade.
Sodium and potassium are essential electrolytes that maintain water distribution in the body but are lost through sweat during exercise. Gatorade contains 160 milligrams of sodium and 45 milligrams of potassium per serving, while Powerade contains 150 milligrams of sodium and 35 milligrams of potassium per serving. By comparison, Gatorade is slightly superior at replacing lost electrolytes.
Sodium and potassium are the source of the electrolytes found in Powerade. It contains 150 milligrams of sodium and 35 milligrams of potassium per serving, which is pretty good for replacing the electrolytes lost through sweat. Additionally Powerade adds B3, B12, and B6 vitamins for added nutrition.