Make sure you give the calf 10% of his body weight in milk per day. 1  As the calf gets older, the number of feedings per day can start to decrease. 2  Decrease to twice a day when the calf reaches a month old, then once a day when the calf reaches a little over 2 months old. 1 You must feed the calf colostrum within 24 to 72 hours after birth. 2  Any time after and the calf is more subject to illnesses and diseases that could easily kill it. 3  Colostrum needs to be fed once every 2 to 3 hours. 4  Depending on the weight of the calf, you need to feed one or two quarts per feeding.
Properly Manage the Calf Treatment. Use a logical treatment plan for a sick calf, meaning that you set priorities and take action based on importance and needs of the calf and the herd. Sure, you want your calf to recover, but you also don’t want to risk the larger population. Once you have determined the cause, map out a treatment plan to execute. 
Photo by Mitch Mandel. Eccentric Calf Raises: Stand on a step with your heels hanging off the edge. Holding on to the rail, first push yourself up (concentric movement), and the very slowly—to the count of 10 seconds—drop your heels below the level of your feet (eccentric strengthening). Push back up and repeat. Do three sets of 15 daily.
This should take about a week. From then on, keep water, grain and hay in front of the calf at all times. At about this age, you can start breaking the calf to lead. There are several different ways to do this. One way is to fix a halter to a snug fit, not too tight, and lead him to water twice a day. 
1 Depending on the weight of the calf, you need to feed one or two quarts per feeding. 2  If the calf will not take the bottle right away, then you will have to use an esophageal feeder to feed the calf, especially if it is weak from the cold or from a difficult birth. 1 You must feed the calf colostrum within 24 to 72 hours after birth. 2  Any time after and the calf is more subject to illnesses and diseases that could easily kill it. 3  Colostrum needs to be fed once every 2 to 3 hours. 4 
So you bought your first cow or herd of cows and have already set up your fences, shelter and watering areas. Congratulations! Now comes the challenge with taking care of them. Taking care of cows differs between which cows you own: dairy or beef cows. Without feed, don't expect your dairy cows to be producing much milk. You can feed them hay, grain, silage or even let them graze grass if there is plenty of grass for your cows to eat.
If your kids are interested in raising cattle, consider buying bucket calves for your first 4-H or FFA project. Although raising bucket calves is a short-term project, it's a great way to learn responsibility and gain the confidence necessary to care for larger livestock. For additional information about raising budget calves, we suggest the following Web sites: Tips for Raising Bucket Calves: How to help your child choose his or her first bucket calf. Raising a Bucket Calf: Tips for raising bucket calves, including information on housing, feeding, and general medical care. Once-a-Day Feeding: An explanation of the benefits and potential drawbacks to using a once-a-day feeding method for pre-weaned calf care. Add your comment
If you have diabetes, take care of your feet and the rest of your body. People with diabetes can develop serious problems with their feet that can affect how easily they can walk, and even can lead to amputation. Many of these serious problems can be prevented by taking good care of your feet and your health. 
1. Feeding your cows is the first and most important part of taking care of dairy cows. You have to feed them to help them produce milk. Without feed, don't expect your dairy cows to be producing much milk. You can feed them hay, grain, silage or even let them graze grass if there is plenty of grass for your cows to eat.