They should stay with the mother until at least 6 weeks of age, preferably longer if possible. Some does (mothers) will start to get annoyed and you need to separate them for the safety of the kits. They should not be sold or given away until at least 8 week or 2 weeks after you take them from the mother. How long do baby bunnies need to stay with their mom? My sisters rabbit had 3 little cute bunnies and we want to know how long they need to stay with there mom and if we can touch them. Follow. 5 answers 5
A: Baby rabbits need to stay with their mother until they are about 8 weeks old. Baby rabbits start nibbling on hay and pellets at about 2 weeks old. However, just because they start eating on their own does not mean they can be taken away from their mother. They need to continue to feed from their mother until they are about 8 weeks old. Baby rabbits separated from their mother before this time often end up dying. Sexing Rabbits. It is best to have a rabbit-knowledgeable vet or someone at a rabbit rescue group show you how to sex rabbits. An unneutered male rabbit has two pale pink testicles between his back legs.
Older baby bunnies who are found outside of the nest may not be orphaned or in need of assistance. Baby cottontails are born without fur but develop a full coat in a week. Their eyes open in 6-10 days, and in three weeks they are weaned. At this age, they are about as round as a banana, and they may explore the world outside of the nest but return there to sleep. They are not ignored by the mother but stay with the family group until four or five weeks of age. 
You can handle them, but not too much. From birth until their eyes open (about 10-14 days), only handle them to check that they are getting fed, about 5 minutes pet day for each kit. From about 2-6 weeks, you can increase the handling time so they get used to people and being handled. How long do baby bunnies need to stay with their mom? My sisters rabbit had 3 little cute bunnies and we want to know how long they need to stay with there mom and if we can touch them. Follow. 5 answers 5
Often times people are concerned that the mother rabbit is not feeding the babies, sometimes because she is never seen with them. This is normal behavior for a domestic (or wild) rabbit and that mother rabbits do not lay with their offspring in the same manner as dogs and cats. It is best to handle the babies as little as possible until they are old enough to leave the nest box on their own. If your concerns begin on the day of the birth, wait a day before attempting to do anything. Some mother rabbits do not feed their babies until the evening of the first day or early on the second day.
For 6 weeks.   They should stay with mum until they are from 8 to 10 weeks old.   It usual for the kits to stay at the breeders until they are 12 or 14 weeks (4 months … for some breeders). Staying at the same location on the same feed is better for the kit's well being.
Mother rabbits will not stay with their young except for the brief period (perhaps 10 minutes) while they are feeding; often just before dawn. Mother is feeding the babies if their skin is not wrinkled and they are warm and in a bunch. 
Rabbits will foster another's baby if they are the same of the same size and age. The breeder may charge for this service, if they are willing to do it. The breeder may also ask to keep one or more of the babies as stock.. As soon as the babies are weaned, at eight weeks, the mother rabbit should be spayed. It is best to handle the babies as little as possible until they are old enough to leave the nest box on their own. If your concerns begin on the day of the birth, wait a day before attempting to do anything. Some mother rabbits do not feed their babies until the evening of the first day or early on the second day.
The kittens (baby rabbits) can stay with their mother for as long as she'll let them. It's not ideal, though, because it puts strain on the mother. If it's a small litter, and … they're looked after properly, they can be weaned as early as about... five weeks. But waiting for six to eight weeks is ideal. They should stay with mum until they are from 8 to 10 weeks old.   It usual for the kits to stay at the breeders until they are 12 or 14 weeks (4 months … for some breeders). Staying at the same location on the same feed is better for the kit's well being.