A short-stay outlier payment may occur in one of the following scenarios: Background What Are Long-Term Care-Diagnosis Related Groups? Under the Medicare system, Long-Term Care Hospitals (LTCHs) generally treat patients who require hospital-level care for an average of greater than 25 days.
Transitional care hospitals are licensed as acute care hospitals with additional Medicare certification that supports a length of stay measured in weeks (more than 25 days on average for Medicare patients) as compared to the typical five day stay for patients in traditional hospitals.
The national average length of Medicare stay (LOS) is 28 days but up to an estimated 43 days when chronic care with co-morbidity patients are sent to a SNF for rehabilitation after an episodic visit to a hospital. There are also long term care residents under Medicaid that reside in SNFs.
Long‑term care hospitals (LTCHs) are certified as acute‑care hospitals, but LTCHs focus on patients who, on average, stay more than 25 days. Many of the patients in LTCHs are transferred there from an intensive or critical care unit.
The duration and level of long-term care will vary from person to person and often change over time. Here are some statistics (all are “on average”) you should consider: 1  Someone turning age 65 today has almost a 70% chance of needing some type of long-term care services and supports in their remaining years.
Long-term acute care (LTAC) is the type of care provided in Kindred Transitional Care Hospitals. More than 20 years ago, Kindred helped to pioneer the long-term acute model of care. Today, Kindred has a nationwide network of transitional care hospitals unique in their ability to care for medically complex patients who benefit from extended recovery time.
Transitional care hospitals are licensed as acute care hospitals with additional Medicare certification that supports a length of stay measured in weeks (more than 25 days on average for Medicare patients) as compared to the typical five day stay for patients in traditional hospitals.
To qualify as a Long-Term Care Hospital for Medicare payment, a facility must meet Medicare’s conditions of participation for acute care hospitals and have an average length of stay greater than 25 days for its Medicare patients.
The majority of our patients are admitted after a stay in a short-term hospital, often from intensive care and step-down units. Kindred Hospitals specialize in caring for patients with: 1  an average length of stay of 25-30 days.