Sections. A herniated disc can cause muscle spasms and pain in the neck or back, as well as radiating pain, numbness, tingling and muscle weakness in the upper or lower extremities. A herniated disc can cause muscle spasms for two reasons: 1  Inflammation – The nucleus pulposus contains enzymes that cause inflammation and, in turn, pain. 2  Micromotion instability – A weakened annulus fibrosus is less able to absorb impact and control motion within the spine, which is referred to as micromotion instability.
Sections. If you’ve been experiencing sharp bursts of pain in your lower back, what you’re feeling may be a bulging disc causing muscle spasms. Bulging disc-induced muscle contractions can be quick and intermittent, or dull and longer-lasting. Each patient’s experience depends on the severity and location of their bulging disc. Bulging disc symptoms – including muscle contractions – often go away on their own; mild treatment can help reduce the discomfort while the disc heals. For many patients, conservative methods are all that is necessary to manage the tightness, soreness and spasms that accompany
A common cause of lower back and leg pain is a lumbar ruptured disc or herniated disc. Symptoms of a herniated disc may include dull or sharp pain, muscle spasm or cramping, sciatica, and leg weakness or loss of leg function. Sneezing, coughing, or bending usually intensify the pain. Rarely bowel or bladder control is lost, and if this occurs, seek medical attention at once.
Causes of muscle spasms. A herniated disc can cause muscle spasms for two reasons: 1  Inflammation – The nucleus pulposus contains enzymes that cause inflammation and, in turn, pain. 2  The muscles sometimes spasm as the result of pain, further contributing to the patient’s discomfort. A herniated disc can cause muscle spasms for two reasons: 1  Inflammation – The nucleus pulposus contains enzymes that cause inflammation and, in turn, pain. 2  Micromotion instability – A weakened annulus fibrosus is less able to absorb impact and control motion within the spine, which is referred to as micromotion instability.
Herniated Disc Muscle Spasm. A herniated disc muscle spasm is one of the many symptoms often associated with disc bulges, but sometimes actually occurring due to completely unrelated anatomical or psychoemotional issues. Herniated Disc Muscle Spasm Experiences. I know how brutally miserable a muscle spasm in your back or buttocks can be. If you have never had one, thank your good luck and hope that you never will. The forceful contraction in the postural muscles will make you pray for death, rather than endure the continued suffering.
A herniated disc in the neck may cause symptoms in the shoulders, arms or chest. A herniated disc in the lower back may cause sciatica, with leg pain and other nerve-related symptoms. A herniated disc in the lower back may be felt in the buttock and down the back of the leg to the ankle or foot. There may be low back pain, but usually not as severe as leg pain. Other symptoms of a herniated disc may include severe deep muscle pain and muscle spasms. Low back pain that does not involve numbness, tingling and/or weakness, or pain in a leg is not usually due to disc herniation pressing on the nerve roo
Causes. The cause of the muscle spasm lies in the fact that the bulging disc is pressing against the ligament that holds it in place. Since this ligament contains nerves, the result is pain. Because of the initial pain, the back muscles go into spasm as part of the body's effort to immobilize the painful area
Controlling muscle spasms caused by a bulging disc. Although muscle spasms are painful and inconvenient, they don’t have to be a permanent part of your life. Bulging disc symptoms – including muscle contractions – often go away on their own; mild treatment can help reduce the discomfort while the disc heals. For many patients, conservative methods are all that is necessary to manage the tightness, soreness and spasms that accompany their bulging disc.
Herniated discs can cause pain, tingling, weakness and numbness, but will usually only enact spasms in rare instances, such as when they first occur due to traumatic injury. The chances for an existing mild to moderate herniation creating recurrent spasms over months, years or decades is illogical in most patients. Herniated Disc Muscle Spasm Experiences. I know how brutally miserable a muscle spasm in your back or buttocks can be. If you have never had one, thank your good luck and hope that you never will. The forceful contraction in the postural muscles will make you pray for death, rather than endure the continued suffering.