Denotation Definition. Denotation is generally defined as literal or dictionary meanings of a word in contrast to its connotative or associated meanings. Let us try to understand this term with the help of an example. Denotation Examples in Literature. Let us analyze a few examples from literature: 1. An example of denotation literary term can be found in the poetic work of Robert Frost ’s “Mending Wall”: “And on a day we meet to walk the line. And set the wall between us once again. We keep the wall between us as we go.
Definition of Denotation. The denotation of a word is the actual definition of the word rather than the nuances of its meaning or the feelings it implies. The denotation of a word does not carry the associations, emotions, or attitudes that the word might have. The opposite concept is called connotation, which refers to those associations and nuances that a word carries.
Full Definition of RHETORICAL. 1. a: of, relating to, or concerned with rhetoric. 2. a: given to rhetoric: grandiloquent b: verbal. — rhe·tor·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See rhetorical defined for English-language learners. See rhetorical defined for kids. 
As stated above, the definition of denotation is the opposite of the definition of connotation, which refers to the associations and emotions that a word carries in a culture. The denotation of a word is what you can find in a dictionary entry about that word. The denotation of a word does not carry the associations, emotions, or attitudes that the word might have. The opposite concept is called connotation, which refers to those associations and nuances that a word carries.
The connotation of a word refers to the emotional or cultural association with that word rather than its dictionary definition. The connotation definition is therefore not the explicit meaning of the word, but rather the meaning that the word implies. Connotation comes from the Latin word “connotare,” which means, “to mark in addition.”. In some cases, connotation can also be similar to symbolism as it hinges on culturally-accepted meanings.
Denotation refers to the use of the dictionary definition or literal meaning of a word. 
Connotation and denotation are opposite concepts. The denotation of a word is its literal meaning, whereas the connotation is an implicit meaning. As a mnemonic to remember the difference, it can be helpful to note that “denotation” and “dictionary definition” all start with the same letter. The connotation definition is therefore not the explicit meaning of the word, but rather the meaning that the word implies. Connotation comes from the Latin word “connotare,” which means, “to mark in addition.”. In some cases, connotation can also be similar to symbolism as it hinges on culturally-accepted meanings.
Let us analyze a few examples from literature: 1. An example of denotation literary term can be found in the poetic work of Robert Frost ’s “Mending Wall”: “And on a day we meet to walk the line. And set the wall between us once again. Denotation Examples in Literature. Let us analyze a few examples from literature: 1. An example of denotation literary term can be found in the poetic work of Robert Frost ’s “Mending Wall”: “And on a day we meet to walk the line. And set the wall between us once again. We keep the wall between us as we go.
A. Connotation is the literal meaning of a word, while denotation is the figurative meaning. B. Connotation is the implied meaning of a word and/or the emotional associations with it, while denotation is the dictionary definition. C. Connotation is the positive association with a word, while denotation is the negative association with it. The connotation definition is therefore not the explicit meaning of the word, but rather the meaning that the word implies. Connotation comes from the Latin word “connotare,” which means, “to mark in addition.”. In some cases, connotation can also be similar to symbolism as it hinges on culturally-accepted meanings.
Connotation Definition. Connotation refers to a meaning that is implied by a word apart from the thing which it describes explicitly. Words carry cultural and emotional associations or meanings in addition to their literal meanings or denotations. 