How Steel is Made: a Brief Summary of a Blast Furnace: There are two types of metals, ferrous & non-ferrous. Ferrous comes from, or contains iron, while Non-Ferrous does not contain iron. Some examples of ferrous metals would be mild steel, cast iron, high strength steel, and tool steels. Examples of non-ferrous metals would be copper, aluminum, magnesium, titanium, etc. To make steel, iron ore is first mined from the ground.
Stainless steel contains iron, chromium, manganese, silicon, carbon and, in many cases, significant amounts of nickel and molybdenum. These elements react with oxygen from water and air to form a very thin, stable film that consists of such corrosion products as metal oxides and hydroxides. 
Broadly speaking, steel is an alloy of iron that contains up to about 2 percent carbon, while other forms of iron contain about 2–4 percent carbon. In fact, there are thousands of different kinds of iron and steel, all containing slightly different amounts of other alloying elements. Pure iron is too soft and reactive to be of much real use, so most of the iron we tend to use for everyday purposes is actually in the form of iron alloys: iron mixed with other elements (especially carbon) to make stronger, more resilient forms of the metal including steel.
Best Answer: Yes, Rust = oxidization, so the question should be what metals oxidize and that's most of them. But, to actually rust the metal has to contain iron, because iron oxidation is the process that creates rust and is unique to iron. That limits it to iron and its alloy (metal combined with other elements) steel. According to Wikipedia: Rust is a general term for a series of iron oxides, usually red oxides, formed by the reaction of iron and oxygen in the presence of water or air moisture
Iron is the main ingredient in various forms of iron and steel, but the various types of metals contain other elements as well. General Article: The Elements of Steel. Iron is the main ingredient in various forms of iron and steel, but the various types of metals contain other elements as well. Sometimes these elements are unwanted; other times they're intentionally added.
As well as iron and carbon, alloy steels contain one or more other elements, such as chromium, copper, manganese, nickel, silicon, or vanadium. In alloy steels, it's these extra elements that make the difference and provide some important additional feature or improved property compared to ordinary carbon steels. Pure iron is too soft and reactive to be of much real use, so most of the iron we tend to use for everyday purposes is actually in the form of iron alloys: iron mixed with other elements (especially carbon) to make stronger, more resilient forms of the metal including steel.
Stainless steel does not readily corrode, rust or stain with water as ordinary steel does. However, it is not fully stain-proof in low-oxygen, high-salinity, or poor air-circulation environments. There are different grades and surface finishes of stainless steel to suit the environment the alloy must endure. In metallurgy, stainless steel, also known as inox steel or inox from French  inoxydable , is a steel alloy with a minimum of 10.5% chromium content by mass.
Iron-nickel means that the metal is mostly iron but it contains 4-30% nickel as well as a few tenths of a percent cobalt. Iron-nickel metal in meteorites also has high concentrations (by terrestrial standards) of rare metals like gold, platinum, and iridium. 
Stainless Steel Avoids Rust. The best way to avoid rust is to use stainless steel. Like all steel, stainless steel is mostly iron, but it also contains nickel and chromium. These are not just a protective coating, but are melted into the steel itself.
In addition to iron, carbon, and chromium, modern stainless steel may also contain other elements, such as nickel, niobium, molybdenum, and titanium. Nickel, molybdenum, niobium, and chromium enhance the corrosion resistance of stainless steel. 