Right click the printer icon and select Set as Default Printer. Now you can print from metro-style apps and Office 2013 or IE 10 from the desktop. If you want a compatible app for your printer, go into Devices, and select the link to get the recommended app from Windows Store. After it’s installed, you’ll be able to access the utility from the Start Screen. Connect Printer to Surface. Here I’m connecting a Canon MP495 wireless printer. The easiest way to get the correct drivers is by plugging the printer into the USB slot on the right side of the display. Then power on your printer. Go to the desktop and you should see Windows is looking for the correct drivers and installing them
Surface with ARM processors is running Windows RT that only support “in-box printer drivers”. There are lots of printers lacking of an ARM hardware platform driver. To print document or photos from Surface tablet, first you need to have a Windows RT compatibled device. Windows RT compatible Dell/HP printers list. * HP Color LaserJet Printers and MFPs (100/M175 MFP, 200/M251, 200/M276 MFP, 300/M351, 400/M451, 400/M475 MFP, 500/M551, 500/M575 MFP).
[-] How to. 1  How do I install my Epson product on a Windows RT tablet? 2  How do I know if I'm using a 32-bit or 64-bit edition of Windows 8? 3  How do I print with Windows RT? 4  How do I update my Windows 8 system through Windows Update? 5  I connected the printer to my Windows 8 system. 6  Is my Epson product compatible with my Windows 8 Pro device? 7  Is my 8  ... M [-] How to. 1  How do I access the memory card or USB flash drive in my Epson product from Windows RT? 2  How do I install my Epson product on a Windows RT tablet? 3  How do I know if I'm using a 32-bit or 64-bit edition of Windows 8? 4  How do I print with Windows RT? 5  How do I scan with my all-in-one using Windows RT? 6  How do I update my Windows 8 system 7  ... I
Step 4: Look for your printer in the list of devices. 1  If your printer is in the list, you’re ready to print something. 2  If your printer isn't in the list, tap or click Add a device and select your printer to install it. 3  If Windows doesn’t find your printer, see Troubleshoot printing. Step 1: Go to Start, and select Settings Devices. Step 2: Look for your printer in the list of devices. 1  If your printer is in the list, you’re ready to print something. 2  If your printer isn't in the list, select Add a device, and select your printer to install it.
Look for your printer in the list of devices. 1  If your printer is in the list, you’re ready to print something. 2  If your printer isn't in the list, tap or click Add a device and select your printer to install it. 3  If Windows doesn’t find your printer, see Troubleshoot printing. Step 1: Go to Start, and select Settings Devices. Step 2: Look for your printer in the list of devices. 1  If your printer is in the list, you’re ready to print something. 2  If your printer isn't in the list, select Add a device, and select your printer to install it.
Windows supports most printers without downloading a printer driver. To print from an app, open the Devices charm and tap your printer. To print from one of the Office Home and Student 2013 RT Preview apps or desktop Internet Explorer, find the Print command in the app or press Ctrl+P. For more information see printing help. *****Note Windows RT is compatible with printers that are certified for Windows RT. These devices are marked with the “certified for Windows RT logo” and work right out of the box. You don't have to install drivers. Some of your current devices might not work with Windows RT. 2) On your Surface RT, add a printer using Advanced Printer Setup (Windows Key, type advanced printer, click Settings, click on Advanced Printer Setup. 3) Even though Windows 8 may find your printer, click below where it says The printer that I want isn't listed.