Average state farm team member salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. The state farm team member salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges.
Average State Farm Agent Team Member salaries for job postings nationwide are 54% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Re: State Farm Team Member Salary Question. I know a team member (has insurance with me even though she works for SF lol) that has a $50k base and gets $20 per policy so she makes around $60k a year. This is in the DC area and it's just her and one other admin in the agent's office.
The average salary for state farm agent jobs is $32,000. Average state farm agent salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term state farm agent anywhere in the job listing.
State Farm Salary. State Farm average salary is $60,184, median salary is $60,000 with a salary range from $20,800 to $215,000. State Farm salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. State Farm salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only.
State Farm Team Member Salary. I have been working for a State Farm agent for two and a half years now. I just got my bachelor degree and have my P&C, Life, and Health license. I think I am getting under paid for the amount of work I do and my educational background. 
The average salary for state farm team member jobs is $40,000. Average state farm team member salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term state farm team member anywhere in the job listing. The state farm team member salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges.
Average State Farm Agent salaries for job postings nationwide are 49% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
State Farm Team Member Salary Question. I have been working for a State Farm agent for two and a half years now. I just got my bachelor degree and have my P&C, Life, and Health license. I think I am getting under paid for the amount of work I do and my educational background. I know a team member (has insurance with me even though she works for SF lol) that has a $50k base and gets $20 per policy so she makes around $60k a year. This is in the DC area and it's just her and one other admin in the agent's office.