If you are a tenant at will (no lease): Your landlord must give you either a 30-day or 7-day written notice to leave, or he can combine both of these into one notice. Any notice must advise you of your right to contest the eviction in court. 30-day written notice. Your landlord can evict you with 30 days notice for almost any reason or no reason. Exceptions: You may be able to stop the eviction if your landlord is evicting you because of retaliation or illegal discrimination.. Read Retaliation defense and Discrimination defense.
A tenancy-at-will can be either oral or written. Either the landlord or the tenant can terminate a month-to-month tenancy-at-will by giving a written thirty (30) days (minimum) notice to quit that must expire at the end of a rental period. Special attention must be paid to February, which has less than 30 days. 1 The trial date is the day when your tenants and you come to court. 2  If the tenant has not requested a jury trial in their answer, you may have a bench trial in front of a judge that day and your case will be resolved.
NOTE: A notice that your lease will not be renewed or a 28-day notice to end a month-to-month tenancy is a non-renewal notice, NOT an eviction notice. However, if you stay past that date, the landlord can take you to court for eviction for holding over (staying past the lease expiration date). Document any attempts to fix it, and get any agreement in writing. With a 14-day notice, or after the 5-day notice with a right to cure expires, the landlord could refuse your rent and file for an eviction. As of 3/1/12, once the notice expires the landlord can still evict you, even if you pay the rent in full. (Wis. Stat
1 End of lease term. 2  If your lease does not say that it automatically renews when the lease term ends, your landlord can go to court without giving you any notice. 3  But he can do this only during the seven days following the end of your lease term. 4  For example, you have a one year lease that ends on February 28, 2007. 30-day written notice. Your landlord can evict you with 30 days notice for almost any reason or no reason. Exceptions: You may be able to stop the eviction if your landlord is evicting you because of retaliation or illegal discrimination.. Read Retaliation defense and Discrimination defense.
Thus, the eviction process from the end of the notice period can take from five weeks to three months, assuming there are no delays. Consider speaking with a landlord-tenant lawyer in your area if you have additional questions or need legal assistance. After the notice period expires, the landlord may file a lawsuit alleging forcible entry and unlawful detainer. The case will be tried as a summary proceeding in a matter of weeks after the landlord files the lawsuit. If the tenant does not show up to defend the charges, the judge will make a default judgment of guilt.
1 You have to sign and date the notice. 2  How to use more than one notice. 3  Sometimes, you can use more than one type of notice. 4  For example, if your tenant is always late with the rent, you can serve them with a 3 Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit and a 30 Day or 60 Day Notice to Quit. 1 How to use more than one notice. 2  Sometimes, you can use more than one type of notice. 3
To evict you with a 7-day notice, your landlord must have a reason and state that reason in writing. If you are a tenant at will (no lease), the reason must be one of these: 1  You have seriously damaged the apartment and have not repaired the damage. 2  You have been a nuisance to other tenants or neighbors. 30-day written notice. Your landlord can evict you with 30 days notice for almost any reason or no reason. Exceptions: You may be able to stop the eviction if your landlord is evicting you because of retaliation or illegal discrimination.. Read Retaliation defense and Discrimination defense.
1 If you have materially breached the lease, your landlord can serve you with a 7-day notice to quit. 2  The notice must advise you of your right to contest the eviction in court. 3  Read about more 7-day notice rules are below. 30-day written notice. Your landlord can evict you with 30 days notice for almost any reason or no reason. Exceptions: You may be able to stop the eviction if your landlord is evicting you because of retaliation or illegal discrimination.. Read Retaliation defense and Discrimination defense.