Prince Charles was born November 14, 1948. His first military services appointment was in 1969. He currently holds the rank of captain in the Royal Navy and group captain in the Royal Air Force.
Prince Charles was born in 1948, eldest son of the then Princess Elizabeth and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He became Duke of Cornwall and Duke of Rothesay, the traditional titles for the heir to the throne, when his mother became Queen Elizabeth II in 1952. He attended her coronation.
The eldest child of Queen Elizabeth II, Charles is the heir to the British throne. He was born to Elizabeth and Prince Philip in 1948, a year after their marriage and four years before Elizabeth became queen.
On February 24, 1981 the engagement of Charles, Prince of Wales and Lady Diana Spencer was announced at Buckingham Palace. On July 29, 1981 Charles married Princess Diana. The fairy-tale wedding took place at St. Paul's Cathedral. Eleven months later on June 21, 1982 Prince William Windsor was born. William is second in line for the throne after his father.
Prince Charles was born Charles Philip Arthur George on November 14, 1948, in London, England. The son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Charles, prince of Wales, ascended the royal hierarchy at an early age. His mother became queen when he was only three after the death of his grandfather King George VI.
Charles was born at Buckingham Palace on 14 November 1948, at 9.14 pm (GMT), the first child of Princess Elizabeth, Duchess of Edinburgh, and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and first grandchild of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth.
Prince Charles Philip Arthur George Mountbatten was born on November 14, 1948, almost a year after his parents' marriage. His mother is Princess Elizabeth, who later became Queen Elizabeth II and his father is Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
Prince Charles redirects here. For other people known as Prince Charles, see Prince Charles (disambiguation). The Prince Charles, Prince of Wales (Charles Philip Arthur George Mountbatten-Windsor; born Windsor, 14 November 1948), is the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.