If your dry mouth has been caused by the menopause, then a herbal remedy such as Menosan Menopause Support may be effective. This tackles all stages of the menopause, as it contains soy isoflavones which naturally mimic the effect of oestrogen in the body. This is why many women who experience a dry mouth can also experience dry eyes. Additionally, salivary cortisol rises. Before the menopause, this is regulated throughout the day by oestrogen. However, with dropping oestrogen, this limiting factor weakens, resulting in dryness and a burning sensation in the mouth.
When women go through the menopause, they experience significant hormonal changes. In simple terms, as oestrogen drops, this reduces moisture in the mucous membranes. This is why many women who experience a dry mouth can also experience dry eyes. Additionally, salivary cortisol rises. Before the menopause, this is regulated throughout the day by oestrogen. However, with dropping oestrogen, this limiting factor weakens, resulting in dryness and a burning sensation in the mouth. HRT may temporarily help with symptoms of the menopause but it can cause side-effects. When the hormone progesterone is taken, symptoms of dryness in the mouth can actually worsen. When coming off HRT such symptoms may also occur
Menopause may also cause problems with your teeth and gums. When your estrogen levels decrease, your entire body, including your mouth, gets drier, Schmidt says. And when your mouth is dry, bacteria can grow, causing tooth decay and making your gums bleed or recede. 1 Dental Problems Menopause may also cause problems with your teeth and gums. 2  When your estrogen levels decrease, your entire body, including your mouth, gets drier, Schmidt says. 3 
However, to lessen the effects of menopause and dry mouth, you can apply home remedies and treatment for dry mouth in menopause such as the following: 1  Drink plenty of water to hydrate your body and prevent the dryness of your mouth. 2  Drink two glasses of water after waking up in the morning. Among these noticeable changes is the drying out of mucus membranes in the different areas of the body such as the nasal passages, gastrointestinal tract, vagina, and mouth. Based on scientific studies, there is a strong correlation of menopause and dry mouth.
Sip water or sugarless drinks. Avoid drinks with caffeine, such as coffee, tea and some sodas, which can cause the mouth to dry out. Chew sugarless gum or suck on sugarless hard candy to stimulate saliva flow. Don't use tobacco or alcohol, which dry out the mouth. Be aware that spicy or salty foods can cause pain in a dry mouth. It is vital that the body is healthy to maintain stable hormonal levels during this transitional period. Night Sweats and Dry Mouth Explained. Dry mouth refers to the lack of moisture and saliva in a person's mouth. Dry mouth can happen on occasion to anyone; chronic, severe dry mouth is not normal. Night sweats refer to a problem known clinically as sleep hyperhydrosis and result in unpleasant episodes for many sufferers.
The hormonal changes a woman goes through during menopause causes not only hot flashes and mood swings, but dry mouth as well. Dry mouth can cause dental problems due to the lack of saliva in the mouth. Everyone experiences dry mouth from time to time. Although there is nothing we can do to stop the hormonal changes that cause dry mouth during menopause, there are ways to increase the amount of saliva in the mouth, thereby decreasing the risk for tooth decay and bone loss.
Menopausal stage could bring out several unpleasant changes in the woman’s body due to the dramatic decrease of estrogen in the body. Among these noticeable changes is the drying out of mucus membranes in the different areas of the body such as the nasal passages, gastrointestinal tract, vagina, and mouth. Based on scientific studies, there is a strong correlation of menopause and dry mouth. The dryness of the mouth may be accompanied with bitter taste and chronic bad breath along with other unpleasant effects like constipation or diarrhea, indigestion, and flatulence
Menopause is sometimes responsible for bouts of dry skin, particularly around the mouth, nose areas, as well as internally within the eyes. This dryness can be caused by the hormonal imbalances. During menopause, estrogen, progesterone and testosterone levels decline and different types of “dryness” can occur. 
Estrogen backlash. - Menopause. A decrease in estrogen may cause dry mouth, chronic ulcers, sloughing of gum tissue, an abnormal taste sensation and burning-mouth syndrome. Hormonal and vitamin therapy often helps. Estrogen falloff can also contribute to osteoporosis and jaw shrinkage.