Genus. Uroplatus. The incredible satanic leaf-tailed gecko is a master of disguise, with a body that superbly mimics a dead leaf. Its twisted body, veined skin, and tail which looks remarkably like it has been nibbled at by insects or rotted by decay, all help this reptile blend into the foliage of its habitat. Satanic leaf-tailed gecko threats. Studies suggest that leaf-tailed geckos can only inhabit a very specific environment and are not tolerant of any degradation of its natural habitat. This makes the satanic leaf-tailed gecko very vulnerable to the impacts of habitat degradation and harvesting.
The leaf-tailed gecko is a carnivorous animal and the bulk of this lizard's diet is primarily comprised of insects. Leaf-tailed geckos also hunt a number of other invertebrates along with the odd small rodents or reptile should it get the chance. Birds of prey such as owls and eagles, along with rats and snakes are the most common predators of the leaf-tailed gecko in it's native environment. Due to the secretive nature of the leaf-tailed gecko, little is really known about the reproductive behaviours of this reptile.
Mossy leaf-tailed gecko. It may look like this lizard has been overrun with moss, but save your sympathy — that's its skin. This is the mossy leaf-tailed gecko, a master of disguise found only in the forests of Madagascar (click here to enlarge).
Absurd Creature of the Week: Satanic Leaf-Tailed Gecko Wears the World’s Most Unbelievable Camo. Slide: 1 / of 6. Caption: The incredible satanic leaf-tailed gecko does a spot-on impression of a leaf. Thank you, thank you, the gecko says. I'll be here for the three to five years of my expected lifespan.. Piotr Naskrecki / Corbis. Slide: 2 / of 6. Caption: The satanic leaf-tailed gecko is a nocturnal species, so bring a flash
This gives the leaf-tailed gecko excellent camouflage when it is basking in the sun amongst the branches during the day. Leaf-tailed geckos can range in size from just 10cm to more than 30cm in length depending on the species. Birds of prey such as owls and eagles, along with rats and snakes are the most common predators of the leaf-tailed gecko in it's native environment. Due to the secretive nature of the leaf-tailed gecko, little is really known about the reproductive behaviours of this reptile.
The excellent camouflage of the leaf-tailed gecko can make this animal pretty tricky for predators to spot. Birds of prey such as owls and eagles, along with rats and snakes are the most common predators of the leaf-tailed gecko in it's native environment. Due to the secretive nature of the leaf-tailed gecko, little is really known about the reproductive behaviours of this reptile.
Uroplatus is a genus of geckos, commonly referred to as leaf-tail geckos, leaf-tailed geckos, or flat-tailed geckos, which are endemic to Madagascar and its coastal islands, such as Nosy Be. They are nocturnal, insectivorous lizards found exclusively in primary and secondary forest. 
http://oasishd.ca-The leaf-tailed gecko is a master of disguise, blending in with leaves and bark. A clip from Hide & Cheat: An Animal Survival Guide for more information visit: http://bit.ly/UKISbN. Follow us on Facebook: http://facebook.com/oasishdchannel. Follow us on Twitter: 
Uroplatus sikorae is a species of gecko commonly referred to as the mossy leaf-tailed gecko. This species, endemic to Madagascar, is found in primary and secondary forests on the island. The mossy leaf-tailed gecko is uncommon in captivity and often kept in breeding pairs or trios. They eat a variety of appropriately sized insects including crickets and moths. If breeding is successful in captivity, eggs will be laid every 30 days and take 90 days to hatch.