Alaska Sausage and Seafood is known for our smoked seafood, including our line of delicious smoked salmon, as well as our gourmet Alaskan sausages with reindeer meat. Let your friends, family, or clients “taste the best” of these Alaskan treats with one of our gourmet gift packages. Whether you’re looking for sausages with reindeer meat and other gourmet sausages, fine smoked wild salmon or halibut, or gourmet gift packages from Alaska, you’ll find only the best at alaskasausage.com.
“People often eat reindeer meat with cream sauces or other dairy products that are high in fat, but there are certainly healthier ways of cooking the meat. Reindeer is a product with great potential, and there is a clear demand,” he says. With a fat content of only two per cent, reindeer meat is very lean. Beef typically has a fat content of nine percent, with lamb as high as 17 percent.
The reindeer (Rangifer tarandus), also known as caribou in North America, is a species of deer with circumpolar distribution, native to Arctic, Subarctic, tundra, boreal and mountainous regions of northern Europe, Siberia, and North America. This includes both sedentary and migratory populations. Hunting of wild reindeer and herding of semi-domesticated reindeer (for meat, hides, antlers, milk and transportation) are important to several Arctic and Subarctic peoples. In parts of Sapmi, sápmi reindeer pull. Pulks In christmas, Folklore Santa 'claus s flying reindeer are well known for pulling his. sleigh
Pin It. Alaska Reindeer sausage, hot dogs, and bacon-wrapped steaks are one our most popular requests. Reindeer meat has a delicious flavor and is cherished by many meat & sausage lovers. Cook up some sausage patties for breakfast, hot dogs for lunch, and some savory reindeer steaks for dinner. We guarantee that you'll be hard pressed to pick the best one. 
Reindeer sausages are certainly not a new idea in Norway, the Vikings were likely making them as a way of using every part of the animal, to preserve and transport the meat, but it is only recently (the last year) that a fresh line of reindeer sausages has hit the mainstream shelves. Usually you can find reindeer products in specialty sections of the supermarket, as salami or jerky, or in the frozen section in shavings and steaks. Reindeer meat is more common the further north you go in Norway. Some small commercial reindeer producers sell out of their vans or trailers.
If you want your diet to be low in fat and high in B-12, omega-3, omega-6 and essential fatty acids, you might think your only choice is a trip to the fish market. But a recent study from the University of Tromsoe tromsø shows that reindeer is one of the healthiest kinds of meat you can put on your. plate With a fat content of only two per cent, reindeer meat is very lean. Beef typically has a fat content of nine percent, with lamb as high as 17 percent.