Infectious mononucleosis, mono, kissing disease, and glandular fever are all terms popularly used for the very common infection caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). The characteristic symptoms of infection with EBV include fever, fatigue, malaise, and sore throat.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the most common cause of infectious mononucleosis, but other viruses can also cause this disease. It is common among teenagers and young adults, especially college students. At least 25% of teenagers and young adults who get infected with EBV will develop infectious mononucleosis.
About Mononucleosis. Infectious mononucleosis, also called mono, is a contagious disease. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the most common cause of infectious mononucleosis, but other viruses can also cause this disease. It is common among teenagers and young adults, especially college students. At least 25% of teenagers and young adults who get infected with EBV will develop infectious mononucleosis. Symptoms.
The most common symptoms of mono are a high fever, a severe sore throat, swollen lymph nodes (sometimes called swollen glands) and tonsils, and weakness and fatigue. Symptoms usually start 4 to 6 weeks after you are exposed to the virus. Mono can cause the spleen to swell.
Infectious mononucleosis, often called “mono,” refers to a group of symptoms usually caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). It typically occurs in teenagers, but you can get it at any age. The virus is spread through saliva, which is why some people call it the “kissing disease.”.
Mono is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), EBV is a member of the herpesvirus family and is one of the most common viruses to infect humans around the world (CDC).
Mono is usually caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) . The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) can be found in saliva and mucus (and sometimes tears). EBV is not spread by casual contact.
Mono usually is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) . It is most often seen in teens and young adults. Children can get the virus, but it often goes unnoticed because their symptoms are mild. Older adults usually don't get mono, because they have immunity to the virus.