The cricoid cartilage /ˌkraɪkɔɪd ˈkɑːrtɪlɪdʒ/ , or simply cricoid (from the Greek krikoeides meaning ring-shaped), is the only complete ring of cartilage around the trachea. Inferior to it are the rings of cartilage around the trachea (which are not continuous-rather they are C-shaped with a gap posteriorly). The cricoid is joined to the first tracheal ring by the cricotracheal ligament, and this can be felt as a more yielding area between the firm thyroid cartilage and firmer cricoid.
The cricoid cartilage sits just inferior to the thyroid cartilage in the neck, at the level of the C6 vertebra, and is joined to it medially by the median cricothyroid ligament and postero-laterally by the cricothyroid joints. Inferior to it are the rings of cartilage around the trachea (which are not continuous-rather they are C-shaped with a gap posteriorly). The cricoid is joined to the first tracheal ring by the cricotracheal ligament, and this can be felt as a more yielding area between the firm thyroid cartilage and firmer cricoid.
Cricoid cartilage is attached to the thyroid cartilage in the presence of cricothyroid ligament. There is also a cricotracheal ligament that attaches the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea [ 3 ]. The other five are the following: 1  Epiglottis: This is attached to the thyroid gland. 2  It is made up of fibrocartilage with a shape like that of a spoon. 3  Epiglottis and cricoid cartilage are the laryngeal cartilages that are not paired.
The inferior border of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the cricoid cartilage by the cricothyroid membrane in the midline and the cricothyroid muscles on either side. The superior horn along with the entire superior edge of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the hyoid bone by the thyrohyoid membrane. They are pyramidal in shape and have 3 surfaces, a base, and an apex. They are located superior to the cricoid cartilage in the posterior part of the larynx, with the base of the arytenoid cartilages articulating on either side with the posterior aspect of the upper border of the cricoid lamina.
The thyroid gland is one of the body's most important endocrine organs. It is located in the neck just below the thyroid cartilage (Adam's apple) and cricoid cartilage. Although its size can vary, based on each individual's size and iodine intake, the thyroid generally weighs approximately 15-20 grams (1/2 - 3/4 oz). 
The thyroid cartilage is the largest of the nine cartilages that make up the laryngeal skeleton, the cartilage structure in and around the trachea that contains the larynx. The thyroid cartilage is a cartilage that sits in front of the larynx and above the thyroid gland. The cartilage is composed of two halves, which meet in the middle at a peak called the laryngeal prominence, also called the Adam's apple. In the midline above the prominence is the superior thyroid notch.
Cricoid Cartilage Definition and Structure. Cricoid cartilage is an unpaired hyaline cartilage located in the larynx at C6 vertebral level. It rests inferior to the thyroid cartilage. It has a characteristic signet ring shape where the anterior part has an arch and the posterior part is a broad lamina. The other five are the following: 1  Epiglottis: This is attached to the thyroid gland. 2  It is made up of fibrocartilage with a shape like that of a spoon. 3  Epiglottis and cricoid cartilage are the laryngeal cartilages that are not paired.
The cricoid cartilage is a ring of cartilage that surrounds the trachea, or windpipe. It is located near the middle and center of the neck. This cartilage consists of strong connective tissue constituting the dorsal (back) part of the larynx, or voice box. The cricoid cartilage is located slightly below the thyroid cartilage, which it connects with through the medial cricothyroid ligament. It also joins the first tracheal ring through the cricotracheal ligament. The thyroid gland has an anatomical relationship with this cartilage
Fascia and Ligament. The thyroid gland is ensheathed by the visceral fascia, a division of the middle layer of deep cervical fascia, which attaches it firmly to the laryngoskeleton. The anterior suspensory ligament extends from the superior-medial aspect of each thyroid lobe to the cricoid and thyroid cartilage. The posteromedial aspect of the gland is attached to the side of the cricoid cartilage, first and second tracheal ring, by the posterior suspensory ligament (ie, Berry ligament).
It is also anatomically related to the thyroid gland; although the thyroid isthmus is inferior to it, the two lobes of the thyroid extend superiorly on each side of the cricoid as far as the thyroid cartilage above it. Inferior to it are the rings of cartilage around the trachea (which are not continuous-rather they are C-shaped with a gap posteriorly). The cricoid is joined to the first tracheal ring by the cricotracheal ligament, and this can be felt as a more yielding area between the firm thyroid cartilage and firmer cricoid.