Kennedy's domestic policy was a package of social services he called the New Frontier. He also pushed some advancements in civil rights for Blacks and the space program. In … his foreign policy, Kennedy apparently believed in brinkmanship-- pushing to the very edge of war and hoping the enemy backs down. The strategy worked on his two crises with the USSR -- the Berlin blockade and the Cuban missile crisis.
President John F. Kennedy signing Proclamation 3504, authorizing the naval quarantine of Communist Cuba. The Kennedy Doctrine refers to foreign policy initiatives of the 35th President of the United States, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, towards Latin America during his term in office between 1961 and 1963. Kennedy voiced support for the containment of Communism and the reversal of Communist progress in the Western Hemisphere. 
Kennedy deployed a new generation of foreign policy experts, dubbed the best and the brightest. Several of them were from the foreign policy think tanks. Kennedy had been interested in the issues of war and peace since his youth. In his inaugural address Kennedy encapsulated his Cold War stance as following: Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate
A Short History of the Department of State. Kennedy’s close advisers believed that Eisenhower’s foreign policy establishment was stultified, slow moving, overly reliant on brinksmanship and massive retaliation, and complacent. Their fear was that after eight years, the State Department would be unable to implement their new international vision. Kennedy's Foreign Policy. Kennedy’s close advisers believed that Eisenhower’s foreign policy establishment was stultified, slow moving, overly reliant on brinksmanship and massive retaliation, and complacent.
General Article: JFK and Foreign Policy. From his undergraduate days at Harvard, John Kennedy had a strong interest in foreign policy. His senior thesis was an analysis of why Britain failed to maintain a military force comparable to the Germans leading up to World War II. Foreign Policy Matters. In a campaign speech for a Massachusetts State Senate seat in 1951, John Kennedy said, “Foreign policy today, irrespective of what we might wish, in its impact on our daily lives, overshadows everything else.
On the Senate floor in July 1957, Kennedy called boldly for revision of the Eisenhower administration's Eurocentric foreign policy. America, he said, should end its automatic alliance with its colonialist WWII Allies and recognize instead the rising aspirations of the developing world. That responsibility for the failure of our foreign policy in the Far East rests squarely with the White House and the Department of State.. Cong. John F. Kennedy declared on the House floor in January 1949.
Kennedy's domestic policy was a package of social services he called the New Frontier. He also pushed some advancements in civil rights for Blacks and the space program. In his foreign policy, Kennedy apparently believed in brinkmanship-- pushing to the very edge of war and hoping the enemy backs down.
The foreign policy of the John F. Kennedy administration in 1961–1963 saw diplomatic and military initiatives in Europe, Southeast Asia, Latin America and other regions amid considerable Cold War tensions. Several of them were from the foreign policy think tanks. Kennedy had been interested in the issues of war and peace since his youth. In his inaugural address Kennedy encapsulated his Cold War stance as following: Let us never negotiate out of fear.