The estrous cycle, also known as season or heat of a mare occurs roughly every 19–22 days and occurs from early spring into autumn. As the days shorten, most mares enter an anestrus period during the winter and thus do not cycle in this period. 
The day after the mare goes out of heat is the first day of the cycle and the last day of the following heat is the last day of the cycle. The average length of the mare’s estrous cycle is 21 days, which is divided into two phases. The longest phase is called diestrus (out of heat) and lasts 14 to 16 days. The length of diestrus does not vary according to season. 
Usually 21 days after the day the mare first comes into heat, she will start into heat again, but some mares vary anywhere from 18 to 31 days in their heat cycles. Heat periods are generally longer earlier in the breeding season and many older mares have longer than average heat cycles. Ovulation, or the period of time when the mare is fertile and can conceive a foal generally only occurs 24 to 48 hours before the mare goes out of heat. Thus no matter how long she is in heat, ovulation will only occur shortly before the end of her heat cycle. Sperm will only live in the mare's reproduction tract for about 24 hours, so it is absolutely necessary to breed her shortly before she goes out of heat.
During those seasons the mare will have a heat cycle (estrous cycle) about once every 21-23 days and during that cycle, she will have from 3-8 days of standing heat (estrus, note the difference in spelling between the cycle and the standing heat) where she would be receptive to a stallion for breeding. 
The estrous cycle in most mares starts to normalize in late April or early May until August-the normal breeding season for horses. During this time, the mare will have an estrous cycle of 21 days (±3 days). The estrous cycle is composed of two phases: the estrous phase (in heat) and the diestrous phase (out of heat). Estrus usually lasts for 6 days, but can be 4-10 days, depending on the mare. Diestrus is normally 15 days, but may vary from 12-18 days.
Usually by the end of April mares will have regular heat cycles which last until about October. The estrus (heat) cycle during the spring and summer lasts and average of 21 days. That is during each 21 day period one egg is ovulated. For an average of 5 days during that period the mare is receptive to stallions. This referred to as in or showing heat
Mares cycle only during their regular breeding season, which is typically from spring to early fall. During this breeding period, a mare will cycle ever 21? 23 days. During this time, there will be approximately eight days when her body would be receptive to breeding? this is called her estrus period. Mares can experience a range of symptoms either before, during, or after this period. Each mare will be unique.
Length of day plays a major role in the mare's heat cycle by influencing the hormones that control it. Horses are long-day seasonal polyestrous breeders, and mares typically come in heat about every 18 to 21 days from April to October. This is nature's way of ensuring that winter weather won't greet foals born 11 months after mating.
Estrous-Refers to the entire reproductive cycle. The average length of the estrous cycle is 21 to 23 days (from one ovulation to the next). Estrus-Refers to “heat,” the period when the mare is receptive to the stallion (usually lasts about five to six days). During this time, the mare under-goes a series of cycles, each approximately 22 days in length. The estrous cycle is divided into two physiological parts—estrus and diestrus. Estrus is typically referred to as the time the mare is in heat.
The average length is three weeks, with most falling within the range of 18- to 23-day cycles. The mare will be in season (show heat) for an average of five days during each cycle, with a range of three to seven or eight days. 