Types of Tender Plants. Tender perennials are usually categorized as half-hardy perennials, subtropical and tropical. These categories are based on the plant’s ability to tolerate certain temperatures. Half-hardy plants can tolerate long periods of cold temperatures, but they will not survive frost. Most plants classified as tender do not thrive in cold temperatures, while those classified as hardy can survive wintry conditions, although the lowest temperature these plants can handle varies from plant to plant.
Having said that, a tender perennial is a plant that is a true perennial (lives longer than two years in the garden), but is not hardy in the zone where its being sold, and will not survive the winter if left outside. A lot of the plants that are sold as annuals here in MN are actually tender perennials. Annuals are plants that you have to replant every year. True annuals are plants that, in one growing season, start from seed, quickly grow to maturity, bloom continuously, set seed and then die. Most annuals grown here in zone 4 will be killed off by frost before they reach the end of their life-cycle.
Some of our most useful plants in the summer garden are tender perennials. Many of them provide abundant color for a long period of time but unfortunately they die when cold weather comes. Examples are impatiens, coleus, petunia, and the common geranium (Pelargonium). Tender perennials can be brought indoors in areas where winters are too cold for them. Geraniums, coleus, impatiens, and wax begonia winter well indoors and can be put back outside when temperatures warm up. They make nice container plants so bringing them indoors can be a plus.
Frost Tender or Heat Tender. The basic definition of a tender plant is a perennial plant that will not survive the winter outdoors because it is sensitive to frost, but some plants are also labeled as heat tender. Most plants classified as tender do not thrive in cold temperatures, while those classified as hardy can survive wintry conditions, although the lowest temperature these plants can handle varies from plant to plant.
Dahlias are tender perennials in zones 8 and lower. Perennials are plants that live for three years or longer, categorized as either woody perennials or herbaceous perennials. The above-ground parts of herbaceous perennials' typically die down to ground level over winter. Of these herbaceous perennials, hardy plants are those most likely to survive the winter. Tender perennials are the plants least likely to survive the winter, and half-hardy perennials survive better than tender perennials but not as well as hardy perennials.
The term “tender” is typically given to perennial plants, although some annuals are grown as tender perennials in warmer climates. The term “tender” is usually used in reference to perennial plants. Annual plants are those whose life cycle lasts one year, and these plants are typically propagated by seed. Most plants classified as tender do not thrive in cold temperatures, while those classified as hardy can survive wintry conditions, although the lowest temperature these plants can handle varies from plant to plant.
A perennial plant or simply perennial is a plant that lives for more than two years. The term is often used to differentiate a plant from shorter-lived annuals and biennials. The term is also widely used to distinguish plants with little or no woody growth from trees and shrubs, which are also technically perennials. 
A tender perennial is unlikely to survive any frost; a half-hardy perennial may be able to survive the same frost that killed the tender perennial. There are no absolute temperature values to discuss when assessing the cold tolerance of perennials. Of these herbaceous perennials, hardy plants are those most likely to survive the winter. Tender perennials are the plants least likely to survive the winter, and half-hardy perennials survive better than tender perennials but not as well as hardy
Contact Us. Perennials This time the Latin 'perennis' means 'many years'. Sometimes called 'herbaceous perennials', which simply means they 'disappear' in winter. In fact, they die back to a rootstock where next year's shoots are protected and then magically grow back each spring. But 'bedding' is usually taken to mean those half-hardy annuals or half-hardy perennials planted out to make a splash of colour in the summer. For example; petunias, begonias, pelargoniums and calceolarias. Find out more about taking delphinium cuttings and growing chrysanthemums and fuchsias on the main site.