A mineral, by definition, is any naturally occurring, inorganic substance, often additionally characterized by an exact crystal structure. Its chemical structure can be exact, or can vary within limits. Native elements that occur naturally are also considered minerals. Another unique category of minerals is the organic minerals. While this term is technically an oxymoron, since the definition of a mineral requires it to be inorganic, there are several naturally occuring rare organic substances with a definitive chemical formula.
Minerals can be described by various physical properties which relate to their chemical structure and composition. Common distinguishing characteristics include crystal structure and habit, hardness, lustre, diaphaneity, colour, streak, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, parting, and specific gravity. More specific tests for minerals include magnetism, taste or smell, radioactivity and reaction to acid.
1. The physical characteristics of minerals include traits which are used to identify and describe mineral species. These traits include color, streak, luster, density, hardness, cleavage, fracture, tenacity, and crystal habit. 
The physical characteristics of minerals include traits which are used to identify and describe mineral species. These traits include Shape, Color, Streak, Luster, Density, Hardness, Cleavage, Fracture, Tenacity, and Crystal Habit. Mohs hardness scale is a relative scale that is used to describe the hardness of minerals. In order to define his scale, Mohs assembled a set of common reference minerals of varying hardnesses and labled these in order of increasing hardness from 1 to 10.
A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  Has a regular crystal structure. 4  Made by nature which means minerals are not made, directly or indirectly, from human activity. 5  Has a predictable chemical formula. A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  There is one unusual exception. 4  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 5  Has a regular crystal structure. 6  The crystal structures are described as crystal systems.
Minerals. Minerals are defined as naturally occurring, inorganic, solids with a definite chemical composition and a regular, internal crystalline structure. The keys to this definition are the chemical composition and the crystalline structure. Different chemical compositions result in different minerals. A good example is the mineral plagioclase. Determination of the actual chemical composition and crystalline structure of a mineral is difficult without the proper equipment. In an introductory level lab it is impossible for us to determine these two aspects of a mineral. Fortunately, these two aspects determine a mineral's physical properties.
Defining a mineral. A mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic solid, with a definite chemical composition, and an ordered atomic arrangement. This may seem a bit of a mouthful, but if you break it down it becomes simpler. 1  Minerals are naturally occurring. 2  They are not made by humans. 3  Minerals are inorganic
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. Common distinguishing characteristics include crystal structure and habit, hardness, lustre, diaphaneity, colour, streak, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, parting, and specific gravity. More specific tests for minerals include magnetism, taste or smell, radioactivity and reaction to acid.
Minerals are natural compounds formed through geological processes. Minerals are needed by the body in small amounts to help it function properly and stay strong. Iron, calcium, potassium, and sodium are some of essential minerals. Mohs hardness scale is a relative scale that is used to describe the hardness of minerals. In order to define his scale, Mohs assembled a set of common reference minerals of varying hardnesses and labled these in order of increasing hardness from 1 to 10.