The gases in the atmosphere that absorb radiation are known as greenhouse gases (sometimes abbreviated as GHG) because they are largely responsible for the greenhouse effect. The greenhouse effect, in turn, is one of the leading causes of global warming. The most significant greenhouse gases are water vapor (H 2 O), carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4) and nitrous oxide (N 2 O), according to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). A greenhouse gas is any gaseous compound in the atmosphere that is capable of absorbing infrared radiation, thereby trapping and holding heat in the atmosphere.
The greenhouse effect is caused by the interaction of the sun's energy with greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases in the Earth's atmosphere. The ability of these gases to trap heat is what causes the greenhouse effect. 
Many greenhouse gases occur naturally. Carbon dioxide, methane, water vapor, and nitrous oxide are naturally present in Earth's atmosphere. Others, such as chorofluorocarbons (CFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), are human made. A greenhouse gas (GHG) is any gas in the atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation in the thermal infrared range. These are the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect, which results in increased temperatures on Earth. The greenhouse effect occurs as the gases reach Earth’s surface.
The major natural greenhouse gases are water vapor, which causes about 36-70% of the greenhouse effect on Earth (not including clouds); carbon dioxide CO 2, which causes 9-26%; methane, which causes 4-9%, and ozone, which causes 3-7%. The increase of greenhouse gas concentration (mainly carbon dioxide) led to a substantial warming of the earth and the sea, called global warming. In other words: The increase in the man-made emission of greenhouse gases is the cause for global warming. For the effects of global warming see below.
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Without greenhouse gases, the average temperature of Earth's surface would be about 15 °C (27 °F) colder than the present average of 14 °C (57 °F).
Behind the struggle to address global warming and climate change lies the increase in greenhouse gases in our atmosphere. A greenhouse gas is any gaseous compound in the atmosphere that is capable of absorbing infrared radiation, thereby trapping and holding heat in the atmosphere. By increasing the heat in the atmosphere, greenhouse gases are responsible for the greenhouse effect, which ultimately leads to global warming
1 Water vapor. 2  The most abundant greenhouse gas, but importantly, it acts as a feedback to the climate. 3  Water vapor increases as the Earth's atmosphere warms, but so does the possibility of clouds and precipitation, making these some of the most important feedback mechanisms to the greenhouse effect. Gases, such as water vapor, which respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are seen as feedbacks.. Gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect include: 1 
Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the greenhouse effect 1 — warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. Gases, such as water vapor, which respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are seen as feedbacks.. Gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect include: 1  Water vapor. 2  The most abundant greenhouse gas, but importantly, it acts as a feedback to the climate.
Best Answer: There are a handful of greenhouse gases; the most talked about these days is carbon dioxide (CO2.) The others are methane, nitrous oxide, ozone, CFCs, and believe it or not, water vapor. These greenhouse gases adsorb, reflect, and emit infrared radiation. When we burn fossil fuels, we increase the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Chlorofluorocarbons are added. These gases form a shield which traps the energy, making the earth warmer. This is the greenhouse effect.
Greenhouse gases are the cause of Greenhouse effect.The greenhouse gases which include CO2, Methane etc. trap the heat in the Earth's atmosphere and don't allow it to escape. … This has kept the earth's atmosphere warm enough for life for millions of years. Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere absorb most of the infrared radiation emitted by the surface and pass the absorbed heat to other atmospheric gases through molecular collisions. The greenhouse gases also radiate in the infrared range.