sulfacetamide sodium. An anti-infective, bacteriostatic drug of the sulfonamide family, used topically against infections and injuries, as well as minor abrasions, of the conjunctiva and cornea. It should not be used immediately following a local anaesthetic. 
USES: This medication is used to treat acne. It works by stopping the growth of certain bacteria on the skin that can worsen acne. Sodium sulfacetamide belongs to a class of drugs known as sulfa antibiotics. HOW TO USE: This medication is for use on the skin only.Shake the container well before each use. With clean hands, apply a thin film of the lotion to the areas of skin with acne, usually twice daily or as directed by your doctor. 
Sulfacetamide sodium topical (for the skin) is used to treat acne, dandruff, seborrheic dermatitis (red, flaking skin rash), and certain skin infections. Sulfacetamide sodium topical may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. To use sulfacetamide sodium soap, wet the skin and apply enough of the medicine to work into a lather. Massage the lather on the skin gently and then rinse thoroughly with plain water. Pat the skin dry with a clean towel.
Sulfacetamide ophthalmic is an antibiotic. Sulfacetamide ophthalmic is used to treat bacterial infections of the eyes. Sulfacetamide ophthalmic may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. Do not touch the dropper or tube opening to any surface, including your eyes or hands. The dropper or tube opening is sterile. If it becomes contaminated, it could cause an infection in your eye
Make sure the treatment area is clean and dry before using sulfacetamide sodium topical cream, gel, lotion, or solution. Apply the medicine in a thin layer and rub in gently. To use sulfacetamide sodium soap, wet the skin and apply enough of the medicine to work into a lather. Massage the lather on the skin gently and then rinse thoroughly with plain water. Pat the skin dry with a clean towel.
Sulfacetamide has antibacterial activity and is used to control acne. Products containing sulfacetamide and sulfur (a keratolytic) are commonly promoted for the treatment of acne rosacea (rosacea with papules, pustules, or both). There are several prescription topical products containing sulfacetamide, such as foams, shampoos, cream and washes. Sulfacetamide is synthesized either by direct alkylation of acetamide with 4-aminobenzenesulfonyl chloride, or by reacting 4-aminobenzenesulfonamide with acetic anhydride and subsequent selective, reductive deacylation of the resultant acetamide using a system of zinc-sodium hydroxide.
Sulfacetamide has been investigated for use in the treatment of pityriasis versicolor and rosacea. It also has anti-inflammatory properties when used to treat blepharitis or conjunctivitis (in eye-drop solution). Sulfacetamide is synthesized either by direct alkylation of acetamide with 4-aminobenzenesulfonyl chloride, or by reacting 4-aminobenzenesulfonamide with acetic anhydride and subsequent selective, reductive deacylation of the resultant acetamide using a system of zinc-sodium hydroxide.
1 Review. Sulfacetamide sodium is an antibiotic that fights bacteria on the skin. Sulfacetamide sodium topical (for the skin) is used to treat acne, dandruff, seborrheic dermatitis (red, flaking skin rash), and certain skin infections. Sulfacetamide sodium topical may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use this medicine if you are allergic to sulfa drugs. You should not use this medicine if you are allergic to sulfacetamide sodium or sulfa drugs. To make sure this medicine is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  lupus; 2  asthma; or. 3  a sulfite allergy.
Sulfacetamide 10% topical lotion, sold under the brand name Klaron or Ovace, is approved for the treatment of acne and seborrheic dermatitis. When combined with sulfur, it is sold under the brand names Plexion, Clenia, Prascion, and Avar, which contain 10% sulfacetamide and 5% sulfur. Sulfacetamide is synthesized either by direct alkylation of acetamide with 4-aminobenzenesulfonyl chloride, or by reacting 4-aminobenzenesulfonamide with acetic anhydride and subsequent selective, reductive deacylation of the resultant acetamide using a system of zinc-sodium hydroxide.
Bleph-10 (sulfacetamide sodium ophthalmic solution 10%) is an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections of the eyes. Our Bleph-10 (sulfacetamide sodium ophthalmic solution 10%) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication.