From the Hebrew name דָּנִיֵּאל (Daniyyel) meaning God is my judge. Daniel was a Hebrew prophet whose story is told in the Book of Daniel in the Old Testament. He lived during the Jewish captivity in Babylon, where he served in the court of the king, rising to prominence by interpreting the king's dreams. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Daniella is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Daniella is: God has judged, or God is judge. The Old Testament Daniel was a 6th century BC prophet who miraculously survived the den of lions. American Meaning: The name Daniella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Daniella is: God has judged, or God is judge. The Old Testament Daniel was a 6th century BC prophet who miraculously survived the den of lions.
Daniel /da-niel/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced DAN-yel. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Daniel is God is my judge. Biblical: the prophet and writer of the book of Daniel was a teenager when he was taken to Babylon after the destruction of Jerusalem in 607 BC. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Daniela. Daniela is a Latinate feminine form of the male name Daniel. The name Daniel comes from the Hebrew word “daniy'el” which translates to “God is my judge.” The name is borne of the Hebrew Bible and Old Testament – he is a prophet whose story is told in the Book of Daniel.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Daniela is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Daniela is: God is my judge. American Meaning: The name Daniela is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Daniela is: God is my judge.
The name Daniella is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Daniella is: God has judged, or God is judge. The Old Testament Daniel was a 6th century BC prophet who miraculously survived the den of lions. American Meaning: American Meaning: The name Daniella is an American baby name. In American
Meaning of Daniela. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Daniela means-god is my judge. Other origins for the name Daniela include-Spanish, Hebrew.The name Daniela is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-god is my judge
Danielle is the French female variant of the male name Daniel, meaning God is my judge in the Hebrew language. The name appears in the Bible, where Daniel survives a night in a den of lions. The more common feminine version is Daniella or Daniela which is used in English-, German-, Italian-, Portuguese-and Spanish-speaking countries.