The bivalves are a group of mollusks which includes clam, mussels, a … nd oysters, all of which have two shells enclosing the animal, hence their classification as bivalves. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. This is from Wikipedia: Bivalves have a shell consisting of two asymmetrically rounded halves called valves that are mirror images of each other, joined at one edge by a flexible ligament called the hinge.
Like fish, bivalve mollusks breathe through their gills. As filter feeders, bivalves gather food through their gills. Some bivalves have a pointed, retractable foot that protrudes from the shell and digs into the surrounding sediment, effectively enabling the creature to move or burrow. Bivalves even make their own shells.
Clams. Hardshell Clams. Clams belong to the group of animals called bivalves, which includes clams, mussels, oysters, and scallops. The soft body parts of these animals are enclosed between two shells; hence, the word bivalve. Bivalves are closely related to limpets, abalone, snails, slugs, squids, and octopuses. 
Answer   Bivalves are mollusks belonging to the class Bivalvia. They typically have two-part shells, with both valves being symmetrical along the hinge line. The cl … ass has 30,000 species, including scallops, clams, oysters and mussels. Other names for the class include Bivalva, Pelecypoda, and Lamellibranchia. Crabs are not considered bivalves. The bivalves are a group of mollusks which includes clam, mussels, a … nd oysters, all of which have two shells enclosing the animal, hence their classification as bivalves. 3 people found this useful. Radon777.
Like most bivalves, mussels have a large organ called a foot. In freshwater mussels, the foot is large, muscular, and generally hatchet-shaped. It is used to pull the animal through the substrate (typically sand, gravel, or silt) in which it lies partially buried. The word mussel is most frequently used to mean the edible bivalves of the marine family Mytilidae, most of which live on exposed shores in the intertidal zone, attached by means of their strong byssal threads (beard) to a firm substrate.
Bivalves include clams, oysters, cockles, mussels, scallops, and numerous other families that live in saltwater, as well as a number of families that live in freshwater. The majority are filter feeders. The gills have evolved into ctenidia, specialised organs for feeding and breathing. Oysters, scallops, clams, ark clams, mussels and cockles are the most commonly consumed kinds of bivalve, and are eaten cooked or raw. In 1950, the year in which the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) started making such information available, world trade in bivalve molluscs was 1,007,419 tons.
The generally accepted systematic name (in contrary to some others) of all mussels, clams and scallops-Bivalvia-the two-valve molluscs-refers to the most important character of all bivalves, that separates them from all other molluscs: The shell is separated into two pieces. A bivalve's foot is adapted to how it lives and moves. So there are different types of feet in bivalves, from beam-shaped, tongue-shaped or worm-shaped feet. Swimming mussels, as well as completely sessile mussels, often have a largely reduced foot.
Bivalvia is a class of mollusks that all have two shells. It includes the clams, oysters, scallops and mussels. There are over 20,000 species of bivalves around the world, and probably thousands not yet discovered. Nearly all of them live in salt water, but a few groups have evolved to live in freshwater.
The common name mussel is also used for many freshwater bivalves, including the freshwater pearl mussels. Freshwater mussel species inhabit lakes, ponds, rivers, creeks, canals, and they are classified in a different subclass of bivalves, despite some very superficial similarities in appearance. The word mussel is most frequently used to mean the edible bivalves of the marine family Mytilidae, most of which live on exposed shores in the intertidal zone, attached by means of their strong byssal threads (beard) to a firm substrate.
Answer   Bivalves are mollusks belonging to the class Bivalvia. They typically have two-part shells, with both valves being symmetrical along the hinge line. The cl … ass has 30,000 species, including scallops, clams, oysters and mussels. Other names for the class include Bivalva, Pelecypoda, and Lamellibranchia. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. This is from Wikipedia: Bivalves have a shell consisting of two asymmetrically rounded halves called valves that are mirror images of each other, joined at one edge by a flexible ligament called the hinge.