The CFO is similar to a treasurer or controller in that he or she is responsible for overseeing the accounting and finance departments and for ensuring that the company's financial reports are accurate and completed on time.
Position Description: Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Comments: The content of the following job description is based on the assumption that the CFO has proper staffing to address accounting and treasury functions.
Chief Executive Officer-CEO. This is the senior manager who is responsible for overseeing the activities of an entire company. The CEO usually also holds a position on the board of directors, or also holds the title of president. Chief Financial Officer-CFO.
The senior manager responsible for overseeing the financial activities of an entire company. The CFO's duties include financial planning and monitoring cash flow. He or she analyzes the company's financial strengths and weaknesses and suggests plans for improvement.
CEO, CFO, COO,& CTO. Chief Executive Officer-CEO This is the senior manager who is responsible for overseeing the activities of an entire company. The CEO usually also holds a position on the board of directors, or also holds the title of president.
For other uses, see CFO (disambiguation) . The chief financial officer (CFO) or chief financial and operating officer (CFOO) is a corporate officer primarily responsible for managing the financial risks of the corporation. This officer is also responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to higher management.
DEFINITION of 'Chief Financial Officer-CFO'. The senior manager responsible for overseeing the financial activities of an entire company. The CFO's duties include financial planning and monitoring cash flow. He or she analyzes the company's financial strengths and weaknesses and suggests plans for improvement.
In this sample job description for a nonprofit chief financial officer, the organization runs programs nationally and has complex funding sources. The CFO focuses strictly on finance, accounting, and the investment activities of the organization.