Keratinocyte cells are the building blocks of the skin. They are the most common type of skin cell and make keratin, a protein found in skin, hair, and nails. Keratinocytes are knitted tightly together to form seams between the nerves of the skin and the underlying tissues of the epidermis. Found in hair, keratin is a protein produced by keratinocyte cells. Found in nails, keratin is a protein produced by keratinocyte cells. The stratum is the outermost layer of epidermis that contains dead keratinocyte cells. Pomegranate seed extract may be able to protect keratinocytes from UV damage. Keratinocytes are the most common skin cell
Structure and Function: 95% of the cells in the epidermis are keratinocytes. These cells are found in the basal layer of the stratified epithelium that comprises the epidermis, and are sometimes referred to as basal cells, or basal keratinocytes. Squamous keratinocytes are also found in the mucosa of the mouth and esophagus, as well as the corneal, conjunctival, and genital epithelia. These cells are responsible for forming tight junctions with the nerves of the skin. They also keep Langerhans cells of the epidermis, and lymphocytes of the dermis, in place.
the time required for a keratinocyte to move from its origin in the actively dividing cells of the stratum basale to the surface of the epidermis where it is shed. Called also epidermal renewal time. In the normal dog, this is approximately 22 days. Etymology: Gk, keras + kytos, cell. an epidermal cell that synthesizes keratin and other proteins and sterols. These cells constitute 95% of the epidermis, being formed from undifferentiated, or basal, cells at the dermal-epidermal junction.
Differentiation of Keratinocytes: Keratinocyte stem cells reside in the basal layer of the epidermis, which is the lowest layer of the stratified epithelia. These cells divide to give rise to transient amplifying cells which divide further, and differentiate, as they move upwards in the epidermis. Squamous keratinocytes are also found in the mucosa of the mouth and esophagus, as well as the corneal, conjunctival, and genital epithelia. These cells are responsible for forming tight junctions with the nerves of the skin. They also keep Langerhans cells of the epidermis, and lymphocytes of the dermis, in place.
Medical Definition of KERATINOCYTE. : an epidermal cell that produces keratin. What made you want to look up keratinocyte? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible). View Seen & Heard Highlights from Around the Site. Test Your Vocabulary! Test Your Vocabulary! 
Keratinocyte-human cell-function. Keratinocyte-The cell type that makes up most of the epidermis, also called a squamous cell. Keratinocytes originate in the first of the four layers of the epidermis, the stratum basale. Here they either replicate to generate new keratinocytes or migrate upward. Migratory keratinocytes acquire melanin from melanocytes
A keratinocyte is the predominant cell type in the epidermis, the outermost layer of the skin, constituting 90% of the cells found there. Those keratinocytes found in the basal layer (stratum basale) of the skin are sometimes referred to as basal cells or basal keratinocytes. At each stage of differentiation, keratinocytes express specific keratins, such as keratin 1, keratin 5, keratin 10 and keratin 14, but also other markers such as involucrin, loricrin, transglutaminase, filaggrin and caspase 14.
keratinocyte. [kerat′inōsīt′]. Etymology: Gk, keras + kytos, cell. an epidermal cell that synthesizes keratin and other proteins and sterols. These cells constitute 95% of the epidermis, being formed from undifferentiated, or basal, cells at the dermal-epidermal junction.