Causes : Bumps are formed due to injury caused to the tongue accidentally. You may bit your tongue or your tongue may get infected whiel eating any sharp food stuffs causing swelling and pain on the tongue. Eating huge quantities of acidic foods can also cause bumps. It would cause pain and irritation. Bumps are formed due to the infection caused by the fungus and it may affect your taste buds. In medical terms, bumps are called lingual papillitis. Leukoplakia is the term given to thickened bumps formed
Bumps are small pimple like structure found on the tongue either on the top or on the backside of the tongue. It would cause pain and irritation. Bumps are formed due to the infection caused by the fungus and it may affect your taste buds. In medical terms, bumps are called lingual papillitis. Leukoplakia is the term given to thickened bumps formed on the tongue.
Sore tongue or bumps on the tongue. There are many things that can make your tongue sore or cause painful tongue bumps, including: 1  Biting or scalding. 2  Accidentally biting your tongue or scalding it on something straight out of the oven can result in a sore tongue until the damage heals. 
2. If you bite or burn your tongue it can cause bumps to appear, but this is more likely to occur at the front of the tongue rather than the back. Sometimes brushing too hard with your toothbrush can cause the tongue to become irritated and bumps to appear. Trauma. If you bite or burn your tongue it can cause bumps to appear, but this is more likely to occur at the front of the tongue rather than the back. Sometimes brushing too hard with your toothbrush can cause the tongue to become irritated and bumps to appear.
Inflammation of the tongue can lead to damage of the taste buds, tiny sensors on the surface of the tongue. Some of the more common causes of sore or painful tongue include canker sores, cold sores, bite injuries, and burns. In some cases, pain that originates in other sources (such as cardiac angina or problems with the teeth and/or jaws) can be experienced in the tongue, even though the tongue itself is normal. A number of different conditions can result in pain and/or the presence of abnormalities, bumps, ulcers, or sores on the tongue as well as symptoms like pain, swelling, or burning of the tongue. Problems with the tongue can result from infections, tumors, chronic medical conditions, trauma, or toxins.
If you bite your tongue, you may develop a sore that can last for days and be very painful. A minor infection on the tongue is not uncommon and can cause pain and irritation. Inflamed papillae, or taste buds, are small, painful bumps that appear after an injury from a bite, or irritation from hot foods. A canker sore is another common cause of pain on the tongue. This is a small, white sore that can arise for no apparent reason. Canker sores may be caused by a virus, in that case it is called a viral ulcer. In many cases the cause of a canker sore is unknown and referred to as an aphthous ulcer
A. There are many things that can make your tongue sore or cause painful tongue bumps to form, including: 1  Trauma. 2  Accidentally biting your tongue or scalding it on something straight out of the oven can result in a sore tongue until the damage heals. sore tongue, swollen, sores on the side of my mouth and tongue, tongue sores white in color. The opinions expressed here are solely those of the User. The opinions expressed here are solely those of the User.User-generated content areas are not reviewed by a WebMD physician.
Causes of Bumps on Tongue. Most of the tiny red bumps that are on the tongue are referred to as papillae and they cover the total surface of the tongue. Most of them have taste buds which are the receptor organs for detecting tastes and then send the information over to the brain.
Enlarged Papillae: In some cases, large bumps on back of tongue may be due to a taste bud (or papillae) becoming irritated or inflamed, in which case it may swell, forming a painful bump. Oral Thrush: This type of yeast infection tends to affect the elderly (who wear dentures) and infants more frequently. Smoking: Excessive smoking will irritate your tongue, causing soreness and potential bumps. Specific Medical Conditions: Some types of medical conditions (including anemia and diabetes) may lead to a sore tongue as one of the symptoms.