Helium is a chemical element with symbol He and atomic number 2. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, inert, monatomic gas that heads the noble gas group in the periodic table. Its boiling and melting points are the lowest among all the elements. Helium has a valence of zero and is chemically unreactive under all normal conditions. It is an electrical insulator unless ionized. As with the other noble gases, helium has metastable energy levels that allow it to remain ionized in an electrical discharge with a voltage below its ionization potential.
Helium-3 was thought to be a radioactive isotope until helions were also found in samples of natural helium, which is mostly helium-4, taken both from the terrestrial atmosphere and from natural gas wells. Some of the helium-3 found in the terrestrial atmosphere is also a relic of atmospheric and underwater nuclear weapons testing, conducted by the three big nuclear powers before 1963. Most of this comes from the decay of tritium (hydrogen-3), which decays into helium-3 with a half life of 12.3 years.
The element helium is an inert or noble gas, and is found on the periodic table with the other inert gases in Group 18. They're the elements down the far right column of the table. Helium, which is the second most abundant element in the universe (behind hydrogen) is about a quarter of all matter. It is a gas here on earth, and can only be liquefied if it is cooled to near absolute zero. It will not solidify, by the way. Outside earth, it is mostly found in stars where it is a plasma. We know that helium, which is colorless, odorless and tasteless, does not want to chemically combine with any other atoms. It has a valence of zero, and it is found on earth as a monatomic gas, hanging around as single atoms
On Earth it is relatively rare — 5.2 ppm by volume in the atmosphere. Most terrestrial helium present today is created by the natural radioactive decay of heavy radioactive elements (thorium and uranium, although there are other examples), as the alpha particles emitted by such decays consist of helium-4 nuclei. Helium has a valence of zero and is chemically unreactive under all normal conditions. It is an electrical insulator unless ionized. As with the other noble gases, helium has metastable energy levels that allow it to remain ionized in an electrical discharge with a voltage below its ionization potential.
Helium deposits in the earth's crust are thought to have been created by radioctive decay of elements like uranium and thorium. But the largest naturally occuring source of helium is found in natural gas. Helium (and the other noble gases that are normally chemically unreactive) are found in volcanic gas emissions. But unless it is really, really large you're not going to be mining it for helium; there just wouldn't be enough to collect there to make it worthwhile.
Helium is named for the Greek god of the Sun, Helios. It was first detected as an unknown yellow spectral line signature in sunlight during a solar eclipse in 1868 by French astronomer Jules Janssen. Helium has a valence of zero and is chemically unreactive under all normal conditions. It is an electrical insulator unless ionized. As with the other noble gases, helium has metastable energy levels that allow it to remain ionized in an electrical discharge with a voltage below its ionization potential.
Helium is the second lightest element and is the second most abundant element in the observable universe, being present at about 24% of the total elemental mass, which is more than 12 times the mass of all the heavier elements combined. Helium has a valence of zero and is chemically unreactive under all normal conditions. It is an electrical insulator unless ionized. As with the other noble gases, helium has metastable energy levels that allow it to remain ionized in an electrical discharge with a voltage below its ionization potential.
After hydrogen, Helium is the second lightest element and also the second most abundant element in the universe, (hydrogen being number one), created during big bang nucleosynthesis and to a lesser extent from nuclear fusion of Hydrogen in stars. Nearly all helium on Earth is a result of radioactive decay. The decay product is primarily found in minerals of uranium and thorium, including cleveites, pitchblende, carnotite, monazite and beryl, because they emit alpha particles, which consist of helium nuclei (He 2+) to which electrons readily combine.
Report Abuse. Nearly all helium on Earth is a result of radioactive decay. The decay product is primarily found in minerals of uranium and thorium. In what is called radioactive emission of alpha particles the atom of, say uranium, spits out particles in the form of two protons and two neutrons--a helium nucleus. Charles M · 8 years ago.