Although no one knows exactly what causes rheumatoid arthritis (RA), experts believe that the disease may be the result of a combination of RA risk factors, including: 1  Genetics: Certain inherited genes may make you more likely to develop rheumatoid arthritis. 
Introduction. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic disease in which various joints in the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible loss of function. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system attacks joints and other tissues. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic disease in which various joints in the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible loss of fun
About RA. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that causes pain, swelling, and stiffness in the joints. In some people, it can also cause the joints to become damaged and deformed. 
Advertisement. The cause of RA is not yet fully understood, although doctors do know that an abnormal response of the immune system plays a leading role in the inflammation and joint damage that occurs. Other genes connected to RA include: STAT4, a gene that plays important roles in the regulation and activation of the immune system; TRAF1 and C5, two genes relevant to chronic inflammation; and PTPN22, a gene associated with both the development and progression of rheumatoid arthritis.
A sudden surge in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) inflammation, called a flare, may cause an increase in rheumatoid arthritis symptoms like joint pain, joint swelling, and fatigue. Causes of Rheumatoid Arthritis Flares. Although the exact cause of an RA flare can be due to a variety of culprits, here are some common factors to be aware of: 1  Stress. 2  People with RA frequently notice periods of high stress just before a flare.
Some forms of arthritis are caused by a reduction in the normal amount of this cartilage tissue. Osteoarthritis, one of the most common forms of arthritis, is caused by normal wear and tear throughout life; this natural breakdown of cartilage tissue can be exacerbated by an infection or injury to the joints. 
A. A. A. Unlike osteoarthritis, a condition caused by wear and tear on joints, rheumatoid arthritis happens when your immune system targets your joint linings. It’s a long-term condition that also affects other tissue, but the joints are usually the most severely affected. Doctors don’t know exactly what causes R
RA is an autoimmune disease in which the body’s immune system attacks synovial membranes. These membranes surround joints. As they are attacked, they thicken with inflammation. The process begins to destroy cartilage and bone inside the joint. 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that affects the joints. It causes pain, swelling, and stiffness. If one knee or hand has rheumatoid arthritis, usually the other does too. This disease often occurs in more than one joint and can affect any joint in the body. 