1. Decide how much you want to spend, and stick to it. Setting a budget for your kitchen remodel and staying within it sounds so obvious and simple, but it's harder than you think. The average cost of an upscale kitchen remodel is more than $80,000, but three factors should determine whether you want to spend that much. The first is how much you can afford to spend. 
When planning your kitchen redo, the first step is setting a budget. Every remodeling project is unique, and costs vary depending on the homeowner's budget, tastes, and priorities (a minor redo can be $5,000, while an upscale overhaul can easily top $75,000). In general, however, materials account for 80 percent of the budget, while labor costs represent 20 percent. 
The cost of remodeling a kitchen can vary widely depending on the size and scope of your project, with the national average coming in around $17,000 and most homeowners spending between $12,000 and $19,000. This guide can help estimate your costs and give you a starting point for various upgrades and services. The average cost of having new countertops installed is $3,401, but it is important to realize how much this can vary from project to project. The price will be dependent on the size of your kitchen, the simplicity of the layout and the materials used.
Prices also vary based on where you live; for example, the average minor kitchen remodel costs just $17,702 in the west south central region, which includes Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana. The average price jumps to $21,497 in the pricier Pacific region, which includes California, Alaska, Oregon and Washington. You can also expect a sleek undermount sink as well as fine finishes, such as a glass backsplash or custom lighting. If you live in low cost-of-living areas like the west south central region, the average price of this project drops to $106, 599, while those in the Pacific region will pay an average of $123,087.
So, whether you're building a new kitchen, renovating an existing kitchen or making a few updates, you're making a sound decision. The average cost for a kitchen renovation depends on many factors -- including the size of the kitchen, the quality of the materials and the complexity of the job. 
1 These are averages; actual costs may be higher or lower. 2  In contrast, DoItYourself.com estimates that the cost of a typical kitchen remodel can start around $5,000 with some do-it-yourself work included, and averages $15,000-$26,000. 1 The cost of remodeling a kitchen depends on the current layout, size and condition of the room, as well as the quality of replacement products chosen.
How much did your kitchen renovation cost, and where did you spend it? According to Today, the average cost for a kitchen remodel is $15,000 to $20,000 — without the appliances. Of course, costs are often controlled by things like region and city area; a New York City kitchen renovation is probably going to cost far more than one of comparable size in Kansas City.
The average project cost varies depending on the size of your kitchen, the quality of materials, and whether you change the layout of the room. On average, homeowners report that a kitchen remodel costs $19,799. A smaller project between $10,000 and $15,000 may include painting walls, refacing cabinets, upgrading the sink, and installing a tile backsplash. 1 Refaced cabinets ($4,500 - $9,100) can give your kitchen a new look for a fraction of the cost. 2  Refacing involves removing the old cabinet doors, door fronts and any hardware. 3  Next, select new elements and apply a wood veneer that matches the rest of the cabinet.
The average cost of a complete kitchen remodel will run anywhere from a low of $7,504 all the way to the maximum of $40,000. The average cost of having new countertops installed is $3,401, but it is important to realize how much this can vary from project to project. The price will be dependent on the size of your kitchen, the simplicity of the layout and the materials used.
1 In contrast, DoItYourself.com estimates that the cost of a typical kitchen remodel can start around $5,000 with some do-it-yourself work included, and averages $15,000-$26,000. 1 The cost of remodeling a kitchen depends on the current layout, size and condition of the room, as well as the quality of replacement products chosen.