The red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) is a bird of prey, one of three species colloquially known in the United States as the  chickenhawk , though it rarely preys on standard sized chickens. The red-tailed hawk displays sexual dimorphism in size, with females averaging about 25% heavier than males. The bird is sometimes referred to as the red-tail for short, when the meaning is clear in context. The subspecies Harlan's hawk (B. j. harlani) is sometimes considered a separate species (B. harlani).
This hawk soars very high in the sky, hunting for food. They have excellent eyesight which is much sharper than a human's. A Red-tailed Hawk can spot a mouse from a height of 100 feet. These hawks also hunt from perches, usually alongside a field. Most of their prey are small mammals, including: mice, voles, shrews, moles, squirrels, chipmunks, rats, rabbits, opossums, muskrats, cats, skunks, and bats.
Appearance The red-tailed hawk is one of Pennsylvania's most abundant and most recognized birds of prey. Adult red-tails are 19 to 25 inches in length and have wing spans of 46 to 58 inches. Females are slightly larger than males but both have very similar markings and colorings. There is a great deal of individual and regional variation in the shadings of the red-tail hawk's feathers. Vision The red-tail like other hawks uses its excellent vision to find and secure its prey. The red-tail's eyes are large and deep (a design that allows excellent distance vision) and are each as large as (or even slightly larger than) the bird's entire brain.
The red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) is the most common hawk in North America, and can be easily identified by its red tail feathers. Though it is large for a hawk, at only 2 feet long with a 4 foot wingspan, the red-tailed hawk is significantly smaller than eagles or ospreys. As the red-tailed hawk is a bird of prey, it possesses powerful talons and a sharp beak for hunting. Typical soaring and flying speed for a red-tailed hawk is 20-40 mph; however, in a dive when hunting, the birds can exceed 120 mph. The prey animals most commonly caught are mice, voles, squirrels and rabbits. However, red-tailed hawks are also capable of preying upon birds such as starlings and blackbirds mid-flight.
Red-tailed Hawks are most often seen soaring high above the ground, looking for food. They are very difficult to identify unless they come closer to the earth. This raptor grows up to 25 inches long and can weigh up to four pounds (heavy for a bird; remember, they have hollow bones!). Its wingspan can reach four feet. Red-tailed Hawks are large, stocky birds. A Red-tailed Hawk can spot a mouse from a height of 100 feet. These hawks also hunt from perches, usually alongside a field. Most of their prey are small mammals, including: mice, voles, shrews, moles, squirrels, chipmunks, rats, rabbits, opossums, muskrats, cats, skunks, and bats.
Red-tailed hawks average 48 to 65 centimeters in length. Their wingspan is approximately 4 feet, or 122 centimeters. There is sexual dimorphism in size: females are 25% larger than males. This kind of sexual dimorphism, where females are larger than males, is common in birds of prey. Red-tailed hawk plumage ranges from light auburn to deep brown.
Buteo jamaicensis. The red-tail is one of the the largest hawks, usually weighing between two and four pounds. As with most raptors, the female is nearly a third larger than the male and may have a wing span of 56 inches. The eyesight of a hawk is 8 times as powerful as a human's. Like all hawks, the Red-tailed Hawk's talons are its main weapons. The Red-tailed Hawk has hoarse and rasping 2- to3-second scream that is most commonly heard while soaring. 85 to 90 % of the Red-tailed Hawk's diet is composed of small rodents.
Red-tailed Hawk. The Red-tailed hawk is Fermilab's most common raptor. It is a year-round resident and summer breeder. Up to eight pairs have nested on the lab grounds in one year, and up to 30 birds have been recorded in a single winter day. Red-tailed hawks are birds of prey, or raptor. Like falcons and other hawks, they have strong feet, razor-sharp claws, or talons, and a hooked bill
Introduction. The Red Tailed Hawk is a bird of prey. It is often referred to as the Chicken Hawk. They range in size from 1.5 to 3 ½ pounds. They range in length from 18 to 26 inches. They feature a wingspan that ranges from 43 to 57 inches. The females are usually about 25% bigger and heavier than the males. 