For other uses of these terms, see Radiation poisoning (disambiguation) . Acute radiation syndrome (ARS), also known as radiation poisoning, radiation sickness or radiation toxicity, is a collection of health effects which present within 24 hours of exposure to high amounts of ionizing radiation. 
Problems with nausea and vomiting are related to the cause. Nausea and vomiting from motion sickness, seasickness, food poisoning, or cancer therapy can result in loss of water and electrolytes, which can lead to dehydration. Vomiting and nausea known as morning sickness may occur during pregnancy. 1  Nausea is an unpleasant, queasy feeling in the throat or stomach that may result in vomiting. 2  Vomiting is emptying the stomach as a result of strong gagging and retching that leads to throwing up. The following are common causes of nausea and vomiting: 1  Side effects of anesthesia used for surgery. 2  Stomach problems such as blockage (pyloric obstruction, a condition that causes forceful spitting up in infants). 3  Bleeding into the stomach from different causes. 4  Infection, irritation, or blockage of the intestines.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. The term vomiting describes the forceful expulsion of the contents of the stomach via the mouth or sometimes the nose, also known of as emesis. The causes of vomiting are as wide ranging as those for nausea and include anything from food poisoning or gastritis to head injuries and brain cancer. Regurgitation is a different condition from vomiting and the term regurgitation usually means expulsion of the undigested food from the food pipe or esophagus into the mouth, with none of the forceful expulsion or discomfort that is associated with nausea. The two conditions are different as are their underlying causes
Recurrent Vomiting. More often, chronic vomiting presents as recurrent episodes. A person may have periods of no vomiting that may last anywhere from a few hours, days or even weeks and then episodes of vomiting return. The term cyclic vomiting syndrome is often used synonymously with recurrent vomiting. However it is a separate condition, with no known cause although there may be various triggers. It is a coordinated process that starts from the small intestine or stomach. Since peristaltic waves pushes food from the mouth downwards into the esophagus and through the rest of the gut, the waves during vomiting “work” in the opposite direction. This is known as antiperistalsis.
herpes labialis. blister-like sores on the lips and adjacent facial tissue that are caused by the oral herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1); also known as cold sores or fever blisters. 
Cyclic vomiting syndrome may be referred to as a type of “abdominal migraine” and the terms are sometimes used interchangeably. An abdominal migraine is a migraine variant in which there are recurrent episodes of abdominal pain. Vomiting may or may not accompany an abdominal migraine. The hallmark of cyclic vomiting syndrome is recurrent episodes of severe nausea and vomiting. In children, these episodes usually last for several hours to a few days. In adults, episodes tend to occur less frequently, but usually last longer sometimes as long as 10 days.
Vomiting is different from regurgitation, although the two terms are often used interchangeably. Regurgitation is the return of undigested food back up the esophagus to the mouth, without the force and displeasure associated with vomiting. The causes of vomiting and regurgitation are generally different. The content of the vomitus (vomit) may be of medical interest. Fresh blood in the vomit is termed hematemesis (blood vomiting). Altered blood bears resemblance to coffee grounds (as the iron in the blood is oxidized) and, when this matter is identified, the term coffee-ground vomiting is used.
The feeling that one is about to vomit is called nausea, which often precedes, but does not always lead to, vomiting. Antiemetics are sometimes necessary to suppress nausea and vomiting. In severe cases, where dehydration develops, intravenous fluid may be required. The content of the vomitus (vomit) may be of medical interest. Fresh blood in the vomit is termed hematemesis (blood vomiting). Altered blood bears resemblance to coffee grounds (as the iron in the blood is oxidized) and, when this matter is identified, the term coffee-ground vomiting is used.
Rabies is also known as hydrophobia, which means the abnormal fear of water. See the related link for more information.   Hydrophobia is the medical term for rabies. This … is because the most common symptom of rabies is a fear of water. 1 The particularly bad cases often result in immobility, and there is a danger of you becoming trapped in a place you are not able t…. 2  Basic Education Requirements for Becoming a Medical Transcriptionist When exploring the occupations that are available within the medical field, there are many options to explore.