Recovery time varies but, generally, full recovery from rotator cuff surgery takes from six months to one year. The shoulder moves with the help of two main muscle groups. The top layer is the deltoid muscle. But if, as in your situation, the injury involves a large tear in the muscle, surgery can be a good option. In the past, rotator cuff surgery required a large 2- to 4-inch incision. But over the past 10 years, arthroscopic rotator cuff surgery has become more common and can often be used to repair even large tears.
Recovery from rotator cuff surgery can be a lengthy process. Surgery on the shoulder, even though it is arthroscopic, usually produces significant pain and stiffness — and involves a long recovery process. For most of you who are currently recovering from rotator cuff surgery, there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Many of you have heard from your friends that it will be a year before your shoulder feels “normal”. For some of you that will be true.
Recovery time for most patients is about 4 months. During this time many people will experience nighttime pain, stiffness, popping, catching, and feelings of tightness. All of that is normal! In fact, most people continue to experience symptoms for up to a year from the time of surgery. Surgery is arthroscopic, through small incisions, and generally causes minimal scarring. However, the recovery from a rotator cuff repair is difficult and takes many months! There are three phases to recovery from rotator cuff repair surgery: First, the healing phase of recovery. During this phase motion is limited and a sling must be worn
Stiffness during recovery from rotator cuff surgery. Stiffness is a big issue many patients will have to deal with after rotator cuff surgery. Stiffness is more common following repairs, and it is very common in diabetics. Some patients even have a genetic predisposition to developing stiffness. For most of you who are currently recovering from rotator cuff surgery, there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Many of you have heard from your friends that it will be a year before your shoulder feels “normal”. For some of you that will be true.
Confidence votes 224. It usually takes between four and six months to fully recover from rotator cuff surgery. The first couple weeks after the surgery, the arm has to remain immobilized; after this, physical therapy begins and becomes more intense over the weeks to follow. A torn rotator cuff takes at least 6-8 months to fully recover from. My father had this surgery in Feb 2008 and was not fully recovered until late Sept/early Oct. A torn bicep … tendon takes 4-5 months to get over. I tore mine in June 2008 and was fully recovered in November 2008
Full recovery from rotator cuff surgery can take anywhere from 6 to 12 months, depending on the patient. A study of rotator cuff surgery recovery published in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, issue 1, in 2008 showed continued strength gains 2 years after rotator cuff surgery. A torn rotator cuff takes at least 6-8 months to fully recover from. My father had this surgery in Feb 2008 and was not fully recovered until late Sept/early Oct. A torn bicep … tendon takes 4-5 months to get over. I tore mine in June 2008 and was fully recovered in November 2008
Recent scientific studies (Spring 2013) show around 3-5 months after surgery is when you are at greatest risk of re-injury or re-tearing your rotator cuff tear. This is probably the most critical period in the recovery from rotator cuff surgery. For most of you who are currently recovering from rotator cuff surgery, there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Many of you have heard from your friends that it will be a year before your shoulder feels “normal”. For some of you that will be true.
Recovery of comfort and function after rotator cuff surgery continues for many months after the surgery. Improvement in some activities may be evident as early as three months. With persistent effort patients make progress for as long as a year after surgery. 