The average latitude that tundra biome is located in the northern hemisphere is 65 degrees north. The average latitude in the southern hemisphere is 58.5 degrees south. 
FONTS. Arctic. Arctic tundra is located in the northern hemisphere, encircling the north pole and extending south to the coniferous forests of the taiga. The arctic is known for its cold, desert-like conditions. The growing season ranges from 50 to 60 days. There are about 1,700 kinds of plants in the arctic and subarctic, and these include: Arctic tundra is located in the northern hemisphere, encircling the north pole and extending south to the coniferous forests of the taiga. The arctic is known for its cold, desert-like condition
The Arctic tundra is a cold, vast, treeless area of low, swampy plains in the far north around the Arctic Ocean. It includes the northern lands of Europe (Lapland and Scandinavia), Asia (Siberia), and North America (Alaska and Canada), as well as most of Greenland. Tropical rainforests are found in Asia, Africa, South America, Central America, and on many of the Pacific islands. They are often found along the equator. Almost half of the world's tropical rainforests are in the South American country Brazil.
Arctic tundra is located in the northern hemisphere, encircling the north pole and extending south to the coniferous forests of the taiga. The arctic is known for its cold, desert-like conditions. The growing season ranges from 50 to 60 days. 
Taiga The taiga biome is found in the northern hemisphere close to the polar region. This cold biome (see climograph) stretches across the northern portions of North America, Europe, and Asia. Large population centers, such as Moscow and Toronto, can be found in the southern portion of this biome, but the northern portion is relatively unpopulated. Photo 2000-www.arttoday.com.
Most owls are found with empty stomachs and do not survive to return to the Arctic. Distribution: The tundra biome is restricted to the high latitudes of the northern hemisphere in a belt around the Arctic Ocean. Many of its species, both plant and animal, have circumpolar distribution areas. Many tundra species can be found at high elevations in the mountains of the northern hemisphere. The arctic-alpine lifezone of high elevations experiences a different climate–in terms of daylength and seasons–than does the true tundra of
A biome is a large ecosystem where plants, animals, insects, and people live in a certain type of climate. If you were in northern Alaska, you would be in a frosty biome called the Arctic tundra. If you jumped on a plane and flew to Brazil, you could be in a hot and humid biome called the tropical rainforest. The world contains many other biomes: grasslands, deserts, and mountains, to name a few. Tropical rainforests are found in Asia, Africa, South America, Central America, and on many of the Pacific islands. They are often found along the equator. Almost half of the world's tropical rainforests are in the South American country Brazil.
Map of World Biomes Images of Tundra Biomes Arctic tundra The arctic tundra occupies earth's Northern hemisphere, circling the North Pole all the way down to the evergreen forests of the boreal biomes. The arctic tundra sees little rainfall, like the cold deserts of russia. The soil of the arctic tundra is poor in nutrients, which accounts for the low amount of vegetation.