Click the New Group button then click the Rename button. Give your new custom group a name, such as Editing and click OK. In the Choose commands from drop-down menu, select Commands Not in the Ribbon. Select Edit Story in Microsoft Word and then click the Add button. Customize the Quick Access Toolbar. Click on the drop-down to the right of the QAT. Select More Commands. In the Publisher Options dialog, change the Choose commands from drop-down men to select Commands Not in the Ribbon. Scroll down and select Edit Story in Microsoft Word, click the Add button, and then click OK.
No, there is not Word count in Publisher, but you could always edit the text box in Word and use Word to count the words in the Pub text box. 
Get a word count in Publisher. Get a word count of stories in your publication by editing the story in Microsoft Word. To do this, you need to first customize the Quick Access Toolbar (QAT) to include the Edit Story in Microsoft Word button. If you don't see the word count in the status bar, right-click the status bar, then and click Word Count. 4. In Word, click the File tab and then click Close to return to your publication. Tip You can also customize the ribbon to include the Edit Story in Microsoft Word button.
Open the Microsoft Word Count pop up box in Review. . You should see a list of statistics. You have the option of checking the include footnotes and endnotes preference in the box, which counts all the words in your document. Uncheck this box if you only want to count the body text of your Microsoft Word document. 2. Type a word in the document. Look down at the word count and you'll notice that it counted the word you just wrote. It should now say Words: 1 of 1 or Words: 1 depending on your version of Microsoft Word.
Use Word to count the words in a story. In your publication, click the text box that contains the words you want to count. If the text box is connected to other text boxes, all the words in the connected text boxes are counted. Click the Edit Story in Microsoft Word button. In Word the word count will appear on the status bar at the bottom of the workspace. If you don't see the word count in the status bar, right-click the status bar, then and click Word Count. In Word, click the File tab and then click Close to return to your publication. Customize the Quick Access Toolbar. Click on the drop-down to the right of the QAT. Select More Commands. In the Publisher Options dialog, change the Choose commands from drop-down men to select Commands Not in the Ribbon. Scroll down and select Edit Story in Microsoft Word, click the Add button, and then click OK.
Answers. Best Answer: You can't. Publisher does not have word count. Here are two sites that you can paste your text into and get a count. http://www.javascriptkit.com/script/scri... http://www.wordcounttool.com/. 
Use Word to count the words in a story. 1. In your publication, click the text box that contains the words you want to count. If the text box is connected to other text boxes, all the words in the connected text boxes are counted. 2. Click the Edit Story in Microsoft Word button. If you don't see the word count in the status bar, right-click the status bar, then and click Word Count. 4. In Word, click the File tab and then click Close to return to your publication. Tip You can also customize the ribbon to include the Edit Story in Microsoft Word button.
For the math-impaired, that means you multiply the number of manuscript pages times 250 to get your word count. To make it even easier, here's a chart: 200 pages = 50,000 words 360 pages = 90,000. 240 pages = 60,000 400 pages = 100,000. 