This surname Haidacher is of German and Swiss German origin, mostly found in Austria in the province called Landeck. The name perhaps means heath running water from Haid, pe … rhaps also as Heid, meaning heath, and Ach meaning running water, perhaps derived from a place called Haidach. This surname Stroop could originate from the following origins below. 1. Dutch and German: from Middle Dutch, Middle Low German stropen, a nickname. See related links below f … or more information. Now, there is of English origin, but the English surname Stroop is very rare.
Best Answer: Hey Edwardo, German. Schwarzenegger Origin: German Spelling variations of this family name include: Schwartz, Swartz, Schwarz, Schwartze, Schwarte and others. First found in the Thuringian region, where this family name became a prominent contributor to the development of the district from ancient times. 
One of the first settlers in Virginia was Thomas Arnold, aged 30 yrs., who embarked from London on the ship Plaine Joan, in May 1635. The first recorded spelling of the family name anywhere is believed to be that of Puntius Arnaldi, which was dated 1196, in the rolls of Devonshire, England. In the year 1086 the Normans completed a survey of the country known as the Domesday Book, this being the first gazetter of its kind ever produced. Rogerus filius Ernaldi is recorded in Domesday Book for London, this being the first known recording of the name, although not as a surname.
Suggested Readings for the name Arnold. 1  Ancestry and Descendants of John Chambers Arnold and Mary Elizabeth (Shepherd) Arnold: 1789-1967 by Marjorie Organ Regan. 2  The Arnold Best, Cullison and Herron Families by Evelyn L. Strong. 1 William and Thomas Arnold of Nottingham, England, who settled in Higham Mass, and Watertown New York in May 1635. 2  William later moved to Providence, Rhode Island.
Arnold /ar-nold/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced AR-nold. It is of Old French and Old German origin, and the meaning of Arnold is eagle ruler. From the phrase arn wald. Brought to Britain with the Norman invasion, lost popularity after the 13th century, and briefly revived in the late 19th century. 
Arnold Name Meaning. English and German: from a very widely used personal name of Germanic origin, composed of the elements arn ‘eagle’ + wald ‘rule’. 
Meaning & History. From a Germanic name meaning eagle power, derived from the elements arn eagle and wald power. The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Earnweald. It died out as an English name after the Middle Ages, but it was revived in the 19th century. Saints bearing the name include an 8th-century musician in the court of Charlemagne and an 11th-century French bishop who is the patron saint of brewers. It was also borne by Arnold of Brescia, a 12th-century Augustinian monk who rebelled against the church and was eventually hanged.
This ancient and distinguished surname, recorded in over fifty spellings, is usually of Olde German and Anglo-Saxon origins. It derives from a baptismal compound personal name Ernault or Arnolt, of which the elements are arn, meaning an eagle, and wald, to rule. In the year 1086 the Normans completed a survey of the country known as the Domesday Book, this being the first gazetter of its kind ever produced. Rogerus filius Ernaldi is recorded in Domesday Book for London, this being the first known recording of the name, although not as a surname.
Arnold Settlers in Canada in the 19th Century. 1  George Arnold was a defendant in the Supreme Court in St. John's in 1810. 2  Pat Arnold from County Waterford, Ireland, was married in St. John's in 1811. 3  John Arnold from England and his brother William settled at Greenspond, Newfoundland in 1836, moved later to Traytown. 1 William and Thomas Arnold of Nottingham, England, who settled in Higham Mass, and Watertown New York in May 1635. 2  William later moved to Providence, Rhode Island.