1 Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 2  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 3  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 4  Use the File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files, just like other external devices. 1 Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 2  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 3  Use the Android File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files. 4  Disconnect the USB cable when you’re finished.
If you just want to quickly transfer files between your own two PCs, there’s no need to mess around with passwords and security. On the PC with the files you want to share (PC 1), open the Network and Sharing Center from the system tray, or from within Control Panel, and then go to Change Advanced Sharing Settings. Scroll to the bottom of the options and check Turn off password protected sharing. On PC 1 browse to the single file or folder containing the files you want to transfer. Right click and select Share With and Specific People. From the drop down menu, select Everyone and click Add. Then click the downward facing arrow next to Read and change it to Read/Write. Steps are highlighted below with figures.
How to Connect a Laptop to a PC Via Ethernet Cable. A crossover Ethernet cable can connect two stand-alone computers. Ablestock.com/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Transferring files from your laptop to a desktop PC is simple – usually. If you are visiting a customer's or vendor's site, the IT staff will usually help you connect to their network and transfer files to the desired destination. That is, if they have an IT staff and a network. 
If you’re having trouble transferring files, try the following steps: 1  Try a different USB cable. 2  Not all USB cables can transfer files. 3  Test the mini-USB port on your Nexus device by connecting your device to a different computer. 4  Test the USB port on your computer by connecting a camera or other device with USB. 1 Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 2  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 3  Use the Android File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files. 4  Disconnect the USB cable when you’re finished.
You can also transfer files from your device to a computer. 1  Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 2  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 3  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 1 Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 2  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 3  Use the Android File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files. 4  Disconnect the USB cable when you’re finished.
Moving files from a Mac to a PC can be accomplished by directly connecting the two computers using a shared Ethernet connection. After setting up a direct connection, the Mac user will be able to access files and folders on the PC's hard drive. Files can be copied directly from the PC to the Mac as well. Type the PC's network address into the Server Address box on the Mac. Click the Connect button to connect the Mac to the PC. Step 5. Follow the instructions to set up the PC work group. Then, choose a user name and a password, and finally, choose the directory on the PC to access.
Transferring Your Files from a Mac* to a PC or to a Mac. You can take the same approach as with manual file transfers above by connecting your external hard drive to your new computer with a USB cable and manually moving the files over. Sometimes your data is not all you will want to transfer from your old computer. You may also want to move over some of your favorite programs and applications. The only complication is that you may have to upgrade those programs and applications for compatibility with your new computer.
1 Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 2  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 3  Use the File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files, just like other external devices. 4  Eject your device from Windows, then unplug the USB cable. 1 Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 2  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 3  Use the Android File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files. 4  Disconnect the USB cable when you’re finished.
Answer: The best way to connect your laptop to your desktop is to use the computers' built-in networking capabilities. This can be done by connecting the computers via an Ethernet or wireless network connection. An Ethernet connection requires that each computer has an Ethernet port, which looks like a wide phone jack. 
Step 1. Plug a standard Ethernet cable into the Mac's Ethernet port. Connect the other end of the Ethernet cable to the PC's Ethernet port. Step 2. Turn on both computers and allow them to fully boot up. Log in to the Mac and select the Go menu, and then select the Connect to Server option. Type the PC's network address into the Server Address box on the Mac. Click the Connect button to connect the Mac to the PC. Step 5. Follow the instructions to set up the PC work group. Then, choose a user name and a password, and finally, choose the directory on the PC to access.