Lumen: A luminous term referring to the channel within a tube such as a blood vessel or to the cavity within a hollow organ such as the intestine. Lumen is a luminous term because it is Latin for light, including the light that comes through a window. 
In biology, a lumen (from Latin lūmen, meaning an opening; plural lumina) is the inside space of a tubular structure, such as an artery or intestine. By extension, the term lumen is also used to describe the inside space of a cellular component or structure, such as the endoplasmic reticulum. 
Explanation [edit]. If a light source emits one candela of luminous intensity uniformly across a solid angle of one steradian, the total luminous flux emitted into that angle is one lumen (1 cd ·1 sr = 1 lm). Alternatively, an isotropic one-candela light-source emits a total luminous flux of exactly 4π lumens
Think of lumens as a new way of knowing how bright a lamp is. Lumens = Light Output. In simple terms, Lumens (denoted by lm) are a measure of the total amount of visible light (to the human eye) from a lamp or light source. The higher the lumen rating the “brighter” the lamp will appear.
Part of the IT standards and organizations glossary: The lumen (symbolized lm) is the International Unit of luminous flux. It is defined in terms of candela steradian s (cd multiplied by sr). One lumen is the amount of light emitted in a solid angle of 1 sr, from a source that radiates to an equal extent in all directions, and whose intensity is 1 cd. 
One lumen, in this case, is a measure of the amount of luminous flux emitted into an area by 1/60 of a single square centimeter of platinum at its melting point into a certain angle. This measurement is often used along with wattage to determine the luminous efficiency of a light-emitting body. 
Definition of LUMEN. 1. 2. : the bore of a tube (as of a hollow needle or catheter). 3. : a unit of luminous flux equal to the light emitted in a unit solid angle by a uniform point source of one candle intensity. — lu·mi·nal also lu·men·al \-mə-nəl\ adjective. See lumen defined for kids. 
For other uses, see Lumen (disambiguation) . The lumen (symbol: lm) is the SI derived unit of luminous flux, a measure of the total amount of visible light emitted by a source. If a light source emits one candela of luminous intensity uniformly across a solid angle of one steradian, the total luminous flux emitted into that angle is one lumen (1 cd ·1 sr = 1 lm).
The difference between the units lumen and lux is that the lux takes into account the area over which the luminous flux is spread. A flux of 1000 lumens, concentrated into an area of one square metre, lights up that square metre with an illuminance of 1000 lux. If a light source emits one candela of luminous intensity uniformly across a solid angle of one steradian, the total luminous flux emitted into that angle is one lumen (1 cd ·1 sr = 1 lm).
What is it?: Lumen is a unit of light measurement otherwise known as luminous flux. We use lumens to compare the total amount of light output from a light emitter. 