Method: Preheat the oven to 400째F. Put 1 tablespoon of the oil, 1/2 tablespoon of the rosemary, thyme, garlic, 1 1/2 teaspoons of the salt and 1/2 teaspoon of the pepper into a small bowl and mix well. Rub mixture all over beef; set aside.
The best way to cook beef tenderloin is a two-step process: sear, then roast. That way, the tenderloin gets a nice crusty brown exterior without overcooking inside. Use enough vegetable oil to just cover the skillet, and heat it over medium-high heat. Pat the tenderloins dry, and then season with salt.
Step 2: Roast or grill the tenderloin. Roast: Browning the tenderloin first is optional, but it does caramelize the outside and lock in the juices. In a large skillet heat olive oil over medium-high heat. Quickly brown the tenderloin on all sides in the hot oil.
1 Return beef to the skillet. 2  Roast in the preheated oven until meat is medium rare, about 45 minutes. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 130 degrees F (54 degrees C). 4  Transfer meat to a plate and loosely tent with foil.
1 Roast in the preheated oven until meat is medium rare, about 45 minutes. 2  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 130 degrees F (54 degrees C). 3  Transfer meat to a plate and loosely tent with foil. 4  Set skillet over high heat and bring pan juices to a boil.
Roast the tenderloin until an instant-read meat thermometer indicates an internal temperature of 135 degrees for medium rare or 145 degrees for medium. A two to three pound tenderloin will take 30 to 40 minutes to reach medium rare and 45 to 50 minutes to reach medium.
Preheat the oven to 475 degrees F. Place the tenderloin on a roasting rack. Sprinkle generously with kosher salt and sugar, which will deepen the savory flavors. Press the crushed peppercorns all over the surface of the meat. Insert a meat thermometer and place in the oven until the beef registers 120 to 125 degrees F for medium-rare/rare.
Put the tenderloins on a rack in a roasting pan, and roast them in a 450째F oven. After about 15 minutes, check the internal temperature with a probe thermometer. For a tenderloin that's medium-rare, look for an internal temperature of 120째F. For medium, the internal temperature should be 125째F.