There is a marked distinction in deer characteristics between whitetails found in different parts of the continent. The Northern whitetails of the Midwest and Canada are large bodied deer with traditionally bigger antlers and a rough gray color. Another defining deer characteristic among whitetails is the annual growth and shedding of male antlers. Healthy whitetail antlers are branched, and the length and development of the antlers depends on various factors like genetics, season, age and nutrition.
Even now 'deer' include quite a diverse group of species. Some general characters are: - They are all ruminants, so they have four stomachs and chew the cud. - All are mammals, and members of the Cervidae family (with a few exceptions such as the muntjac and water deer). - Male deer of all species grow antlers which are shed and replaced each year, with the exception of the Chinese water deer which only have tusks. - A male is usually called a 'buck', and a females a 'doe'. For larger species, often the male is a 'stag' and the female a 'hind'. The young are usually called calves or fawns. - Nearly all deer have lithe but compact bodies and powerful legs.
Physical characteristics: The Siberian musk deer weighs 18 to 36 pounds (8 to 16 kilograms) and measures 24 to 39 inches (60 to 100 centimeters). Coat is various shades of brown, and there are fuzzy whitish yellow spots on the neck and chest, with rows of brighter spots on both sides of the body. Physical characteristics: The smallest deer in the world weighs 20 to 33 pounds (9 to 15 kilograms) and stands 14 to 18 inches (35 to 45 centimeters) high at the shoulder. Its thick coat is a reddish brown, and the lips and insides of ears are tinged with orange. Males have short spiked antlers
The Characteristics of Doe or Female Deer. Does share a close bond with their young. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. While male deer are called bucks, the females are known as does, and they are distinct both physically and behaviorally. Does live differently than males do, and they take a more hands-on approach to parenting their young, known as fawns. Without the care and attention of a doe, a fawn may not survive, demonstrating how important the nurturing characteristics of this animal are.
In white-tailed deer, for example, the doe may be only negligibly smaller than the buck -- does of this species can weigh as much as 140 pounds, while bucks can weigh as little as 150 pounds. Does live differently than males do, and they take a more hands-on approach to parenting their young, known as fawns. Without the care and attention of a doe, a fawn may not survive, demonstrating how important the nurturing characteristics of this animal are.
Many of the physical characteristics of black-tailed deer are similar to those of the larger mule deer. The tail is broader and the backside of the tail is covered with dark brown hair that grades to black near the tip. When alarmed or fleeing from danger, the tail may be raised, displaying the broad, white underside. During summer, mule deer are tan to light brown; during winter, they are a salt-and-pepper gray. They have large, dark-edged ears, from whence they derive their name. The 7 to 8 inch tail of a mule deer is white, except for a black tip. Mule deer are the largest deer in Washington.
White-tailed deer are herbivores, leisurely grazing on most available plant foods. Their stomachs allow them to digest a varied diet, including leaves, twigs, fruits and nuts, grass, corn, alfalfa, and even lichens and other fungi. Male deer, called bucks, are easily recognizable in the summer and fall by their prominent set of antlers, which are grown annually and fall off in the winter. Only the bucks grow antlers, which bear a number of tines, or sharp points.
White-tailed” refers to the white underside of the deer’s tail, which it displays and wags when it senses danger. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: White-tailed deer, the smallest members of the North American deer family, are found from southern Canada to South America. Male deer, called bucks, are easily recognizable in the summer and fall by their prominent set of antlers, which are grown annually and fall off in the winter. Only the bucks grow antlers, which bear a number of tines, or sharp points.
Deer (singular and plural) are the ruminant mammals forming the family Cervidae. Species in the family include the white-tailed deer, mule deer (such as the black-tailed deer), elk, moose, red deer, reindeer (caribou), fallow deer, roe deer, pudu pudú and. chital For most types of deer in modern English usage, the male is called a buck and the female is termed a doe, but the terms vary with dialect, and especially according to the size of the species. For many larger deer, the male is termed a stag, while for other larger deer the same words are used as for cattle: bull and cow.