It is produced on a large scale and is primarily used in the production of polymers but also sees use in food processing as the E-number E1520. The compound is sometimes called α-propylene glycol to distinguish it from the isomer propane-1,3-diol (β-propylene glycol). Propylene glycol is an approved food additive for dog food under the category of animal feed and is generally recognized as safe for dogs, with an LD50 of 9 mL/kg. The LD 50 is higher for most laboratory animals (20 mL/kg). However, it is prohibited for use in food for cats due to links to Heinz body anemia.
Next Article: Try This (Temporary) New Look ». Propylene glycol is an ingredient found in many personal-care products, including shampoos, hair conditioners, and leave-in styling products. It is widely used because of its relatively low cost and versatile nature. 1 It can be used as an emulsifier or co-surfactant. 2  It is used as a solvent for pigments in cosmetics. 3  It can be used as a preservative due to its anti-fungal and anti-microbial properties. 4  It is frequently used in deodorants and antiperspirants.
Propylene glycol is a synthetic liquid substance that absorbs water. Propylene glycol is also used to make polyester compounds, and as a base for deicing solutions. Propylene glycol is used by the chemical, food, and pharmaceutical industries as an antifreeze when leakage might lead to contact with food. 
Propylene glycol is a common ingredient found in many products we use in our daily life. Propylene glycol and other substances such as baking soda are often used in common foods, it also have a variety of uses outside of food, such as serving as an ingredient in many pharmaceutical, cosmetic, and personal care products. Propylene glycol is added as a food ingredient to common products, such as frostings, candies, and even baked goods. It is used as a component in natural flavorings to help distribute the flavoring evenly throughout the product.
Propylene glycol, also called propane-1,2-diol, is an organic compound with the chemical formula C 3 H 8 O 2. It is a viscous colourless liquid which is nearly odourless but possesses a faintly sweet taste. Propylene glycol is an approved food additive for dog food under the category of animal feed and is generally recognized as safe for dogs, with an LD50 of 9 mL/kg. The LD 50 is higher for most laboratory animals (20 mL/kg). However, it is prohibited for use in food for cats due to links to Heinz body anemia.
Propylene glycol (also known as 1,2 propanediol) is a relatively small molecule with two alcohol (hydroxyl) groups (-OH). It is a colorless and odorless liquid and is completely water-soluble. PG is a synthetic product obtained from the hydration of propylene oxide, which is derived from petroleum products. 1 It can be used as an emulsifier or co-surfactant. 2  It is used as a solvent for pigments in cosmetics. 3  It can be used as a preservative due to its anti-fungal and anti-microbial properties. 4  It is frequently used in deodorants and antiperspirants.
Taste, fun and convenience. Propylene glycol USP/EP (pharmaceutical grade) is the only grade appropriate for application in food due to its handling practices. Propylene glycol USP/EP is the ideal carrier of a large variety of flavours that give most of today's food and beverage their distinctive taste. Propylene glycol USP/EP is approved for use as a food additive under E-number E 1520 (with strict maximum limit of 1 g/kg in human foodstuffs). Direct food contact uses include: 1  solvent and carrier for flavour and colour in food and beverage manufacturing processes, for drinks, biscuits, cakes, sweets.
Propylene glycol is a clear, colorless and hygroscopic liquid. Propylene glycol contains an asymmetrical carbon atom, so it exists in two enantiomers. The commercial product is a racemic mixture. Propylene glycol is an approved food additive for dog food under the category of animal feed and is generally recognized as safe for dogs, with an LD50 of 9 mL/kg. The LD 50 is higher for most laboratory animals (20 mL/kg). However, it is prohibited for use in food for cats due to links to Heinz body anemia.
Propylene Glycol is a synthetic chemical preservative and flavour enhancer linked to kidney damage. It is also used as a less-toxic version of the sweet-tasting chemical found in anti-freeze and brake fluid solvents. Propylene Glycol is a common additive to soft cat and dog treats as well as soft or semi-moist dog foods. You will find Propylene Glycol on the ingredient panel of many grocery or department store brand pet foods and treats.