The Himalayas span five countries: India, Nepal, Bhutan, China (Tibet), and Pakistan, with the first three countries having sovereignty over most of the range. The Himalayas have the third largest deposit of ice and snow in the world, after Antarctica and the Arctic. The Himalayan range encompasses about 15,000 glaciers, which store about 12,000 km 3 (3,000 cubic miles) of fresh water.
The Himalayas are bordered on the north by the Tibetan Plateau, on the south by the Indo-Gangetic Plain, on the northwest by the Karakoram and Hindu Kush ranges, and on the east by the Indian states of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. The Himalayas have the third largest deposit of ice and snow in the world, after Antarctica and the Arctic. The Himalayan range encompasses about 15,000 glaciers, which store about 12,000 km 3 (3,000 cubic miles) of fresh water.
Importance of Himalayas. The importance of Himalayas in India lies in the fact that the Himalayan Mountain have proved to be the source of everything: 1  it has given protection, 2  maintained the continuity of her civilization, 3  increased the fertility of the soil, The Himalayas has played the important role of a foster mother for the Indians. The Himalayan mountain ranges stand like a mighty wall and protect India from foreign invasion. The Himalayas act as a mighty climatic division. The moisture laden south-west monsoon winds are obstructed by the
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Himalayas are so important because they are almost like a barrier for India. the protect India from the rainfalls and provide the country witha lot of useful sources. The Himalayas are important to the Hindus because they are protecting the country in many ways, e.g:protecting from the floods. The mountains in the range include many of the highest in the world. The Himalaya … s were pushed up by the collision between India and the Asian continental plate, and some are still slowly and steadily increasing in height. On the northern side of the Himalayas is the Tibetan Plateau. (see related link).
Lifted by the collision of the Indian tectonic plate with the Eurasian Plate, the Himalayan range runs northwest to southeast in a 2,400 kilometres (1,500 mi) long arc. The range varies in width from 400 kilometres (250 mi) in the west to 150 kilometres (93 mi) in the east. The Himalayas have the third largest deposit of ice and snow in the world, after Antarctica and the Arctic. The Himalayan range encompasses about 15,000 glaciers, which store about 12,000 km 3 (3,000 cubic miles) of fresh water.
The Himalayas is the highest mountain range in the world, and has 9 out of 10 of the world’s highest peaks, including Mount Everest. These mountains, referred to as the Third Pole, are the source of some of Asia’s major rivers and also help to regulate our planet’s climate. 
The Mountain range in Asia referred to as the Himalayas crosses 6 countries: Bhutan, China, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Kashmir and Afghanistan.   located in south centeral As … ia The Himalayas pass through India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan and Nepal and Burma. The mountains in the range include many of the highest in the world. The Himalaya … s were pushed up by the collision between India and the Asian continental plate, and some are still slowly and steadily increasing in height. On the northern side of the Himalayas is the Tibetan Plateau. (see related link).
Share to: One of the ways that the Himalayan Mountains help India is that for centuries they have acted as a effective natural barrier against any invading armies for Asia. The Himalaya … ns are extremely difficult to cross, even in the summer when the snow has melted. 
Glaciers: The Himalayas are the third largest deposit of ice and snow in the world, after Antarctica and the Arctic. There are approximately 15,000 glaciers located throughout the range. At 48 miles (72 km) in length, the Himalayan Siachen glacier is the largest glacier outside the poles. 