My vote is for Organics To You C Syrup (pronounced 'key', a Celtic word for 'earth'). They are 100% organic and the best syrups I've ever had. The vanilla, caramel, hazelnut, raspberry are definitely winners. best vanilla syrup for coffee. Click on a term to search for related topics. All times are GMT -6. The time now is 06:19 PM. Powered by vBulletin®. Copyright © 2015 vBulletin Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
The product line is so vast that they have not just a couple vanilla syrups, but ten and the cinnamon vanilla is a great one. For those who enjoy dessert-influenced syrups, the cheesecake, red velvet, and shortbread syrups are fun to play with. Monin Premium Syrups. Monin is a popular brand of syrups and a favorite for mixed drinks. Again, the line is immense, available all over, and always expanding. Some of their newest flavors as of 2013 are very fun, including banana nut bread, cinnamon bun, and hickory smoke.
Bring all new flavors to your specialty drink menu with this Torani vanilla flavoring syrup! This tempting flavor will complement your beverages without overpowering them or being too sweet, while the user-friendly bottle will be convenient for your busy baristas to use. 
In a medium saucepan over medium high heat, gently stir together the water and sugars. Cook until mixture becomes thick and syrupy (approximately 10-15 minutes). Allow to cool and stir in vanilla extract. Fill jar with cooled mixture. Srew on lid and slide in pump dispenser. Serve with your favorite coffee drink! 
This is a copycat of the Torani-style flavored syrup. You can also use almond extract, hazelnut, or any other flavor. Easy and inexpensive, compared to coffee-shop prices! Makes a nice holiday or hostess gift. 
Basically, you use 1/2 the amount of Amoretti syrup to get the same result. If that is the case, using Amoretti is justified. I know from personal experience that 2 pumps (0.5oz) of Amoretti vanilla syrup in a 12oz latte is more than enough flavor. Monin's advertised amount for the same latte is 3 pumps. However, in practice baristas may use more that 3 pumps to get the best flavor from Monin or other syrups. Just curious on how much syrup other use in their 12oz. lattes. 
Buy Starbucks Syrups and Flavor Kits. Try pumpkin spice, white chocolate, caramel, hazelnut and vanilla Starbucks coffee syrups, flavored coffee drizzle sauces, and coffee flavor kits. Starbucks syrups and sauces give just the right amount of sweetness to the coffee and latte drinks you brew at home. Add a shot of rich-tasting, sugar free vanilla or hazelnut to your coffee or latte – whether at home or the office-with Starbucks sugar free syrups. Home Gifts & More Syrups & Sauces.
Directions. 1  In medium saucepan over medium high heat, bring water and sugar to a boil. 2  Cook until mixture thickens slightly, about three minutes. 3  Remove from heat, stir in vanilla and let cool to room temperature. 4  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to two weeks. I needed a vanilla syrup for Starbucks Frappuccino, vanilla flavor. My husband is nuts for the stuff but it's expensive to buy by the bottle-this worked perfectly! I did use 1 cup white sugar and 1 cup brown sugar to give it a hint of caramel-perfection-he's a happy camper, and this is beyond easy to make