Tableau (plural: tableaux (UK) or tableaus (US); from the French diminutive of table, sometimes meaning picture) may mean: 1  Tableau, as used in short and long division. 1 A cryptographic tableau used in manual cipher systems. 2  Tableau (linguistics), a method of evaluating ranked constraints over a set c tableau or truth tree, a proof procedure for various logics which builds a tree to search for counterexamples of a formula or argument.
The company's 2013 revenue reached $232.44 million, an 82% growth over 2012's $128 million. In 2010, Tableau reported revenue of $34.2 million. That figure grew to $62.4 million in 2011 and $127.7 million in 2012. Profit during the same periods came to $2.7 million, $3.4 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. The company was founded in Mountain View, California in January, 2003 by Chris Stolte, Christian Chabot and Pat Hanrahan. Their initial aim was to commercialize research conducted at Stanford University’s Department of Computer Science between 1999 and 2002.
1 Tableau (linguistics), a method of evaluating ranked constraints over a set c tableau or truth tree, a proof procedure for various logics which builds a tree to search for counterexamples of a formula or argument. 1 A cryptographic tableau used in manual cipher systems. 2  Tableau (linguistics), a method of evaluating ranked constraints over a set c tableau or truth tree, a proof procedure for various logics which builds a tree to search for counterexamples of a formula or argument.
1 Tableau, as used in short and long division. 2  A cryptographic tableau used in manual cipher systems. 3  Tableau (linguistics), a method of evaluating ranked constraints over a set c tableau or truth tree, a proof procedure for various logics which builds a tree to search for counterexamples of a formula or argument. 1 A cryptographic tableau used in manual cipher systems. 2  Tableau (linguistics), a method of evaluating ranked constraints over a set c tableau or truth tree, a proof procedure for various logics which builds a tree to search for counterexamples of a formula or argument.
History [edit]. The company was founded in Mountain View, California in January, 2003 by Chris Stolte, Christian Chabot and Pat Hanrahan. Their initial aim was to commercialize research conducted at Stanford University’s Department of Computer Science between 1999 and 2002.
Tableau provides a variety of training options to help you get the most out of your data. Quickly improve your Tableau performance and skills through traditional classroom learning, live-online training and self-paced on-demand courses. Our training programs help you master our software and learn how to put it to work for you and your organization.
Tweet. : a view or sight that looks like a picture. : a scene that typically shows an event in history or literature and that is created on a stage by a group of people who are dressed in costumes and who do not speak or move. plural tab·leaux \-ˌblōz, -ˈblōz\ also tableaus. [short for tableau vivant (from French, literally, living picture)] : a depiction of a scene usually presented on a stage by silent and motionless costumed participants. See tableau defined for English-language learners.
For example, gathering a great deal of data was easy, but helping people make great decisions based on that data was much harder. After choosing Tableau, Wells Fargo was able to save time spent reshaping data, enable more in-depth analysis, and better understand the customer journey. From optimizing staffing with near-real-time insight into ticket sales to gauging just how all those peanuts and Cracker Jacks impact the bottom line—the Texas Rangers are using Tableau to be as nimble and smart in the back-office as their players are on the field.