Iceland is a constitutional republic with a multi-party system. The head of state is the President. Executive power is exercised by the Government. Iceland is arguably the world's oldest parliamentary democracy, with the Parliament, the Althingi, established in 930. Legislative power is vested in both the Parliament and the President. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Iceland's government is a parliamentary republic, with a president  elected once every four years. The prime minister, together with  the cabinet, is the head of the executi … ve government. Iceland's economy is what is known as a mixed economy. The country  engages in high levels of free trade, and features government  intervention in certain aspects of the eco … nomy. In 2012, Iceland's  GDP was $14.6 billion. 2 people found this useful.
Constitutional and Republic with Small Legislature. Iceland's government is a Constitutional and Republic with 63 members in its legislature. Executive elections are every 4 years, and the last one was in 2008. The percent of seats in Icelandic parliament held by women is 2.3 times higher than the global average, 17% 
Government. Iceland is governed under the constitution of 1944 as amended. The president, who is the head of state, a largely ceremonial post, is popularly elected to a four-year term; there are no term limits. The head of government is the prime minister. The legislature is the unicameral Althing, whose 63 members are popularly elected to four-year terms. Administratively, Iceland is divided into eight regions.
Overview. Iceland is a Constitutional and Republic whose current leader is Chief Executive Olafur Grimsson. The chief executive in Iceland typically has a term length of 4 years. Iceland's Legislature has 63 seats, and the last legislative elections were in 2009. Type of Government
The politics of Iceland take place within the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic. The President of Iceland is the head of state, while the Prime Minister of Iceland is the head of government in a multi-party system. It is arguably the world's oldest parliamentary democracy. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament, the Althing
1 Iceland: Government-Government Iceland is governed under the constitution of 1944 as amended. The president, who is the head of state, a largely ceremonial post, is popularly elected to a four-year term; there are no term limits. The head of government is the prime minister. The legislature is the unicameral Althing, whose 63 members are popularly elected to four-year terms. Administratively, Iceland is divided into eight regions.