edge gradient in radiology, the penumbra or partial shadow on a radiograph caused by the three-dimensional shape of an object. electrochemical gradient the difference in ion concentration and electrical potential from one point to another, so that ions tend to move passively along it. intestinal electrochemical gradient. electrical potential differences and ion concentration differences across the external membrane of the intestinal mucosa arising from the active transport of most electrolytes and some nonelectrolytes across the membrane.
Electrochemical gradient. In cellular biology, an electrochemical gradient refers to the electrical and chemical properties across a membrane. These are often due to ion gradients, particularly proton gradients, and can represent a type of potential energy available for work in a cell. In biological processes the direction an ion will move by diffusion or active transport across membrane is determined by the electrochemical gradient. In mitochondria and chloroplasts, proton gradients are used to generate a chemiosmotic potential that is also known as a proton motive force.
An electrochemical gradient has two components. First, the electrical component is caused by a charge difference across the lipid membrane. Second, a chemical component is caused by a differential concentration of ions across the membrane. In biological processes, the direction an ion moves by diffusion or active transport across a membrane is determined by the electrochemical gradient. In mitochondria and chloroplasts, proton gradients are used to generate a chemiosmotic potential that is also known as a proton motive force.
(a) An electrochemical gradient is created by pumping ions into a space surrounded by a membrane that is impermeable to ions. The gradient has two components: an electrical component caused by a difference in charge across the membrane and a chemical component caused by a difference in ion concentration. (b) An electrochemical gradient is created during electron transport as the enzyme complexes move protons from NADH and FADH2 into the intermembrane space. The intermembrane space becomes an H+ reservoir because the membrane is almost impermeable to protons.
Electrochemical Gradient. Separation of oppositely charged ions by a membrane particularly as generated by actively transporting one or more such ions. Such gradients are generated via the action of sodium-potassium pumps, proton pumps, and, also pumping protons, electron transport chains
For example, if one side of the membrane is negative, then the electrochemical gradient would 'pull' positive ions to the negative side, as the positive ions are attracted to the negative environment. This will also work to depolarise the environment a bit. The concentration gradient is the simpler one. The electrochemical gradient at the same time, wants the K+ ions to go back into the axon, as the inside is becoming negative with the loss of positive ions. So K+ goes back in. These two gradients are basically forces, which reach an equilibrium at -70mV, with the inside negative and the outside positive.
An electrochemical gradient is a gradient of electrochemical potential, usually for an ion that can move across a membrane. In biological processes, the direction an ion moves by diffusion or active transport across a membrane is determined by the electrochemical gradient. In mitochondria and chloroplasts, proton gradients are used to generate a chemiosmotic potential that is also known as a proton motive force.
The gradient consists of two parts, the electrical potential and a difference in the chemical concentration across a membrane. The difference of electrochemical potentials can be interpreted as a type of potential energy available for work in a cell. In biological processes, the direction an ion moves by diffusion or active transport across a membrane is determined by the electrochemical gradient. In mitochondria and chloroplasts, proton gradients are used to generate a chemiosmotic potential that is also known as a proton motive force.
In cellular biology, an electrochemical gradient refers to the electrical and chemical properties across a membrane. These are often due to ion gradients, particularly proton gradients, and can represent a type of potential energy available for work in a cell. An electrochemical gradient has two components. First, the electrical component is caused by a charge difference across the lipid membrane. Second, a chemical component is caused by a differential concentration of ions across the membrane.