Finger pain can be caused by disease or injury affecting any of the structures in the finger, including the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, blood vessels, or connective tissues. Joint pain is a feature of joint inflammation (arthritis) that may occur in the joints of the finger bones. This can sometimes be accompanied by redness, swelling, or warmth of the joints. Both osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) commonly affect joints of the fingers. Trauma or injury to the finger, such as bruises, dislocations, and fractures of bone are all common causes of finger pain. Tumors of the structures in the finger are a very rare cause of finger pain. Certain conditions such as diabetes can cause damage to the nerves, resulting in pain, numbness, or tingling of the arms and legs.
This is also known as de Quervain's tendinosis. It causes pain on the thumb side of the wrist. The pain may develop gradually or suddenly. It can travel the length of the thumb and up the forearm. If you have de Quervain's tendinitis, movements that can be painful include: 1  Making a fist. 2  Grasping or holding objects. 3  Turning the wrist. Carpal tunnel syndrome. This is one of the most common nerve disorders. It affects up to 3% of the American population. Carpal tunnel syndrome causes pain in the: 1  Palm and some fingers of the hand. 2  Wrist.
Thumb spasm is the uncontrolled continuous contraction of muscles in the thumb. It is different from a thumb twitch, which is often neglected as it subsides in a short time. When the nerves connected to the muscles in the thumb get irritated, it causes a spasm. There are various causes that result in the condition. 
Thumb pain can result from damage or injury to any of the structures in your thumb, including bones, joints, tendons, nerves, muscles, blood vessels, connective tissue, skin or fingernails. Disorders of the spine, such as infection, fracture, tumor, or disc disease, often produce symptoms in the arms and hands. Infections of the skin around the nails (paronychia), skin and underlying tissue (cellulitis), or bone (osteomyelitis) are further causes of thumb pain.
Injury or trauma to the thumb such as a fracture or sprain can all lead to pain and limited function. A sprain of the ligaments surrounding the joint is referred to as a 'jammed' thumb. In extreme circumstances, the disruption to these ligaments can ultimately lead to the instability of the joint. Another potential cause of the thumb joint pain is the overuse of the thumb. If you have an excessive wear of the thumb joint over a long period of time, it can lead to a break down of your joint cartilage leading to inflammation and potentially causing osteoarthritis of this joint. You could be suffering from thumb joint pain, but you still do not know what exactly brings about this painful condition to your body; this article will show you five of the main causes of this condition. Thumb joint pain will make your every day activity difficult.
1 Carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by pressure on a nerve (median nerve) in the wrist. 2  The symptoms include tingling, numbness, weakness, or pain of the fingers and hand. 3  Tendon pain is actually a symptom of tendinosis, a series of very small tears (microtears) in the tissue in or around the tendon. Finger, hand, or wrist problems may be caused by an injury. If you think an injury caused your problem, see the topic Finger, Hand, and Wrist Injuries. But there are many other causes of finger, hand, or wrist problems. 1  Carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by pressure on a nerve (median nerve) in the wrist. 2  The symptoms include tingling, numbness, weakness, or pain of the fingers and hand
Cramps in your hand can arise from a number of different causes. Hand cramps develop as a result of conditions affecting muscles and nerves in your hand. Trauma or injury to a nerve in your hand can also cause hand cramps. Even breathing too fast (hyperventilation) can result in hand cramps, as carbon dioxide levels in the blood become too low. Everyday, simple reasons, such as fatigue from overuse, can lead to temporary, acute cramps in the
The most common causes of hand or finger cramps or spasms are muscle spasm, diabetes, and carpal tunnel syndrome. Other possible causes, such as multiple sclerosis, are more rare. Within all the people who go to their doctor with hand or finger cramps or spasms, 47% report having hand or finger pain, 34% report having foot or toe cramps or spasms, and 34% report having leg cramps or spasms. 1  Hand or finger pain 47. 2  Foot or toe cramps or spasms strong predictor 34. 3  Headache 34.