The Second New Deal. The Second New Deal —the legislation that Roosevelt and Congress passed between 1935 and 1938 —was strikingly different from the First New Deal in certain ways. Perhaps most important, the Second New Deal legislation relied more heavily on the Keynesian style of deficit spending than the First New Deal did. 
The First New Deal, 1933, was an attempt to save the capitalistic system and the agencies and laws created had something for just about every sector of society. The Second New … Deal, 1935-36, dealt with some of the class conflict in society at that time. The Second New Deal was similar to the First New Deal only in the amount of legislation passed by Congress or bills presented to the Congress between 1935 and 1938.
Extracts from this document... Introduction. Radu Homorozan Differences between 1st and 2nd New Deal In analyzing the New Deal and its development, historians have often distinguished between a First New Deal of 1933 and a Second New Deal of 1935.
Historians distinguish between the First New Deal of 1933, which had something for almost every group, and the Second New Deal (1935–36), which introduced class conflict, especially between business and labor unions. Answers. Best Answer: The New Deal was the title President Franklin D. Roosevelt gave to the series of programs initiated between 1933–1938 with the goal of relief, recovery and reform of the United States economy during the Great Depression. Dozens of alphabet agencies were created as a result of the New Deal.
Examples of the Second New Deal included the WPA, which was the major relief agency of the New Deal. It was to provide work, not welfare. The major new piece of legislation during the Second New Deal was the Social Security Act of 1935. The Second New Deal was similar to the First New Deal only in the amount of legislation passed by Congress or bills presented to the Congress between 1935 and 1938.
zeppelin. The one major difference between the First New Deal and the Second New Deal was that Roosevelt dealt only with banking reform during the First New Deal and moved on to jobs during the Second New Deal. Added 1/13/2013 6:31:42 AM. Comments. There are no comments. The one major difference between the First New Deal and the Second New Deal was that Roosevelt dealt only with banking reform during the First New Deal and moved on to jobs during the Second New Deal. Added 1/13/2013 6:31:27 AM. debnjerry.
In History of the United States.   The Second New Deal was similar to the First New Deal only in the amount of legislation passed by Congress or bills presented to the Congress between 1935 and 1938.
What was one major difference between the First New Deal and the Second New Deal? Conservatives supported the programs of the First New Deal, but not those of the Second New Deal. The programs of the First New Deal were not very popular, but those of the Second New Deal were. The First New Deal tried to restore basic economic functions, and the Second New Deal tried to improve people's lives. Roosevelt dealt only with banking reform during the First New Deal, and moved on to jobs during
The First New Deal, 1933, was an attempt to save the capitalistic system and the agencies and laws created had something for just about every sector of society. The Second New … Deal, 1935-36, dealt with some of the class conflict in society at that time. Examples of the Second New Deal  included the WPA, which was the major relief agency of the New  Deal. It was to provide work, not welfare. The major new piece of  legislation during the Second New Deal was the Social Security Act  of 1935.