a group of cells of the same type is called a tissue  a group of tissues of the same type is called an organ system. A group of cells with the same form (shape) and function is a tissue. Some examples of human tissues are:   connective tissue epithelial tissue nervous tissue mus … cle tissue   Tissues are grouped into organs, and organs may be grouped into systems. 7 people found this useful.
Cell groups are a specific type of small group and a type of small group that has a specific model of ministry. Most small groups are one of the programs offered by a church congregation. 
The cell group is a form of church organization that is used in some Christian churches. Cell groups are generally intended to teach the Bible and personalize Christian fellowship. The term cell group is derived from biology: the cell is the basic unit of life in a body. In a metaphorical sense, just as a body is made up of many cells that give it life, the cell church is made of cell groups that give it life.
In some Microsoft documentation, a group of cells is called a selection set. To put together your own group of cells, you need to use the mouse. Click on the first cell in the group. As you click on each subsequent cell in the group, simply hold down the Ctrl key. Each cell you click on is added to the group. Excel allows you to define a group of cells in preparation for doing an action, such as formatting the cells. This is different than picking a range of cells, however. A range of cells is contiguous in nature—every cell between a starting and ending point is selected. A group of cells does not need to be contiguous.
You need to be clearer with your questions. If you're talking about inanimate or inorganic cells such as the ones your car uses then a group of cells is a battery. In terms of confinement chambers a group of cells work together to form a homely place called Prison. In Organisms/ Biology, a group of cells working together is a Tissue, a Group of Tissue's working together is an Organ, A group of Organs is a system: and systems can make up entire organisms. Source(s): A-Level Biology. NimbleNimrod · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Organ. -Group of different tissues that work together to perform a specific task or function-Your heart is an BLANK made of blood tissue, muscle tissue, nerve tissue, and connective tissue-The different tissues work together to perform a specific task. -Group of different organs that work together to perform a specific task or function-your digestive system is a group of organs (mouth, esophagus, stomach, small / large intestine, liver) that
The cell group differs from the house church in that the group is part of an overall church congregation, whereas the house church is a self-contained congregation. The term cell group is derived from biology: the cell is the basic unit of life in a body. In a metaphorical sense, just as a body is made up of many cells that give it life, the cell church is made of cell groups that give it life.
A group of cells with the same form (shape) and function is a tissue. Some examples of human tissues are:   connective tissue epithelial tissue nervous tissue mus … cle tissue   Tissues are grouped into organs, and organs may be grouped into systems. 7 people found this useful. A group of similar cells form a tissue. Tissues form organs. And organs form systems. And systems form the organism. 4 people found this useful. Edit.
a group of cells of the same type is called a tissue. a group of tissues of the same type is called an organ system. A group of similar cells form a tissue. Tissues form organs. And organs form systems. And systems form the organism. 4 people found this useful. Edit.