Cardiomyopathy, also called myocarditis, is a serious disease of the heart. In it, the heart muscle becomes inflamed and weakened, causing symptoms of heart failure, which can mimic a heart attack. Cardiomyopathy can be classified as primary or secondary. Cardiomyopathy is the term used to describe any disease that affects the heart's ability to pump blood. Cardiomyopathy can be classified three ways: 1  Dilated (or congestive) cardiomyopathy refers to a weakness in the walls
Others don't have signs or symptoms in the early stages of the disease. As cardiomyopathy worsens and the heart weakens, signs and symptoms of heart failure usually occur. These signs and symptoms include: 1  Shortness of breath or trouble breathing. 2  Fatigue (tiredness). 3  Swelling in the ankles, feet, legs, and abdomen. 4  Rarely, swelling may occur in the veins of your neck. 
Restrictive cardiomyopathy, the rarest form of cardiomyopathy, is a condition in which the walls of the lower chambers of the heart (the ventricles) are abnormally rigid and lack the flexibility to expand as the ventricles fill with blood. 
Cardiomyopathy refers to diseases of the heart muscle. These diseases have many causes, signs and symptoms, and treatments. In cardiomyopathy, the heart muscle becomes enlarged, thick, or rigid. In rare cases, the muscle tissue in the heart is replaced with scar tissue. As cardiomyopathy worsens, the heart becomes weaker.
Cardiomyopathy (kahr-dee-o-my-OP-uh-thee) is a condition where the heart muscle is abnormal. The main types of cardiomyopathy include dilated, hypertrophic and restrictive cardiomyopathy. Cardiomyopathy can lead to heart failure. Cardiomyopathy can be treated. The type of treatment you'll receive depends on which type of cardiomyopathy you have and how serious it is. Your treatment may include medications, surgically implanted devices or, in severe cases, a heart transplant.
Cardiomyopathy refers to diseases of the heart muscle. These diseases have many causes, signs and symptoms, and treatments. In cardiomyopathy, the heart muscle becomes enlarged, thick or rigid. In rare cases, the muscle tissue in the heart is replaced with scar tissue.
Although the term cardiomyopathy could theoretically apply to almost any disease affecting the heart, it is usually reserved for severe myocardial disease leading to heart failure.Cardiomyopathy and myocarditis resulted in 443,000 deaths in 2013, up from 294,000 in 1990. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cardiomyopathy (literally heart muscle disease) is the measurable deterioration for any reason of the ability of the myocardium (the heart muscle) to contract, usually leading to heart failure.
Cardiomyopathy is a progressive disease of the heart muscle. Learn about the types, symptoms, treatment, and prognosis of this disease. Cardiomyopathy is a progressive disease of the myocardium, or heart muscle. In most cases, the heart muscle becomes weakened and unable to pump blood to the rest of the body as well as it should. 
A. A. A. Cardiomyopathy, or heart muscle disease, is a type of progressive heart disease in which the heart is abnormally enlarged, thickened, and/or stiffened. As a result, the heart muscle's ability to pump blood is weakened, often causing heart failure and the backup of blood into the lungs or rest of the body. 