You will need to watch your symptoms after you miscarry to determine if your recovery is progressing at a normal and healthy pace. Spontaneous miscarriage refers to a condition that is caused when the body aborts a fetus within 20 weeks of gestation. As your body heals it may take time for your menstrual cycle to return to normal. Your first period after your miscarriage should occur four weeks after the hCG levels return to zero. Many examinations only measure these levels until the hCG levels fall below 5, so it can be difficult to determine when exactly normal bleeding can be expected. 
So, when will you get your period? Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months. Your specific situation will be different than any other womans. Trying to Get Pregnant 23 Comments. After a miscarriage you may be devastated, but it is not uncommon to begin to wonder right away when you will get your period again so you can begin trying to conceive all over again.
Your bleeding will taper off to spotting within a week, and maybe random spotting will continue for another week. Your hCG drops steadily, usually hitting zero during the end of the spotting, or about 10 days after the miscarriage or D&C. When the spotting ends, you will get strange symptoms. Only now will your levels drop to zero and a new cycle begin. You cannot expect a normal period any sooner than four weeks from this, and up to seven weeks could still be normal. Your total wait time from original miscarriage to first period can creep up to nine or ten weeks an
Menstrual cycle. You may resume a normal cycle immediately with the next period 28 days after the miscarriage but there is a great personal variation, and it can take up to 6 or 7 weeks for your period to return, especially if you had a “natural” miscarriage (i.e. no D&C or tablets).
You should expect to get your period about four weeks after a D&C and you might expect to see your period around six weeks after a miscarriage that did not require a D&C. Trying to Get Pregnant 23 Comments. After a miscarriage you may be devastated, but it is not uncommon to begin to wonder right away when you will get your period again so you can begin trying to conceive all over again.
So if a woman has a 28 day cycle, she'll ovulate around 14 days after the miscarriage and have a period about 28 days after the start of the miscarriage,” says Aszani Stoddard, Certified Nurse-Midwife with Park Nicollet Health Services in Minnesota. You’ll get your period in about a month, if you have a typical menstrual cycle. “Most of the time, the body treats a miscarriage as though it is a period.
It usually takes four to six weeks for your periods to return after a miscarriage, although it can take longer to settle into a regular cycle. The length of time it takes will depend on how regular your periods were before your pregnancy. It’s worth seeing your GP for advice if your periods haven’t returned after four to six weeks and your cycle was regular before your pregnancy.
Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months. Trying to Get Pregnant 23 Comments. After a miscarriage you may be devastated, but it is not uncommon to begin to wonder right away when you will get your period again so you can begin trying to conceive all over again.
1 Vaginal bleeding, similar to a menstrual period, may last up to a week after a miscarriage. 2  Light bleeding, or spotting. 3  Depending on your menstrual cycle, normal periods should resume in 3-6 weeks. 4  Lower abdominal pain similar to menstrual cramps may last up to 2 days after the miscarriage. 1 Depending on your menstrual cycle, normal periods should resume in 3-6 weeks. 2  Lower abdominal pain similar to menstrual cramps may last up to 2 days after the miscarriage. 3  Breast discomfort, engorgement or leaking milk; ice packs and a supportive bra may relieve discomfort.
To put this clearly in simple terms, you should have twenty consecutive spotting-free days after bleeding caused by miscarriage. If you experience any bleeding period after this 20 days, it will probably be the real period. This normally comes at about 4 to 6 weeks after the miscarriage. This period will be heavy as compared to the normal light periods that you usually get, and may be accompanied by severe cramping. First Period After Miscarriage. When you have had a miscarriage, you will probably be waiting for the time you are going to have the period. You might be eager to try to get pregnant again, just after having a