Herbert Spencer (1820–1903) was an enormously influential English philosopher and agnostic of the Victorian era who coined the term ‘survival of the fittest’. Dubbed ‘the philosopher of the Evolution movement’, he published a theory of evolution seven years before Darwin.
It was Spencer, not Darwin, who first popularized the term ‘evolution’; it was Spencer who coined the term ‘survival of the fittest’. Spencer’s theory of evolution was basically Lamarckism, i.e. that organs develop or diminish by use or disuse, and that such changes are inherited by future generations.
Young (1909-59) is credited with being the first person to use bread as an expression meaning money, and-probably-to employ cool itself as a term of approval (in which case he has left a mark not just on music but also on the vocabulary of every teenager in Britain today).
At that time I heard the word used only in reference to someone who was involved with an Alcoholic-and since I was a Recovering Alcoholic, I obviously could not be Codependent. The above is a quote from the Author's Foreword to Codependence: The Dance of Wounded Souls by Robert Burney.
Parents were waiting longer to goad their youngsters into marriage rather than pairing them off at the tender age of sixteen or seventeen. In short, it soon became apparent that a new stage of life — the teenage phase — was becoming a reality in America. American adolescents were displaying traits unknown among children and adults. Although the word teenager did not come into use until decades later, the teenage mindset dawned in the 1920s.
TEEN, TEENAGER/TEEN-AGER -- According to these references, teen is older than teenager but teen wasn't in wide use until 1951, a decade after teenager. America discovered the teenager in the 1940s, or, perhaps more correctly, the American teenager invented herself and himself in the 1940s.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I believe it was coined in the 50's,when the demographic started to become recognized. Previous to that era, young people were considered to be more or less trainee adults, and in fact were often out working at an early age of 14-15.