You should also treat your wife with love and kindness, and use your relationship as a model of love and care that your grandchildren can aspire to, one day. 1  Be affectionate with your wife in front of your grandchildren, and give them a positive model of a relationship. 1 In addition to encouraging your grandchildren to go outdoors, you should motivate them to be active. 2  This should go hand in hand with going outside. 3  If you’re on the beach, throw a Frisbee around or swim with them. 4  If you’re at a park, help them play tag or play ring toss or another fun game.
Fortunately, grandpas are all-wise — just ask us! We can play that role by setting an example and being close by when a child is in need. [bluebox wise]Grandpas, when a child needs a listening ear, listen. After you've listened for an hour or so, a child may be open to a single sentence of your wisdom. Never make the mistake of trying to impart any more than that. [bluebox stars]If you camp or hike, take the grandkids with you. Short hikes are okay, even just to the Dairy Queen, and camping is great even in the backyard. Climb a tree or a rock with the kids, or at least give them a boost up and ooh and aah about how high they are. Walk along a stream. Skip rocks on a lake.
6. Listen to them. Another important way to give your grandkids the love they deserve is to sit down and really listen to them. As the grandfather, you may be more used to talking than to listening, but if you really want to show them that you care, then you have to let them see that what they have to say is important. 1 In addition to encouraging your grandchildren to go outdoors, you should motivate them to be active. 2  This should go hand in hand with going outside. 3  If you’re on the beach, throw a Frisbee around or swim with them. 4  If you’re at a park, help them play tag or play ring toss or another fun game.
Being as loving and caring as possible is the most important thing you can do. 1  Be affectionate. 2  It’s important to give them hugs, kisses, and a lot of love. 3  If you’re the proud grandfather, just be aware that other people will be in line to hold your new grandchild ahead of you, including the parents and grandmothers. 1 In addition to encouraging your grandchildren to go outdoors, you should motivate them to be active. 2  This should go hand in hand with going outside. 3  If you’re on the beach, throw a Frisbee around or swim with them. 4  If you’re at a park, help them play tag or play ring toss or another fun game.
A grandfather clause (or grandfather policy) is a provision in which an old rule continues to apply to some existing situations while a new rule will apply to all future cases. Those exempt from the new rule are said to have grandfather rights or acquired rights. 
Similarly, you can use the grandfather clause for processes. Let’s take engineering processes as an example. You know that, prior to a certain date, your drawings, design reviews, and design validations were not created or performed according to the newly established procedures. Some people wonder whether using the grandfather clause is a free pass to forgo records. The answer is no. You still need the records. Granted, those records may lack certain objective evidence, but that’s exactly where the grandfather clause comes in.
1 Be affectionate. 2  It’s important to give them hugs, kisses, and a lot of love. 3  If you’re the proud grandfather, just be aware that other people will be in line to hold your new grandchild ahead of you, including the parents and grandmothers. 4  Have patience and you’ll have a chance to shower your grandchild with love. 1 In addition to encouraging your grandchildren to go outdoors, you should motivate them to be active. 2  This should go hand in hand with going outside. 3  If you’re on the beach, throw a Frisbee around or swim with them. 4  If you’re at a park, help them play tag or play ring toss or another fun game.
Grandfathers can play such an important role in the lives of their grandchildren, from the earliest days of their lives through their growing up years. But some of the choices a grandfather makes can determine how successful he will be in this new and important part of his life. These seven tips can help a man blossom in his role as a grandfather, learn how to best influence these little grandchildren for good and have fun in the process. Spend time when possible.
One does not have to do anything to become a grandfather. It simply happens when your child has a child. It is up to you to decide how involved you will be in your grandchild's life. There is an inherent biological relationship but the emotional bonding between grandfather and grandchild comes only with effort.
Lorin Barber is the author of a wise and witty new guide to grandfathering, 28 Tips to Become a Great Grandpa (Bonneville, 2011). In honor of Father's Day, he's sharing six of his tips with Grandparents.com. Read on, and happy Father's Day! 1. Share (Some of) Your Wisdom. [bluebox stars]If you camp or hike, take the grandkids with you. Short hikes are okay, even just to the Dairy Queen, and camping is great even in the backyard. Climb a tree or a rock with the kids, or at least give them a boost up and ooh and aah about how high they are. Walk along a stream. Skip rocks on a lake.