Food and Feeding Behavior. 1  Great horned owls primarily eat small mammals such as rabbits, skunks and rodents. 2  They also eat various birds, including songbirds, ducks and even wild turkeys. 3  To a much lesser extent, they eat reptiles, amphibians, fish and insects. 
Range / Habitat: The Barn Owl is one of the most widely distributed birds in the world. They are found on all continents except Antarctica. The Barn Owl occupies a wide range of habitats, including deserts, grasslands, forests, fields and urban areas. In Washington, they are found around agricultural areas or basalt cliffs, as well as forest openings, wetlands, and other open spaces. In winter, they roost in conifer trees or barns.
Diet. Small mammals (mostly rodents) are the main prey. When voles are abundant, they become a major source of food, and in these years, some Barn Owls may be able to raise additional broods. Barn Owls occur worldwide, and are usually found in open or semi-open habitats. In Washington, they are closely associated with agricultural areas or basalt cliffs, as well as forest openings, wetlands, and other relatively large, open spaces.
Diet: Barn Owls eat small mammals, especially rodents. They also eat birds, reptiles, and insects. Nesting: Barn Owls build nests in hollow trees, cliff cavities, in buildings, and nest boxes. They do not build a true nest, but much of the debris around the nest is formed into a depression. The female lays 2-11 eggs (usually about 5), and incubates them for 29-34 days. The Barn Owl occupies a wide range of habitats, including deserts, grasslands, forests, fields and urban areas. In Washington, they are found around agricultural areas or basalt cliffs, as well as forest openings, wetlands, and other open spaces. In winter, they roost in conifer trees or barns.
About Owls. Owls are members of the Strigiformes, an order of birds of prey (like Hawks and Eagles). All owls are characterized by their large forward-facing eyes, hawk-like beak, flat face and circle of feathers around the face (called a facial disc). 
Habitat. Barn Owls occur worldwide, and are usually found in open or semi-open habitats. In Washington, they are closely associated with agricultural areas or basalt cliffs, as well as forest openings, wetlands, and other relatively large, open spaces. In winter, they roost in dense conifers or barns
Species range provided by WWF's Wildfinder. The Barn owl can be found in a number of locations including: Africa, Asia, Australia, China, Europe, Indian subcontinent, Madagascar, Mediterranean, North America, South America, United Kingdom, Wales, Ynys-hir nature reserve. Barn owls have over 30 subspecies and, with a few exceptions, they are distributed world-wide. The barn owls which live further north in Europe are a darker shade than the race found in the UK. Barn owls do not hoot, instead they emit a long, eerie screech (its alternative name is the screech owl).
Notes. The barn owl can be found, not only in North and South America, but throughout the world in Australia, Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and Europe. 
Barn owl. Barn owls have over 30 subspecies and, with a few exceptions, they are distributed world-wide. The barn owls which live further north in Europe are a darker shade than the race found in the UK. Barn owls do not hoot, instead they emit a long, eerie screech (its alternative name is the screech owl).
The distinct face of the barn owl is recognized around the world. In fact, one is as likely to spot the white, heart shaped face in Oklahoma as in Africa, or even Australia. The barn owl is one of the most wide-spread of all land birds. They are found on all continents (except Antarctica) and even on many large, oceanic islands. In Oklahoma, as in across their cosmopolitan range, barn owls can be found in mixed grasslands or open forests and they are often found in close association with man. This distinctive, crow-sized owl grows 15 to 20 inches in height and is mostly white in color although it can appear tan or even yellow at times.