For typhoid fever, the incubation period can be between 3 and 60 days, although most infections occur 7-14 days after contamination. The incubation period for typhoid fever is highly variable and depends on inoculum size, host susceptibility, and the bacterial strain. The symptoms can be mild to severe and may last between 5-7 days. The Typhimurium serotype is the most common cause of gastroenteritis and there are an estimated 1.3 billion cases and 3 million deaths annually (1.4 million cases and 600 deaths in the US alone) due to non-typhoidal Salmonella.
1 The incubation period of Salmonella gastroenteritis is 6-72 hours. 2  In most cases, children have cramping abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and loose watery stools. 3  Stools may be bloody; however, this is not as common as in infection with Shigella. Enteric fever (typhoid fever). 1  Enteric fever is caused by S. typhi and several other Salmonella serotypes. 2  The incubation period for enteric fever is 3-60 days, but symptoms typically occur in 1-2 weeks. 3  Patients may present with high fever, which rises in a steplike fashion.
Salmonella infection is usually caused by eating raw or undercooked meat, poultry, eggs or egg products. The incubation period ranges from several hours to two days. Most salmonella infections can be classified as gastroenteritis. Possible signs and symptoms include: 1  Nausea. 2  Vomiting. 3  Abdominal cramps. 4  Diarrhea. 5  Fever. 6  Chill
The timeline is as follows: 1. Incubation time: The time from eating a contaminated food to the beginning of symptoms. For Salmonella, this is typically 1-3 days, sometimes longer. 2. Time to contact with health care provider/doctor: The time from the first symptom until the person seeks medical care, when a diarrhea sample is collected for laboratory testing. Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases. To find cases in an outbreak of Salmonella infections, public health laboratories serotype the Salmonella bacteria and perform a kind of “DNA fingerprinting” on Salmonella laboratory samples.
In children, it can present as a non-specific fever. The incubation period for S. Typhi is usually 8 to 14 days, but it can range from 3 to 60 days. [5, 6] For S. Paratyphi infections, the incubation period is similar to that of non-typhoidal Salmonella, 1 to 10 days. [5,6]. 1  Previous: Transmission. The incubation period, or the time from ingestion of the bacteria until the symptoms start, is generally 6 to 72 hours; however, there is evidence that in some situations the incubation can be longer than 10 days.
Thus, incubation period of salmonella may be anywhere between 8 hours to 72 hours. Symptoms such as fever, muscle pain and joint pain may surface within 5 days of exposure to salmonella infection. Incubation period of salmonella infection is greatly dependent upon the person's health and fitness.
Salmonella Incubation Period. After entering the host body, salmonella stays dormant for a few hours. This is called incubation period, wherein there are no symptoms of infection. Gastrointestinal symptoms surface within 8 to 48 hours of ingestion of salmonella. These include nausea, vomiting, watery stools, diarrhea, colic, etc. Symptoms such as fever, muscle pain and joint pain may surface within 5 days of exposure to salmonella infection. Incubation period of salmonella infection is greatly dependent upon the person's health and fitness.