Enter Airtime PIN. The Airtime PIN is a group of numbers found on the back of your TracFone Prepaid Wireless Airtime card or the Airtime PIN code(s) found on your retail cash register receipt. To find your phone number. Your phone number should be displayed on your screen. 1  Select the Menu option on your phone. 
Choose the phone’s main menu and select the “prepaid option.” Now click “My ESN” (it can be My IMEI or Serial Number depending on the phone). Note the number displayed when this option is clicked and also record the SIM serial number. Open the TracFone website http://www.tracfone.com to activate the phone. The TracFone activation process is different for different models. Whatever the phone’s brand, it is important to note the IMEI and SIM card serial numbers that come with the phone. When compared to other phones, activating a Verizon Wireless prepaid phone is simple.
Enter Airtime PIN. The Airtime PIN is a group of numbers found on the back of your TracFone Prepaid Wireless Airtime card or the Airtime PIN code(s) found on your retail cash register receipt. To find your phone number. Your phone number should be displayed on your screen. 
I opened a chat from tracfone's website and I was instructed that the serial number of the phone (imei) was my account number and because they were a prepay service there was NO pin. I sure hope that person was right because i left the pin text box empty when completing the online form for republic. Just wanted to update my previous post on transferring number from tracfone. Used phone serial number/imei number and no pin number and my transfer went through in just about 48 hours. Was seemless and smooth.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I am assuming you are trying to find the serial number on a particular phone from Tracfone. Actually how to find the serial number (also called ESN) can vary with which phone you have. It is normally one of the optioins on the MENU under the PREPAID option. If you can't locate it there, go to www.tracfone.com and under PRODUCtS choose PHONE. The different type of phones will be displayed
Save. Digital Vision./Digital Vision/Getty Images. TracFone's website boasts it is the United States' number one prepaid cell phone provider with over 18 million subscribers as of the date of this publication. There will be times throughout your ownership of a TracFone phone that you will need its serial number. Each phone's serial number is located in a different place. Fortunately, TracFone understands this and provides detailed instructions to find your specific phone's serial number. Select click here from the answer: For instructions on how to find your serial number, click here.. Find your specific TracFone model and click on it. Follow the instructions on how to find your phone's serial number.
A TracFone customer has to activate the cell phone before using it. It can be activated via the TracFone website or TracFone customer care. It is also possible to download the programming codes from the website directly to the cell phone. Customers can also utilize the OTA (Over The Air) feature to activate a TracFone. The TracFone activation process is different for different models. Whatever the phone’s brand, it is important to note the IMEI and SIM card serial numbers that come with the phone. When compared to other phones, activating a Verizon Wireless prepaid phone is simple.
Then get the SIM Serial Number, and write it down, too. Go to the Tracfone website -- http://www.tracfone.com -- and click on Activate/Reactivate.. Click on the brand of phone you have. That will bring up a list of models, complete with pictures. Click on yours. 