Report Abuse. The CRA says 6 weeks if you mail it but it is usually a bit longer, given that you filed right at the deadline and so does everyone else. I would expect it by end of June/early July. You can check the status of your refund online through the CRA website's Access. Next year, I suggest filing online via Netfile. 
The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) does not start processing Canadian income tax returns until the middle of February. No matter how early you file your income tax return, you will not be able to get information on the status of an income tax refund until the middle of March. For paper tax returns filed before April 15, wait four weeks before you check on your refund. For paper tax returns filed after April 15, wait six weeks before you check. Processing Times for Electronic Returns. Electronic (NETFILE or EFILE) returns can take as little as eight business days to be processed.
Processing Times for Tax Refunds. The length of time it takes the CRA to process your income tax return and refund depends on how and when you file your return. Processing Times for Paper Returns. Paper returns usually take four to six weeks to process. For paper tax returns filed before April 15, wait four weeks before you check on your refund. For paper tax returns filed after April 15, wait six weeks before you check. Processing Times for Electronic Returns. Electronic (NETFILE or EFILE) returns can take as little as eight business days to be processed.
1 After you have filed your return using NETFILE.  The NETFILE program will be open for transmissions on February 9, 2015, until January 15, 2016, for the electronic filing of your 2013 and 2014 personal income tax and benefit return.
NETFILE is an electronic tax-filing service that allows you to send your individual income tax and benefit return directly to the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) using the Internet and a NETFILE-certified software product. It streamlines the tax-filing process and offers the following benefits: The NETFILE program will be open for transmissions on February 9, 2015, until January 15, 2016, for the electronic filing of your 2013 and 2014 personal income tax and benefit return.
If you are owed a refund, you will get a direct deposit into your bank account. You can expect your tax return in about 2 weeks if you used NETFILE, and 4 - 6 weeks if you filed it by mail. See information about CRA penalties and interest rates. When you file your tax return, the federal government determines if you are eligible for benefits, such as the Canada Child Tax Benefit (CCTB) , the Ontario Child Benefit, or the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) credit.
Update: I should add that this is for my hubby's tax refund, so I can't call Revenue Canada on his behalf, and he can't call right now, because he's out on the road (trucker) and doesn't have the time to sit at a payphone for who knows how long :-) He also can't apply for that my... Well, the 2005 return will take longer than the 2006, since the tax centre is doing 2006 right now. If the 2006 return depends on the 2005 return for some reason (carryforwards, for example), you may be waiting several weeks.
After you have completed your return you have a choice to transmit via NETFILE or print and mail your return. If you have transmitted your return by NETFILE, all your data is sent to the CRA and /or the Revenu Quebec and you will receive a confirmation number from the CRA and the Revenu Quebec websites. It can take 2 to 3 weeks to receive a refund when you transmit your return via NETFILE. For mailed returns, refunds are mailed out in 4 to 6 weeks following receipt of the return by the CRA or the Revenu Quebec. If you haven't filed in your return yet, you must do so by choosing the option that suits your needs best. 
Warning Do not ignore a letter from the CRA. If the CRA doesn't receive a response to its letter within 30 days, it will adjust your claim based on the information it has. This may not be in your favour. ​The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) may contact you about your tax return, and not necessarily just at tax time. 