Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. The membrane-bound form of an antibody may be called a surface immunoglobulin (sIg) or a membrane immunoglobulin (mIg). It is part of the B cell receptor (BCR), which allows a B cell to detect when a specific antigen is present in the body and triggers B cell activation.
Monoclonal antibodies. Vaccines are not the only form of medical treatment which relies on the immune system. Monoclonal antibodies are antibodies which are made to target particular cells or chemicals in the body. Some lymphocytes (called B lymphocytes) make antibodies but cannot divide.
Antibodies are immunoglobulins, abbreviated as Ig, made by the body’s adaptive immune system. Through complex maturation processes, specific antibodies are created to target antigens. This webpage discusses how antibodies are naturally made in the body and how they can be generated for research use. 
Monoclonal antibodies are artificially produced against a specific antigen in order to bind to their target antigens. Laboratory production of monoclonal antibodies is produced from clones of only 1 cell which means that every monoclonal antibody produced by the cell is the same. 
They are part of the immune (defence) system and are sometimes called immunoglobulins. They are made by B lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). Antibodies attach to proteins and other chemicals in the body, which they recognise to be foreign (not normally found in the body). The foreign proteins and chemicals that antibodies attach to are called antigens. The immune system 'mistakes' a protein in your body to be a foreign antigen. It then makes antibodies which attach to this protein. This can cause damage or other problems to the affected part of the body. For example, the common cause of an underactive thyroid gland is due to an autoimmune problem.
Antibodies are host proteins that are produced by the immune system in response to foreign molecules that enter the body. These foreign molecules are called antigens, and their molecular recognition by the immune system results in selective production of antibodies that are able to bind the specific antigen. 
Monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer. One way the immune system attacks foreign substances in the body is by making large numbers of antibodies. An antibody is a protein that sticks to a specific protein called an antigen. Antibodies circulate throughout the body until they find and attach to the antigen. Once attached, they can recruit other parts of the immune system to destroy the cells containing the antigen. 
Antibodies protect against substances prior to cell infection. Antibodies are produced by a type of white blood cell called a B cell (B lymphocyte). B cells develop from stem cells in bone marrow. When B cells become activated due to the presence of a particular antigen, they develop into cells called plasma cells. Antibodies recognize specific antigens by identifying certain areas on the surface of the antigen known as antigenic determinants. Once the specific antigenic determinant is recognized, the antibody will bind to the determinant. The antigen is tagged as an intruder and labeled for destruction by other immune
Insulin is the main hormone that controls your blood sugar (glucose). Cells in the pancreas called islet [EYE-let] cells secrete insulin. Antibodies are proteins made by your immune system to defend against foreign substances. Sometimes antibodies can be directed against your own body organs. This results in diseases that are called “autoimmune.” Type 1 diabetes is one such disease where antibodies are made against the body’s own islet cells. These antibodies can be detected by blood tests.