The standard deviation calculation tells you how spread out the numbers are in your sample. To figure this out for your sample or data set, you will need to perform a few calculations first. You will need to find the mean and variance of your data before you can find the standard deviation. Variance is a measure of how far your data is clustered around the mean. Standard deviation is found by taking the square root of the variance of
Find the Mean. The first step when calculating standard deviation is to find the mean of the data set. Mean is average, or the sum of the numbers divided by the number of items in the set. For example, the five students in an honors math course earned grades of 100, 97, 89, 88, and 75 on a math test.
This means that the standard deviation is equal to the square root of the difference between the average of the squares of the values and the square of the average value. See computational formula for the variance for proof, and for an analogous result for the sample standard deviation.
To calculate the variance follow these steps: 1  Work out the Mean (the simple average of the numbers). 2  Then for each number: subtract the Mean and square the result (the squared difference). 3  Then work out the average of those squared differences.
To calculate the standard deviation of those numbers: 1  1. 2  Work out the Mean (the simple average of the numbers). 3  2. Then for each number: subtract the Mean and square the result. 4  3. Then work out the mean of those squared differences.
For the set of test scores, the standard deviation is the square root of 75.76, or 8.7. Remember that standard deviation needs to be interpreted within the context of the data set. If you have 100 items in a data set and the standard deviation is 20, there is a relatively large spread of values away from the mean.
Standard deviation is a measure of how spread out numbers are from the average of a data set. It is not the same as average or mean deviation or absolute deviation, where the absolute value of each distance from the mean is used, so be careful to apply the correct steps when calculating deviation.
Calculate the Sample Standard Deviation. 1  Calculate the mean or average of each data set. 2  To do this, add up all the numbers in a data set and divide by the total number of pieces of data. 3  For example, if you have found numbers in a data set, divide the sum by 4.