Although tulips and daffodils are cold-tolerant, temperatures below 29 degrees Fahrenheit can damage their tender buds and flowers. An extended hard freeze can damage whole plants. Because next year's plants are forming within the bulbs, though, cold damage may be limited to this year's growth. Some other bulb plants even bloom through snow, leading the way in spring. Provided they are not in bloom, tulips and daffodils are tough enough to survive a few nights of light frost. A coating of snow may weight them down or break their emerging stems, but won't kill the bulbs.
There are a few exceptions to the rule, however, such as the Paper White Narcissus, which is only hardy in zones 8-11. If your buds are already showing any color, you might want to pick them and bring them into the house. where they will open up. Daffodils should always be snapped off, never cut or snipped! 
How to Grow Daffodils Indoors. Daffodil bulbs require a cold season to grow and bloom. If you plant bulbs outdoors in the fall, you must wait until the spring for them to bloom, but you can enjoy the blooms much earlier if you choose to grow daffodils indoors. Growing bulbs indoors is known as forcing bulbs. 1 You can grow the Paperwhite variety by simply planting the bulbs in an indoor pot and waiting 2 to 6 weeks. 2  Most other varieties will require cold treatment, which adds an additional 12 weeks to the required growing time. 3  Choose a plant size.
Containers are not just for perennials and annuals. Bulbs, especially tulip bulbs, can make a spectacular focal point in your spring garden, but eventually the weather will start to get cold and you will need to decide what to do with tulip bulbs in containers. Advertisement. Fertilize well – While your tulips are growing and blooming during the spring, they are storing energy to help them survive the winter. The more energy you can help them store, the more likely they are to survive. In containers, the bulbs do not have as much opportunity to seek out nutrients.
No Guarantees for Cold Hardiness. Canna bulbs are generally not cold hardy outside of tropical or warm winter areas. You can consider a canna bulb to be cold hardy if it can survive the average winter in your garden. Canna bulbs have a limited ability to enter a dormant state during periods of extended cold weather. If you can keep the bulbs relatively warm and dry, they may bloom in the summer. For the winter months, cold-hardy canna might survive in the ground. Transplant cold-hardy bulbs, rather than leave them in the ground, when the predicted temperatures over the winter months are much lower than usual, or when the ground in the area is wet during winter.
| Category: Winter Topics. Mother nature can be quite unpredictable to say the least. Sometimes in early Spring after bulbs have emerged from the ground and are beginning to flower, a sudden cold snap will bring temperatures down below freezing for a few days.
Tough Spring Bulbs. Hardy spring bulbs such as tulips and daffodils survive frozen ground where air temperatures dip to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Some other bulb plants even bloom through snow, leading the way in spring. Provided they are not in bloom, tulips and daffodils are tough enough to survive a few nights of light frost. A coating of snow may weight them down or break their emerging stems, but won't kill the bulbs.
Snowdrops, hyacinths, and some daffodils also seem to be particularly resistant to the cold, wet spring precipitation. An extended freeze, with daytime temperatures that remain below 29 degrees, might cause some damage, but an overnight frost will generally not cause any lasting damage to these tough little bulbs. The location of the bulbs on your property may also have an impact on how much they are affected by the cold. Plants located close to the house may fare better, as they have some protection from the wind, and may benefit from some heat radiating from the house at night. This is a double-edged sword, however.