3. Access the Insert Picture dialog box. The Insert Picture dialog is where you will select the photo you wish to insert in your Word document. The method differs in versions of Word that use the older toolbar and menu interface, such as Word 2003, and the newer ribbon interface, such as Word 2007 and 2010. 2. Click the place in your document where you want the picture to appear. Word's insertion cursor, a vertical blinking bar, will appear at this point. When inserted, the picture's bottom left corner will be
You'll have to save your Word document as a picture page by page, as follows: 1  Open the document you want to save as a picture in Microsoft Word. 2  Maximize your Microsoft Word window. 3  Zoom in or out and scroll until exactly what you want to save as a picture is visible on the screen. 1 Click File, and then select Save as from the drop-down menu. 2  Click the down arrow on the right side of the Save as type box. 3  Choose which type of image you would like to save your picture as. 4  JPEG is a compressed file that may lose some pixels but is ideal for Web or e-mail use.
1 Open the document you want to save as a picture in Microsoft Word. 2  Maximize your Microsoft Word window. 3  Zoom in or out and scroll until exactly what you want to save as a picture is visible on the screen. 4  Press the Alt key and the Print Screen key at the same time [source: Microsoft Windows ]. 1 Click File, and then select Save as from the drop-down menu. 2  Click the down arrow on the right side of the Save as type box. 3  Choose which type of image you would like to save your picture as. 4  JPEG is a compressed file that may lose some pixels but is ideal for Web or e-mail use.
1. Open the Word document that you want to insert a photo in. Ad. 2. Click the place in your document where you want the picture to appear. Word's insertion cursor, a vertical blinking bar, will appear at this point. When inserted, the picture's bottom left corner will be at this point. 1  If you do not select a point, the picture will be inserted wherever the cursor is currently locate
1 Crop your image so you don't see the window around your Word document in the final picture, if you want. 2  Click File, and then select Save as from the drop-down menu. 3  Click the down arrow on the right side of the Save as type box. 1 Click File, and then select Save as from the drop-down menu. 2  Click the down arrow on the right side of the Save as type box. 3  Choose which type of image you would like to save your picture as. 4  JPEG is a compressed file that may lose some pixels but is ideal for Web or e-mail use.
1 Change the Look in box to the location of your Works document. 2  In the Files of type box, click All Files 3  (*.*) . Select the Works document (.wps) that you want to open, and then click Open. 4  If the document opens correctly, click File, click Save As, and then change the file type to a Microsoft Word document (.doc). 1 In Word 2007 or Word 2010, click Microsoft Office Button, and then click Open. 2  In the Open dialog box, follow these steps: 3  Change the Look in box to the location of your Works document. 4  In the Files of type box, click All Files 5
To add WordArt to a Word document at design time. Place your cursor where you want to insert the WordArt in the document. Click the Insert tab of the Ribbon. In the Text group, click WordArt, and then select a WordArt style. Add the text that you want to appear in the document to the Edit WordArt Text dialog box and click OK. The text is added to your document with the selected WordArt style applied
To add a picture to a Word document at design time. Place your cursor where you want to insert the picture in the document. Click the Insert tab of the Ribbon. In the Illustrations group, click Picture. In the Insert Picture dialog box, navigate to the picture you want to insert, and click Insert. Click the Insert tab of the Ribbon. In the Text group, click WordArt, and then select a WordArt style. Add the text that you want to appear in the document to the Edit WordArt Text dialog box and click OK.
If you don't have Microsoft Office Word installed, you can use Word Viewer to open, view, or print documents that were created by using Microsoft Office Word 2007, 2003, 2002, or 2000. However, you cannot edit, save, or create a new Word document unless you have Word installed. You can also use Word Web App to open Word documents. Word Web App works in your browser, so you can view, and print documents without downloading or installing anything.
1. Open the Word document you want to convert to a JPEG. 2. Make sure all the content you want in the JPEG can be seen on the screen. Anything you cannot see on the screen will not be included in the JPEG. To get more onto the screen, use the Zoom option to zoom out. To make any features bigger on the JPEG, zoom in. 8. Convert the Word document to a JPEG by saving the document. Choose Save from the File menu. Type in the name you want to save the document as and choose JPEG from the drop-down menu.