Choose from FusionBeads.com's extensive collection of amazing metal beads made of sterling silver, silver-filled, Thai Hill Tribe silver, gold-filled, copper, brass, plated pewter and base metal in hundreds of styles. Learn more about metal beads by checking out our Metal Glossary. Metal Alphabet Beads. Metal Bead Caps. 
Beads. The beads used to make necklaces and bracelets are made from a wide range of materials, including pearl, gemstones, metal, glass, wood, plastic, and shell. Most styles are made of one type of bead, for example pearls, though more eclectic necklace and bracelet styles combine two or more bead materials. Metal chains are typically made of silver or gold, though stainless steel, titanium, and other novel metals are becoming increasingly popular, especially for men. Necklaces and bracelets made of strings of beads are gemstones feature either a row or prongs or a string running through the center of each bead or gemstone.
Sterling Silver-Filled-items are made by combining a durable outer layer of sterling silver (.925/20) and a copper-alloy core. Fabrication is completed with an anti-tarnish coating to preserve the beauty. To qualify as sterling silver-filled, an item must be at least 1/10, or 10%, sterling silver. Imitation Rhodium-is typically an alloy of copper, tin and zinc, and/or nickel. This is most often used to finish or coat base metals for a bright white, lustrous finish. Karat (Kt) - is the measure of fineness of gold by weight. 24Kt is pure gold, 14Kt gold is 14 parts pure
Beads. Metal beads complement a wide variety of materials from crystals to leather. Our impressive selection of metal beads includes our popular collection of affordable silver plated beads and high quality sterling silver beads. We are also excited to offer inexpensive aluminum beads in 5 different sizes and wide range of vibrant colors. Shop GoodyBeads.com for metal beads and save big! «. ‹. 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4.
Beads made from metals, precious or other, can be solid, plated, filled, or even filigreed. These beads can strong together to create an all metal bracelet or necklace, or they can be used between other types of beads to serve as spacers. Beads are also made of precious metals. Metal chains are typically made of silver or gold, though stainless steel, titanium, and other novel metals are becoming increasingly popular, especially for men. Necklaces and bracelets made of strings of beads are gemstones feature either a row or prongs or a string running through the center of each bead or gemstone.
The metal used in my jewelry at Bead Euphoria is primarily American sterling silver, Bali, Indonesian, Israeli and Thai Hill Tribes silver, 14k and 18k goldfill and gold vermeille. On this page, I'd like to give you a little background and description about these metals and the beads made from them. 
Beads Metal Beads. We have over 250 styles and sizes of metal beads to choose from. Metal beads add a striking visual accent to most beaded jewelry designs. Use our multiple sizes of filigree metal rounds in a matching earring and necklace combination with a coordinated filigree toggle clasp
Sterling Silver: Silver is the whitest of all jewelry metals. Like gold, silver is too soft to use for jewelry in its pure state, so it is usually found as Sterling Silver, an alloy of 92.5% silver and 7.5% other metals, usually copper. Items marked with SS or 925 are sterling silver.
Pendant made from metal clay with gold powder. Metal clay is a crafting medium consisting of very small particles of metal such as silver, gold, bronze, or copper mixed with an organic binder and water for use in making jewelry, beads and small sculptures. 