4. Microtubule regulation of neuronal polarization. Formation of functionally and structurally differentiated compartments such as axons and dendrites is a characteristic feature of neurons. Axons and dendrites emerge during a process known as neuronal polarization [ 26, 72 – 74 ]. Function of microtubules in the spatial regulation of polarization signals. Axonogenesis, the extension of a single immature process and its differentiation into an axon, is the initial morphological event that defines
By examining microtubule orientation with EB1-GFP dynamics in axons and dendrites of all major classes of fly neurons, we have generated a map of neuronal microtubule polarity in flies. As in all neurons so far examined, axonal microtubules were oriented with plus ends distal to the cell body. Sensory dendrites are not postsynaptic; so, they could have a different arrangement of microtubules than central dendrites. To determine the arrangement of dendritic microtubules in central neurons, we imaged EB1-GFP dynamics in an interneuron in the larval brain.
Microtubules (micro- + tube + -ule) are a component of the cytoskeleton, found throughout the cytoplasm. These tubular polymers of tubulin can grow as long as 50 micrometres and are highly dynamic. The outer diameter of a microtubule is about 24 nm while the inner diameter is about 12 nm. They are found in eukaryotic cells and are formed by the polymerization of a dimer of two globular proteins, alpha and beta tubulin. Microtubules are typically nucleated and organized by dedicated organelles called microtubule-organizing centres (MTOCs). Contained within the MTOC is another type of tubulin, γ-tubulin, which is distinct from the α- and β-subunits of the microtubules themselves.
Microtubules are regulated by a variety of proteins in neurons, including molecular motor proteins. Molecular motors transport organelles along the microtubule, but can also transport the microtubules themselves and organize them into regionally distinct patterns. In neurons, microtubules are also nucleated at the centrosome (located in the cell body of the neuron), but the microtubules are then severed from the centrosome so that they can be deployed into axons and dendrites.
Neurons are terminally differentiated cells that do not utilize their microtubules for the formation of mitotic spindles. Instead, microtubules serve as major architectural elements within axons and dendrites and also act as railways for the transport of organelles within these processes. In neurons, microtubules are also nucleated at the centrosome (located in the cell body of the neuron), but the microtubules are then severed from the centrosome so that they can be deployed into axons and dendrites.
Neuronal microtubule organization. (a) By reading the polarity of the microtubule, molecular motor proteins are able to move along the microtubule surface toward either the plus end or the minus end. Cytoplasmic dynein moves toward the minus end, and most members of the kinesin superfamily move toward the plus end. In neurons, microtubules are also nucleated at the centrosome (located in the cell body of the neuron), but the microtubules are then severed from the centrosome so that they can be deployed into axons and dendrites.
Microtubules (MTs) are essential for neuronal morphogenesis in the developing brain. The MT cytoskeleton provides physical support to shape the fine structure of neuronal processes. MT-based motors play important roles in nucleokinesis, process formation and retraction. Function of microtubules in the spatial regulation of polarization signals. Axonogenesis, the extension of a single immature process and its differentiation into an axon, is the initial morphological event that defines neuronal polarization.
3. Microtubule function in the neuronal migration. Neuronal migration is central to proper neuronal alignment in the developing brain and requires orchestrated activity of cellular components, including cytoplasmic MTs [ 1, 4, 23 ]. Function of microtubules in the spatial regulation of polarization signals. Axonogenesis, the extension of a single immature process and its differentiation into an axon, is the initial morphological event that defines neuronal polarization.
Microtubules are hollow polymers made up of tubulin subunits. Neurons, like other eukaryotic cells, contain a pool of free tubulin subunits and a pool of the microtubule polymers. These two pools dynamically exchange with one another such that microtubules undergo bouts of assembly and disassembly. In neurons, microtubules are also nucleated at the centrosome (located in the cell body of the neuron), but the microtubules are then severed from the centrosome so that they can be deployed into axons and dendrites.