Milo combines the strength of the ancient Greek Olympic wrestler of that name—a six-time winner of the Olympic games—with the debonair charm of a WWII RAF pilot. A well-used name in medieval Europe, it predates brother-name Miles, a variation that evolved when the name immigrated to the British Isles. 
English Meaning: The name Mylo is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Mylo is: Merciful. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 2. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Milo. Milo is the root name of Miles. The Norman French and English used Miles from the old Germanic Milo, which was also the Latinized form of Miles used in medieval documents. 
English Meaning: The name Milo is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Milo is: Merciful. German Meaning: The name Milo is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Milo is: Merciful. American Meaning: The name Milo is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Milo is: Merciful. Greek Meaning: The name Milo is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Milo is: Destroyer
Mylo is an uncommonly occurring given name for males. Mylo is an equally unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Prominent varying forms of Mylo (not in Top 1000) are Miles (#108 the previous year) , Myles (#226) , Milo (#311) and Milan (#411) . Mylo /my-lo/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is an alternate spelling of Miles: possibly (Latin) soldier, (Old German) merciful. Malo is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Mcmylo, Mydon, Mylona.
Origin and meaning of Mylo. 4-5 5. The meaning of Mylo is  Possibly soldier or dear one . Its origin is  Modern English variant of the Germanic name Milo . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 1,808th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. Mylo is a variant spelling of Milo, the Old Germanic form of Miles. The origin of Milo is unclear, it is possibly derived from the Slavic mil (gracious) or the Latin miles (soldier).
Meaning of Mylo. English name. In English, the name Mylo means-merciful.The name Mylo originated as an English name. The name Mylo is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-merciful. Origin-England.
[ syll. my-lo, myl-o ] The baby boy name Mylo is pronounced as M IY Low †. Mylo's origin is Latin. Mylo is a variant form of the English name Miles. Mylo is a rare baby boy name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. In 2012, within the family of boy names directly linked to Mylo, Miles was the most regularly used