(And even those catfish that will eat some algae will not eat much and are unlikely to keep the tank looking clean.). Catfish or no catfish, I recommend doing 10-15% water changes once a week for the life of your aquarium. Once you get into this habit, it is not really that much work. Really, it isn't that much work. Cleaning all the fish tanks in a local pet shop was only a 3 hour job.
When cleaning algae off your tank walls it is important that you exercise caution – you do not want to risk injuring yourself (or your fish) and you also do not want to scratch or crack the glass on your tank. Safe Cleaning Tips. If your tank goes through an algae bloom or if you simply have a lot of excess algae growth you may be tempted to simply empty out the tank, scrub it down and start over. Though this option may make sense to you at the time, afterward you may find yourself dealing with unexpected consequences.
Scrub for algae, remove 10-15% of the water while cleaning the gravel and top off the tank with dechlorinated water. These cleaning tips are intended for tanks that are already cycled and are over about 10 gallons in size. Care requirements may vary for tanks that are still cycling or for small aquariums and fish bowls. Catfish or no catfish, I recommend doing 10-15% water changes once a week for the life of your aquarium. Once you get into this habit, it is not really that much work. Really, it isn't that much work. Cleaning all the fish tanks in a local pet shop was only a 3 hour job.
How to Clean Aquarium Decorations. Algae, decaying organic material and fish waste all add to the bio-load of your fish tank. These pollutants have the potential to cover every available surface in your fish tank. 
In order to use an algae scrubber effectively, work from the top of the tank to the bottom and let the algae you scrape off sink to the tank bottom – when you are finished you can siphon it up with your aquarium vacuum. For stubborn algae growths you might need to use a razor blade. Safe Cleaning Tips. If your tank goes through an algae bloom or if you simply have a lot of excess algae growth you may be tempted to simply empty out the tank, scrub it down and start over. Though this option may make sense to you at the time, afterward you may find yourself dealing with unexpected consequences.
So you want to clean using hot water mainly. Use a good scrub brush. Not a wire brush, because a wire brush is going to just ruin and shred most aquarium decorations. And the glass itself will be kept clean just by doing periodic weekly cleanings with the pads. Fish will also help to clean algae. Plecos, Otocinclus, algae eaters in freshwater aquariums. Also, snails will help to clean the glass and decorations in an aquarium. You don’t want to use too many of them. Snails, if allowed to just multiply, will quickly completely overcrowd an aquarium to plague proportions. How to Clean Algae from a Fish Tank. Learn how to clean algae from a fish tank with the help of aquarium expert Joseph Caparatta in this Howcast video.
Once the inside of the aquarium is cleaned, clean the hood, light, tank top, and outside glass. Regular glass cleaners contain ammonia, which is toxic to fish. Standard lime cleaners are even more toxic. I strongly urge using vinegar or cleaners designated as aquarium safe, and rinse rinse rinse! Typically a good scrub with an algae scraper will remove the algae and dirt from rocks and plants. For particularly stubborn cleaning problems, mix a 10% bleach solution and soak the items for 15 to 20 minutes.
The viewing panel you can clean with a regular aquarium algae sponge. Don’t use a sponge from your sink or from CVS or something, because a lot of them have anti-microbial agents, and that’ll harm your aquarium. How to Clean Algae from a Fish Tank. Learn how to clean algae from a fish tank with the help of aquarium expert Joseph Caparatta in this Howcast video.
With a little work and a few simple cleaning supplies you can remove the unsightly algae from your fish tank. Here are some of the supplies you will need: Algae scraper/pad, Razor blade, Regular Household Bleach, Filter media, Water siphon, Lime remover or aquarium glass cleaner, Clean rags or towel, Paper towels. Typically a good scrub with an algae scraper will remove the algae and dirt from rocks and plants. For particularly stubborn cleaning problems, mix a 10% bleach solution and soak the items for 15 to 20 minutes.