Actually it should take a couple of days just from the particular time an underwriter receives a loan file to provide approval what you really refer to as an official approval. But if in case your file is having any problem related to credit score or any document related issue than it may take much time to approve.
For example, trouble verifying a mortgage loan applicant's employment and income history frequently delays mortgage underwriting. Also, the appraisal submitted for a mortgage loan applicant's hoped-for home could be too low, thereby delaying the underwriter's loan approval. Lastly, a mortgage underwriter might need an applicant to submit additional documentation in support of her application, also slowing down mortgage
Because it's based on many factors -- including the capacity of the borrower to pay back the loan, the credit history of the borrower, and any collateral the prospective buyer may be offering -- the process of underwriting, or determining the eligibility of a prospective client, can take from 48 hours to two weeks.
In mortgage underwriting, the lender puts its borrower's loan application, any financial documents the borrower supplies and the home appraisal under the microscope. Though time varies, the mortgage underwriting process typically ranges from a few days to a few weeks, on average.
Second, provide all the information that your loan officer requests. When an underwriter has a question, answer it or provide needed documents quickly. If your lender needs one more paycheck stub or bank statement, for example, don't wait several days to provide it.
Loan Underwriting Rationale. Underwriting is used by a mortgage lender to verify a borrower's finances and examine the home being bought. Underwriting is also the way that a mortgage lender ensures it's not funding an overly risky loan.
Time is of the essence when buying a new home, so sticking to timeframes can mean the difference between closing or the deal falling through. Underwriting, the process by which a mortgage lender analyzes your home loan application for final loan approval, has a lot of bearing on whether your loan closes on time.
If you went with a bank or bank branch they usually take a very long time to close (45-60 days and more). If you went with a mortgage broker, depending on which lender he/she put your through, the underwriting process can vary anywhere from 1 day to 1 week with the whole loan process taking 20-30 days.