The material we call steel is in fact an alloy, a mixture of different metals. The element iron (symbol Fe) makes up a large percentage of all steels, generally composing more than 75 percent of the mix by percent of total mass. Silicon (Electrical) Steel. This steel is used in motors and generators and has a composition of about 0.6 to 5 percent silicon (Si), with one specific steel made of 0.4 percent carbon, 2 percent silicon, and 97.6 percent iron.
It's an alloy, or a solid solution. There isn't an exact, chemically balanced formula for it. Theoretically, steel is composed iron (Fe) with a small amount of carbon dissolved in it; around 0.2% to 1.8% carbon (C) depending on the steel. Different steels may also have other elements added as well. For example, manganese, silicon, chromium, molybdenum, tungsten, and/or nickel. Source(s): 
This type of steel is inexpensive and contains less than 0.25 percent carbon, with about 99 percent of the material deriving from iron. Construction I-beams are made of this steel. Silicon (Electrical) Steel. This steel is used in motors and generators and has a composition of about 0.6 to 5 percent silicon (Si), with one specific steel made of 0.4 percent carbon, 2 percent silicon, and 97.6 percent iron.
The carbon content of steel is between 0.002% and 2.1% by weight for plain iron-carbon alloys. These values vary depending on alloying elements such as manganese, chromium, nickel, iron, tungsten, carbon and so on. Basically, steel is an iron-carbon alloy that does not undergo eutectic reaction. Carbon contents higher than those of steel make an alloy, commonly called pig iron, that is brittle (not malleable). While iron alloyed with carbon is called carbon steel, alloy steel is steel to which other alloying elements have been intentionally added to modify the characteristics of steel.
Steel is an alloy of iron with about 1 percent carbon. It may also contain other elements, such as manganese. Whereas pure iron is a relatively soft metal that rusts easily, steel can be hard, tough, and corrosion-resistant. Carbon Steel. This is the most widely used kind of steel. Its carbon content is under 2 percent and is usually less than 1 percent. It often also contains a little manganese. Stainless Steel. This is the most corrosion-resistant kind of steel. It normally contains at least 12 percent (and sometimes up to 30 percent) chromium, and it usually also contains nickel. A very popular stainless steel formulation is 18-8, 18 percent chromium and 8 percent nickel
Steel is made from iron, and in the process, some element percentages are reduced in the alloy composition (such as carbon and silicon), and other elements (such as chromium, nickel, and tungsten) are added, depending on the type of steel needed. Other People Are Reading. Silicon (Electrical) Steel. This steel is used in motors and generators and has a composition of about 0.6 to 5 percent silicon (Si), with one specific steel made of 0.4 percent carbon, 2 percent silicon, and 97.6 percent iron.
It is chemical. Stainless steel is an alloy of chromium, iron, and carbon. The carbon is what makes the iron harder, as iron is a very soft, malleable metal when pure. The chr … omium in the steel readily goes to the surface of the iron and oxidizes, forming a layer of chromium oxide. Split and merge into it. Answer by Jmattingly. Confidence votes 711. Stainless steel is an alloy which is made from iron, carbon, nickel, and chromium; sometimes molybdenum is also added for greater strength. Because it is an alloy, it has no chemical formula.