- Control of Growth & Development. Hormones are chemical messengers produced by glands in the endocrine system. Endocrine tissues are specialised to produce such hormones, which have genes switched on according the the hormones they were designed to produce. The pituitary gland situated at the back of the brain is responsible for the creation of many hormones that are related to growth in animals. The amount of each hormone produce is regulated by the hypothalamus, a part of the brain situated next to the pituitary gland.
Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue. 
Estrogens are hormones that are important for sexual and reproductive development, mainly in women. They are also referred to as female sex hormones. The term estrogen refers to all of the chemically similar hormones in this group, which are estrone, estradiol (primary in women of reproductive age) and estriol. Estrogen's function. In women, estrogen is produced mainly in the ovaries, but it is also produced by fat cells and the adrenal gland. Estrogen is involved in the onset of puberty, playing a role in the development of so-called secondary sex characteristics, such as breasts, and pubic and armpit hair.
The glands that secrete hormones comprise the endocrine signaling system. The term hormone is sometimes extended to include chemicals produced by cells that affect the same cell (autocrine or intracrine signalling) or nearby cells (paracrine signalling). Hormones affect distant cells by binding to specific receptor proteins in the target cell resulting in a change in cell function. When a hormone binds to the receptor, it results in the activation of a signal transduction pathway.
Hormones can only affect target cells that have the appropriate receptors. This property of hormones is known as specificity. Hormone specificity explains how each hormone can have specific effects in widespread parts of the body. Many hormones produced by the endocrine system are classified as tropic hormones. Hormone Properties. Once hormones have been produced by glands, they are distributed through the body via the bloodstream. As hormones travel through the body, they pass through cells or along the plasma membranes of cells until they encounter a receptor for that particular hormone.
The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands. Hormone Properties. Once hormones have been produced by glands, they are distributed through the body via the bloodstream. As hormones travel through the body, they pass through cells or along the plasma membranes of cells until they encounter a receptor for that particular hormone.
A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour. Hormones affect distant cells by binding to specific receptor proteins in the target cell resulting in a change in cell function. When a hormone binds to the receptor, it results in the activation of a signal transduction pathway.
Plant Hormones and Plant Growth Regulators. Another factor in plant growth is the influence of plant hormones. Hormones are chemicals produced by plants that regulate the growth processes. Plant growth regulators are chemicals applied by a horticulturist to regulate plant growth. Understanding hormones is key to proper pruning. Auxin produced in the terminal buds suppresses growth of side buds and stimulates root growth. Gibberellins produced in the root growing tips stimulate shoot growth. Pruning a newly planted tree removes the auxin, slowing root regeneration. Figure 2.