Symptoms of kidney stones. You may not know you have a kidney stone unless it causes pain, is large and blocks the flow of urine or is being passed. The most common symptom is severe, fluctuating pain in the lower back or side under the ribs. Kidney stones are a formation of hardened minerals in the kidneys or urinary system. In most cases, kidney stones are formed because of a decrease in urine volume or increase in the minerals that form the stones in the urine. About 1 in every 20 people will have a kidney stone in their lifetime.
Get the calcium you need: Getting too little calcium in your diet can cause oxalate levels to rise and cause kidney stones. To prevent this, make sure to take in an amount of calcium appropriate to your age. Ideally, obtain calcium from foods, since some studies have linked taking calcium supplements to kidney stones. 
1 Calcium oxalate: The most common type of kidney stone which is created when calcium combines with oxalate in the urine. 2  Inadequate calcium and fluid intake, as well other conditions, may contribute to their formation. 3  Uric acid: This is another common type of kidney stone. But stones that don't move may cause a back-up of urine in the kidney, ureter, the bladder, or the urethra. This is what causes the pain. Possible causes include drinking too little water, exercise (too much or too little), obesity, weight loss surgery, or eating food with too much salt or sugar.
Kidney stones also are a common condition in which stones form in the kidney and result in pain, bleeding into the urine, and blockage of the ureters, the tubes that conduct urine from the kidney to the bladder. 
There are four main types of stones: 1  Calcium oxalate: The most common type of kidney stone which is created when calcium combines with oxalate in the urine. 2  Inadequate calcium and fluid intake, as well other conditions, may contribute to their formation. 3  Uric acid: This is another common type of kidney stone. But stones that don't move may cause a back-up of urine in the kidney, ureter, the bladder, or the urethra. This is what causes the pain. Possible causes include drinking too little water, exercise (too much or too little), obesity, weight loss surgery, or eating food with too much salt or sugar.
1 Dehydration is a major risk factor for kidney stone formation. 2  Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 3  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones. 1 Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 2  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones. 3  Diet and hereditary factors are also related to stone formation
Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate. 1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 4  Your liver also produces oxalate.
1 Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 4  Your liver also produces oxalate.