The main difference between complete and incomplete proteins is that complete proteins contain all essential amino acids your body requires daily, and incomplete proteins only contain some essential amino acids. Because complete proteins contain all essential amino acids, they are often referred to as high-quality proteins and easily utilized by your body. Sources of Complete Protein. Animal sources of protein are complete proteins, and some plant foods contain all essential amino acids. Sources of complete animal proteins include milk, yogurt, cheese, meat, poultry, fish, seafood and eggs. Soy protein is a plant-based source of high-quality, complete protein
To provide your body with all the necessary amino acids, join two incomplete proteins together. In addition, when preparing a meal, you can pair incomplete protein with a small amount of complete protein. In most diets, a mixture of animal and plant protein is suggested. Usually, vegetable protein (plant-based proteins) is considered incomplete as it lacks one or more of the nine essential amino acids. Incomplete proteins can be combined to make available all of the essential amino acids and form a complete protein. Include both complete and incomplete proteins into your diet.
Complete proteins (also called high-quality proteins) contain all 9 of the essential amino acids. Most animal foods are complete proteins. Incomplete proteins (or low-quality proteins) lack significant amounts of certain essential amino acids. Plant foods (with the exception of soybeans) are incomplete proteins. Two incomplete food protein sources that compensate for each other s inadequate supply of specific essential amino acids are called complementary proteins. Examples of complementary proteins are legumes + grains or legumes + nuts and seeds. 
Incomplete proteins are foods containing low protein or only some of the nine amino acids that you need in your diet. Usually, vegetable protein (plant-based proteins) is considered incomplete as it lacks one or more of the nine essential amino acids. Incomplete proteins can be combined to make available all of the essential amino acids and form a complete protein. Include both complete and incomplete proteins into your diet. Complete proteins hold all the necessary amino acids. Most animal foods, such as meat, poultry, fish, cheese and milk are complete proteins
Complete proteins have all nine essential amino acids. Eggs, cheese, and meat have complete proteins. Incomplete protein sources are low in one or more essential amino acids. Beans and tofu are good but incomplete sources of protein because they contain lower amounts of some essential amino acids.
Incomplete proteins are found in most grains, nuts, seeds, nut butters, green peas and legumes (such as lentils, chick peas, black beans, pinto beans and navy beans). Pairing Incomplete Proteins. You don't have to eat complete proteins to get the essential amino acids your body needs. Because complete proteins contain all essential amino acids, they are often referred to as high-quality proteins and easily utilized by your body. Sources of Complete Protein. Animal sources of protein are complete proteins, and some plant foods contain all essential amino acids. Sources of complete animal proteins include milk, yogurt, cheese, meat, poultry, fish, seafood and eggs. Soy protein is a plant-based source of high-quality, complete protein
A: When you hear that a food contains complete or incomplete proteins, this classification is referring to the kinds of amino acids in that food. Amino acids are the chemical compounds that make up proteins. Think of them like individual Christmas tree lights—when you string them all together you get protein. 
There are two main types of protein: complete and incomplete. Complete proteins contain every essential amino acid. Incomplete proteins lack one or more of the essential amino acids. A complete protein will give your body access to all of the amino acids that it lacks the ability to make itself. Soy is the only non-animal protein that is complete. Incomplete proteins are found in non-animal foods. These foods are generally considered healthy and should be included in a balanced diet. Examples of foods high in incomplete protein include nuts, beans, legumes, rice and grains.