Most people will have no or few symptoms from diverticula. Complications can occur in about 20% of people with diverticulosis. One of these complications is rectal bleeding, called diverticular bleeding, and another is diverticular infection, called diverticulitis. Diverticular Bleeding. Diverticular bleeding occurs with chronic injury to the small blood vessels that are next to the diverticula. Diverticulitis. Diverticulitis occurs when there is inflammation and infection in one or mor
The most common symptoms are left lower quadrant pain, cramping, and change in bowel habits. Because diverticular disease is a chronic disorder that generally alters a patient’s nutritional intake, inspect for malnutrition symptoms such as weight loss, lethargy, brittle nails, and hair loss. Assess vital signs because temperature and pulse elevations are common. A. You have Diverticulosis, which means you have diverticulas (small pouches) on your digestive system. These diverticula are permanent and will not go away. No treatment has been found to prevent complications of diverticular disease.
Diverticulitis, infection and inflammation of diverticula, can occur suddenly and without warning. Symptoms of diverticulitis may include: 1  Alternating diarrhea and constipation. 2  Painful cramps or tenderness in the lower abdomen. 3  Chills or fever. Diverticular Bleeding. Diverticular bleeding occurs with chronic injury to the small blood vessels that are next to the diverticula. Diverticulitis. Diverticulitis occurs when there is inflammation and infection in one or mor
Diverticulitis is a common digestive disease which involves the formation of pouches (diverticula) within the bowel wall. This process is known as diverticulosis, and typically occurs within the large intestine, or colon, although it can occasionally occur in the small intestine as well. Most people with diverticulosis do not have any discomfort or symptoms; however, symptoms may include mild cramps, bloating, and constipation. Other diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and stomach ulcers cause similar problems, so these symptoms do not always mean a person has diverticulosis.
In this article. Diverticular disease consists of three conditions that involve the development of small sacs or pockets in the wall of the colon, including diverticulosis, diverticular bleeding, and diverticulitis. Diverticular Bleeding. Diverticular bleeding occurs with chronic injury to the small blood vessels that are next to the diverticula. Diverticulitis. Diverticulitis occurs when there is inflammation and infection in one or mor
1 Treatment of diverticulosis can include high fiber diet, and anti-spasmodic drugs. 2  When diverticulosis is associated with inflammation and infection the condition is called diverticulitis. 3  Complications of diverticulosis and diverticulitis include rectal bleeding, abdominal infections, and colon obstruction. 1 Share Your Story. 2  Most patients with diverticulosis (diverticular disease) have few or no symptoms. 3  Abdominal pain, constipation, and diarrhea, can occur with diverticulosis, which then may be called diverticular disease. 4  Diverticulosis can be diagnosed with barium X-rays, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, or CT scan.
Diverticulosis, also known as  diverticular disease , is the condition of having diverticula in the colon, which are outpocketings of the colonic mucosa and submucosa through weaknesses of muscle layers in the colon wall. These are more common in the sigmoid colon, which is a common place for increased pressure. 
Diverticula are small, bulging pouches that can form in the lining of your digestive system. They are found most often in the lower part of the large intestine (colon). Diverticula are common, especially after age 40, and seldom cause problems. Sometimes, however, one or more of the pouches become inflamed or infected. That condition is known as diverticulitis (die-vur-tik-yoo-LIE-tis). Diverticulitis can cause severe abdominal pain, fever, nausea and a marked change in your bowel habits. Mild diverticulitis can be treated with rest, changes in your diet and antibiotics. Severe or recurring diverticulitis may require surgery. 1  Symptoms.
Diverticulosis indicates the presence of multiple diverticula and generally implies an absence of symptoms (Fig. 1). Diverticular disease implies any clinical state caused by diverticula, including hemorrhage, inflammation, or their complications. Diverticulitis describes the presence of an inflammatory process associated with diverticula. Its pathogenesis is attributed to genetic and environmental factors (Box 1). The fiber content of the diet plays a large role in the pathogenesis of diverticular disease. Fiber has been found to be protective. Most fiber in the human diet is of plant origin and this type of fiber binds water and salt in the colon, leading to bulkier and more voluminous stools.
Mortality and morbidity are related to complications of diverticulosis such as diverticulitis and lower gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, which occur in 10% to 20% of patients with diverticulosis during their lifetime. A. You have Diverticulosis, which means you have diverticulas (small pouches) on your digestive system. These diverticula are permanent and will not go away. No treatment has been found to prevent complications of diverticular disease.