Modern, rustic and coastal all work with a painted fireplace. Cost: If the bricks are being installed new, your project can cost $2,000 to $5,000 for raw materials and installation. Midcentury living room in San Francisco.
Paint the rest of the brick with your paint color. Brick is porous, so make sure to push the paint into the brick so there are no pinprick holes showing. Apply a second coat if necessary.
Painting your brick fireplace with Brick-Anew gives you a REAL brick look for thousands less than professionals charge. Don't put up with your old, ugly brick anymore. In one afternoon, you can make your fireplace the centerpiece it was meant to be for less than $200 with the Brick-Anew paint kit.
Cost of supplies that may be required to paint brick including: masking tape and paper, surface repair material, solvents and cleanup supplies.
However if you are considering painting the ‘bricks’ on your home then there are a few things you should consider before you break out the spray guns and throw a party! Permanence – The most important word to remember about painting brick is: permanence.
1 The average fireplace installation cost is $2,500 to $5,000, although an authentic brick fireplace constructed by a mason could cost up to $10,000 or more. 2  Installing a prefabricated brick fireplace costs $2,000 to $3,000. 3  A mason-built brick fireplace costs $3,500 to $5,000.
Living room + a little paint = painted brick fireplace. For some reason, people hesitate painting over brick fireplaces. Sure, some historic homes have really beautiful original fireplaces that would be wise to leave alone-but if your brick fireplace has been irritating you, nothing is stopping you.
The actual cost of a brick fireplace may vary depending on your location, the materials used, products selected, and the complexity of the installation. 1  The average fireplace installation cost is $2,500 to $5,000, although an authentic brick fireplace constructed by a mason could cost up to $10,000 or more.
The material you choose for your fireplace will also have an impact on the cost. Material options include brick, stone, stucco and more. If you have a very specific vision for your fireplace, then custom is the way to go.