Campo Viejo. The old Campo Viejo wine cellar, founded in 1967, has given way to the Juan Alcorta Bodega, named after its founder. Located in Logrono, logroño on the old road To, fuenmayor the bodega is built on a plateau planted with vines and has panoramic views of The Ebro valley and The sierra De cantabria. mountains Whole grape clusters are 100% gravity fed, without undergoing any type of pressure, which could adversely affect the quality of the wine. This gentle, painstaking winemaking process makes it possible to obtain smooth, harmonious wines, with lots of concentrated fruit aromas and flavors.
Tasting Notes. Having been making some of Rioja's best loved wines since 1959, the team at Campo Viejo really know how to bring out Tempranillo's best side. This is soft, juicy and fresh with sumptuous redcurrant fruit flavours and a gentle hint of spice and leather. Smashing with bangers and mash
Campo Viejo Winery. The old Campo Viejo wine cellar, founded in 1967, has given way to the Juan Alcorta Bodega, named after its founder. Located in Logrono, logroño on the old road To, fuenmayor the bodega is built on a plateau planted with vines and has panoramic views of The Ebro valley and The sierra De cantabria. mountains This highly regarded area of Spain makes some of the best Tempranillo-based wines in the world. Once the only DOCa (recently joined by Priorat in 2001), Rioja is divided into 3 sub-regions: Rioja Baja, Rioja Alta, Rioja Alavesa. There are 4 red varieties and 3 white varieties allowed in the Rioja DOC.
The Campo Viejo winery is a state-of-the-art complex located in Logrono, a bit south of Bilbao in Northern Spain. Founded in 1959, Campo Viejo is one of the most respected wineries in Spain and a leader in the Rioja region. Campo Viejo’s new winery, an architectural masterpiece, opened in 2001. Of those wines, the Rioja region produces some of the top wines in all of Spain. Campo Viejo Rioja 2010 is an affordable entry-level introduction to the wines of Spain, and Rioja wines, specifically.
The unusual name comes from the block of vineyard next to the original cellar, very old vines that the winemakers called Old Friend - Campo Viejo. This Crianza is 75% tempranillo, 20% granacha and 5% mazuelo. Cherry red with good depth, bright, golden glints. Another example of what good quality affordable wine you can find coming out of Spain. This Tempranillo blend has wonderful red fruit notes, mixed with a touch of spice and freshness that really makes for an enjoyable everynight wine.
Rioja in north-east Spain is one of the world's famous wine growing regions. Tempranillo (tem-prah-nee-yoh) is the signature grape in these parts and this wine is made entirely with this pure fruit driven, soft, velvety and gloriously gluggable grape. It's the third biggest selling wine in the UK, the number one selling red and one of the leading Spanish wine producers globally with around 2 million cases shipped every year. Wow! Whatever Campo Viejo (that's  KAHM-poh VYAY-hoh ) is doing to their grapes back there at their estate in La Rioja, they're on the money!
Located in Logrono, logroño on the old road To, fuenmayor the bodega is built on a plateau planted with vines and has panoramic views of The Ebro valley and The sierra De cantabria. Mountains it is situated right in the heart Of La, rioja the most prestigious growing region In. spain Whole grape clusters are 100% gravity fed, without undergoing any type of pressure, which could adversely affect the quality of the wine. This gentle, painstaking winemaking process makes it possible to obtain smooth, harmonious wines, with lots of concentrated fruit aromas and flavors.
by Lance J. Mayhew |. Spanish wines are some of the finest in the world. Of those wines, the Rioja region produces some of the top wines in all of Spain. Campo Viejo Rioja 2010 is an affordable entry-level introduction to the wines of Spain, and Rioja wines, specifically. Made from 100% Tempranillo grapes (the most famous grape used in Rioja), Campo Viejo Rioja 2010 is fermented in stainless steel tanks before being aged in American oak barrels
View all Campo Viejo Wines. View a map of Rioja wineries (ree-OH-hah). This highly regarded area of Spain makes some of the best Tempranillo-based wines in the world. Once the only DOCa (recently joined by Priorat in 2001), Rioja is divided into 3 sub-regions: Rioja Baja, Rioja Alta, Rioja Alavesa. There are 4 red varieties and 3 white varieties allowed in the Rioja DOC.