But is your trusty petroleum jelly really a cure-all? More importantly, is it as harmless as you think? We enlisted New York-based dermatologist Dr. Alan Dattner, founder of HolisticDermatology.com, and celebrity makeup artist Katey Denno to help us take a closer look. Petroleum jelly, the main ingredient in Vaseline, is a derivative of oil refining. 
Petroleum refining processes are the chemical engineering processes and other facilities used in petroleum refineries (also referred to as oil refineries) to transform crude oil into useful products such as liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), gasoline or petrol, kerosene, jet fuel, diesel oil and fuel oils. 
Best Answer: Petroleum jelly or petrolatum is made by refining a byproduct of oil drilling. Petrolatum is a semi-solid mixture of hydrocarbons, having a melting-point usually ranging from a little below to a few degrees above 100° F (37° C). Petroleum jelly is made by touching-up a byproduct of oil drilling, or some left over products of oil drilling. Vaseline is a well-known brand of petroleum jelly. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Petroleum_j... Cap'n Eridani · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 1. 1 comment. Loading ...
Make Your Own Petroleum {FREE} Jelly. Petroleum jelly is a byproduct of oil drilling, and when you spread it on your lips, you end up eating it, which is essentially the same as drinking gasoline. Add up the amount of lip-gloss the average woman uses (and consumes) over a decade, and it equals 7 pounds. Ever since learning about the dangers of Petroleum Jelly from Dr. Oz, the Vaseline in my bathroom went bye-bye : Petroleum jelly is a byproduct of oil drilling, and when you spread it on your lips, you end up eating it, which is essentially the same as drinking gasoline.
Main Page | See live article | Alphabetical index. Petroleum jelly is a byproduct of the refining of petroleum, made from the residue of petroleum distillation left in the still after all the oil has been vaporized. Vaseline is a registered trade name for a famous brand of petroleum jelly. Petroleum jelly was discovered by Robert Chesebrough in 1859 in Brooklyn, New York. Chesebrough was intrigued by the paraffin-like substance that stuck to the drilling rigs.
It is not a byproduct of oil simply because it is intentionally derived from crude oil, therefore it is a product of oil. The hydrocarbons in oil are refined to make long chai … ns. These chains of molecules are made into polyester which is a type of plastic, then melted and spun into fibers. 1 person found this useful. 
A petrochemical refinery in Grangemouth, Scotland. Petroleum products are materials derived from crude oil (petroleum) as it is processed in oil refineries. Unlike petrochemicals, which are a collection of well-defined usually pure chemical compounds, petroleum products are complex mixtures. The majority of petroleum is converted to petroleum products, which includes several classes of fuels. According to the composition of the crude oil and depending on the demands of the market, refineries can produce different shares of petroleum products. The largest share of oil products is used as energy carriers, i.e. various grades of fuel oil and gasoline.
First, a quick primer on where petroleum products like Vaseline come from, and why they’re not eco-friendly: Petroleum jelly is basically a byproduct of the oil industry. It’s a leftover residue created during the refinery of crude oil, and as such, isn’t a sustainable resource, according to many. 