Social work is a broad profession that encompasses its activities in fields like Health and Mental Health, Social Service Administration, Children and Their Families, Social Work Policy Analysis, Social Justice and Diversity, Forensic and Traumatology, Gerontology...etc. Profesional social work originated in 19th century England, and had its roots in the social and economic upheaval wrought by the Industrial Revolution, in particular the societal struggle to deal with the resultant mass urban-based poverty and its related problems.
Master of Social Work (MSW): What it is and What You Can Do with It. Photo Credit: nullplus / Getty. Social workers who provide therapy and services to individuals and families typically have a master's in social work (MSW) degree. Some social workers seek further training in the form of a doctor of social work (DSW) degree. The DSW is a specialized, degree for social workers who wish to gain advanced training in research, supervision, and policy analysis.
The International Federation of Social Workers says of social work today that. social work is a practice-based profession and an academic discipline that promotes social change and development, social cohesion, and the empowerment and liberation of people. Profesional social work originated in 19th century England, and had its roots in the social and economic upheaval wrought by the Industrial Revolution, in particular the societal struggle to deal with the resultant mass urban-based poverty and its related problems.
Many social workers work directly with clients who are individuals, families or small groups. These social workers help clients cope with problems such as poverty, abuse, addiction, and mental illness by providing counseling, connecting clients with service providers, and empowering clients to meet their own needs. Other social workers choose to work with communities, organizations or governments. These workers advocate for vulnerable populations, fighting to end the inequalities and injustices they see in their communitie
Social workers help people cope with challenges in their lives. They help with a wide range of situations, such as adopting a child or being diagnosed with a terminal illness. Social workers may work with children, people with disabilities, and people with serious illnesses and addictions. $34,750. The median annual wage for social workers was $44,200 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $27,450, and the top 10 percent earned more than $72,980.
Social workers help people solve and cope with problems in their everyday lives. One group of social workers, clinical social workers, also diagnose and treat mental, behavioral, and emotional issues. $34,750. The median annual wage for social workers was $44,200 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $27,450, and the top 10 percent earned more than $72,980.
Social work is a profession that is centred around people-from babies through to older people. The BASW Code of Ethics defines social work using the international definition of social work. Social workers work with individuals and families to help improve outcomes in their lives. 
Social work practice is also strengths-based. Social workers help people or groups identify their problems, determine their skills and capacities, what they are doing well, and how that was accomplished, and then analyze ways that those strengths might be applied to the identified problems. These social workers help clients cope with problems such as poverty, abuse, addiction, and mental illness by providing counseling, connecting clients with service providers, and empowering clients to meet their own needs. Other social workers choose to work with communities, organizations or governments.
Social workers play an important role in the betterment of society as they assist individuals and communities and empower them to find solutions to life’s challenges. Different social work specialties come with specific requirements for education, licensing and first-hand experience serving others. 
Social Work Profession. According to the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) , social work is one of the fastest growing careers in the United States. The profession is expected to grow by 19% between 2012 and 2022. More than 650,000 people currently hold social work degrees. 1 Federal law and the National Institutes of Health recognize social work as one of five core mental health professions. 2  The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs employs more than 10,000 professional social workers. 3  It is one of the largest employers of MSW