The Pharmaceuticals Generic & Specialty industry consists of companies engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of over the counter, prescription and veterinary drugs. The Pharmaceuticals Generic & Specialty industry excludes large drug companies with research and development operations, and wholesalers of medical supplies.
Depomed, Inc. is a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on products to treat pain and other central nervous (CNS) system conditions. 
In broad terms, a specialty pharmacy is a specific type of pharmaceutical delivery system which coordinates delivery and offers comprehensive support in the distribution of drugs which are high cost or complex and utilized to treat complex conditions. While there is no standardized definition of what constitutes a specialty drug, most often the meet the following criteria: 1  the drug is a specialized, high cost product (typically more than $500 per dose or $6000 or more per year). 2  the drug is utilized as a complex therapy for a complex disease.
Specialty Pharmacies are most often focused on the dispensation of specialty drugs. While there is no standardized definition of what constitutes a specialty drug, most often the meet the following criteria: 1  the drug is a specialized, high cost product (typically more than $500 per dose or $6000 or more per year). 2  the drug is utilized as a complex therapy for a complex disease.
A Global Specialty Pharmaceutical Company. At Endo International our specialty branded pharmaceuticals, generic products and over-the-counter medications play an important role in helping millions of patients lead healthier lives. 
The pharmaceutical industry develops, produces, and markets drugs or pharmaceuticals for use as medications. Pharmaceutical companies may deal in generic or brand medications and medical devices. 
Research Overview. This Frost & Sullivan research service, titled Analysis of Top 10 Specialty Pharmaceutical Companies, provides an overview and analysis of key growth drivers, strengths, weakness, opportunities and threats with company profiles. The specialty pharmaceutical market is witnessing consolidation across various tiers of competition, creating larger and more competitive market participants with sufficient resources to compete with “Big-Pharma” companies. Specialty pharmaceutical companies focus on markets with signficant unmet medical need
Definitions Evolving: What is a Specialty Pharmacy. There has been a lot of buzz in the healthcare world lately about “specialty pharmacy” as an opportunity for rapid growth, financial opportunity, and expansive change, however there is some debate as to what exactly constitutes a specialty pharmacy. While there is no standardized definition of what constitutes a specialty drug, most often the meet the following criteria: 1  the drug is a specialized, high cost product (typically more than $500 per dose or $6000 or more per year). 2  the drug is utilized as a complex therapy for a complex disease.