3D Rendering of a Monocyte. Monocytes are a type of white blood cells (leukocytes). They are the largest of all leukocytes. They are part of the innate immune system of vertebrates including all mammals (humans included), birds, reptiles, and fish. Monocytes which migrate from the bloodstream to other tissues will then differentiate into tissue resident macrophages or dendritic cells. Macrophages are responsible for protecting tissues from foreign substances, but are also suspected to be important in the formation of important organs like the heart and brain.
Monocytes are produced by the bone marrow from precursors called monoblasts, bipotent cells that differentiated from hematopoietic stem cells. Monocytes circulate in the bloodstream for about one to three days and then typically move into tissues throughout the body. Monocytes which migrate from the bloodstream to other tissues will then differentiate into tissue resident macrophages or dendritic cells. Macrophages are responsible for protecting tissues from foreign substances, but are also suspected to be important in the formation of important organs like the heart and brain.
Report Abuse. A high level of monocytes could mean a number of things. They're a type of phagocyte-a type of cell found in your blood that 'eats' many types of attacking bacteria and other microorganisms when it matures. High levels could mean that you have an infection as more develop to fight it. 
Our immune system has a key component called the white blood cells, of which there are several different kinds. Monocytes are a type of white blood cell that fights off bacteria, viruses and fungi. Monocytes are the biggest type of white blood cell in the immune system. Originally formed in the bone marrow, they are released into our blood and tissues. When certain germs enter the body, they quickly rush to the site for attack. 
Monocyte. Monocytes are produced by the bone marrow from stem cell precursors called monoblasts. Monocytes circulate in the bloodstream for about one to three days and then typically move into tissues throughout the body. They make up three to eight percent of the leukocytes in the blood. Monocyte under a light microscope (40x) from a peripheral blood smear surrounded by red blood cells. Monocytes are a type of white blood cell, part of the human body 's immune system. They are usually identified in stained smears by their large two-lobed nucleus.
A monocyte (pictured below) is a large type of white blood cell with one large, smooth, well-defined, indented, slightly folded, oval, kidney-shaped, or notched nucleus (the cell s control center). White blood cells help protect the body against diseases and fight infections. 
Monocytes are white blood cells that are common to the blood of all vertebrates and they help the immune system to function properly. There are a number of reasons for a high monocyte count, which can also be called monocytosis. Some of the reasons can include stress, viral fevers, inflammation and organ necrosis. A physician may order a monocyte blood count test to check for raised levels of monocytes. There are a number of reasons for this test, from a simple health check up to people suffering from heart attacks and leukemia. Complications with the blood and cancer are two other reasons that this test may be performed.
Monocytes are considered the largest white blood cell. These cells are part of the innate immune system. Monocytes also play important roles in the immune function of the body. These cells are often found when doing a stained smear and appear large kidney shaped. Many of these re found in the spleen area. 
This is taken directly from-http://www.wisegeek.com/what-are-monocytes.htm#. Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell which play a role in immune system function. Depending on a patient's level of health, monocytes make up between one and three percent of the total white blood cells in the body. For example, if monocytes are elevated because of an inflammation caused by a viral infection, the patient would be given medication to kill the virus and bring down the inflammation. Typically, when a monocyte count is requested, the lab will also run other tests on the blood to generate a complete picture.