“We have had earthquakes in Florida — and we could have one today — but it’s not as likely as other places,” Smith said. Earthquakes tend to occur in regions near the boundaries of underground plates or at weaknesses in the plates themselves, Smith said. But earthquakes are not unheard of in Florida. And if Smith had been here on tomorrow’s date 121 years ago, his prognosis would have been different. Smith and other geologists agree that the largest earthquake ever recorded in Florida shook the state on Jan. 12, 1879.
Florida does not get as many major earthquakes because it is not near a plate boundary. Florida may feel the effects of an earthquakes that came from somewhere else, but the chances of having a major earthquakes aren't as high as say, California would. There are very deep cracks in the stone structure of the Earth, known as fault lines, that are involved in earthquakes, and several fault lines run through California; Florida … does not have fault lines (although it does have hurricanes).
Earthquake History. Although Florida is not usually considered to be a state subject to earthquakes, several minor shocks have occurred there. Only one of these caused damage. Additional shocks of doubtful seismic origin also are listed in earthquake documents. The three Florida shocks of doubtful seismic origin rumbled through the Everglades-La Belle-Fort Myers area in July 1930, Tampa in December 1940, and the Miami-Everglades-Fort Myers area in January 1942. Most authorities attribute these incidents to blasting, but a few contend they were seismic.
Earthquakes occur in many regions of the world. There have been earthquakes in Florida, but there has been several shocks there. Only one was big enough to cause damage. It was in January 1879, in St. Augustine, plaster was … torn off the walls and items were knocked off the shelf. There are very deep cracks in the stone structure of the Earth, known as fault lines, that are involved in earthquakes, and several fault lines run through California; Florida … does not have fault lines (although it does have hurricanes).
Earthquakes occur in many regions of the world. There have been earthquakes in Florida, but there has been several shocks there. Only one was big enough to cause damage. It was in January 1879, in St. Augustine, plaster was … torn off the walls and items were knocked off the shelf. Florida has experienced numerous earthquakes throughout its history, but they are generally quite mild, resulting in little damage or injuries. The link below gives you a his … tory of recorded Florida earthquakes.
Florida has, in historic times, “felt” the effects of about two dozen “seismic events”. Many of those events are described in Florida Geological Survey Open File Report Number 40, Earthquake and Seismic History of Florida, available online at: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/UF00001039/00001. Earthquakes are also associated with volcanic activity. Florida is situated on the trailing (or passive) margin of the North American Plate while California is located on its active margin. The active margin is bounded by faults that generate earthquakes when there is movement along them.
Florida is not located in an earthquake zone, in fact Florida and North Dakota have recorded the fewest number of earthquakes in the US since records began. Edit. Share to: 1  5 Nature Tour Options for Your Visit to Florida These Florida nature tours offer a prime opportunity to explore the surrounding areas. Florida has experienced numerous earthquakes throughout its history, but they are generally quite mild, resulting in little damage or injuries. The link below gives you a his … tory of recorded Florida earthquakes.
Report Abuse. Everywhere has the potential for earthquakes, although Florida and lots of places on the east coast don't have them anywhere near as often as California. Atlanta, Georgia just had one a couple weeks ago, although it was only about 3.0 magnitude. sun_shinevt · 7 years ago.