Published 9:50 pm, Wednesday, October 26, 2011. SAN ANTONIO-Gulf oyster lovers may have to suck it up and settle for oysters from other regions to get their fix. What's considered the largest red tide outbreak in the state since 2000 has postponed indefinitely the opening of the Texas oyster season. And without a break in the drought to flush the waterways, the season may be wiped out altogether. This is a major blow.
The season will open on November 1, but the oysters are going to be skimpy in Galveston Bay, says Texas Parks & Wildlife oyster fishery manager Lance Robinson. The most productive oyster reefs in Texas will be in the Aransas Bay system, especially the Copano Bay area west of Rockport, Robinson reported. Image: Robb Walsh. Judging from the oysters I saw on the shucking line at Jeri's Seafood last Friday, early season oysters from Galveston Bay are going to be better than usual when the season opens November 1. That's good news for Houston oyster lovers. The bad news is oyster availability is going to be very poor
Texas oysters once were the second-largest seafood commodity in Texas before 2008's Hurricane Ike destroyed thousands of acres of reef and production was cut in half. In 2009, Parks and Wildlife estimates, 2.7 million pounds of oysters were harvested in Texas, worth about $9.4 million. What's considered the largest red tide outbreak in the state since 2000 has postponed indefinitely the opening of the Texas oyster season. And without a break in the drought to flush the waterways, the season may be wiped out altogether. This is a major blow.
s far as taste goes, it's a superlative season for the Texas Gulf oyster. They've been consistently good all year, said Tracy Woody of Jeri's Seafood in Smith Point. They're as good or better than years past.. 
Texas Parks & Wildlife has announced the opening of most oystering areas in Texas. The red tide has subsided and oysters from Texas bays are passing FDA testing to ensure no trace of the bacteria remain. Texas oyster fisherman in the southern San Antonio bay system began oystering in late January. Levi Goode reported that Goode Company Seafood was already serving Texas oysters last weekend. 
There may be no Gulf oysters. Back to Gallery. Gulf oyster lovers may have to suck it up and settle for oysters from other regions to get their fix. What's considered the largest red tide outbreak in the state since 2000 has postponed indefinitely the opening of the Texas oyster season. 
Last season was a strong one for Texas, Robinson said, because production shifted to the state when oyster harvests in Louisiana and Mississippi fell off. Texas sold about $18.6 million worth of oysters in 2010-2011, Robinson calculated. Officials are hoping for a recovery now that algae counts both in the water and in the tissue of oysters have fallen to levels the Texas Department of State Health Services deem safe. Texas oyster lovers: get ready for your shuck fix. The largest red tide outbreak in the state's history is slowly receding, finally opening many Texas oyster bays that were closed for months.
more. Texas oyster season may be closed, but locals buying from Louisiana. Back to Gallery. Add red tide conditions encroaching on Galveston Bay to the ever-growing list of ills visited on the region by the devastating Texas drought. Health officials have closed all oyster harvesting from Texas coastal waters due to the algae bloom known as red tide. The Texas Department of State Health Services on Wednesday announced the ban covers commercial and recreational harvesting of oysters, clams and mussels.
The Gulf sustainably produces more than 500 million pounds of in-shell oysters each year. Though oysters vary in size depending on where they're harvested, the Eastern oyster found in the Gulf is typically larger in size (up to 8 inches across) than oysters found elsewhere in the US. The Gulf's warm waters are the perfect place for oysters to thrive and grow quickly. You'll find oysters living together in different oyster reefs across the Gulf – from the Apalachicola Bay in Florida to the Galveston Bay in Texas. Oysters are often served raw or deep-fried – though they're also delicious in soups, stews, and pasta. 