Ham Cindy 2015-04-21T07:16:00+00:00. How long does ham last? The shelf life of ham depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method and how it was stored. Ham, just like bacon, is a cured meat prepared from the hind thighs of a hog. The rear of the pig is thick and flavorful. It is the curing process that makes a ham, it is fully cooked. You can help keep it fresh longer by storing it in your refrigerator immediately after use. Once prepared, it should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. For a long-term option, you can freeze your ham while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container.
With that, I am assuming that when you say ham you mean ham that is salty tasting and typically pink in color. The word ham actually referrs to the part of the pig that a ham comes from-the butt, hip, or leg of the pig. Anyway, a fully cooked smoked (salty) ham should be good for at least a week in your fridge. Watch for signs of spoilage like a slime coating on the meat itself (not the fat), when in bright light-a metalic shiny substance usually green or silver in color (this is the beginning of mold), or a change in od
The following foods will keep 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator: 1  Fully cooked ham slices. 2  Cooked meat and meat casseroles. 3  Cooked chicken and chicken casseroles. 4  Pizza. In addition, it's always important to get the food in the refrigerator within 2 hours after it's cooked or sooner if it's cooled enough. If food has been left out for longer than 2 hours, don't put it back in the refrigerator and don't keep it for later.
Cooked ham can be kept in the refrigerator for about 3 to 4 days  and should be eaten within that time frame or it should be frozen.  If it hasn't been eaten or frozen with … in the time frame, then it  should be discarded. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . 3 people found this useful.
Refrigerate the Honey-Baked Ham and Turkey Breast as soon as you receive it. in the refrigerator the Honey-Baked Ham will stay fresh for 7 to 10 days. Another Answer: If you keep it well sealed and refrigerated at a pretty cold temperature you can keep it there up to two weeks. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . 3 people found this useful.
Keep leg ham in a Ham Bag or a damp tea-towel in the fridge-soak the bag in a mix of 1 litre water to 2 tablespoons white vinegar then squeeze out the excess liquid, leaving the bag damp. Repeat the process every few days. Do not wrap hams firmly, allow for some air circulation (to avoid sweating). 
purseglove_MA_F_67Three days for a cooked ham in the refrigerator and you wonder if it is fit to eat and yet you are feeding said pork product to your dogs? Whats wrong with this picture? Post # 3. I just used up the last of the ham and it had been in the fridge for a week. I'm usually leary about keeping leftovers for more than a couple of days, but I figured the ham is salted and cured so it should be okay for a few additional days. Color, smell, and texture will tell you alot.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . 3 people found this useful.
Thawed a couple of days in fridge, then cooked low and slow to heat up and glaze. Now it's one week later and still lots of leftovers ! Burger's instructions state ham is good for 28 days in fridge, then freeze. 