Myocardial infarction (heart attack). This reduction in blood flow through heart blood vessels causes the death of heart muscle cells. Though similar to angina chest pain, a heart attack is usually a more severe, crushing pain usually in the center or left side of the chest and is not relieved by rest. Sweating, nausea, shortness of breath, or severe weakness may accompany the pain. Myocarditis. Although not the only cause of chest pain, these heart problems are common causes: Coronary Artery Disease, or CAD. A blockage in the heart blood vessels that reduces blood flow and oxygen to the heart muscle itself.
Chest pain may also be caused by problems in your lungs, esophagus, muscles, ribs, or nerves, for example. Some of these conditions are serious and life threatening. Others are not. If you have unexplained chest pain, the only way to confirm its cause is to have a doctor evaluate you. Although not the only cause of chest pain, these heart problems are common causes: Coronary Artery Disease, or CAD. A blockage in the heart blood vessels that reduces blood flow and oxygen to the heart muscle itself.
Chest pain is discomfort and/or soreness in or around the chest. In general, chest pain can be divided into heart-related chest pain (cardiac chest pain) and chest pain that is not from a heart condition (non-cardiac chest pain). 
This can cause pain known as angina. It's a symptom of heart disease but typically does not cause permanent damage to the heart. It is, though, a sign that you are a candidate for a heart attack at some point in the future. The chest pain may spread to your arm, shoulder, jaw, or back. Although not the only cause of chest pain, these heart problems are common causes: Coronary Artery Disease, or CAD. A blockage in the heart blood vessels that reduces blood flow and oxygen to the heart muscle itself.
There are many causes of chest pain. One is angina which results from inadequate oxygen supply to the heart muscle. Angina can be caused by coronary artery disease or spasm of the coronary arteries. Chest pain can also be due to a heart attack (coronary occlusion) and other important diseases. Do not try to ignore chest pain and work (or play) through it.. Chest pain is a warning to seek medical attention
Chest pain can be a serious, life-threatening symptom and is the classic symptom of a heart attack. Chest pain is often associated with a heart attack and other types of heart and cardiovascular disease, but it can also occur with a wide variety of other diseases, disorders and conditions. Chest pain includes any type of pain or discomfort that occurs between your upper belly area and your lower neck. Chest pain can occur in any age group or population and may be described as chest tightness, chest pressure, or a feeling of burning or fullness in the chest.
In general, chest discomfort related to a heart attack or another heart problem may be described by or associated with one or more of the following: 1  Pressure, fullness or tightness in your chest. 2  Crushing or searing pain that radiates to your back, neck, jaw, shoulders and arms — particularly your left arm. However, chest pain that is less likely due to a heart problem is more often associated with: 1  A sour taste or a sensation of food re-entering your mouth. 2  Trouble swallowing. 3  Pain that gets better or worse when you change your body position.
It can also be one of the many common symptoms of acid reflux. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) related chest discomfort is often referred to as non-cardiac chest pain (NCCP), according to the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG). 
Angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) is chest pain or discomfort that occurs if an area of your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Angina may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The pain also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. Angina isn't a disease; it's a symptom of an underlying heart problem. Angina usually is a symptom of coronary heart disease (CHD). CHD is the most common type of heart disease in adults.