The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (or OBRA-93) was a federal law that was enacted by the 103rd United States Congress and signed into law by President Bill Clinton. It has also been referred to, unofficially, as the Deficit Reduction Act of 1993. Part XIII, which dealt with taxes and is also called the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993. 1 The Act created new brackets of 35% for income from $10 million to $15 million, 38% for income from $15 million to $18.33 million, and 35% for income above $18.33 million. 2  The 2.9% Medicare tax previously was capped to only apply to the first $135,000 of income.
OBRA. In 1987 President Reagan signed that year’s Omnibus Budge Reconciliation Act (OBRA). That year the OBRA included the Federal Nursing Home Reform Act, which was designed to assure quality in nursing homes throughout the country. The Act applies to all skilled nursing facilities that are funded by Medicare or Medicaid. 
Ten years have passed since the United States was attacked by Al-Qaeda terrorists on September 11, 2001. The event was a defining moment in U.S. history. After it was discovered that the attacks were orchestrated by Al-Qaeda, the information sparked intense debate in the political world. Former President George W. Bush decided to pass a large amount of U.S. legislation to strengthen U.S. National Security.
We wondered if in fact, Obama has made that many changes in the law. Graves’ office pointed us to a letter from the Congressional Research Service, the nonpartisan think tank for Congress. The Congressional Research Service review listed 19 times the Affordable Care Act changed since it was passed in 2010. The report counted 14 public laws and five administrative actions that made a variety of modifications to the law. The Medicare prescription drug benefit, passed under President George W. Bush, was changed several times after its initial passage. Both that law and the recent health care law lay a government program on top of a complex private market system, said Ted Marmor, a professor of health policy at Yale University.
The American lexicon was one of the things that changed drastically in the months and years after the attack. Among the words or phrases (9/11 being one of them) that entered everyday language: al-Qaida, Taliban, ground zero, radicalism, extremism, anthrax and the Axis of Evil. 
By our count at the Galen Institute, more than 51 significant changes have been made to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, at least 32 that the Obama administration has made unilaterally, 17 that Congress has passed and the president has signed, and two by the Supreme Court. 
The bill then passed on a party-line vote of 60 to 39 the next day. Soon after the Senate passed the Affordable Care Act, Scott Brown was elected to take Ted Kennedy’s seat and the Democrats consequently lost their filibuster proof 60 votes in the Senate. 
The bill accomplishing that function in 1987 was entitled the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 or “OBRA ‘87.” The separate Federal Nursing Home Reform Act along with many other separate bills was “rolled into” one bill to insure final passage of all the elements. OBRA has changed the care and lives of nursing home residents across America. There have been significant improvements in the comprehensiveness of care planning. Anti-psychotic drug use declined by 28-36% and physical restraint use was reduced by approximately 40%.