Eukaryotic cells have a nucleus and membrane-bound organelles (such  as chloroplasts) - Prokaryotic cells have neither of these. Eukaryotic cells have a membrane-bound nucleus but prokaryotic cells don't!   The DNA in the Prokaryotic cell is in a singe loop but the DNA in the eukaryotic cell is every … where.   Prokaryotic cells don't have membrane-bound organelles. 5 people found this useful.
In general, prokaryotic cells are those that do not have a membrane-bound nucleus. In fact pro-karyotic is Greek for before nucleus. Besides bacteria, the cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) are a major group of prokaryotes. All living things are composed of cells which are classified as either prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. The different cell types have many things in common. Enger & Ross's perspective of the common characteristics lists: 1  Cell membranes. 2  Cytoplasm. 3  Genetic material.
Organelles are simply membrane-bound compartments within a cell, such as the nucleus, mitochondria, chloroplasts, golgi, and endoplasmic reticulum. You are a eukaryote. Your cells are eukaryotic. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, including a nucleus. Eukaryotes can be single-celled or multicelled, such as you, me, plants, fungi, and insects. Bacteria are an example of prokaryotes. Prokaryotic cells do not contain a nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelle. 
1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells. The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA
1 Both cell types have many, many ribosomes, but the ribosomes of the eukaryotic cells are larger and more complex than those of the prokaryotic cell. 2  Ribosomes are made out of a special class of RNA molecules (ribosomal RNA, or rRNA) and a specific collection of different proteins. Some things which seem to be differences aren't. For example, the prokaryotic cell has a cell wall, and this animal cell does not. However, many kinds of eukaryotic cells do have cell walls. Despite all of these similarities, the differences are also clear.
The interior of eukaryotic cells is generally divided into many specialized compartments by internal membranes (membranes separate from the plasma membrane) and membrane-bound organelles (organelles completely surrounded by membranes). Usually, prokaryotic cells lack internal membranes and membrane-bound organelles. In addition, the DNA of eukaryotic cells is enclosed within a membrane-bound nucleus, while the DNA of prokaryotic cells is located in the cytoplasm. During this lab, you will use the brightfield microscope to examine and compare the features of several types of prokaryotic cells, and several types of eukaryotic cells. 
Eukaryotic cells are large, advanced and multicellular. They do contain membrane-bound organelles (plants contain a large vacuole and chloroplasts) and do have a distinct nucleus (the nucleus is surrounded by a nuclear membrane and the DNA is therefore cut off from the cytoplasm). Eukaryotic cells may contain a cell wall-only plant cells though (made from cellulose). 
Here's a simple visual comparison between a prokaryotic cell and a eukaryotic cell: This particular eukaryotic cell happens to be an animal cell, but the cells of plants, fungi and protists are also eukaryotic. Despite their apparent differences, these two cell types have a lot in common. Some things which seem to be differences aren't. For example, the prokaryotic cell has a cell wall, and this animal cell does not. However, many kinds of eukaryotic cells do have cell walls. Despite all of these similarities, the differences are also clear.
All cells, whether they are prokaryotic or eukaryotic, have some common features. The common features of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: 1  DNA, the genetic material contained in one or more chromosomes and located in a nonmembrane bound nucleoid region in prokaryotes and a membrane-bound nucleus in eukaryotes.