Introduction. A pulmonary embolism is a blockage in the pulmonary artery, the blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the lungs. This blockage – usually a blood clot – is potentially life-threatening because it can prevent blood from reaching your lungs.
A pulmonary embolism is a part of a blood clot that travels to the lungs. The most common cause of a pulmonary embolism is a blood clot (thrombus) in a large leg vein of the leg that breaks off and travels to the lungs (embolus). An embolus may be from clots in other parts of the body. Or they may be made up of other solids, liquids, or gases that travel to the lungs. Prevention of pulmonary embolism. An effective way to prevent a blood clot in the lungs is to prevent blood clots from forming in other parts of the body. This is especially important during hospitalization. Methods include: Medicine. Anticoagulants and/or aspirin are often given to prevent blood clots.
The blockage usually is caused by a blood clot that travels to the lung from a vein in the leg. A clot that forms in one part of the body and travels in the bloodstream to another part of the body is called an embolus (EM-bo-lus). PE is a serious condition that can: 1  Damage part of your lung because of a lack of blood flow to your lung tissue. 2  Cause low oxygen levels in your blood. 3  Damage other organs in your body because of a lack of oxygen.
Pulmonary embolism is the sudden blockage of a major blood vessel (artery) in the lung, usually by a blood clot. In most cases, the clots are small and are not deadly, but they can damage the lung. But if the clot is large and stops blood flow to the lung, it can be deadly. Quick treatment could save your life or reduce the risk of future problems. The most common symptoms are: 1  Sudden shortness of breath. 2  Sharp chest pain that is worse when you cough or take a deep breath. 3  A cough that brings up pink, foamy mucus. If you have symptoms like these, you need to see a doctor right away, especially if they are sudden and severe. In most cases, pulmonary embolism is caused by a blood clot in the leg that breaks loose and travels to the lungs. A blood clot in a vein close to the skin is not likely to cause problems. But having blood clots in deep veins (deep vein thrombosis) can lead to pulmonary embolism
Pulmonary embolism or blood clots in the lungs is a problem which occurs when one or even more arteries in the lungs are blocked. In many cases, blood clots in the lungs are caused by clots of blood that flow to your lungs from another area of the body – most frequently, your legs. Blood clots in the lungs can happen in people who are otherwise healthy.
A pulmonary embolus is a blockage of an artery in the lungs by fat, air, blood clot, or tumor cells. Venous thrombo-embolism; Lung blood clot; Blood clot-lung; Embolus; Tumor embolus. Causes. Pulmonary emboli are most often caused by blood clots in the veins, especially veins in the legs or in the pelvis (hips). The most common cause of a pulmonary embolism is a blood clot in the veins of the legs, called a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Many clear up on their own, though some may cause severe illness or even death.
Pulmonary Embolism. When a blood clot forms in a blood vessel somewhere in the body, part of it can break off and travel to the lungs causing a pulmonary embolism (PE). This can cut off the flow of blood. PE is a medical emergency and may cause death. Prevention of pulmonary embolism. An effective way to prevent a blood clot in the lungs is to prevent blood clots from forming in other parts of the body. This is especially important during hospitalization. Methods include: Medicine. Anticoagulants and/or aspirin are often given to prevent blood clots.
A pulmonary embolism (PE) is a blood clot in the lung. The clot usually forms in smaller vessels in the leg, pelvis, arms, or heart, but occasionally the clot can be large. When a clot forms in the large veins of the legs or arms, it is referred to as a deep venous thrombosis (DVT). 
A pulmonary embolism is a blood clot that occurs in the lungs. A pulmonary embolism can damage part of the lung due to restricted blood flow, decrease oxygen levels in the blood, and damage other organs. Large or multiple blood clots can be fatal. Symptoms of a pulmonary embolism depend on the size of the clot and where it lodges in the lung. The most common symptom of a pulmonary embolism is shortness of breath. This may be gradual or sudden. Other symptoms of a pulmonary embolism include: 1  anxiety.