Rub the chicken both inside and out with the garlic rosemary blend and place in the roasting pan. Place the pan in the oven and roast the chicken for 40 to 50 minutes, or until the juices run clear. To test this, insert a thermometer in the thickest part of a leg. It should register at 160 degrees internal temperature. Remove the chicken from the oven and allow to cool for 10 to 15 minutes before carving. 
Kitchen Fact: The safe internal temperature for cooked chicken is 165° Fahrenheit (75° Celsius). A meat or instant-read thermometer is your best bet for determining the temperature of your chicken, and if you're cooking a whole bird, it should be inserted into the thickest part of the thigh but not touching bone. 165 degrees Fahrenheit is the safe internal temperature for both the white meat and dark meat. If you don't have a thermometer, an easy visual clue is that all the juices that come from the chicken should run clear and not be pink.
If you handle chicken properly, but cook it to a lower temperature, you may be exposing yourself to a very slight risk of food poisoning, but eating consistently tasty chicken. We try never to roast a chicken beyond 160°F in the breast, but that s our choice. This goes to the very heart of the liberal/conservative debate  and, as you can imagine, it s not pretty. Our government says that you should cook a whole chicken until the temperature measured in the thigh is 180°F (82°C). If you cook chicken pieces, the government says, the thigh, wings, and drumsticks should be 180°F, while the breast should reach 170°F (77°C)
Set the oven to 350º F, but start checking the internal temperature at 35 minutes, realizing it could take well over an hour. Forget the notion that the time and temperature estimations for doneness is the holy grail. Sure it’s much easier to cook this way, but also a great way to get over or under cooked chicken. You’ve all seen those directions in your roast chicken recipes: “Roast until Done.” Gee, thanks for all the help. The same directions can be found in recipes for grilled chicken, sauteed, pan fried or any other way there is to cook this favorite bird.
1. Preheat oven ... meat on the chicken. Mash together ... a roasting pan. Roast 45 minutes, basting ... and the internal temperature of thigh reaches ... in the vegetable section). 
Directions. Let chicken and 1 tablespoon butter stand at room temperature for 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Remove and discard the plastic pop-up timer from chicken if there is one. Remove the giblets and excess fat from the chicken cavity. Place in the oven, and roast until skin is deep golden brown and crisp and the juices run clear when pierced, about 1 1/2 hours. When chicken seems done, insert an instant-read thermometer into the breast, then the thigh.
Press the read button to gauge the temperature. A whole chicken is done when the inner temperature reads 155 to 157 degrees Fahrenheit. The chicken breast is done when the inner temperature reads 162 to 163 degrees. Cover the bird loosely with aluminum foil and let it rest for 10 to 15 minutes. During the resting period, the bird's temperature should rise to 165 F. Slice the bird after it has rested. 
Temperature Check. Cooking to the proper temperature is the most critical step. Insert a thermometer into a meaty part of the leg (avoiding the bone). When the temperature reaches 165°, pull the bird from the oven. Let rest 10 minutes. View Recipe: Asian-Glazed Chicken Thighs. Kitchen Tip: Thigh meat is forgiving, even if overcooked. In fact, it becomes more tender when cooked to at least 160°
Keep carryover cooking in mind when you roast any sort of meat, and allow for it in your temperature readings. For example, when roasting a whole chicken, take it out of the oven when the breast reads an internal temperature of 155º F-157º F, cover it and let it rest, allowing the temperature to rise to 165º F. You’ve all seen those directions in your roast chicken recipes: “Roast until Done.” Gee, thanks for all the help. The same directions can be found in recipes for grilled chicken, sauteed, pan fried or any other way there is to cook this favorite bird.