fluc·tu·ant. adj. 1. Subject to change or variation: variable: fluctuant oil prices. 2. Medicine Capable of being moved or compressed. Used of an abnormal mass such as a tumor or abscess. 
fluctuant. adjective. 1  Subject to change or variation: variable: fluctuant oil prices. 2  Medicine Capable of being moved or compressed. 3  Used of an abnormal mass such as a tumor or abscess. 4  Moving in waves. adjective. 1  Subject to change or variation: variable: fluctuant oil prices. 2  Medicine Capable of being moved or compressed. 3
From Latin flūctuāns, flūctuant- , present participle of flūctuāre, to fluctuate; see fluctuate. adjective. 1  Subject to change or variation: variable: fluctuant oil prices. 2  Medicine Capable of being moved or compressed. 3  Used of an abnormal mass such as a tumor or abscess. 4  Moving in waves. adjective. 1  Subject to change or variation: variable: fluctuant oil prices. 2  Medicine Capable of being moved or compressed. 3
Dorlands Medical Dictionary says it&#39s Graves&#39 disease-note the apostrophe after the &#34s&#3. Subject: Dorlands Medical Dictionary says it&#39s Graves&#39 disease-note the apostrophe after the &#34s&#34 nm. : bedsore.. Subject: bedsore .. and also Stedman&#39s. Thanks for the input! pleural of decubitus is decubitus in Dorlands Medical Dictionary. I have always been typing decubiti. Subject: pleural of decubitus is decubitus in Dorlands Medical Dictionary. I have always been typing decubiti as the pleural.
1 From where he lay on the end of the dock, the river was like fluctuant diamond-paned glass of two colors, olive green and steel blue, leaded together by wavering white stitches of sun. Fluctuating; unstable. Example sentences. 1  From where he lay on the end of the dock, the river was like fluctuant diamond-paned glass of two colors, olive green and steel blue, leaded together by wavering white stitches of sun. 2  What matters is their interpretability, the meanings they attract, their fluctuant interpretive magnetism
Literary usage of Fluctuant. Below you will find example usage of this term as found in modern and/or classical literature: 1. An exposition of the Creed by John Pearson (1843). Such is the fluctuant condition of human generation, and of those relations which arise from thence, that he which is this day a son, the next may prove a .... 2. 
fluctuation. noun change, shift, swing, variation, instability, alteration, wavering, oscillation, alternation, vacillation, unsteadiness, inconstancy Don't worry about tiny fluctuations in your weight. 
Fluctuant. A term used to describe the movement within a swelling when it is examined by touch. It is a sign that the swelling contains fluid. The term is often used to describe an abscess. Online Medical Dictionary: Your essential reference to over 5000 medical terms. &nbsp. A term used to describe the movement within a swelling when it is examined by touch. It is a sign that the swelling contains fluid. The term is often used to describe an abscess.