Appendix. Extending from the inferior end of the large intestine’s cecum, the human appendix is a narrow pouch of tissue whose resemblance to a worm inspired its alternate name, vermiform (worm-like) appendix. 
Location of Appendix. The appendix is located in the right lower quadrant (RLQ) of the abdomen and more specifically within the right iliac (inguinal) region. As a long pouch with an average length of 11 centimeters (about 4.5 inches), the location of the entire appendix cannot be isolated to a specific spot. Appendix Pain Causes. It is important to remember that the appendix is part of the gut. Therefore any disease of the gut, specifically those affecting the end of the small intestine or the beginning of the large intestine has the potential to involve the appendix as well.
Appendix Location-Where is Your Appendix. Appendix, which is located in the lower right quadrant of the abdominal region has generated a lot of confusion and controversies among researchers. This article tries to answer some questions by positing the exact appendix location and its utility in the human body. Advertisement. Lower right quadrant in abdomen is the exact location of appendix in human body. In other words, if you divide your stomach in four regions, then appendix is located in the lower region on the right side. In human body, appendix falls on the Ileocecal junction, meaning the point where ileum, a part of small intestine meets the cecum from colon
1 Your appendix is located at the end of your large intestine. 2  It is normally located in the lower right quarter of the abdomen. 3  Checking my scar... 4  It is (or should I say was) on the lower right side of the abdomen, about half way between the top of the right hip bone and the belly button. Your appendix is at the Ileocecul junction, which is where the ileum from your small intestine and the cecum from your colon meet. It is located on the right lower quadrant of your abdomen. Additional contributor opinions:
The human appendix averages 9 cm in length but can range from 2 to 20 cm. The diameter of the appendix is usually between 7 and 8 mm. The longest appendix ever removed measured 26 cm from a patient in Zagreb, Croatia. The appendix is usually located in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen, near the right hip bone. The base of the appendix is located 2 cm beneath the ileocecal valve that separates the large intestine from the small intestine. 
The location of the appendix is in the lower right quadrant of your abdome n. If you place your hand on your abdomen with the tip of your little finger just touching your pelvic bone and your thumb at your navel, your appendix is right under there usually about where your middle finger lands. 
Additional contributor opinions:The appendix is located at the lower right quadrant of the abdomen and it is connected to the cecum which is part of the large intestine. The cecum is a pouch at the beginning of the large intestine and not the end, the end is the anus. 
1 The appendix is located at the lower right quadrant of the abdomen and it is connected to the cecum which is part of the large intestine. 2  The cecum is a pouch at the beginning of the large intestine and not the end, the end is the anus. Your appendix is at the Ileocecul junction, which is where the ileum from your small intestine and the cecum from your colon meet. It is located on the right lower quadrant of your abdomen. Additional contributor opinions: