Confidence votes 12. GenelleBabee: Most people consider their sense of sight, as more important. Yes, the loss of sight is a tragedy, but life can go on. Loss of hearing, is just as bad but you can adjust. Loss your sense of smell, you will not smell but still get by.
GenelleBabee: Most people consider their sense of sight, as more important. Yes, the loss of sight is a tragedy, but life can go on. Loss of hearing, is just as bad but you ca … n adjust. Loss your sense of smell, you will not smell but still get by.
Lose your sense of smell and food will be flavorless, but you can get by. Loss of hearing, too, is a great loss, but the loss can be adjusted to. And few people's lives are threatened by the loss of the sense of taste.
The other senses of taste, touch, and smell also helped people survive. Many people think that sight is the most important sense. Early humans would have run right into danger without their sense of sight. Even today, it is hard for most of us to imagine living without ou
Report Abuse. 1.The traditional five senses in human kind are the senses of vision, hearing, taste, and smell, and touch. In medicine, the special senses are the first four of these; touch is specifically excluded as a special sense. Instead, the various aspects of touch (pain, heat, pressure) are all categorized as somatic senses. 2. touch is the most important, because it give us the sense of pain, heat, pressure which are important to protect our self from any dangerous situation & also for normal life.
Anonymous said... Touch is most important because all 5 senses are the sense of touch. Sight is the tissues in your eye being touched by light. Hearing is tissues in your ear being touched by vibrating air. Taste is the tissues on your tongue being touched by the chemical blend that is food and drink.
I love all senses. They're all very important. However, for me, hearing is the utmost important. I listen and I learn, understand and obey. An unfortunate person with no senses at all but hearing, may benefit more than other unfortunate people that are not deaf, in a lot of circumstances.