Medical School. Attending medical school is the first step of specialized medical training to become a neurologist. On average, medical school takes four years to complete, with the first two focusing on coursework and the last two spanning rotations through medical specialties. An undergraduate degree, especially one with a scientific focus, will prepare a potential neurologist for admission medical school. A pre-med undergraduate will spend about four years at university, depending on the requirements of the individual school and the student's course load.
As a neurology resident, you will be practicing neurology under the guidance of more senior neurologists. You spend three or four years in a neurology residency, at which point you will be ready to start your own practice. You will also prepare to become a board-certified neurologist while completing your residency. An undergraduate degree, especially one with a scientific focus, will prepare a potential neurologist for admission medical school. A pre-med undergraduate will spend about four years at university, depending on the requirements of the individual school and the student's course load.
Earning a bachelor's degree is the first step toward becoming a neurologist. There is no specific major required for undergraduate study; however, aspiring neurologists may benefit from concentrating their studies in biological sciences, chemistry, physics or pre-med to meet admission requirements for medical school. Aspiring neurologists are required to earn a Doctor of Medicine degree by attending medical school. Most medical school programs last four years, with the first two years typically covering the basics of human anatomy and physiology. Courses may also delve into nutrition, immunology and ethics.
Step 2: Complete a Medical School Program. Aspiring neurologists are required to earn a Doctor of Medicine degree by attending medical school. Most medical school programs last four years, with the first two years typically covering the basics of human anatomy and physiology. Courses may also delve into nutrition, immunology and ethics.
The first step along the path to becoming a neurologist is to earn your bachelor’s degree. Medical schools do not have a finite list of acceptable degrees, but admissions officers typically prefer applicants who major in a relevant field. Biology, physics and chemistry are possible choices for an undergraduate major. Neurologists treat a variety of problems, including spinal cord injuries and diseases such as epilepsy. If you want to become a neurologist, be prepared to complete an extensive education.
To become a neurologist, you must complete an undergraduate degree, medical degree, and internship and residency training. Medical school provides intensive classroom and laboratory instruction as well as a variety of clinical rotations. All doctors must be licensed to practice. Requirements include graduation from an accredited medical school, completion of post-medical school training, and passing a written examination. Neurologists must also become board certified in neurology from the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology.
It typically takes about 12 years to become a neurologist. 4 years are spent as an undergraduate working toward a bachelor's degree, and then another 4 years are spent in medical school. After medical school, graduates will then undertake a one year internship, followed by a 3 year residency program. How To Become A Neurologist. The process to become a neurologist is lengthy. First, one must complete a bachelor's degree. Before graduating with their bachelor's degree, students will need to take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and apply to
Fellowship — One to Eight Years. A fellowship is not mandatory to become a neurologist, but fellowships offer additional training in a neurology sub-specialty and the opportunity to work with research teams. Most fellowships last between one and two years, but some can last for as many as eight years. Neurologists treat a variety of problems, including spinal cord injuries and diseases such as epilepsy. If you want to become a neurologist, be prepared to complete an extensive education.
Neurologist Education Requirements. 1  One has to complete an undergraduate degree before applying for neurology courses. 2  This requires four years of medical school. 3  One can become a Medical Doctor or a Doctor of Osteopathy. 1 In order to become a child neurologist, one has to complete two years pediatrics residency, one year internal medicine, a year of research and another year in pediatrics. 2  The resident must also complete two years of pediatric neurology and one year of adult neurology.