Simpson faced a possible life sentence with parole on the kidnapping charge, and mandatory prison time for armed robbery. On December 5, 2008, Simpson was sentenced to a total of thirty-three years in prison with the possibility of parole after about nine years, in 2017.
In January 2008, Simpson was taken into custody in Florida and flown to Las Vegas, where he was incarcerated at the county jail for allegedly violating the terms of his bail by attempting to contact Clarence C.J. Stewart, a co-defendant in the trial.
On December 5, 2008, Simpson was sentenced to 33 years in prison with eligibility for parole in nine years (in October 2017). He is currently incarcerated at the Lovelock Correctional Center in Lovelock, Nevada.
FILE-In this May 13, 2013 file photo, O.J. Simpson appears at an evidentiary hearing in Clark County District Court, in Las Vegas. Simpsons' appeal for release from a Nevada prison is now up to the Nevada Supreme Court.
Convicted kidnapper OJ Simpson has written to Barack Obama begging to be freed from jail because he thinks he has brain cancer. The former NFL star, who is serving a 33-year jail sentence in Nevada, is undergoing medical exams for a cancerous tumour.
In 2008, OJ Simpson was sentenced to nine to 33 years in prison for his involvement in an armed robbery and kidnapping in Las Vegas.
O.J. Simpson is 66 and has spent nearly all of his seventh decade in a Nevada prison after his conviction on kidnapping, armed robbery and other charges for busting into a Las Vegas casino to try to reclaim items he felt were rightfully his.
The former football great has been fighting for a new trial of the armed robbery and kidnapping case that landed him in prison years after he famously escaped a conviction. He’s serving up to 33 years for leading a group of men who attacked two sports memorabilia dealers at gunpoint at a Las Vegas hotel in 2007.
“OJ never wants to see him again,” the insider stated. Simpson remains in prison, serving a nine-to 33-year sentence in connection with robbery and kidnapping charges after a 2007 incident in Las Vegas. And prison has not been kind to OJ on many different levels.
The kidnapping charges were dropped in a plea deal and he was sentenced to 10-25 in the medium security prison in Lovelock, Nevada, where he later met OJ in 2008. OJ who was also convicted for armed robbery and kidnapping.