Hepatocellular ballooning is a key feature required for the diagnosis of NASH and a component of currently used histological grading and staging systems of NAFLD. The rearrangement of the intermediate filament cytoskeleton can be demonstrated by the loss of keratin 8/18 immunostaining of the cytoplasm, and may thus be evaluated in the future as a marker for the more objective detection of hepatocellular ballooning in NASH.
Hepatocellular ballooning in NASH. Caldwell S(1), Ikura Y, Dias D, Isomoto K, Yabu A, Moskaluk C, Pramoonjago P, Simmons W, Scruggs H, Rosenbaum N, Wilkinson T, Toms P, Argo CK, Al-Osaimi AM, Redick JA. Author information: CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate a relationship between cellular ballooning, fat droplet accumulation, and cytoskeletal injury in NASH. We speculate that injury to multiple, organelles including fat droplets and endoplasmic reticulum, contribute to this characteristic finding.
Degeneration. go to hell in a handbasket To indulge in petty or sporadic dissipation; to carouse occasionally, in a small way; to degenerate bit by bit; gradually to go downhill morally. This slang expression is often used to describe typically adolescent anti-social behavior, usually of a temporary nature. 2. The state of being degenerate. 3. Medicine Gradual deterioration of specific tissues, cells, or organs with corresponding impairment or loss of function, caused by injury, disease, or aging. 4. Biology The evolutionary decline or loss of a function, characteristic, or structure in an organism or species.
H&E stain. In histo pathology, ballooning degeneration, formally ballooning degeneration of hepatocytes, is a form of liver parenchymal cell (i.e. hepatocyte) death. The name is derived from the fact that the cells undergoing this form of cell death increase in size (balloon). It is generally considered a form of apoptosis, and is a descriptor used in the context of inflamed fatty liver (steatohepatitis), which may be due to obesity or alcohol. Also, ballooned cells have (small) pyknotic nuclei or nuclei that are undergoing karyorrhexis, i.e. in the process of disintegrating. The cytoplasm of cells undergoing ballooning degeneration is wispy/cobweb-like, while adipocyte-like cells have a clear cytoplasm or a vacuolated one.
METHODS: Sequential staining and high resolution imaging were used to study freshly prepared cryo-sections from 10 patients with histologically confirmed steatohepatitis using oil red O for fat droplet identification, H&E to identify ballooning, and anti-K18 to confirm cytoskeletal changes. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate a relationship between cellular ballooning, fat droplet accumulation, and cytoskeletal injury in NASH. We speculate that injury to multiple, organelles including fat droplets and endoplasmic reticulum, contribute to this characteristic finding.
Hepatocellular ballooning in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: the pathologist's perspective. Lackner C(1). Author information: (1)Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 25, A-8010 Graz, Austria. The rearrangement of the intermediate filament cytoskeleton can be demonstrated by the loss of keratin 8/18 immunostaining of the cytoplasm, and may thus be evaluated in the future as a marker for the more objective detection of hepatocellular ballooning in NASH.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an important complication of the metabolic syndrome. The increasing prevalence of the metabolic syndrome is paralleled by an increasing prevalence of NAFLD, which has become one of the most common chronic liver diseases. The rearrangement of the intermediate filament cytoskeleton can be demonstrated by the loss of keratin 8/18 immunostaining of the cytoplasm, and may thus be evaluated in the future as a marker for the more objective detection of hepatocellular ballooning in NASH.
Ballooned cells are typically two to three times the size of adjacent hepatocytes and are characterized by a wispy cleared cytoplasm on H&E stained sections. Also, ballooned cells have (small) pyknotic nuclei or nuclei that are undergoing karyorrhexis, i.e. in the process of disintegrating. The cytoplasm of cells undergoing ballooning degeneration is wispy/cobweb-like, while adipocyte-like cells have a clear cytoplasm or a vacuolated one.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hepatocellular ballooning is a key finding in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). It is conventionally defined by hemotoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining showing enlarged cells with rarefied cytoplasm and recently by changes in the cytoskeleton. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate a relationship between cellular ballooning, fat droplet accumulation, and cytoskeletal injury in NASH. We speculate that injury to multiple, organelles including fat droplets and endoplasmic reticulum, contribute to this characteristic finding.
The key histological features of NASH accepted by most pathologists include steatosis, hepatocellular ballooning and lobular inflammation, whereas, like in other chronic liver diseases, the presence of fibrosis is not considered a requirement for the diagnosis. The rearrangement of the intermediate filament cytoskeleton can be demonstrated by the loss of keratin 8/18 immunostaining of the cytoplasm, and may thus be evaluated in the future as a marker for the more objective detection of hepatocellular ballooning in NASH.