The Practically Unsinkable Republic. The Republic, originally built as Dominion Line's Columbus, was launched in 1903 to that company's specifications, making her first trip across the Atlantic in October of that year. She was transferred shortly thereafter to the White Star Line.
The RMS Republic sank in the most treacherous part of the North Atlantic, a heavily trafficked shipping lane, in 270 feet of shark infested water. The ripples from her loss generated the greatest legend in lost-treasure lore, the loss of wealth beyond most men's wildest dreams.
On October 25, 1865, the legendary SS Republic sank 1,700 feet to the bottom of the Atlantic. With Odyssey’s 2003 discovery of the SS Republic, the ship’s remarkable legacy lives on as her story is chronicled in publications, television documentaries and exhibits.
“WAR” proclaims the letters scrawled across the face of a silver coin found aboard the SS Republic shipwreck. The stark declaration, mirrored the headlines in Union North and Confederate South newspapers across the nation over 150 years ago.
When the Civil War broke out over 150 years ago, the SS Tennessee (later known as the SS Republic) was trapped in harbor at New Orleans’ port. Early the next year she was purchased for service by the Confederate Navy to penetrate the Federal blockade of the Gulf of Mexico.
The Republic, just five years old, one of the most modern passenger liners afloat at that time, White Star Line's flagship of its Boston-Mediterranean service, was considered practically unsinkable. A ship of her size and modern-construction, with twelve watertight bulkheads, had never sunk before.
The mighty SS Tennessee (later known as the USS Mobile in 1864 and the SS Republic in 1865) served on both sides of the Civil War, beginning in January, 1862, when she was forcibly sold into the Confederate Navy.
T hree years before Titanic, on January 24, 1909, another palatial and unsinkable White Star Line passenger liner sank 50 miles off the coast of Nantucket.
Ultimately, however, the Republic's bulkheads did not hold. The next day, while under tow back to New York, she sank in deep and shark-infested waters 50 miles south of Nantucket Island-beyond the grasp of that era's technology to recover.