Monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Fanale MA, Younes A. Antibody-based therapeutic approaches have had a significant impact in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Rituximab's development as an anti-CD20 antibody heralded a new era in treatment approaches for NHL
Drug therapy using monoclonal antibodies can be an effective treatment. A monoclonal antibody is an immune protein made in a laboratory. It's designed to target a specific molecule on the surface of CLL cells. The monoclonal antibody aims for the molecule and attaches itself to the cell, causing the cell to die. 
The types used most often in lymphoma are monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies (MABs) are proteins made in the laboratory that target the cells of particular types of cancer. A MAB called rituximab is now commonly used to treat some types of lymphoma. It is also called Mabthera. Biological therapy and NHL. Biological therapies are treatments that act on cell processes and stop cells from growing and dividing. They can help to treat some types of lymphoma. Monoclonal antibodies (MABs) are the most common type of biological therapy used in lymphoma. They are proteins made in the laboratory from a single copy of a humanised antibody
Some monoclonal antibody drugs may be used in combination with other treatments, such as chemotherapy and hormone therapy. Others are administered alone. Monoclonal antibody drugs were initially used to treat advanced cancers that hadn't responded to chemotherapy or cancers that had returned despite treatment. For instance, rituximab can be used as an initial treatment in some types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and trastuzumab (Herceptin) is used in the treatment of some forms of early breast cancer.
Advantages and disadvantages of monoclonal antibodies in treatment of disease. The potential advantages of using monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of cancer are great because monoclonal antibodies only bind to the specific cancer cells that need treatment. Healthy cells are not affected at all. © iStock photo.com. 1  Diagnosis of disease-monoclonal antibodies can be made which bind to specific antigens on blood clots or on cancer cells. 2  Treatment of disease-monoclonal antibodies can be used to carry drugs to specific tissues.
Monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer. One way the immune system attacks foreign substances in the body is by making large numbers of antibodies. An antibody is a protein that sticks to a specific protein called an antigen. Antibodies circulate throughout the body until they find and attach to the antigen. Researchers can design antibodies that specifically target a certain antigen, such as one found on cancer cells. They can then make many copies of that antibody in the lab. These are known as monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Monoclonal antibodies are used to treat many diseases, including some types of cancer.
Monoclonal antibodies are a type of biological therapy. They can treat some types of cancer. Monoclonal means one type. So each monoclonal antibody (MAB) drug is a lot of copies of one specific type of antibody. Monoclonal antibodies work by recognising and finding specific proteins on cancer cells. 
Monoclonal antibody drugs are a relatively new innovation in cancer treatment. While several monoclonal antibody drugs are available for treating certain cancers, the best way to use these new drugs isn't always clear. Monoclonal antibody drugs for cancer: How they work. If you're considering monoclonal antibody therapy as part of your cancer treatment, learn about these drugs and carefully weigh the benefits against the potential side effects.