Blood pH. The acidity or alkalinity of your blood affects your phosphorus level. Medical conditions that cause your blood to be too acidic can lead to hyperphosphatemia. If your blood becomes too alkaline, your phosphorus level may fall to an abnormally low level. Normal Range. Phosphorus circulates in your bloodstream in the form of phosphate, or PO4, which is the substance measured in the laboratory when your phosphorus level is checked. Although the terms phosphorus and phosphate are not technically synonymous, they are commonly used interchangeably.
Because the majority of phosphorus is found in the bones, chronically low phosphorus levels -- along with low levels of other vitamins and minerals such as calcium and vitamin D -- can weaken your bones and increase your risk for bone fractures. Causes of Low Phosphorus Levels. Causes of hypophosphatemia can occur based on several conditions including alcoholism, chronic diarrhea, malnutrition, burns or uncontrolled diabetes.
Drugs that may be prescribed by your doctor: There are few medications that may be prescribed for high blood phosphate levels. The treatment of your high blood phosphate levels is to identify the underlying cause, and to treat that condition. 1  Aluminum hydroxide-can be used to bind phosphate in your blood. Phosphate, or phosphorous, is similar to calcium, as it is found in your teeth and bones. Like calcium, you need vitamin D in order to absorb phosphate properly. The kidneys excrete phosphate.
Normal working kidneys can remove extra phosphorus in your blood. When you have Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) your kidneys cannot remove phosphorus very well. High phosphorus levels can cause damage to your body. Extra phosphorus causes body changes that pull calcium out of your bones, making them weak. High phosphorus and calcium levels also lead to dangerous calcium deposits in blood vessels, lungs, eyes, and heart. 
Drugs that may be prescribed by your doctor for hypophosphatemia: There are few medications prescribed specifically for low blood phosphate levels. The treatment of your low blood phosphate levels is to identify the underlying cause, and to treat that condition. 1  Electrolytes-your blood electrolyte levels are most likely low. 2  Phosphate supplementation-Can be either intravenous (IV) with extremely low levels, or it can be by mouth.
Symptoms of Low Phosphorus. Although some people can be asymptomatic, muscle weakness, neurological disorders, osteomalacia and anemia can occur in chronic conditions. Osteomalacia is a bone disease that causes the bones to soften over time. Causes of Low Phosphorus Levels. Causes of hypophosphatemia can occur based on several conditions including alcoholism, chronic diarrhea, malnutrition, burns or uncontrolled diabetes.
A high level of phosphate in the blood is usually caused by a kidney problem. The amount of phosphate in the blood affects the level of calcium in the blood. Calcium and phosphate in the body react in opposite ways: as blood calcium levels rise, phosphate levels fall. A hormone called parathyroid hormone (PTH) regulates the levels of calcium and phosphorus in your blood. When the phosphorus level is measured, a vitamin D level, and sometimes a PTH level, is measured at the same time. Vitamin D is needed for your body to take in phosphate. 
Hypophosphatemia (Low Phosphate). Hypophosphatemia may be described as low levels of inorganic phosphate in the blood. Phosphate, or phosphorous, is similar to calcium, and is found in your teeth and bones. You need vitamin D in order to absorb phosphate. The kidneys excrete (get rid of) phosphate from our bodies. The treatment of your low blood phosphate levels is to identify the underlying cause, and to treat that condition. 1  Electrolytes-your blood electrolyte levels are most likely low. 2  Phosphate supplementation-Can be either intravenous (IV) with extremely low levels, or it can be by mouth.
Symptoms of Too Little Phosphorus. Hypophosphatemia occurs when phosphorus levels in your blood get too low. This causes your energy levels to drop, and can cause muscle weakness, fatigue, and a low tolerance for exercise. 
Phosphorus is an essential dietary nutrient that is concentrated in your bones and cells. Your kidneys are the primary regulators of phosphorus balance in your body but many medical conditions can affect your phosphorus level. Abnormally high or low levels may cause serious metabolic problems. Normal Range. Phosphorus circulates in your bloodstream in the form of phosphate, or PO4, which is the substance measured in the laboratory when your phosphorus level is checked. Although the terms phosphorus and phosphate are not technically synonymous, they are commonly used interchangeably.