He did many calculations and discovered gravity. Sir Isaac NewtonSIR Isaac Newton was famous for being the first person to lay down the laws on gravity and force. He is the person who was said to be sitting under an apple tree and an apple fell on his head. He also figured out why a rainbow is made. Isaac Newton was well known the three laws of motion. He was also know for the math genius he was. sir Isaac Newton was famous for many things, but his moat famous were the 3 laws of motion, explaining gravity, and the light spectrum. He discovered gravity.
Best Answer: Sir Isaac Newton is famous because of his three laws of motion, and the discovery (scientific explanation) of gravity. Isaac Newton used three laws to explain the way objects move. They are often call Newton’s Laws. Newton, Sir Isaac (1642-1727), mathematician and physicist, one of the foremost scientific intellects of all time.
He did many calculations and discovered gravity. Sir Isaac NewtonSIR Isaac Newton was famous for being the first person to lay down the laws on gravity and force. He is the person who was said to be sitting under an apple tree and an apple fell on his head. He also figured out why a rainbow is made. Isaac Newton was well known the three laws of motion. He was also know for the math genius he was. sir Isaac Newton was famous for many things, but his moat famous were the 3 laws of motion, explaining gravity, and the light spectrum.
Sir Isaac Newton is best known for explaining how gravity works. Newton was born in Woolsthorpe, England on January 4, 1643. As a child, he loved to make model windmills and other mechanical toys, but he did badly in school and even worse running the family estate. At the University of Cambridge, both the students and professors disliked him because of the chip on his shoulder.
Sir Isaac Newton was famous for his 3 laws of motion. Isaac Newton is famous because he explained gravity. He found how gravity works and now because of Isaac Newton we all know about gravity, and can explain the meaning. He also figured out why a rainbow is made. Isaac Newton was well known the three laws of motion. He was also know for the math genius he was. sir Isaac Newton was famous for many things, but his moat famous were the 3 laws of motion, explaining gravity, and the light spectrum.
Issac Newton is famous because he invented calculus and the reflecting telescope, and worked out scientific principles such as the three laws of motion and the laws of gravity. Isaac Newton was well known the three laws of motion. He was also know for the math genius he was. sir Isaac Newton was famous for many things, but his moat famous were the 3 laws of motion, explaining gravity, and the light spectrum. He discovered gravity.
Sir Isaac Newton Isaac Newton was born in 1642 in a manor house in Lincolnshire, England. His father had died two months before his birth. When Isaac Newton was three his mother remarried, and Isaac remained with his grandmother. Isaac published his most famous book, Principia, in 1687 while he was a mathematics professor at Trinity College, Cambridge. In the Principia, Isaac explained three basic laws that govern the way objects move. He then described his idea, or theory, about gravity.
Early Life. On January 4, 1643, Isaac Newton was born in the hamlet of Woolsthorpe, Lincolnshire, England (using the old Julien calendar, Newton's birth date is sometimes displayed as December 25, 1642). He was the only son of a prosperous local farmer, also named Isaac Newton, who died three months before he was born. 