Fungi are both unicellular and multicellular. Unicellular fungi are yeasts. All other types of fungi are
Unicellular eukaryotic organisms-these organisms are unicellular and are eukaryotes. They have membrane bound true nucleus and other membrane bound organelles. These are mainly free living or aquatic parasites like the protozoans, some fungi and algae or some protists.
Kingdom Fungi comprises the fungi, such as mushrooms, molds, and yeasts, eukaryotic heterotrophs that digest food outside of their bodies. Most fungi are multicellular, but some, the yeasts, are simple unicellular organisms probably evolved from multicellular ancestors.
Prokaryotic unicellular organisms are protists and some fungi. Some of these unicellular prokaryotes live in colonies. They live together and all the cells of the colony is the same. All the process of life is carried out in each cell in order for the cell to survive.
Picture 1. Left: Molds with their multi-cellular filaments appear as fuzzy growths. Right: Unicellular yeasts appear as a smooth growth. (source: phil.cdc.gov). A term mildew refers either to certain kinds of mold or to mold growth on plants, walls, leather, paper, cloths, etc.
The 4 types of fungus are the thread-like fungus (mold) sac fungus  (spores) club fungus (mushrooms) and imperfect fungi (imperfect)    Answer II    Main type … s of Fungi are:   1. Zygomycota or conjugating fungi as  bread molds   2.
Kingdom Fungi. FUNGI: Body type: unicellular or multicellular Prokaryotic / eukaryotic: eukaryotic Food consumption: throught absorbtion Reproduction: both sexual and asexual Environments: marine, terrestrial, fresh water Number of species: about 100,000 Characteristics: Cell walls made of chitin (chit-in).
Molds are multicellular, filamentous fungi that are commonly found on foods. Yeasts are any unicellular fungus. Being single celled and eukaryotic, yeasts make excellent research organisms for studying processes that can be applied to humans as well.
Fungi are a group of living organisms, consisting from unicellular yeasts, and multicellular molds and mushrooms. A word fungus, plural fungi, is adopted from Latin fungus (mushroom), from Greek sphongos (sponge), and refers to a physical appearance of fungi.