In his youth he became a senior British officer in the colonial militia during the first stages of the French and Indian War. In 1775, the Second Continental Congress commissioned Washington as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution. In that command, Washington forced the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and nearly captured later that year when he lost New York City. Washington did not explicitly seek the office of commander and said that he was not equal to it, but there was no serious competition. Congress created the Continental Army on June 14, 1775. Nominated by John Adams of Massachusetts, Washington was then appointed as a full General and Commander-in-chief.
The Journals of the Continental Congress contains the following references to Washington's commission as Commander in Chief. June 15, 1775 - George Washington was unanimously selected as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army. George Washington resigned his commission as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army in the senate chamber of the Maryland State House in Annapolis, where the Continental Congress was meeting on December 23, 1783. External Web Sites. George Washington's Resignation, Maryland State Archives.
They signed a petition demanding the Intolerable Acts be repealed and sent it to England with the demand they would be repealed. John Adams thought the First Continental Congress was like a school for American leaders. George Washington, Samuel Adams and Patrick Henry were all part of this Congress. Benjamin Franklin was in England and presenting the colonists' demands in person to the British Parliament. 
The Continental Congress commissioned George Washington as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army on June 19, 1775. Washington was selected over other candidates such as John Hancock based on his previous military experience and the hope that a leader from Virginia could help unite the colonies. George Washington resigned his commission as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army in the senate chamber of the Maryland State House in Annapolis, where the Continental Congress was meeting on December 23, 1783. External Web Sites. George Washington's Resignation, Maryland State Archives.
December 23, 1783 George Washington resigned his commission as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army in the senate chamber of the Maryland State House in Annapolis, where the Continental Congress was meeting on December 23, 1783. External Web Sites. George Washington's Resignation, Maryland State Archives.
On September 5, 1774, delegates from each of the 13 colonies except for Georgia (which was fighting a Native-American uprising and was dependent on the British for military supplies) met in Philadelphia as the First Continental Congress to organize colonial resistance to Parliament’s Coercive Acts. From 1774 to 1789, the Continental Congress served as the government of the 13 American colonies and later the United States.
George Washington (February 22, 1732 [ O.S. February 11, 1731] – December 14, 1799) was the first President of the United States (1789–97), the Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Washington did not explicitly seek the office of commander and said that he was not equal to it, but there was no serious competition. Congress created the Continental Army on June 14, 1775. Nominated by John Adams of Massachusetts, Washington was then appointed as a full General and Commander-in-chief.
The Continental Congress was a convention of delegates called together from the Thirteen Colonies which became the governing body of the United States (USA) during the American Revolution. The Congress met from 1774 to 1789 in three incarnations. The first call for a convention was made over issues of the blockade and the Intolerable Acts penalizing the Province of Massachusetts, which in 1774 enabled Benjamin Franklin to convince the colonies to form a representative body.
On this day in 1775, George Washington, who would one day become the first American president, accepts an assignment to lead the Continental Army. Born a British citizen and a former Redcoat, Washington had, by the 1770s, joined the growing ranks of colonists who were dismayed by what they considered to be Britain’s exploitative policies in North America. In 1774, Washington joined the Continental Congress as a delegate from Virginia. The next year, the Congress offered Washington the role of commander in chief of the Continental Army. After accepting the position, Washington sat down and wrote a letter to his wife, Martha, in which he revealed his concerns about his new role