The journal Behavior Research Methods publishes articles concerned with the methods, techniques, and instrumentation of research in experimental psychology. The journal focuses particularly on the use of computer technology in psychological research. An annual special issue is devoted to this field. Aims and Scope. Behavior Research Methods publishes articles concerned with the methods, techniques, and instrumentation of research in experimental psychology. The journal focuses particularly on the use of computer technology in psychological research.
List of psychological research methods. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A wide range of research methods are used in psychology. These methods vary by the sources of information that are drawn on, how that information is sampled, and the types of instruments that are used in data collection. Methods also vary by whether they collect qualitative data, quantitative data or both
In Precursors to Cognitive Psychology we saw that psychologists adopted a number of methodologies throughout the late nineteenth century and the twentieth century, including focusing only on observable behaviour. Computer simulations and artificial intelligence. As used in cognitive psychology, computer simulations aim to imitate aspects of human functioning. A particular cognitive theory may be implemented in a computer program.
(Answer #1). Cognitive psychology is a study of the internal mental processes a person has. It has to do with how people mentally represent information processing. Experiments in this field have to do with stimulus and response. Jean Piaget is one of the most famous cognitive psychologists. His work has to do with developmental stages in children. Unlike some other theories, cognitive psychology accepts the scientific method and recognizes internal mental states such as motivation, desire, and belief.
The cognitive perspective applies a nomothetic approach to discover human cognitive processes, but have also adopted idiographic techniques through using case studies (e.g. KF, HM). Cognitive psychology is also a reductionist approach. This is because the cognitive approach is a scientific one. For example, participants will take part in memory tests in strictly controlled conditions. However, the widely used lab experiment can be criticized for lacking ecological validity (a major criticism of cognitive psychology).
But although cognitive psychology is concerned with all human activity rather than some fraction of it, the concern is from a particular point of view. Other viewpoints are equally legitimate and necessary. Dynamic psychology, which begins with motives rather than with sensory input, is a case in point. 
Clinical Psychology: Treatment Methods. There are a number of different therapy options available in clinical psychology. The choice of which method to use depends on your preferences. One popular method found in clinical psychology is the cognitive behavioral approach. This method involves identifying and then changing the patterns of behavior that are contributing to problems. Patterns of thought as well as behavior are part of the focus of the cognitive behavioral approach. 
Cognitive Psychology revolves around the notion that if we want to know what makes people tick then we need to understand the internal processes of their mind. Cognition literally means “knowing”. This is because the cognitive approach is a scientific one. For example, participants will take part in memory tests in strictly controlled conditions. However, the widely used lab experiment can be criticized for lacking ecological validity (a major criticism of cognitive psychology).
Cognitive psychology is a pure science, based mainly on laboratory experiments. Behavior can be largely explained in terms of how the mind operates, i.e. the information processing approach. The mind works in a way similar to a computer: inputting, storing and retrieving data. This is because the cognitive approach is a scientific one. For example, participants will take part in memory tests in strictly controlled conditions. However, the widely used lab experiment can be criticized for lacking ecological validity (a major criticism of cognitive psychology).