Tropical Rainforest. Introduction: The tropical rainforest is earth’s most complex biome in terms of both structure and species diversity. It occurs under optimal growing conditions: abundant precipitation and year round warmth. There is no annual rhythm to the forest; rather each species has evolved its own flowering and fruiting seasons. 
Structure-The tropical rainforest is composed of three layers: the canopy, the understory, and the forest floor. The canopy is formed from the large trees whose crowns form a tight, continuous layer above the ground. 
Both vines and ferns grow all over the tropical rainforest biome. They help to connect the various layers found in the biome. For example there are herbs and mushrooms that grow on the floor. Various types of fruits and nuts grow on the plants and in the trees. Bananas grow on the vines in this particular biome as well. Due to the heat and the moisture of the tropical rainforest biome, the plants and animals that die in this location rot quickly. The decay though offers plenty of rich nutrients for other plants to grow from.
Due to the high humidity in the tropical rainforest biome, there is an abundance of microorganisms. They are able to decompose anything on the forest floor very rapidly. Plants and trees are able to grow fast from the nutrients found in this soil. However, the nutrients are going to remain in the trees and plants. Due to the heat and the moisture of the tropical rainforest biome, the plants and animals that die in this location rot quickly. The decay though offers plenty of rich nutrients for other plants to grow from.
In a tropical rainforest biome, there are several characteristics that have been identified. They have rainfall that can occur all year long, and often in heavy volume. It is common for them to get at least 100 inches per year. Some areas get up to 400 inches of rain annually. Due to the heat and the moisture of the tropical rainforest biome, the plants and animals that die in this location rot quickly. The decay though offers plenty of rich nutrients for other plants to grow from.
Plants Animals Climate Southeast Asian Rainforests The tropical rain forest is a forest of tall trees in a region of year-round warmth. An average of 50 to 260 inches (125 to 660 cm.) of rain falls yearly. Rain forests belong to the tropical wet climate group. In an average year the climate in a tropical rain forest is very humid because of all the rainfall. A tropical rainforest gets about 150 cm of rain per year. It gets lots of rain because it is very hot and wet in rain forests. The hotter the air, the more water vapor it can hold.
LOCATION: There are two types of rainforest biomes: temperate and tropical rainforests. Temperate rainforests are found along coasts in temperate regions. The largest temperate rainforests are on the Pacific coast in North America, stretching from Alaska to Oregon. ANIMALS: Tropical rainforests are home to half the plant and animal species on Earth. Scientists believe that there is such a great diversity of animals in tropical rainforests because they are one of the oldest ecosystems on earth.
The Understory. The forest floor of primary tropical rainforest is rarely the thick, tangled jungle of movies and adventure stories. It is actually rather the opposite: the floor is relatively clear of vegetation due to the deep darkness created by perhaps 100 feet (30 m) of canopy vegetation above. 
Tropical Rainforest The tropical rainforest is a hot, moist biome found near Earth's equator. The world's largest tropical rainforests are in South America, Africa, and Southeast Asia. Tropical rainforests receive from 60 to 160 inches of precipitation that is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year.