Also visible during a total eclipse is the outermost layer of the Sun, the corona, which appears as a ghostly white halo reaching out 500,000 or more miles (800,000 km) until it fades into invisibility. Although very thin, the coronal gases are also very hot, over 1,000,000 degrees. The Outer Layers of the Sun. The Sun has three visible layers. The bright surface we can see is the innermost layer, the photosphere. The photosphere looks sharply-defined, but actually the Sun has no solid surface. Deep in the Sun electrons are torn free from atoms and these electrons absorb photons of light before they can get very far
The atmosphere of the sun is composed of several layers, mainly the photosphere, the chromosphere and the corona. It's in these outer layers that the sun's energy, which has bubbled up from the sun's interior layers, is detected as sunlight. The lowest layer of the sun's atmosphere is the photosphere. It is about 300 miles (500 kilometers) thick. This layer is where the sun's energy is released as light. Because of the distance from the sun to Earth, light reaches our planet in about eight minutes.
Compared to the amount of time it takes to get through the radiative zone, energy is transported very quickly through the outer convective zone. The Sun’s visible surface the photosphere is “only” about 5,800 K (10,000 degrees F). Just above the photosphere is a thin layer called the chromosphere. The name chromosphere is derived from the word chromos, the Greek word for color. It can be detected in red hydrogen-alpha light meaning that it appears bright red.
The parts of the sun's atmosphere from the surface outward are the photosphere, the chromosphere, th … e corona, and the outer layers of the corona called the solar wind. The photosphere is the visible part of the Sun's atmosphere. the outer layer of the suns atmosphere is the corona the outer layer of the suns atmosphere is the corona The outer mst part of the sun's atmosphere is called the corona. 7 people found this useful. the outer layer of the brain is the cortex and the inner layer is the medulla. 14 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Clean Sweep: Deleting Temporary Internet Files Temporary Internet files are simultaneously useful and annoying.
The Corona. The outermost layer of the Sun is called the corona or the crown. The corona is very thin and faint and is therefore very difficult to observe from the earth. Typically, we observe the corona during a total solar eclipse or by using a coronagraph telescope which simulates an eclipse by covering the bright solar disk. 
The outermost layer of the Sun, if you mean the surface, is called the photosphere. If you mean in the atmosphere, it is called the chromosphere which can only be observed on … the day of a solar eclipse. Beyond that there is a very tenuous layer called the corona. I think that's the outermost layer. 
The convection zone is the outermost layer of the sun's interior. It extends from about 125,000 miles (200,000 km) deep up to the visible surface or the sun's atmosphere. Temperatures cool in this zone, enough for heavier ions — such as carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, calcium and iron — to hold onto their electrons. These elements are created in the sun's core, which makes up 25 percent of the sun. Gravitational forces create tremendous pressure and temperatures in the core. The temperature of the sun in this layer is about 27 million degrees F (15 million degrees C).
The outer layer of sun''s atmosphere is made up of thin hot gases.It is called Corona.Corona is visible only during the total eclipse of the sun or with a special solar telescope called Coronagraph. 1 0. 
The sun is a big ball of hot gases. The gases are converted into energy in the sun's core. The energy moves outward through the interior layers, into the sun's atmosphere, and is released into the solar system as heat and light. These elements are created in the sun's core, which makes up 25 percent of the sun. Gravitational forces create tremendous pressure and temperatures in the core. The temperature of the sun in this layer is about 27 million degrees F (15 million degrees C).