How long does it take for a package to clear canadian customs? the package was sent with usps, and on the tracking info it said that my package arrived at customs on october 20th, it is now october 26... how much longer will it take?? i really want my package.
How long do packages take to get thru customs/does USPS really update the tracking daily? My package has been in customs (incoming) since the 30th at 1:44 pm. Alas, this was not updated until the 31st... Update: It's in the states. Sorry if that wasn't clear. This appeared on the 31st: Your item arrived in the United States at ISC NEW YORK NY(USPS) at 1:48 PM on July 30, 2008. Information, if available, is updated every evening. Please check again later.
How often do they (usps)... show more It's in the states. Sorry if that wasn't clear. This appeared on the 31st: Your item arrived in the United States at ISC NEW YORK NY(USPS) at 1:48 PM on July 30, 2008. Information, if available, is updated every evening. Please check again later. Update:
How long will it take for my package to clear customs from the USA to the UK? In the package contains a scarf, a hallmark card, polo shirt and over the counter centrum vitamins. I declared this package as gifts but when i had double checked my receipt I saw that i had forgot to note that there were centrum vitamins in it. Best Answer: I would not be unduly worried, packages from the USA can take up to 10-20 days, yours is around 10 days now, so you'll probably receive it this week.
How long does it take a parcel to clear UK customs? It's a used iPod from my girlfriend who's currently in Canada, labelled at $200 and it hasn't budged from customs since Friday night. This is the current situation according to Canada Post: Track... show more It's a used iPod from my girlfriend who's currently in Canada, labelled at $200 and it hasn't budged from customs since Friday night. It's my birthday next week and this was supposed to take up to 7 working days according to her.
The time is takes for a package to clear customs varies from one  day to one month. The way a package is shipped has a lot to do with  how long it will take to clear. 1 person found this useful. Edit. 
For me, the longest a package has been in customs was 3 days. I normally spend anywhere from $100-$200 per package, and I usually order from China twice a month. Source(s): mkaye715 · 6 years ago. I have a package coming from China through EMS and it said it was handed over to US customs Feb 24, 2010. How long should it take to clear and get to me. Add your answer.