The head has little burs on it to keep it from coming out so easily in order to survive. Even if you could pull a tick out, it is hard to get the head out, it will seperate from the body. If you saw the tick walking away or backing out completely, then use something like Neosporin and keep it covered to heal. Irritation is normal. depends on your skin. it takes a little while because I've had mine for about a month and after i pulled it off it was a little purple mark then it turns into a little red mark and gets smaller and smaller until it goes away(even though I've had mine for a long time, i still have it). That seems a little to long.
A rash from the transmitted Lyme disease may also develop a few days to weeks after exposure to a tick bite. Appearance of symptoms will really depend on what type of disease was transmitted, but usually, incubation period occurs about 10-14 days after exposure. Also, if the tick was not properly removed from its bite, then the bite may also take longer to heal. In order to properly remove ticks properly, the following steps must be followed to avoid further damage and complications: 1  Use tweezers to remove the tick.
Experts describe the characteristic Lyme rash as developing 3 days to a month after the tick bite. It then expands over days or weeks, unless it is treated. If you treat with antibiotics, the rash should start to fade in a day or two. 
If you develop illness within a few weeks of a tick bite, see your health care provider right away. Common symptoms of Lyme disease include a rash, fever, body aches, facial paralysis, and arthritis. Ticks can also transmit other diseases, so it's important to be alert for any illness that follows a tick bite.
Early Signs and Symptoms (3 to 30 days after tick bite). 1  Fever, chills, headache, fatigue, muscle and joint aches, and swollen lymph nodes. 2  Erythema migrans (EM) rash: 3  Occurs in approximately 70 to 80 percent of infected persons. 4  Begins at the site of a tick bite after a delay of 3 to 30 days (average is about 7 days). 1 Erythema migrans (EM) rash: 2  Occurs in approximately 70 to 80 percent of infected persons. 3  Begins at the site of a tick bite after a delay of 3 to 30 days (average is about 7 days). 4  Expands gradually over a period of days reaching up to 12 inches or more (30 cm) across.
The Lymes Disease will not go away on on it's own. I know someone that has this disease, never knew he had a tick bite, but after 3 years of being very, very sick someone suggested Lymes Disease. He tested positive for it and the doctors have told him they do not know how he is still alive. Then, one day a few weeks after it seemed the bite was completely gone/healed, the bite was back and as itchy as ever. It's maddening. I'm hoping that in time the thing will just go away, since there's not much else to can do. I've seen spider bites that also last a very long time.
Tick bites will last depending if it is just a harmless bite or not. A non-infectious bite will improve after a few days or 72 hours to about a week. But if the bite has transmitted a disease, it may take longer to heal. Also, if the tick was not properly removed from its bite, then the bite may also take longer to heal. In order to properly remove ticks properly, the following steps must be followed to avoid further damage and complications: 1  Use tweezers to remove the tick.
How to treat and heal tick bites. Applying an ice pack on the tick bite for about 15 to 20 minutes once every hour for 6 hours will help with the pain or itching. If ice is not available, a cool wet cloth may be used. Also, if the tick was not properly removed from its bite, then the bite may also take longer to heal. In order to properly remove ticks properly, the following steps must be followed to avoid further damage and complications: 1  Use tweezers to remove the tick.
4. Get help from a doctor now ›. The: The rash associated with lyme disease is called erythema migrans and it looks like a target or bulls-eye. It usually starts at the site of the tick bite 3-30 days after the bite (average 7 days) and then can spread to other parts of the body. The rash typically doesn't last more than a month and is rarely itchy. An itchy rash appearing 6 months after a tick bite would not be related to lyme disease. 