Aspiring mechanical engineers must earn a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering at minimum, and many pursue graduate degrees in the field. Every state requires that mechanical engineers earn licensure, which calls for education, supervised work experience and several examinations. Earning a degree in mechanical engineering opens a variety of career opportunities with automobile manufacturers, utility companies and government agencies. Additional education, like a Master of Business Administration or a Doctor of Jurisprudence, can lead to employment in executive positions.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a mechanical engineer. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». Earning a degree in mechanical engineering opens a variety of career opportunities with automobile manufacturers, utility companies and government agencies. Additional education, like a Master of Business Administration or a Doctor of Jurisprudence, can lead to employment in executive positions.
Engineering school admission requirements typically include a high school diploma with a full menu of math and science courses, plus humanities and computer studies. High school preparation should include geometry, trigonometry, algebra and calculus, plus physics, chemistry and biology. Bachelor's Degree Classes. A bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering normally requires general classes in math, humanities, science, social sciences and engineering during the first two years, and specialized classes during the remaining years.
1 Students need a minimum of 382 units to complete the B.S. degree (Class of 2014 - minimum unit requirement is 381). 2  During their first year, students complete (24-101) Fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering course and another introductory engineering course. A complete description of the program and degree requirements can be found in the Undergraduate Catalog (excerpt). 1  Students need a minimum of 382 units to complete the B.S. degree (Class of 2014 - minimum unit requirement is 381). 2  During their first year, students complete (24-101) Fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering course and another 3  ... Stude
1. You usually need a university degree in mechanical engineering or in a related field of engineering. 2. You may also need a master's degree or doctorate in a related engineering field. 3. You need a licence from a provincial/territorial association of professional engineers to approve engineering drawings/reports and to practise as a professional engineer (P. Eng.).
The following is written by and according to the U.S. Department of Labor and particular to the education and training required for an engineer. Engineers typically enter the occupation with a bachelor's degree in an engineering specialty, but some basic research positions may require a graduate degree. Engineering is a 4 year college degree. You would take lots of math and science courses before you get into the core engineering courses. Chemical engineers often minor in che … mistry, electrical engineers in computer science, mechanical and aeronautical engineers take a lot of physics and so on.
Licensure. Mechanical engineers working in all states must earn licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE). Requirements for PE licensure include a bachelor's degree from a four-year institution accredited by ABET and work experience under the supervision of a licensed engineer. Earning a degree in mechanical engineering opens a variety of career opportunities with automobile manufacturers, utility companies and government agencies. Additional education, like a Master of Business Administration or a Doctor of Jurisprudence, can lead to employment in executive positions.
We fully meet the requirements of an accredited mechanical engineering curriculum, as accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. A complete description of the program and degree requirements can be found in the Undergraduate Catalog (excerpt). 1  Students need a minimum of 382 units to complete the B.S. degree (Class of 2014 - minimum unit requirement is 381). 2  During their first year, students complete (24-101) Fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering course and another 3  ... Stude
Degree Requirement. Most employers prefer a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering for entry-level mechanical engineering jobs. However, some graduates with other engineering specialties, or with a bachelor's in science or math, can find mechanical engineering jobs when demand is particularly high. Bachelor's Degree Classes. A bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering normally requires general classes in math, humanities, science, social sciences and engineering during the first two years, and specialized classes during the remaining years.
Education Requirements. If you're new to the field, a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering is usually suitable to qualify you for an entry-level job. Many schools offer majors specifically in mechanical engineering, though some relevant alternatives include mathematics, chemistry, or physics. 