They also work well in soups, stews, and slow cooker recipes. Rutabaga (per 3.5 ounces: 36 calories, 8 grams carbohydrates, 3 grams fiber, 6 grams sugar). They're higher in sugar than the other potato swaps, but they still have less than half the calories of potatoes or sweet potatoes. Per serving: 130 calories, 3 grams fat, 1.8 grams saturated fat, 240 mg sodium, 12 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams fiber, 8 grams sugar, 4 grams protein. *****. This rosti, which is similar to a potato latke, is from Kim Kringlie, chef and co-owner of The Dakota in Covington.
FIBER. One medium potato with the skin contributes 2 grams of fiber or 8% of the daily value per serving. Dietary fiber is a complex carbohydrate and is the part of the plant material that cannot be digested and absorbed in the bloodstream. 
Total Carbohydrates. The amount of total carbohydrates includes all of the sugar, starch and fiber found in a potato. The total carbohydrates in a medium-sized potato range from 27 grams in red and white potatoes to 34 grams in sweet potatoes and 36.5 grams in russet potatoes. Adults should consume 130 grams of total carbohydrates daily, so eating one potato supplies 21 to 28 percent of your entire day’s carbohydrates. The glycemic rating of potatoes indicates that their high starch content makes them a bad carb. Any score over 70 is high, indicating the food causes a rapid spike in blood sugar. A baked potato has a glycemic score of 111. Boiled white potatoes are rated 82, while sweet potatoes have a score of 70.
Cauliflower (per 3.5 ounces: 25 calories, 5 grams carbohydrates, 3 grams fiber, 2 grams sugar). Cauliflower is probably the most widely-used potato substitute, with countless variations of pureed cauliflower standing in for mashed potatoes. Per serving: 130 calories, 3 grams fat, 1.8 grams saturated fat, 240 mg sodium, 12 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams fiber, 8 grams sugar, 4 grams protein. *****. This rosti, which is similar to a potato latke, is from Kim Kringlie, chef and co-owner of The Dakota in Covington.
Carbs in Potatoes. The favorite choice for the term Potatoes is 1 medium White Potato (Flesh and Skin) which has about 33 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Potatoes is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins.
White and Red Potatoes. White and red varieties of potato, which are easy to find in many supermarkets, have a similar number of carbohydrates per serving. One cup of diced white potatoes, including their skin, contains 23.6 grams of carbs. The same size serving of diced red potatoes, including their skin, has 23.9 grams of carbs. Many consumers prefer the convenience of prepared potato products, such as frozen hash browns, dehydrated potato granules and canned potatoes
According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture Nutrient Data Laboratory, one medium-sized—about 2.25 to 3.25 inches in diameter--baked red potato with the skin contains about 154 calories, 4 grams of protein, almost no fat and 34 grams of carbohydrates. Whether you’re looking to cut carbs or increase your carbohydrate intake, it’s helpful to become familiar with carbohydrate content in foods. Red potatoes are rich in carbohydrates and other beneficial nutrients.
Substitute: Squash for potatoes. Summer squash (the football-shaped yellow kind) tastes similar to potatoes when cooked—but has just a fraction of the carbs. Grate the squash, mix in an egg as binder, make patties, and fry them in olive oil, says Mary Dan Eades, M.D., coauthor of The Low-Carb Comfort Food Cookbook. The best way to cut carbs from your diet is to make creative substitutions, says Arthur Agatston, M.D., author of The South Beach Diet. That way you can still eat the foods you love, without busting your diet.. Dr. Agatston told us how to make cauliflower taste like mashed potatoes.
Red potatoes with skins are rich in carbohydrates, fiber, vitamins and minerals. Whether you’re looking to cut carbs or increase your carbohydrate intake, it’s helpful to become familiar with carbohydrate content in foods. Red potatoes are rich in carbohydrates and other beneficial nutrients. Although eating too many carbs leads to unwanted weight gain, carbohydrates are your body’s main source of fuel—especially if you exercise regularly