Aneuploidy is an abnormal number of chromosomes caused by cell missegregation in mitosis. Aneuploidy causes the imbalance of correct protein stoichiometry. 
Aneuploidy: Related Medical Conditions. To research the causes of Aneuploidy, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Aneuploidy: 1  Abnormal number of chromosomes. 2  Fetal aneuploidy. 3  Chromosome abnormality. 4  Monosomy. 5  Disomy. 6  Trisomy. 7  Tetrasomy. 8  Pentasomy. 
Hunt et al. report that in mice, bisphenol A causes aneuploidy even at extremely low doses. Click here for a detailed explanation of aneuploidy. Aneuploidy is a condition in which cells have the wrong number of chromosomes. It is thought to result from errors in chromosome alignment during cell division. The microscopic photographs to the left show two examples of chromosomal alignment during cell division. The upper is normal. 
Systematic analyses of aneuploid yeast and mouse cells suggest that aneuploidy causes chromosome-specific effects that are elicited by the duplication/deletion of individual genes or combinations of a small number of genes present on the aneuploid chromosome (Torres et al. 2007, 2010; Pavelka et al. 2010; Tang et al. 
Aneuploidy is the presence of an abnormal number of chromosomes in a cell, such as having 45 or 47 chromosomes when 46 is expected. It does not include a difference of one or more complete sets of chromosomes, which is called euploidy. Apart from sex chromosome disorders, most cases of aneuploidy result in death of the developing fetus (miscarriage); the most common extra autosomal chromosomes among live births are 21, 18 and 13.
Aneuploidy. Aneuploidy is the second major category of chromosome mutations in which chromosome number is abnormal. An aneuploid is an individual organism whose chromosome number differs from the wild type by part of a chromosome set.
Far less is understood about its causes. Most cases of meiotic aneuploidy result in spontaneous miscarriage of the fetus. Babies that survive to birth after aneuploidy have birth defects, including Down Syndrome. Meiotic aneuploidy causes 10-20% of birth defects in people. Another type of aneuploidy, mitotic aneuploidy, is associated with virtually all solid tumor cancers. Having the correct number of chromosomes in a cell is key, because chromosomes contain the body's DNA, and DNA is the chemical in which genes are encoded. Aneuploidy is an error in cell division that results in the daughter cells having the wrong number of chromosomes. In some cases there is a missing chromosome, while in others an extra. A great deal is known about the impacts of aneuploidy.
An extra or missing chromosome is a common cause of genetic disorders, including some human birth defects. Some cancer cells also have abnormal numbers of chromosomes. Aneuploidy originates during cell division when the chromosomes do not separate properly between the two cells. Apart from sex chromosome disorders, most cases of aneuploidy result in death of the developing fetus (miscarriage); the most common extra autosomal chromosomes among live births are 21, 18 and 13.