New Zealand Latitude and Longitude Map. Newzealand's latitude and longitude is 41° 00' S and 174 ° 00' E. Below is the map of Newzealand showing major towns, roads, airports with latitudes and longitudes plotted on it.
Location of Wellington on a map. Wellington is a city found in Wellington, New Zealand. It is located -41.29 latitude and 174.78 longitude and it is situated at elevation 31 meters above sea level. Wellington has a population of 381,900 making it the biggest city in Wellington. It operates on the NZDT time zone.
Load Location load a location by coordinates, location name or zip code. Enter the desired value and click the load arrow to the right of the appropriate field. Latitude & longitude accept degrees decimal, degrees minutes decimal or degrees minutes and seconds decimal. See also find address from latitude and longitude. Map Coordinates of mouse displays the latitude and longitude in degrees, minutes, seconds decimal, degrees minutes decimal and degrees decimal of the current mouse location.
The latitude and longitude of the capital of New Zealand, Wellington, is 41 o 28' S and 174 o 51' E. As the longitudes of New Zealand is in extreme east of the Prime Meridian the standard time followed in New Zealand is eleven hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time and seventeen hours ahead of Washington DC. Newzealand's latitude and longitude is 41° 00' S and 174 ° 00' E. Below is the map of Newzealand showing major towns, roads, airports with latitudes and longitudes plotted on it.
RELATIVE LOCATION: Located in the South Pacific Ocean, to the southeast of Australia, New Zealand is geographically positioned in both the southern and eastern hemispheres. This island country is completely surrounded by the Tasman Sea and the Pacific Ocean. 
41 o South and 174 o East is the latitude and longitude of New Zealand which signifies its geographical location. The latitudes and longitudes of New Zealand cover an area of 268,680 square kilometer. Newzealand's latitude and longitude is 41° 00' S and 174 ° 00' E. Below is the map of Newzealand showing major towns, roads, airports with latitudes and longitudes plotted on it.
Auckland, New Zealand Lat Long Coordinates Info. The latitude of Auckland, New Zealand is -36.848461, and the longitude is 174.763336. Auckland, New Zealand is located at New Zealand country in the Cities place category. Coordinates of Auckland, New Zealand is given above in both decimal degrees and DMS (degrees, minutes and seconds) format. The country code given is in the ISO2 format.
Geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) define a position on the Earth's surface. Coordinates are angular units. The canonical form of latitude and longitude representation uses degrees (°), minutes (′), and seconds (″). GPS systems widely use coordinates in degrees and decimal minutes, or in decimal degrees. Latitude varies from −90° to 90°. The latitude of the Equator is 0°; the latitude of the South Pole is −90°; the latitude of the North Pole is 90°. 
Map Coordinates displays the latitude and longitude coordinates in degrees, minutes, seconds decimal, degrees minutes decimal and degrees decimal of the current location. Selected Location displays the reverse geocoded location of the current latitude and longitude (approximation only). See also find address from latitude and longitude. Map Coordinates of mouse displays the latitude and longitude in degrees, minutes, seconds decimal, degrees minutes decimal and degrees decimal of the current mouse location.