Traditional Malay attire is the baju melayu, a loose tunic which is worn over trousers and usually accompanied with a sampin, which is a sarong which is wrapped around a man's hips. It is also often accompanied with a songkok or cap, on their head. Traditional clothing for men in Malaysia consists of a silk or cotton skirt and shirt with a scarf like piece of cloth tied around his waist. This scarf is sewn together at the ends and is traditionally called a sarong or a kain. Most of the clothing is made up of bright and bold colors.
Traditional Malay attire for men is the baju melayu, a loose tunic which is worn over trousers and usually accompanied with a sarong called a sampin which is wrapped around the hips. It is also often accompanied with a songkok or cap. Malay women wear the baju kurung, a knee-length blouse worn over a long skirt. The blouse is long-sleeved and collarless, while the skirt, called a kain, has pleats on one side. A headscarf is sometimes worn with this. Another popular traditional costume is the kebaya, a more tight-fitting two-piece dress.
Baju Melayu (Malay dress or attire) is the general term for the traditional Malay costume for men.Specifically, the traditional Malay costumes for both men and women in Malaysia, are the Baju Kurung Teluk Belanga and the Baju Kurung Cekak Musang.
Baju is the term for clothing in the Malay language. Since Malaysia comprises three major cultures: Malay, Chinese and Indian, each culture has its own traditional and religious articles of clothing all of which are gender specific and may be adapted to local influences and conditions.
On special occasions, people from each ethnic group wear their traditional clothes. Malays: For Malay women, they wear the baju kurung; Malay men wear the baju melayu with a songkok on the head. Alternatively, the men wear batik shirts with trousers.
Men-Malay For the Malay culture, the men wear baju melayu with a songkok or cap, on their head. Traditional clothing for men in Malaysia consists of a silk or cotton skirt and shirt with a scarf like piece of cloth tied around his waist.
The Malaysian women wear the Malaysian traditional dress known as “ Baju Kurung ” which is actually a knee-length blouse worn over a long skirt. The women also wear a scarf or shawl on their traditional dress.