Be sure to get immediate medical care for a dog bite. Minor dog bites are usually flushed clean with sterile water and bandaged loosely. More serious bites can require surgery to fix broken bones or damaged soft tissue. However, it is usually best that bites not be sutured so that any infection can drain from the area. Once you are away from the dog and in a safe place, your first job is to stop the bleeding. Use a clean cloth if possible, but anything handy such as your shirt or a leftover napkin from your lunch will do the trick. Press the makeshift bandage against the wound(s) and elevate the bitten body part above your heart.
Dog bites can cause infections that need to be treated with antibiotics. To care for a dog bite injury at home: 1  Place a clean towel over the injury to stop any bleeding. 2  Try to keep the injured area elevated. 3  Wash the bite carefully with soap and water. 4  Apply a sterile bandage to the wound. 5  Apply antibiotic ointment to the injury every day to prevent infection. 
The dog bite victim needs to be taken to a safe place away from the assailant dog to prevent further attack and injury. Since dog bites can cause significant damage beneath the skin, a type of injury that cannot always easily be appreciated, medical care should be accessed by a health care practitioner. Wounds should be kept elevated and, if possible, washing the wound with tap water may be attempted.
If you think a dog bite is infected, seek medical advice immediately because occasionally an infected animal bite can lead to blood poisoning (sepsis), an infection of the inner lining of the heart (endocarditis) or an infection of the outer layers of the brain (meningitis). If you or someone you know is bitten by a dog, more than likely it will be a minor bite that can be treated at home by following these steps: 1  Clean the wound immediately: run it under warm water for a few minutes to ensure it is thoroughly cleaned.
When a dog bites, the front teeth are used to grasp the victim, while the other teeth pull at the surrounding skin as they bite. The result can be a deep hole in the skin causing a puncture wound, made by the front teeth, and a jagged wound or laceration (cut) with a scraped section of skin, or abrasion. If you or someone you know is bitten by a dog, more than likely it will be a minor bite that can be treated at home by following these steps: 1  Clean the wound immediately: run it under warm water for a few minutes to ensure it is thoroughly cleaned.
You should seek medical evaluation for any animal bite, including a cat or dog bite. One of the main reasons in addition to cleaning and dressing the wound is to screen for rabies. Rabies is uncommon in dogs, cats, and ferrets in the U.S, and bites by these animals carry a very low risk. 
Here are some things your doctor may do to treat a cat or dog bite: 1  Examine the wound for possible nerve damage, tendon damage or bone injury. 2  He or she will also check for signs of infection. 3  Clean the wound with a special solution and remove any damaged tissue. Call your doctor in any of these situations: 1  You have a cat bite. 2  Cat bites often cause infection. 3  You don't need to call your doctor for a cat scratch, unless you think the wound is infected. 4  You have a dog bite on your hand, foot or head, or you have a bite that is deep or gaping.
Like most types of animal bites-including those from humans-dog bites can usually be treated with simple first aid at home to prevent the bite from being infected, which is the most common complication. Animal saliva contains millions of bacteria that can lead to an infection. If you or someone you know is bitten by a dog, more than likely it will be a minor bite that can be treated at home by following these steps: 1  Clean the wound immediately: run it under warm water for a few minutes to ensure it is thoroughly cleaned.
1. Examine the bite. The majority of dog bites will be minor wounds you can treat at home. If the bite barely broke the skin or the teeth dragged to form a shallow scratch, then you can treat the wound at home. 1  This differs from a wound where the tissue is deeply punctured, torn, or joints/bones have been crushed.
Whether from a family pet or a neighborhood stray, cat and dog bites are common. Here are some things you should do to take care of a wound caused by a cat or dog bite: 1  If necessary, call your doctor (see the shaded box below). 2  Wash the wound gently with soap and water. 3  Apply pressure with a clean towel to the injured area to stop any bleeding. 4  Apply a sterile bandage to the wound. Call your doctor in any of these situations: 1  You have a cat bite. 2  Cat bites often cause infection. 3  You don't need to call your doctor for a cat scratch, unless you think the wound is infected. 4  You have a dog bite on your hand, foot or head, or you have a bite that is deep or gaping.