This project highlights current theory in visual ethnography and highlights differences among participant film, EMIC and ETIC statements and social media as tools currently used in anthropological research. 1  Education. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
The topics of VISUAL ETHNOGRAPHY cross visual anthropology, anthropology of media, digital and visual cultures, museography, contemporary art, photography, film studies, cultural studies, anthropology of the senses, anthropological theory. 
Visual ethnography uses photography, motion pictures, hypermedia, the web, interactive CDs, CD—ROMs, and virtual reality as ways of capturing and expressing perceptions and social realities of people. Rather, the visual ethnographer simply pays particular attention to the visual aspects of culture as part of his or her ethnographic efforts. Until recently, mainstream social scientists have been steadfast in their belief that the written word is a superior form for representing most types of data.
Demonstrating the value and validity of visual ethnography, this paper has showcased the intricacies involved with conducting visual ethnographic research and achieving rigor research. Emphasizing a collaborative and reflexive approach to visual ethnography may introduce researchers to perspectives beyond their own. What enables researchers to read cultural experience and interpret visual text is the process of cultural immersion, as per authentic ethnographic research. Within this process Sayre (2001) suggests that fieldwork involving visual text provides a means of documentation, description, and disclosure for fieldwork.
Abstract. Visual methods have a long history in ethnographic research and ethnographic methods are increasingly used to gain a depth of insight and understanding not achievable with traditional marketing research approaches. What enables researchers to read cultural experience and interpret visual text is the process of cultural immersion, as per authentic ethnographic research. Within this process Sayre (2001) suggests that fieldwork involving visual text provides a means of documentation, description, and disclosure for fieldwork.
Your own audio-visual research project. This special MA track Visual Ethnography as a Method combines anthropological theory and hands-on audio-visual practice. Skills are acquired through coursework, but above all through independent academic research. For ‘Visual Ethnography as a method,’ students are only allowed to do fieldwork at a site where they have a good command of the language and have prior knowledge of the field site(s). Normally, students from the Netherlands will conduct fieldwork ‘at home’.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Visual anthropology is a subfield of social anthropology that is concerned, in part, with the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and, since the mid-1990s, new media. More recently it has been used by historians of science and visual culture. 1 Harvard University: Harvard offers a PhD in Social Anthropology with Media in conjunction with its Sensory Ethnography Lab. 2  Heidelberg University: The chair of Visual and Media Anthropology offers BA and MA courses in the field of visual and media anthropology.
It is important, however, to emphasize that visual ethnography is not purely visual. Rather, the visual ethnographer simply pays particular attention to the visual aspects of culture as part of his or her ethnographic efforts. Until recently, mainstream social scientists have been steadfast in their belief that the written word is a superior form for representing most types of data.
Also presenting a visual ethnography, Schembri (2009) demonstrates the use of visual text as a credible research method within marketing and consumer research where the validity of a collaborative and reflexive approach is shown to maintain integrity throughout the research process. What enables researchers to read cultural experience and interpret visual text is the process of cultural immersion, as per authentic ethnographic research. Within this process Sayre (2001) suggests that fieldwork involving visual text provides a means of documentation, description, and disclosure for fieldwork.
Ethnography (from Greek ἔθνος ethnos folk, people, nation and γράφω grapho I write) is the systematic study of people and cultures. It is designed to explore cultural phenomena where the researcher observes society from the point of view of the subject of the study. An ethnography is a means to represent graphically and in writing the culture of a group. The word 'Ethnography' is derived from the Greek ἔθνος (ethnos), ethnós meaning a, company later a, people nation ' -and graphy meaning field of. Study ethnographic studies focus on large cultural groups of people who interact over. time