(Note that the most recent guidelines do not recommend HPV testing at all for girls under 20.). Repeat HPV tests. If you are over 30, how often you need to repeat the HPV test depends on your past results. For example, if both your Pap and HPV test results are normal, re-testing is needed just once every three years. Visit the section in this Web site on  What the Test Results Mean to You  for more information. Q. 
The Pap test helps identify women at risk for developing cervical cancer. Women 21-30 should get a Pap test every three years. Women over 30 should get a combined Pap test and HPV test every five years. If HPV testing is not available, they may get a Pap test every three years. Screening may be stopped for women over age 65 who have been adequately screened with normal results and are not at high risk for cervical screening. You should start cervical cancer tests at age 21. Women between ages 21 and 29 should have a Pap test every 3 years. Women between the ages of 30 and 65 should have a Pap test plus an HPV test every 5 years. Alternatively, you could continue hainge a Pap test alone every 3 years.
1 If you are between ages 21 and 29, you should get a Pap test every 3 years. 2  If you are between ages 30 and 64, you should get a Pap test and human papillomavirus (HPV) test together every 5 years or a Pap test alone every 3 years. Talk with your doctor about what is best for you. Most women can follow these guidelines: 1 
How often you should get a Pap test depends on your age. The first Pap test is recommended at age 21, regardless of sexual history or sexual activity. From ages 21 to 29, it's recommended that you have a Pap smear every three years. You should start cervical cancer tests at age 21. Women between ages 21 and 29 should have a Pap test every 3 years. Women between the ages of 30 and 65 should have a Pap test plus an HPV test every 5 years. Alternatively, you could continue hainge a Pap test alone every 3 years.
Repeat HPV tests. If you are over 30, how often you need to repeat the HPV test depends on your past results. For example, if both your Pap and HPV test results are normal, re-testing is needed just once every three years. Visit the section in this Web site on What the Test Results Mean to You for more information. Q. If you are not sure whether you have already had the HPV test, ask! If you are between the ages of 20 and 30, HPV testing should only be used when your Pap result is inconclusive (also called an ASC-US Pap). That’s because the infection is very common in younger women, but almost always temporary and harmless.
1 Pap test. 2  Pap tests, which check the cervix for abnormal cells, are recommended every three years for women between ages 21 and 65. 3  HPV test. 4  Women over 30 may be offered the option to have the HPV test along with a Pap test every five years if previous tests were normal. 1 Pap tests, which check the cervix for abnormal cells, are recommended every three years for women between ages 21 and 65. 2  HPV test. 3
1 For women 21-29 years old: A Pap test every three years is sufficient. 2  For women 30-65 years old: A Pap test should be performed every five years with an HPV test at the same time or every three years without an HPV test. 3  If your Pap test is abnormal, your doctor will advise you on the next step and future Pap testing. 1 Women over 30 years old should be tested for HPV if possible when they have a Pap test. 2  The combination of Pap test and HPV test results can allow less frequent screening in some women over 30.
1 If your Pap test is normal and/or you have a negative HPV test, then you do not have to have a Pap test every year. 2  For women 21-29 years old: A Pap test every three years is sufficient. 1 Women over 30 years old should be tested for HPV if possible when they have a Pap test. 2  The combination of Pap test and HPV test results can allow less frequent screening in some women over 30.
1 If you are between ages 30 and 64, you should get a Pap test and human papillomavirus (HPV) test together every 5 years or a Pap test alone every 3 years. 2  If you are 65 or older, ask your doctor if you can stop having Pap tests. Talk with your doctor about what is best for you. Most women can follow these guidelines: 1  If you are between ages 21 and 29, you should get a Pap test every 3 years. 2 