Yep, those are all other names for the Baobab tree and if you ask us, a lot more catchy than Adansonia Digitata. Call the Baobab Tree what you like, but anyway you look at it-it is one impressive tree. The Baobab tree has been around for thousands of years, and many Baobab trees are believed to be over 150 years old. We say believed to be because the Baobab tree does not have rings. 
The scientific name of the Baobab, Adansonia digitata comes from the French explorer and botanist, Michel Adanson (1727-1806). He officially discovered it in 1749 on the island of Sor in Senegal. 
Baobab is the common name of a genus of trees (Adansonia). There are eight species. Six species live in the drier parts of Madagascar, one in mainland Africa, and one in Australia. The baobab is the national tree of Madagascar. The baobab tree is known as the tree of life, with good reason. It can provide shelter, clothing, food, and water for the animal and human inhabitants of the African savannah regions. The cork-like bark and huge stem are fire resistant and are used for making cloth and rope.
Baobab is a tree native to Africa, Madagascar, Australia, and Arabia. The tree is used as a source of water and food for indigenous people. Fruit and leaves of the tree are used medicinally for asthma, mosquito repellent, and for allergic skin conditions. 
Maybe you have heard the media buzzing about the Baobab Fruit or Baobab Fruit Supplements, well, take 3 minutes and learn all about the Baobab Fruit and the Baobab Tree. The Baobab tree is also called Adansonia Digitata tree, The Monkey Bread Tree, The Upside Down Tree and The Tree of Life. The Adansonia genus grows in Africa, Madagascar and Australia. The species, Adansonia Digitata grows in South Africa and bears the Baobab Fruit. The Baobab Fruit is about 7 inches long, weighs about 3 pounds and has a hard outer shell, like a coconut. When you crack the Baobab shell open, you find that the Baobab fruit pulp naturally dehydrates in the shell.
There are eight species of Adansonia tree, but only one baobab tree (Adansonia digitata), native to the African mainland. Six of its relatives live in Madagascar and one in Australia. It is a tiny-and very distinctive family. The Tree of Life. The baobab is also incredibly useful-so much so that Disney's Lion King named it the Tree of Life. It behaves like a giant succulent and up to 80% of the trunk is water. San nomads used rely on the trees as a valuable source of water when the rains failed and the rivers dried.
Adansonia trees produce faint growth rings, probably annually, but they are not reliable for aging specimens, because they are difficult to count and may fade away as the wood ages. Radiocarbon dating has provided data on a few individuals. The tree has since split into two parts, so the widest individual trunk may now be that of the Sunland baobab, or Platland tree, also in South Africa. The diameter of this tree at ground level is 9.3 m (31 ft) and its circumference at breast height is 34 m (112 ft).
The baobab is found in the savannas of African and India, mostly around the equator. It can grow up to 25 meters tall and can live for several thousand years. The baobab is leafless for nine months of the year. Next came the slender, graceful palm tree. When the baobab saw the palm tree, it cried out that it wanted to be taller. Then the beautiful flame tree appeared with its red flower and the baobab was envious for flower blossoms. When the baobab saw the magnificent fig tree, it prayed for fruit as well.
Baobab is the common name for the trees of the genus Adansonia — along with the names boab, boaboa, bottle tree, upside-down tree, and monkey bread tree. 