Magnification:Transverse &Angular. The linear magnification or transverse magnification is the ratio of the image size to the object size. If the image and object are in the same medium it is just the image distance divided by the object distance. The angular magnification of an instrument is the ratio of the angle subtended at the eye when using the instrument divided by the angular size without the instrument. An important example is the simple magnifier. The angular magnification of any optical system can be obtained from the system matrix for the system.
The magnification, m, is defined as the ratio of the image height to the object height, which is closely related to the ratio of the image distance to the object distance: A magnification of 1 (plus or minus) means that the image is the same size as the object. If m has a magnitude greater than 1 the image is larger than the object, and an m with a magnitude less than 1 means the image is smaller than the object. If the magnification is positive, the image is upright compared to the object; if m is negative, the image is inverted compared to
1. : the act of magnifying. 2. a: the state of being magnified b: the apparent enlargement of an object by an optical instrument that is the ratio of the dimensions of an image formed by the instrument to the corresponding dimensions of the object—called also power. Full Definition of MAGNIFICATION. 1. : the act of magnifying. 2. a: the state of being magnified b: the apparent enlargement of an object by an optical instrument —called also power. See magnification defined for English-language learners. See magnification defined for kids.
Question 2: Find the size of the image from relation of the linear magnification of lens, the size of the object is 1 cm is place at a distance of 15cm from a concave mirror and the image is formed at a distance 30cm on the side of the object. Solution: or. In terms of image distance (v) and object distance (u), the linear magnification is equal to the ratio of the image distance to the object distance. m = $\frac{v}{u}$ If m is positive, then the image is erect and when m is negative the image is inverted.
magnification. n. 1. (General Physics) the act of magnifying or the state of being magnified. 2. (General Physics) the degree to which something is magnified. 3. a copy, photograph, drawing, etc, of something magnified. 
The angular magnification, M, (also sometimes called magnifying power) produced by an optical instrument is defined as. An expression for the angular magnification produced by a telescope can easily be found by looking at ray diagrams. An astronomical telescope consists of a long focal length (low power) convex lens (the object lens or objective) and a short focal length (high power) convex lens, the eye lens. 
Let the angular size of an object, and angular size of the image after passing through an optical system. Then the angular magnification is defined by. 