Application of ice reduces the pain and inflammation during the first 24 to 48 hours following your shoulder injury. You may put an ice pack, a bag of frozen vegetables or a towel filled with ice on the affected shoulder for 15 to 20 minutes at a time, 4 to 8 times a day. Apply ice for about 20 minutes. Shoulder pain may not be a life threatening medical condition but without the right approach, the pain may limit your arm movement and affect the quality of your life. Your shoulder pain may affect your activities of daily living, such as: 1  brushing your teeth. 2  combing your hair. 3  putting a book on a shelf.
A common cause of shoulder pain is soreness of the tendon (a cord that attaches a muscle to a bone) of the rotator cuff (the part of the shoulder that helps circular motion). If the rotator cuff is involved, the pain is usually in the front or outside of the shoulder. This pain is usually worse when you raise your arm or lift something above your head. The pain can be bad enough to keep you from doing even the simplest tasks. Pain at night is common, and it may be bad enough to wake you
Furthermore, shoulder pain sometimes originates from other areas of the body such as the neck, mid back or even the heart. In most cases, using common sense and following some simple home remedies will be enough to stop your shoulder pain, but in some cases, treatment from a health professional is necessary. Do some light shoulder stretches. If your shoulder pain is primarily achy in nature and doesn't involve sharp, stabbing or shooting pain with movement or a dislocation, then likely you're experiencing a muscle strain.
Pain can also occur in the shoulder from diseases or conditions that involve the shoulder joint (including arthritis), the soft tissues and bones surrounding the shoulder, or the nerves that supply sensation to the shoulder area. Occasionally, shoulder pain can be a result of a heart attack. Shoulder pain can be a result of injury or disease of the shoulder joint. Injury can affect any of the ligaments, bursae, or tendons surrounding the shoulder joint. Injury can also affect the ligaments, cartilage, menisci (plural for meniscus), and bones of the joint.
Frozen shoulder (adhesive capsulitis) is stiffness, pain, and limited range of movement in your shoulder. It may happen after an injury or overuse or from a disease such as diabetes or a stroke. The tissues around the joint stiffen, scar tissue forms, and shoulder movements become difficult and painful. Frozen shoulder can develop when you stop using the joint normally because of pain, injury, or a chronic health condition, such as diabetes or a stroke. Any shoulder problem can lead to frozen shoulder if you do not work to keep full range of motion. Frozen shoulder occurs: 1  After surgery or injury.
If your shoulder is painful to lie on, the following positions may reduce the discomfort: 1  Lie on your good side with a pillow under your neck. 2  Use a folded pillow to support your painful arm in front of your body. 3  Another pillow behind your back can stop you rolling back onto your painful side. When raising your arm, you can reduce the strain or pull on your shoulder by: 1  keeping your elbow bent and in front of your body. 2  keeping your palm facing the ceiling when reaching up.
Treatment and Management of Shoulder Pain. Shoulder pain may not be a life threatening medical condition but without the right approach, the pain may limit your arm movement and affect the quality of your life. Your shoulder pain may affect your activities of daily living, such as: 1  brushing your teeth. 2  combing your hair. 3  putting a book on a shelf.
A number of factors and conditions can contribute to shoulder pain. The most prevalent cause is rotator cuff tendinitis, a condition where the tendons are inflamed. Sometimes shoulder pain is the result of injury to another location in your body — usually the neck or bicep. Diagnosing the Cause of Shoulder Pain. Your doctor will want to find out the cause of your shoulder pain. Your doctor will conduct a physical examination, feeling for injury, and assessing your range of motion and joint stability. Imaging tests, such as an X-ray or MRI, can produce detailed pictures of your shoulder to help with the diagnosis