Summary: The domain of a function is all the possible input values for which the function is defined, and the range is all possible output values. If you are still confused about domain and range, you might consider posting your question on our message board, or reading another website's lesson on domain and range. What kind of functions don't have a domain of all real numbers? Well, if the domain is the set of all real numbers for which the function is defined, then logically we're looking for a function that has certain input values that do not produce a valid output, i.e., the function is undefined for that input. Here is an example: This function is defined for almost any real x
The mean is the average you're used to, where you add up all the numbers and then divide by the number of numbers. The median is the middle value in the list of numbers. To find the median, your numbers have to be listed in numerical order, so you may have to rewrite your list first. 
To change a value’s state, proceed as follows: Set selected domain values as corrected: To change a value’s state from Error or Invalid to Correct, select the value, and then click the Set selected domain values as corrected (check) from the down-arrow in the icon bar or from the Type drop-down list. From the Domain list on the Domain Management page, select the domain that you want to change values in or create a new domain. If you have to create a new domain, see Create a Domain. Click the Domain Values tab. Display the values that you need to modify in the Value table.
In mathematics, and more specifically in naive set theory, the domain of definition (or simply the domain) of a function is the set of input or argument values for which the function is defined. That is, the function provides an output or value for each member of the domain. Given a function f: X → Y, the set X is the domain of f; the set Y is the codomain of f. In the expression f (x), x is the argument and f (x) is the value. One can think of an argument as an input to the function, and the value as the output.
Since x = 2 gives me two possible destinations, then this relation is not a function. Note that all I had to do to check whether the relation was a function was to look for duplicate x-values. If you find a duplicate x-value, then the different y-values mean that you do not have a function. State the domain and range of the following relation. The domain is all the x-values, and the range is all the y-values. To give the domain and the range, I just list the values without duplication: domain: {2, 3, 4, 6}. range: {–3, –1, 3, 6}. (It is customary to list these values in numerical order, but it is not required.
In a sense, you rent space on a computer to hold your website. Your host, the computer where your website files are stored, assigns an address (DNS) for your files to your domain name so that anyone can find your website on the Internet by typing in your domain name. 
Domain of a function. more ... All the values that go into a function The output values are called the range. Domain → Function → Range Example: when the function f(x) = x2 is given the values x = {1,2,3,...} then {1,2,3,...} is the domain. See: Range of a function. Domain, Range and Codomai
Definition. Domain: The domain of a function is the set of all possible input values (often the x variable), which produce a valid output from a particular function. What kind of functions don't have a domain of all real numbers? Well, if the domain is the set of all real numbers for which the function is defined, then logically we're looking for a function that has certain input values that do not produce a valid output, i.e., the function is undefined for that input. Here is an example: This function is defined for almost any real x