Home Treatment. Ankle sprains take an average of 6 weeks to heal but can take can up to 4 months, depending on the severity. An ankle brace, air stirrup, hiking boots, or other form of ankle support should be worn during this time to protect the ligaments. Some people who have repeated or severe sprains can develop long-term joint pain and weakness. Treating a sprained ankle can help prevent ongoing ankle problems. Rehabilitation (rehab) exercises for an ankle sprain can be done at home to promote proper healing and prevent chronic pain and instability.
Grade 3 Sprain. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely. Physicians usually immobilize the joint and prescribe physical therapy, just as with a grade 2 sprain. Most grade 2 sprains take four to six weeks to heal. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely.
Answer by Nick Zumbo. Confidence votes 4. My German Shorthaired pointer also has a shoulder sprain, and it can take 2 - 4 weeks for it to heal. I recommend to help them rehabilitate it gentle massage on the sprain, frozen peas to chill it, and gentle movement. Do this after the first week. 
How long does it take for a should sprain to heal in a dog? My German Shorthaired pointer also has a shoulder sprain, and it  can take 2 - 4 weeks for it to heal. I recommend to help them  rehabilitate it gentle massage on the sprain … , frozen peas to chill  it, and gentle movement. Do this after the first week. How long it can take for a sprained knee to heel is dependent upon  the severity of the injury and the patients capacity to heal. It  could take anywhere from a few weeks to … a couple of months for  healing to occur. 1 person found this useful.
1 A dog with a sprain will often try not to put weight on the affected leg. 2  Depending on the severity, the dog may carry the leg in a raised position, not using it at all. 3  Be aware of other common reasons for rear leg lameness. 4  Injuries to the hip, knee, or foot area can also cause a dog to limp. To reduce swelling, help with pain, and aid in the healing process, apply an ice pack for 10 to 15 minutes. 1  Wrap the ice pack in a towel to protect the dog's skin from any excessive cold. 2  Repeated as needed, waiting at least two hours between applications.
As you can imagine, that's going to really impact just how long it takes for that ligament to heal itself back together. General rule of thumb, say for ankle sprain, perhaps a grade one: two, three weeks; grade two: four weeks; and a grade three: sometimes four, six weeks -- sometimes longer. Comments. . Answer: Well, when considering how long it might take for a sprain to heal, you need to consider that there are varying degrees of sprain injuries.
With a grade one sprain, there is slight instability, pain, swelling, joint stiffness, and trouble walking. Grade two sprains can take 4 to 6 weeks to heal. This involves partial tearing of the ligaments. Signs of a grade two sprain include instability, moderate to severe pain, swelling, stiffness and possible bruising. Grade three sprains can take 8 to 12 weeks to heal. This is a complete tear of the ligament. With grade three sprains, there is a lot of instability within the joint, severe pain when the injury occurs and no pain after injury, severe swelling and excessive bruising. A Dr. Holman Chan, MD, Foot & Ankle Surgery, answered on behalf of Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center. How long it takes to recover from a sprained ankle can be from one week to one year, says Holman Chan, MD, an orthopedic surgeon at Sunrise Hospital.