Sodium metal has a relatively small, but important, number of uses. For example, it is sometimes used as a heat exchange medium in nuclear power plants. A heat exchange medium is a material that picks up heat in one place and carries it to another place.
The most common compound of sodium is sodium chloride (common salt). It is added to food and used to de-ice roads in winter. It is also used as a feedstock for the chemical industry. Sodium carbonate (washing soda) is also a useful sodium salt.
Sodium chloride (table salt) crystals. Sodium carbonate is also used to make a very large number of commercial products, such as glass, pulp and paper, soaps and detergents, and textiles. Sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3). When sodium bicarbonate is dissolved in water, it produces a fizzing reaction.
Sodium hydroxide is a corrosive chemical sometimes known as lye or caustic soda. It has the chemical formula NaOH. In solid form, sodium hydroxide is white and has a very high melting point. Sodium hydroxide is a strong base that can be dissolved in water.
Sodium hydroxide is a powerful chemical with many aliases: NaOH, lye and caustic soda. Sodium hydroxide is often the active agent in cleaning solutions, but it is also used in the manufacturing of products like textiles, cellophane and paper. This chemical can be very dangerous and can severely damage materials.
1 Soda ash (Na2CO3) , or sodium carbonate, is used in the manufacture of glass, paper, rayon, soaps, and detergents. 2  It is also used as a water softener, since carbonate can precipitate the calcium and magnesium ions present in hard water.
Sodium is a member of the alkali metals family. The alkali family consists of elements in Group 1 (IA) of the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to one another. Other Group 1 (IA) elements are lithium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, and francium.
Sodium chloride is an ionic compound found in various foods and medical treatments. More commonly referred to as “salt” or “table salt,” sodium chloride is used as a seasoning in many foods. Medically, sodium chloride solutions are used in catheter flush injections or intravenous infusions, and for cleaning objects such as contact lenses in the form of saline.