Tay-Sachs disease is a rare disorder passed from parents to child. In the most common form, a baby about 6 months old will begin to show symptoms. Tay-Sachs disease results when an enzyme that helps break down fatty substances is absent. 
General Discussion. Tay-Sachs disease is a rare, neurodegenerative disorder in which deficiency of an enzyme (hexosaminidase A) results in excessive accumulation of certain fats (lipids) known as gangliosides in the brain and nerve cells. It is possible that the main title of the report Tay Sachs Disease is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
Tay-Sachs disease is a rare metabolic disorder with severe neurologic (nervous system) symptoms. Metabolic refers to the body's chemical processes that produce protein and other substances, and break down nutrients to release energy. Tay-Sachs disease is a metabolic disorder because it is caused by the absence of the enzyme (a type of protein) hexosaminidase A (Hex-A). Hex-A is necessary for breaking down fatty substances called lipids. Without Hex-A, these lipids build up in, and eventually destroy, the nerve cells in the brain.
Infants with Tay-Sachs disease appear to develop normally for the first few months of life. Then, as nerve cells become distended with fatty material, a relentless deterioration of mental and physical abilities occurs. The child becomes blind, deaf, and unable to swallow. Muscles begin to atrophy and paralysis sets in. 
Tay-Sachs disease (the most severe form of Hexosaminidase A deficiency) is a progressive, fatal genetic condition that affects the nerve cells in the brain. All people have two copies of the Tay-Sachs gene (HEXA). Tay-Sachs occurs when neither of a person's HEXA genes is working properly because of a mutation (harmful change). If a person has one working copy of the HEXA gene and the other copy has a mutation in it, he/she is called a carrier..
Children with Tay-Sachs disease lack a vital enzyme, hexosaminidase A (Hex-A). Hex-A is needed for the body to break down a fatty waste substance found in brain cells. Without Hex-A, this substance accumulates abnormally and causes progressive damage until the nervous system can no longer sustain life. 
The cause of Tay-Sachs disease is a genetic defect (mutation) that is passed from parent to child. This genetic defect is located in the HEXA gene, which is found on chromosome 15. The HEXA gene makes part of an enzyme called beta-hexosaminidase A, which plays a critical role in the nervous system. 
Tay-Sachs disease is caused by a mutation in the HEXA gene. A genetic mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene. It causes one or more processes of the body to not work properly. A mutated HEXA gene results in the body not producing an enzyme called Hexosaminidase-A (Hex-A). Tay-Sachs disease is a rare and usually fatal genetic disorder that causes progressive damage to the nervous system. Symptoms usually begin before a baby is six months old. Their development slows down and they gradually lose their ability to move.
Tay-Sachs disease is caused by a defective gene on chromosome 15. When both parents carry the defective Tay-Sachs gene, a child has a 25% chance of developing the disease. The child must receive two copies of the defective gene -- one from each parent -- in order to become sick. If only one parent passes the defective gene to the child, the child is called a carrier. Back to Top Causes. Tay-Sachs disease occurs when the body lacks hexosaminidase A, a protein that helps break down a chemical found in nerve tissue called gangliosides. Without this protein, gangliosides, particularly ganglioside GM2, build up in cells, especially nerve cells in the brain.
Tay-Sachs is a disease of the central nervous system; it is a neurodegenerative disorder. Tay-Sachs most commonly affects infants. In infants, it is a progressive disease that is unfortunately always fatal. Rarely, Tay-Sachs can occur in teens and adults, causing less severe symptoms. A defective gene on chromosome 15 causes Tay-Sachs disease. This defective gene causes the body to not make a protein called hexosaminidase A. Without this protein, chemicals called gangliosides build up in nerve cells in the brain, destroying brain cells.