The object of this test is to see what range of motion you have as well as to increase flexibility in your chest, shoulders and biceps. The flexibility of these muscles plays a major role in your posture. If any of these muscles are tight, they can cause you to be round shouldered and slightly hunchbacked. Props: Sticky tape. Perform test: Standing tall away from the wall with your butt and back resting against the wall. Holding a piece of tape in your right hand, side bend over to the right without collapsing on the underneath side. Place a sticky as far down the leg as you can whilst maintaining good form.
Indirect flexibility tests usually involve the linear measurement of distances between segments or from an external object. Direct flexibility methods measure angular displacements between adjacent segments or from an external reference. 
See how you stand up against these flexibility standards and learn how to improve if you fall short. The overwhelming desire to hit the shower immediately post-run and pass on a few minutes of stretching may detrimentally impact your performance going forward. How to Do It: One area that typically gets tight on the majority of runners is the hip flexors. To test your flexibility in this area, lie face-up on the very end of a massage table. Pull one knee into your chest. Your other leg should be hanging freely in the air — not in contact with the ground.
The following are three ways to test your flexibility. The idea of testing is to become aware that tightness in certain muscle groups can lead to injury if you are not careful during fitness workouts. Use these flexibility tests as a benchmark for your current range of motion and work on increasing it. Props: Sticky tape. Perform test: Standing tall away from the wall with your butt and back resting against the wall. Holding a piece of tape in your right hand, side bend over to the right without collapsing on the underneath side. Place a sticky as far down the leg as you can whilst maintaining good form.
The sit and reach test is the most common flexibility test. It measures the flexibility of the lower back and hamstrings. It requires a box about 30cm (12 inches) high and a meter rule: 1. Sit on the floor with your back and head against a wall. Legs should be out straight ahead and knees flat against the floor. 2. Have someone place the box flat against your feet (no shoes). Keeping your back and head against the wall stretch your arms out towards the box.
The sit and reach test is a common measure of flexibility, and specifically measures the flexibility of the lower back and hamstring muscles. This test is important as because tightness in this area is implicated in lumbar lordosis, forward pelvic tilt and lower back pain. 1 advantages: The sit and reach test is a common test of flexibility, and is an easy and quick test to perform. 2  If using the standard testing procedure, there is a lot of published data to use for comparison. 3  disadvantages: Variations in arm, leg and trunk length can make comparisons between individuals misleading.
The most accurate tests of flexibility are those in which a goniometer is used to measure the actual degrees of rotation of the various joints. A goniometer is a protractor type of instrument used to measure the joint angle at both extremes in the total range of movement. Because hip flexors and hip extensors play a critical role in supporting a person’s posture and avoiding low back discomfort, assessing flexibility of these muscle groups is important. Therefore, included are two simple tests that can provide information about the flexibility of these muscle groups.
Flexibility Tests. Use these flexibility tests before you begin a stretching program and then every 6-8 weeks during your flexibility training. Before you perform these tests make sure you warm up thoroughly with 10 minutes of light jogging or skipping. Click here for details on how to put together a battery of physical fitness tests. 1. Sit on the floor with your back and head against a wall. Legs should be out straight ahead and knees flat against the floor. 2. Have someone place the box flat against your feet (no shoes). Keeping your back and head against the wall stretch your arms out towards the box.
Repeat this in a week's time with the same test and compare results to see if your flexibility has increased. The object of this flexibility test is to test the flexibility and range of motion in your lower back and obliques (side abdominal muscles). Props: Sticky tape. Perform test: Standing tall away from the wall with your butt and back resting against the wall. Holding a piece of tape in your right hand, side bend over to the right without collapsing on the underneath side. Place a sticky as far down the leg as you can whilst maintaining good form.