Flexeril, a generic variety of the medication cyclobenzaprine, is a muscle relaxer that is usually prescribed for the short-term relief of muscle spasms. Flexeril is also sometimes used for long-term conditions such as chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. However, Soma is not as widely prescribed as other muscle relaxers because it may become addictive. Soma has a strong sedative effect and also causes headaches, skin rashes, dizziness, vomiting, increased heart rate and clumsiness.
1 Carisoprodol (Soma) . 2  This drug's dosage is 350mg every eight hours as needed for muscle spasm. 3  Soma is typically prescribed on a short-term basis and may be habit-forming, especially if used in conjunction with alcohol or other drugs that have a sedative effect. 4  Also see Pain Killer Addiction Treatment. Medications for Back Pain Video. Muscle relaxants are not really a class of drugs, but rather a group of different drugs that each has an overall sedative effect on the body. These drugs do not act directly on the muscles; rather they act centrally (in the brain) and are more of a total body relaxant.
Non habit-forming muscle relaxers. Public Forum Discussions. .i was taking tramadol,tylenol,ibuprofen, diclofenac without any results.the only thing that helps me is muscle relaxants as diazepam ,because my back muscle tension cause the pain. Please advice me is there any muscle ... 
Typically, muscle relaxants are prescribed early in a course of back pain, on a short-term basis, to relieve low back pain associated with muscle spasms. There are several types of muscle relaxant medications that are commonly used to treat low back pain. Medications for Back Pain Video. Muscle relaxants are not really a class of drugs, but rather a group of different drugs that each has an overall sedative effect on the body. These drugs do not act directly on the muscles; rather they act centrally (in the brain) and are more of a total body relaxant.
Again, it is ONLY for muscle spasms or any other muscle problem. It will NOT help with the pain in your back. I suggest you call your doctor and ask for something else. There are several muscle relaxers that are not habit forming and work for that issue. Let us know how you are doing and what you decided.
Carisoprodol is a medication that is used to help with all sorts of muscle conditions. It is a relaxant that gives its best in skeletal muscles. It stops the pain caused my muscle problems. Still, you have to be aware there are some side effects and those might be quite problematic: headache, dizziness, stomach problems and allergic reaction. Hello Angelo, Hope you are doing well. Further to answer you, my reply is yes carisoprodol is a drug with habit forming behavior if used for long. This is why doctors prescribe this drug with only 3 to 4 weeks use. As prolonged use of this medicine can cause addiction in the user and also withdrawal syndrome.
Side Effects of Muscle Relaxants. All muscle relaxants are associated with side effects, and you should be monitored carefully while taking any type of this medication. The most common side effects include dry mouth, drowsiness, and constipation. As with benzodiazepines, muscle relaxants can also be habit forming. Muscle relaxants should not be taken for extended periods of time unless under the direction of a health care professional. Instead, muscle relaxants help to mask pain, enabling you to get on with your daily life. Like benzodiazepines, muscle relaxants also work on the brain. These medications work to reduce your brain’s ability to sense pain, allowing you to relax.
If you struggle with any of these symptoms, contact your doctor immediately. Medical attention may be required. Zanaflex, which his also known as tizanidine generically, is a muscle relaxant. It is used for a variety of muscular-related conditions including muscle tightness, cramps, spasms and more. A prescription medication, tizandine may be helpful in alleviating the symptoms of multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injuries. 
In U.S. there are no really any muscle relaxers that you can get over-the-counter. But this is not a problem, as you can get an online prescription for a muscle relaxer, and there are several good ones that are not habit forming. References. 1  1. Toth PP, Urtis J. Commonly used muscle relaxant therapies for acute low back pain: a review of carisoprodol, cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride, and metaxalone. Carisoprodol is available as generic, and in various brand forms such as Soma, Vanadom. Cyclobenzaprine. Cyclobenzaprine is the most well studied muscle relaxant and has been shown to be effective for various musculoskeletal conditions. Its chemical structure is similar to that of the tricyclics.