Tweet. : a usually stone or concrete structure that supports a building from underneath. : something (such as an idea, a principle, or a fact) that provides support for something. : an organization that is created and supported with money that people give in order to do something that helps society. 
DEFINITION of 'Private Foundation'. A charitable organization that, while serving a good cause, does not qualify as a public charity by government standards.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. A foundation is defined as an organization set up to finance or complete projects, usually for a non-profit organization such as a school or a church. An example of a foundation is a charity that helps feed hungry children. Foundation means the supporting structure of a home
The IRS classifies every 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization as either a private foundation or a public charity. The distinction is based on the organization's funding sources as well as the activities in which it engages. Support can come in the form of donations from individuals as well as grants from the government and private foundations. To qualify as a public charity, a nonprofit must meet the requirements of section 509(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
See also: Private foundation. A foundation (also a charitable foundation) is a legal categorization of nonprofit organizations that will typically either donate funds and support to other organizations, or provide the source of funding for its own charitable purposes. There is no commonly accepted legal definition in Europe for a foundation. There is a proposal for a European Foundation, a legal form that would be recognised throughout Europe, see European Foundation Project.
An example of a private foundation is the Ford Foundation. In contrast, a grantmaking public charity (sometimes referred to as a public foundation) derives its support from diverse sources, which may include foundations, individuals, and government agencies. Please be aware that “foundation” is not a legal term, so if an organization has the word in its name, do not assume that it is a grantmaking organization. For example, the Foundation Center is not a grantmaker.
A: A foundation is a non-governmental entity that is established as a nonprofit corporation or a charitable trust, with a principal purpose of making grants to unrelated organizations, institutions, or individuals for scientific, educational, cultural, religious, or other charitable purposes. Please be aware that “foundation” is not a legal term, so if an organization has the word in its name, do not assume that it is a grantmaking organization. For example, the Foundation Center is not a grantmaker.
See also: Foundation (nonprofit). Chart of a foundation. A private foundation is a legal entity set up by an individual, a family or a group of individuals, for a purpose such as philanthropy or an object legal in the economic operation. A private foundation, in the United States, is a charitable organization described in the Internal Revenue Code by section 509. A private foundation is necessarily a 501(c)(3) exempt organization (or a former such entity). It is defined by a negative definition: by what it is not. A private foundation is not a public charity, as described in section 170(b)(1)(A) (i) through (vi). Neither is it a section 509(a)(2) organization, nor a supporting organiz