The goal of laparoscopic colpopexy is to re-suspend the vagina and associated pelvic organs through the key-hole incisions. In certain circumstances, a simultaneous hysterectomy, bladder suspension, or rectocele repair may be required, all of which can be accomplished through a vaginal approach. A Johns Hopkins Medicine answered. Laparoscopic colpopexy is a minimally invasive surgical technique to treat pelvic organ prolapse, which is when the vagina and the surrounding organs lose their support and fall from their normal positions.
Laparoscopic Abdominal Sacral Colpopexy. The abdominal sacral colpopexy is performed in patients with vaginal vault prolapse. Laparoscopic abdominal sacral colpopexy is performed using several small incisions. A synthetic mesh is used to support the vagina to the sacral promontory inside the pelvis. Prior to surgery you will be asked to do a bowel prep and a clear liquid diet
Sacral colpopexy is a surgical procedure designed for correction of prolapse of the vagina. It is an ideal procedure for those women who are sexually active but who have total prolapse of the vaginal canal. Prolapse of the vagina can occur following a hysterectomy or with the uterus in place. 
A colpopexy is a common occurrence in women who have had a hysterectomy. Vaginal prolapse might occur in women as a result of menopause. A vaginal prolapse may occur as a result of childbirth. A colpopexy is done to reposition a woman's vagina. A hysterectomy is a surgical procedure in which the uterus is removed. In most colpopexy procedures, the vagina is sutured to the sacrospinous ligament in order to hold it in place. Patients should receive plenty of rest following a colpopexy. A sacral colpopexy is an invasive procedure that involves an incision in the abdominal wall
Sacro-colpopexy is a surgical procedure in which mesh is used to suspend the uterus / the vaginal vault to the sacrum. What are the benefits of laparoscopic sacro-colpopexy? The benefits of laparoscopic sacro-colpopexy include those seen in laparoscopic pelvic floor repair-high success rates (over 90%), good anatomical restoration, little post-operative pain, reduced risk of painful vaginal scars and avoidance of vaginal strictures.
Practice Essentials. Sacrocolpopexy (sacral colpopexy) is a surgical technique for repairing pelvic organ prolapse. Reconstruction is achieved with an open abdominal technique or with the use of minimally invasive techniques. Specifically, it is intended to address apical or vaginal vault prolapse in women. Reconstruction is achieved using an open abdominal technique or with the use of minimally invasive surgery, such as laparoscopy or robotic-assisted surgery.
Sacrocolpopexy (sacral colpopexy) is a surgical technique to repair pelvic organ prolapse. Specifically, it is intended to address apical or vaginal vault prolapse in women. Reconstruction is achieved using an open abdominal technique or with the use of minimally invasive surgery, such as laparoscopy or robotic-assisted surgery.
Colpopexy is a surgical procedure used to reposition a woman’s vagina that has moved from its correct physical location. A hysterectomy is a surgical procedure in which the uterus is removed. In most colpopexy procedures, the vagina is sutured to the sacrospinous ligament in order to hold it in place. Patients should receive plenty of rest following a colpopexy.