The chemical that gives human skin its color is called melanin, and the production of too much in one area leads to freckles, liver spots, and other patches of darker skin. These dark spots on your face, which are also called hyper-pigmentation. 1 Mix well, and apply to your face. 2  Leave it on for 30 minutes, then rinse well. 3  Make a citrus and powdered milk scrub. 4  Combine 1 teaspoon each of water, powdered milk and the juice of your favorite citrus fruit.
How to use lemon Juice for acne scars. 1  Take a fresh lemon and squeeze out its juice. 2  If your skin is very sensitive, diliute lemon juice by mixing some rose water and then apply on your scars. 3  You can even mix a teaspoon of lemon juice with two teaspoons of Vitamin E oil and then apply this to your acne scars. 1 Now apply this mixture on your cotton ball to whole of your face or the area where you have acne scars. 2  Leave for about 10-15 minutes. 3  Wash off with water and pat dry. 4  Do this once every day for at least 2-3 weeks.
2. Day to Day Skin Care: Wash your face daily with a mild cleanser which is good for solving your skin problems like too much of oil, dryness, blackheads and white heads. Avoid using harsh scrubs as they worsen acne. 3. Avoid too much of sun exposure: Sun rays irritate acne and that can cause blemishes. Read on to know how to remove skin blemishes from your face and elsewhere. 1. Prevention is better than cure: The best way to get rid of blemishes is to prevent the skin blemishes from occurring in the first place.
Most of the teenagers have acne and skin blemishes on face at some point of time during their lives. Many of the adults too have facial blemishes. You will find in this article the effective methods about how to remove blemishes from your face and have blemish free skin. Read on to know how to remove skin blemishes from your face and elsewhere. 1. Prevention is better than cure: The best way to get rid of blemishes is to prevent the skin blemishes from occurring in the first place.
1 You can even mix a teaspoon of lemon juice with two teaspoons of Vitamin E oil and then apply this to your acne scars. 2  Vitamin E is a very good emollient with a lots of antioxidants that protects and even improves your skin texture. 1 Now apply this mixture on your cotton ball to whole of your face or the area where you have acne scars. 2  Leave for about 10-15 minutes. 3  Wash off with water and pat dry. 4  Do this once every day for at least 2-3 weeks.
1 Try olive oil for a cheap natural method. 2  Massage the oil into your skin and let it sit for 10 minutes. 3  Then rinse your face with warm water. 4  Oils can help to soften the skin of a scar, making it appear less dry or cracked. 5  However, there is no evidence of their effectiveness in reducing pigmentation of a scar. 1 These can help to reduce puffiness and darkened scars, but won't remove a scar entirely. 2  Your dermatologist can dry dermabrasion. 3  This chemical procedure helps to resurface the skin and reduce the appearance of scars. 4  Microdermabrasion is less invasive and can help superficial scarring.
Orange Peels: Mince the orange peels in water and apply this pack on your face to remove skin blemishes including acne-scars and acne as well. 14. Carrots: Apply mashed carrots paste on skin blemishes or alternatively apply carrot juice to get rid of skin blemishes from your face and else where. To have blemish free skin follow above home remedies for getting rid of skin blemishes fast including facial blemishes. Read on to know how to remove skin blemishes from your face and elsewhere. 1. Prevention is better than cure: The best way to get rid of blemishes is to prevent the skin blemishes from occurring in the first place.
1 Squeeze some juice and dab it on your skin. 2  Women have used straight lemon juice to lighten their skin for centuries, but you can use an orange, grapefruit or lime if you prefer. 3  Slice the fruit in half and squeeze the juice into a cup or bowl. 4  Using a cotton ball, dab it onto your dark spots. 1 Mix well, and apply to your face. 2  Leave it on for 30 minutes, then rinse well. 3  Make a citrus and powdered milk scrub. 4  Combine 1 teaspoon each of water, powdered milk and the juice of your favorite citrus fruit.
1 Massage the oil into your skin and let it sit for 10 minutes. 2  Then rinse your face with warm water. 3  Oils can help to soften the skin of a scar, making it appear less dry or cracked. 4  However, there is no evidence of their effectiveness in reducing pigmentation of a scar. 1 These can help to reduce puffiness and darkened scars, but won't remove a scar entirely. 2  Your dermatologist can dry dermabrasion. 3  This chemical procedure helps to resurface the skin and reduce the appearance of scars. 4  Microdermabrasion is less invasive and can help superficial scarring.