Whether you are looking for a pork loin cooking time or a pork chop cooking time, use the following chart as a cooking time and temperature guide for pork cuts (including ham) that are cooked in the oven, grilled, or are inserted into an oven bag prior to cooking. 
Report Abuse. A pork roast (other than a smoked ham) should be cooked to an internal temp of 160 degrees. Then take it out of the oven or off the grill, and let it rest for about 15 minutes. It will continue to cook for the first few minutes and the temp to serve should be 165 to 170. The roast should be removed from the oven when the internal temperature reaches 150° to 155° and then allowed to stand for 10 to 15 minutes before carving. The temperature of the roast will rise during this time and should reach a desired temperature of 160° to 165°.
FRESH PORK: Safe Cooking Chart. Cook all raw pork steaks, chops, and roasts to a minimum internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming. Use cooked pork within two hours (one hour if air temperature is above 90 °F) or refrigerate it at 40 °F or less in shallow, covered containers. Eat within 3 to 4 days, either cold or reheated to 165 °F (hot and steaming). It is safe to freeze ready prepared pork dishes. For best quality, use within 3 months.
The length of time stuffed pork chops cook in the oven will vary  slightly depending on their thickness. On average, the oven should  be set to a temperature of 350 degrees … Fahrenheit, and the chops  should cook for between 45 and 60 minutes. Pork and Pork Products CURFFL Section 113996(a)(3) Unless a customer requests a food to be cooked other than thoroughly, all pork or foods made with pork must be cooked to an minimum internal temperature of at least 145° F for 15 seconds. Some pork contains parasitic worms and harmful bacteria.
The National Pork Board recommends cooking pork chops, roasts, and tenderloin to an internal temperature between 145° F. (medium rare) and 160° F. (medium), followed by a 3 minute rest. Since large cuts increase approximately 10° F. while resting, remove them from the heat at 150° F. followed by a 10 minute rest. 
I would recommend cooking boneless pork chops to about 140*F. That is the temperature that most of the recipies i use call for and I always have nice juicy chops.   A … s far as i know, bone in chops should be cooked to the same temperature, they may just take longer to get there. Pork and Pork Products CURFFL Section 113996(a)(3) Unless a customer requests a food to be cooked other than thoroughly, all pork or foods made with pork must be cooked to an minimum internal temperature of at least 145° F for 15 seconds. Some pork contains parasitic worms and harmful bacteria.
New cooking guidelines from the nation’s food-safety agency confirm Pork Checkoff research that shows pork can be consumed safely when cooked to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit, followed by a three-minute rest time. “The new guidelines will help consumers enjoy pork at its most flavorful, juicy – and safe – temperature.”. The revised recommendation applies to pork whole-muscle cuts, such as loin, chops and roasts. Ground pork, like all ground meat, should be cooked to 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Regardless of cut or cooking method, both the USDA and National Pork Board recommend using a digital cooking thermometer to ensure an accurate final temperatur
However, on the food network, most of the time they cook they say that most pork you buy today is safe enough to cook to a medium or medium well, cooking it to 150, and then letting it rest for 10 minutes afterwards, which will raise the temp. another 5 degrees before you cut into it. The roast should be removed from the oven when the internal temperature reaches 150° to 155° and then allowed to stand for 10 to 15 minutes before carving. The temperature of the roast will rise during this time and should reach a desired temperature of 160° to 165°.