Destination Sequim! Discover the Secrets of Sequim. Click here to request a complimentary Sequim map and Visitors Guide ! Small-Town Living The City of Sequim (pop. 6,600+) is small-town America. It has many unique gift shops, murals, antique stores, galleries and fine restaurants. The sun shines in Sequim more than anywhere else in Western Washington. The rain shadow effect, caused by the Olympic Mountains, shelters the valley from excessive rain. May brings the oldest continuous festival in Washington State, the Sequim Irrigational Festival-celebrating 119 years in 2014. Stop by the Sequim Museum & Arts Center to enjoy the wealth of Sequim history and visit the Manis Mastadon exhibit! And then relax and enjoy a local culinary delight at one of our many authentic restaurants.
Vacation on Washington's beautiful Olympic Peninsula. Welcome to Simone's Sequim Valley and Port Angeles Vacation Home Rentals and Lodging. We are located in the Sequim-Dungeness Valley along the Strait of Juan de Fuca on Washington's beautiful North Olympic Peninsula. Sequim offers convenient lodging for visitors of Olympic National Park, Dungeness Spit National Wildlife Refuge, Victoria BC Canada, and the North Olympic Peninsula Pacific Ocean shores.
Sequim /ˈskwɪm/ is a city in Clallam County, Washington, United States. As of the 2010 census counted a population of 6,606. [Sequim School District population served is a little over 29,000. Sequim and the area around Sequim has a population of about 28,000] Sequim is located along the Dungeness River near the base of the Olympic Mountains. The city has been increasing in population dramatically in recent years due to the influx of retirees from the Puget Sound region and California. Sequim lies within the rain shadow of the Olympic Mountains and receives on average less than 16 inches (410 mm) of rain per year—about the same as Los Angeles, California—and has given itself the nickname of Sunny Sequim.
About Sequim, WA. The Valley of the Dungeness lies at the northern end of the Olympic Peninsula, in the extreme northwest corner of the United States. It spreads in an alluvial fan from the Dungeness River gorge to the scalloped beaches of the Strait of Juan de Fuca. The history of the Valley stems from the River. Beautiful Sequim sells itself, but we would love to show it to you: Give us a call 1-800-962-7307 and schedule an appointment. Weather Station Get temperature, rainfall and sunshine data for Sequim and you will see why it is such a popular place! The data is updated every 10 seconds.
Where to Stay. Where to Stay. Sequim is centrally located in the heart of the Olympic Peninsula and is the perfect place to stay while you enjoy all that the region has to offer. There are accommodations for every need from bed & breakfasts, hotels and motels, vacation rentals, inns, RV parks, and camping. 