Resting Metabolic Rate (RMR) is a form of metabolism measurement that measures the amount of energy used by the bodies of animals in a relaxed, but not post-absorptive, state. RMR measurements require the animals be in a thermal neutral zone (or a preferred temperature range for bradymetabolic animals) and relaxed. 
Your resting metabolic rate is approximately one kcal per kilogram of body weight per hour. (To find your weight in kilograms, divide your weight in pounds by 2.2.) If you weigh 132 pounds, or 60 kilograms, you will burn 60 kcal an hour. (A kilocalorie is the same amount of energy as a calorie, except that we use the term calories when we're talking about food and kilocalories when we're talking about exercise.) This is your resting metabolic rate..
Resting metabolic rate is the energy required by an animal to stay alive with no activity. Therefore, your real metabolic rate is always significantly higher than your RMR. Calculating RMR is a very useful first step in calculating your real metabolic rate. However, for the vast majority of people, resting metabolic rate can be calculated knowing a few key variables. They are age, sex, weight, height, and fat-free body mass. Fat-free mass is a very important variable. Weight and height are used in one formula to determine body surface area.
You can calculate your resting metabolic rate using our rmr calculator The calculator uses the resting metabolic rate formula in order to give you an estimate of your daily calories. The resting metabolic rate calculator is an ideal tool to help plan your calorie levels in order to lose weight. Your resting metabolic rate is the calories you burn while at rest. If you got up in the morning and went from your bed to the couch and watched TV the entire day, this would be a pretty good
Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is the minimal rate of energy expenditure per unit time by endothermic animals at rest. (McNab, B. K. 1997). On the Utility of Uniformity in the Definition of Basal Rate of Metabolism. Physiol. Zool. Vol.70; Metabolism refers to the processes that the body needs to function. Basal Metabolic Rate is the amount of energy expressed in calories that a person needs to keep the body functioning at rest. Some of those processes are breathing, blood circulation, controlling body temperature, cell growth, brain and nerve function, and contraction of muscles
The rate at which these processes occur is measured in calories per unit of time, and is most often given in calories per day. The term basal metabolic rate (BMR) is often confused and/or interchanged with RMR or resting energy expenditure (REE). Basal metabolic rate, however, can only be found during an awake, but totally rested and post-absorptive state, and in a neutrally temperate environment. 
BMR is defined as Basal Metabolic Rate. BMR is synonymous with Basal Energy Expenditure or BEE. BMR measurements are typically taken in a darkened room upon waking after 8 hours of sleep, 12 hours of fasting to ensure that the digestive system is inactive, and with the subject resting in a reclined position. RMR can be defined as Resting Metabolic Rate.
• RMR stands for Resting Metabolic Rate, and is synonymous with Resting Energy Expenditure or REE. RMR measurements are typically taken under less restricted conditions than BMR, and do not require that the subject spend the night sleeping” in the test facility prior to testing. 
Resting metabolic rate is really what most lay people mean when they say basal metabolic rate, and I talk here only about resting metabolic rate (RMR). Basal metabolic rate is a precise calculation with a precise definition; RMR is close enough for practical purposes. Your metabolic rate = your resting metabolic rate (easy to calculate reasonably accurately) + energy consumed by your daily activities (must guestimate). However, for the vast majority of people, resting metabolic rate can be calculated knowing a few key variables. They are age, sex, weight, height, and fat-free body mass. Fat-free mass is a very important variable. Weight and height are used in one formula to determine body surface area.