Overview. Gumballs are one of several types of nuisance fruit that grow on trees and can make a mess of your yard and hardscape. The most common are the spike covered, round and brown fruits dropped from the sweetgum tree in the fall and winter. 
IDENTIFICATION: Liquidambar styraciflua: A medium-sized to large tree, growing to 65-155 feet (20–35 m) with a trunk up to 6 feet (2 M) in diameter, can live to 400 years. Leaves alternating, usually have five (but sometimes three or seven) sharply pointed palmate lobes. You painfully find them with your feet. The vicious seed pods have impaled many a forager and has done much to ruin the Sweet Gum’s reputation. Perhaps it is time for some rehabilitation. The only edible part of the tree is the dried sap which makes a fragrant, bitter chewing gum.
Overview. An attractive, large shade tree, the gumball tree is more widely known as the sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua). Its woody, spiny, rounded fruits are called gumballs and cover the ground in fall and winter once they drop from the branches. Grow a gumball tree in abundant sunshine and in a moist, fertile soil that isn't alkaline
Liquidambar styraciflua is a popular ornamental and forestal tree, cultivated for its distinctive foliage and intense autumn colors. It is commonly grown throughout its native North American range as well as many other temperate parts of the world. Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) is one of the most important commercial hardwoods in the Southeastern United States. Its wood is bright reddish brown (with the sapwood nearly white) and may have black grain in the heartwood; it is heavy, straight, satiny, and close-grained, but not strong.
Many homeowners and businesses have resorted to removing the trees to combat the nuisance fruit. An alternative to removing the tree is to spray the tree in the spring with Florel. Florel is a synthetic growth regulator that we use to control the nuisance fruit of Sweet Gum trees. An effectively sprayed tree can have the fruit production reduced by 50 to 70 percent. The trees have a natural pyramidal shape with lush green foliage during the growing season that turns to spectacular colors in the fall. However, they have a significant litter problem – Gumballs, the fruit of the tree.
Liquidambar styraciflua is a medium-sized to large tree, growing anywhere from 33–50 feet (10–15 m) in cultivation and up to 150 feet (46 m) in the wild, with a trunk up 2–3 feet (0.61–0.91 m) in diameter, on average. Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) is one of the most important commercial hardwoods in the Southeastern United States. Its wood is bright reddish brown (with the sapwood nearly white) and may have black grain in the heartwood; it is heavy, straight, satiny, and close-grained, but not strong.
Erv Evans, NC State University Sweetgum fruits, called gumballs by children, are often dropped in huge quantities. Up to 50 seeds can be in one fruit. Seeds are eaten by many birds, chipmunks, and squirrels. Very young Sweetgum trees are eaten by deer, rabbits, mice, and beaver. 
Today gumball trees are grown as tall shade trees in gardens although many ornamental cultivars exist that have more ornate foliage or do not produce the spiny seed gumballs. Cut trees are used as lumber, veneer, plywood, railroad ties, fuel and pulpwood. An attractive, large shade tree, the gumball tree is more widely known as the sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua). Its woody, spiny, rounded fruits are called gumballs and cover the ground in fall and winter once they drop from the branches. Grow a gumball tree in abundant sunshine and in a moist, fertile soil that isn't alkaline
The Sweet Gum tree is the sand spur of the forest. You painfully find them with your feet. The vicious seed pods have impaled many a forager and has done much to ruin the Sweet Gum’s reputation. Perhaps it is time for some rehabilitation. The only edible part of the tree is the dried sap which makes a fragrant, bitter chewing gum.