Sodium Alginate is a natural polysaccharide product extracted from brown seaweed that grows in cold water regions. It is soluble in cold and hot water with strong agitation and can thicken and bind. In presence of calcium, sodium alginate forms a gel without the need of heat. In modernist cuisine, sodium alginate is mostly used with calcium salts to produce small caviar-like and large spheres with liquid inside that burst in the mouth.
Alginic acid, also called algin or alginate, is an anionic polysaccharide distributed widely in the cell walls of brown algae, where through binding with water it forms a viscous gum. Its colour ranges from white to yellowish-brown. It is sold in filamentous, granular or powdered forms. The processes for the manufacture of sodium alginate from brown seaweeds fall into two categories: 1) Calcium alginate method and, 2) Alginic acid method. The chemistry of the processes used to make sodium alginate from brown seaweeds is relatively simple.
Details. Sodium Alginate (E401) is extracted from brown seaweed. It is used as a stabilizer for ice cream, yogurt, cream, and cheese. It acts as a thickener and emulsifier for salad, pudding, jam, tomato juice, and canned products. It is a hydration agent for noodles, bread, cool and frozen products. 
Sodium Alginate (ALGIN) Overview Information. Algin is a chemical taken from brown seaweeds. It is used to make medicine. Algin is used to lower cholesterol levels and to reduce the amount of heavy chemicals including strontium, barium, tin, cadmium, manganese, zinc, and mercury that are taken up by the body. 
Sodium Alginate Origin. Sodium Alginate is a natural polysaccharide product extracted from the cell wall of brown seaweed that grows in cold water regions. The natural function of alginate is to give flexibility to the seaweed, so it is common to find higher contents of alginate in species found in troubled waters. In presence of calcium, sodium alginate forms a gel without the need of heat. In modernist cuisine, sodium alginate is mostly used with calcium salts to produce small caviar-like and large spheres with liquid inside that burst in the mouth.
Photo Credit red caviar image by Igor Zhorov from Fotolia.com. Sodium alginate is a substance that the Food and Drug Administration has listed as generally recognized as safe. In production, sodium alginate is extracted from brown algae and is the sodium salt of alginic acid. It is highly viscous and is often used as an emulsifier and a gelling agent. These properties give sodium alginate a variety of uses in many industries. 
Function. An algae-extracted gelling agent, sodium alginate is used in molecular gastronomy in association with calcium salts for the basic spherification and reverse-spherification processes, whether to make small caviar-like pearls or large ravioles. Sodium alginate is therefore a salt extracted from the viscous liquid from the cell wall of brown algae. Its natural function is to increase the flexibility of the algae. Thus, algae developing in troubled waters generally have larger alginate content than those growing in calm waters.
Calcium alginate is a water-insoluble, gelatinous, cream coloured substance that can be created through the addition of aqueous calcium chloride to aqueous sodium alginate. Adding artificial flavours and colours creates a more tasty edible slime. 
what is sodium alginate. what is sodium alginate. Sodium alginate, a natural polysaccharide, has the necessary stability, solubility, viscosity and safety of pharmaceutical excipients. Alginate extract in phaeophyceae was first studied in 1881 by the British chemist E.C.Stanford. Sodium alginate is soluble in water but insoluble in such organic solvents as alcohol, ether and chloroform. It becomes thick liquid when soluble in water and the pH value of 1% solution is 6-8. When the pH value is 6-9, the viscosity is stable but the viscosity will decrease when heated to80 ℃.
A common use of sodium alginate in the food industry is to make the pimiento strips inside pitted olives. The strips are made with pimiento puree that is gelled in thin sheets using sodium alginate and then cut into strips. Sodium alginate is also used as stabilizers in ice cream. In presence of calcium, sodium alginate forms a gel without the need of heat. In modernist cuisine, sodium alginate is mostly used with calcium salts to produce small caviar-like and large spheres with liquid inside that burst in the mouth.