John Quincy Adams was born on July 11, 1767, to John Adams and his wife Abigail Adams (nee Née) smith in a part Of, Braintree massachusetts that is Now. quincy Adams' youngest son, Charles Francis Adams (who named his own son John Quincy), also pursued a career in diplomacy and politics. In 1870 Charles Francis built the first memorial presidential library in the United States, to honor his father.
John Quincy Adams (July 11, 1767 – February 23, 1848) was the sixth President of the United States. He was the first President who was the son of a President. Several cities are named after Adam's middle name such as Quincy, Illinois. 
Early Life. John Adams was born on October 30, 1735, in Braintree (now Quincy), Massachusetts. His father, John Adams Sr., was a farmer, a Congregationalist deacon and a town councilman, and was a direct descendant of Henry Adams, a Puritan who emigrated from England to the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1638. Synopsis. John Adams was born on October 30, 1735, in Quincy, Massachusetts. He was a direct descendant of Puritan colonists from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. He studied at Harvard University, where he received his undergraduate degree and master's, and in 1758 was admitted to the bar.
John Quincy Adams (/ˈkwɪnzi/ ; July 11, 1767 – February 23, 1848) was an American statesman who served as the sixth President of the United States from 1825 to 1829. Adams' youngest son, Charles Francis Adams (who named his own son John Quincy), also pursued a career in diplomacy and politics. In 1870 Charles Francis built the first memorial presidential library in the United States, to honor his father.
John Quincy Adams was the son of former President John Adams and Abigail Adams. As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating key treaties, most notably the Treaty of Ghent, which ended the War of 1812. Adams' youngest son, Charles Francis Adams (who named his own son John Quincy), also pursued a career in diplomacy and politics. In 1870 Charles Francis built the first memorial presidential library in the United States, to honor his father.
Introduction. John Quincy Adams began his diplomatic career as the U.S. minister to the Netherlands in 1794, and served as minister to Prussia during the presidential administration of his father, the formidable patriot John Adams. After the elder John Adams was elected president in 1796, he made his son minister to Prussia (Germany). Before leaving for Berlin, John Quincy Adams married Louisa Catherine Johnson, whom he met in London (she was the daughter of the American consul there).
John Quincy Adams (July 11, 1767 – February 23, 1848) was an American statesman who served as the sixth President of the United States from 1825 to 1829. He also served as a diplomat, a Senator and member of the House of Representatives. 
John Quincy Adams was born on July 11, 1767, to John Adams and his wife Abigail Adams (nee Née) smith in a part Of, Braintree massachusetts that is Now. Quincy John Quincy adams did not attend, school but was tutored by his Cousin James thax and his'father s law, Clerk Nathan. rice Adams' youngest son, Charles Francis Adams (who named his own son John Quincy), also pursued a career in diplomacy and politics. In 1870 Charles Francis built the first memorial presidential library in the United States, to honor his father.
The first President who was the son of a President, John Quincy Adams in many respects paralleled the career as well as the temperament and viewpoints of his illustrious father. John Quincy Adams. John Quincy Adams, son of John and Abigail Adams, served as the sixth President of the United States from 1825 to 1829.
John Quincy Adams. John Quincy Adams, nicknamed “Old Man Eloquent” is the sixth President of the United States. Among the presidents, he was the first one to have a former US president as his father. John Quincy was the son of John Adams, the second President of the United States, and Abigail Adams. As such, he had been brought up for a life of public service. And he had served the country, not only as a president, but also as a member of the Senate and as a member of the House of Representatives. 