Kevin Scott, president & CEO of Electrolux Major Appliances North America said, “Charlotte is consistently ranked as one of the best cities in which to live and work in the U.S., and it provides great access to road, rail and air transportation. Following an extensive site search, the new Electrolux North American headquarters will be located at 10200 David Taylor Drive in the University Area of northeast Charlotte.
“I would say that the opportunity in Charlotte just got better.”. The acquisition is Electrolux’s largest-ever deal. The Swedish appliance-maker moved its North American headquarters to Charlotte in 2010, lured in part by a $27 million state and local incentives package. In December, Electrolux announced an $85 million expansion of its facilities in the University City area, supported by a $34 million incentives package. Charlotte will be at the center of the U.S. appliance market after Electrolux completes its planned $3.3 billion acquisition of General Electric’s appliance business. By Rick Rothacker, Ely Portillo and Steve Lyttle-rrothacker@charlotteobserver.com elyportillo@charlotteobserver.com.
In 1937, The now American-Owned Electrolux Corp debuts the Electrolux Model XXX (30). It is the first American only Electrolux. The Model XXX was sold from 1937-1954, making it the longest made vacuum and in that time span over 14 million where sold. In 2000, the North American rights to the Electrolux brand name were sold to Electrolux Group of Sweden, which was previously unaffiliated since 1968. The corporation that originally manufactured Electrolux vacuums has been known as Aerus since 2001.
USA, manufactures vacuum cleaners, carpet cleaners and air purifiers. It is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has over 500 independently owned franchises in the U.S. and Canada. Aerus is the successor to Electrolux USA, the iconic manufacturer of vacuum cleaners. However, the Electrolux name is now used in the U.S. by the Electrolux Group of Sweden, which also manufactures Eureka vacuum cleaners. In 2000, the North American rights to the Electrolux brand name were sold to Electrolux Group of Sweden, which was previously unaffiliated since 1968. The corporation that originally manufactured Electrolux vacuums has been known as Aerus since 2001.
AMERICAN ELECTROLUX TODAY by Charles Richard Lester After 78 years (as of 2002), Electrolux-USA is no more. The beginning of the end was foreshadowed on May 31, 1985, when the Electrolux Corporation closed its red-brick mill in Old Greenwich, Connecticut which, at the time, employed 830 workers. The Electrolux Group sold the rights to the Electrolux trademark in North America to a group owned by Sarah Lee back in the 60s. The Swedish company then focused on growing its business in other parts of the world -- through growing the Electrolux trademark and making strategic acquisitions.
AB Electrolux (commonly known as Electrolux) is a multinational appliance manufacturer, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. It is consistently ranked the world's second-largest appliance maker by units sold (after Whirlpool). Electrolux products sell under a variety of brand names (including its own), and are primarily major appliances and vacuum cleaners intended for consumer use. The company also makes appliances for professional use. 1 1919: The Lux vacuum is the first product Electrolux sells. 2  1925: D, Electrolux's first refrigerator, is an absorption model. 3  1937: Electrolux model 30 vacuum is unveiled. 4  1940: Assistent (Swedish spelling of assistant) , the company's only wartime consumer product, is a mixer / food processor.
The appliance maker moved its North American headquarters to Charlotte from Augusta, Ga., in 2010, lured partially by a $27 million incentives package. In 2013, Electrolux announced an $85 million expansion of its facilities in the University City area, supported by a $34 million incentives package. On Wednesday, however, Electrolux said it expects first-quarter earnings for its North American major appliances business will be “significantly lower than anticipated” as the company adapts to new federal energy standards for its refrigerators and freezers that were put in place during the second half of last year.
Newsroom. Electrolux is planning to consolidate its North American cooking manufacturing by building a new manufacturing facility in Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
Links. Charlotte, NC has been selected as the location of the new Electrolux North American headquarters where a number of U.S. corporate office operations and support functions will combine into a single location. The consolidation of multiple entities in the new site will begin in summer 2010. Following an extensive site search, the new Electrolux North American headquarters will be located at 10200 David Taylor Drive in the University Area of northeast Charlotte.