Vitamins for General Eye Health. Bausch + Lomb Ocuvite eye vitamin and mineral supplements focus on one single thing: the health of your eyes.* Just as your bones need calcium to stay healthy and strong, your eyes have their own set of nutritional needs. 
1 Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester. 3  It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate. Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods 1  :
Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision. Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods 1  : Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin, the light-absorbing molecule necessary for both low-light (scotopic vision) and color vision. Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods 1  : Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester.
Vitamin A is essential for good health. It promotes growth, the immune system, reproduction, and vision. However, recent research suggests that too much vitamin A, particularly in the form of retinol, may be bad for your bones. Beta-carotene is a precursor for vitamin A. The body needs to convert it to retinol or vitamin A for use. Beta-carotene is found naturally in mostly orange and dark green plant foods, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, mangos, and kale.
Vitamins for the Eyes. Vitamins are classified as either fat-soluble or water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body and include A, D, E, and K, while the water-soluble vitamins, C and B, are flushed from your body and need to be replaced daily. Taking eye vitamins can help us to maintain the health of our eyes. 1 Vitamin E: Like vitamin C, vitamin E is found in the lens of the eye. 2  It is also a major player in the body’s antioxidant defense system. 3  Because it is found in the eye’s lens, it is believed to help prevent cataracts. 4  Vitamin E is also found in the retina, and is said to help prevent macular degeneration.
Eye supplements are nutritional products that contain vitamins and other nutrients that research has shown to be beneficial for maintaining eye health and good vision. As their name suggests, eye supplements are designed to add to, not replace, nutrients you get from a healthful diet. As research continues on the benefits of vision supplements in reducing the risk of eye problems (and perhaps in improving visual acuity in healthy eyes), it seems wise to supplement your diet with a daily eye supplement that contains many, if not all, of the following ingredients.
Vitamin C for eyes. Vitamin C is a health powerhouse. You can find it in fruits like oranges, kiwi, and strawberries, as well as vegetables like broccoli, mustard greens, and peppers. In addition to providing antioxidants, it can also help slow cataracts and provide needed eye vitamins for macular degeneration. There are vitamins for vision loss that you can take, but none of them produce miraculous results. Getting enough vitamins is important at every age, especially natural vitamins in your food. The functions of vitamins can be numerous.
Your eyesight is among your most precious of senses. As the leader in ocular nutritional research and vitamin supplements for the eye, Bausch + Lomb is committed to helping you protect and maintain the health of your eyes. 
1 Vitamin A and beta-carotene-necessary for night vision. 2  Vitamin B complex-the B complex vitamins may help prevent high homocysteine levels developing in the blood. 3  These are associated with vascular problems that affect the retina. 4  Vitamin C-may reduce the risk of cataracts. 