Both the ISO code DKK and currency sign kr. are in common use; the former precedes the value, the latter in some contexts follows it. The currency is sometimes referred to as the Danish crown in English, since krone literally means crown. Historically, krone coins have been minted in Denmark since the 17th century. 
ATMs are available in many parts of Copenhagen-ensure you inform your bank before travelling abroad, and be aware you may be charged for cash withdrawals. It is advisable to exchange some cash before arriving in Copenhagen. Visit the other Copenhagen city guide sections to get more detailed travel advice, and information on the best Copenhagen attractions and sightseeing activities, recommended shops and restaurants, as well as the best Copenhagen hotels.
(Well the small coins are practically interchangeable...). For starters, the Danish currency (DKK) used in Copenhagen is called the kron e, plural kron er, and the Swedish currency (SEK) used in Stockholm is called the kron a, plural kron or. Both of these words mean crown in English. Kronas in Swedish I believe means only crown's. 
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code. This website shall not be liable for any losses or damages incurred in connection with this site. SHARE | BOOKMARK
Exchange Rate Copenhagen. Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Copenhagen. The currency used in Copenhagen is the Danish Krone. Copenhagen is the capital of Denmark. If you are traveling to Copenhagen, you will need to exchange your currency for the Danish Krone. You may exchange your money for the Danish Krone at most Copenhagen banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus. 
Denmark, Krone. The Danish Krone is the currency of Denmark. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Denmark Krone exchange rate is the EUR to DKK rate. The currency code for Kroner is DKK, and the currency symbol is kr. Below, you'll find Danish Krone rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take DKK rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. Danish Krone History. Currency in Denmark first came into existence in 1625 with the introduction of the Danish Rigsdaler. The Rigsdaler was a complicated currency, using three subunits: the mark, skilling, and pfenning. The system lacked decimalization and continued to be used until the creation of Scandinavian Monetary Union in 1873
Connie Maria Westergaard. The currency in Denmark is Danish Kroner (DKK). One krone is divided into 100 Øre. øre coins are circulated in the following: denominations Øre (oere) øre Copper, 1 Krone, 2 Kroner (5, kroner silver each with a hole in) the centre 10 And (20 kroner). both brass 
A: The Danish currency is called “Kroner”. 1 USD is approx. 7 DKK and 1 Euro is approx. 7.5 Danish kroner. You can pay with international cards many places in Copenhagen and always at hotels. 
Kroner, Euro and foreign currencies in Denmark (scroll down to approximate exchange rates). Although Denmark is member of the EU, the country is not part of Euro Land. Visitors therefore need the Danish currency Kroner for shopping and other expenses. Also if you want to transfer money to or from Denmark and other countries you need money exchange.