Introduction. Powdery mildew is the name given to a group of diseases caused by several closely related fungi. Their common symptom is a grayish-white, powdery mat visible on the surface of leaves, stems, and flower petals. 
Uncinula necator (syn. Erysiphe necator) is a fungus that causes powdery mildew of grape. It is a common pathogen of Vitis species, including the wine grape, Vitis vinifera. The fungus is believed to have originated in North America. Powdery mildews are generally host-specific. Uncinula necator is the pathogen that causes powdery mildew on grape and linden. The most susceptible hosts of this pathogen are members of the species Vitis. The signs of powdery mildews are widely recognizable and easily identifiable.
Home Plant Diseases. Plant Diseases: Powdery Mildew. Powdery mildew is one of the most easily recognized and identifiable of all plant diseases. Powdery mildews are also recognized to attack a wider variety of plants than any other plant disease. Cut flowers or indoor potted plants can be affected with powdery mildew. Powdery mildew will continue to thrive and spread on cut flowers, thus a small infection will continue to expand. Powdery mildew can be very severe on roses, phlox, lilac and bee-balm in particular, but can infect nearly any plant.
Powdery mildew, also known as white powdery mildew, comes from lots of different fungi. Powdery mildew looks like white or gray powdery growths on your marijuana plants’ leaves. It appears on grow areas indoors and outdoors and is foreshadowed by small bumps on the topsides of leaves. Powdery mildew spores can be transported to your plants on the wind, through air ventilation systems, from pets, and any other living thing that moves (including yourself). Until the surrounding environment is ideal, the spores from mildew will stay dormant, biding their time.
Powdery Mildew. Powdery mildew is a common disease on many types of plants. In fact, it is one of the oldest plant diseases on record – Theophrastis wrote of powdery mildew on roses in 300 B.C. 
Pathogen and susceptible plants. There are many species of powdery mildew fungi and they affect thousands of plant species. The fungi that cause powdery mildew are generally host-specific and only infect plants from the same genus or family. Therefore the fungus on your ash tree will not infect your viburnum bush. 1 Powdery mildew appears as superficial growth on plant surfaces and is seen as white to gray powdery spots, blotches or felt-like mats on leaves, stems and buds. 2  Infected plants may appear to be sprinkled with baby powder or covered in cobwebs. 3  Disease is often most severe on young leaves, water sprouts and green shoots.
Importance. Powdery mildew is a very recognizable and common fungal disease found on several plants in Minnesota. On trees and shrubs, powdery mildew rarely causes serious damage to its host. 1 Powdery mildew appears as superficial growth on plant surfaces and is seen as white to gray powdery spots, blotches or felt-like mats on leaves, stems and buds. 2  Infected plants may appear to be sprinkled with baby powder or covered in cobwebs. 3  Disease is often most severe on young leaves, water sprouts and green shoots.
Powdery mildew is one of the most common and easily recognized plant diseases. Almost no type of plant is immune, however some are more susceptible than others. Lilacs, crab apples, phlox, monarda, roses, grapes, squash and cucumbers are all likely targets for powdery mildew. Powdery mildew fungi are host specific, meaning the different powdery mildew fungi infect different plants. The powdery mildew on your lilacs will not spread to your grapes or your roses. However all powdery mildews favor the same conditions.
Powdery mildew is one of the easier plant diseases to identify, as its symptoms are quite distinctive. Infected plants display white powdery spots on the leaves and stems. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Powdery mildew is a fungal disease that affects a wide range of plants. Powdery mildew diseases are caused by many different species of fungi in the order Erysiphales, with Podosphaera xanthii (a.k.a. Sphaerotheca fuliginea) being the most commonly reported cause. Erysiphe cichoracearum was formerly reported to be the primary causal organism throughout most of the world