DRUG DESCRIPTION. The active ingredient in PEPCID® (famotidine) is a histamine H2-receptor antagonist. Famotidine is N'(aminosulfonyl)-3-[[[2-[(diaminomethylene)amino]-4-thiazolyl]methyl]thio]propanimidamide. The empirical formula of famotidine is C 8 H 15 N 7 O 2 S 3 and its molecular weight is 337.43. Its structural formula is:
Famotidine is a histamine type 2 receptor antagonist (H2 blocker) which is commonly used for treatment of acid-peptic disease and heartburn. The H2 blockers are specific antagonists of the histamine type 2 receptor, which is found on the basolateral (antiluminal) membrane of gastric parietal cells.
H2 receptor blockers—also known as Histamine receptor antagonists (H2RAs)—remain a powerful weapon against gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Antacids such as Maalox, Mylanta, and Tums may provide temporary relief of chronic acid reflux, but they don’t allow an esophagus battered by stomach acid time to heal. That's where the H2 receptor blockers come in. These medications include: cimetidine (Tagamet HB), famotidine (Pepcid AC), nizatidine (Axid AR), and ranitidine (Zantac 25, Zantac 75 and Zantac 150).
A: Pepcid AC (famotidine) is in a group of drugs called histamine-2 (H2) blockers. H2 blockers work by decreasing the amount of acid the stomach produces. Pepcid AC is used to treat and prevent heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach. Pepcid sold OTC is used to help prevent and treat heartburn symptoms, such as indigestion or having a sour stomach after eating foods and drinking beverages that disagree with you. Pepcid belongs to a class of drug called histamine-2 or H2 blockers, which work by reducing the amount of acid your stomach produces. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) gave Marathon Pharmaceuticals approval to market prescription Pepcid in 1986. Many companies market OTC famotidine
Famotidine is in a drug class called H2 (histamine 2) blockers. Famotidine decreases acid production in the stomach. As such, Pepcid AC's purpose is an acid reducer. Pepcid AC is used to relieve heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach. Pepcid sold OTC is used to help prevent and treat heartburn symptoms, such as indigestion or having a sour stomach after eating foods and drinking beverages that disagree with you. Pepcid belongs to a class of drug called histamine-2 or H2 blockers, which work by reducing the amount of acid your stomach produces. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) gave Marathon Pharmaceuticals approval to market prescription Pepcid in 1986. Many companies market OTC famotidine
Side effects include constipation, diarrhea, change in the color of bowel movements, and stomach cramps. Products containing calcium may cause kidney stones and are more likely to cause constipation. Products like Pepcid-AC are called histamine-2 blockers or H2 blockers. These drugs reduce production of stomach acid. Pepcid AC and other H2 blockers such as Tagamet HB, Zantac 75, and Axid AR are available in prescription-strength or in lower doses in over-the-counter varietie
General Description. Famotidine is a histamine (H2) blocker that is used to prevent and treat stomach and intestinal ulcers. How It Works. Histamine is a key component in the allergic reaction, causing inflammation and swelling. It can often cause stomach cramping and diarrhea as well. By inhibiting the H2 receptor, a receptor for histamine, Famotidine reduces the output of stomach acid.
Histamine H2-receptor antagonists, also known as H2-blockers, are used to treat duodenal ulcers and prevent their return. They are also used to treat gastric ulcers and for some conditions, such as Zollinger-Ellison disease, in which the stomach produces too much acid. In over-the-counter (OTC) strengths, these medicines are used to relieve and/or prevent heartburn, acid indigestion, and sour stomach. H2-blockers may also be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. H2-blockers work by decreasing the amount of acid produced by the stomach. H2-blockers are available both over-the-counter (OTC) and with your doctor's prescriptio
The selective histamine type 2 receptor antagonists/blockers (H2 blockers) are widely used in the treatment of acid-peptic disease, including duodenal and gastric ulcers, gastroesophageal reflux disease and common heartburn. The H2 receptor blockers act by binding to histamine type 2 receptors on the basolateral (antiluminal) surface of gastric parietal cells, interfering with pathways of gastric acid production and secretion.