Dr. Clements: When you get infected with the flu virus, it multiplies quietly in body until you get symptoms of the disease and start excreting enough virus to give to someone else. That's the incubation period. For the flu, it is about two to five days. So if you are exposed today, you probably won't have any symptoms for three to five days. Then you have a little headache, maybe a few aches and pains and maybe a low fever. Then, the next day, you have a high fever and a runny nose
Norovirus. Norovirus is the most common cause of stomach flu. Most people are contagious from the moment that they become ill. Much of the symptoms start appearing within a day or three days of getting exposed; some people are known to be contagious up about two weeks after recovering from the illness. Additional Notes on Incubation Period. Despite the length of the incubation period in rotavirus and norovirus, there is an average period of time that people will incubate the illness. Most people will harbor the stomach flu virus for as little as 4 hours to as long as 2 days.
What is the difference between an antiviral and a vaccine? An incubation period is the amount of time it takes between exposure to a virus, and the development of symptoms caused by the virus. For the H1N1 flu virus, the incubation period is between 1 and 7 days, with 4 days being the most common. What is the incubation period for the H1N1 flu virus? Businesses should communicate with their employees about infection control measures like handwashing and staying home when sick.
When a person becomes infected with stomach flu, the virus begins to multiply within the small intestine. After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. Whether or not a person is contagious during the stomach flu incubation period will depend on which stomach flu virus the person is infected with. For example, with a rotavirus infection, the person is contagious during
Incubation Period. According to the CDC, although the incubation period can range from one to four days, the typical incubation period is two days. People can begin infecting others about one day before any symptoms of the virus appear, and are contagious for about a week after that. Influenza is a highly contagious respiratory illness. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, every year between 5 and 20 percent of people in the United States get the flu. More than 200,000 are hospitalized due to flu-related complications and nearly 36,000 die from causes related to the virus
The incubation period for A(H5N1) avian influenza may be longer than that for normal seasonal influenza, which is around 2 to 3 days. Current data for A(H5N1) infection indicate an incubation period ranging from 2 to 8 days and possibly as long as 17 days. 
The typical incubation period for influenza is 1—4 days (average: 2 days). Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. 
The estimated incubation period is unknown and could range from 1 to 7 days, and more likely 1 to 4 days. Persons with novel H1N1 flu virus infection should be considered potentially contagious (able to spread disease) for up to 7 days after illness onset. 