Applying for a Duplicate MA Title. You can apply for a duplicate title online, by mail or in person at your local MA RMV office. Make sure that the address that the RMV has is current; they will only mail a duplicate title to the address on record. Fees. The fee for a replacement title is $25 and payable by check or money order to the Registry of Motor Vehicles. You can pay the fee online via credit card or e-check. In person or by mail, you will need to pay by check or money order
Titles and Salvage Vehicles. Massachusetts Title Law went into effect on September 1, 1972. This law requires that all motor vehicles and trailers be titled within ten (10) days of purchase. Passenger vehicles with a model year of 1980 and older, purchased before November 26, 1990 are exempt from titling. Any vehicle purchased after November 26, 1990 must be titled, excluding the following:
Faxes and photocopies are not acceptable. 3. Pay th e Duplicate T itle fee. See the Title Fees section for the applicable fee. If the present Title is mutilated or illegible, the mutilated or illegible Title must accompany the Application fo r a Duplicate C ertificate of Title. A customer recovering an original Certificate of Title for whic h a duplicate h as been issued must promptly surrender the original to the Registry of Motor Vehicles. To obtai n a Duplicate T itle through the mail or at a full service branch office, follow the process below: 1. The owner or lienholder must complete and sign an Application for Duplicate Certificate of Title. All owners must sign the application form.
Title Policy Obtaining a Massachusetts Title. If an original Title has been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, the owner(s) or the lienholder (s), if applicable, may apply for a Duplicate Title. To obtai n a Duplicate T itle through the mail or at a full service branch office, follow the process below: 1. The owner or lienholder must complete and sign an Application for Duplicate Certificate of Title. All owners must sign the application form.
If your Massachusetts vehicle registration card or license plates are lost, stolen, or damaged, you should request replacements with the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) as soon as you are able. Driving without your vehicle's current registration information can cause you problems if you are pulled over. To request a duplicate Massachusetts vehicle registration by mail, you'll need to make a written request that includes: 1  Your vehicle's year, make, and model. 2  The vehicle identification number (VIN). 3  The vehicle's license plate number. 4  Your mailing address and name
You'll need to download and complete the Application for Duplicate Certificate of Title (Form T20558) to get your title replacement process started. You can submit your completed application in person at your local Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) office or mail it to: Registry of Motor Vehicles. Title Division. Fees. The fee for a replacement title is $25 and payable by check or money order to the Registry of Motor Vehicles. You can pay the fee online via credit card or e-check. In person or by mail, you will need to pay by check or money order
If your original or duplicate title was processed and returned to the Administration, you may submit a completed Certification of Non-Receipt of Original/Duplicate Title Certificate form (VR-091) by mail to the MVA. A title will be issued at no charge. If your title was not returned to the Administration and your request for a title was made within the last 90 days, you may submit the Certification of Non-Receipt of Original/Duplicate Title Certificate for review by supervision. A charge may apply.