Blemishes are like bad things on your face, like if there is a spot on your nose its a blemish, and if you get bit by a bug on your leg and it heals and leaves a spot its a blemish. How old are you, you're kinda dumb to not know what the word blemish means. answer mine! http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?... 
Acne vulgaris (or simply acne) is a long-term skin condition characterized by areas of blackheads, whiteheads, pimples, greasy skin, and possibly scarring. The resulting appearance may lead to anxiety, reduced self-esteem, and in extreme cases, depression or thoughts of suicide. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Acne is the term for plugged pores (blackheads and whiteheads), pimples, and even deeper lumps (cysts or nodules) that occur on the face, neck, chest, back, shoulders and even the upper arms. Acne affects most teenagers to some extent. 
If you have bad acne or just a few spots use 'Mario Badescu-Drying lotion' you just dab it on at night and it drys the spots out and overnight they go down or virtually disappear depending on how bad your spot is. The skin contains millions of sebaceous glands that secrete a grease (sebum), through the skin pores onto the surface of the skin. Normally sebum simply helps to keep the skin healthy. A spot forms when a pore becomes blocked by a plug of dead skin cells mixed with sebum.
Key Difference: Acne is a disease of the skin that is characterized by presence of pimples, blackheads and whiteheads. Many people consider both acne and blemish as same. However, they both refer to different things. Acne is a disease or a disorder, whereas blemish is a condition. 
Post acne marks, or macules, are commonly referred to as “acne scars.. Real acne scars, however, are the indentations or protrusions left behind by acne. Here is a picture of my left cheek that shows the difference between acne scars and acne marks (as well as my large pores): Acne scars vs. Acne marks. As you can see, my acne scars are colorless but indented, and my acne marks are dark but flat
There is no real difference, it is just a matter of quantity. If you have a few, they are usually referred to as ‘spots’, ‘pimples’ or ‘zits’. But if you have quite a lot of whiteheads, blackheads or angry-looking inflamed spots, it is referred to as acne. The skin contains millions of sebaceous glands that secrete a grease (sebum), through the skin pores onto the surface of the skin. Normally sebum simply helps to keep the skin healthy. A spot forms when a pore becomes blocked by a plug of dead skin cells mixed with sebum.
Dr. Murad explains the differences between the appearance of and treatment of acne scars and post-acne marks or dark spots. Learn More About Murad Post-Acne Mark Treatments: http://www.murad.com/acne-scars-treat... 
In the future. A lot of the ongoing research into acne is focusing on the bacteria that cause the inflammation. One possibility is to use viruses to kill the bacteria; a virus commonly found on human skin (a type of bacteriophage) can damage acne-producing bacteria and could be used as a treatment in the future. The skin contains millions of sebaceous glands that secrete a grease (sebum), through the skin pores onto the surface of the skin. Normally sebum simply helps to keep the skin healthy. A spot forms when a pore becomes blocked by a plug of dead skin cells mixed with sebum.
Dark spots develop when a wound, rash, pimple, or other stimuli like picking at your acne lesions causes skin inflammation, which triggers the skin to produce too much melanin. Melanin is the protein in the skin that gives the skin its color. The excess melanin darkens and discolors the wounded area. 