Another difference between compounds and mixtures of elements is the ease with which the elements can be separated. Mixtures, such as the atmosphere, contain two or more substances that are relatively easy to separate. The individual components of a mixture can be physically separated from each other. 
Best Answer: mixtures 1) elements and compounds just mix together to form a mixture and no new compound is formed. 2)A mixture has a variable composition. 3)A mixture shows the properties of constituent substances 4)The constiuents can be seperated easily byphysical method. 
A compound is a substance in which atoms of different elements are chemically held to one another. A mixture is a substance made by combining two or more different materials in such a way that no chemical reaction occurs. A mixture can usually be separated back into its original components, a compound can not. The difference is that a compound is a chemically combined  'mixture' (well defined, with one set of properties) and a mixture  is not chemically combined (in a non-defined, variable combination  of compounds and/or elements, all with its own properties:  kerosine/gasoline/naphta, moist/dry air).
Elements and compounds are pure chemical substances found in nature. The difference between an element and a compound is that an element is a substance made of same type of atoms, whereas a compound is made of different elements in definite proportions. Examples of elements include iron, copper, hydrogen and oxygen
1 An element is any amount of one particular kind of atom. 2  A compound is a combination of two or more different elements. 3  A mixture is a substance made by combining two or more compounds without each substance chemically bonding. Elements are the things you see on the periodic table: an element is a substance made up of only one type of atom. A compound is the result of two or more elements that have b … een chemically bonded. For example, if you chemically bond aluminum and iodine, you get aluminum iodide.
Compounds are substances composed of two or more different elements. Compounds are also pure substances. A mixture is a physical combination of elements or compunds where the parts of the mixture are not chemically bonded and so retain their own identity. These elements and compounds can be separated by physical means. (Answer #2). We are looking at the difference between elements, compounds, and mixtures. Elements are the purest form of a chemical substance and are composed of only one type of atom. In other words, all of the atoms in an element will have the same number of protons.
The physical and chemical properties of a compound are different from its constituent elements. Its particles are of the same kind and are homogeneous. The physical properties of a mixture are similar to its constituent elements and its chemical properties are the result of the substances that they are made of. Its particles are of different kinds and may or may not be homogeneous. Other examples of mixtures are air (mixture of gases) and brass (mixture of copper and zinc). Summary: 1. In a compound, there is chemical union between the elements, while there is no chemical reaction or bonding between elements in a mixture.
Note that a compound: 1  consists of atoms of two or more different elements bound together, 2  can be broken down into a simpler type of matter (elements) by chemical means (but not by physical means), 3  has properties that are different from its component elements, and. 4  always contains the same ratio of its component atoms. Note that a mixture: 1  consists of two or more different elements and/or compounds physically intermingled, 2  can be separated into its components by physical means, and. 3  often retains many of the properties of its components.
The difference is that a compound is a chemically combined 'mixture' (well defined, with one set of properties) and a mixture is not chemically combined (in a non-defined, variable combination of compounds and/or elements, all with its own properties: kerosine/gasoline/naphta, moist/dry air). Elements are the things you see on the periodic table: an element is a substance made up of only one type of atom. A compound is the result of two or more elements that have b … een chemically bonded. For example, if you chemically bond aluminum and iodine, you get aluminum iodide.