1 It regulates pH by absorbing bicarbonate and secreting protons (H +) into the filtrate, or by absorbing protons and secreting bicarbonate into the filtrate. 2  Sodium and potassium levels are controlled by secreting K + and absorbing Na 3  + . Sodium absorption by the distal tubule is mediated by the hormone aldosterone. 1 It regulates pH by absorbing bicarbonate and secreting protons (H +) into the filtrate, or by absorbing protons and secreting bicarbonate into the filtrate. 2  Sodium and potassium levels are controlled by secreting K + and absorbing Na + .
Fluid in the filtrate entering the proximal convoluted tubule is reabsorbed into the peritubular capillaries. This is driven by sodium transport from the lumen into the blood by the Na+/K+ ATPase in the basolateral membrane of the epithelial cells. Sodium reabsorption is primarily driven by this P-type ATPase. The proximal tubule is the portion of the duct system of the nephron of the kidney which leads from Bowman's capsule to the loop of Henle.
Please try again later. The distal convoluted tubule is the most distal portion of the nephron and is responsible for the resorption of sodium, water and secretion of hydrogen potassium. 
1 Sodium absorption by the distal tubule is mediated by the hormone aldosterone. 2  Aldosterone increases sodium reabsorption. 3  Sodium and chloride (salt) reabsorption is also mediated by a group of kinases called WNK kinases. 4  There are 4 different WNK kinases, WNK1, WNK2, WNK3, and WNK4. 1 It regulates pH by absorbing bicarbonate and secreting protons (H +) into the filtrate, or by absorbing protons and secreting bicarbonate into the filtrate. 2  Sodium and potassium levels are controlled by secreting K + and absorbing Na + .
1 reabsorbs Na+ ions through coupled secretion of H+ or K+ ions into the tubular fluid, a process which requires the presence of the adrenal hormone aldosterone. 2  By acidifying the urine the distal convoluted tubule plays an important role in acid-base balance. Functions of the Distal Convoluted Tubule. The distal convoluted tubule. 1  reabsorbs Na+ ions through coupled secretion of H+ or K+ ions into the tubular fluid, a process which requires the presence of the adrenal hormone aldosterone.
the main function of Distal convoluted tubule, a part of nephron in the kidney is to secrete urine into the calyx of the kidney. The distal convoluted tubule is a part of the kidney, used to  regulate certain chemicals in the body. It empties out into the  renal calyces. Edit. Share to: Answered. In Human Anatomy and Physiology.
The distal convoluted tubule is the nephron segment that lies immediately downstream of the macula densa. Although short in length, the distal convoluted tubule plays a critical role in sodium, potassium, and divalent cation homeostasis. 
Once the filtrate passes through the thick ascending limb of Henle, it enters the distal convoluted tubule, which is a duct of the renal tubule located in the kidney's cortex that reabsorbs calcium, sodium, and chloride and regulates the pH of urine by secreting protons and absorbing bicarbonate. Renal tubules are essential structures in the kidneys. This lesson explores the function of the renal tubule and its parts, including the proximal and distal convoluted tubules, the loop of Henle, and the collecting duct.