The patella, or kneecap, is the loose, moveable bone on the front of the knee. The patella is a link between the pelvis, hip, and foot. The patella is part of the extensor mechanism of the leg; the extensor mechanism acts as a stabilizer when we straighten our leg. A very common knee problem is when the patella moves as the knee bends or straightens. This happens because of a muscle or structural imbalance. Normally the patella moves along a path controlled by the quadriceps muscle.
Click to read more below. The muscles of the knee include the quadriceps, hamstrings, and the muscles of the calf. These muscles work in groups to flex, extend and stabilize the knee joint. These motions of the knee allow the body to perform such important movements as walking, running, kicking, and jumping. Muscles of the Knee. The muscles of the knee include the quadriceps, hamstrings, and the muscles of the calf. These muscles work in groups to flex, extend and stabilize the knee joint.
Several kinds of supporting and moving parts, including bones, cartilage, muscles, ligaments, and tendons, help the knees do their job (see box “Joint Basics”). Each of these structures is subject to disease and injury. When a knee problem affects your ability to do things, it can have a big impact on your life. 
An examination of the knee is done, including the patella to find out the source of your pain and to find the position of your patella. You may be examined standing, sitting and lying down. Muscle strength will also be tested for muscle imbalance that can affect tracking of the patella. A very common knee problem is when the patella moves as the knee bends or straightens. This happens because of a muscle or structural imbalance. Normally the patella moves along a path controlled by the quadriceps muscle.
Used to bend the knee. TENDONS OF THE KNEE: Tendons join muscle to bone. The quadriceps tendon hooks quad muscles to the patella (kneecap); patella tendon connects the patella to the shinbone. The quadriceps tendon and patellar tendon actually connect to form one continuous tendon that covers the patella. BONES OF THE KNEE: The femur (thigh bone), tibia (shin bone), patella (knee cap), fibula (smaller bone next to shin bone). Muscles, tendons and ligaments connect the knee bones. The kneecap glides in a groove in the thighbone and adds leverage to the thigh muscles, which are used to extend the leg. The thigh bone and shine bone come together at the knee joint and move on one another when bending or straightening the leg
Torn ligament or tendon. Knee pain may be caused by torn ligaments or tendons. Ligaments are tough bands of tissue that connect the bones at the knee joint; tendons connect the muscles to the bone. You can tear these tissues during running sports such as rugby or football. Sudden pain in one of the knees is usually the result of overusing the knee or injuring it. In many cases, you don't need to see your GP. The knee joint is particularly vulnerable to damage and pain because it takes the full weight of your body and any extra force when you run or jump.
Tendons connect the knee bones to the leg muscles that move the knee joint. Ligaments join the knee bones and provide stability to the knee: 1  The anterior cruciate ligament prevents the femur from sliding backward on the tibia (or the tibia sliding forward on the femur). 1 Knee pain around the kneecap results. 2  Patellar tendonitis: Inflammation of the tendon connecting the kneecap (patella) to the shin bone. 3  This occurs mostly in athletes from repeated jumping. 4  Knee bursitis: Pain, swelling, and warmth in any of the bursae of the knee. 5  Bursitis often occurs from overuse or injury.
Pain on the outside of your knee can also be due to arthritis. Pain on the Inside part of your knee. The inside of the knee is the side closest to your other knee. This side is known as the MEDIAL side of your knee. Again, this area can be subdivided into three major areas. The first is the spot where your joint begins otherwise known as your joint line. SYMPTOMS-Knee 2. Pain on the sides of the knee. Pain on the Outside part of your knee. This outside part of the knee is the side where the palm of your corresponding hand would touch. This is known as the LATER