How long does pregnancy last and how many kittens will by cat have are two of the most common questions cat owners have. The regular gestation period for cats is between 58 and 65 days, or approximately 9 weeks. A queen (pregnant cat) may have anywhere from 1 to 8 kittens at a time. The average being 2 to 5 kittens.
Here are some of the things that should happen as your cat goes through a successful pregnancy. Early In The Pregnancy: Gestation or the length of pregnancy of a cat averages 64 days. It is generally between 62 and 67 days or about 9-10 weeks. You might notice subtle indications of pregnancy after the first 3 weeks. The cat’s nipples will begin to swell and their color will change from white to a rosy pink. 
Duration [edit]. For most species, the amount a fetus grows before birth determines the length of the gestation period. Smaller species normally have a shorter gestation period than larger animals. For example, a cat's gestation normally takes 58–65 days while an elephant's takes nearly 2 years (21 months). However, growth does not necessarily determine the length of gestation for all species, especially for those with a breeding season. 
1 If a cat's yearly age is determined by multiplying seven (a rough estimate, to be sure), then a cat pregnancy is really 14 months long. 2  If, on the other hand, a pregnant one-year-old cat is considered to be 15 years old in human years (another unproven estimate) the comparative length of pregnancy jumps to 30 months. 1
Greater accuracy in the determination of cat pregnancy length can be achieved by limiting male and female cat copulation periods to about 1-2 days or by measuring serial blood progesterone levels daily or every other day (every second day) during the feline estrus and mating period. Hence the variation in the length quoted for cat pregnancy length: people who start the count from the first witnessed mating will often find longer feline gestation periods and people who start the countdown from the most recent copulation witnessed may well have shorter feline gestation period figures.
If your cat was in heat and had access to a whole male cat, the likelihood that she is pregnant is very strong. A pregnant queen will show both physical and personality changes which will become more evident around three weeks after breeding. The gestation period for cats runs from 60 to 67 days. 
How to Tell if a Cat is Pregnant. Three Parts: Recognizing Signs of Fertility Looking for Signs of Pregnancy Caring for a Pregnant Cat. The typical gestation period for cats is about 9 weeks, and a pregnant cat will begin to display telling physical and behavioral changes soon after becoming pregnant.
A. Pregnancy in the cat normally lasts about 60-63 days long. In cases of large litters, length is usually lessened. In cases of a small litter number, length may increase
KITTEN FETUS 1: Stage of cat pregnancy photograph 30: This is an image of the entire uterus of a female cat at 38-44 days gestation (6 weeks gestation). The four uterine swellings have continued to grow and are nowcontacting those adjacent to them. They range in length from 8.5-9cm long in this individual. Stage of cat pregnancy photograph 13: This is an image of the fetal kitten at 25-28 days gestation(4 weeks gestation). Its crown rump length is about 2.8cm (28mm). The fetal kitten's liver (large redpatch in lower abdomen) is large and well-formed.