There's a new Trump in town! Tiffany Trump, the lesser-known daughter of Donald Trump with his second ex-wife Marla Maples, hit New York City this week, spending some time with her mother in her father's hometown. Tiffany, 20, is a student at the University of Pennsylvania, studying sociology within the College of Arts & Sciences.
Tiffany Trump was raised thousands of miles away from her famous father, instead living with her mother in California. According to the 20-year-old, living far away from her famous family has given her a different perspective on life.
Donald Trump’s daughter, Ivanka Trump, is known to be a blonde stunner. However, it looks like Donald’s youngest daughter, Tiffany, is out to steal the spotlight! The 21-year-old Tiffany shared some photos on her Instagram taken from her vacation at the Trumps’ Mar-A-Lago club in Palm Beach.
Meet Tiffany Trump, the under-wraps daughter of Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump. The 21-year-old does what many young and wealthy people do — she takes trips to the Hamptons, snaps Instagram pictures for her followers, and loves and supports her dad unconditionally.
Ivanka Trump isn't Donald Trump's only gorgeous daughter! Tiffany Trump, the business mogul's kid with second wife Marla Maples, took to Instagram to share a series of bikini-clad snapshots during a sunny vacation at her dad's Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Florida.
Tiffany Trump was raised thousands of miles away from her famous father, instead living with her mother in California. According to The Mail, Trump moved to the west coast in 1995 when she was just five-years-old with her mother, Marla Maples, just before divorcing her husband in 1999.
Tiffany was raised by her model mom in California, and she said living far away from her famous family gave her a different outlook on life. Since I have grown up on the West Coast, I’m definitely different from all of them growing up on the East Coast, she added. It’s a different kind of lifestyle.
Tiffany grew up in California with mother Marla Maples, Donald Trump's second wife, and went to Calabasas' $31,205-a-year Viewpoint School.
Donald Trump's Daughter Tiffany, 20, Is Gorgeous. We kind of forgot Donald Trump had a 20-year-old daughter! Tiffany Trump, The Donald's daughter with second wife Marla Maples, took to Instagram to share a snapshot with her mama -- she definitely has inherited the actress' good looks.