GDP per capita is a measure of average income per person in a country. 1  GDP stands for Gross domestic product. 2  GDP per capita divides the GDP by the population. 3  Real GDP per capita takes into account inflation. 1 GDP stands for Gross domestic product. 2  This measure National income / National Output and National expenditure. 3  GDP per capita divides the GDP by the population. 4
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT PER CAPITA Economic development Macroeconomic Performance Core indicator 1. INDICATOR (a) Name: Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita. (b) Brief Definition: Levels of GDP per capita are obtained by dividing GDP at current market prices by the population.
GDP per capita is a measure of average income per person in a country. 1  GDP stands for Gross domestic product. 2  This measure National income / National Output and National expenditure. 3  GDP per capita divides the GDP by the population. 4  Real GDP per capita takes into account inflation. 1
Real GDP per Capita Definition. GDP, Gross Domestic Product measures the national output of an economy. This measures the volume of goods and services produced in a given year. Real GDP takes into account inflation. In other words Real GDP measures the actual increase in goods and services and excludes the impact of rising prices. Real GDP per capita takes into account the average GDP per person in the economy.
An approximation of the value of goods produced per person in the country, equal to the country's GDP divided by the total number of people in the country. YES NO 3 people found this helpful. “ Even though China is expected to overtake the United States in total Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the United States still maintains a significantly higher GDP per capita, which indicates a higher standard of living for the average U.S. citizen.
DEFINITION of 'Gross Domestic Product-GDP'. Gross domestic product (GDP) is the monetary value of all the finished goods and services produced within a country's borders in a specific time period. Though GDP is usually calculated on an annual basis, it can be calculated on a quarterly basis as well.
Noun. 1. gross domestic product-the measure of an economy adopted by the United States in 1991; the total market values of goods and services produced by workers and capital within a nation's borders during a given period (usually 1 year). GDP
DEFINITION of 'Per Capita GDP '. A measure of the total output of a country that takes the gross domestic product (GDP) and divides it by the number of people in the country. The per capita GDP is especially useful when comparing one country to another because it shows the relative performance of the countries.
Definition. Gross Domestic Product. The total market value of all final goods and services produced in a country in a given year, equal to total consumer, investment and government spending, plus the value of exports, minus the value of imports. GDP Reporting.