The Hospital for Sick Children, also known as Sick Kids Hospital, is a children's hospital located on University Avenue in the Discovery District of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. For the hospital in Edinburgh, Scotland, see Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh.
For the hospital in London formerly known as the Hospital for Sick Children, see Great Ormond Street Hospital. For the hospitals in Scotland formerly known as the Hospital for Sick Children, see Royal Hospital for Sick Children. For the hospital in Edinburgh, Scotland, see Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh.
St. Michael's Hospital. 30 Bond Street, Toronto. Directions: From Queen Station, proceed one block east on Queen Street East to Victoria Street. St Michael's Hospital is located on the north side of Queen Street East, between Victoria Street and Bond Street. Directions: From Spadina Station take the 510 Spadina streetcar south to to the corner of College Street and Spadina Avenue, proceed east on College Street one block to Huron Street and north on Huron to Russell Street.
Centre for Addiction and Mental Health. 33 Russell Street, Toronto. Directions: From Spadina Station take the 510 Spadina streetcar south to to the corner of College Street and Spadina Avenue, proceed east on College Street one block to Huron Street and north on Huron to Russell Street.
Adult survivors of childhood cancer stay in better health and require fewer visits to emergency departments if they are patients of specialized survivor clinics, says a new Ontario study from The Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids) and the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES). SickKids contributes to major international reports supporting the United Nations’ new global strategy for women’s, children’s and adolescents’ health (Thursday, September 24, 2015). On September 15-27, 2015, world leaders are convening in New York City for the 70th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).
Read More. Through the provision of Business Advisory and International Education services, SickKids International’s expert team can work with you to develop transformative, sustainable solutions that will enable your organization to meet its child health goals. 
How to get to SickKids by public transit. TTC SickKids is located between two subway stations on the University-Spadina line. From the north: Exit at Queen’s Park station and walk one block south on University Avenue. From the south, including travelling from Union Station: Exit at St. Patrick station and walk two blocks north on University Avenue. The 505 Dundas and 506 Carlton streetcars stop at University Avenue. For more information on how to get to SickKids by TTC call 416-393-4636 or visit www.ttc.ca. GO Transit SickKids is a short subway ride from Union Station on the University-Spadina line.
The Hospital for Sick Children, also known as SickKids, is located in downtown Toronto at 555 University Avenue, between Gerrard and Elm streets. The hospital has two main entrances – 555 University Avenue and 170 Elizabeth Street (the newer Atrium building behind the older 555 University building). The 505 Dundas and 506 Carlton streetcars stop at University Avenue. For more information on how to get to SickKids by TTC call 416-393-4636 or visit www.ttc.ca. GO Transit SickKids is a short subway ride from Union Station on the University-Spadina line.