Nationality differs technically and legally from citizenship, which is a different legal relationship between a person and a country. The noun national can include both citizens and non-citizens. In English and some other languages, the word nationality is sometimes used to refer to an ethnic group (a group of people who share a common ethnic identity, language, culture, descent, history, and so forth).
Best Answer: n. people having common origins or traditions and often comprising a nation n. the status of belonging to a particular nation by birth or naturalization Your nationality is the country you come from: American, Canadian, and Russian are all nationalities. 3) you can claim nationality of a country by birth, descent (child or grandchild of citizens) or naturalization (marriage) if you are born in a different country from your familys birth, and then you claim that citizenship you are then that nationality.
Report Abuse. Your nationality is the country or group of countries from which your passport was issued. It is not where you come from or came from, nor where you are resident or domiciled. Your can have more than one nationality if you have more than one passport
2) the country that you hold a passport of. 3) you can claim nationality of a country by birth, descent (child or grandchild of citizens) or naturalization (marriage) if you are born in a different country from your familys birth, and then you claim that citizenship you are then that nationality. this happens a lot in the irish, italian, british diaspora
Nationality. Nationality is the legal relationship between a person and a nation state. Nationality normally confers some protection of the person by the state, and some obligations on the person towards the state. What these rights and duties are vary from country to country. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: nationality (noun). people having common origins or traditions and often comprising a nation. immigrants of the same nationality often seek each other out; such images define their sense of nationality.
Best Answer: nationality is along the same lines as your citizenship. if you have american citizenship you are of american nationality. heritage or ethnic background are where you family originally came from. Source(s): Bo · 7 years ago. Anybody who is a minority in the US and first generation immigrants can be thought of having an ethnicity because they mostly have different customs. Majority American born citizens have American nationality. An exception is first generation immigrsnts-whe they speak of nationality they mean the country the
nationality is the country you were born in ethnicity includes anything from race language religion customs and religion that makes you belong for a certain group for example a person born in Venezuela..their nationality is Venezuelan and their ethnicity is most likely Hispanic/Latino. I HAVE A QUESTION · 7 years ago. Anybody who is a minority in the US and first generation immigrants can be thought of having an ethnicity because they mostly have different customs. Majority American born citizens have American nationality. An exception is first generation immigrsnts-whe they speak of nationality they mean the country they came from.
Nationality is the legal relationship between a person and a state. Nationality affords the state jurisdiction over the person and affords the person the protection of the state. What these rights and duties are vary from state to state. By custom and international conventions, it is the right of each state to determine who its nationals are. In English and some other languages, the word nationality is sometimes used to refer to an ethnic group (a group of people who share a common ethnic identity, language, culture, descent, history, and so forth).