Pregnancy is a time full of mixed emotions – joy and apprehension, excitement and worry. Speak to other pregnant women who know exactly what it feels like. These pregnancy groups are a great place to share your experiences (good and not so good), ask all your questions and make some friends along the way. Hi all, I am a bit worried as I drank eno few times when I was having acidity and someone told me now that's its not safe ...
Next. I have gastroenteritis,I phoned my midwife about the illness thats affecting me kind of badly.I happen to vomit and have a egg taste-burp.I've had this many times,but not while pregnant.I am 39 weeks 1 day pregnant.I was just wondering if it is ok to take during pregnancy.My midwife said to keep hydrated and... 
Yes. According to the Eno website, it is safe during pregnancy. So it is better to have simple and natural food as for as possible, during first three months of pregnancy. Medical profession have a big list of drugs which are time tested and SAFE to be used in first three months of pregnancy. So there is no need to worry about.
It might be better to use something like Gaviscon. This will probably relieve your symptoms better. The Eno you have taken should not harm the pregnancy. Best wishes. The information provided does not constitute a diagnosis of your condition. You should consult a medical practitioner or other appropriate health care professional for a physical exmanication, diagnosis and formal advice
TUMS During Pregnancy. During pregnancy, there are many reasons women may experience heartburn. This includes changes to diet, fluctuating hormone levels, and crowding of the abdomen. In fact, forty to eighty percent of all pregnant women report having symptoms of heartburn. Though you should always check with your health care provider to determine the best individual remedy, TUMS ® antacid is effective in the fight against heartburn during pregnancy.
Check other options.: Eno – manufacturer recommends that you consult with your physician if pregnant or breast-feeding. The basic ingredient is fda pregnancy category c. ...Read more. 73,000 doctors available. Connect with a doctor in minutes via phone, tablet or computer, 24/7. Pregnancy (Definition). If you're pregnant or planning to get pregnant, there are many things you can do to give your baby a healthy start: Regular prenatal visits along with laboratory testing, ultrasounds, prenatal vitamins and immunizations (like the flu shot and whopping cough booster).
If you suffer from heartburn or related conditions (reason for drinking Eno), it is best to take Gaviscon (tablets or emulsion) as this is completely safe for the baby. Consult with your doc before taking any medication (including over the counter meds) during pregnancy as most can have some effect on the baby. Hi Doc, can you please help, I have been told by none medical friends/family that I cannot drink Eno during my pregnancy because my child will have skin problems an all kinds of allergies.Please help.
Meghana19. My gynac said eno is fine as long as you dont hv it very frequently and not more than once in a day. She had also prescribed Rabemac when I complained of too much acidity. Again she told me to take it only for 3 days and not repeat after that. Have cold milk first thing in morng and last thing in night. Hi all, I am a bit worried as I drank eno few times when I was having acidity and someone told me now that's its not safe ...
A Doctor is Standing by to Answer All Your Pregnancy Questions Now! Pregnancy is a beautiful but complicated process. There are thousands of questions every parent wants to ask but frequently forgets during regular doctor visits. With HealthTap, you can have a doctor on demand anytime, anywhere! Pregnancy (Definition). If you're pregnant or planning to get pregnant, there are many things you can do to give your baby a healthy start: Regular prenatal visits along with laboratory testing, ultrasounds, prenatal vitamins and immunizations (like the flu shot and whopping cough booster).