An Alternative Definition for IQR. In some texts, the interquartile range is defined differently. It is defined as the difference between the largest and smallest values in the middle 50% of a set of data. To compute an interquartile range using this definition, first remove observations from the lower quartile. Then, remove observations from the upper quartile. Then, from the remaining observations, compute the difference between the largest and smallest values. The interquartile range (IQR) is a measure of variability, based on dividing a data set into quartiles. Quartiles divide a rank-ordered data set into four equal parts.
The IQR is defined as the difference between the upper quartile and the lower quartile of a data set, sometimes written as Q3 - Q1. Ad. 2. Organize your numerical data set in ascending order. IQR stands for Interquartile Range, and it is used in statistical analysis to help draw conclusions about a data set. It is often preferred over the range in measuring the spread of a data set, because it excludes most outliers.
Difference between the first quartile (25th percentile) and the third quartile (75th percentile) of an ordered range of data. It contains middle 50 percent of the distribution and is unaffected by extreme values. Half of this range (25 percent or the distribution) is called semi-interquartile range. 
Inter-quartile Range (IQR) : It is used for the statistical calculations of set of data which is divided into 4 equal parts. IQR is the difference between the third and first quartiles. Learn what is inter-quartile range (iqr). Also find the definition and meaning for various math words from this math dictionary.
This value is the first quartile and denote it by Q1.4. Find the median of the upper half of the distribution which has values larger than the median. This is the third quartile represented by Q3.5. Use the formula IQR = Q3 –Q1 to calculate the interquartile range. From the diagram it is clear, 50% of data are distributed between the limits of first and the third quartiles. The range of this middle 50% distribution is called the interquartile range and it is denoted shortly as IQR.
The interquartile range is a value that is the difference between the upper quartile value and the lower quartile value. Coach Taylor can use the interquartile range to summarize the overall accuracy of his players. To find the quartiles of this data set use the following steps: 1  Order the data from least to greatest. 2  Find the median of the data set and divide the data set into two halves. 3  Find the median of the two halves.
In descriptive statistics, the interquartile range (IQR), also called the midspread or middle fifty, is a measure of statistical dispersion, being equal to the difference between the upper and lower quartiles, IQR = Q 3 − Q 1. For a symmetric distribution (where the median equals the midhinge, the average of the first and third quartiles), half the IQR equals the median absolute deviation (MAD). The median is the corresponding measure of central tendency.
Definition of INTERQUARTILE RANGE. : the range of values of the variable in a statistical distribution that lies between the upper and lower quartiles. ADVERTISEMENT. inter- + quartile. Origin of INTERQUARTILE RANGE. inter- + quartile. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
The interquartile range is a value that is the difference between the upper quartile value and the lower quartile value. To find the interquartile range, simply take the upper quartile and subtract the lower quartile. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. To find the quartiles of this data set use the following steps: 1  Order the data from least to greatest. 2  Find the median of the data set and divide the data set into two halves. 3  Find the median of the