Of these devices, volume and expression effects pedals are among the most fundamental. While a volume pedal seems like a simple thing at first glance, many performers would agree that it's a seriously effective tool to have on your pedalboard. A volume pedal is part of the 'dynamics' family of effects. Along with the volume and expression rocker pedals, you'll also find some overdrive stompboxes amongst the selection here. With these, you can have pre-set tones, from subtle grit to serious distortion, that turn on and off in an instant.
To add even more effects to your sound, you might use an expression pedal. These use a similar rocker design to volume pedals, and some are actually dual-mode pedals that can work as one or the other. Along with the volume and expression rocker pedals, you'll also find some overdrive stompboxes amongst the selection here. With these, you can have pre-set tones, from subtle grit to serious distortion, that turn on and off in an instant.
An organ expression pedal is typically a large pedal, resembling an oversized automobile accelerator, either partially or fully recessed within the organ console and located either directly above or to the right of the organ's pedalboard. A stand alone expression pedal used with electronic keyboards, amplifiers, and effects is usually a smaller pedal made of metal or plastic that can be placed on the floor and then connected to the device with an instrument cable.
The expression pedal is clearly visible directly above the pedalboard. An expression pedal is an important control found on many musical instruments including organs, electronic keyboards and pedal steel guitar. The musician uses the pedal to control different aspects of the sound, commonly volume. A stand alone expression pedal used with electronic keyboards, amplifiers, and effects is usually a smaller pedal made of metal or plastic that can be placed on the floor and then connected to the device with an instrument cable.
An expression pedal is an important control found on many musical instruments including organs, electronic keyboards and pedal steel guitar. A stand alone expression pedal used with electronic keyboards, amplifiers, and effects is usually a smaller pedal made of metal or plastic that can be placed on the floor and then connected to the device with an instrument cable.
When you want to control the sound of your guitar on the fly, your pedals are the way to go. From adding effects to managing your signal routing, there's a pedal for everything. Some of the most basic, yet powerful, of these are volume and expression effects pedals. Despite their simplicity, these pedals can have a huge impact on your performance. High-quality pedals with metal construction are the norm, so you won't have to look far to find a pedal that can take some punishment. Your volume and expression effects pedals put the most important characteristics of your sound directly into your control.
The expression pedal gives the organist control over the external source of power, and thus the volume, of the instrument, while leaving his or her hands free. A stand alone expression pedal used with electronic keyboards, amplifiers, and effects is usually a smaller pedal made of metal or plastic that can be placed on the floor and then connected to the device with an instrument cable.
Expression pedals work together with multi-effects units, amplifiers or synths to provide adjustment or generate additional effects. This gives you control over aspects such as wah-wah frequency or the timing of delays and modulation effects. Along with the volume and expression rocker pedals, you'll also find some overdrive stompboxes amongst the selection here. With these, you can have pre-set tones, from subtle grit to serious distortion, that turn on and off in an instant.
In some cases, volume and expression effects pedals are one and the same. Multiple outputs allow you to control volume and effects separately—or, if you feel so inclined, both at once. An expression pedal is designed to accompany a multi-effects unit, amplifier or synthesizer that supports it. In a setup like this, the pedal gives you precise control over such things as the frequency of wah effects or the rate and time of modulation and delay effects. High-quality pedals with metal construction are the norm, so you won't have to look far to find a pedal that can take some punishment. Your volume and expression effects pedals put the most important characteristics of your sound directly into your control.