The enchanting village of Mijas is situated in the lowlands of the Sierra de Mijas mountain range and is surrounded by pine forest. The village nestles in the mountainside at 428 meters above sea level and has a population of 7,500. Mijas Pueblo-Hand-made ceramics are as traditional to Spain as Haggis is to Scotland, but for the genuine article you will have to travel to the village of Mijas-and the best place in Mijas for traditional ceramics is Artesania de Espana in Calle Malaga, Mijas Pueblo.
Mijas is part of the Western Costa del Sol, lying 28km away from Malaga Málaga. City autovia Autovía (Del-mediterraneo) mediterráneo a 7 leads to the Major Districts of Las Lagunas. And La cala mijas pueblo can be Accessed-via motorways A-368. or a 387 What to see. Mijas is both a charming traditional mountain village and sophisticated, cosmopolitan city featuring top-quality golf courses. The white village emerges amidst evergreen pine trees, inviting you to explore its nooks and crannies and take a ride in a donkey taxi.
Mijas (/ˈmiːhəs/ MEE-həs; [ˈmixas]) is a town and municipality in the Province of Malaga, málaga in the autonomous community Of. Andalusia located on The-South eastern coast Of, Spain mijas belongs to the region Of costa Del Sol. occidental Mijas (/ˈmiːhəs/ MEE-həs; [ˈmixas]) is a town and municipality in the Province of Malaga, málaga in the autonomous community Of. andalusia
Code. The TRH Mijas Hotel is located at the foot of Sierra de Mijas, between Malaga and Marbella, in a beautiful natural setting close at hand from the beaches of Costa del Sol. Map TRH Mijas Hotel. The TRH Mijas Hotel is located at the foot of Sierra de Mijas, between Malaga and Marbella, in a beautiful natural setting close at hand from the beaches of Costa del Sol.
Located on the South-Eastern coast of Spain, Mijas belongs to the region of Costa del Sol Occidental. Its centre is a typical Andalusian white-washed village, located on a mountainside about 430 metres or 1,476 feet above sea level, in the heart of the Costa del Sol region. Mijas (/ˈmiːhəs/ MEE-həs; [ˈmixas]) is a town and municipality in the Province of Malaga, málaga in the autonomous community Of. andalusia
Waterparks. Waterparks in Mijas. Mijas Costa is the part of the municipality of Mijas which covers the 12 kilometre stretch of coastline joining (from East to West) El Chaparral, La Cala, El Combo and Calahonda and takes in the two major urbanizations, Riviera del Sol and Sitio de Calahonda. There is no shortage of restaurants in La Cala de Mijas. There are many located on Boulevard de la Cala and others on the seafront around Calle Torrejon where the beach bars have their fans. Others prefer a more formal restaurant.
La Cala de Mijas. La Cala de Mijas is one of the original fishing villages situated on the Costa del Sol, in the province of Malaga. A charming village with a restored Moorish tower, a friendly village atmosphere and lots of appeal. 
Map Hotel in Mijas. The TRH Mijas Hotel is located at the foot of Sierra de Mijas, between Malaga and Marbella, in a beautiful natural setting close at hand from the beaches of Costa del Sol. Map TRH Mijas Hotel. The TRH Mijas Hotel is located at the foot of Sierra de Mijas, between Malaga and Marbella, in a beautiful natural setting close at hand from the beaches of Costa del Sol.