Most corals, like other cnidarians, contain a symbiotic algae called zooxanthellae, within their gastrodermal cells. The coral provides the algae with a protected environment and the compounds necessary for photosynthesis. A second feature all corals possess is a circle of tentacles, extensions of the body wall that surround the mouth. Tentacles help the coral to capture and ingest plankton for food, clear away debris from the mouth, and act as the animals primary means of defense (Barnes, R.D., 1987; Levinton, 1995).
The exclusively aquatic phylum Cnidaria is represented by polyps such as sea anemones and corals, and by medusae such as jellyfish. A polypoid or a medusoid cnidarian is a radially or biradially symmetrical, uncephalized animal with a single body opening, the mouth. 
Classification. The term ‘coral’ is commonly used for both ‘soft’ and ‘hard’ corals and sometimes includes other colonial Cnidaria (also commonly called Coelenterata). The term ‘Coral’, used without a qualifying term most commonly refers to hard or skeletonised corals and it is used this way here. Report an error. The term ‘coral’ is commonly used for both ‘soft’ and ‘hard’ corals and sometimes includes other colonial Cnidaria (also commonly called Coelenterata).
Corals are marine organisms of class Anthozoa (Kingdom Animalia, Phylum Cnidaria, Class Anthozoa) that typically live in large colonies of identical individuals. They are important reef builders in tropical seas, and are secretors of calcium carbonate (CaCO3) that forms their hard skeleton. Sequence analyses also supports the theory that Anthozoa are the first branch of the Phylum Cnidaria (Bridge et al. 1992). Only a few CaCO3-secreting corals or coral-like organisms are known from the early Cambrian (e.g., Sorauf and Savarese 1995), and the Cothoniida, are known from the middle Cambrian.
Corals are classified in the class Anthozoa of the phylum Cnidaria. They are divided into three subclasses, Hexacorallia, Octocorallia, and Ceriantharia. The Hexacorallia include the stony corals, the sea anemones and the zoanthids. These groups have polyps that generally have 6-fold symmetry. A coral head is a colony of myriad genetically identical polyps. Each polyp is a sac-like animal typically only a few millimeters in diameter and a few centimeters in length. A set of tentacles surround a central mouth opening.
Corals are marine invertebrates in the class Anthozoa of phylum Cnidaria. They typically live in compact colonies of many identical individual polyps. The group includes the important reef builders that inhabit tropical oceans and secrete calcium carbonate to form a hard skeleton. A coral head is a colony of myriad genetically identical polyps. Each polyp is a sac-like animal typically only a few millimeters in diameter and a few centimeters in length. A set of tentacles surround a central mouth opening.
The only members of the phylum found at the Canal are solitary corals. One of these corals, Micrabacia, may be the most common fossil found. Another common fossil found there, a solitary horn-shaped coral, has been given different names by different authors. 