There are also ways for non-Facebook users, or users who have lost access to their account, to file a complaint. Complaints are anonymous, and you are allowed to follow the progress of your complaint through the dashboard of your Facebook profile, when applicable. Facebook does not allow its service to be used for spam or harassment. Jupiterimages, Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Facebook allows small businesses two ways to file a complaint. Complaints help Facebook address any violations of its terms of servic
Step 5. Choose the reason for your report from the options provided by Facebook. If the slander is about you, choose It's harassing me from the options; if the post is about a friend, choose It's harassing a friend.. Click Continue to send the report. If you see an abusive or slanderous comment about yourself on the site, use Facebook's report feature to alert administrators. The site does caution, however, that not all content you find objectionable will automatically be removed.
Navigate to the content you want to complain about on Facebook. Click the Options link below or near the content. Select the Report option. Step 2. Select the option that most closely matches your complaint. For example, to complain about a photo, you can specify that you don't like the photo, that it is harassing, that it's spam or that it is your intellectual property. Step 3. Follow any onscreen instructions as requested to complete the complaint process. Step 2. Select the issue that most closely matches your complaint. For example, to report a copyright infringement, you can select Something on Facebook Violates My Rights.. Click Send. Step 3. Follow the onscreen instructions that appear.
Go to Facebook's Report a Violation of the Facebook Terms page if you don't have an account and want to file a complaint with Facebook. Step 2. Select the issue that most closely matches your complaint. For example, to report a copyright infringement, you can select Something on Facebook Violates My Rights.. Click Send. Step 3. Follow the onscreen instructions that appear.
You can report spam using the report links near most content types and features on Facebook. Keep in mind that you may have to log in to do so. If your account is sending spam, reset your password. Malware can also sometimes cause your account to post things without your knowledge. Learn how to remove malware.
How to Lodge a Complaint on Facebook. Facebook does not allow its service to be used for spam or harassment. Jupiterimages, Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Facebook allows small businesses two ways to file a complaint. Complaints help Facebook address any violations of its terms of service
To report a Page: 1  Go to the Page you want to report. 2  Click on the Page's cover photo. 3  Select Report Page. 4  Choose the option that best describes the issue and follow the on-screen instructions. Keep in mind that you may have to log in to do so. If your account is sending spam, reset your password. Malware can also sometimes cause your account to post things without your knowledge. Learn how to remove malware.
There is no direct contact to Facebook. You will need to report the post/photo/share in appropriate category to get it removed. Sometimes the reported content does not get removed as it's not considered violating Facebook's terms.
After you file a report, you can check on what Facebook is doing with it and any actions the site has taken. To access this information, click on the downward arrow at the top of your Timeline, select Settings and then select Support Dashboard.. You don't have to stand for inappropriate content on Facebook: The company encourages you to report content that violates its terms of use.