http://physchem.ox.ac.uk/MSDS/SO/sorbitan_monostearate.html. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_gx5205/is_1993/ai_n19124452. 1  Known as a Synthetic wax. 2  usually used for emulsifying(or blending of 2 substances that do not blend together naturally) water and oils. 
Sorbitan monostearate is made from sorbitol (a plant-based alcohol) and stearic acid, which is a fatty acid that occurs in plants and animals. Knowing something about manufacturing of industrial chemicals, I would say that stearic acid might be made from plant or animal fats, whichever is most available and cheapest. Question from KCribley. Recently I discovered that the baking yeast I purchase (and most of them that I looked at) have Sorbitan Monostearate added. I am a very frequent baker/breadmaker (almost every day) and wonder if I need to be concerned about this ingredient.
How to Use Sorbitan Monostearate. Sorbitan monostearate is not a health supplement. It is not an ingredient used in home baking or cooking. Sorbotan monostearate is generally found in processed and manufactured foods and beauty products. Sorbitan monostearate is used as a surfactant food additive; it is manufactured under variations of the name Span.
Sorbitan monostearate is an ester of sorbitan (a sorbitol derivative) and stearic acid and is sometimes referred to as a synthetic wax. It is primarily used as an emulsifier to keep water and oils mixed. Sorbitan monostearate is used in the manufacture of food and healthcare products and is a non-ionic surfactant with emulsifying, dispersing, and wetting properties. It is also employed to create synthetic fibers, metal machining fluid, and brighteners in the leather industry, and as an emulsifier in coatings, pesticides, and various applications in the plastics, food and cosmetics industries.
Cake mixes, icing, cookie coating, and puddings all use sorbitan monostearate. It is also used as a stabilizer in foods such as imitation whipped cream and other foam-like products. \r\n\tIt is a good substitute for the water content and fats found in milk; but with the added advantage that it does not spoil like milk. Sorbitan monostearate is used as a surfactant food additive; it is manufactured under variations of the name Span.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Sorbitan stearate is an essential ingredient in many lotions and other skin-care products. It acts as a humectant to bind moisture, thicken the product, and stabilize the mixture of water and oils. 
Sorbitans are also known as Spans. Sorbitan monostearate has been approved by the European Union for use as a food additive (emulsifier) (E number: E 491). It is also employed to create synthetic fibers, metal machining fluid, and brighteners in the leather industry, and as an emulsifier in coatings, pesticides, and various applications in the plastics, food and cosmetics industries.
Uses. Sorbitan monostearate is used as an emulsifying agent in cake mixes, icings, baked goods, puddings, imitation whipped cream, hemorrhoid creams, and creams to treat dry skin. It is often used with polysorbate 80. Similar molecules can be made using other fatty acids, such as the shorter chained lauric acid.
Description. Sorbitan monostearate is used to keep water and oil mixed in many food preparations. It is often used with a polysorbate to increase the emulsifying capabilities of both chemicals. It is sometimes referred to as synthetic wax. 
Aid Overall Health. Sorbitan monostearate is a fatty acid that has many uses in the food industry and in health and beauty care products. It is not a health supplement. Sorbitan monostearate is used as a food additive that works as a surfactant, or blender. Sorbitan monostearate is used as a surfactant food additive; it is manufactured under variations of the name Span.