Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is cancer of a type of white blood cells called lymphocytes. These cells are found in the bone marrow and other parts of the body. Bone marrow is the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps form all blood cells.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) Is a cancer of the bone marrow and the blood Progresses rapidly without treatment Affects mostly cells that aren't fully developed-these cells can't carry out their normal functions Can be a difficult disease to treat.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) Is a type of blood cancer that begins in the bone marrow Can progress either slowly or quickly depending on the form it takes Click here to access CLL statistics. What You Should Know CLL is the most common type of leukemia in adults.
Leukemia is a type of cancer that affects white blood cells. Because there are many forms of leukemia, prompt attention and an effective diagnosis are important in determining the most successful route of treatment.
1 Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many immature lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). 2  Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.
Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many immature lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (also called ALL or acute lymphocytic leukemia) is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
Leukemia is a form of cancer that affects blood-forming tissue, primarily the lymphatic system and bone marrow. The condition is similar to other types of cancer and occurs when white blood cells replicate uncontrollably. Leukemia is actually a blanket term that can refer to a spectrum of related cancers.
1 Adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). 2  Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. 3  Previous chemotherapy and exposure to radiation may increase the risk of developing ALL.