Recruiters take 9.5 hours, on average, to screen resumes résumés and applications submitted for a single job, opening the study. Found another factor is that many companies are expanding the scope of their job, requirements making positions more difficult to, fill according To Chris, ellehuus managing director AT. ceb And Many Are Lacking. Companies are seeing fewer applicants per job opening, but recruiters say they are still seeing too many unqualified candidates.
The average number of applications submitted per job opening fell to 118 in the fourth quarter, from 187 during the same period in 2010, according to new research from the Corporate Executive Board. And Many Are Lacking. Companies are seeing fewer applicants per job opening, but recruiters say they are still seeing too many unqualified candidates.
Although it varies with the company and the job, on average 250 resumes are received for each corporate job opening. Finding a position opening late can’t help your chances because the first resume is received within 200 seconds after a position is posted. 
This summer's university leavers face a tougher jobs market, with a forecast of a 4% fall in graduate vacancies. The Association of Graduate Recruiter (AGR) annual summer survey shows that leading UK employers are receiving an average of 85 applications per job. 
Applicants for each new job 'up 33 per cent'. Tweet. The average number of applicants for every job increases from 15 to 20 over the past year, rising to over 50 for some vacancies, new research reveals.
Over the past year, the number of applications for each job vacancy has jumped by more than 50 per cent for customer service, secretarial and retail roles. On average, the report said 46 people apply for each customer service job, 45 for each secretarial job and 42 for each retail job. John Salt, director of Totaljobs.com, one of the country's largest recruitment websites, said: 'The omens for 2012 are pretty grim.
The ratio of unemployed job seekers to job openings is a useful labor market indicator. It is calculated by dividing the number of unemployed workers by the number of job openings. In July 2015, there were 1.6 job seekers per job opening in the Northeast region, down from 2.0 in June 2015. The region’s ratio stood at 2.1 in July 2014. Nationally, the number of job openings increased by 8.1% and the number of unemployed decreased by 0.4% in June-July 2015. 
There could be a four per cent fall in jobs available to new grads this year, according to new research. Top employers are receiving around 85 applications for every graduate vacancy amid an expected drop in the number of jobs available, research suggests. The Association of Graduate Recruiters (AGR) annual summer survey reveals that leading companies are predicting that there will be a four per cent fall in the overall number of jobs available for new graduates this year compared to last.
Hospitality. 25.9. However, competition for jobs in the UK has seen an overall decline in the last year, according to CV-Library, which is to be expected given falling unemployment. The jobs board reported an average of 15.9 applicants per job in May 2015, compared with 18.3 in May 2014. By Adeola Adeyemo on 5 Jun 2015 in Recruitment & retention. The admin sector in Leeds saw as many as 71 applicants per job on CV-Library. New research from CV-Library has revealed that administrative roles attract the most competition among candidates, with an average of 57.3 applicants per job.