Remember that the washing will not end with one rental, you will need to rent many more times as long as there is dirt and you do not have your own pressure washer. The cost of buying a pressure washer ranges from $180 to $400. This means that with 3 to 4 rentals, you have covered the cost of buying your own. You therefore need to evaluate this carefully and see if it is value adding. Rental Prices of Power Washers. The best place to rent your washer from is the local store.
Availability Of Pressure Washer Rental Lowes. There are hundreds of pressure washer units available at Lowe’s, but your brand and model may not be available all the time. So, check with them first or reserve online at least three days before the actual date of use.
Many stores charge about $70 per day for a pressure washer of medium capacity that measures around 2000psi. Some stores also add insurance expense on top of this which can be around $15 making the total rental cost to be $85.
1 Do not forget that the more days you rent the pressure washer, the cheaper the daily rate is going to be. 2  The cost to rent a pressure washer often ranges from $50 to $100 depending on the specifications of the pressure washer and the agreements that you have made with the renting company.
Renting a Lowes pressure washer is surely a good option. Aside from the fact that Lowes is making sure that they can accommodate every single kind of cleaning needs, they are also making rental fees very affordable for all of their patrons.
1 Places such as Lowes and Home Depot will charge around $60 per day. 2  According to DoItYourself.com, they claim that average daily rental is going to be around $60 per day. 3  They also note that a good pressure washer should cost you around $350. 4  SunbeltRentals.com offers a variety of pressure washers.
1 The cost to rent a pressure washer often ranges from $50 to $100 depending on the specifications of the pressure washer and the agreements that you have made with the renting company. 2  Places such as Lowes and Home Depot will charge around $60 per day.