Taming Horses. To tame horses in Minecraft 1.6, you will have to find a horse first. Horses almost always spawn on the 'Plains' or close to it. They usually appear in groups of four. To tame a wild horse, you need to jump on it. To ride a horse, stand next to it and click the right mouse button. Now, you control the animal as if you're walking. The bottom of the screen displays a bar when you're on the back of your riding horse, which is the jump bar. The longer you hold down the space bar, the higher the jump.
Method 3 of 4: Equipping Items. 1. To put a chest on a mule, or a donkey, have a chest in your hand and right click on the mule (donkey's) back. That will put the chest on. Tips. 1  Feeding a horse will make it easier to tame. 2  They will eat wheat, hay bales, sugar, apples, bread, golden carrots, and golden apples. 3  Mules are not found naturally in Minecraft, instead you can breed one using a horse and a donkey.
This shows you how to tame a horse and there is a little fun thing you guys can do. 1  Minecraft - 2009 (YouTube Gaming). 2  People & Blogs. 
I was playing around in Creative with my daughter and I guess you can't ride horses in Creative mode... You must've been glitching, I was doing that last night. Remember that you'll need to put a saddle on it before you can actually steer the steer :-). At any rate, I'm disappointed to see a lack of South Park fans. This is the update I was waiting for, can't wait to do this stuff on my Xbox One. ---. Never let it be said that I can't admit that I'm wrong, and I'll murder anyone who says otherwise. No, my daughter is playing now, and when you stand next to the horse (in Creative mode only) it does not give the option to ride. Survival is fine.
Posted. hello random people and today i will be showing you how to tame a horse now for this you will need the latest snapshot found here: http://s3.amazonaws.com/Minecraft.Download/launcher/MinecraftDev.exe. 
1 Feeding a horse will make it easier to tame. 2  They will eat wheat, hay bales, sugar, apples, bread, golden carrots, and golden apples. 3  Mules are not found naturally in Minecraft, instead you can breed one using a horse and a donkey. 4  Donkey and mules cannot be equipped with armor, instead you can mount a chest on them. Tips. 1  Feeding a horse will make it easier to tame. 2  They will eat wheat, hay bales, sugar, apples, bread, golden carrots, and golden apples. 3  Mules are not found naturally in Minecraft, instead you can breed one using a horse and a donkey.
Taming Horses. Horses must be tamed before you can ride them. To tame a horse, approach it with nothing in your hand and right click on it. You will now be riding the horse&emdashfor a second or two, until it throws you off. Try again, and again, until finally you see some red hearts and the horse lets you stay on. To ride your horse, you will need a Saddle; these can be found in treasure chests in dungeons, mine shafts, desert temples or fortresses. Place the saddle in the correct slot of its inventory, and then you can ride! In survival mode (but not creative) you can see the horse’s health next to your own.
When you encounter a Horse, it may either be in the form of a Horse like so: Or they may be in the form of a donkey, like this: As of Minecraft version 1.6, Horses have become a feature in Minecraft. This blog will take you over all of the features of horses, including how to tame them, breed them and much more. The way that you tame the two of them is the same, and it is only their uses that vary. With Donkeys tere is only one slot on the inventory for a saddle as you cannot use Horse Armour on a Donkey. once items are placed into the slots, they show on the Horse and Donkey. You can right click a chest onto a Donkey in order to allow it to hold items, showing in its inventory like so.
1 To access the chest, right click while riding the mule/donkey. 2  To remove the chest, right click while riding the mule or donkey and there will be an icon of a chest in the armor slot. 3  Remove that chest via shift-clicking or dragging the chest to your inventory. Tips. 1  Feeding a horse will make it easier to tame. 2  They will eat wheat, hay bales, sugar, apples, bread, golden carrots, and golden apples. 3  Mules are not found naturally in Minecraft, instead you can breed one using a horse and a donkey.