Muscle twitches, also known as fasciculations, are involuntary muscle contractions that are minimal in force and localized to one area. Muscle twitches occur in small muscle groups that are connected to a single motor nerve fiber. Muscle twitches can occur in anyone and in any skeletal muscle. While they can sometimes be due to nervous system disorders or other underlying conditions, most frequently they are a normal body reaction. Abnormally high levels of stress or anxiety may increase the frequency with which you experience muscle twitches.
Common Causes of Muscle Twitches. Twitching of the eyelids, thumb or calf muscles in the legs are common and, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center, caused by anxiety or stress. This benign twitching comes and goes, usually not lasting for more than a few days. Disorders of the nervous system can also cause muscles to twitch. These include nerve damage, fibromyalgia, muscular dystrophy and Lou Gehrig's disease. Along with muscle twitching, weakness in the muscles accompanies these disorders.
Rare Causes of Muscle Twitches. Disorders of the nervous system can also cause muscles to twitch. These include nerve damage, fibromyalgia, muscular dystrophy and Lou Gehrig's disease. Along with muscle twitching, weakness in the muscles accompanies these disorders.
Muscle twitching, also known as muscle fasciculation, is marked by small muscle contractions in the body. Your muscles are composed of fibers, tissues, and nerves. When a nerve is stimulated or damaged, it may cause your muscle fibers to twitch. Many twitches experienced in your body are common and may go unnoticed. However, other types of twitching may be a sign of a nervous system condition and should be checked out by your doctor. This condition is fairly common, and symptoms usually go away after a couple of days. There are also less common and more serious causes of muscle twitching. These medical conditions and illnesses are often related to your nervous system. They may damage the nerves connected to your muscles, leading to twitching.
Muscle twitches, also called fasciculations, usually only affect a single muscle. They're characterized by tiny contractions inside the muscle, caused by a nerve impulse. Muscle spasms, also called muscle cramps, affect multiple muscle tissues and are brought on by a chemical imbalance in the body. Disorders of the nervous system can also cause muscles to twitch. These include nerve damage, fibromyalgia, muscular dystrophy and Lou Gehrig's disease. Along with muscle twitching, weakness in the muscles accompanies these disorders.
Muscle twitching is absolutely a sign of anxiety, and one that can cause a great deal of distress. Usually the fear with muscle twitching is that it might mean something more. People worry that their twitching may not just be anxiety, and if it is, they worry that they can't control it. Because muscle twitching is often associated with nerve and brain disorders, many people worry about what twitching muscles means. Twitching muscles may be incredibly annoying, but when it's caused by anxiety it's not dangerous.
Myoclonus is a brief, involuntary twitching of a muscle or a group of muscles. It describes a medical sign and, generally, is not a diagnosis of a disease. 