JBuilder. LINQ (Language Integrated Query) is a Microsoft programming model and methodology that essentially adds formal query capabilities into Microsoft .NET-based programming languages. LINQ offers a compact, expressive, and intelligible syntax for manipulating data. The real value of LINQ comes from its ability to apply the same query to an SQL database, a DataSet, an array of objects in memory and to many other types of data as well.
LINQ is an acronym for Language Integrated Query, which is descriptive for where it's used and what it does. The Language Integrated part means that LINQ is part of programming language syntax. In particular, both C# and VB are languages that ship with .NET and have LINQ capabilities. The other part of the definition, Query, explains what LINQ does; LINQ is used for querying data. Notice that I used the generic term data and didn't indicate what type of data. That's because LINQ can be used to query many different types of data, including relational, XML, and even objects.
Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) is an innovation introduced in Visual Studio 2008 and .NET Framework version 3.5 that bridges the gap between the world of objects and the world of data. Traditionally, queries against data are expressed as simple strings without type checking at compile time or IntelliSense support. 
1. What is LINQ. 2. Why should we use LINQ and what are the benefits of using LINQ. 3. LINQ Architecture. 4. LINQ Providers. 5. LINQ to SQL Example. What is LINQ. LINQ stands for Language Integrated Query. LINQ enables us to query any type of data store (SQL Server, XML documents, Objects in memory etc). 
Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) is a set of features introduced in Visual Studio 2008 that extends powerful query capabilities to the language syntax of C# and Visual Basic. Provides an entry point for documentation about LINQ to DataSet, LINQ to SQL, and LINQ to Entities. LINQ to DataSet enables you to build richer query capabilities into DataSet by using the same query functionality that is available for other data sources.
And thanks to Amir and darnold's good explaination. Here is another from Microsoft in MSDN library: Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) is a set of features introduced in Visual Studio 2008 that extends powerful query capabilities to the language syntax of C# and Visual Basic. However, LINQ gives C# the ability to generate queries for any LINQ-compatible data source. Furthermore, the syntax used for the query is the same, no matter what data source is used.
Language Integrated Query (LINQ, pronounced link) is a Microsoft .NET Framework component that adds native data querying capabilities to .NET languages, although ports exist for Java, PHP, JavaScript and ActionScript. 
LINQ to SQL is an O/RM (object relational mapping) implementation that ships in the .NET Framework Orcas release, and which allows you to model a relational database using .NET classes. You can then query the database using LINQ, as well as update/insert/delete data from it. 
LINQ stands for Language-Integrated Query and covers a set of features that lets you retrieve information from a data source. In many cases, data is stored in a database that is separate from the application. However, LINQ gives C# the ability to generate queries for any LINQ-compatible data source. Furthermore, the syntax used for the query is the same, no matter what data source is used.