Saffron (pronounced /ˈsaefrən/ ˈsæfrən /or/) ˈsaefrɒn ˈsæfrɒn is a spice derived from the Flower of, crocus sativus commonly known as the. saffron crocus
Commercial saffron comes from the bright red stigmas of the saffron crocus (Crocus sativus) which flowers in the Fall in many different countries, including Greece, India, Iran and Spain. The Crocus sativus stigmas are the female part of the flower.
Saffron comes from the saffron crocus bulb (Crocus sativus), which is an autumn blooming crocus. The spice is actually the red stigmas of this crocus flower.
saffron is a spice to be reckoned with. Saffron, botanical name crocus sativus, is the most expensive spice in the world. Derived from the dried stigmas of the purple saffron crocus, it takes anything from 70,000 to 250,000 flowers to make one pound of saffron.
Saffron (pronounced /ˈsaefrən/, /ˈsæfrən/) (ˈsaefrɒn: زَعْفَرَان) persian زعفران is a spice made from the stigma of the flower of the. Saffron plant the spice is used in cooking as a seasoning and as a. food colouring
Saffron (pronounced /ˈsaefrən/ ˈsæfrən /or/) ˈsaefrɒn ˈsæfrɒn is a spice derived from the Flower of, crocus sativus commonly known as the. Saffron crocus saffron crocus grows–to 20 (30–cm 8) 12 in and bears up to, four flowers each with three vivid, crimson stigmas which are the distal end of. a carpel
The cultivated saffron (saffron crocus C. sativus) flowers in the autumn and comes up every year, so it is known as a perennial plant. It does not grow wild, and is now a triploid form of the eastern Mediterranean plant called Crocus cartwrightianus. It is thought that C. cartwrightianus came from Crete.
Before Growing Saffron Crocus. Saffron comes from the saffron crocus bulb (Crocus sativus), which is an autumn blooming crocus. The spice is actually the red stigmas of this crocus flower. Each flower will only produce three stigmas and each saffron crocus bulb will only produce one flower.
Commercial saffron comes from the bright red stigmas of the saffron crocus (Crocus sativus) which flowers in the Fall in many different countries, including Greece, India, Iran and Spain. The Crocus sativus stigmas are the female part of the flower.