Pre-diabetes is a condition that involves high glucose, or blood sugar, levels that have not yet escalated to the point that would indicate a diabetes diagnosis. Tran fats enhance flavor and preserve foods, but according to the American Heart association, they also increase the risk for heart disease and Type II diabetes. If you are pre-diabetic, avoid margarine, shortening and hydrogenated vegetable oils. Foods that commonly contain trans fats include commercially prepared cookies, pie crust, pizza and other snack foods, as well as fried foods such as doughnuts and French frie
Having diabetes or having pre-diabetes does not mean that you can't eat certain foods. The solution isn't avoid foods with sugar in them.. Rather, you need to lose weight if you are overweight, cut back on portion sizes, and plan for those occasions when you eat a small piece of cake or pie. They may be telling you that you have pre-diabetes, when in fact you have actual diabetes. Among those who should be screened for pre-diabetes include overweight adults age 45 and older and those under age 45 who are overweight and who have one or more of the following risk factors: 1  are habitually physically inactive.
22 Foods to Avoid with Diabetes. These top food offenders contain high amounts of fat, sodium, carbs, and calories that may increase your risk of high cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart disease, uncontrolled blood sugar, and weight gain. However, some foods really are best left on the table or in the store. Everyone -- with diabetes or without -- would be wise to avoid or limit the foods on this list because they are high in saturated fat, sodium, calories, or carbs, or might contain trans fats.
Best Answer: You need to eat only low carbohydrate foods or whole foods. You must avoid starches and sugars. That means no bread, bagels, pasta or cake. No sugar sweetened soda or sugary drinks of any kind. If you feel you must have bread go with whole grain bread. That helps keep your insulin resistance low. In many cases pre diabetic means your body is building a resistance to using your natural insulin. If you carry your weight around your middle work on losing some weight and exercise. Fat around the middle increases insulin resistance.
According to Dr. Weil, saturated fats should be avoided as a means of preventing or treating pre-diabetes. Avoid foods such as fatty red meat, processed meats, whole milk, high-fat cheeses, deep-friend foods, ice cream and butter. Tran fats enhance flavor and preserve foods, but according to the American Heart association, they also increase the risk for heart disease and Type II diabetes. If you are pre-diabetic, avoid margarine, shortening and hydrogenated vegetable oils. Foods that commonly contain trans fats include commercially prepared cookies, pie crust, pizza and other snack foods, as well as fried foods such as doughnuts and French fries
Andrew Weil, M.D., a natural health expert, suggests reducing these foods in your diet if you have diabetes or pre-diabetes, as they may cause blood sugar difficulties and offer little nutrient value. Replace refined starches with complex or whole grain carbohydrate equivalents. Tran fats enhance flavor and preserve foods, but according to the American Heart association, they also increase the risk for heart disease and Type II diabetes. If you are pre-diabetic, avoid margarine, shortening and hydrogenated vegetable oils. Foods that commonly contain trans fats include commercially prepared cookies, pie crust, pizza and other snack foods, as well as fried foods such as doughnuts and French frie
People with diabetes should avoid foods that are high in simple sugars or fast acting carbohydrates. Examples of fast acting carbohydrates are glucose, sucrose, and fructose. These are common sweeteners used in candy and desserts, or anything that is naturally sweet. Diabetics should generally avoid any foods high in sugars. This includes processed (bleached) grains, such as white flour and white rice. They should also avoid foods that are … very high in sodium, to avoid water retention.
If you have pre-diabetes, you are at high risk of developing type 2 diabetes and also are at increased risk of developing heart disease. Pre-diabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels are higher than normal, but not high enough to be classified as full-blown diabetes. They may be telling you that you have pre-diabetes, when in fact you have actual diabetes. Among those who should be screened for pre-diabetes include overweight adults age 45 and older and those under age 45 who are overweight and who have one or more of the following risk factors: 1  are habitually physically inactive.