Eye infections and inflammations can cause red eyes, as well as other symptoms such as itching, discharge, pain, and blurred vision. If a contact lens wearer does not keep their lenses clean and disinfected, or wears them for too long, they can experience red eyes. Red eye could be due to an illness, injury, eye infections, or other condition such as allergies. Doctors do not tend to take immediate action when a patient comes in with red eyes. It is a very common condition that is usually caused by something else such as fatigue, substance abuse, allergies, or cold/flu.
Pink eye is a term commonly used to describe red eye and refers to both viral and bacterial infections of the conjunctiva (conjunctivitis). It can also have other causes, such as allergy. Pink eye caused by a virus may involve clear discharge or some amount of pus and mucous discharge. Pink eye caused by bacteria is more common in children than adults and may involve a more continuous and thicker discharge of pus and mucus. 1  Pink eye (conjunctivitis). 
This can sometimes be a medical emergency. One of the most common causes of red eyes are allergens and environmental irritants such as pet dander, pollen, dust, wind, dry air, and sun. People who do not get enough sleep will also experience red eyes. Red eye could be due to an illness, injury, eye infections, or other condition such as allergies. Doctors do not tend to take immediate action when a patient comes in with red eyes. It is a very common condition that is usually caused by something else such as fatigue, substance abuse, allergies, or cold/flu.
Bloodshot eyes describe a condition in which the whites of the eyes appear red. Bloodshot eyes occur when the blood vessels in the sclera (the white of the eye) dilate or swell. A variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions can irritate the blood vessels of the sclera and cause bloodshot eyes. Bloodshot eyes are often due to mild conditions, such as eye fatigue, dehydration, and overuse of contact lenses. They can also be due to infections and allergic reactions. In some cases, a bloodshot or red eye or eyes can indicate an emergent condition that can lead to loss of sight, such as acute glaucoma or an eye injury. Bloodshot eyes can begin suddenly and disappear quickly, such as when you have a mild allergic reaction to animal dander or dust. Bloodshot eyes can also develop with time and occur along with additional symptoms, which may be a sign of a more serious condition, such as a corneal ulcer or eye infection.
On this page: Causes of red eyes • Red eye treatment • Tips for preventing red eyes. See also: Broken blood vessel in the eye • All about eye allergies • Answers to reader questions about dry eyes • Relief for dry, irritated eyes. We've all experienced red, bloodshot eyes from time to time, affecting one or both eyes. Red eye is caused by swollen or dilated blood vessels on the sclera, the white outer surface of the eye. Red eyes can be accompanied by eye pain, itching, eye discharge, swollen eyes or visual disturbances such as blurry vision. In other cases, a red eye may cause no irritation at all. Common Causes of Red Eye. Conjunctivitis. Also called  pink eye , conjunctivitis is one of the most common (and contagious) eye infections, particularly among school children. It occurs when the conjunctiva  the thin, normally transparent membrane that covers the sclera and lines the eyelids  becomes infected.
Red eyes can be the result of conditions that cause inflammation, such as scleritis or uveitis. Reds eyes can also result from an eye infection, such as conjunctivitis or herpes simplex. Red eyes can also be a symptom of eye trauma, such as corneal abrasion, foreign body or chemical burns of the eyes. Subconjunctival hemorrhage is another cause of red eyes and is due to eye infection or eye trauma. Red Eyes: Symptoms. Red eyes often occur with other symptoms which vary, depending on the underlying disease, disorder or condition that causes red eyes. Symptoms that accompany red eyes due to scleritis or uveitis include inflammation of the eyes, eye pain and impaired vision.
Treatment of red eyes involves diagnosing and treating the underlying disease, disorder or condition that is causing it. Many conditions and diseases that cause red eyes can be successfully treated and cured. For more information on treatment, refer to treatment of red eyes. ... more ». Red Eyes: Symptoms. Red eyes often occur with other symptoms which vary, depending on the underlying disease, disorder or condition that causes red eyes. Symptoms that accompany red eyes due to scleritis or uveitis include inflammation of the eyes, eye pain and impaired vision.
Conjunctivitis is the most common cause of red eye and is one of the leading indications for antibiotics. 1 Causes of conjunctivitis may be infectious (e.g., viral, bacterial, chlamydial) or noninfectious (e.g., allergies, irritants). Conjunctivitis is the most common cause of red eye. Other common causes include blepharitis, corneal abrasion, foreign body, subconjunctival hemorrhage, keratitis, iritis, glaucoma, chemical burn, and scleritis. Signs and symptoms of red eye include eye discharge, redness, pain, photophobia, itching, and visual changes.
The condition is usually benign and can be managed by primary care physicians. Conjunctivitis is the most common cause of red eye. Other common causes include blepharitis, corneal abrasion, foreign body, subconjunctival hemorrhage, keratitis, iritis, glaucoma, chemical burn, and scleritis. Signs and symptoms of red eye include eye discharge, redness, pain, photophobia, itching, and visual changes.