The knee joint is at the juncture of the femur (your thighbone) and the tibia (the lower leg or shin bone). The femur is attached to the tibia by ligaments.The patella (your kneecap) is at the front of the knee joint. The joint consists of three “compartments” or sections: 1  Medial Compartment (inner half of your knee). 2  Lateral compartment (outer half of your knee). 3  Patellofermoral compartment (behind the knee cap).
Picture of the Knee. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The knee is one of the largest and most complex joints in the body. The knee joins the thigh bone (femur) to the shin bone (tibia). The smaller bone that runs alongside the tibia (fibula) and the kneecap (patella) are the other bones that make the knee joint. Ligaments join the knee bones and provide stability to the knee: 1  The anterior cruciate ligament prevents the femur from sliding backward on the tibia (or the tibia sliding forward on the femur).
In anatomy, a ligament is the fibrous connective tissue that connects bones to other bones and is also known as articular ligament, articular larua, fibrous ligament, or true ligament. Ligament can also refer to: 1  Peritoneal ligament: a fold of peritoneum or other membranes. 
Collateral Ligaments. These are found on the sides of your knee. The medial collateral ligament is on the inside and the lateral collateral ligament is on the outside. They control the sideways motion of your knee and brace it against unusual movement. It is also vital to movement. Your knee ligaments connect your thighbone to your lower leg bones. Knee ligament sprains or tears are a common sports injury. In the past, injuring more than one knee ligament would put an end to future sports activities.
If you have injured one or more of the ligaments in your knee, the symptoms are likely to be similar regardless of the ligament that is injured. The severity of the symptoms depends on the degree of the injury to the ligament. 
Tendons connect the knee bones to the leg muscles that move the knee joint. Ligaments join the knee bones and provide stability to the knee: 1  The anterior cruciate ligament prevents the femur from sliding backward on the tibia (or the tibia sliding forward on the femur).
Cruciate Ligaments. These are found inside your knee joint. They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. It is also vital to movement. Your knee ligaments connect your thighbone to your lower leg bones. Knee ligament sprains or tears are a common sports injury. In the past, injuring more than one knee ligament would put an end to future sports activities.
These injuries are common in soccer players, football players, basketball players, skiers, gymnasts, and other athletes. There are four ligaments in the knee that are prone to injury: 1  Mentioned above, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of the two major ligaments in the knee. Too much stress on these ligaments can cause them to stretch too far -- or even snap. ACL injury and other ligament injuries can be caused by: 1  Twisting your knee with the foot planted. 2  Getting hit o
Collateral Ligaments. These are found on the sides of your knee. The medial collateral ligament is on the inside and the lateral collateral ligament is on the outside. They control the sideways motion of your knee and brace it against unusual movement. They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament runs diagonally in the middle of the knee.
These are found inside your knee joint. They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament runs diagonally in the middle of the knee.