Watermelon fruit is 91% water, contains 6% sugars, and is low in fat (table). The amino acid citrulline is produced in watermelon rind. Watermelon pulp contains carotenoids, including lycopene. 
Here's just a small quote about how much lycopene watermelon contains from the USDA research team : Watermelon is fat free and is a source of vitamins A, B6, C, and thiamin. Studies have shown that a cup and a half of watermelon contains about 9 to 13 milligrams of lycopene. On average, watermelon has about 40 percent more lycopene than raw tomatoes.
Watermelon contains many minerals, especially potassium. Watermelon is the fruit of a vine-like plant and has reddish flesh covered with dark green skin. The flesh of watermelon is usually sweet and saturated with water, hence the name. It contains a variety of vitamins, antioxidants and minerals. Two cups of watermelon flesh contain a little over 30 milligrams of phosphorus, which is essential for the formation of your bones and teeth. It also plays an important role in the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats, as well as the synthesis of protein for the growth, maintenance and repair of your tissues.
Yes, you can grow watermelons from a pot. The trouble with this process is that the watermelon plant grows like a vine. So, make sure your pot is low to the gorund so th … at the watermelon plant can grow around the pot and onto the ground. 
1 Citrulline is an amino acid that is commonly converted by our kidneys and other organ systems into arginine (another amino acid). 2  The flesh of a watermelon contains about 250 millligrams of citrulline per cup. 3  When our body absorbs this citrulline, one of the steps it can take is conversion of citrulline into arginine. Watermelon is not a commonly allergenic food, is not known to contain measurable amounts of oxalates or purines and is also not included in the Environmental Working Group's 2012 report Shopper's Guide to Pesticides as one of the 12 foods most frequently containing pesticide residues.
Watermelon is an unusual fruit source of the carotenoid lycopene and a rich source of phenolic antioxidants. Watermelon contains cucurbitacin E, a triterpene anti-inflammatory phytonutrient, and unusual amounts of the amino acid citrulline. Watermelon is not a commonly allergenic food, is not known to contain measurable amounts of oxalates or purines and is also not included in the Environmental Working Group's 2012 report Shopper's Guide to Pesticides as one of the 12 foods most frequently containing pesticide residues.
Vitamin A. Watermelon is an excellent source of vitamin A with one wedge of the fruit containing 33 percent of the daily value. Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin needed for the formation and maintenance of your mucous membranes, skin and bone. Watermelon contains several vitamins Photo Credit sofiaworld/iStock/Getty Images.
1 Health scientists are becoming more and more interested in the citrulline content of watermelon. 2  Citrulline is an amino acid that is commonly converted by our kidneys and other organ systems into arginine (another amino acid). 3  The flesh of a watermelon contains about 250 millligrams of citrulline per cup. Watermelon is not a commonly allergenic food, is not known to contain measurable amounts of oxalates or purines and is also not included in the Environmental Working Group's 2012 report Shopper's Guide to Pesticides as one of the 12 foods most frequently containing pesticide residues.