Grill or broil halibut steaks approximately 4 minutes per side or until a meat thermometer registers an internal temperature of 140 degrees F (halibut will be slightly opaque in thickest part). Remember the halibut continues to cook after it is removed from the heat source. 
1 Remove pan from heat; add in lemon juice, lemon zest, and herbs; store in the refrigerator until you are ready to bake the fish. 2  Preheat oven to 400°; let fish come to room temperature for about 15 minutes. 3  Melt the garlic butter and pour it over the fish. 4  Bake the fish for 10 minutes, basting once with the sauce. 
1 In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 2  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 3  Season with salt and pepper. 4  Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, until halibut flakes easily when tested with a fork. 5  Drizzle with remaining lemon juice and serve. INSTRUCTIONS: 1  Preheat oven to 400ºF. 2  In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 3  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, until halibut flakes easily when tested with a fork
Baking halibut is probably the easiest way you will find to cook halibut. Pre-oil a casserole dish (oven safe) with olive oil or butter. Seasoned your fish and apply a generous amount of olive oil to the top side or just add a pat of butter to the top. In a preheated 400 degree oven, bake for approximately 15 minutes. Pre heat your oven to 350 degrees. In a saute sauté pan that is oven safe heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil over medium high, heat sear steaks or fillets for about 3 minutes on each. Side transfer the pan to the oven and finish cooking for about another 5 to 6. minutes
1 Put the fish in a baking dish, cover about 2/3 with milk, a small pat of butter on each piece, and bake for 1 1/2 hour at 350°F. 2  Cook as above, but cover with a can of Mushroom Soup. 3  This is the first way I ever baked halibut and it isn't bad and it is certainly easy. 4  As above, but cover 2/3 with chicken broth. Halibut is a wonderful fish to cook. It has little oil and no overpowering flavor of its own. It takes sauces wonderfully, and the only thing you have to watch out for is to not dry it out during the cooking. The following can apply to either steaks (bone-in) or fillets (boneless strips of fish).
From my experience, by lowering the temperature to 325°F or so, this increases the cooking time to 1 1/2 hours. 1  Put the fish in a baking dish, cover about 2/3 with milk, a small pat of butter on each piece, and bake for 1 1/2 hour at 350°F. 2  Cook as above, but cover with a can of Mushroom Soup. Halibut is a wonderful fish to cook. It has little oil and no overpowering flavor of its own. It takes sauces wonderfully, and the only thing you have to watch out for is to not dry it out during the cooking. The following can apply to either steaks (bone-in) or fillets (boneless strips of fish).
You can cook the Halibut all the way in the pan or you can partial cook it and finish it off in the oven. For complete searing in the pan. Use a non stick skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil over a medium high heat. Add the Halibut and sear for 5 to 7 minutes. Flip the fish and add 2 tablespoons of butter, spoon the butter over the Halibut as they cook for another 5 to 7 minutes. Your time might very depending on the thickness of the steak or fillet. Pan searing and finish cooking in the oven. Pre heat your oven to 350 degrees. In a saute sauté pan that is oven safe heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil over medium high, heat sear steaks or fillets for about 3 minutes on each. Side transfer the pan to the oven and finish cooking for about another 5 to 6. minutes
Halibut get quite large and you can have an 8 to 10 pound boneless roast if you like! In all cases, the fish is done when you can flake it with a fork. For any kind of cooking of non-oily fish, a rule of thumb is ten minutes per inch of thickness in a hot oven (this means 400°F or more). Halibut is a wonderful fish to cook. It has little oil and no overpowering flavor of its own. It takes sauces wonderfully, and the only thing you have to watch out for is to not dry it out during the cooking. The following can apply to either steaks (bone-in) or fillets (boneless strips of fish).
1 Preheat oven to 400ºF. 2  In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 3  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, until halibut flakes easily when tested with a fork. INSTRUCTIONS: 1  Preheat oven to 400ºF. 2  In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 3  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 4  Season with salt and pepper.