At that point, you can't contribute anything; instead, you're required to make mandatory annual minimum withdrawals. If you have a Roth IRA, however---in which you pay income tax on contributions but not on withdrawals---you can continue making contributions as long as you live. 
Roth IRA contributions are limited by income level. In general, you can contribute to a Roth IRA if you have taxable income and your modified adjusted gross income is either: 
If you are … under 50 and contribute $2,000 to your Roth IRA then you can only contribute $3,000 to your Traditional IRA. For a traditional IRA, you no longer can contribute after the age of 70 1/2 (RMD checks in). For Roth, you can contribute forever since no RMD are taken from this type of IRA account. There is a maximum amount you can put in every year into an IRA. As of 2011, it is currently $5000/year for anyone age 49 and below; $6000/year if you are age 50 and above. Contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. When you make withdrawals from your Roth IRA, your withdrawals come out tax-free.
If you are … under 50 and contribute $2,000 to your Roth IRA then you can only contribute $3,000 to your Traditional IRA. For a traditional IRA, you no longer can contribute after the age of 70 1/2 (RMD checks in). For Roth, you can contribute forever since no RMD are taken from this type of IRA account. 
Earned income means money from a job; investment income doesn't count. However, if you are retired and your spouse has earned income, your spouse can contribute to his or her IRA, as well as your IRA, which would be a spousal IRA contribution. 1  Share this story. 2  LinkedIn. 3  Delicious. 4  Reddit. 5  Stumbleupon. 6  Email story. 
No. You must have income to open or contribute to a Roth IRA. Furthermore, you may not contribute more than your income in any one year. It is your responsibility to make sure that your contributions are qualified. Your IRA administrator is not responsible for making sure you qualify. Your income must come from an employment such as job or a commision base job, so if you earn no income this year, you can't open or contribute anything. When I do a Roth IRA for someone, the form says I must put in an employment address of the client. Then it ask me if the client is retired or not
Yes, you can contribute to a traditional and/or Roth IRA even if you participate in an employer-sponsored retirement plan (including a SEP or SIMPLE IRA plan). See the discussion of IRA Contribution Limits. For contributions to a traditional IRA, the amount you can deduct may be limited if you or your spouse is covered by a retirement plan at work and your income exceeds certain levels.
You can still make a Roth IRA contribution for 2006 if you earned at least $4,000 in 2006. You just have to make the contribution by the tax filing deadline in April. This is even though you are currently unemployed. Your income must come from an employment such as job or a commision base job, so if you earn no income this year, you can't open or contribute anything. When I do a Roth IRA for someone, the form says I must put in an employment address of the client. Then it ask me if the client is retired or not
You can contribute up to $5,000 to your own Roth IRA (up to $6,000 if you’re 50 or older during the year) and up to $5,000 for your wife (or $6,000 if she’s 50 or older), as long as you earned at least as much for the year as the combined contributions. Without earned income, your wife is not eligible to contribute to a Roth IRA herself (unearned income, from pensions, investments or Social Security, doesn’t count toward eligibility). But because you’re still working, you can contribute to your wife’s IRA on her behalf.