40 min if its a legit mot lots of dealers just put mot on cars and they are not even road worthy so a illegal mot would not take long. bobert1607 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. The official time is 45 minutes. The MOT station can not input the information about the MOT into the DVLA system for 45 minutes after the start.
Remember-the test certificate relates only to the condition of the testable items at the time of the test and should not be regarded as evidence of their condition at any other time; nor should it be accepted as evidence of the general mechanical condition of the vehicle. MOT FAQ's. Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about the MOT test in the UK. If you cannot find what you are looking for on this page use the menu on the left or contact us.
Should the vehicle fail, you will be issued with a VT3O Certificate stating the items causing the failure of the MOT test. Make sure that you are clear as to what rectification is required for a pass to be issued. In certain cases expert or special services may be required regarding emissions or welding. MOT FAQ's. Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about the MOT test in the UK. If you cannot find what you are looking for on this page use the menu on the left or contact us.
Retest Information. If your vehicle fails the MOT test and has to have one or more items repaired, then you will have to bring your vehicle back to an MOT testing station to have a retest or re-examination before an MOT test certificate will be issued. A partial retest is where only the items that you vehicle failed on during the full MOT test are examined. If your vehicle fails on the partial re-test then the vehicle will have to have a full MOT test when you bring it back again and the full fee will be charged.
The MOT will take an hour, but may take longer if we need to carry out any minor repairs. We ask that you arrive at least 5 minutes before your booked time, but you can leave your car with us any time from the moment we open. If you wish to appeal against an MOT failure, ask for a VT17 form at the test centre. You'll receive all or part of your test fee back if your appeal is successful, but you should not have any car repairs carried out in the meantime as this may affect the outcome of your appeal.
On average an MOT test takes between 45 - 60 minutes. It's always best to allow an hour to be sure your car is ready when you go to collect it. Time may vary if repairs are required. Share this: Typically an MOT test will take between 45 and 60 minutes. Here at Halfords Autocentres we have convenient hourly slots for you to choose from
Cars and motorcycles MUST normally pass an MOT test three years from the date of the first registration and every year after that. You MUST NOT drive a vehicle without an MOT certificate, when it should have one. Driving an unroadworthy vehicle may invalidate your insurance. Exceptionally, you may drive to a pre-arranged test appointment or to a garage for repairs required for the test.
Best Answer: About an hour with a 2 man MOT Test Bay, however many MOT Test Stations have the new-ATL-Automated Test Lanes which can complete a full mot test in 40 minutes. So I guess it all depends Mot Equipment they are using! Source(s): http://www.vosa.gov.uk http://www.bhtools.co.uk. I took mine in for a MOT test and it took a couple of hours i just waited. It shouldn't take long get a coffee and a Cookie and it will be back with you in no time Best Wishes Natalie. Angela · 6 years ago. Thumbs up