A nucleus of a cell contains chromosomes that carry genetic  information. Chromosomes are made from long, coiled molecules of  DNA. A gene is a shorter region of DNA that ca … rries the genetic  code for a particular characteristic. Answered. Information on the DNA is transcribed into RNA, and this RNA is processed and exported from the nucleus into the cytoplasm, where it is translated by ribosomes. 7 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. Mutations result from damage to DNA which is not repaired, errors in the process of replication, or from the insertion or deletion of segments of DNA by mobile genetic elements. Mutations may or may not produce discernible changes in the observable characteristics (phenotype) of an organism.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
Changes in the DNA sequence that affect genetic information are known as a. replications c. transformations b. mutations d. prokaryotes. Changes in the DNA sequence that affect genetic information are known as b. mutations. The wings of a bat and the wings of a bird are an example of convergent evolution. True or False? User: To make a scale drawing of a basketball court, which of the following scales would be most useful? a. 1 cm = 1 m c. 1 m = 1 km b. 1 km = 1 m d. 1 m = 1 cm.
Insertions and deletions are two other types of mutations that can affect cells at the gene level. An insertion mutation occurs when an extra nucleotide is added to the DNA strand during replication. Aa Aa Aa. DNA is a dynamic and adaptable molecule. As such, the nucleotide sequences found within it are subject to change as the result of a phenomenon called mutation. Depending on how a particular mutation modifies an organism's genetic makeup, it can prove harmless, helpful, or even hurtful.
DNA and Mutations. by the Understanding Evolution team. A mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life
A nucleus of a cell contains chromosomes that carry genetic  information. Chromosomes are made from long, coiled molecules of  DNA. A gene is a shorter region of DNA that ca … rries the genetic  code for a particular characteristic. 1 What is a Genetic Mutation? 2  When the [DNA](http://biology.answers.com/genetics/dna-the-genetic-code-of-life) code changes, scientists call those changes genetic mutations.
The molecular basis for genes is deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). DNA is composed of a chain of nucleotides, of which there are four types: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and thymine (T). Genetic information exists in the sequence of these nucleotides, and genes exist as stretches of sequence along the DNA chain. The modern working definition of a gene is a portion (or sequence) of DNA that codes for a known cellular function or process (e.g. the function make melanin molecules). A single 'gene' is most similar to a single 'word' in the English language.
Sex! No, really it's true. When you get one chromosome from Mom and one from Dad, then there is a new combination of DNA that has never existed before. When those cells undergo meiosis and produce new sex cells, then there is crossing over of the DNA strands and newer and different combination are made. So, when those first chromosomes got together there was already a heritable change in the DNA sequence that affected the genetic information.
The building blocks of DNA are called bases. The sequence of the bases determines the gene and its function. Mutations involve changes in the arrangement of the bases that make up a gene. Even a change in just one base among the thousands of bases that make up a gene can have a major effect.