Stains that are lighter in color to begin with will require more coats to achieve darker floor colors. If you intend to apply two coats of stain to your floor, and you want a dark colored floor, then you may need to apply more than two coats of stain. Gel stain will also affect the depth of color on your floor.
2. Before applying stain to your wood floor, you need to know what species it is. Floors made of maple, birch, and coniferous woods (especially pine or fir) are all very difficult to stain evenly. Maple and birch are tight-grained woods with very small pores, and the density of the pore wall fibers varies drastically.
Wet it (not soaked) and let it dry. Then apply the stain and let it sit 10 minutes or so and wipe off the excess. This process opens or pops the grain to allow deeper penetration of the stain. You just have to be careful not to scuff your feet on the floor after popping or you might close the grain and get a light spot.
Dip rag or sponge into stain and apply stain to floor, going with the grain rather than against. Work from one side of the room to the other, frequently wringing out rag or sponge so coverage is even and stain doesn't pool on floor.
For example, two coats of stain that is left on the floor for 30 minutes each will cause the floor to be much darker than two coats of stain that are left on the floor for 30 seconds each. Another factor that will affect the tones and shades of your stained hardwood floor is the original color and type of stain.
Some wood species are not meant to be stained. Before applying stain to your wood floor, you need to know what species it is. Floors made of maple, birch, and coniferous woods (especially pine or fir) are all very difficult to stain evenly.
A: Typically 24 hours after the last coat is applied your floors should be dry enough to walk on and place furniture on. Even though the floors are dry the finish will still be soft therefore you must wait 10 to 14 days before you place any area rugs down. This will ensure your floor cures properly.
Applying two coats of stain to your hardwood floors will result in darker tones; however, this may be necessary to obtain the stain tones you wish for.