Government Failure. Definition of government failure : This occurs when government intervention in the economy causes an inefficient allocation of resources and a decline in economic welfare. There are various things the government can try and do to overcome government failure. 1  Give performance targets / profit incentives. 2  Competitive tendering – where public sector bodies face competition from the private sector for the right to run a public service.
It can include outcomes that are attributable to the government not diagnosing market failures correctly as well as situations in which the lack of intervention derives from more concrete causes, such as the active influence of organized interest groups that successfully block efforts to correct market failure. [T]he presence of market failure is evidence that there must also be government failure: the failure to correct market failure. The failure of government to intervene is best described as passive government failure.
Understanding “market failure” and the omnipresence of negative externalities can lead us to make the comparison that does matter. Implicit in negative-externality arguments for intervention is the claim that the political process will actually do what economists say it should do. 
Market Failure occurs when there is an inefficient allocation of resources in a free market, this can occur for various reasons. To overcome this market failure, the govt can try and reduce demand by taxing the good. However, this may cause govt failure. Government failure occurs when govt intervention results in a more inefficient allocation of resources. For example, taxes will cause admin costs; the govt may have poor info about how much to tax and demand may be very inelastic. 
In economics, market failure is a situation in which the allocation of goods and services is not efficient. That is, there exists another conceivable outcome where an individual may be made better-off without making someone else worse-off. The existence of a market failure is often the reason that self-regulatory organizations, governments or supra-national institutions intervene in a particular market.
Government failure. Government intervention to resolve market failures can also fail to achieve a socially efficient allocation of resources. Government failure is a situation where government intervention in the economy to correct a market failure creates inefficiency and leads to a misallocation of scarce resources. Excessive bureaucracy is also a potential government failure. This is caused by the public sector when it tries to solve the principal-agent problem. Government must appoint bureaucrats to ensure that its objectives are pursued by the managers of public sector organisations, such as the NHS.
Examples of government failure include: Government can award subsidies to firms, but this may protect inefficient firms from competition and create barriers to entry for new firms because prices are kept ‘artificially’ low. Subsidies, and other assistance, can lead to the problem of moral hazard. Excessive bureaucracy is also a potential government failure. This is caused by the public sector when it tries to solve the principal-agent problem. Government must appoint bureaucrats to ensure that its objectives are pursued by the managers of public sector organisations, such as the NHS.
But either way, if a market failure exists the outcome is not Pareto efficient. Most mainstream economists believe that there are circumstances (like building codes or endangered species) in which it is possible for government or other organizations to improve the inefficient market outcome. The existence of a market failure is often the reason that self-regulatory organizations, governments or supra-national institutions intervene in a particular market.
In the analysis of regulation, government failure (or non-market failure) is imperfection in government performance. The phrase government failure emerged as a term of art in the early 1960s with the rise of intellectual and political criticism of regulation. Some use the phrase passive government failure to describe the government's failure to intervene in a market failure that would result in a socially preferable mix of output. Just as with market failures, there are different kinds of government failures that describe corresponding economic distortions