1 Young, sexually active women with multiple sex partners are at greatest risk for pelvic inflammatory disease. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 3  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse. *Pelvic inflammatory facts medical author: Melissa Conrad Stoeppler, STöPPLER. 1  Md pelvic inflammatory (DISEASE) pid is an infection of a'woman s pelvic organs including the (uterus), Womb fallopian (tubes), tubes, ovaries and. 2  Cervix pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted.  disease
Causes. Pelvic inflammatory disease can be caused by a number of bacteria but are most often caused by gonorrhea or chlamydia infections. These bacteria are usually acquired during unprotected sex
Knowledge center. Pelvic inflammatory disease or PID is a broad term for inflammation of the uterus (womb), fallopian tubes and/or ovaries-the female reproductive organs or the upper genital tract. PID may progress to scar formations with fibrous bands that form between tissues and organs (adhesions). A bacterium called Chlamydia is a common cause, followed by gonorrhea. Pelvic inflammatory disease can lead to complications, including chronic persistent pelvic pain, ectopic pregnancy and infertility.
1 Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 2  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse. 3  Pelvic inflammatory disease is treated with antibiotics. *Pelvic inflammatory facts medical author: Melissa Conrad Stoeppler, STöPPLER. 1  Md pelvic inflammatory (DISEASE) pid is an infection of a'woman s pelvic organs including the (uterus), Womb fallopian (tubes), tubes, ovaries and. 2  Cervix pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted.  disease
In the majority of cases pelvic inflammatory disease is caused by an infection in the vagina or cervix which spreads. PID can refer to bacteria, fungal or parasitic infections-in most cases the infection is bacterial. A bacterium called Chlamydia is a common cause, followed by gonorrhea. Pelvic inflammatory disease can lead to complications, including chronic persistent pelvic pain, ectopic pregnancy and infertility.
If the cervix is exposed to a sexually transmitted disease -- such as gonorrhea and/or chlamydia -- the cervix itself becomes infected and less able to prevent the spread of organisms to the internal organs. PID occurs when the disease-causing organisms travel from the cervix to the upper genital tract. Untreated gonorrhea and chlamydia cause about 90% of all cases of PID. Other causes include abortion, childbirth, and pelvic procedures. The symptoms of PID can vary, but may include the following: 1  Dull pain or tenderness in the stomach or lower abdominal area, or pain in the right upper abdomen. 2  Abnormal vaginal discharge that is yellow or green in color or that has an unusual odor. 3  Painful urination.
The most common symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease include abdominal pain, vaginal discharge, and fever. More severe symptoms may include painful sexual intercourse, painful urination, fatigue, and nausea with or without vomiting. Antibiotic therapy is the treatment for PID and can prevent serious complications. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of the female reproductive organs, including the uterine lining, ovaries, and fallopian tubes. It may produce severe symptoms, including pain and reproductive dysfunction. Pelvic inflammatory disease is a common disease that affects nearly one million women each year.
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is caused by an infection developing in the female upper genital tract. In most cases, the condition is caused by a bacterial infection spreading from the vagina or cervix (the entrance to the womb) into the womb, fallopian tubes and ovaries. 