Erato is a name of ancient Greek origins which means desired or lovely. In Greek mythology, Erato was one of the Muses and the name derived from the same root as Eros the Greek God of love. Roman Historian of the 4th century, Sextus Rufus informs us that anti-Roman sentiment was building in Armenia during the reign of Tigranes IV and Erato. Rufus also emphasizes that the Kingdom of Armenia was very strong during this period.
Tigranes V was accompanied by his maternal grandfather, Archelaus of Cappadocia and the future Roman emperor Tiberius to Armenia, where he was installed as King at Artaxata. Artaxata became Tigranes V's capital. In 6, Tigranes V ruled Armenia as a sole ruler. Roman Historian of the 4th century, Sextus Rufus informs us that anti-Roman sentiment was building in Armenia during the reign of Tigranes IV and Erato. Rufus also emphasizes that the Kingdom of Armenia was very strong during this period.
Following the death of Mithridates II of Parthia in 91 B.C., Tigranes successfully reconquered the “seventy valleys of Armenia” ceded to him just four years earlier, and laid waste to Parthian lands. Tigranes then conquered Osroene (Edessa), Nisibis, Gordyene, Atropatene, and Adiabene. Having reconciled with the Romans, Tigranes became a ‘friend and ally’ of the Romans, with the condition that he give up the territories won through his previous conquests. Tigranes continued to rule over the Kingdom of Armenia until his death in about 55 B.C.
For the modern Ethiopian ethnic group known as Tigrayans, see Tigray-Tigrinya people. Tigranes /ˈtɪɡrəniːz/ (sometimes Tigran or Dikran; Armenian: տիգրան; Ancient Greek: τιγράνης) was the name of a number of historical figures, primarily kings of Armenia. Another Tigranes was a member of the Achaemenid family who, according to Herodotus, commanded the Medes in the army of Xerxes during the invasion of Greece.
Erato was the second child and the known daughter born to Tigranes III by an unnamed mother. Her known sibling was her older paternal half-brother Tigranes IV born to a previous unnamed wife of Tigranes III. Roman Historian of the 4th century, Sextus Rufus informs us that anti-Roman sentiment was building in Armenia during the reign of Tigranes IV and Erato. Rufus also emphasizes that the Kingdom of Armenia was very strong during this period.
Erato also known as Queen Erato (flourished second half of 1st century BC & first half of 1st century, died sometime after 12) was a Princess of the Kingdom of Armenia and member of the Artaxiad Dynasty. She served as a Roman Client Queen of Armenia from 10 BC until 2 BC with her brother-husband King Tigranes IV. Roman Historian of the 4th century, Sextus Rufus informs us that anti-Roman sentiment was building in Armenia during the reign of Tigranes IV and Erato. Rufus also emphasizes that the Kingdom of Armenia was very strong during this period.
Tigranes is the Hellenized form of the name, found in classical sources. Tigran and Dikran are closer to local Armenian usage. The satirist Lucian, in his True History, describes Homer (probably 8th century BC) as a Babylonian called Tigranes, who assumed the name Homer when taken hostage (homeros) by the Greeks. Another Tigranes was a member of the Achaemenid family who, according to Herodotus, commanded the Medes in the army of Xerxes during the invasion of Greece.
Please use this list of Parsi baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Tigran in Parsi origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Higher ratio of birth mark. The ratio of birth mark among babies is very high i.e. one baby born out of every 3 babies have a birth mark present on their body. Baby girls have more probability of birth marks than baby boys.
By far the best known Tigranes is Tigranes the Great, king of Armenia from 95 to 55 BC, who founded a short-lived Armenian empire. His father, who ruled from 115 to 95 BC, was also named Tigranes, as were several later kings of Armenia. There is some lack of consistency in assigning dynastic numbers to these kings. Another Tigranes was a member of the Achaemenid family who, according to Herodotus, commanded the Medes in the army of Xerxes during the invasion of Greece.