KS3 Science-Chemistry Quiz on Atoms, elements, compounds, mixtures, types of rocks, weathering and rock cycle (8E to 8H) multiple choice questions. Which describes the formation of a sedimentary rock? [8h-51]. 1  molten magma or lava from deep in the Earth cooling in air, water or underground, to form new solid rock. 2  weathered and eroded rock is transported by water or wind, and then deposited, buried and compressed in the Earth's crust.
With a liberal definition of rocks, there are some of all kinds: Rock salt is a compound, igneous rocks are usually homogeneous mixtures, gold nuggets are an element, and most … granites are heterogeneous mixtures. It is a pure substance.   2. It can not be separated by physical method.   3. Element loose th … eir properties in a compound.   4. Its composition is fixed through out its mass.   5. It has fixed melting point.    MIXTURE   1.
The three main types of rocks are: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. Rocks: Mineral Mixtures 8th Grade Section 1:Understanding Rock What exactly is rock? A solid mixture of crystals of one or more minerals, that range in all sizes from pebbles to formations that are thousands of kilometers long. The Value of Rock Rock is an important natural resource. Used by early humans to make tools such as hammers, spears, knives, and scrapers.
A sedimentary rock is a rock formed at or near the Earth's surface by the accumulation and lithification of fragments of preexisting rocks or by precipitation from solution at … normal surface temperatures. It is a question of definition. Rocks are defined to be composed of minerals (at least two minerals). Minerals are by definition solid because liquid materials cannot sustain … a regular repeated and symmetrical crystal lattice. Therefore rocks have to be solid.
1..Chemical Compound (NaCl) 2..Chemical Compound (Water, (H2O) in gaseous form) 3..Mixture (Copper Alloys with a number of elements to form various Brasses). 4..Element (Au) (Pure substance..In the Periodic table of Elements). 5..Mixture (Vegetables, meat, meat stock, salt, pepper...etc). 6..Element (S) (Pure substance..In the Periodic table of Elements). 7..Chemical Compound (of Cu and S) 8..Mixture (Igneous rock of Quartz and feldspar (and others). 9..Element (Hg) (Liquid metal at STP, Pure substance ..In the Periodic table of Elements). 10..Chemical Compound (Carbo-hydrates) 11..Element. (Al) (Soft, silvery metal, Pure substance..In the Periodic table of Elements
As a result of these processes, three main types of rock occur: Igneous Rocks-produced by solidification of molten magma from the mantle. Magma that solidifies at the Earth's surface conceives extrusive or volcanic igneous rocks. When magma cools and solidifies beneath the surface of the Earth intrusive or plutonic igneous rocks are formed. Sedimentary Rocks-formed by burial, compression, and chemical modification of deposited weathered rock debris or sediments at the Earth's surface. The most well-known mineral of this group is halite (NaCl) or rock salt. Figure 10d-6: Halite or rock salt. The Oxides are a group of minerals that are compounds of one or more metallic elements combined with oxygen, water, or hydroxyl (OH).
Report Abuse. Rocks are quite complex in their nature. They are not elements, that being that they are not on the periodic table of elements. They are a mixture of certain elements that will bond to form a certain chemical structure to create each type of rock. Ex
Confidence votes 12. Rocks are mixtures because they can be made up of varying compounds and elements in varying amounts, and these substances do not mix chemically, but physically, still retaining there chemical properties. It is a question of definition. Rocks are defined to be composed of minerals (at least two minerals). Minerals are by definition solid because liquid materials cannot sustain … a regular repeated and symmetrical crystal lattice. Therefore rocks have to be solid.