Your support will help us fight to protect diamondback terrapins and other threatened and endangered wildlife. A symbolic adoption helps save real animals in the wild. Length: 7.5 inches (females); 5 inches (males). Weight: 1.5 lbs (females); 0.5 lbs (males). Lifespan: 25-40 years. The diamondback terrapin is light brown, gray or black on top with a bottom shell that ranges from yellow to olive in color.
Diamondback Terrapin. Joel Sartore. With elaborate shell patterns, spotted skin and a mouth that curves upward in an ever-present smile, the diamondback terrapin is the charismatic state reptile of Maryland and can be found in the saltwater marshes of the eastern and southern United States. 
The diamondback terrapin has large webbed feet. The species is sexually dimorphic in that the males grow to approximately 13 cm (5.1 in), while the females grow to an average of around 19 cm (7.5 in), though they are capable of growing larger. The largest female on record was just over 23 cm (9.1 in) in length. Adult diamondback terrapins mate in the early spring, and clutches of 4-22 eggs are laid in sand dunes in the early summer. They hatch in late summer or early fall.
The diamondback terrapin is found along the Atlantic Coast of the eastern United States from Cape Cod to the Florida Keys and west along the Gulf Coast to Texas. The diamondback terrapin is believed to be the only turtle in the world that lives exclusively in brackish water (containing some salt, but not as much as ocean water), habitats like tidal marshes, estuaries and lagoons. Most terrapins hibernate during the winter by burrowing into the mud of marshes.
Our terrapins suffer from a serious loss of habitat. New Jersey has experienced explosive development of its wetlands. When wetlands are filled and covered for the construction of buildings, the terrapins lose their homes. Our community of Somers Point provides a good example of the rapid growth and development in our region. We are losing open space rapidly
Diamondback terrapin populations have declined considerably in many parts of their geographic range and are listed as endangered, threatened or species of special concern in some states. Their skin color is a pale to dark gray or black, flecked with dark spots, blotches or stripes. The hingeless plastron (bottom shell) is yellow to green or black and may be marked with dark blotches. No two individual diamondback terrapins are exactly alike in coloration and pattern.
Distribution and Habitat. Northern diamondback terrapins exclusively inhabit coastal salt marshes, estuaries, tidal creeks and ditches with brackish water (a mix of both salt and freshwater) which is bordered by spartina grass.
Diamondback terrapins live in the very narrow strip of coastal habitats on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States, from as far north as Cape Cod, Massachusetts to the southern tip of Florida and around the Gulf Coast to Texas. Adult diamondback terrapins mate in the early spring, and clutches of 4-22 eggs are laid in sand dunes in the early summer. They hatch in late summer or early fall.
Diamondback Terrapin. Diamondback terrapins are turtles with concentric, diamond-shaped markings and grooves on the scutes (plates) of their carapaces (top shells), which range from medium gray or brown to nearly black. Their skin color is a pale to dark gray or black, flecked with dark spots, blotches or stripes. The hingeless plastron (bottom shell) is yellow to green or black and may be marked with dark blotches. No two individual diamondback terrapins are exactly alike in coloration and pattern.
Conserving terrapins on southern Barnegat Bay and Great Bay through species management, education, and awareness. Northern Diamondback Terrapins (Malaclemys terrapin terrapin) are native to New Jersey and inhabit the many miles of coastal salt marshes and estuaries along the Atlantic Coast and Delaware Bay. They live exclusively in brackish water (a mixture of both salt and fresh water). 