Changi Beach is one of the longest natural beaches in the north-eastern part of Singapore. The northern part of the beach is extended as a spit, a landform of coastal deposition. Spits are accumulations of beach material which result from longshore drift. Longshore drift is a process which causes beach material to move in a down-drift direction, due to waves approaching the beach at an oblique angle. This causes the swash to carry material in the direction of longshore drift, the process continuing such that material is transported along the beach.
As the result longshore drift transports material from the beach to the south of the groyne and is not replenished. This leads to a lack of beach material and therefore protection for the soft, boulder clay cliffs. A panoramic image of Mappleton. Longshore drift is a process responsible for moving significant amounts of sediment along the coast. This usually occurs in one direction as dictated by the prevailing wind. For example the prevailing wind along the Holderness Coast is north-easterly.
Longshore drift. Waves that hit the beach at an angle carry sand and gravel up the beach face at an angle. When the water washes back the sediment is carried straight back down the beach face. Individual particles are moved along the beach in a zig zag pattern. This is called longshore drift. Click to view larger and see the legend
1 transportational & depositional processes and landforms: beach, coastal sediments, longshore drift (beach drift + longshore current) and relation to oblique wave approach, berm, bar, spit, tombolo, bay-mouth bar. 
Description. Longshore drift is the action that transports sediment along the shoreline. When the process is interrupted, sediment in the water is deposited, and can form coastal features like spits, barrier beaches and tombolos. Spits are normally formed at a sharp bend in the coastline, for example at Blakeney and Spurn.
Find animations and images showing a variety of depositional landforms resulting from longshore drift. There are also animations that detail what happens when humans interrupt sediment transport through river and coastal engineering projects. 
Landforms created by longshore drift and coastal deposition. Longshore drift and the formation of spits, barrier beaches and tombolos are explained with case studies. Longshore drift moves material along the coastline and creates spits, such as those found at Blakeney and Spurn. Barrier beaches are formed where spits are joined to the mainland at both ends, trapping water behind in a lagoon; an example of this can be seen at Slapton in Devon. Tombolos are found where barrier beaches form a bridge between an island and the mainland; an example of this is Chesil Beach in Dorset.
In the shore zone, a longshore current runs parallel to the shoreline to also carry sand along the sea bottom (longshore drift). The combination of beach drift and longshore drift is referred to as littoral drift. Littoral Drift How waves move sediment by littoral drift. (a) Swash and backwash move particles along the beach in beach drift. (b) Waves set up a longshore current that move particles by longshore drift.
Longshore drift consists of the transportation of sediments (clay, silt, sand and shingle) along a coast at an angle to the shoreline, which is dependent on prevailing wind direction, swash and backwash. This process occurs in the littoral zone, and in or close to the surf zone. Longshore currents can generate oblique breaking waves which result in longshore transport. Longshore drift can generally be defined in terms of the systems within the surf zone as seen in figure 1.
Longshore drift is influenced by numerous aspects of the coastal system, with processes that occur within the surf zone largely influencing the deposition and erosion of sediments. Longshore currents can generate oblique breaking waves which result in longshore transport. Longshore drift can generally be defined in terms of the systems within the surf zone as seen in figure 1.