Lewd conduct that involves minors is considered a felony offense. When an adult engages in behavior involving a child that is intended to arouse the sexual libido of the aggressor or the child, the offender will most likely be charged with a felony crime of lewd conduct. Lewd conduct is any unlawful act committed by an individual with the purpose of arousing the libido or sexual interest of themselves or the person towards which this action is directed. Lewd conduct criminal offences typically involve pornography, prostitution, or indecent exposure offenses. Lewd behavior, also called lewd and lascivious conduct, is considered a crime by the federal government and all fifty states, though the definition and consequences of lewd conduct can vary by jurisdiction
· just now. Report Abuse. Lewd & lascivious behavior occurs when a person commits an indecent act of sexual gratification with another with knowledge that they are in the presence of others or publicly and indecently exposes genitals or public area, unless the person is a female breast-feeding her child. A person convicted of lewd and lascivious behavior is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. http://www.vanwagnerwood.com/CM/Custom/m... Like Pee Wee Herman got caught in the movie theater doing you know what would be a lewd act.
Lewd conduct. Lewd conduct is any unlawful act committed by an individual with the purpose of arousing the libido or sexual interest of themselves or the person towards which this action is directed. Lewd conduct criminal offences typically involve pornography, prostitution, or indecent exposure offenses. Lewd behavior, also called lewd and lascivious conduct, is considered a crime by the federal government and all fifty states, though the definition and consequences of lewd conduct can vary by jurisdiction
Child Molestation. Child molestation can be considered an act that constitutes a charge of lewd behavior, according to Sex Crime Lawyer. Child molestation is defined as sexually abusing a minor (child under 18), and it is a criminal offense. An offense of this nature might be punishable by either 3, 6 or 8 years in prison. Prostitution can be construed as a lewd behavior, too, indicates Sex Crime Lawyer. It is a crime that is largely defined as a sexual act that is offered, performed or accepted in exchange for a sum of money.
Intent of the Contact. The third element of a lewd and lascivious conduct with a child charge is the intent of the contact. Most states have some requirement that the purpose of the sexual contact be for the sexual gratification of the defendant. This requirement exists to weed out accidental contact, especially those over clothing. The second element of a lewd and lascivious conduct with a child charge is sexual contact. Each state defines what they consider sexual contact, but all require some type of touching.
Lascivious behavior is sexual behavior that is contrary to local moral or other standards of appropriate behavior. It is similar in meaning to  lewd ,  lustful , indecent, lecherous, unchaste, licentious or libidinous. 
Lewd refers to an act that is considered obscene, lascivious, vulgar, or indecent. In its legal application, lewd acts or conduct refer to activities that tend to arouse sexual desire or libido. Activities that are usually associated with the term “lewd” are pornographic activities, prostitution, and exhibitionism.
Lewd and lascivious conduct with a child is more serious than an indecent exposure charge, but less serious than a felony sexual assault of a child. The conduct for a lewdness charge involves more than the mere exposure of genitalia, but tends to fall short of full sexual intercourse. The second element of a lewd and lascivious conduct with a child charge is sexual contact. Each state defines what they consider sexual contact, but all require some type of touching.
Lewd and lascivious conduct with a child is when a defendant engages in sexual contact with a child with the intent to arouse or gratify his sexual desires (or those of a third party). The second element of a lewd and lascivious conduct with a child charge is sexual contact. Each state defines what they consider sexual contact, but all require some type of touching.