The Nucleus. The nucleus is the cell's control center-that is, it contains the genetic information to do and make everything that goes on within a cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a nuclear envelope, which is a double membrane that protects the nucleus by filtering what can leave and enter (like the cell membrane), and separates the nucleus from the rest of the cell.
Components in a nucleus [edit]. The cell nucleus is an important organelle because it is where genes and their controlling factors are formed. In order to do so, it needs the helps of the stored components: 1  Chromosomes: store and organize genes that allow cell division. 2  Nuclear pores: transport regulatory factos and gene products
Abstract. The cell nucleus is a double membrane‐bound organelle that contains the genetic information of the cell packaged in the form of chromatin. The nucleus is a characteristic feature of most eukaryotic cells. 
The Cell Nucleus: The cell nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is the command center of a eukaryotic cell and is commonly the most prominent organelle in a cell. Distinguishing Characteristics: 
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival. The nucleus is particularly important among eukaryotic organelles because it is the location of a cell's DNA. Two other critical organelles are mitochondria and chloroplasts, which play important roles in energy conversion and are thought to have their evolutionary origins as simple single-celled organisms.
Cells & Organelles. The nucleus is the cell's control center-that is, it contains the genetic information to do and make everything that goes on within a cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a nuclear envelope, which is a double membrane that protects the nucleus by filtering what can leave and enter (like the cell membrane), and separates the nucleus from the rest of the cell.
Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA. 
Nucleus. The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all cell activities. All eukaryotic cells have within them a variety of different structures called organelles. Organelles are small and function much like organs function in a large organism. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling
Organelles and Their Functions. The nucleus is arguably the most important organelle in the cell. It is the control center, telling all of the other organelles what to do and when to do it. The nucleus also contains all of the cell's genetic material, or its DNA.