Silica gel beads are found in those little packets accompanying shoes, clothing and some snacks. The packets contain round or granular bits of silica, which is called a gel but is really a solid. The containers typically carry dire Do Not Eat and Keep Away from Children warnings. 
They can absorb some moisture. An ounce of beads will absorb about 2 teaspoons of water and therefore only give off 2 teaspoons of water before having to be recharged. My gel is a potassium-based cross-linked polymer gel that is specifically formulated to last up to 10 years. 
These crystals will dry your flowers in just a few days, or in minutes if you use the microwave method. Mixed in with regular crystals are blue indicator crystals that let you know when it's time to re-heat them all. The Silica Gel Crystals 1.5 lb tub comes with instructions for use. Silica Gel Crystals 1.5 lb Tub: 1  Used for drying flowers in a few days, or in minutes with the microwave method. 2  Blue indicator crystals let you know when it's time to re-heat your crystals. 3  This package contains 1-1/2 lb of silica flower-drying crystals and instructions. 4  Conforms to ASTM D4236. 5  Imported. 
Indicating silica gel is a bead or granule that has been washed with a concentration of cobalt chloride (a heavy metal salt). The cobalt chloride is a deep blue color when dry and turns from blue to pink as it becomes saturated with moisture. 
Nothing. Silica gel is a form of the naturally occurring mineral silicon dioxide, better known in its granular form as sand or in crystals as quartz. Its most notable trait is its porousness, which allows it to absorb up to 40 percent of its weight in water.
Silica gel is a granular, vitreous, porous form of silicon dioxide made synthetically from sodium silicate. Silica gel is tough and hard; it is more solid than common household gels like gelatin or agar. It is a naturally occurring mineral that is purified and processed into either granular or beaded form. As a desiccant, it has an average pore size of 2.4 nanometers and has a strong affinity for water molecules. Silica gel is most commonly encountered in everyday life as beads in a small (typically 2 x 3 cm) paper packet.
Silica gel is nearly harmless, which is why you find it in food products. Silica, or silicon dioxide (SiO2), is the same material found in quartz. The gel form contains millions of tiny pores that can adsorb and hold moisture. Silica gel is essentially porous sand. Silica gel can adsorb about 40 percent of its weight in moisture and can take the relative humidity in a closed container down to about 40 percent. Once saturated, you can drive the moisture off and reuse silica gel by heating it above 300 degrees F (150 C). 
Silica gel packets. If there's one thing most people know about silica gel, the unseen substance that inhabits those little white packets inserted in new shoe boxes, purses, and Asian snack foods, it's that you're not supposed to eat it. Invariably, the ominous warning do not eat is emblazoned across the packet. Silica gel is a form of the naturally occurring mineral silicon dioxide, better known in its granular form as sand or in crystals as quartz. Its most notable trait is its porousness, which allows it to absorb up to 40 percent of its weight in water.
Silica gel is the granular and porous from silicon dioxide which is made from sodium silicate. The granular foam of silica gel is hard and solid, available in blue and white color for many moisture and water drying industrial applications. Sorbead India is the manufacturer of silica gel blue and white crystals to get the best moisture adsorption results. Get silica gel crystals with free samples. Specifications: 
In this form, it is used as a desiccant to control local humidity to avoid spoilage or degradation of some goods. Because silica gel can have added chemical indicators (see below) and adsorbs moisture very well, silica gel packets usually bear warnings for the user not to eat the contents. As a desiccant, it has an average pore size of 2.4 nanometers and has a strong affinity for water molecules. Silica gel is most commonly encountered in everyday life as beads in a small (typically 2 x 3 cm) paper packet.