The American chestnut (Castanea dentata) was one of the largest growing forest trees in eastern North America. It was important for timber as well as nuts for human use as well as wildlife. A deadly fungus disease, introduced from the Orient effectively wiped out this chestnut in the first half of the 20th century. 
Washington Chestnut Company has been farming in Everson, WA for over 20 years. Chestnuts and chestnut trees are our only commercial products, and our core expertise. We chose chestnut trees because of their low impact on the soils as compared to annual crops. Our passion is producing healthy foods with a positive impact on the environment. Planted in 1999, Allen Creek Farm produces over 10,000 lbs of chestnuts each year for shipment to customers throughout the United States. In addition to fresh chestnuts, dried chestnuts, chestnut flour and a delicious pancake mix are also produced in their licensed commercial kitchen.
The chestnut group is a genus (Castanea) of eight or nine species of deciduous trees and shrubs in the beech family Fagaceae, native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere. 1 European species sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa) (also called Spanish chestnut in the US) is the only European species of chestnut, though was successfully introduced to the Himalayas and other temperate parts of Asia. 2  Unrelated, but externally similar species of horse chestnut are abundant around Europe.
Edible Chestnuts mostly come from the Castanea Chestnut tree. They are not related to horse Chestnuts or water Chestnuts. In English, this tree is often referred to as the Spanish Chestnut tree. The North American tree that produces edible Chestnuts is sometimes referred to as the Sweet Chestnut tree. Two types of Chestnuts come from the European Castanea Chestnut tree. The same tree will produce both types of Chestnuts, at the same time. We don't really have words that make the distinction in English, so we must rely on French words.
There is no organized commercial chestnut industry in the United States or Canada, although these two countries are capable of producing chestnuts. Present acreage of chestnuts in the U.S. is likely less than 1000 but growing. Most of that acreage is in California, the Pacific Northwest, and Michigan. Even pecan production must be limited to the extreme south. However, based on the trials of small plantings and solitary trees and cultivars arising from those trials, filberts, chestnuts, and hardy English walnuts, with all their flaws, are the most likely candidates for commercial production Americas heartland.
Blight resistant varieties of Chinese chestnut (Castanea mollissima) are a viable alternative for commercial chestnut production.Chestnuts are low in fat compared with other nuts and are receiving attention from the health food industry. 
Chestnut trees are of moderate growth rate (for the Chinese chestnut tree) to fast-growing for American and European species. Their mature heights vary from the smallest species of chinkapins, often shrubby, to the giant of past American forests, C. dentata that could reach 60 m. 1 European species sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa) (also called Spanish chestnut in the US) is the only European species of chestnut, though was successfully introduced to the Himalayas and other temperate parts of Asia. 2  Unrelated, but externally similar species of horse chestnut are abundant around Europe.
Planting and growing chestnut trees is a rewarding challenge. As with growing anything, there are some tips and tricks to growing chestnut trees. The goal of the Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Chestnut Foundation (PA-TACF) is to restore the American chestnut (Castanea dentata) to the forests of the mid-Atlantic. To do this, we must plant a lot of trees!
Whether you want just a few chestnut trees for your backyard or are planning to plant a commercial orchard we have what you need. We sell several types and sizes of chestnut seedlings and can assist you in choosing trees based on your particular goals-chestnuts for eating, for wildlife, for timber, etc. 