The non-poisonous snake is the toj, or warning. The poisonous snake is the kotzij, the execution of justice. The significance of the serpent in Mayan culture, however, is broader still than just a symbol of justice. Among other things, the serpent signifies respect, order, reflection, meditation, authority and death.
The serpent symbolizes a number of things in mythology. Typically, however, serpents represent the expression of both good and evil. Often serpents were associated with fertil … ity, medicine, vengeance and or vindictiveness.
Western Dragons. Dragons have a rich heritage in the mythology and symbolism of Western culture. estern dragons have traditionally been a symbol of evil. A typical Western dragon can fly and breathe fire. Many legends describe dragons as greedy, keeping hordes of gold and other precious treasure
The culture of Western Europe is described as Western Culture. It is regarded as a highly modernized and developed culture, with much freedom per average citizen. Western cult … ure can be found in Western Europe, Northern America, Israel, Australia, New Zealand, and even Japan. Answers Publisher. Typically, however, serpents represent the expression of both good and evil. Often serpents were associated with fertil … ity, medicine, vengeance and or vindictiveness.
It symbolises evil or temptation, and is based on the Bible story of the snake in the garden of eden tempting Eve with an apple. Snakes were dangerous creatures to early man, because of their deadly bite, the speed at which they attack and the fact that they hide in cool dark places. Typically, however, serpents represent the expression of both good and evil. Often serpents were associated with fertil … ity, medicine, vengeance and or vindictiveness.
Answers. Best Answer: Throughout time and cultures the snake has often represented power or sexual energies. Many ancient cultures attributed the snake to magic and other now occult things. The idea that snakes are vile evil creatures is a western tradition brought about by the rise of Christianity. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). Snakes in Western culture are a symbol of sinfulness, deceit, and just general evil. The reason for this probably goes back at least to the story of Adam and Eve. In that, the serpent lures Eve into sin with his deceit. So the Judeo-Christian tradition starts with a snake causing the first sin to happen. The snake is also connected with sexual sin in particular. This is partly because the sin of Adam and Eve is often seen as being connected with sex. It's probably also connected to the shape of the snake and the sensuality of the way it moves. At any rate, snakes are definitely connected with deceit and sin in our cultur
The serpent, or snake, is one of the oldest and most widespread mythological symbols. The word is derived from Latin serpens, a crawling animal or snake. Snakes have been associated with some of the oldest rituals known to humankind and represent dual expression of good and evil. Historically, serpents and snakes represent fertility or a creative life force. As snakes shed their skin through sloughing, they are symbols of rebirth, transformation, immortality, and healing. The ouroboros is a symbol of eternity and continual renewal of life.