Genetically modified organisms (GMOs), also known as genetically modified or engineered foods, are created by forcing a piece of DNA from a totally different species, such as bacteria or viruses, into the DNA of a plant or animal. The biggest fear of these companies is that once GMOs are labeled, we won't want to eat them anymore. And that may happen, just like it did when we found out there was pink slime in our hamburgers! Our country is based on a free market economy.
Most soybeans, corn, canola, cotton, sugar beets, Hawaiian papaya, some zucchini and yellow squash, and alfalfa are genetically modified. Products such as oil, high fructose corn syrup, and sugar are created from these crops and added to processed foods. The biggest fear of these companies is that once GMOs are labeled, we won't want to eat them anymore. And that may happen, just like it did when we found out there was pink slime in our hamburgers! Our country is based on a free market economy.
Since they were first commercially grown in the mid-1990s, genetically engineered (GE) crops have expanded across the globe, offering farmers the advantages of genetically enhanced resistance to drought, herbicides, and insects. In Europe, six nations (Austria, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, and Luxembourg) have enacted bans on the cultivation and import of GE products, 4 and nearly 50 nations worldwide require that all GE foods be labeled as such. 5.
The FDA has declared that genetically modified foods or food ingredients need not be labeled. Why not? The FDA holds that genetically modified foods (GM-foods) are essentially the same as traditional foods  there is substantial equivalence, in the language of food scientists. Food labels also tell you something about the way a food has been processed. If the pasta sauce you buy has been heated (pasteurized) so that it will keep longer, it cannot be labeled fresh, since the label fresh indicates that a food has not
GMO Foods Should be Labeled. We have the Right to Know What is in Our Food. One of the most dangerous and least understood experiments with human health the world has ever known is currently underway without your consent—in your household and households across the nation, indeed throughout our entire planet. In contrast, GMO labeling should be required on all food packaging. GMO Labeling Is Key to Our Right to Know! Few choices in our daily lives are as important as the food choices we make for ourselves and our families.
There have been NO long-term studies conducted on the safety of genetically engineered foods on humans. The issue of GM food safety was first discussed at a meeting of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO) and biotech representatives in 1990. Much of the World Already Requires Labeling of Genetically Engineered Foods. 64 countries with over 40% of the world’s population already label genetically engineered foods, including the entire European Union. China labels genetically engineered foods. The same companies that fight GMO labeling in the US reformulate or label GMOs in the foods they sell overseas
Labeling the food as genetically modified would often be perceived as a warning. Food manufacturers have often avoided labeling GMOs in the past because they’ve been afraid of consumer rejection. Many consumers would see a GMO label as a warning to avoid that food product. 
* 86% of Americans want labels on genetically engineered foods (International Communications Research, March 2000). * 81% of Americans think the government should require genetically engineered food products to be labeled. 89% of Americans think the government should require pre-market safety testing of genetically engineered foods before they are marketed, as with any food additive. (MSNBC Live Vote Results, January 2000). * Almost 70% of Americans think the U.S. government should require more extensive labeling of ingredients in genetically engineered food. (Edelman Public Relations Worldwide in Bloomberg News, September 1999). * 81% of American consumers believe GE food should
But that’s changing—and a ballot question this fall in California has the potential to radically alter the GE landscape throughout the rest of the United States. On 6 November 2012 California voters will decide whether foods containing genetically modified organisms (GMOs) must be labeled. In Europe, six nations (Austria, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, and Luxembourg) have enacted bans on the cultivation and import of GE products, 4 and nearly 50 nations worldwide require that all GE foods be labeled as such. 5.