Rebates: Customer cash rebates reduce the purchase price of the car. But Magyar says most states charge sales tax on the full purchase amount before the customer cash rebate is applied. For a $25,000 car with a $500 rebate that reduces the sale price to $24,500, you'll pay tax on $25,000. Usually, the more expensive the car is, the higher the registry fees. Sales Tax: Sales tax on a new car amounts to more than most people expect. For example, at 8 percent, sales tax on a $20,000 car will cost you $1,600.
Even if you bought the car in another state several years ago and paid sales tax there, you may have to pay some tax in your new state. Some states won't charge sales tax on a used car bought out of state but will impose use or excise taxes.he only way to know for sure what your sales tax will be on a used car you buy in another state is to ask ahead of time. If you buy the car in a neighboring state, the dealer should know the rules. Otherwise, consult the motor vehicle department in the state where you live before you buy.
The tax imposed when a vehicle is sold or transferred also was changed. For new vehicles, the tax will be 3.25% of the actual sales price. For used vehicles, the excise tax will be $20 for the first $1,000 for FY 01, plus 3.25% of the remainder of the actual sales price. The $1,000 figure is increased to $1,250 for FY 02 and to $1,500 for FY 03 and thereafter.
Yes, in the state you title the car in which in your case is NH. No, this is incorrect. Under MA law, you must pay 6.25 percent sales and use tax in MA regardless of where yo … u plan to register the vehicle. You have 20 days in which to file the form and pay the tax if you're registering it anywhere other than in MA. Failing to pay the sales and use tax on a MA purchase would be a criminal act.
Taxpayers pay an excise tax of 3.25 percent of the price when they buy a new vehicle and a lower tax rate on used vehicles (depending on the sales price). There is also an annual registration fee of $15 to $85 depending on the age of the vehicle. Motor vehicle taxes in Oklahoma are both selective sales taxes on purchase of vehicles and ongoing taxes on wealth, the value of the vehicles. This is the largest of Oklahoma’s many selective sales taxes in terms of revenue generated.
The excise tax for new cars is 3.25%, and for used cars, the tax is $20.00 for the first $1500.00 and 3.25% on the remainder of the sale price. Typically the tax is determined by the purchase price of the vehicle given that the sale price falls within 20% of the average retail value of the car, regardless of condition. Whether you live in Tulsa, Broken Bow or Oklahoma City, residents are required to pay Oklahoma car tax when purchasing a vehicle.
If there is a Y in the Trade-In Sales Tax column of your state, you are only taxed on the difference between the new car and your trade-in. So, if your new car costs $25,000 and you are getting $10,000 for your trade-in, you will only be taxed on the difference, or $15,000. Usually, the more expensive the car is, the higher the registry fees. Sales Tax: Sales tax on a new car amounts to more than most people expect. For example, at 8 percent, sales tax on a $20,000 car will cost you $1,600.
If sales tax in your state is 10 percent, this will save you $1,000. If there is an N in the column, it means that you will pay tax on the full amount of your new car purchase, and the trade-in has no bearing on the sales tax you are charged.sually, the more expensive the car is, the higher the registry fees. Sales Tax: Sales tax on a new car amounts to more than most people expect. For example, at 8 percent, sales tax on a $20,000 car will cost you $1,600.
Pay Where You Buy. In most cases, you pay sales tax on the car in the state in which you bought it, but not always. If you live in New Jersey and buy a car in New York, for instance, you won't pay New York sales tax. Some states require you to present proof of sales tax payment in another state. The only way to know for sure what your sales tax will be on a used car you buy in another state is to ask ahead of time. If you buy the car in a neighboring state, the dealer should know the rules. Otherwise, consult the motor vehicle department in the state where you live before you buy.