ACH is a rapidly growing alternative to processing credit cards and handles billions of payments annually. ACH payments are payments that are processed using a customer’s bank account and routing information. We developed our system technology beginning in 2001 to include our current ACH processing. The following briefly describes ACH capabilities available through our system today!
DEFINITION of 'Automated Clearing House-ACH'. An electronic funds-transfer system run by the National Automated Clearing House Association. This payment system deals with payroll, direct deposit, tax refunds, consumer bills, tax payments and many more payment services. Next Up
US Federal Reserve banks handle most ACH transactions. An ACH is an electronic transfer of money from one's bank account to pay a business. ACH payments are frequently used by employers to deposit all employees' pay directly into their checking accounts. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow
Datto. Automated Clearing House (ACH) is a secure payment transfer system that connects all U.S. financial institutions. The ACH network acts as the central clearing facility for all Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) transactions that occur nationwide, representing a crucial link in the national banking system. 
ACH Payments. Handle your business payables efficiently with Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments services from Chase. It’s a secure, fast and convenient way to pay your vendors, schedule cash disbursements and even pay individuals through Direct Deposit. 1  Add payees one at a time or upload a list of payees. 
The Payflow ACH (Automated Clearing House) Payment Service enables you to electronically collect payments from your customers for either single-entry or recurring payments by directly debiting your customer's checking or saving accounts. 
An ACH is an electronic fund transfer made between banks and credit unions across what is called the Automated Clearing House network. ACH is used for all kinds of fund transfer transactions, including direct deposit of paychecks and monthly debits for routine payments. Merchants often enable consumers to pay bills via ACH by providing an account number and bank routing number.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic network for financial transactions in the United States. ACH processes large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches. ACH credit transfers include direct deposit, payroll and vendor payments. The Federal Reserve Banks, through the FedACH system, are collectively the nation's largest ACH operator. In 2005, they processed 60% of commercial interbank ACH transactions; the remaining 40% was processed by the Electronic Payments Network (EPN), the United States' only private-sector
Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments are an electronic funds transfer from one bank account to another. ACH payments have been around for over forty years, and were developed with the intention of being faster, safer, and more efficient than the use of paper checks to transfer funds. Distinguish ACH credit payments from ACH debit payments. There are actually two forms of ACH payment you can make. You may want to think of them as a “push” and a “pull” payment method, respectively. 1  An ACH credit payment is the form most common to online bill paying through your bank.