Hemp is a variety of cannabis that is grown for the fiber and seeds. The fiber and seeds are incredible valuable and is why hemp is often called a “cash crop”. Hemp is a very hearty plant and grows very quickly in very diverse soil conditions. 
The difference is in its use. Hemp and Marijuana both come from the same plant-Cannabis Sativa L. The term 'Hemp' commonly refers to the industrial/commercial use of the cannabis stalk and seed for textiles, foods, papers, body care products, detergents, plastics and building materials.
Hemp Seeds are a gift of nature. They are the most nutritious seed in the world. Hemp Seeds are a complete protein. They have the most concentrated balance of proteins, essential fats, vitamins and enzymes combined with a relative absence of sugar, starches and saturated fats. Hemp Seeds are one of nature's perfect foods-a Super Foo
\r\n\t Hemp seed may be one of nature's most perfect foods. Considered a complete protein, hemp seed delivers 5 grams of protein in a 2 Tbsp serving, making them a great addition to vegan and vegetarian diets. Hemp is truly a super food providing a perfect balance of omega-3 and omega-6 essential fatty acids in each serving.
Hemp seeds come from the same hemp plant renowned for its durable fiber. The seeds of the plant are edible (known as hemp seeds, or hemp nuts) and are used in a growing number of products today. See also: 1  Cooking with hemp seeds: Hemp seed recipes to try. 2  A complete list of hemp food recipes: Hemp oil, hemp seeds, hemp powder and more. Hemp seeds are being used in many packaged products, usually found in health food stores. Some of these products, such as hemp milk and ground hemp flour, are relatively simple to make at home from the seeds.
Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. Seed hemp is refined into products such as hemp seed, foods hemp, oil, wax, resin, rope, cloth, pulp, paper and. fuel Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. seed
Hemp seeds are produced from the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa L. While hemp is commonly confused with marijuana, as it belongs to the same family, the two plants are quite different. Most notably is the level of THC, or delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. Hemp seeds are easily digested by the body and is one of the most nutritious foods available in nature. They contain high amounts of essential fatty acids, essential amino acids and proteins. Hemp seeds are such foods which can sustain our dietary needs, even if you don't consume any other healthy food.
Hemp is refined into products such as hemp seed foods, hemp oil, wax, resin, rope, cloth, pulp, paper, and fuel. Other variants of the herb Cannabis are widely used as a drug, commonly known as marijuana. Hemp (from Old English haenep) hænep is a commonly used term for-high growing varieties of The cannabis plant and its, products which include, fiber, oil and. seed
Hemp is often confused with marijuana, but it is a different plant from the same species and it doesn't have marijuana's psychoactive effects. You can buy hemp seeds in their whole form or hulled and eat them raw, roasted or toasted. Add them to granola, trail mix, yogurt, cereal or oatmeal, or use hemp flour for baking. Hemp seeds are very versatile and can be used to make dairy product substitutes, such as hemp seed milk, cheese and ice cream.