A vaginal yeast infection is an infection of the vagina that causes itching and burning of the vulva, the area around the vagina. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of the fungus Candida. Vaginal yeast infection. Most women will get a vaginal yeast infection at some point in their life. Symptoms of vaginal yeast infections include burning, itching, and thick, white discharge. Yeast infections are easy to treat, but it is important to see your doctor or nurse if you think you have an
Cats don’t often get ear infections, but when they do, the cause can be complex. If your vet has ruled out ear mites -- the culprit in about half of all feline ear infections -- she’ll have to do some sleuthing to figure out what's causing your cat's outer or middle ear infection. 
Causes. The fungus candida causes a vaginal yeast infection. Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Lactobacillus bacteria produce acid, which prevents yeast overgrowth. That balance can be disrupted and lead to a yeast infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes. 4  Impaired immune system.
1 Diet The simplest ear yeast infection remedy is to have a regulated diet. 2  Include calcium and Vitamin C in your diet. 3  These are known to boost immunity and also work as a natural antibiotic, reducing inflammation and infection. Home Remedies for Ear Yeast Infection. A yeast infection is caused by the fungi Candida Albicans. An ear yeast infection results in the inflammation of the outer ear and mainly affects kids, swimmers and people wearing hearing aids.
Apart from consulting a doctor, there are a number of ear yeast infection remedies that you can try. These include: 1  Diet The simplest ear yeast infection remedy is to have a regulated diet. 2  Include calcium and Vitamin C in your diet. 3  These are known to boost immunity and also work as a natural antibiotic, reducing inflammation and infection. Home Remedies for Ear Yeast Infection. A yeast infection is caused by the fungi Candida Albicans. An ear yeast infection results in the inflammation of the outer ear and mainly affects kids, swimmers and people wearing hearing aids.
Everyone knows that you can get yeast infections in the genital area and this does seem to be the most common place to get them, but people don't often realize that you can also get a yeast infection in the ear. Also, if you leave the yeast infection in the ear for too long, it will be much more difficult to fight off as the infection becomes more resistant to treatment over time, so a quick cure is imperative-don't waste time.
A dog's outer ear extends from the outside of the earlobe to the ear drum. An infection in this part of the ear is called otitis externa. An infection in the middle ear -- otitis media-typically develops in association with an outer ear infection. Then once the middle ear is infected, the infection can spread to the inner ear, where it will affect the dog's sense of balance and position. An inner ear infection can also cause deafness. Catching and treating an infection early, while it's still in the outer ear, will help prevent more serious middle and inner ear infections. Yeast infections can also show up elsewhere on your dog’s skin. When one does, it causes the skin to become scabby, reddened, or crusty. 1 | 2. Continue reading below...
Under normal conditions, your cat will have yeast in her ears, and this is completely normal. However, several factors can contribute to feline ear infections that are caused by yeast. These include: 1  excessive moisture that becomes trapped in the middle or inner ear. 2  food allergies. 3  hormonal imbalances. How Yeast Infections of the Ear Are Treated. To diagnose the cause of your cat’s ear infection, your veterinarian will collect and analyze samples of ear wax and discharge. Once the cause is identified, treatment may include drops, ointments or medications to eliminate the yeast.