How to Get to Catalina Island. The most common way to get to Catalina Island is via ferry. There are several ferry companies that run regular trips to the island, with five main departure points – Long Beach, San Pedro, Marina Del Rey, Dana Point and Newport Beach. It’s also possible to get to Catalina Island by helicopter or small plane, which we will cover at the end of the page. Dana Point. Dana Point is the closest an most sensible point of departure for residents of San Diego and surrounding areas for getting to Catalina Island. Catalina Express departs from Dana Point for Avalon year-round, although schedules vary to accommodate peak travel times.
1 To reach Catalina Island from San Diego, CA, via Newport Beach, take the 5 Freeway North to the 55 Freeway south until it turns into Newport Blvd in Newport Beach. 2  Newport Blvd becomes Balboa Blvd as it makes the left turn onto the Balboa Peninsula. 3  At Main Street, turn left to access the Newport Beach ferry terminal. . Although there is not a Catalina Island ferry from San Diego, Dana Point and Newport Beach offer convenient options. San Diego is one of California’s most fascinating and populous counties, home to more than three million people.
A world away… in about an hour. Catalina Express takes you to Catalina Island in just an hour with year round service and up to 30 daily departures. Boats depart ports in Long Beach, San Pedro and Dana Point. Catalina is just 22 miles off the coast of Southern California. From adventure to luxury, Catalina Island has it all. Visit the picturesque town of Avalon or the rustic village of Two Harbors. Avalon is filled with activities on land and sea. Two Harbors is a spectacular remote location with campgrounds and beautiful beaches. Catalina Island, a wonderful day or overnight getaway.
Catalina Island Transportation-How to Get Around. On Catalina Island, transportation is a combination of quaint, convenient and uncomplicated. Most visitors to the island arrive in Avalon, where a number of options for Catalina Island transportation are available both within the city and for the rest of the island. The most popular form of transportation in Avalon is walking. With just about two square miles of land, the village is eminently walkable. 
Public transportation to Catalina Island is available via ferry and helicopter. 1  Catalina Island ferries are available from Dana Point, Newport Beach, Long Beach and San Pedro. Although there is not a Catalina Island ferry from San Diego, Dana Point and Newport Beach offer convenient options. San Diego is one of California’s most fascinating and populous counties, home to more than three million people.
The Catalina Express departs for Avalon and Two Harbors from San Pedro, making the trip in about 1.25 hrs. Schedules vary to accommodate peak travel times throughout the year. Round trip tickets are $69.50 for adults, $63 for seniors 55 yrs+, $54 for children 12 and under, and $4 for infants under 2 yrs of age. Dana Point. Dana Point is the closest an most sensible point of departure for residents of San Diego and surrounding areas for getting to Catalina Island. Catalina Express departs from Dana Point for Avalon year-round, although schedules vary to accommodate peak travel times.
Island Express-Helicopter. With helicopter service from Long Beach, San Pedro and Orange County, Island Express Helicopters can get you to and from Catalina Island fast! Call providers or go online for current schedules as schedules change seasonally. 800.228.2566. Getting to Catalina Island is fast and easy. It’s takes only one hour via high-speed ferry or 15 minutes via helicopter to get you to paradise.
Reservations Recommended. Catalina Express, the only year round boat service to Catalina Island, offers the convenience of up to 30 round trip daily departures from Long Beach, San Pedro and Dana Point to the cities of Avalon and Two Harbors. 
Getting to Catalina Island. Travel to Catalina Island is easier than ever... Take a cruise from Long Beach with Catalina Express from Long Beach, San Pedro or Dana Point, from Newport Beach with Catalina Passenger Service, or fly over in a helicopter with Island Express from Long Beach or San Pedro. 
Getting to Catalina Island. Getting to Catalina Island is fast and easy. It’s takes only one hour via high-speed ferry or 15 minutes via helicopter to get you to paradise. Two companies offer ferry service from the Southern California cities of Long Beach, San Pedro, Dana Point and Newport Beach to both Avalon and Two Harbors