Dead Leg (Quadriceps Contusion). A dead leg or charley horse is a bruise or contusion caused by a sharp impact with a muscle which is usually crushed against the thigh bone resulting in swelling and sometimes bruising of the thigh muscles. 
Download the Quadriceps Contusion (cork thigh) fact sheet. Quadriceps contusion or a ‘cork thigh’, as it is commonly known, is the result of a severe impact to the thigh which consequently compresses against the hard surface of the femur (thigh bone). This often causes deep rupture to the muscle tissue and haemorrhage occurs, which is followed by inflammation
A “corked thigh” or muscle contusion is caused by a severe impact to the muscles of the thigh causing damage to these muscles, resulting in internal bleeding and subsequent inflammation. A haematoma (collection of blood in the tissues) in the quadriceps muscle may occur. A corked thigh is usually caused by a direct blow to the thigh muscle often during contact sports, such as football or rugby. Treatment involves rest, ice and compression and elevation of the limb.
Intramuscular Contusion. This is a tearing of the muscle within the sheath that surrounds it. This means that the initial bleeding may stop early (within hours) because of increased pressure within the muscle. However, the fluid is unable to escape as the muscle sheath prevents it. The result is considerable loss of muscle function, power and pain which can take days or weeks to recover. You are not likely to see any bruising come out with this type-especially in the early stages. Physiotherapy and carefully performed Massage Therapy are highly recommended for a speedy recovery
A cork or as it is more formerly known a muscle contusion is a common occurrence in many sports, especially contact sports such as football, rugby and basketball. Contusions occur when a direct blow or repeated blows from a blunt object strike part of the body, or from a fall onto a hard surface. 
Introduction. A muscle haematoma, or “cork” as they are often called, is a common occurrence in many sports. These muscles haematomas are most prevalent in those who participate in contact sports; such as rugby and football (Smith et al., 2006). A muscle haematoma, or “cork” as they are often called, is a common occurrence in many sports
Myositis Ossificans. A condition in which the bruised muscle grows bone instead of new muscle cells. Symptoms may include mild to severe pain that does not go away and swelling at the injury site. Although this is most common following more severe muscle contusions, it may also occur in more minor cases. The most common place for a contusion to occur is in the thigh (quadriceps) and is known as a ‘cork thigh’, ‘corkie’ or ‘charlie horse’. Most contusions are minor and heal quickly without taking you out of the game.
• A cork is a muscle bruise How do you get a Cork? • Corks result form blunt trauma to an area of the body, commonly in the front or side of the thigh eg. if 2 players collide and one is hit in the thigh by the knee of the other. What does a Cork feel like? • Corks usually result in swelling and are sore to touch. • A cork may result in immediate pain, weakness, muscle spasm and stiffness, occasionally leaving you unable to continue. • As you cool down after sport/exercise it is likely that the pain, tightness and muscle spasm will increase.