Let’s hope brands and companies are listening! You can easily find and purchase halal marshmallows that are made from beef gelatin these days vs. let’s say around thirteen years ago when I was a new Muslim desperately seeking them. But I find that the evolution of halal products is slow and has many deficiencies. 
A marshmallow is a sugar based candy that, in its modern form, typically consists of sugar, water and gelatin whipped to a spongy consistency, molded into small cylindrical pieces, and coated with corn starch. Some marshmallow recipes call for eggs. 
1 Next melt the butter in a saucepan on low heat until it melts. 2  Add in the 2 bags of marshmallows and stir until it starts to melt down. 3  Add in the vanilla and maple syrup and stir until the marshmallow is completely gooey. 4  Turn off the heat and pour in the bowl of cereal, peanuts and popcorn. 
Halal is an Arabic word meaning lawful or permitted. The opposite of Halal is Haram, which means unlawful or prohibited. Halal and Haram are universal terms that apply to all aspects of life. The word Halal is commonly used for food items. 
Report Abuse. I buy Halal marshmallows here in Toronto Canada, made by a Lebanese company Cedar, I have also bought Kosher ones they to are made with a seaweed gelatin, non animal filtered sugars, no eggs. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Marshmallows is haram if it has gelatin if it has pectin it's not haram but there is Halal Marshmallows all over the world available in supermarket. Coke has been baned by some Scholars because of their support to Israel. No, no.. coke is not haram .. Coke is made from completely halal substances .. i.e. all vegetable... no cocheanel or anything.. However, marshmallows often contain gelatin from PORK so I would not go anywhere near them-unless you buy them from a halaal sweetstore :D.
Anyway, enough about my love for marshmallows, here’s how you can make your own halal vanilla marshmallows to throw in your own hot chocolate this winter. Here’s what you need for to make your own halal marshmallows: 1  1 cup of cold water. 2  90 grams of unflavoured halal gelatin. 3  2 cups of sugar. 4  2/3 cup corn syrup. 5  A dash of salt. 6  2 teaspoons vanilla (or any other flavour you wish to use). 7  1 cup icing sugar. 1 Let it cool for about 10-20 minutes until the gelatin absorbs the water. 2  Mix the sugar, salt, ½ cup of water and corn syrup in a saucepan, and stir over medium heat until the sugar is completely dissolved. 3  Once the sugar is dissolved, increase the heat and bring it to a boil (about 115 degrees celsius).
They're basically a combination of sugar, corn syrup, and gelatin. This mixture is whipped until tripled in volume, resulting in a light fluffy mess of marshmallow cream. It's so pillowy and delicious, it's hard not to lick the bowl. Start a day ahead: the finished marshmallows need a night to set. 1 Place the gelatin into the bowl of a stand mixer along with 1/2 cup of the water. 2  Have the whisk attachment standing by. 3  In a small saucepan combine the remaining 1/2 cup water, granulated sugar, corn syrup and salt.
1 (Alternatively, you can bloom the gelatin in a small cup and transfer it to the stand mixer.). 2  Combine the ingredients for the syrup: Pour 3/4 cup water into the 4-quart saucepan. 3  Pour the sugar, corn syrup, and salt on top. 4  Do not stir. 1 Set the bowl back in your standing mixer. ( 2 Alternatively, you can bloom the gelatin in a small cup and transfer it to the stand mixer.). 3  Combine the ingredients for the syrup: Pour 3/4 cup water into the 4-quart saucepan. 4