As far as losing your license, CNAs are not licensed. They have a certification, but not a license. Yes, the RN is ultimately responsible for the patient. If something goes wrong due to lack of care from the CNA the BON will go after the RN. 
If you happen to have lost your CNA license you can take the below mentioned route to reach the lost card: Losing the CNA license is like losing the CNA career, because this is the one on the strength of which you have got the job you have always dreamt to have. Any employer first conducts CNA license check and if it’s a valid one, the chance for you to get the job is bright. 1 But don’t panic so much because there is a cure for this problem too. 2  Get in touch with your State’s Nursing Board and find out what needs to be done in such a situation. 3  Request for a replacement card for the one you have lost. 4  Follow the instructions as provided by the State Nursing Board to recover your CNA license.
Possible ways you could lose your CNA certification: 1  Not following HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) regulations may very well cause the revocation of your certification. 2  HIPAA is a privacy act that protects patient information. 1 Be careful though, some states have smaller time periods that this. 2  For example, in Illinois you must work for at least eight hours as a CNA every two years in order to keep your certification current.
1 Get in touch with your State’s Nursing Board and find out what needs to be done in such a situation. 2  Request for a replacement card for the one you have lost. 3  Follow the instructions as provided by the State Nursing Board to recover your CNA license. 1 But don’t panic so much because there is a cure for this problem too. 2  Get in touch with your State’s Nursing Board and find out what needs to be done in such a situation. 3  Request for a replacement card for the one you have lost. 4
After working hard in CNA training programs, you do not want to lose your certification. Many CNA programs are $10,000 or more for the full college education, training, and job placement. With this type of investment you should take care not to lose your certification or to have it revoked. If you lose the certification card your state registry of nurses should have a copy for you to obtain. For instance, if you have a criminal record and lie about it this could result in a loss of certification. Each state is different, but in general if you have or become convicted of a crime you will lose certification-even if it is something like a DUI. A lapse in employment as a CNA can lead to
While abusing narcotics is reason enough to lose your nursing license, many board will suspend your license and require you enter an addiction recovery group. There are even recovery groups just for nurses in this position. If you complete your therapy and remain clean, you can retain your license. 
CNA License Renewal. Losing your license because you abused or neglected patients will most likely result in a permanent revocation. This includes such things as stealing from them, letting them lay in dirty bed linen, or neglecting to feed them. It’s also possible to neglect a patient’s emotional needs. One of the worst things you can do is lie on your application form. For instance, if you’ve got criminal convictions in the past and don’t own up to them on the application and you’re discovered, you’ll lose your job and your license. There are certain crimes that will keep you from getting a new CNA license.
Inactivity or Expiration. In order to maintain a current CNA license, a CNA must work a certain number of hours every two years. For these hours, the nurse's assistant must receive wages, as unpaid volunteer work does not qualify. Most states specify that a CNA must work eight hours within the time period. If your license is expired due to an inactivate period or the passing of an expiration date, you will need to retake CNA courses before obtaining a new license. You may repeat any college course work or attend training through a medical facility.
1 Unemployed as a CNA for more than five years and you will probably need to be re-certified. 2  Be careful though, some states have smaller time periods that this. 3  For example, in Illinois you must work for at least eight hours as a CNA every two years in order to keep your certification current. 1 Be careful though, some states have smaller time periods that this. 2
In the future---assuming you keep your certification---if you feel an assignment is unsafe, TELL YOUR MANAGER. Don't just throw up your hands and quit. Not only will you be ineligible for rehire, but word gets around and it may be difficult, if not impossible, to find another job. Best of luck. 