Kathy /ka-thy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced kath-EE. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Kathy is pure. Short form of Katherine. TV host Kathie Lee Gifford; actress Kathy Najimy. Related girl name: Catherine. Kathy ▼ has 21 more related forms via Katherine, Kathie: Catha, Cathi, Cathye, Caty, Kaity, Kat, Kata, Kate ▲ , Katee, Katey, Katha, Kathryn ▼ , Kati ▼ , Katie ▼ , Katka, Katla, Katrya, Katy ▼ , Katya, Kay ▼ and Kitty ▼ .
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. View the Kathy Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kathy has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kathy to other names. Kathy is a diminutive (nickname) of Katherine, Kathleen.
Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Kathy Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kathy has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kathy to other names. Kathy is a diminutive (nickname) of Katherine, Kathleen. Variants of the name Kathy include Kathi, Kathi
Greek Meaning: The name Cathy is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Cathy is: Form of the Greek Catherine meaning 'pure'. American Meaning: The name Cathy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cathy is: Form of the Greek Catherine meaning 'pure'. French Meaning: The name Cathy is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Cathy is: Pure, clear. Form of the Latin Katharina, from the Greek Aikaterina. Latin Meaning: The name Cathy is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Cathy is: Pure, clear. Form of the Latin 'Katharina', from the Greek 'Aikaterina'. It was borne by a number of saints, including St Catherine of Alexandria, a 4th century martyr who suffered torture on a spiked wheel
English Meaning: The name Kathy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kathy is: Pure. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 2. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
kat-hy, ka-thy ] The baby girl name Kathy is pronounced as K EY-TH-iy- †. Kathy is used predominantly in English and its origin is Old Greek. Kathy is a familiar form of the name Katherine (English). Kathy is uncommon as a baby girl name. At the height of its usage in 1958, 1.159% of baby girls were named Kathy. It was #14 in rank then. The baby name has fallen out of favor since then, and is currently of very modest use.
The name Kathy is of English origin, and it means Pure . It's a name commonly given to girls. Kathy Bates is an actress, director, and producer with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1971 to present. According to the 1954 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Kathy ranks #36 in popularity as a baby girl's name in Maine. Imagine that, 62 babies in Maine have the same name as you in 1954. Across the entire United States a total of 14,197 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Kathy is a very prominent first name for women (#71 out of 4276, Top 2%) and a slightly less prominent last name for all people (#130443 out of 150436, Top 87%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Kathy for girls. Related girl name: Catherine. Kathy ▼ has 21 more related forms via Katherine, Kathie: Catha, Cathi, Cathye, Caty, Kaity, Kat, Kata, Kate ▲ , Katee, Katey, Katha, Kathryn ▼ , Kati ▼ , Katie ▼ , Katka, Katla, Katrya, Katy ▼ , Katya, Kay ▼ and Kitty ▼ .