Pericardium: The conical sac of fibrous tissue that surrounds the heart and the roots of the great blood vessels. The pericardium's outer coat (the parietal pericardium) is tough and thickened, loosely cloaks the heart, and is attached to the central part of the diaphragm and the back of the breastbone. Its inner coat (the visceral pericardium or epicardium) is double, with one layer closely adherent to the heart and the other lining the inner surface of the outer coat. The intervening space between these layers is filled with pericardial fluid.
In between the parietal and visceral pericardial layers there is a potential space called the pericardial cavity, which contains a supply of lubricating serous fluid known as the pericardial fluid. When the visceral layer comes into contact with heart (not the great vessels) it is known as the epicardium. The pericardium is a tough double layered fibroserous sac which covers the heart. The space between the two layers of serous pericardium (see below), the pericardial cavity, is filled with serous fluid which protects the heart from any kind of external jerk or shock.
serous pericardium the inner, serous portion of pericardium, consisting of two layers, visceral and parietal; the space between the layers is the pericardial cavity. visceral pericardium the inner layer of the serous pericardium, which is in contact with the heart and roots of the great vessels. Called also epicardium. It is a closed sac having two layers: the visceral layer (epicardium), immediately surrounding and applied to all the heart's surfaces, and the outer parietal layer, forming the sac, composed of strong fibrous tissue (fibrous pericardium [TA]) lined with a serous membrane (serous pericardium [TA]).
What is Pericardium, definition and function. Pericardium is a tough, two-layer membranous sac that encloses the HEART. The pericardium’s fibrous outer layer, called the fibrous pericardium, protects the heart from contact with the chest wall and other structures in the chest, including the LUNGS and the sternum. The inner layer of the pericardium is a filmy envelope. Its two surfaces are the parietal pericardium, which contacts the fibrous pericardium, and the epicardium, which covers the MYOCARDIUM somewhat like a wet tissue. Inside the envelope is a watery fluid that lubricates the heart.
It is a closed sac having two layers: the visceral layer (epicardium), immediately surrounding the heart, and the outer parietal layer, forming the sac, composed of strong fibrous tissue, the fibrous pericardium, lined with a serous membrane, the serous pericardium. Synonym(s): heart sac, theca cordis. [L. fr. It is a closed sac having two layers: the visceral layer (epicardium), immediately surrounding and applied to all the heart's surfaces, and the outer parietal layer, forming the sac, composed of strong fibrous tissue (fibrous pericardium [TA]) lined with a serous membrane (serous pericardium [TA]).
Definition of PERICARDIUM. 1. : the conical sac of serous membrane that encloses the heart and the roots of the great blood vessels of vertebrates. 2. : a cavity or space that contains the heart of an invertebrate and in arthropods is a part of the hemocoel. See pericardium defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Noun. 1. pericardium-a serous membrane with two layers that surrounds the heart. epicardium, visceral pericardium-the innermost of the two layers of the pericardium. parietal pericardium-the tough outermost layer of the pericardium that is attached to the diaphragm and the sternum. 
The pericardium (from the Greek περί, around and κάρδιον, heart) is a double-walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels. The pericardial sac has two layers, a serous layer and a fibrous layer. It encloses the pericardial cavity which contains pericardial fluid. The pericardium is a tough double layered fibroserous sac which covers the heart. The space between the two layers of serous pericardium (see below), the pericardial cavity, is filled with serous fluid which protects the heart from any kind of external jerk or shock.