Channel Planning: a new media planning tool. Insight into the potential power of 15 different types of media. Nationaal Onderzoek Multimedia (NOM, National Multimedia Survey) is a joint venture of Print operators, media agencies and advertisers. NOM is responsible for the collective survey on the reach of print media. The database will form the foundation of the ‘Channel Planning’ tool. Users of the tool will be able to determine the optimal choice of media type(s) for their specific target groups (for instance, on the basis of their needs and socio-demographics), their product categories and their communication targets.
To figure this out, you need to consider the context in which your audience will view the content and then use that to alter the content accordingly. In short, you need a content marketing channel plan that considers these seven factors: 1  Situational analysis. 2. This is where you map objectives of the marketing channels to the engagement cycle (remember these are tightly woven with your ultimate goals). And it’s perfectly okay if a channel only “contributes” to another channel.
A channel strategy is a vendor's plan for moving a product or a service through the chain of commerce to the end customer. Product manufacturers and service providers face a number of channel options. The simplest approach is the direct channel in which the vendor sells directly to the customer. See complete definition. Citrix Solution Advisor. Citrix Solution Advisor is Citrix Systems Inc.'s global channel partner program for partners who plan, design, implement and ... See complete definition. Full Packaged Product (FPP). Full Packaged Product (FPP) is the retail version of a Microsoft licensed product.
Multichannel retailing or Omnichannel retailing is the use of a variety of channels in a customer's shopping experience including research before a purchase. 
Communication planning is the art and science of reaching target audiences using marketing communication channels such as advertising, public relations, experiences or direct mail for example. It is concerned with deciding who to target, when, with what message and how. 
The appropriate strategy can vary from one product or service to another. A vendor that builds a channel strategy around both direct and indirect sales channels must take care to avoid channel conflict. See complete definition. Citrix Solution Advisor. Citrix Solution Advisor is Citrix Systems Inc.'s global channel partner program for partners who plan, design, implement and ... See complete definition. Full Packaged Product (FPP). Full Packaged Product (FPP) is the retail version of a Microsoft licensed product.
Channel objectives. This is where you map objectives of the marketing channels to the engagement cycle (remember these are tightly woven with your ultimate goals). And it’s perfectly okay if a channel only “contributes” to another channel. 2
Demand planning is a multi-step operational supply chain management (SCM) process used to create reliable forecasts. Effective demand planning can guide users to improve the accuracy of revenue forecasts, align inventory levels with peaks and troughs in demand, and enhance profitability for a given channel or product.
Editorial plan. Lastly, you’ll need an editorial plan for the channel. This will map to your global editorial calendar — but doesn’t identify dates or times yet. The purpose of the editorial plan is to define velocity, tone, desired action, and structure for the content for this channel. 2. This is where you map objectives of the marketing channels to the engagement cycle (remember these are tightly woven with your ultimate goals). And it’s perfectly okay if a channel only “contributes” to another channel.