Amanita muscaria, commonly known as the fly agaric or fly amanita, is a mushroom and psychoactive basidiomycete fungus, one of many in the genus Amanita. 
Abundant worldwide, most fungi are inconspicuous because of the small size of their structures, and their cryptic lifestyles in soil, on dead matter. They are both symbionts of plants, animals, or other fungi and also parasites. They may become noticeable when fruiting, either as mushrooms or as molds. Fungi perform an essential role in the decomposition of organic matter and have fundamental roles in nutrient cycling and exchange in the environment. The use of the word mycology, which is derived from the Greek mykes (μύκης mushroom) and logos (λόγος discourse), to denote the scientific study of fungi is thought to have originated in 1836 with English naturalist Miles Joseph Berkeley 's publication The English Flora of Sir James Edward Smith, Vol. 5.
However, delineation between edible and poisonous fungi is not clear-cut, so a mushroom may be edible, poisonous, or unpalatable. The term toadstool is nowadays used in storytelling when referring to poisonous or suspect mushrooms. The classic example of a toadstool is Amanita muscaria. Mushroom has been used for polypores, puffballs, jelly fungi, coral fungi, bracket fungi, stinkhorns, and cup fungi. Thus, the term is more one of common application to macroscopic fungal fruiting bodies than one having precise taxonomic meaning. Approximately 14,000 species of mushrooms are described.
A fungus (plural: fungi) is a kind of living organism: yeasts, moulds and mushrooms are types of fungi. The fungi are a separate kingdom of living things, different from animals and plants. Fungi have cells with nuclei. Their cell walls contain chitin, unlike the cell walls of plants, which contain cellulose. These and other differences show that the fungi form a single group of related organisms, called the Eumycota or Eumycetes. They share a common ancestor and are monophyletic group. Fungi reproduce both sexually and asexually. Some fungi grow mushrooms: these are fruiting bodies. Under the cap there are gills; the gills bear spores that will disperse, and may develop into new fungi. Otherwise, fungi use a sporangium to bear asexual spores by mitosis, or sexual spores by meiosis.
The main use is that a fungi name penicillium notatum use for making medicene peniciline. Fungi are important as they can be used to decompose dead matter. It can help destroy green flies. It can also be useful for making citric acid, antibiotics and they can be useful for food e.g. wine, beer and bread. You can eat mushrooms.
Mycology is the branch of biology concerned with the systematic study of fungi, including their genetic and biochemical properties, their taxonomy, and their use to humans as a source of medicine, food, and psychotropic substances consumed for religious purposes, as well as their dangers, such as poisoning or infection. The use of the word mycology, which is derived from the Greek mykes (μύκης mushroom) and logos (λόγος discourse), to denote the scientific study of fungi is thought to have originated in 1836 with English naturalist Miles Joseph Berkeley 's publication The English Flora of Sir James Edward Smith, Vol. 5.
Pharmacological research has now isolated antifungal, antiviral, and antiprotozoan, isolates from fungi. The fungus with probably the longest record of medicinal use, Ganoderma lucidum, is known in Chinese as ling líng (zhī spirit), plant and In japanese as (10,000 10000 year). mushroom
The discipline of biology devoted to the study of fungi is known as mycology (from the Greek μύκης, mukēs, meaning fungus). In the past, mycology was regarded as a branch of botany; today it is a separate kingdom in biological taxonomy. The use of the word mycology, which is derived from the Greek mykes (μύκης mushroom) and logos (λόγος discourse), to denote the scientific study of fungi is thought to have originated in 1836 with English naturalist Miles Joseph Berkeley 's publication The English Flora of Sir James Edward Smith, Vol. 5.
For other uses, see Candida. Candida is a genus of yeasts and is the most common cause of fungal infections worldwide. Many species are harmless commensals or endosymbionts of hosts including humans; however, when mucosal barriers are disrupted or the immune system is compromised they can invade and cause disease