1 Fluoroquinolones (Cipro, Levaquin, Avelox) are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States, but they carry severe side effects that can harm your central nervous system, musculoskeletal, visual and renal systems, sometimes simultaneously. Fluoroquinolones are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States. Among the most well known is Cipro (made by Bayer), which became a household name during the anthrax scare that occurred shortly after 9/11. Levaquin is a close second.
To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of CIPRO Tablets and CIPRO Oral Suspension and other antibacterial drugs, CIPRO Tablets and CIPRO Oral Suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. Stop using ciprofloxacin and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  severe dizziness, fainting, fast or pounding heartbeats; 2  sudden pain, snapping or popping sound, bruising, swelling, tenderness, stiffness, or loss of movement in any of your joints;
Ciprofloxacin is used to treat a wide variety of infections, including infections of bones and joints, endocarditis, gastroenteritis, malignant otitis externa, respiratory tract infections, cellulitis, urinary tract infections, prostatitis, anthrax, and chancroid. Ciprofloxacin only treats bacterial infections; it does not treat viral infections such as the common cold. For certain uses including acute sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections and uncomplicated gonorrhea, ciprofloxacin is not considered a first-line agent.
General Information about CIPRO Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide. Do not use CIPRO for a condition for which it is not prescribed. Do not give CIPRO to other people, even if they have the same symptoms that you have. It may harm them. Do not take CIPRO if you: •. have ever had a severe allergic reaction to an antibiotic known as a fluoroquinolone, or are. allergic to any of the ingredients in CIPRO. Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure. See the list of ingredients in CIPRO at the end of this
Ciprofloxacin is a prescription antibiotic. It belongs to a class of drugs called fluoroquinolones, or quinolones for short. This medication is an active ingredient in several different prescription products and is used to treat a variety of infections. Ciprofloxacin comes in many forms, including: 1  A regular tablet. 2  An extended-release tablet.
Ciprofloxacin is an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections. This includes bone and joint infections, intra abdominal infections, certain type of infectious diarrhea, respiratory tract infections, skin infections, typhoid fever, and urinary tract infections, among others. Ciprofloxacin only treats bacterial infections; it does not treat viral infections such as the common cold. For certain uses including acute sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections and uncomplicated gonorrhea, ciprofloxacin is not considered a first-line agent.
Ciprofloxacin is the generic form of the brand-name antibiotic Cipro. Doctors prescribe ciprofloxacin to treat or prevent infections caused by various bacteria that are sensitive to ciprofloxacin. The drug works by preventing bacteria from reproducing. Common infections treated with ciprofloxacin include: 1  Skin infections. 2  Sinusitis. 3  Urinary tract infections (UTI).
By Dr. Mercola Fluoroquinolones are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States. Among the most well known is Cipro (made by Bayer), which became a household name during the anthrax scare that occurred shortly after 9/11. Levaquin is a close second.
If your doctor hands you a prescription for a fluoroquinolone antibiotic (this could be not only Cipro or Levaquin but also Avelox or generics ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and moxifloxacin, or others), be very certain that your condition warrants the risks that come along with taking these drugs. Fluoroquinolones are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States. Among the most well known is Cipro (made by Bayer), which became a household name during the anthrax scare that occurred shortly after 9/11. Levaquin is a close second.
If you have an infection, your healthcare provider may prescribe ciprofloxacin. Specifically, the oral and injectable forms of ciprofloxacin are prescribed for treating certain bacterial infections, such as: 1  Urinary tract infections (UTIs), commonly called bladder infections. 2  Kidney infections. 3  Pneumonia. 4  Bronchitis.