To become one, you'll need to go to school for at least two years after earning a bachelor's degree, and you'll need to apply to your state board of nursing to be recognized as an advanced practice nurse. There is a separate exam that must be passed in order for a pediatric nurse to practice as a PNP.
Pediatric Nurse Education Requirements. In terms of educational background, pediatric nurse requirements include either an Associate's or a Bachelor's degree in Nursing. An Associate's degree (ADN) typically takes two years to complete, while a Bachelor's degree (BSN) typically takes four years. ADN programs are usually offered by community colleges.
If you want to specialize in pediatric oncology nursing, choose an RN program, which is also required if you want to earn certification as a pediatric oncology nurse. While there are no undergraduate degree programs just for pediatric oncology nursing, many colleges and universities offer elective courses in the field.
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program.
To become a pediatric nurse practitioner, you will need to meet these requirements in addition to your RN: 1  Earning a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree that includes specialized coursework in pediatrics. 2  Many nursing schools offer this type of degree through a two-year program.
Aspiring pediatric nurses may also complete a 2-year Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) or a 4-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing(BSN). Like nursing diploma programs, these degree programs offer classroom education combined with clinical experience.
A: If you want to become a nurse practitioner you will need a bachelor's of science in nursing degree which has duration of four years. Once you are done with this, you will need to enroll in a master's of science in nursing.
Pediatric Nurse Education Requirements and Career Information. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a pediatric nurse. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.