When someone mentions Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain, she and Willie Nelson are the first two people I think of. Bob-Kingwood, Tx. I was 16 when I first heard Willie singBlue eyes Crying In The Rainand I've always like his music ever since!!Ol'Willie's a helluva singer and a Texas Icon to boot!! John-Mansfield, Tx. Sorry Julian, Always on My Mind was not written by Nelson but by Johnny Christopher, Mark James and Wayne Carson Thompson. Elvis's version was clearly the better of the two, a lot better. Bill-Denton, Tx. Unchained Melody and Blue eyes crying in the rain were the last two songs Elvis sang and played on his piano at Graceland before he died.
Please try again later. Blue Eyes Crying In The Rain from Willie Nelson's Live From Austin Texas performance. Buy it today on Amazon http://amzn.to/1dL5tyz or iTunes http://smarturl.it/WillieLFAT. 
Originally performed by Roy Acuff, the song was later recorded by Willie Nelson as part of his 1975 album Red Headed Stranger. Both the song and album would become iconic in country music history, and jump start Nelson's success as a singer and recording artist. In addition, the song gained modest airplay on Top 40 radio, reaching number 21 on the Billboard Hot 100. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain #302 on its list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain  is a song written by songwriter Fred Rose. In addition, the song gained modest airplay on Top 40 radio, reaching number 21 on the Billboard Hot 100. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain #302 on its list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
The VERY FIRST recording of ''Blue Eyes Crying In The Rain'' by The King of Country Music himself, Roy Claxton Acuff. This particular version was recorded in 1945, 30 years before it became popular.  1 Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain by Roy Acuff (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 2  Music. 3  Standard YouTube License. 
With his original writings, Nelson included on the story, Fred Rose 's  Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain , Wolfe Gilbert 's  Down Yonder , Juventino Rosas '  O'er the Waves , Hank Cochran 's Can I Sleep in Your Arms?, Eddy Arnold 's I Couldn't Believe it Was True, and Billy Callery's Hands on the Wheel. The complete album was performed and recorded by Carla Bozulich in 2003. The Red Headed Stranger included a guest appearance by Nelson. A first season episode of the dramedy series Monk is entitled . Mr. Monk and the Red-Headed Stranger , and guest-stars Willie Nelson.
Prior to the success of Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain, Nelson had enjoyed widespread success primarily as a songwriter, with such songs as Crazy (Patsy Cline) and Hello Walls (Faron Young). In addition, the song gained modest airplay on Top 40 radio, reaching number 21 on the Billboard Hot 100. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain #302 on its list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Report Abuse. Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain is a song written by songwriter Fred Rose. Originally performed by Roy Acuff, the song was later recorded by Willie Nelson as part of his 1975 album Red Headed Stranger. Both the song and album would become iconic in country music history, and jump start Nelson's fledgling career. This Site Might Help You. RE: Who wrote the song Blue Eyes Crying in The Rain? I know Willie Nelson sang it but who WROTE it? Is it possible that it was written by Hank Williams Sr.? I heard a rare recording of this song which claimed to be sung by Hank Williams Sr. Can anyone confirm this for me?
Elvis Presley finally recorded Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain (having sung it privately with friends and family for years while accompanying himself on piano) in the Jungle Room at Graceland on 7 February 1976. In addition, the song gained modest airplay on Top 40 radio, reaching number 21 on the Billboard Hot 100. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain #302 on its list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Originally recorded in 1945 by Acuff, Nelson picked up Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain as part of his latest concept album, Red Headed Stranger, about a fugitive preacher on the run from the law after killing his wife. This Site Might Help You. RE: Who wrote the song Blue Eyes Crying in The Rain? I know Willie Nelson sang it but who WROTE it? Is it possible that it was written by Hank Williams Sr.? I heard a rare recording of this song which claimed to be sung by Hank Williams Sr. Can anyone confirm this for me?