State regulations define a paralegal’s scope of practice. In nearly all states, paralegals must work under the direct supervision of an attorney. Paralegals must uphold standards of ethics and confidentiality. They may not offer legal opinions or legal advice, represent clients in court, accept new clients into the practice or set legal fees. Paralegals and Legal Assistants. Paralegals are an indispensible part of the legal system, providing support to attorneys, law offices, government agencies and corporations by researching legal precedent, performing investigative work on cases and preparing legal documents.
Law firms also are attempting to reduce billing costs due to pressure from clients. Paralegals can be a less costly alternative to lawyers and can perform a wide variety of duties, including tasks once done by lawyers. This will cause an increase in demand for paralegals and legal assistants. The median annual wage for paralegals and legal assistants was $46,990 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $29,420, and the top 10 percent earned more than $75,410.
How to Become a Paralegal or Legal Assistant. Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers may hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or specialized education and train them on the job. The median annual wage for paralegals and legal assistants was $46,990 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $29,420, and the top 10 percent earned more than $75,410.
The National Association of Legal Assistants (NALA) states that the terms paralegal and legal assistant are interchangeable. Therefore, a legal assistant job description is the same as a paralegal job description. The title is a little misleading because paralegals, also known as legal assistants, can perform tasks ranging from secretarial work to management. A legal assistant job description would be similar, ...
A paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. The role that a paralegal has in the United States is similar to the role of a law clerk or legal assistant in Ontario. Many paralegals in Ontario work in the areas of permitted practice for paralegals and also work alongside lawyers in areas of practice that are only permitted to be practiced by lawyers.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A paralegal or legal assistant is a trained person, often with certification from state or government agencies, who performs a variety of support jobs for supervising lawyers. 
Paralegals and legal secretaries are both essential roles in a law firm. But many people do not know what the difference is between a paralegal and a legal secretary. While paralegals perform more legal duties than a legal secretary, they are still considered a non-attorney and cannot perform certain tasks. For example, they can't give out legal advice or represent a client in court, but they can assist an attorney in court.
Certified and uncertified paralegals can be qualified to assist lawyers with a large variety of legal tasks. Quite often, the term legal assistant is substituted in describing these professionals. Certified paralegals work under the close supervision of lawyers. 
Both legal assistants and paralegals help attorneys conduct legal research, draft contracts and business agreements, conduct investigations, and prepare for trial. In private law offices, a paralegal’s work is charged to the client just as a lawyer’s time would be. 
The term “legal assistant” is a common title for a legal secretary or paralegal assistant. Many law firms have re-titled legal secretaries as “legal assistants” so they can bill certain tasks of the secretary (such as drafting correspondence or organizing documents) to clients. These two terms - “paralegal” and “legal assistant” - are still used synonymously in the legal industry. However, the growing trend is to use the title of “paralegal” for educated and/or certified employees who perform substantive legal tasks. In the past decade, the title of “legal assistant” has expanded to describe the roles of legal secretaries, law clerks and paralegal assistants. However, the trend is to use the term paralegal ” to avoid confusion with secretarial and other legal support roles. Surveys of the paralegal industry have revealed an overwhelming preference by paralegals for the title of “paralegal” over “legal assistant”.