Belvoir Castle is located near the town of Grantham in Leicestershire, overlooking the Vale of Belvoir. Belvoir (pronounced Beaver) is a stately home and a Grade I listed building. Belvoir castle has been the home of the Manners family for five hundred years. The Arts. Belvoir Castle has been used as a location for several films and television programmes: Little Lord Fauntleroy starring Sir Alec Guinness; The Da Vinci Code where it was used to portray Castel Gandolfo; The Young Victoria (2008).
In the campaign and Battle of Belvoir Castle (Kaukab al-Hawa), a Crusader force led by King Baldwin IV of Jerusalem sparred inconclusively with an Ayyubid army from Egypt commanded by Saladin. Saladin had seized control of Egypt in 1169 and established the Ayyubid Sultanate soon after. The security of the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem in the twelfth century was dependent upon a network of fortifications, mainly along its eastern border which was vulnerable to Muslim attacks. The Hospitaller castle of Belvoir was one of these. It is the first datable true concentric castle.
Belvoir Castle is the ancestral home of the Dukes of Rutland. The family have lived at Belvoir in an unbroken line for almost a thousand years. Crowning a hill in Leicestershire, its turrets and towers rise over the Vale of Belvoir like an illustration in a romantic fairytale. 
Belvoir Castle Facts. Belvoir Castle is a crusader castle in Israel built by the Knights Hospitaller around 1168 and occupied until 1219. Some form of castle already occupied the site before 1168, when it was sold to the Hospital of St John. Architecture. The Belvoir Castle is built mostly from the same black basalt upon which it stands, with limestone employed as freestone as well as for much of the inner and upper parts of the inner ward. It consists of two almost square enceintes, one inside the other, both defended by projecting rectangular towers.
Belvoir Castle is quite simply one of the most magnificent castles in the UK. The awe inspiring approach gives the first glimpse of this vast castle, standing sentinel over its private 16,000 acre estate, its very presence demands your undivided attention. IN THE AREA. Belvoir Castle is located near Grantham in Leicestershire. The Castle is just 7 miles from the A1 at Grantham affording excellent access from the M1 and national motorway network. London is around two hours by car, or there are trains from London Kings Cross to Grantham in one hour fifteen minutes.
Belvoir Castle (/ˈbiːvər/ BEE-vər) is a stately home in the English county of Leicestershire, overlooking the Vale of Belvoir (grid reference SK820337). So Belvoir castle has been the home of the Manners family for five hundred years, and seat of the Dukes of Rutland for over three centuries. In the early 17th century, castle servants Joan, Margaret and Phillipa Flower were accused of murdering the 6th Earl 's two young sons by witchcraft.
Belvoir Castle is a crusader castle in Israel built by the Knights Hospitaller around 1168 and occupied until 1219. Architecture. The Belvoir Castle is built mostly from the same black basalt upon which it stands, with limestone employed as freestone as well as for much of the inner and upper parts of the inner ward. It consists of two almost square enceintes, one inside the other, both defended by projecting rectangular towers.
Belvoir Castle in the late 19th century. The south west range and round tower of Belvoir Castle from Jones' Views of the seats of Noblemen and Gentlemen, published in 1829. So Belvoir castle has been the home of the Manners family for five hundred years, and seat of the Dukes of Rutland for over three centuries. In the early 17th century, castle servants Joan, Margaret and Phillipa Flower were accused of murdering the 6th Earl 's two young sons by witchcraft.
About Belvoir Castle. A castle has stood on this spot since the 11th-century, it was built by Robert de Todini, standard-bearer to William the Conqueror. By the 16th-century, when it was in a ruinous state it was presented to the powerful Manners family, who where later to become the Dukes of Rutland. On a further note of interest, the Belvoir foxhound was first bred close to the castle in the 18th-century, hence it took its name from Belvoir Castle. The fabulous Spring garden has been recently restored by the Duchess of Rutland. There is weekly limited access to castle and grounds during the summer months.
NG32 1PD. Welcome to Belvoir Castle, Leicestershire, England. The ancestral home of the Duke and Duchess of Rutland for one thousand years. The castle is currently the family home of the 11th Duke, Duchess and their young family. The name Belvoir means 'beautiful view' and dates from Norman times.