We consume some of the trans fats from the hydrogenated oil the fried food is cooked in. On average, Americans eat about 6g of trans fats per day. We should be consuming less than 2g a day to avoid negative effects on our cholesterol. Food usually becomes greasy because it has been deep fried in hot oil. Greasy, fatty foods also do not digest well. This can lead to problems such as excess gas, bloating, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation, and even more serious problems such as colon cancer.
But nothing is good when in excess. When you consume a lot of fried food, the body stores more and more of the incoming fat. Thus your body receives more and utilizes less. With all that piled up fat, you start looking bulkier and heavier. Fried foods make you obese and obesity in turn is the root cause of many ailments. This is probably the most common negative impact of eating fried foods. All the acne prone people who are fed up of their skin eruptions, try curbing your fat intake a little. You will see the difference yourself. Excess of fried food intake disturbs your body’s normal metabolism. Acne develop when the there is excessive sebum production on the skin. Too much of fried foods over activate the sebaceous gland
https://www.facebook.com/CochiseTarak... https://www.facebook.com/UrbanKrypton... Thanks for your support! Health Researcher Cochise Tarak-Saa of FITMANBRAND.COM elucidates on the effects that fried foods like french fries have on your body. A study conducted by Harvard Medical School showed The upper Midwestern part of the United States outlived the Southeastern part of the US because of how they prepared their foods. 
It should come as no surprise that greasy and fried foods affect our health in many negative ways. First of all, it makes you gain weight. Weight gain can lead to obesity, which can lead to high blood pressure, heart problems, diabetes, and even death. Secondly, greasy and fried foods have high cholesterol. Greasy, fatty foods also do not digest well. This can lead to problems such as excess gas, bloating, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation, and even more serious problems such as colon cancer.
You're at greater risk for high blood cholesterol and heart disease if you eat a diet that often includes deep-fried or breaded foods, which are high in fat. Foods that are fried or breaded tend to be very high in fat because they are cooked in fat. When you fry foods, such as chicken, that already contain saturated fat, you simply add more fat to them.
Plus, obesity basically means people are storing fried foods and carbohydrates as body fat, and for about a third of Americans, it's like carry-on luggage you can't set down, or at least not until you sit down. Face the facts: • Fried foods clog arteries and lead to strokes and Alzeimer's. • Corn oil and corn by-products (breading on almost everything) are also GMO and contain pesticide (http://breathing.com/articles/canola-oil.htm). • Most fried foods contain MSG (toxic salts) to enhance dead food flavor. • Taking antacids makes things worse-prevents natural enzyme production by the body.
If you've been binging on fried foods, you need to detoxify your blood and refortify organs. Take plenty of organic B vitamins, and check into dandelion root and milk thistle. Periodic detoxification is like changing the oil in your car; it must be done (http://www.mindfuleats.com/mindfuleats/2009/... • Corn oil and corn by-products (breading on almost everything) are also GMO and contain pesticide (http://breathing.com/articles/canola-oil.htm). • Most fried foods contain MSG (toxic salts) to enhance dead food flavor. • Taking antacids makes things worse-prevents natural enzyme production by the body.
• Fried means inflammatory foods which create problems with joints. • Arterial plaque increases blood pressure. • Potatoes and most bread (buns/pizza crust/pitas/tortillas, etc.) soak up the canola oil and turn to sugar in the stomach. • Corn oil and corn by-products (breading on almost everything) are also GMO and contain pesticide (http://breathing.com/articles/canola-oil.htm). • Most fried foods contain MSG (toxic salts) to enhance dead food flavor. • Taking antacids makes things worse-prevents natural enzyme production by the body.
Diets high in saturated fat and cholesterol tend to raise total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. Foods that are fried or breaded tend to be very high in fat because they are cooked in fat. When you fry foods, such as chicken, that already contain saturated fat, you simply add more fat to them. Take these actions to have a healthier heart. 1  If you don't know your blood cholesterol level, have it tested. 2  Each day, eat no more than 6 to 8 teaspoons of fats and vegetable oils