It is believed that the Boxer breed originated from the Brabanter Bullenbeisser which can be be traced back to Belgium. This dog was described as a strong and agile dog, much as the Boxer is today. The Brabanter Bullenbeisser was used by elite individuals in Germany to help in the hunting of wild boar. Trainability. The Boxer is a very intelligent breed, which has many benefits when training but also drawbacks. The benefits are obvious in that they learn quickly and are eager to further their training education. The downside to working with such an intelligent breed is that they also can and do think on their own.
Proportion and Size. The Boxer is a medium built breed and males should measure 22.5 – 25 inches in height and the female counterpart should be a height of 21 – 23.5 inches. The breed does not have a size disqualification but it is undesirable for males to be below the minimum or females above the maximum. Trainability. The Boxer is a very intelligent breed, which has many benefits when training but also drawbacks. The benefits are obvious in that they learn quickly and are eager to further their training education. The downside to working with such an intelligent breed is that they also can and do think on their own.
By 1895 the Boxer Klub was formally organized and a breed standard was described to help define what the Boxer should look like. In the majority of pictures from this era of the breed the Boxer is shown white in color. Trainability. The Boxer is a very intelligent breed, which has many benefits when training but also drawbacks. The benefits are obvious in that they learn quickly and are eager to further their training education. The downside to working with such an intelligent breed is that they also can and do think on their own.
The Boxer is a member of the Working Group. Boxers were first exhibited in a dog show for St. Bernards in Munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year. Based on 2013 American Kennel Club statistics, Boxers held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United States for the fourth consecutive year. Boxer is also the name of a dog owned by John Peerybingle, the main character in the best-selling 1845 book The Cricket on the Hearth by Charles Dickens, which is evidence that Boxer was commonly used as a dog name by the early 19th century, before the establishment of the breed by the end of that same century.
There are many schools of thought as to why and how the Boxer as a breed came into existence, but we do know the Boxer was a man made breed in the late 1800's. His ancestors, the Brabant Bullenbeisser, a Mastiff type dog, were originally bred in Germany. The Boxer 1896 As the breeders of that time wanted dogs suitable for hunting and holding prey, these dogs were then outcrossed with a smaller Mastiff type dog, (the originator of the the English Bulldog). 
The Boxer breed came into existence in the 1800's when a now extinct breed called the Bullenbeisser was bred with an English Bulldog. The Bullenbeisser breed was of the Mastiff family and was used for hunting. The breed had quite a journey. Sketching of a Bullenbeisser dog from 1738, the modern day Boxer's ancestor. Why This Breed was Developed and Methods for Doing So. Throughout history, man has been looking to perfect the perfect hunting partner and this is what started the idea of developing a new dog breed.
Working. History: The ancestors of Boxers can be traced back to a variety of dog breeds throughout Europe in the 16th century, but the breed was developed and perfected over the last several hundred years in Germany. Boxers are related to nearly all Bulldog-type breeds. 
General Appearance. The ideal Boxer is a medium-sized, square-built dog of good substance with short back, strong limbs, and short, tight-fitting coat. His well-developed muscles are clean, hard, and appear smooth under taut skin. His movements denote energy
The Boxer is a breed of medium-sized, short-haired dogs developed in Germany. Their coat is smooth and tight-fitting; colors are fawn or brindled, with or without white markings, which may cover the entire body, and white. Boxer is also the name of a dog owned by John Peerybingle, the main character in the best-selling 1845 book The Cricket on the Hearth by Charles Dickens, which is evidence that Boxer was commonly used as a dog name by the early 19th century, before the establishment of the breed by the end of that same century.