Training. In some states, laser hair removal technicians are trained on the job under the facility’s license. This may be a good option for those with medical training (for example, physicians, nurses or physician’s assistants). To become certified, they must pass a 100-question written exam developed by experts in the field. Necessary Skills and Qualities. Laser hair removal technicians should be friendly, customer-service oriented individuals who are able to put their clients at ease.
Medical laser technicians work in the field of medical aesthetics. They use laser technology for hair removal, skin lightening and tightening, tattoo removal, vein therapy, and other cosmetic procedures. Laser medical techs are often employed by medical offices, especially by dermatologists or plastic surgeons. Research the requirements to become a medical laser technician. Learn about the job description and duties and read the step-by-step process to start a career in medical laser technology. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Laser technician training can teach you how to help others make beautiful, healthy, glowing skin a top priority. Many people experience a rewarding boost to their self-confidence after undergoing a cosmetic procedure to remove unwanted hair, blemishes, or other perceived imperfections. Along with laser hair removal training, many schools teach you how to use lasers for other skin conditions. This includes acne treatments, fotofacials, skin rejuvenation, and wrinkle reduction.
What a Laser Hair Removal Technician Does. The main function of a laser technician is to help clients remove unwanted body hair and facial hair. In addition to hair removal, technicians may also provide other service, such as, skin rejuvenation and acne treatment. Here's what you need to know. Laser hair removal is a way to effectively and permanently remove unwanted hair from the face or body. A laser training program prepares students to safely administer electrolysis procedures.
Cosmetic Laser Technician Salary and Career Facts. Research what it takes to become a cosmetic laser technician. Learn about job duties, education requirements, licensure, job outlook, and salary to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Culinary Arts degrees can also be found in these popular choices. 
Employed vs. Self Employed. As a laser technician, you will have the opportunity to work for yourself by starting a mobile hair removal service, home-based aesthetics salon -- if allowed in your state -- or a traditional skin spa. Laser hair removal has become a popular alternative to waxing, shaving, and depilatory creams in recent years.
Laser hair removal (LHR) can be safely performed on almost all parts of the body, and is used most often on the legs, back, face, armpits and bikini area. Technicians help to put clients who are embarrassed at ease and also make suggestions for dealing with the mild pain and discomfort that can accompany the procedure. To become certified, they must pass a 100-question written exam developed by experts in the field. Necessary Skills and Qualities. Laser hair removal technicians should be friendly, customer-service oriented individuals who are able to put their clients at ease.
Seminar Tuition: For 2015, tuition to take the examination to become a Professional Laser Hair Removal Technician is $200 – which also includes the optional review course* as well as membership to the Texas Laser Institute – Association of Laser Professionals (TLI-ALP). Texas state mandated course to become a Professional Laser Hair Removal Technician.
Millions of people are embracing the concept of permanently smooth skin that laser hair removal offers. A good laser hair removal technician should see no shortage of business. To become a laser hair removal technician, you need to take the appropriate training classes. You must also become certified to meet legal requirements in most states. The laser hair removal training classes you take should be given by the best in the industry. When you learn from the best, the quality and professionalism of your work will shine through. This, of course, will be attractive to potential clients. 
A job as a laser hair removal technician is quite physical. They often stand for an hour or more during procedures. Careful attention to safety precautions is necessary to protect both the client and the technician from injury. LHR technicians spend much of their day interacting with people. To become certified, they must pass a 100-question written exam developed by experts in the field. Necessary Skills and Qualities. Laser hair removal technicians should be friendly, customer-service oriented individuals who are able to put their clients at ease.