Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of sediments. There are three basic types of sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks such as breccia, conglomerate, sandstone, siltstone, and shale are formed from mechanical weathering debris. Chemical sedimentary rocks, such as rock salt, iron ore, chert, flint, some dolomites, and some limestones, form when dissolved materials precipitate from solution. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant
Sandstone is a common clastic sedimentary rock formed by the compaction and cementation of sand (quartz grains). Conglomerate is another clastic sedimentary rock formed by the cementation of rounded boulders, cobbles, and pebbles. On the other hand, breccia forms from angular boulders, cobbles, and pebbles.
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Clastic rocks are composed of fragments, or clasts, of pre-existing minerals and rock. A clast is a fragment of geological detritus, chunks and smaller grains of rock broken off other rocks by physical weathering. Clastic sedimentary rocks are rocks composed predominantly of broken pieces or clasts of older weathered and eroded rocks. Clastic sediments or sedimentary rocks are classified based on grain size, clast and cementing material (matrix) composition, and texture.
Clastic or detrital sedimentary rocks are made of sediments that are the result of weathering and transport. Chemical rocks are created from chemical precipitation. Biochemical or organic rocks are made up biological remains. A sedimentary structure is a structural feature in a sedimentary rock formed as a result of weathering or transportation. Types of sedimentary structures include: stratification, cross bedding, graded bedding, ripple marks, oscillation marks, mud cracks, raindrops, and trace fossils.
1 Detrital, or clastic-detritus, or fragments, of other rocks (e.g., sandstone); the most important constituents are quartz, calcite, clay minerals (from the weathering of feldspars), rock fragments, and feldspars. 2  They are composed of: 3  clasts: the larger grains. 4  matrix: the finer-grained material surrounding the clasts. 