Arthritis describes more than 100 diseases and conditions that affect the body’s joints and surrounding tissue. Some signs of arthritis include pain, aching, stiffness, and swelling. If you are experiencing these signs and symptoms, talk to your doctor and/or healthcare professional. Arthritis describes more than 100 diseases and conditions that affect the body’s joints and surrounding tissue. Some signs of arthritis. include pain, aching, stiffness, and swelling. If you are experiencing these signs and symptoms, talk to your doctor and/or healthcare.
Arthritis is inflammation of the joints (the points where bones meet) in one or more areas of the body. There are more than 100 different types of arthritis, all of which have different causes and treatment methods. The symptoms of arthritis usually appear gradually but they may also occur suddenly. Arthritis is most commonly seen in adults over the age of 65 but it can also develop in children and teens. The most common symptoms of arthritis involve the joints. Joint pain and stiffness, mostly in the morning, are typical signs, along with swelling of
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that causes inflammation of the joints. Because many symptoms of RA are similar to those of a variety of other diseases, diagnosis can be difficult. A correct diagnosis requires clinical evaluation, X-rays, and a series of laboratory tests. 
Some types of arthritis affect other parts of the body besides the joints. For example, rheumatoid arthritis may cause more generalized symptoms that include weakness, tiring easily, a decreased appetite, weight loss, and a low-grade fever. There are many kinds of arthritis (over 100 types), each with different symptoms and treatments. Even within the different types of arthritis, symptoms can vary.
Types of Arthritis. There are more than 100 different types of arthritis. Some of the more common types include: 1  Osteoarthritis. 2  This is the most common type of arthritis. 3  It occurs when the cartilage covering the end of the bones gradually wears away. 4  Without the protection of the cartilage, the bones begin to rub against each other and the resulting friction leads to pain and swelling. 1
Some of the more common types include: 1  Osteoarthritis. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis. 3  Gout. 1 Osteoarthritis. 2  This is the most common type of arthritis. 3  It occurs when the cartilage covering the end of the bones gradually wears away. 4  Without the protection of the cartilage, the bones begin to rub against each other and the resulting friction leads to pain and swelling.
Joints that bear weight -- such as your knees, hips, feet, and spine-are the most common places it affects. It often comes on gradually over months or years. It causes the pain in the affected joint. But people who have it don’t feel sick or have the fatigue that comes with some other types of arthritis. Osteoarthritis. What it is: More people have this condition than any other form of arthritis. It’s the “wear and tear” that happens when your joints are overused. It usually happens with age, but it can also result from joint injuries or obesity (which puts extra stress on your joints).
There are different types of psoriatic arthritis, depending on the region in which they occur, like only toes, only vertebral column, on both feet, and so on. Reiter’s disease, inflammatory bowel disease, and lyme’s disease, are known to cause rare forms of arthritis, which are similar to rheumatoid arthritis. The different types of arthritis are often confusing for a layman. Even though the word “arthritis”, is frequently associated with stiff and painful joints. Some arthritis can have much more disastrous and disabling consequence
There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. Pain, which can vary in severity, is a common symptom in virtually all types of arthritis. Other symptoms include swelling, joint stiffness and aching around the joint(s). Arthritic disorders like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis can affect other organs in the body, leading to a variety of symptoms. Symptoms may include: