People who show signs of food addiction may also develop a tolerance to food. They eat more and more, only to find that food satisfies them less and less. Scientists believe that food addiction may play an important role in obesity. But normal-weight people may also struggle with food addiction. Their bodies may simply be genetically programmed to better handle the extra calories they take in. Or they may increase their physical activity to compensate for overeating. Do you: 1  End up eating more than planned when you start eating certain foods. 2  Keep eating certain foods even if you're no longer hungry. 3  Eat to the point of feeling ill. 4  Worry about not eating certain types of foods or worry about cutting down on certain types of foods.
Below are five symptoms that may indicate an addiction to food. 5 Food Addiction Symptoms. 1. Food is all you think about. If thinking about eating — or worrying about what you just ate — is getting in the way of your ability to go to work, be social or be a good family member, you may have a problem. 2. If you think you might be addicted to food or have an eating disorder (many times they go hand in hand), get help by consulting your doctor, find a Registered Dietitian in your area who specializes in disordered eating or contact the National Eating Disorders Association's free hotline.
A food addict will have gradually increased their intake over time, particularly of the refined foods that I mentioned above. 2. Tolerance is when you need more and more of a substance to achieve a desired effect. Often the desired effect in food addiction is emotional, such as calm or relief from anxiety or depression. Addiction is also characterized by unsuccessful efforts to cut down. However, just because you have not been successful at dieting does not mean you are a food addict. The difference with food addiction is that dieting attempts are short-lived and end in out-of-control binge eating episodes. 6.
If you think you might have a food addiction, you should seek help from an experienced professional in food or other addictions. This type of expert will likely be a clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, licensed professional counselor, or other licensed mental health professional. A food addict will have gradually increased their intake over time, particularly of the refined foods that I mentioned above. 2. Tolerance is a key symptom of addiction. Tolerance is when you need more and more of a substance to achieve a desired effect. Often the desired effect in food addiction is an emotional state, such as calm or the removal of a negative emotional state such as anxiety or agitation
A food addiction is a behavioral addiction that is characterized by the compulsive over-consumption of high fat or sugary foods – the two types which markedly activate the reward system in humans and other animals – despite adverse consequences. 
If you think you might have a food addiction, you should seek help from an experienced professional in food or other addictions (e.g., clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, licensed professional counselor, or other licensed mental health professional). Food addiction is not hopeless. Addiction is also characterized by unsuccessful efforts to cut down. However, just because you have not been successful at dieting does not mean you are a food addict. The difference with food addiction is that dieting attempts are short-lived and end in out-of-control binge eating episodes. 6.
Food addiction is a real addiction, just like those related to drugs and alcohol. It most often shows up as a compulsive need to eat. This can occur even when you are not physically hungry. Food addiction may be present in people who also struggle with other eating disorders such an anorexia or bulimia. This is especially true for food addiction because we all need to eat. But, food addicts can have symptoms of other conditions like depression, binge eating, or obsessive-compulsive disorder. Like other addicts, they will hide their problem, eating in private and even hiding food.
Due to those uncontrollable cravings, a food addict's quality of life deteriorates when he or she eats sugar, flour or wheat. It can deteriorate physically, emotionally, socially and/or spiritually. If any of the following symptoms are familiar to you, you may be a food addict: A food addict’s spiritual life is affected by a lack of connection to a higher power, an attempt to rely on self-will, self-obsession, and a general feeling of despair. If you have identified with any of these symptoms, Food Addicts Anonymous may be the place for you.