petri dish. noun pe·tri dish \ˈpē-trē-\. : a small shallow dish of thin glass or plastic with a loose cover used especially for cultures in bacteriology. 1. : a small shallow dish of thin glass or plastic with a loose cover used especially for cultures in bacteriology. 2. ADVERTISEMENT. Julius R. Petri †1921 German bacteriologist.
Pe·tri dish. a small, shallow, circular dish made of thin glass or clear plastic with a loosely fitting, overlapping cover used especially in microbiology for the cultivation of microorganisms on solid media; it is frequently referred to as a plate. Google's 'Petri Dish' Doodle honours inventor Julius Richard Petri by Asian News International. but if you were drawing a freehand family tree to depict my immediate kin, you'd have to master the illustration for a. and place it in between the parentals and my Big Bro Fred.
Petri dish. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a shallow circular flat-bottomed dish, often with a fitting cover, used in laboratories, esp for producing cultures of microorganisms. 
Petri, Petri dish-a small shallow plate used especially in microbiology for the cultivation of microorganisms on solid media. Synonym(s): Petri plate. Petri plate-Synonym(s): Petri dish. Petri test-for proteins. Google's 'Petri Dish' Doodle honours inventor Julius Richard Petri by Asian News International. but if you were drawing a freehand family tree to depict my immediate kin, you'd have to master the illustration for a. and place it in between the parentals and my Big Bro Fred.
Definition of PETRI DISH. 1. : a small shallow dish of thin glass or plastic with a loose cover used especially for cultures in bacteriology. 2. ADVERTISEMENT. Julius R. Petri †1921 German bacteriologist.
A shallow, circular, transparent dish with a flat lid, used for the culture of microorganisms. Example sentences. 1  Five pieces of embryogenic tissue were cultured in Petri dishes containing 35 ml maturation medium. 2  Twenty fresh anthers were selected from ten plants at random; ten were kept on dry blotting paper in Petri dishes and the other ten were kept in Petri dishes containing water-saturated blotting paper. 
Open main menu. An agar plate is a Petri dish that contains a growth medium (typically agar plus nutrients) used to culture microorganisms or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens. Selective growth compounds may also be added to the media, such as antibiotics. Agar plate. An agar plate is a Petri dish that contains a growth medium (typically agar plus nutrients) used to culture microorganisms or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
(ETO sterile non embryo toxic non pyrogenic). Supply of Petri dish by Mena Report. You can see a pic of Fred here, taken in the. when he was but a four-cell embryo, although we'll never know which one he was (my money's on the lower one. Petri dish-a shallow dish used to culture bacteria. dish-a piece of dishware normally used as a container for holding or serving food; we gave them a set of dishes for a wedding present.