Pluto (minor-planet designation: 134340 Pluto) is a dwarf planet in the Kuiper belt, a ring of bodies beyond Neptune. It was the first Kuiper belt object to be discovered. It is less massive than the dwarf planet Eris, a trans-Neptunian object discovered in 2005, though Pluto has a larger diameter of 2372 km compared to Eris's approximate diameter of 2326 km. Determinations of Pluto's size had been complicated by its atmosphere, and possible hydrocarbon haze.
Pluto rotates much more slowly than Earth so a day on Pluto is much longer than a day on Earth. A day on Pluto is 6.4 Earth days or 153.3 hours long. 1  Javascript must be enabled to use Cool Cosmos. 2  Learn how. 
Share to: A full rotation of Pluto takes 6 Earth days, 9 hours, and some minutes; so the day part should be about half that amount (3 days and 5 hours), at least on average. 
by Fraser Cain on May 15, 2008. Pluto takes 6 days and 9 hours to complete one rotation, so this is how long a day is on Pluto. You can also look through these books from Amazon.com if you want more information about Pluto. One interesting note is that Pluto’s moon Charon is tidally locked around Pluto. This means that Charon takes 6 days and 9 hours to orbit around Pluto – the same amount of time it takes for a day on Pluto. This means that Charon is always at the same place in the sky when seen from Pluto. You would have the same view from Charon as well
This is because of the huge distance between Pluto and Earth, and it means that it'll take more than 42 minutes for New Horizons to fully transmit an image that's 1024 pixels wide. NASA will release a handful of the most appealing images for public consumption over the next few days. 
This is Pluto in a Minute. Pluto’s orbit actually crosses Neptune’s, so for about two decades of every 248 Earth year orbit Pluto makes around the Sun, it’s inside the orbit of Neptune. 
Launched in 2006, New Horizons is the fastest spacecraft to ever leave Earth. It crossed the orbit of Jupiter the next year and has been traveling nearly a million miles a day—but it still took 9.5 years for the spacecraft to reach Pluto and its moons. Captured from a distance of 2.5 million miles from Pluto, the photo shows mysterious geometric features above the equator, along with sinewy dark splotches. Photograph by NASA/JHUAPL/SWRI In fact, New Horizons is going so fast—more than 30,000 miles per hour—that the spacecraft will pass by Pluto in just three minutes.
Like other Kuiper belt objects, Pluto is primarily made of ice and rock and is relatively small—about one-sixth the mass of the Moon and one-third its volume. It has a moderately eccentric and inclined orbit during which it ranges from 30 to 49 astronomical units or AU (4.4–7.3 billion km) from the Sun. It is less massive than the dwarf planet Eris, a trans-Neptunian object discovered in 2005, though Pluto has a larger diameter of 2372 km compared to Eris's approximate diameter of 2326 km. Determinations of Pluto's size had been complicated by its atmosphere, and possible hydrocarbon haze.
· just now. Report Abuse. 248 days. this is because it takes about a year for pluto to orbit the sun and there is 248 days in a year on pluto.... [Pokerface. · 8 years ago. 
Share to: A full rotation of Pluto takes 6 Earth days, 9 hours, and some minutes; so the day part should be about half that amount (3 days and 5 hours), at least on average. Pluto has … a very large tilt of its axis, similar to Uranus. 