A Learning Log contains your record of your experiences, thoughts, feelings and reflections. One of the most important things it contains is your conclusions about how what you have learnt is relevant to you and how you will use the new information/knowledge/skill/technique in the future. It is a personal record of your own learning. As such it is a document which is unique to you and cannot be ‘right’ or ‘wrong’. A Learning Log helps you to record, structure, think about and reflect upon, plan, develop and evidence
Learning logs are more documentary records of learners' work process (what they're doing); their accomplishments, ideas, or questions. They are a record of learning as it occurs. Teachers can use logs to determine what students are learning, where they are struggling, and how they need help. Learning Log 101 - Formats There are as many formats of learning logs as there are users of them. These include: • Lists • Diaries • Notes • Mind maps • Concept maps • Blogs • Wikis As we are all different the most effective method or template for a learning log is the one that works for the individual.
Learning Log: Guidance Notes. A learning log is a tool that enables you to record and reflect upon each development activity that you undertake to achieve the development objectives you have identified in your Personal Development Plan (PDP).
Learning Logs and Learning Journals. Jump down to the journal/ log templates. Introduction to Learning Logs and Journals. For many professionals we are being asked to keep a learning log. This often is part of a professional development course, or occasionally by our employers. This page outlines approaches to learning logs and provides some useful tools. Learning logs are different from learning journals. Learning Journals usually focus subjectively on personal experience, reactions, and reflections. Learning logs are more documentary records of learners’ work process (what they’re doing); their accomplishments, ideas, or questions.
LEARNING LOG or LEARNING JOURNALS. A Learning Log is basically a log or record or journal of your own learning. It is not necessarily a formal ‘academic’ piece of work. It is a personal record of your own learning. As such it is a document which is unique to you and cannot be ‘right’ or ‘wrong’. A Learning Log helps you to record, structure, think about and reflect upon, plan, develop and evidence your own learning.
Learning logs are a personalized learning resource for children. In the learning logs, the children record their responses to learning challenges set by their teachers. Each log is a unique record of the child's thinking and learning. The learning log can be used at any key stage and for a range of learning activities. It addresses the current creative agenda and has had considerable success with students of a more challenging nature.
Learning Logs. Learning Logs are used for students' reflections on the material they are learning. This type of journal is in common use among scientists and engineers. In the log, students record the process they go through in learning something new, and any questions they may need to have clarified. This allows students to make connections to what they have learned, set goals, and reflect upon their learning process
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A learning log is an educational tool which is designed to enhance the learning experience for children, while facilitating exchanges between students and teachers. Learning logs are used in schools all over the world, and there are a number of different approaches to them. 
The Learning Log. The learning log serves many of the functions of an ongoing laboratory notebook. During most class sessions, students write for about five minutes, often summarizing the class lecture material, noting the key points of a lab session, raising unanswered questions from a preceding class. 
Teachers and students can use Learning Logs as classroom assessment for learning, as students record what they are learning and the questions they still have, and teachers monitor student progress toward mastery of the learning targets in their log entries. This type of journal is in common use among scientists and engineers. In the log, students record the process they go through in learning something new, and any questions they may need to have clarified.