How to Deadlift. How to Deadlift with proper form in 5 simple steps: walk to the bar, grab it, bend your legs until they touch the bar, lift your chest and pull. The Deadlift starts with the barbell on the floor. Pulling from safety pins in the Power Rack is not a Deadlift but a Rack Pull. Setup with the bar over your mid-foot. Bend your knees until your shins hit the bar. If your shoulder-blades are over the bar and mid-foot before you pull, you’ve setup with proper form. There’s nothing you should do differently than men when you Deadlift.
How To Do Trap Bar Deadlifts. 1  Stand inside the frame with your feet as far apart as you can. 2  Point your toes slightly to the sides. 3  Lock your lower back straight and tighten your abs. 4  Take a deep breathe in and bend at the knee until your legs are about parallel to the floor. 
Main Muscle: Quadriceps. 1  For this exercise load a trap bar, also known as a hex bar, to an appropriate weight resting on the ground. 2  Lower your hips, look forward with your head and keep your chest up. 3  Begin the movement by driving through the heels and extend your hips and knees. 4  At the completion of the movement, lower the weight back to the ... 1 For this exercise load a trap bar, also known as a hex bar, to an appropriate weight resting on the ground. 2  Stand in the center of the apparatus and grasp both handles. 3  Lower your hips, look forward with your head and keep your chest up
See http://www.leanape.com/trap-bar-deadl... for a more detailed written guide and lots of other great articles on exercise and weight loss. Dave and Alexis demonstrate how to perform trap bar deadlifts. Done with proper form this is about the best exercise there is for getting a great shape. Tone and develop your legs, your upper body, and, of course, your BUM! If you want a HOTTIE BOTTIE then this is the #1 exercise that you could do. Start light to learn proper form and then build up the weight each week. Never sacrifice your technique though, that way lies injury. The trap bar deadlift technique is much easier than squatting, and a lot safer too. 
How to Deadlift with proper form: pull the bar from the floor until you’ve locked your hips and knees. Keep your lower back neutral. Proper Deadlift form starts with the weight on the floor. Pull the bar until you’ve locked your hips and knees. Setup with the bar over your mid-foot. Bend your knees until your shins hit the bar. If your shoulder-blades are over the bar and mid-foot before you pull, you’ve setup with proper form. There’s nothing you should do differently than men when you Deadlift.
1 Step 3: Squat down and grasp onto the handles of the trap bar. 2  Step 4: Keep head up, back straight, butt down and come up from the squat position. 3  Thrust hips forward at the top of the squat so that your chest is out and you are standing up tall. 4  Step 5: Reverse movement to lower weight back down. How to do the Trap Bar Deadlift: 1  Step 1: Load a trap bar with the desired weight. 2  Step 2: Step inside the circle of the trap bar and stand with feet just outside shoulder-width apart. 3  Step 3: Squat down and grasp onto the handles of the trap bar. 4  Step 4: Keep head up, back straight, butt down and come up from the squat position. 5  Step 5: Reverse ...
Joe Arko demonstrates proper form and execution of the Trap Bar Deadlift. 1  Sports. 
The Trap Bar Deadlift. The technique for a trap bar deadlift is similar to a conventional deadlift. Hinge at your hips to reach down and hold the handles. Your palms will be facing in. Line up your middle fingers with the front of your shins. Extend your spine by engaging your back muscles and lifting your chest. 