Cushing's syndrome is the result of excessive corticosteroids in the body. The main cause is overproduction of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) in the pituitary gland. ACTH causes the adrenal glands to produce corticosteroids, so too much of ACTH means too much of corticosteroids. When adrenal glands produce excessive amounts of certain hormones, they are called overactive.. Symptoms and treatment depend on which hormones are being overproduced: Androgenic steroids (androgen hormones).
The increased adrenal gland activity may be caused by an adrenal gland tumor or by excessive stimulation of the gland. Pituitary hormones stimulate adrenal gland activity. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Adrenal gland hyperfunction is available below. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Adrenal gland hyperfunction: 1  Corticosteroids. 2  Increased libido. 3  Hirsutism. 4  Buffalo hump. 5  Purple striae. 6  more related diseases...».
The list of signs and symptoms mentioned in various sources for Adrenal gland hyperfunction includes the 64 symptoms listed below: 1  Excessive fat on top of back-excess corticosteroids. 2  Increased libido-excess androgenic steroids. 3  Loss of scalp hair-excess corticosteroids. Review the available symptom checkers for these symptoms of Adrenal gland hyperfunction: 1  Excessive fat on top of back -- Symptom Checker. 2  Increased libido -- Symptom Checker. 3  Increased facial hair
Endocrine disorders can result from dysfunction originating in the peripheral endocrine gland itself (primary disorders) or from understimulation or overstimulation by the pituitary (secondary disorders). The disorders can result in hormone overproduction (hyperfunction) or underproduction (hypofunction). Genetic disorders causing hypofunction can result from deletion of a gene or by production of an abnormal hormone. A decrease in hormone production by the peripheral endocrine gland with a resulting increase in production of pituitary regulating hormone can lead to peripheral endocrine gland hyperplasia.
Hyperfunction. Hyperfunction of endocrine glands may result from overstimulation by the pituitary but is most commonly due to hyperplasia or neoplasia of the gland itself. In some cases, cancers from other tissues can produce hormones (ectopic hormone production). Hormone excess also can result from exogenous hormone administration. Genetic disorders causing hypofunction can result from deletion of a gene or by production of an abnormal hormone. A decrease in hormone production by the peripheral endocrine gland with a resulting increase in production of pituitary regulating hormone can lead to peripheral endocrine gland hyperplasia.
parathyroid glands four small endocrine bodies in the region of the thyroid gland; they contain two types of cells: chief cells and oxyphils. Chief cells are the major source of parathyroid hormone (PTH), the secretion of which is dependent on the serum calcium level. 
Adrenal gland hyperfunction is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Adrenal gland hyperfunction: 1  Corticosteroids. 2  Increased libido. 3  Hirsutism. 4  Buffalo hump. 5  Purple striae. 6  more related diseases...».
Overproduction or underproduction of a pituitary hormone will affect the respective end-organ. For example, insufficient production (hyposecretion) of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) in the pituitary gland will cause hypothyroidism, while overproduction (hypersecretion) of TSH will cause hyperthyroidism.
Adrenocortical hyperfunction is a condition where there is an overexpression of products of the adrenal cortex. When cortisol is overproduced, it is called Cushing's syndrome. When aldosterone is overproduced, it is called hyperaldosteronism. 