Files that are stored in ASM disk groups are called ASM files. Each ASM file is contained within a single ASM disk group. Oracle Database communicates with ASM in terms of files. This is identical to the way Oracle Database uses files on any file system.
Each disk group contains the metadata that is required for the management of space in the disk group. Disk group components include disks, files, and allocation units. Files are allocated from disk groups. Any Oracle ASM file is completely contained within a singl
ASM metadata is stored in disk groups-in other words if there are no disk groups there is no ASM metadata. This sounds obvious, but the point is that ASM does not store anything outside of its disk groups.
A disk group consists of multiple disks and is the fundamental object that ASM manages. Each disk group contains the metadata that is required for the management of space in the disk group. Files are allocated from disk groups. Any ASM file is completely contained within a singl
Each ASM disk has ASM metadata. Some of this metadata is relevant to that disk only and some is relevant to the whole disk group. For example, the ASM disk header is relevant to that disk only, but the partnership and status table (PST)
Oracle ASM uses disk group s to store data files; an Oracle ASM disk group is a collection of disks that Oracle ASM manages as a unit. Within a disk group, Oracle ASM exposes a file system interface for Oracle database files.
ASM metadata is stored in disk groups – in metadata blocks. Some ASM metadata is at the fixed position in every ASM disk, and is referred to as physically addressed metadata. Other ASM metadata is organised in files (directories) and is referred to as virtu
Each ASM disk has ASM metadata, with some of this metadata relevant to that disk only and some relevant to the whole disk group. For example, the ASM disk header is relevant to that disk only, while the Partnership and Status Table (PST) is relevant to the whole disk group. Physically addressed metadata.
Files that are stored in Oracle ASM disk groups are called Oracle ASM files. Each Oracle ASM file is contained within a single Oracle ASM disk group. Oracle Database communicates with Oracle ASM in terms of files. This is similar to the way Oracle Database uses files on any file system.