Full Definition of PSYCHOANALYSIS. : a method of analyzing psychic phenomena and treating emotional disorders that involves treatment sessions during which the patient is encouraged to talk freely about personal experiences and especially about early childhood and dreams. — psy·cho·an·a·lyst \-ˈa-nə-list\ noun
Medical Definition of PSYCHOANALYTIC. : of, relating to, or employing psychoanalysis or its principles and techniques. — psy·cho·an·a·lyt·i·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See psychoanalytic defined for kids. 
noun. A system of psychological theory and therapy which aims to treat mental disorders by investigating the interaction of conscious and unconscious elements in the mind and bringing repressed fears and conflicts into the conscious mind by techniques such as dream interpretation and free association. Example sentences.
1. a. The method of psychological therapy originated by Sigmund Freud in which free association, dream interpretation, and analysis of resistance and transference are used to explore repressed or unconscious impulses, anxieties, and internal conflicts, in order to free psychic energy for mature love and work. 
Psychoanalytic literary criticism is literary criticism or literary theory which, in method, concept, or form, is influenced by the tradition of psychoanalysis begun by Sigmund Freud. The object of psychoanalytic literary criticism, at its very simplest, can be the psychoanalysis of the author or of a particularly interesting character in a given work.
In this lesson, we will focus on the definition of psychoanalysis, discuss Freud's theory of psychoanalysis, and delve into the concepts behind his theory. At the end, you can test your knowledge with a quiz. Instructor: Sarah Cobarrubias. 
psychoanalytical criticism. an approach to criticism or a critical technique that applies the principles, theories and practices of psychoanalysis to literature, both in the analysis of the work and of the author. See also Freudianism.
Psychoanalysis is a set of psychological and psychotherapeutic theories and associated techniques, created by Austrian physician Sigmund Freud and stemming partly from the clinical work of Josef Breuer and others. Over time, psychoanalysis has been revised and developed in different directions. 