· just now. Report Abuse. American options can be exercised at any time until expiration, and you have to be prepared for that if it happens. But it is unlikely before expiration, because many option buyers just want to make money on the options and don't really want to own the stock. 
1 In general, equity call options should only be exercised early on the day before an ex-dividend date, and then only for deep in-the-money options. 2  For an American-style put option, early exercise is a possibility for deep in-the-money options. When exercising a call option, the owner of the option purchases the underlying shares (or commodities, fixed interest securities, etc.) at the strike price from the option seller, while for a put option, the owner of the option sells the underlying to the option buyer, again at the strike price. Contents.
Any option, whether an American or European style option, can be sold at any time. When it comes to exercising options, American can be exercised anytime while European can only be exercised at the end of the options life. Yes, most options traders do not hold the option till expiration unless their writers. Most buyers will sell the option prior to expiration. Report Abuse. Yes you can write an option, buy and option, or sell an option anytime up to the expiration date. If you were to hold the option into the expiration date your brokerage is going to exercise that option meaning buy the underly ing stock.
There are two kinds of stock options, American and European. American options can be exercised any time up to and including the expiration date of the option. However, European options can only be exercised on the date of expiration. Expiration dates follow three cycles, January, February and March. The use of option s has increased dramatically over the years as a way to profit from or hedge against the volatile movements of stock prices. Not only can options be traded with stock as the underlying asset, they are also traded on foreign currency, interest rates and various indexes.
American-style exercise means that you can exercise your contract any day that the market is open before the expiration date. The last day to exercise a monthly American-style option is usually the third Friday of the month in which the contract expires (expiration Friday). As the holder of an equity or ETF call option, you can exercise your right to buy the stock throughout the life of the option up to your brokerage firm’s exercise cut-off time on the last trading day.
1 A European option may be exercised only at the expiration date of the option, i.e. at a single pre-defined point in time. 2  An American option on the other hand may be exercised at any time before the expiration date. The key difference between American and European options relates to when the options can be exercised: 1 
A broker or holder of such options may request that they not be exercised by exception. The price of the underlying security used to determine the need for exercise by exception is the price of the regular-hours trade reported last to the OCC at or before 4:01:30 pm ET on the day before expiration. When exercising a call option, the owner of the option purchases the underlying shares (or commodities, fixed interest securities, etc.) at the strike price from the option seller, while for a put option, the owner of the option sells the underlying to the option buyer, again at the strike price. Contents.
American Style vs European Style. American style options can be exercised anytime before the expiration date. European style options on the other hand can only be exercised on the expiration date itself. Currently, all of the stock options traded in the marketplaces are American-Style options. 
European style options: an option contract that can only be exercised on the expiration date. For the most part, share assignment will not occur until after expiration Friday when the agreed upon strike price is below the current market value. This is the nature of American style options as opposed to European style options. American style options: an option contract that may be exercised at any time between the date of purchase (sale) and the expiration date. These are the options that we, as CC writers, deal with.