If you refuse a customer entry or service, make sure it is because of their behaviour and not just an assumption. For example, some people have disabilities which cause them to slur their speech and they might appear intoxicated when sober. If you have had a problem with customers from a particular racial group in the past, and you refuse entry to people from that racial group, it could be unlawful race discrimination. If refusing entry or service, make sure you: 1  base it on the customer's behaviour.
The answer is that you can refuse to serve someone even if they’re in a protected group, but the refusal can’t be arbitrary and you can’t apply it to just one group of people. To avoid being arbitrary, there must be a reason for refusing service and you must be consistent. As we’ve seen, a business can’t just randomly refuse to serve someone. “No shirt, no shoes, no service” on the other hand, is a clear dress code that could also relate to health and safety issues. You usually see the sign in beach towns where tourists of all kinds are apt to be walking around shirtless or shoeless.
We take a look at situations in which a restaurant cannot refuse service to a customer. If you refused service to any of these customer types, you may find yourself explaining your actions to a judge. If you own a business, you occasionally may find that you don't want to serve a customer. (article continues below). Be careful. Refusing to serve a customer can result in legal action if the customer feels they were unjustly discriminated against. In this short article, we examine when it not OK to refuse to serve a customer. Reasons That Cannot Be Used to Justify Refusing to Service a Customer.
Here are three legal ways that you can turn a troublesome customer away. 1. No Flip-Flops in Your Shop. There are federal laws in place that protect a business owner's right to keep your employees in closed-toe shoes. But refusing to serve barefoot customers may be the wrong step.
Last updated on 1 July, 2011 - 13:25. Occasionally you may need to refuse entry or service to a particular customer. Some businesses, such as those with liquor licences, are bound by strict rules about who and when they can serve. Licensed venues, for example, have a right to refuse entry to people under 18. If you have had a problem with customers from a particular racial group in the past, and you refuse entry to people from that racial group, it could be unlawful race discrimination. If refusing entry or service, make sure you: 1  base it on the customer's behaviour.
Thus, a business generally can’t refuse service based on a person’s race, religion, sex, or other protected characteristics. On the other hand, they can refuse service in situations such as: 1  The customer threatens to harm employees or other patrons. 2  The customer’s presence may create an issue of safety or health hazards. 3  The business has reached maximum capacity. 4  The business is not open (i.e., not normal business hours). 
Best Answer: It's your business. As long as you are not refusing service to a customer for reasons protected by law (race,religion, ect) you can tell this gal to pack sand. But before you do, think of the state of mind this woman must have been in when she called.
Report Abuse. Wow what a *****. You absolutely do have the right to refuse service (although it is best you contact the owner/manager) especially in a situation when you are being insulted. Your quote its my wish that you experience a death in your family can be seen as a threat. So the police are on your side. As long as you are not refusing service to a customer for reasons protected by law (race,religion, ect) you can tell this gal to pack sand. But before you do, think of the state of mind this woman must have been in when she called.