Best Answer: It depends on where you're at. A general price would be $50-150+ for a 6-8 week class. You might want to look at the community education classes held at your college. Many times there are dog training classes held as a part of community ed classes. 
1 Amazon has a selection of dog training books starting under $10. 2  Some shelters offer low-cost training, starting at about $35 and up for several weeks of classes. 3  The cost is usually lower for a dog adopted from that shelter. 4  Some boarding training programs offer a discount for a second dog from the same household. 1 Group classes at a local community center, dog daycare or pet store usually cost from $40 to $125 or more for four to eight weekly one-hour sessions. 2  Puppy classes usually cost less than adult dog classes or classes specifically geared toward dogs with behavior issues
This service will offer the BEST training results for the dog. Range of price is OFTEN determined by location of customers home and dogs specific training requirements. — 5wk, 1hr per week puppy/beginner class (range is between $525-725). — 10wk, 1hr per week puppy/beginner/advanced class (range is between $890-$1200). There are many ways that phoenix dog trainers arrive at their prices. I see the average cost in az dog training At Home services at about $125 per hour for a training package.
— daily board rate (range is between $65-85). There are many ways that phoenix dog trainers arrive at their prices. I see the average cost in az dog training At Home services at about $125 per hour for a training package. Doggie Steps Dog Training is here to help with EVERY customers budget, and will do our best to accommodate every customers individual dog training case
Dog Training Cost. 1  Group classes at a local community center, dog daycare or pet store usually cost from $40 to $125 or more for four to eight weekly one-hour sessions. 1 Group classes at a local community center, dog daycare or pet store usually cost from $40 to $125 or more for four to eight weekly one-hour sessions. 2  Puppy classes usually cost less than adult dog classes or classes specifically geared toward dogs with behavior issue
Kelly Giffear and Brittany Scott projected yearly costs for raising small, medium, large and giant breeds. The average cost for the first year of raising small dogs was $2674; medium dogs on the average cost $2889; the cost for large dogs is $3239 and giant breeds such as Great Danes have an annual cost of $3536. The average first year cost across all sizes was $3085. Veterinary costs were $650 per year and included all lab work plus are for one serious illness per year was added into the figures. According to Giffear and Scott, the average lifetime cost of raising a dog is $23,410. These numbers don’t include training classes, so don’t forget to add in CGC classes, obedience, agility and agility equipment and private lessons if you need them
You can also expect to pay more in larger cities than in smaller markets. The average cost of in-home training ranges from $75 to $125, no matter where you live. You might find lower prices if you live in a small town or if you find a new trainer, and you also may have to pay more for an experienced trainer. 
1 Puppy classes usually cost less than adult dog classes or classes specifically geared toward dogs with behavior issues. 2  Private classes with a trainer, which could be at the client's home or at the trainer's place of business, usually cost from $30 to $100 per hour-long session -- so about $240 to $600 for six sessions. 1 Group classes at a local community center, dog daycare or pet store usually cost from $40 to $125 or more for four to eight weekly one-hour sessions. 2  Puppy classes usually cost less than adult dog classes or classes specifically geared toward dogs with behavior issue