Thyroid gland. A number of conditions, including Graves' disease, toxic adenoma, Plummer's disease (toxic multinodular goiter) and thyroiditis, can cause hyperthyroidism. Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland situated at the base of your neck, just below your Adam's apple. 1 An adenoma is a part of the gland that has walled itself off from the rest of the gland, forming noncancerous (benign) lumps that may cause an enlargement of the thyroid. 2  Not all adenomas produce excess T-4, and doctors aren't sure what causes some to begin producing too much hormone. 3  Thyroiditis.
Plummer's Disease is a condition where there is a single hyperfunctioning nodule producing excess thyroid hormone. Henry Plummer in 1913 described a clinically distinct form of thyrotoxicosis due to solitary or multiple toxic nodules in the thyroid. I restrict the term to a solitary a toxic nodule. This nodule is an adenoma (a benign tumour).
Goiter. Goiter is an enlargement of the thyroid gland. The resulting bulge on the neck may become extremely large, but most simple goiters are brought under control before this happens. Occasionally a simple goiter may cause some difficulty in breathing and swallowing. One or more nodules can be recognised. The most frequent cause of multinodular goitre is iodine deficiency. Non‐toxic goitre means that the nodules do not secret thyroid hormones in an uncontrolled way. Total thyroidectomy is an operation that involves the surgical removal of the whol
Plummer’s disease is an illness that is caused by the thyroid gland which contains a small round mass and this then causes too much thyroid hormone and then that is why the patient can contract Plummer’s disease. There are a lot of disease that are all to do with the thyroid gland and they are all very horrible disease that can cause a lot of problems for the patient and they can feel very down and depressed when it comes to this disease being diagnosed in the patient.
It is a common cause of hyperthyroidism in which there is excess production of thyroid hormones from functionally autonomous thyroid nodules, which do not require stimulation from thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). (Decreased iodine leads to decreased thyroid hormone.) However, iodine deficiency can cause goitre (thyroid enlargement); within a goitre, nodules can develop. Risk factors for toxic multinodular goiter include individuals over 60 years of age and being female.
The clinical features of a patient with Plummer's Disease are similar to a patient with Toxic Multinodular Goitre except that there is usually only one nodule. The nodule is not always readily palpable. Henry Plummer in 1913 described a clinically distinct form of thyrotoxicosis due to solitary or multiple toxic nodules in the thyroid. I restrict the term to a solitary a toxic nodule. This nodule is an adenoma (a benign tumour).
Toxic multinodular goiter (also known as toxic nodular goiter, toxic nodular struma, or Plummer's disease) is a multinodular goiter associated with a hyperthyroidism. (Decreased iodine leads to decreased thyroid hormone.) However, iodine deficiency can cause goitre (thyroid enlargement); within a goitre, nodules can develop. Risk factors for toxic multinodular goiter include individuals over 60 years of age and being female.
Plummer's Disease. Toxic Nodular Goiter (or Plummer's Disease is the other name for a toxic nodular goiter) is less common than Graves' disease, and prevalence are increases with age and in the presence of iodine deficiency. Disease is usually progresses. The benefits of the surgery would include a quick recovery from the disease, absence of toxic effect from medical therapy or radioactive iodine therapy. The downside to surgical therapy would include small, 1% in a hands of experience surgeon, rate of complications and presence of a small scar.
[Source]. Plummer's disease is a form of toxic goiter that leads to hyperthyroidism. It presents as a single nodule or adenoma on the thyroid gland which produces excess thyroid hormone. It is one of the most common forms of hyperthyroidism. It is usually the result of ongoing iodine deficiency. 