Type Appendix into a blank document on your word-processing software. If there is more than one appendix, add A, B, C, and so on to each appendix in the order in which it appears. If there's only one appendix, you do not need to add a letter. Double-space after this line. Type the title of the appendix. For example, if your paper is about the Spanish Inquisition, the title of one appendix might be List of Spanish Monarchs in the Spanish Inquisition.. Double-space after this line. Begin each new appendix on a new page. 
Examples of items you might have in an appendix include mathematical proofs, lists of words, the questionnaire used in the research, a detailed description of an apparatus used in the research, etc. Format of appendices. Your paper may have more than one appendix. Usually, each distinct item has its own appendix. If your paper only has one appendix, label it Appendix (without quotes.) If there is more than one appendix, label them Appendix A, Appendix B, etc. (without quotes) in the order that each item appears in the paper.
It depends. If you have only one, title it Appendix. If you have more than one, they will be titled Appendix A, Appendix B, Appendix C, and so on. You decide which is Appendix A or B or C by the order in which they are referred to in your paper. 
An appendix compiles extra information related to the content of a paper. The appendix does not contain the main thesis or major points of a paper; rather, it presents resources for the reader for further reading or further elaborates on related but nonessential topics. Writers might be tempted to use appendices as a place to dump all of their research and notes, but this method does not help the overall quality of the paper itself. Writers should discard any information in an appendix that diverges too much from the subject
1 If your appendices use information from an outside source, cite it parenthetically within the text of the appendix and include the reference in the main reference list for the paper (do not create a separate reference list). 1 A section at the end of a paper that includes information that is too detailed for the text of the paper itself and would burden the reader or be distracting, or inappropriate (APA, 2010, p. 38-9). 2  The content in the appendices should be easily presented in print format (APA, 2010, p. 39). 3  Examples:
Answer. The appendix is supplemental material added to a paper to aid the reader in understanding your points, but can't easily be worked into the text. If you choose to include an appendix in your paper, it should be at the end of your paper after the References page. When you refer to the appendix in your paper, refer to it as either Appendix or Appendix A. The parts of your paper should appear in this order:
Answer. The appendix (if required) goes after the References page. To see the APA directions for setting up an appendix, link to this example paper from the Online Writing Lab (OWL) at Purdue. Scroll down and Appendix A starts on page 10 and has directions on the page. Thank you for using ASK US. Please contact your Campus Library/ARC if you have additional questions.
1 You may have more than one appendix (aka appendices). 2  Each appendix should deal with a separate topic. 3  Each appendix must be referred to by name (aka Appendix A) in the text of the paper. 4  To refer to the Appendix within your text, write, (see Appendix A) at the end of the sentence in parentheses. 1 A section at the end of a paper that includes information that is too detailed for the text of the paper itself and would burden the reader or be distracting, or inappropriate (APA, 2010, p. 38-9). 2  The content in the appendices should be easily presented in print format (APA, 2010, p. 39). 3  Examples:
In an APA paper appendix is the non-compulsory page. It is used to provide unissued tests. In the APA formatting style each works cited appendix should seem on each page. Thes … e appendixes can be distinguished by referring Appendix 1, Appendix 2 and so on. 