Intuition Peak on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named in appreciation of the role of scientific intuition for the advancement of human knowledge. In his book Meditations on first philosophy, Descartes refers to an intuition as a preexisting knowledge gained through rational reasoning or discovering truth of a thing through thinking about it, this definition is commonly referred to as rational intuition.
The right brain is popularly associated with intuitive processes such as aesthetic or generally creative abilities. Some scientists have contended that intuition is associated with innovation in scientific discovery. In his book Meditations on first philosophy, Descartes refers to an intuition as a preexisting knowledge gained through rational reasoning or discovering truth of a thing through thinking about it, this definition is commonly referred to as rational intuition.
INTUITION is a right brain process that taps into subconscious information to provide guidance about everyday life. By using your intuition, you can make better decisions that consistently improve your life. People often experience intuition as: 
So it seems that they have a greater natural ability to use their intuition. And I'm suggesting that part of their natural strategy is a heightened awareness of themselves and what's going on in their system. Some folks that are easy to observe with this in mind are sports people. The first group of answers use other similar, related but also vague terms such as hunches, sixth sense, instincts and insight. The second group points at an answer by describing what it is not. It is not a conscious process.
All of the above! So it's possible that intuition is a combination of all these contradictory things. It's natural, but can be improved by learning. It's something that you're born with, but unless it's used and practised you won't have access to the power of your intuition. The first group of answers use other similar, related but also vague terms such as hunches, sixth sense, instincts and insight. The second group points at an answer by describing what it is not. It is not a conscious process.
On this site you can find out about intuition-what it is, where it comes from, whether it's magical, mystical, or a human capacity like IQ. The site is designed to be useful different age groups and levels of understanding. 
Intuition, a phenomenon of the mind, describes the ability to acquire knowledge without inference or the use of reason. In his book Meditations on first philosophy, Descartes refers to an intuition as a preexisting knowledge gained through rational reasoning or discovering truth of a thing through thinking about it, this definition is commonly referred to as rational intuition.
Intuition is knowing something without being able to explain how you came to that conclusion rationally. It's that mysterious gut feeling or instinct that often turns out to be right, in retrospect. When you've whittled down your options and are stuck at a crossroads, getting in touch with your intuition can help. 
The answer to this question is yes and no. Your purest intuitions are always right but those tinged by your own thoughts and emotions may only be partially correct or even completely wrong. With practice, you can learn to assess your intuitive experiences and identify when they are more likely to be right. Tune into its response when you have an intuition. People describe feeling the following with true intuition: openness; relaxation; joy; a sense of connection or belonging; lack of doubt; clarity; surprise; awe; excitement; fulfillment; inspiration; or brightness. Naturally, their curiosity is heightened.
If you are like many people, you may already have a good idea what intuition is and the role it plays in your life. Perhaps you have had experiences like these: Intuition is only experienced by certain gifted people. Actually, intuition is a normal human experience and is reported in cultures throughout the world. However most people don't learn about what intuition is and how to use it, so they are not aware how it works in their life.