In short, the volume of blood in a human body is around five liters and this may drop due to certain medical conditions, surgery, injuries, etc. It is said that a blood loss of up to 15% of the total volume can be tolerated by a healthy adult, without any serious signs and symptoms. An average human being can lose a maximum of 30 to 40% of the total blood volume and stay alive, provided he is given immediate treatment. Blood carries out many important functions in the body, like transporting nutrients and oxygen to the body cells. It also takes away the waste materials from the cells.
Scientists estimate the volume of blood in a human body to be approximately 7 percent of body weight. An average adult body with a weight of 150 to 180 pounds will contain approximately 4.7 to 5.5 liters (1.2 to 1.5 gallons) of blood. An average child with a body weight of 80 pounds will have approximately half the amount of blood as an adult. Blood carries out many critical functions in the body.
❥ Did you know that about seven to eight percent of the human body weight is made up of blood? A healthy adult with a body weight of 60 kilograms has approximately 4.2 to 4.8 liters of blood. An average human being can lose a maximum of 30 to 40% of the total blood volume and stay alive, provided he is given immediate treatment. Blood carries out many important functions in the body, like transporting nutrients and oxygen to the body cells. It also takes away the waste materials from the cells.
The amount of blood in a human body varies, depending on factors such as age, sex, overall health and even where a person lives. For example, men tend to have more blood than women of comparable size and weight. An average adult body with a weight of 150 to 180 pounds will contain approximately 4.7 to 5.5 liters (1.2 to 1.5 gallons) of blood. An average child with a body weight of 80 pounds will have approximately half the amount of blood as an adult. Blood carries out many critical functions in the body.
Blood accounts for 7% of the human body weight, with an average density of approximately 1060 kg/m 3, very close to pure water's density of 1000 kg/m 3. The average adult has a blood volume of roughly 5 litres (11 US pt), which is composed of plasma and several kinds of cells. About 55% of blood is blood plasma, a fluid that is the blood's liquid medium, which by itself is straw-yellow in color. The blood plasma volume totals of 2.7–3.0 liters (2.8–3.2 quarts) in an average human.
The blood also carries away waste products. The adult human body contains approximately 5 liters (5.3 quarts) of blood; it makes up 7 to 8 percent of a person's body weight. Approximately 2.75 to 3 liters of blood is plasma and the rest is the cellular portion. Plasma is the liquid portion of the blood. The adult human body contains approximately 5 liters (5.3 quarts) of blood; it makes up 7 to 8 percent of a person's body weight. Approximately 2.75 to 3 liters of blood is plasma and the rest is the cellular portion
Human blood consists of a yellowish fluid called plasma, in which the blood cells are suspended. 45% of the volume of blood is composed of red blood cells, 54.3% is plasma and the remaining 0.7% constitutes white blood cells. An average human being can lose a maximum of 30 to 40% of the total blood volume and stay alive, provided he is given immediate treatment. Blood carries out many important functions in the body, like transporting nutrients and oxygen to the body cells. It also takes away the waste materials from the cells.
Blood makes up about 7% of your body's weight. The average adult has 10 pints of blood in his or her body. One unit of blood is roughly the equivalent of one pint. This proportion is much greater in children, and slightly different in men and women. Men, on average, have 8 to 10 pints, while women have 5 to 8 pints. 8-12 pints depending on the size of the person.   Actually about 5 litre of blood is present in a normal human body   It varies by age and weight, but the standard a … nswer is 6 liters,   or about a gallon and a half. + 24 others found this useful. Emily Staley.