The Schengen Area (English pronunciation: /ˈʃɛŋən/) is the area comprising 26 European countries that have abolished passport and any other type of border control at their common borders, also referred to as internal borders. The Area is named after the Schengen Agreement. Countries in the Schengen Area have eliminated internal border controls with the other Schengen members and strengthened external border controls with non-Schengen states.
The visa policy of the Schengen Area is set by the European Union and applies to the Schengen Area and to other EU member states without opt-outs. The regular application fee for a short-stay Schengen visa is set at €60. A reduced fee of €35 is paid by children of age 6 to 11, and by nationals of Visa Facilitation Agreement countries (Bosnia-Herzegovina, Georgia, Kosovo, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Russia, Serbia, and Ukraine).
The Schengen Area consists of 22 European Union member states and four non-members: Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus and Romania are not yet part of the Schengen Area, but nonetheless have a visa policy that is based on the Schengen acquis. The regular application fee for a short-stay Schengen visa is set at €60. A reduced fee of €35 is paid by children of age 6 to 11, and by nationals of Visa Facilitation Agreement countries (Bosnia-Herzegovina, Georgia, Kosovo, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Russia, Serbia, and Ukraine).
The holder of a long-stay visa or a residence permit issued by a Schengen country is entitled to move freely within the other states which comprise the Schengen Area for a period of up to 90 days in any 180 days. The regular application fee for a short-stay Schengen visa is set at €60. A reduced fee of €35 is paid by children of age 6 to 11, and by nationals of Visa Facilitation Agreement countries (Bosnia-Herzegovina, Georgia, Kosovo, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Russia, Serbia, and Ukraine).
The member countries of the Schengen zone are Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland. Tourist, visitors, and business visa (type C) are the most common used visa. They are valid for up to 90 days in a 6 months period and may either grant single, double or multiple entries to the Schengen zone. Tourist and visitors visa are mostly issued as single entry visa based on the itinerary provide
The Schengen visa allows the holder to a total stay of up to 90 days within a period of 6 months for tourist or business purposes. If you get a multiple entry Schengen visa, you may leave and return any number of times within the 180-day period, but the combined stay within the region must not total more than 90 days. You need to apply for a Schengen visa if you are a citizen of a country whose citizens are subject to the visa requirement.
A Schengen visa allows the holder to travel freely within the Schengen countries for a maximum stay of up to 90 days in a 6 month period. The first step in the application process is to Apply the Schengen Application Guide. Schengen zone member states. Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland.
Schengen visa is the document issued by the appropriate authorities to the interested party for visiting/travelling in and within the Schengen Area. The Schengen Area is comprised of 26 countries that have agreed to allow free movement of their citizens within this area as a single country. When applying for a Schengen visa there is a non-refundable mandatory visa fee every applicant must pay. The visa costs vary depending on the type of visa and age of the applicant as well as some other exceptions stated in the text.
The Schengen Visa has made traveling between its 26 member countries much easier and less bureaucratic. Traveling on a Schengen Visa means that the visa holder can travel to any (or all) member countries using one single visa, thus avoiding the hassle and expense of obtaining individual visas for each country. This is particularly beneficial for persons who wish to visit several European countries on the same trip. Schengen zone member states. Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland.