These blood cells (which are also called corpuscles or  formed elements ) consist of erythrocytes (red blood cells, RBCs), leukocytes (white blood cells), and thrombocytes (platelets). By volume, the red blood cells constitute about 45% of whole blood, the plasma about 54.3%, and white cells about 0.7%. Albumin is the main protein in plasma, and it functions to regulate the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. The blood cells are mainly red blood cells (also called RBCs or erythrocytes), white blood cells (also called WBCs or leukocytes) and platelets.
In vertebrates, the various cells of blood are made in the bone marrow in a process called hematopoiesis, which includes erythropoiesis, the production of red blood cells; and myelopoiesis, the production of white blood cells and platelets. Albumin is the main protein in plasma, and it functions to regulate the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. The blood cells are mainly red blood cells (also called RBCs or erythrocytes), white blood cells (also called WBCs or leukocytes)
Erythrocytes, or red blood cells, are the most abundant of the  formed elements of the blood. The other formed elements are  leukocytes (white blood cells) and thrombocytes … (platelets). erythrocytes (red blood cells) Erythrocytes (red blood cells or RBCs) platelets, for about 250,000-500,000 per mm3 of blood.
The difference in concentration of various constituents in the plasma and interstitial fluid ensures that the constituents will. a)Be able to chemically react at the appropriate place. Which are characteristic of type O ... 6. Which are characteristic of ... 7. The type of leukocyte that is very ... 8. The type of leukocyte that will migrate ... 9. The process of producing the formed ... 10. The smallest and most abundant plasma ..
Formed Elements. The formed elements in blood include erythrocytes (red blood cells or RBCs), leukocytes (white blood cells or WBCs), and thrombocytes (platelets) (Figure 19.2). The percentage of total blood volume occupied by red blood cells is called the hematocrit.
A megakaryocyte (mega- + karyo- + -cyte, large-nucleus cell) is a large bone marrow cell with a lobulated nucleus responsible for the production of blood thrombocytes (platelets), which are necessary for normal blood clotting. 
Blood Cell Lineage. The production of formed elements, or blood cells, is called hemopoiesis. Before birth, hemopoiesis occurs primarily in the liver and spleen, but some cells develop in the thymus, lymph nodes, and red bone marrow. After birth, most production is limited to red bone marrow in specific regions, but some white blood cells are produced in lymphoid tissue. All types of formed elements develop from a single cell type — stem cell (pleuripotential cells or hemocytoblasts).
Blood Formed Elements. The formed elements are cells, cell remnants, and cell fragments in the blood. Red blood cells (RBCs or erythrocytes) make up more than 95% of the formed elements. Because they lack a nucleus and organelles, most RBCs in the blood stream are not fully functional cells. Most of the dissolved solutes are proteins. The remaining solutes are a mixture of nutrients, electrolytes, nitrogenous wastes, respiratory gases, and regulatory compounds. Also included in the formed elements are five types of white blood cells (WBCs or leukocytes). They are part of the immune system and that helps protect the body from foreign invaders. The WBCs are identified and classified based on their stained appearance