Northern crayfish (Orconectes virilis). The northern crayfish is a medium to large crayfish and is distinguished from signal and red swamp crayfish by broad flattened tuberculate (i.e., large tubercules) claws, and a olive‐brown body that is dappled with dark brown, and abdominal segments with dark brown medial spots. Rusty crayfish (Orconectes rusticus).
1 The process is called molting. 2  A crayfish reaches adult size in 3-4 months & its life span is 3-8 years long. 3  They grow old quickly. 4  The crayfish will either mate and start the process over again, or it will die. 
Two of the Australian edible crayfish are the common yabby (C. destructor) and the red claw (C. quadricarinatus). The common yabby is closest in size to the North American species, but is not considered to be commercially viable outside Australia because of its relatively slow growth and small size. Today, crayfish is consumed mainly boiled, similarly to crayfish dishes in other parts of the world, or prepared with typically Mexican sauces and condiments, particularly in central and southern Mexico. Traditional preparations include soups, tacos and cocktails similar to shrimp dishes.
They breathe through feather-like gills and are found in bodies of water. Some species are found in brooks and streams where there is fresh water running, while others thrive in swamps, ditches, and rice paddies. Most crayfish cannot tolerate polluted water, although some species such as Procambarus clarkii are hardier. In Australia many of the better-known crayfish are of the genus Cherax, and include the marron from Western Australia (now believed to be two species, Cherax tenuimanus and C. cainii), red-claw crayfish (Cherax quadricarinatus), common yabby (Cherax destructor) and western yabby (Cherax preissii).
Green Sand Molding The most common method used to make metal castings is green sand molding. In this process, granular refractory sand is coated with a mixture of bentonite clay, water and, in some cases, other additives (Fig. 
Crayfish, also known as crawfish, crawdads, freshwater lobsters, or mudbugs, are freshwater crustaceans resembling small lobsters, to which they are related; taxonomically, they are members of the superfamilies Astacoidea and Parastacoidea. In Australia many of the better-known crayfish are of the genus Cherax, and include the marron from Western Australia (now believed to be two species, Cherax tenuimanus and C. cainii), red-claw crayfish (Cherax quadricarinatus), common yabby (Cherax destructor) and western yabby (Cherax preissii).
Another favourite is to suck the head of the crayfish, as seasoning and flavour can collect in the fat of the boiled interior. A common myth is that a crayfish with a straight tail died before it was boiled and is not safe to eat. In reality, crayfish that died before boiling can have curled tails as well as straight, as can those that were alive, and may very well be fine to eat. Today, crayfish is consumed mainly boiled, similarly to crayfish dishes in other parts of the world, or prepared with typically Mexican sauces and condiments, particularly in central and southern Mexico. Traditional preparations include soups, tacos and cocktails similar to shrimp dishes.
The lifecycle of the crayfish doesn’t last very long. The males will usually die after mating, at about two years old. The females die after the eggs are fertilized and laid, also approximately two years. Some will live a while longer, but none are known to have survived beyond their fourth spring. 
During these early days many are eaten by fish, insects, and other crayfish, but some always survive to fulfill their destiny. Crayfish don't live very long. The males usually die after mating when they are about 2 years old. The females die after their young hatch, also at about 2 years of age. Crayfish occasionally live longer, but it's thought that none survive beyond their 4th year. See us every Saturday and Sunday on GAYELLE at 9.00am, At last we own TV.
In the Eastern United States, crayfish is more common in the north, while crawdad is heard more in central and southwestern regions, and crawfish further south, although there are considerable overlaps. The study of crayfish is called astacology. In Australia many of the better-known crayfish are of the genus Cherax, and include the marron from Western Australia (now believed to be two species, Cherax tenuimanus and C. cainii), red-claw crayfish (Cherax quadricarinatus), common yabby (Cherax destructor) and western yabby (Cherax preissii).