This is a common term you may encounter reading your MRI report. Diffuse cervical bulge means a generalized disc bulge of one of spinal discs of the neck (cervical spine). This bulging material may contact or pinch the thecal sac or nerve roots. There are a variety of symptoms in a case like the one above. 
1 A diffuse disc bulge refers to one of the discs in your spine. 2  The discs separate the bones of your spine, called vertebrae, and provide cushion support as well as motion to the vertebrae. 1 At each level in the spine where there is a disc, right and left nerve roots come out to innervate tissues in the body. 2  The holes that they come out are called neural foramina. 3  This statement means that the size, or diameter, of those holes has been minimally narrowed by this diffuse disc bulge.
1- Diffuse posterior annular bulge with posterocentral annular tear at L4-L5 which is association with flaval hypertrophy causes stenosis of centralcanal and moderate bilateral foraminall narrowing and compression of cauda equina and bilateral traversing nerve roots. 2-L4-L5 and L5-S1 disc desiccation. 3.At L5-S1 level,there is diffuse posterior annular bulge and tear with central right paracentral disc herniation which is causing narrowing of central canal and bilateral lateral neural foramen and it is compressing bilateral exiting nerve roots. So,main findings are at L4-5 and L5-S1 level.
1 effacing the thecal sac means that that diffuse disc bulge is contacting the thecal sac such that being able to see that sac is obscured by the diffuse disc bulge. 2  Thecal sac refers to the the sac which is a membrane (called dura mater) that contains the spinal cord and cerebrospinal fluid. 1 At each level in the spine where there is a disc, right and left nerve roots come out to innervate tissues in the body. 2  The holes that they come out are called neural foramina. 3  This statement means that the size, or diameter, of those holes has been minimally narrowed by this diffuse disc bulge.
1 Thecal sac refers to the the sac which is a membrane (called dura mater) that contains the spinal cord and cerebrospinal fluid. 2  All this statement implies is that the disc bulge is contacting the membrane that contains the spinal cord.  3 minimal narrowing of the neuro foramina - probably you meant neural foramina. 1 At each level in the spine where there is a disc, right and left nerve roots come out to innervate tissues in the body. 2  The holes that they come out are called neural foramina. 3  This statement means that the size, or diameter, of those holes has been minimally narrowed by this diffuse disc bulge.
Resolved Question: What does it mean: diffuse posterior disc bulge with superimposed tiny posterior central disc protrusion an associated mild to moderate bilateral facet joint degeneration and ligamentum flavum redundancy. L5-S1 small diffuse posterior disc bulge with mild bilateral facet joint degeneration, mild right and moderate to severe left neural foraminal stenosis, contact/involvement of the exiting left L5 nerve root in the neural foramen is not entirely exculded. Submitted: 4 years ago. Category: Medical.
A posterior bulging disc is a medical term for an intervertebral disc that has bulged toward the “posterior,” or back, of the spinal column. Posterior bulging discs are relatively common, as abnormal disc bulges tend to occur when people are bending forward. A posterior bulging disc can be located in any segment of the spinal column that has discs. For instance: 1  A cervical bulging disc would be located in the neck area, or cervical region.