No, ICMP is not a routing protocol. ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) is used by the Internet Protocol suite (IP) to send error and status messages. It is mainly … used for diagnostics. Ping and traceroute are two tools that use ICMP.   ICPM is used by routing protocols, for routing advertisements and router discovery. 
The Internet Control Message Protocol is part of the Internet Protocol Suite, as defined in RFC 792. ICMP messages are typically used for diagnostic or control purposes or generated in response to errors in IP operations (as specified in RFC 1122). It is used by network devices, like routers, to send error messages indicating, for example, that a requested service is not available or that a host or router could not be reached. ICMP can also be used to relay query messages. It is assigned protocol number 1.
It seems questions about icmp having port numbers are recurrent. Check out these links for mote details: https://learningnetwork.cisco.com/thread/31935. https://learningnetwork.cisco.com/thread/39021. As for TCP and UDP por numbers, they range from 0 to 65535. You can't use port zero though. I agree with Rolf Fischer. 
Definition: ICMP is a network protocol useful in Internet Protocol (IP) network management and administration. ICMP is a required element of IP implementations. ICMP is a control protocol, meaning that it does not carry application data, but rather information about the status of the network itself. ICMP can be used to report:
Source Quench requests that the sender decrease the rate of messages sent to a router or host. This message may be generated if a router or host does not have sufficient buffer space to process the request, or may occur if the router or host buffer is approaching its limit. It is used by network devices, like routers, to send error messages indicating, for example, that a requested service is not available or that a host or router could not be reached. ICMP can also be used to relay query messages. It is assigned protocol number 1.
Introduction. Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is used to communicate to the original source, the errors encountered while routing the packets, and exercise control on the traffic. This document discusses ICMP redirects and when redirects happen in a network. 
Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is an error reporting and diagnostic utility and is considered a required part of any IP implementation. Understanding ICMP and knowing what can possibly generate a specific type of ICMP is useful in diagnosing network problems. Back to the top | Give Feedback. The TYPES defined are: This is the ICMP most used to test IP connectivity commonly known as PING. The Echo Request ICMP will have a Type field of 8 and a Code field of 0. Echo Replies have a Type field of 0 and a Code field of 0. When a packet is undeliverable, a Destination Unreachable, Type 3, ICMP is generated. Type 3 ICMPs can have a Code value of 0 to 15: An ICMP Source Quench message has a Type field of 4 and Code 0. Source Quench messages are sent when the destination is unable to process traffic as fast as the source is sending it
ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) is an error-reporting protocol network devices like routers use to generate error messages to the source IP address when network problems prevent delivery of IP packets. 1 The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) summarizes the 11 ICMP error messages. 2  The ICMP is formally described in RFC 792. 3  RFC 1812, Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers, includes requirements relating to the use of ICMP messages.
The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is one of the main protocols of the Internet Protocol Suite. It is used by network devices, like routers, to send error messages indicating, for example, that a requested service is not available or that a host or router could not be reached. ICMP can also be used to relay query messages. It is assigned protocol number 1.