Associated with Anzac Day on April 25, the biscuit is a crunchy commemoration of the members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who fought in World War I. It's Australian food with a back story. The Anzac biscuit was made by wives during the war and sent to soldiers, because the basic ingredients (rolled oats, flour, sugar, desiccated coconut, golden syrup, butter, bicarbonate of soda and water) were able to keep for a long time, even on long boat journeys. A favorite Australian food, the delectable bite-sized treat is made up of chewy caramel coated in milk chocolate. It's renowned for yellow and blue wrapping scribed with movie trivia, a marketing move that has endeared the treat to DVD groupies and movie goers.
Before the arrival of the First Fleet of Europeans at Sydney in 1788, indigenous Australians survived off the often unique native flora and fauna of the Australian bush, for between 40,000 and 60,000 years. Hunting of kangaroo, wallaby and emu was common. The Australian Wine Industry is the fourth largest exporter of wine around the world, with 760 million litres a year to a large international export market and contributes $5.5 billion per annum to the nation's economy.
Australian's food senses were assaulted with a new range of smells, tastes and types of food at the end of the Second World War in 1945. A large influx of Europeans migrated to Australia, especially from the Mediterranean – Italy, Greece, Turkey and Lebanon – as well as from the Baltic states and Russia. The consumption of beer as Australia's most popular alcoholic drink was later overtaken by wine in the 1970s. Wines have a long history in Australia with vines planted to yield grapes for wine in 1791, and exports of Australian wine beginning in 1822.
Australia has a rich variety of foods and drinks, adopted and adapted since colonisation and developed as part of a multi-cultural society. What was once new and foreign has been transformed with new ingredients and styles into distinctly Australian food. The consumption of beer as Australia's most popular alcoholic drink was later overtaken by wine in the 1970s. Wines have a long history in Australia with vines planted to yield grapes for wine in 1791, and exports of Australian wine beginning in 1822.
Experience the freedom and creativity of Australia's food and wine culture that helps us produce fresh and innovative flavours and wines that are the envy of the world. Australia's unspoilt landscapes produce an incredibly wide variety of fresh and tantalising produce. The Taste of Tasmania is one of Australia's most popular food festivals. Stallholders use their creativity to present a variety of dishes such as wallaby burritos for those a little more adventurous to the family favourite, freshly cooked fish and chips.
Meat has always been a large part of the Australian diet, although Australians (like others around the world) began to be concerned about controlling cholesterol and fat in their diet, and decreased their consumption of meat slightly toward the end of the twentieth century. 
Australian cuisine of the first decade of the 21st century shows the influence of globalisation. Organic and biodynamic foods have become widely available and there has been a revival of interest in bushfoods. The Australian Wine Industry is the fourth largest exporter of wine around the world, with 760 million litres a year to a large international export market and contributes $5.5 billion per annum to the nation's economy.
Australian cuisine features Australian seafood such as: Southern bluefin tuna, King George whiting, Moreton Bay bug, Mud Crab, Jew Fish, Dhufish (Western Australia) and Yabby. Australia is one of the largest producers of abalone and rock lobster. The Australian Wine Industry is the fourth largest exporter of wine around the world, with 760 million litres a year to a large international export market and contributes $5.5 billion per annum to the nation's economy.
29. Found commonly in Australian waters including Sydney Harbour, John Dory is a popular fish variety in local cuisine. Battered and fried and served with chips, or pan-fried with herbed oil on a bed of mashed potato with salad, this is a versatile, meaty fish and popular Australian food. A favorite Australian food, the delectable bite-sized treat is made up of chewy caramel coated in milk chocolate. It's renowned for yellow and blue wrapping scribed with movie trivia, a marketing move that has endeared the treat to DVD groupies and movie goers.
Food. Food and Drink Australia's first settlers brought with them the tastes of 18th century Great Britain. Their familiar dishes such as roast beef and Yorkshire pudding, Irish stew and steamed pudding were, for most of the year, totally unsuitable for the harsh climate and conditions.