A Surcharge is an extra fee charged by a card acceptant when paying with cheque, credit Card, charge Card or debit card (but not cash) to cover the cost of the merchant service charge. 
The surcharge restoration amount is 5% of the total surcharge balance due when you were suspended. For example, if the balance due at the time of suspension was $1,000, the restoration amount is $50 plus the $100 license restoration fee ($150 total). 
Best Answer: When you use an ATM there can be two different fees. The bank that issued your card can charge a fee. And the owner of the ATM can charge a surcharge (which is also a fee). Generally, if you use an ATM that is owned by your bank, there are no fees. However, if you use an ATM that is not owned by your bank, you pay two fees. If you use a Surcharge Free ATM, you will at most only pay the one fee to your bank
A surcharge fee is an extra cost added to a bill the consumer is already expected to pay. Surcharge fees are imposed for a variety of reasons, including fuel costs, services, travel time and equipment use. A surcharge may fee be a flat rate or calculated as a percentage of the original bill. Many airlines also require passengers to pay a surcharge to cover fuel fees. Companies may calculate fuel surcharges based on the miles traveled, the weight of the load, the amount of fuel used or as a percentage.
A surcharge may mean: 1  an extra fee added onto another fee or charge. 2  fuel surcharge, sky freight charges which represents additions due to jet fuel prices. 3  bunker adjustment factor, sea freight charges which represents additions due to oil prices. 1 fuel surcharge, sky freight charges which represents additions due to jet fuel prices. 2  bunker adjustment factor, sea freight charges which represents additions due to oil prices. 3  surcharge (payment systems) charged when paying with cheque, credit, charge or debit card.
DEFINITION of 'Surcharge'. A fee or other charge that is added to the cost of a good or service. A surcharge is typically added to an existing tax, and may not be included in the stated price of a good or service. It may be a temporary measure to defray the cost of increased commodity pricing, such as with a fuel surcharge, or it may be permanent. A surcharge does not have to be imposed by the government. For example, when gas prices are high, taxi companies may add a fuel surcharge of $1 to cover the increased fuel cost. Some surcharges are not included in the listed price of a good or service, requiring consumers to pay attention to the final bill or risk paying more than they bargained for. RELATED TERMS.
1 an extra fee added onto another fee or charge. 2  fuel surcharge, sky freight charges which represents additions due to jet fuel prices. 3  bunker adjustment factor, sea freight charges which represents additions due to oil prices. 4  surcharge (payment systems) charged when paying with cheque, credit, charge or debit card. 1 fuel surcharge, sky freight charges which represents additions due to jet fuel prices. 2  bunker adjustment factor, sea freight charges which represents additions due to oil prices. 3
Surcharge. An overcharge or additional cost. A surcharge is an added liability imposed on something that is already due, such as a tax on tax. It also refers to the penalty a court can impose on a fiduciary for breaching a duty. surcharge. n. an additional charge of money made because it was omitted in the original calculation or as a penalty, such as for being late in making a payment. noun added charge, additional charge, excessive burden, excessive charge, extra charge, extra fee, overburden, overcharge, overload, penalty.
Many restaurants impose a surcharge for parties of more than six or eight people. Some restaurants may add a service fee to every patron's bill instead of asking for tips. Restaurant service fees are usually calculated as a percentage of the total bill. One of the most common surcharge rates is 18 percent, although some restaurant owners may charge higher or lower amounts for their service. Many airlines also require passengers to pay a surcharge to cover fuel fees. Companies may calculate fuel surcharges based on the miles traveled, the weight of the load, the amount of fuel used or as a percentage.
Individuals are notified by mail each time a surcharge is added to their driver record. Surcharges are in addition to other fees and do not replace a suspension, revocation, denial, disqualification or cancellation resulting from the same conviction. Surcharges are assessed in two ways: 1  Point System, and. 1 A service fee of 4 percent of the original surcharge amount. 2  An installment plan fee of $2.50 for each partial payment. 3  A credit or debit card fee of 2.25 percent of the payment plus $0.25 (except where prohibited by law).