Dark green leafy vegetables are great sources of nutrition. Salad greens, kale and spinach are rich in vitamins A, C, E and K, and broccoli, bok choy and mustard are also rich in many of the B-vitamins. Add to soup: Add greens with larger, tougher leaves such as collard greens, kale or mustard greens into your favorite soup. Stir-fry: Add chopped spinach, bok choy or broccoli to chicken or tofu stir-fried with olive or canola oil with some garlic, onion or ginger.
Perk them up with small tender leafy greens such as romaine lettuce, spinach and arugula mixed with different kinds of tomatoes, cucumbers and carrots. Wrap it up: Make a wrap with tuna, chicken or turkey and add romaine lettuce, spinach, arugula, and other veggies for some extra flavor. Add to soup: Add greens with larger, tougher leaves such as collard greens, kale or mustard greens into your favorite soup. Stir-fry: Add chopped spinach, bok choy or broccoli to chicken or tofu stir-fried with olive or canola oil with some garlic, onion or ginger.
Cruciferous Leafy Greens. Kale, mustard greens, collard greens, cabbage and broccoli are cruciferous leafy greens. Cruciferous vegetables are high in nutrients and contain glucosinolates, which inhibit the growth of certain cancers. Dark green leafy vegetables are nutritional powerhouses filled with vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients.
Leafy Vegetables, also called potherbs, green vegetables, greens, or leafy greens, are easy-to-grow plant leaves that can be prepared raw, cooked or saut¿ed and eaten as a vegetable. 
Many green leafy vegetables, such as lettuce or spinach, can also be eaten raw, for example in sandwiches or salads. A green smoothie enables large quantities of raw leafy greens to be consumed by blending the leaves with fruit and water. Woody plants whose leaves can be eaten as leaf vegetables include Adansonia, Aralia, Moringa, Morus, and Toona species. The leaves of many fodder crops are also edible by humans, but usually only eaten under famine conditions.
Leaf vegetables, also called potherbs, greens, vegetable greens, leafy greens or salad greens, are plant leaves eaten as a vegetable, sometimes accompanied by tender petioles and shoots. Woody plants whose leaves can be eaten as leaf vegetables include Adansonia, Aralia, Moringa, Morus, and Toona species. The leaves of many fodder crops are also edible by humans, but usually only eaten under famine conditions.
Cooking Greens. Swiss chard, kale, bok choy, collards and mustard, beet and turnip greens are common dark leafy cooking greens, vegetables that are distinguished by their high concentration of nutrients and pungent flavor. Dark green vegetables are a subgroup of the vegetable food group, one of five main food groups established by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to promote healthy eating.
Salad Greens. Dark leafy salad greens, including leaf lettuce and non-lettuce greens, make up a significant portion of the dark green vegetable subgroup. Varied in texture and flavor, these mostly non-bitter greens are typically used in fresh salads. Dark green vegetables are a subgroup of the vegetable food group, one of five main food groups established by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to promote healthy eating.
Edible green leaves have an abundance of nutrients. Dark green leafy vegetables are nutritional powerhouses filled with vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients. They are rich in chlorophyll, which alkalinizes the blood, and fiber, which keeps the colon healthy
Nearly one thousand species of plants with edible leaves are known. Leaf vegetables most often come from short-lived herbaceous plants such as lettuce and spinach. Woody plants whose leaves can be eaten as leaf vegetables include Adansonia, Aralia, Moringa, Morus, and Toona species. The leaves of many fodder crops are also edible by humans, but usually only eaten under famine conditions.