• AFRIKAANS (noun). The noun AFRIKAANS has 1 sense: 1. an official language of the Republic of South Africa; closely related to Dutch and Flemish. Familiarity information: AFRIKAANS used as a noun is very rare. • AFRIKAANS (adjective). The adjective AFRIKAANS has 1 sense: 1. belonging or relating to white people of South Africa whose ancestors were Dutch or to their language. Familiarity information: AFRIKAANS used as an adjective is very rare.
Afrikaans is also spoken in Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland and Zambia. The name Afrikaans means ‘African’ in Dutch. It was originally used by the Dutch settlers and indentured workers brought to the Cape area in southwestern South Africa by the Dutch East India Company between 1652 and 1705. 1 Afrikaans is spoken by 20,000 people in Botswana where it has no official status (Ethnologue). 2  Namibia. 3  Afrikaans is spoken in Namibia by 90,000 people (Ethnologue). 4  It has had constitutional recognition as a national language since independence in 1990.
The Afrikaans media, to me, means that I have a second soul, a second way of looking at life, at people through another window. I often get a more nuanced sense of the world as I discover layers of narratives, stories and ideas, which do not necessarily always reveal themselves in a monolingual English environment. Afrikaans is my mother tongue and Afrikaans media addresses me in the language in which I grew up, dream and swear. It is my default setting. I believe it means the same to our Afrikaans readers. Most of them understand English and can also read, write and speak it.
Afrikaans (/ˌaːfrɨˈkɑːnᵗs/ or /-ˈkɑːnz/) is one of the official languages of South Africa. Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.
This list of Afrikanerisms comprises slang words and phrases influenced by Afrikaans and other African languages. Typical users include people with Afrikaans as their first language but who speak English as a second language; and people living in areas where the population speaks both English and Afrikaans. 
Afrikaans is not a language. The language is merely a manifestation of a culture and an understanding that I come from something that runs far deeper. The reason I believe Afrikaans will never die is because it is not a language but a culture. Afrikaans is my mother tongue and Afrikaans media addresses me in the language in which I grew up, dream and swear. It is my default setting. I believe it means the same to our Afrikaans readers. Most of them understand English and can also read, write and speak it.
Although Afrikaans is mainly spoken in South Africa and Namibia, smaller Afrikaans-speaking populations live in Argentina, Australia, Botswana, Brazil, Canada, Lesotho, Malawi, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Swaziland, the UAE, the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, the USA, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.
Alle menslike wesens word vry, met gelyke waardigheid en regte, gebore. Hulle het rede en gewete en behoort in die gees van broederskap teenoor mekaar op te tree. • Het Afrikaansch, Bijdrage tot de geschiedenis der Nederlandsche taal in Zuid-Afrika: The Afrikaans, history of the Dutch language in South Africa, by D.C. Hesseling (1899). Afrikaans is a language derived from Dutch, spoken in South Africa.
In neighbouring Namibia, Afrikaans is widely spoken as a second language and used as lingua franca, while as a native language it is spoken in 11% of households, mainly concentrated in the capital Windhoek and the southern regions of Hardap and ǁKaras. Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.
The main Afrikaans dictionary is the Woordeboek van die Afrikaanse Taal (WAT) (Dictionary of the Afrikaans Language), which is as yet incomplete owing to the scale of the project, but the one-volume dictionary in household use is the Verklarende Handwoordeboek van die Afrikaanse Taal (HAT). Afrikaans is a very centralised language, meaning that most of the vowels are pronounced in a very centralised (or schwa-like) way. Although there are many different dialects and accents, the transcription would be fairly standard.