The sockeye salmon is sometimes called red or blueback salmon, due to its color. Sockeye are blue tinged with silver in color while living in the ocean. When they return to spawning grounds, their bodies become red and their heads turn green. This species is a Pacific salmon that is primarily red in hue during spawning. They can grow up to 84 cm in length and weigh 2.3 to 7 kg. Juveniles remain in freshwater until they are ready to migrate to the ocean, over distances of up to 1,600 km. Their diet consists primarily of zooplankton.
Also known as red salmon, sockeye is the second smallest of the five main Pacific salmon species after pink salmon. Frequently considered to be the best for flavor and texture, which is one of the reasons why it is often canned, sockeye is relatively low in fat with flesh carrying a fluorescent orange tinge. 
Most wild-caught sockeye salmon sold in the U.S. is from Alaska, with those from the Copper River being particularly prized and Bristol Bay being particularly prolific. Commericial catches of sockeye also come from Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia. While king or chinook salmon may get all the attention and many people swear by its superiority, sockeye salmon is a richly textured and highly flavorful salmon. For people who like the flavor of salmon, sockeye is the way to go, since it tastes the most, well, like salmon. Sockeye eat more plankton and crustaceans like shrimp than other salmon species, which contributes to their darker color. While chinook are fattier, sockeye are the second fattiest salmon, and they have the added benefit of having the firmest texture of all Pacific salmon
Sockeye salmon is the third-most common Pacific salmon species, after pink and chum salmon. Oncorhynchus comes from the Greek ὄγκος (onkos) meaning barb, and ῥύγχος (rhynchos) meaning snout. nerka is the Russian name for the anadromous form. This species is a Pacific salmon that is primarily red in hue during spawning. They can grow up to 84 cm in length and weigh 2.3 to 7 kg. Juveniles remain in freshwater until they are ready to migrate to the ocean, over distances of up to 1,600 km. Their diet consists primarily of zooplankton.
Sockeye Salmon -- Big Color, Big Salmon Flavor: Sockeye salmon is one of a trinity of prized Pacific salmon. Along with the silver (coho) and king (chinook) salmon, sockeyes are the most sought-after species in the Pacific. Sockeye really only needs salt, a squeeze of lemon or a simple sauce to go with it. A Japanese sake-and-soy based sauce is a good choice, as is something like parsley butter or a white wine sauce. And as the second-fattiest salmon after chinook, sockeye smokes beautifully.
Sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) — also called red salmon or blueback salmon in the United States — is an anadromous species of salmon found in the Northern Pacific Ocean and rivers discharging into it. This species is a Pacific salmon that is primarily red in hue during spawning. They can grow up to 84 cm in length and weigh 2.3 to 7 kg. Juveniles remain in freshwater until they are ready to migrate to the ocean, over distances of up to 1,600 km. Their diet consists primarily of zooplankton.
Suk-kegh means red fish. The sockeye, also called red or blueback salmon, is among the smaller of the seven Pacific salmon species, but their succulent, bright-orange meat is prized above all others. They range in size from 24 to 33 inches (60 to 84 centimeters) in length and weigh between 5 and 15 pounds (2.3 to 7 kilograms). 
General Description. Sockeye salmon are one of the smaller species of Pacific salmon, measuring 18 to 31inches in length and weighing 4-15 pounds. Sea-going sockeye salmon have iridescent silver flanks, a white belly, and a metallic green-blue top, giving them their blueback name. Life History. Like all species of Pacific salmon, sockeye salmon are anadromous, living in the ocean but entering fresh water to spawn. Sockeye salmon spend one to four years in fresh water and one to three years in the ocean.