The US states that are designated as commonwealths are Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Virginia. + 66 others found this useful. Stephanie Carlson. Edit. Four U.S. states call themselves commonwealth: Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
What states are commonwealths? In the United States Massachusetts, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, and Virginia are styled commonwealths, not states, although functionally there is no difference. Four U.S. states call themselves commonwealth: Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Virginia.
The same term is also used by the U.S. Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, which are not states where it has a distinct legal meaning. Massachusetts is officially named The Commonwealth of Massachusetts by its constitution. The name  State of Massachusetts Bay  was used in all acts and resolves up to 1780 and the first draft of the
Four of the 50 states in the U.S. call themselves a Commonwealth-Virginia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Kentucky. Constitutionally, there is no difference between a state and a commonwealth. Commonwealth originally meant a region governed by the people, not a monarch. England was a commonwealth from around 1649 to 1660. During the American Revolution, the colonies of Massachusetts, Virginia and Pennsylvania declared themselves commonwealths.
By Matt Rosenberg. I discovered a great answer to the question of why Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, and Massachusetts are all officially commonwealths and not states and the U.S. government site, Ben's Guide to the U.S. Government for Kids ... There is no difference between a commonwealth and a state in the U.S. To Locke, Hobbes, and other 17th-century writers the term commonwealth meant an organized political community -- what we today call a state.. Officially Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, and Massachusetts are all commonwealths
For other uses, see Commonwealth. A map of the United States of America, showing the four states that refer to themselves as a commonwealth in red.  Commonwealth  is a nomenclature used by four of the constituent states of the United States of America in their official, full state names. These states are Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. The four were among the original 15 states to join the Union. Massachusetts is officially named The Commonwealth of Massachusetts by its constitution. The name  State of Massachusetts Bay  was used in all acts and resolves up to 1780 and the first draft of the
A commonwealth is a type of territory. Both commonwealths and territories are referred to as insular areas.. An insular area is a United States territory that is neit … her a part of one of the fifty states nor a part of the District of Columbia, the nation's federal district. 
Commonwealth indicates that the states are independent. There are 50 states in the US, and out of these, only four, namely, Massachusetts, Virginia, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania choose to be labeled as commonwealths. Let us see if there is any difference between other common states and these commonwealths. Commonwealth vs State. The difference between commonwealth and state is only in the names with regard to the US states. Commonwealth is a term that is used to refer to countries that were once ruled by England and were a part of the British Empire.
There are four commonwealths in the United States: Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Virginia. —The Editors. 1  Calculator. 2  Spelling Checker. 3  Place Finder. 4  Distance Calculator. 5  Periodic Table. 