Human body tissue makes up organs and other body parts. There are four main types of tissue: muscle, epithelial, connective and nervous. Each is made of specialized cells that are grouped together according to structure and function. Muscle is found throughout the body and even includes organs such as the heart. These groupings of cells form tissues, which then make up organs and various parts of the body. For example, it is easy to see and feel muscle in the body. Muscle is one of the four types of human body tissue. In this lesson, learn more about the types of tissue and how each functions for a different purpose.
In humans, there are four basic tissue types, which are: epithelial tissue, connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Within each general tissue type, there are specific tissue types. Think of this like a football team. There are individual players, each with their own 'job' on the field. A tissue is one of the building blocks of an organism--either animal or plant. An organism is comprised of tissues, which are made up of individual cells. These cells share a similar structure (how they're built) and function (what they do). The study of tissues is a field known as histology.
Medical Definition of TISSUE. : an aggregate of cells usually of a particular kind together with their intercellular substance that form one of the structural materials of a plant or an animal and that in animals include connective tissue, epithelium, muscle tissue, and nerve tissue. 
Tissues. Explore the four main categories of tissues found in the body. These tissues include epithelial tissue, connective tissue, muscle tissue, and nervous tissue. 
Muscle tissue is made of excitable cells that are capable of contraction. Of all of the different tissue types (muscle, epithelial, connective, and nervous), muscle tissue is the most abundant in most animals. There are three major types of muscle tissue: 1  Cardiac Muscle. 2  Cardiac muscle is so named because it is found in the heart. 3  Cells are joined to one another by intercalated discs which allow the synchronization of the heart beat.
A body tissue composed of elongated cells (called muscle fibers) that contract to produce movement. In vertebrate animals, voluntary movement is produced by the action of muscles on bone. Movement of the muscles of the heart and other organs is involuntary and controlled by the autonomic nervous system. 1. A tissue composed of fibers capable of contracting to effect bodily movement. 2. A contractile organ consisting of a special bundle of muscle tissue, which moves a particular bone, part, or substance of the body: the heart muscle; the muscles of the arm.
In biology, tissue is a cellular organizational level intermediate between cells and a complete organ. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. The study of tissue is known as histology or, in connection with disease, histopathology.
Cardiac muscle: A type of muscle tissue that is found only in the heart and is distinguishable from the two other forms of muscle, smooth muscle (that moves internal organs, such as the bowels, and vessels, such as the artery walls) and skeletal muscle (that powers joints). 
Definition. noun, plural: muscle tissues. An animal tissue capable of contracting, and therefore enables movement or tension in the body. Supplement. The animal body is comprised of different tissues. There are four fundamental types of animal tissues: muscle tissues, epithelial tissues, connective tissues, and nervous tissues. The muscle tissue is the animal tissue capable of contraction and is associated with the various movements or locomotion in animals. 
Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated.