Wikipedia Meaning and Definition on 'MENSAH'. 1  Mensah: Mensah may refer to: Mensah (surname), a surname Asante-Mensah Azumah-Mensah Mensa (disambiguation) Mensah-Bonsu Mensah-Coker Nunoo-Mensah Tachie-Mensah. 1 E. T. Mensah: Emmanuel Tettey Mensah, best known as E. T. Mensah (31 May 1919 – 19 July 1996), was a Ghanaian musician who was regarded as the King of Highlife music. 2  Samuel Mensah: Samuel Mensah (born 19 May 1989) is a Ghanaian footballer who plays for Örebro öREBRO sk as a.  defender
1 Frances Takyi-Mensah: Frances Tekyi-Mensah is a beauty queen who represented Ghana in Miss World 2008 in South Africa. 2  She has a Bachelor's degree in Psychology and is a Chartered. 1 E. T. Mensah: Emmanuel Tettey Mensah, best known as E. T. Mensah (31 May 1919 – 19 July 1996), was a Ghanaian musician who was regarded as the King of Highlife music. 2  Samuel Mensah: Samuel Mensah (born 19 May 1989) is a Ghanaian footballer who plays for Örebro öREBRO sk as a.  defender
Mensah is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Men-sah. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Mensah Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mensah has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mensah to other names.
You can see how Mensah families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. Find out where people with the family name Mensah lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
1 Alex Tachie-Mensah: Alexander Tachie-Mensah (born 15 February 1977 in Accra) is a former Ghanaian football striker and works currently as Head Coach of the Youth from FC Frauenfeld. 2  Frances Takyi-Mensah: Frances Tekyi-Mensah is a beauty queen who represented Ghana in Miss World 2008 in South Africa. 1 E. T. Mensah: Emmanuel Tettey Mensah, best known as E. T. Mensah (31 May 1919 – 19 July 1996), was a Ghanaian musician who was regarded as the King of Highlife music. 2  Samuel Mensah: Samuel Mensah (born 19 May 1989) is a Ghanaian footballer who plays for Örebro öREBRO sk as a.  defender
Mensah Early Origins. First found in Bavaria, where this ancient family name trace their origin back to the twelfth century. They declared allegiances to many nobles and princes of early history, lending their influence in struggles for power and status within the region. 1 New Products with a Mensah family crest. 2  Packages with the family crest for the name Mensah. 3  Plaques and Frames revealing the Mensah family crest. 4  Surname Histories for the name Mensah. 5  Symbolism
Egyptian Meaning: The name Mensah is an Egyptian baby name. In Egyptian the meaning of the name Mensah is: Born third. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. for harmony and balance in their lives, and respond positively to beautiful things. SheKnows Media &dash; Family.
Meaning of Mensah. Egyptian name. In Egyptian, the name Mensah means-born third.The name Mensah originated as an Egyptian name. The name Mensah is most often used as a boy name or male name. Egyptian Name Meaning-born third. Origin-Egypt. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
You can use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Osafo mensah surname lived over the years. While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc. Find out where people with the family name Osafo mensah lived before coming to the United States. 
Click on a circle in the chart to view Mensah birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.