Taurus appears, but immediately returns to the Celestial Spirit World. Taurus and Lucy high-five each other when they, and the rest of Team Natsu, defeat a gang of thieves. Even though they were easy to defeat, Erza thinks that the thieves deserve greater punishment. After Fairy Tail invades Cube, Lucy and Wendy are confronted by two Demons of Tartaros, prompting the Celestial Spirit Mage to summon both Taurus and Aries.
Lucy-san's boobs are the best! . Taurus (タウロス Taurosu), The Golden Bull (金牛宮 Kingyūkyū), is a Celestial Spirit that is one of the 12 Golden Zodiac Keys. His key is currently owned by Lucy Heartfilia. After Fairy Tail invades Cube, Lucy and Wendy are confronted by two Demons of Tartaros, prompting the Celestial Spirit Mage to summon both Taurus and Aries.
This is the song that Zeppelin stole the intro to Stairway to Heaven from. Not a soundtrack, but quite the tune.  1 Taurus by Spirit (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 
The British rockers must confront allegations that it ripped off the rock group Spirit. For decades, Led Zeppelin has faced claims that they plagiarized their iconic 1971 hit “Stairway to Heaven” from the rock band Spirit. Now it looks like Zeppelin is headed for a difficult legal battle. Back in May, family members of Spirit frontman Randy Craig Wolfe (a.k.a Randy California) filed the suit against Zeppelin, seeking monetary damages and a writing credit for the now-deceased Wolfe, NBC Philadelphia reports.
1 USS Taurus (PHM-3) , a hydrofoil formerly operated by the United States Navy. 2  Bristol Taurus, a 14-cylinder two-row radial aircraft engine. 3  Taurus Armoured Recovery Vehicle, a Canadian ARV based on the Leopard 1 tank. 4  ST Taurus a tug in service with Panfido Rim., Italy 1949-84. 1 USS Taurus (AF-25) , a cargo ship in WWII. 2  USS Taurus (PHM-3) , a hydrofoil formerly operated by the United States Navy. 3  Bristol Taurus, a 14-cylinder two-row radial aircraft engine. 4  Taurus Armoured Recovery Vehicle, a Canadian ARV based on the Leopard 1 tank. 5  ST Taurus a tug in service with Panfido Rim., Italy 1949-84.
Taurus is Latin for Bull and may refer to: 1  Taurus (constellation) , one of the constellations of the zodiac. 2  Bull (mythology) , the mythological references around Taurus. 3  Taurus (astrology) , the astrological sign. 4  Bos taurus, a species of cattle. 1 USS Taurus (AF-25) , a cargo ship in WWII. 2  USS Taurus (PHM-3) , a hydrofoil formerly operated by the United States Navy. 3  Bristol Taurus, a 14-cylinder two-row radial aircraft engine. 4  Taurus Armoured Recovery Vehicle, a Canadian ARV based on the Leopard 1 tank. 5  ST Taurus a tug in service with Panfido Rim., Italy 1949-84.
Wolfe’s family claims that Led Zeppelin’s Jimmy Page ripped off the chords for “Stairway to Heaven” from Spirit’s 1968 tune “Taurus.” (The two bands at one point toured together and had thus become familiar with each other’s music.). Back in May, family members of Spirit frontman Randy Craig Wolfe (a.k.a Randy California) filed the suit against Zeppelin, seeking monetary damages and a writing credit for the now-deceased Wolfe, NBC Philadelphia reports.
Taurus  is a rock instrumental by American rock band Spirit, originally released on their self-titled debut album in 1968. The track, composed by guitarist / singer Randy California, was recorded in November 1967. People always ask me why Stairway to Heaven sounds exactly like Taurus, which was released two years earlier. I know Led Zeppelin also played Fresh Garbage in their live set. They opened up for us on their first American tour.