Two of the 11 patients had very high serum concentrations of calcium (17.1 mg/dL and 14.1 mg/dL, respectively) and PTH, as well as nausea and altered consciousness. In both patients, large areas within the cyst showed acute and chronic organization, consistent with cystic degeneration of a parathyroid adenoma. Atypical cystic parathyroid adenomas are a rare clinical entity. Atypical adenomas exhibit some pathologic features of carcinoma, but they lack the indisputable evidence of a malignant lesion, such as angioinvasion or metastatic involvement.
Abstract. Thyroid cysts are common lesions that most often result from cystic degeneration in an adenomatous nodule. However, any type of thyroid nodule can undergo cystic degeneration, including follicular adenomas, follicular carcinomas, Hurthle cell neoplasms, and papillary thyroid carcinomas (PTCs). 
Technetium-99m-sestamibi SPECT findings, surgical and pathologic reports, and the results of parathyroid hormone assay of the cyst fluid also were reviewed. RESULTS: Most of the cystic adenomas (14/15, 93%) were deep or inferolateral to the adjacent thyroid. The same percentage were elongated and had peripheral nodular components. An echogenic border separating the adenoma from the overlying thyroid was identified in 9 of 15 patients (60%). Six of 14 patients underwent preoperative or intraoperative sampling of cyst fluid, and the assay showed the parathyroid hormone levels ranged from 1,198 to greater than 5,000 pg/mL. Fourteen of 15 patients underwent preoperative sestamibi SPECT, and the adenoma was definitively localized in four patients (29%).
Accepted October 29, 2012. Cystic lesions of the parathyroid gland are rare (0.5%–1% of all parathyroid pathologies). Macroscopic cysts larger than 1 cm in diameter are referred to as parathyroid cysts. These lesions can be either true parathyroid cysts or cystic degeneration of parathyroid adenomas. Key Word: parathyroid cyst; cystic parathyroid adenoma; parathyroid adenoma. A 59-year-old female was referred for asymptomatic hypercalcemia (calcium 12.5 mg/dl, albumin 3.2 mg/dl) detected on routine health check. She complained of having a neck swelling which had not increased over the last 1year.
Parathyroid Adenoma. Your parathyroid glands, four very small glands located near or at the back of the thyroid gland, produce parathyroid hormone (PTH). This hormone helps control the amount of calcium and phosphorus in your blood. A parathyroid adenoma is a benign tumor on one of these glands. This causes your calcium and phosphorus balance to be disrupted, as the affected gland releases more PTH than it should. This condition is called hyperparathyroidism.
On the other hand, patients with true functional parathyroid cysts and patients with cystic parathyroid adenoma present with signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia. Parathyroid cysts are of variable sizes, ranging from 1 to 10 cm in greatest dimension, with the average cyst measuring approximately 3 to 5 cm. Key Word: parathyroid cyst; cystic parathyroid adenoma; parathyroid adenoma. A 59-year-old female was referred for asymptomatic hypercalcemia (calcium 12.5 mg/dl, albumin 3.2 mg/dl) detected on routine health check. She complained of having a neck swelling which had not increased over the last 1year.
A parathyroid adenoma is a benign tumor of the parathyroid gland. It generally causes hyperparathyroidism; there are very few reports of parathyroid adenomas that were not associated with hyperparathyroidism. A human being usually has four parathyroid glands located on the back surface of the thyroid in the neck. 
We speculate that the cause of our patient's decompensation was cystic degeneration of a preexisting adenoma. The histopathologic characteristics of parathyroid cysts are usually a smooth inner surface wall with a thin, tough membranous lining. Atypical cystic parathyroid adenomas are a rare clinical entity. Atypical adenomas exhibit some pathologic features of carcinoma, but they lack the indisputable evidence of a malignant lesion, such as angioinvasion or metastatic involvement.
Here we describe 4 cases with cystic lesions of the parathyroid gland. Three of these (Cases 1,2 and 3) had parathyroid adenomas with cystic degeneration whereas Case 4 had a true parathyroid cyst. Cystic lesions of the parathyroid gland are rare (0.5%–1% of all parathyroid pathologies). Macroscopic cysts larger than 1 cm in diameter are referred to as parathyroid cysts. These lesions can be either true parathyroid cysts or cystic degeneration of parathyroid adenomas. Key Word: parathyroid cyst; cystic parathyroid adenoma; parathyroid adenoma. A 59-year-old female was referred for asymptomatic hypercalcemia (calcium 12.5 mg/dl, albumin 3.2 mg/dl) detected on routine health check. She complained of having a neck swelling which had not increased over the last 1year.
Whether increased permeability through the cyst wall or a greater blood supply to and from the cyst allows the high cystic fluid PTH level to enter the circulation or whether the actual mass of active parathyroid cells is the explanation is unknown. Atypical cystic parathyroid adenomas are a rare clinical entity. Atypical adenomas exhibit some pathologic features of carcinoma, but they lack the indisputable evidence of a malignant lesion, such as angioinvasion or metastatic involvement.