Our Clarinet Selection. Here at Ken Stanton Music, we are committed not only to providing our customers with a great instrument at a great price, but also to making sure we help you find the right instrument for your needs. For woodwind and brass instruments, this often means special ordering an instrument for you.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: -Hello! A regular plastic clarinet can be anywhere from $200-$600. A wooden clarinet(highly suggested if you are serious about band and want to sound amazing) can cost around $2,000-or more. I can't afford a wooden one so i'm stuck with a plastic one. 500 dollars new for a good basic clarinet. go used if you don't want to spend more than 300 dollars. www.craigslist.com for used instruments, some people are selling good gently used intruments for that price. if you want a new, wood wind brass wind is the best website for you.
There are some great reasons to play clarinet: 1  The clarinet has a very pleasing warm sound. 2  Clarinet is one of the featured instruments in the band. 3  Some of the most beautiful music has been written for clarinet. As the distance increases, the tone gets lower. Clarinet is popular in a lot of styles of music from classical to jazz to pop. Its beautiful smooth tone is often heard in ballads but has also been popular in fast-paced dance music. Both boys and girls play the clarinet. Clarinet isn't really difficult.
The clarinet, with its soothingly beautiful tone, is one of the principal instruments in the band. The clarinet's sound is produced as the stream of air hits the tip of the wooden reed on the mouthpiece, causing it to vibrate. As the distance increases, the tone gets lower. Clarinet is popular in a lot of styles of music from classical to jazz to pop. Its beautiful smooth tone is often heard in ballads but has also been popular in fast-paced dance music. Both boys and girls play the clarinet. Clarinet isn't really difficult.
The largest selection of officially licensed downloadable clarinet sheet music, right at your fingertips! Search our huge selection of today's top 40 hits, classical essentials and more, available for instant download and printing. 
SSE Music is proud to serve dozens of school districts in western Wisconsin and neighboring Minnesota counties. We work closely with your school's music director to make sure your child gets the instrument that is the best fit for a successful and fun school music experience! One of the BEST musical instrument stores in Wisconsin, we also rent sound systems and recording equipment to schools in Tomah, Holmen, Sparta, Viroqua and Eau Claire, as well as La Crescent and Caledonia, MN, and surrounding Minnesota (MN) communities.
Page Summary: SSE Music is a local music store in La Crosse, Wisconsin, selling band equipment and other musical instruments at our retail music store and online. Copyright © 2010-2015, SSE Music-All rights reserved. We also specialize in music equipment repairs for school bands and orchestras from Prairie du Chien to Richland Center, Eau Claire and Black River Falls, as well as Tomah, Sparta and La Crescent and Caledonia, MN and all communities in between.
1 Clarinet is one of the featured instruments in the band. 2  Some of the most beautiful music has been written for clarinet. 3  Clarinet is not hard to learn. 4  Once you can play clarinet you can easily learn to play saxophone and flute. As the distance increases, the tone gets lower. Clarinet is popular in a lot of styles of music from classical to jazz to pop. Its beautiful smooth tone is often heard in ballads but has also been popular in fast-paced dance music. Both boys and girls play the clarinet. Clarinet isn't really difficult.
Page Summary: SSE Music store offers band instruments and equipment rentals, including brass instruments, strings and percussion from in La Crosse to Winona MN and Black River Falls. Copyright © 2010-2015, SSE Music-All rights reserved. One of the BEST musical instrument stores in Wisconsin, we also rent sound systems and recording equipment to schools in Tomah, Holmen, Sparta, Viroqua and Eau Claire, as well as La Crescent and Caledonia, MN, and surrounding Minnesota (MN) communities.