NASA astronaut candidates must also pass a demanding physical. Among the requirements: 1  20/20 vision (either naturally or with corrective lenses). 2  blood pressure not more than 140/90 in a sitting position. 3  a height of between 62 and 75 inches. A typical spaceflight these days for a NASA astronaut lasts six months on the International Space Station, but some astronauts are now being assigned to year-long flights to learn more about the human body. Science will take up most of an astronaut's time in orbit.
The Federation Fédération Aeronautique (AéRONAUTIQUE) Internationale Fai sporting code for astronautics recognizes only flights that exceed an altitude of (100 kilometers) . 62 mi In The, united, states, professional military and commercial astronauts who travel above an altitude of (50 miles) 80 km are awarded. astronaut wings An astronaut on the International Space Station requires about 0.83 kilograms (1.83 pounds) weight of food inclusive of food packaging per meal each day. (The packaging for each meal weighs around 0.12 kilograms - 0.27 pounds) Longer-duration missions require more food.
As for how to become an astronaut, we are fortunate as NASA has made the requirements to apply to the NASA astronaut corps available online. If you are from another country, please check with your country’s space agency. You can follow a similar guide as NASA’s, but be aware that every agency may be different. The first requirement for NASA astronauts is to be a United States citizen. However, if you were not born a natural citizen of the US, don’t give up hope! In 1981, Franklin Chang-Diaz became NASA’s first naturalized citizen astronaut. Chang-Diaz was born in Costa Rica and still holds dual citizenship.
1 A bachelor's degree in engineering, biological science, physical science or mathematics is required. 2  At least 1,000 hours' flying time as pilot-in-command in jet aircraft. 3  Experience as a test pilot is desirable. 4  Height must be 5 ft 2 in to 6 ft 2 in (1.58 m to 1.88 m). An astronaut on the International Space Station requires about 0.83 kilograms (1.83 pounds) weight of food inclusive of food packaging per meal each day. (The packaging for each meal weighs around 0.12 kilograms - 0.27 pounds) Longer-duration missions require more food.
Astronaut training requirements. The astronaut selection process is based on criteria matching the requirements of the various missions foreseen. Astronaut candidates are pre-selected in ESA Member States and finally selected by ESA. Applicants, male or female, must be nationals of an ESA Member State. The preferred age range is 27 to 37 and applicants must be within the height range of 153 to 190 cm.
This also allowed a change in the size of astronauts. Currently the physical requirements for NASA astronauts differ based on the professional tract chosen. From minimum to maximum, the NASA program can accommodate those ranging from just under 5 feet to 6 feet 4 inches in height. For pilot astronauts, (those in charge of operating the spacecraft), height must be between 64 and 76 inches so they can reach all the cockpit controls of the spacecraft. Payload specialists and mission specialist must both be between 58.5 and 76 inches in height. Astronauts must also maintain a healthy weight, proportional to their height. A look at other space programs around the world shows similar requirements. To be accepted into the European Space Agency, astronauts must have a height of 153 to 190 cm or 5 feet 1 inch to 6 feet 2 inches
Size does matter — especially to NASA. As early as 2009, applicants to the astronaut corps will face new size limits, including on weight and sitting height. That's a result of NASA's plan to retire the space shuttle in 2010 and switch entirely to smaller vehicles. The exact limits haven't been determined because new vehicles are still in development. The last time it recruited a new batch of astronauts, in 2003, the minimum height was 4 feet, 10½; the maximum was 6 feet, 4 inches. It would be the wrong thing to do to select people who aren't going to fit in your spaceship, says Duane Ross, NASA's head of astronaut selection.
« Reply #3 on: 10/03/2014 01:57 PM ». Height requirements concerned me when I was very young because I thought that would be all that prevented me from becoming an astronaut. Requirements generally vary by spacecraft. At one time the Russians were very height limited on Soyuz. 
General requirements. Applicants, male or female, must be nationals of an ESA Member State. The preferred age range is 27 to 37 and applicants must be within the height range of 153 to 190 cm.