Nanchang (Chinese: 南昌) is the capital of Jiangxi Province in southeastern China. As of 2010, a population of 5,042,565 live in the prefecture, in which 2,357,838 live in the built-up area made up of all five urban districts. Nanchang has, however, remained the undisputed regional metropolis of Jiangxi. On August 1, 1927, Nanchang was the site of one of a series of insurrections organized by the communists.
detailed map of Nanchang and near places. Welcome to the Nanchang google satellite map! This place is situated in Nanchang, Jiangxi, China, its geographical coordinates are 28° 41' 0 North, 115° 53' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Nanchang. See Nanchang photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Nanchang in China. The location of each Nanchang hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Nanchang hotel map is available where all hotels in Nanchang are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
As of 2010 (Census), Nanchang has a population of 5,042,565, of which about 2.3 million live in built-up (urbanized) area consists of five urban districts. 37 ethnic groups were counted amongst its prefecture divisions. Nanchang has, however, remained the undisputed regional metropolis of Jiangxi. On August 1, 1927, Nanchang was the site of one of a series of insurrections organized by the communists.
Nanchang is located 130 km (81 mi) south of the Yangtze River and is situated on the right bank of the Gan River just below its confluence with the Jin River and some 40 km (25 mi) southwest of its discharge into Poyang Lake. Nanchang has, however, remained the undisputed regional metropolis of Jiangxi. On August 1, 1927, Nanchang was the site of one of a series of insurrections organized by the communists.
Taxis are available at Nanchang Changbei International Airport, Nanchang Train Station and Nanchang West Train Station, which is a high speed train station. The journey to and from the hotel should be in line with following: Find your way to the heart of the city. Shangri-La hotel, Nanchang, is perfectly located for business and leisure travellers in the heart of the city’s new central business district, Honggutan.
Nanchang National Export Expressing Zone is located in Nanchang Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone, it was approved by the State Council on May 8, 2006, and passed the national acceptance inspection on Sep 7th, 2007. It has a planning area of 1 km 2 and now has built 0.31 km 2. Nanchang has, however, remained the undisputed regional metropolis of Jiangxi. On August 1, 1927, Nanchang was the site of one of a series of insurrections organized by the communists.
Nanchang-capital city of Jiangxi Province. It is located in the north of Jiangxi Province and the lower reaches of Gan River. The Prince Teng Pavilion towers at the bank of Gan River. The original pavilion was first built in 653 in the Tang Dynasty (618-907). It was rebuilt during the reign of the Ming emperor Jingtai (1450-1456) outside the Zhangjiang Gate.
Nanchang (南昌; Nanchāng) nánchāng is the capital Of Jiangxi province and is the, cultural economic and scientific center Of. jiangxi The taxi fare in Nanchang is also cheap compared to other cities in China with same scale and the initial starting price for a ride on taxi is ¥6 up to 2 kilometers. Beyond this mandatory starting-price-region, the rate is ¥1.9 per kilometer.
Nanchang is a good place to start other trips in Jiangxi Province. It has good connections with Lushan, Jingangshan, Jingdezhen, Wuyuan etc. Famed Lushan is about two and a half hour bus ride to the north. The taxi fare in Nanchang is also cheap compared to other cities in China with same scale and the initial starting price for a ride on taxi is ¥6 up to 2 kilometers. Beyond this mandatory starting-price-region, the rate is ¥1.9 per kilometer.