IBM is proud to sponsor the tenth annual Cost of Data Breach Study, the industry’s gold-standard benchmark research independently conducted by Ponemon Institute. The study found the average consolidated total cost of a data breach is $3.8 million representing a 23% increase since 2013. The study also reports that the cost incurred for each lost or stolen record containing sensitive and confidential information increased six percent from a consolidated average of $145 to $154. 
The True Cost of a HIPAA Breach. Richard Wagner, JD | September 23, 2013. Another week, another data breach. On September 10th, healthcare behemoth Kaiser Permanente sent out a letter to 670 patients, notifying them that their PHI had been impermissibly emailed out of network. In a white paper put out earlier this year by tech company Symantec, a global analysis yielded that the average cost of a US data breach fell just a shade under $200 per record compromised, which aligns with other studies done on the subject. If this number seems high, it’s because it is.
The first cost is reputational damage. In that regard, HHS is required to, and does, publish a list of breaches affecting more than 500 individuals on its website. See http://www. hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/hipaa/administrative/breachnotificationrule/breachtool.html. Larger breaches draw unfavorable media attention. 78 F.R. 5566, et seq. Much has been written on what constitutes a breach and how to prevent breaches. HHS estimates that as many as 700,000 entities will be subject to the Final Breach Notification Rule. 75 F.R. at 5671.
A breach involving the PHI of more than 500 individuals must be reported to HHS (45 C.F.R. § 408) and, if the breach involves the PHI of more than 500 individuals in a single state or similar jurisdiction, the media. 78 F.R. 5566, et seq. Much has been written on what constitutes a breach and how to prevent breaches. HHS estimates that as many as 700,000 entities will be subject to the Final Breach Notification Rule. 75 F.R. at 5671.
Under the new HIPAA Final Omnibus Rule, covered entities and business associates responsible for violating HIPAA privacy and security rules by failing to safeguard patient protected health information could face a potential up to $1.5 million in annual fines. Take 29.3 million, for instance, the number of patient health records compromised in a HIPAA data breach since 2009, or 138 percent, the percent jump in the number of health records breached just from 2012.
23 Chapter 3 HIPAA Cost Considerations Background Actual costs for HIPAA compliance will vary among covered entities(CEs) because of various factors such as size, type of business, organiza-tional culture, geographic locations, and number of business associates. Sure,HIPAA is a set of laws that must be adhered to, but the costs associatedwith protecting information (i.e., time, effort, and money) cannot exceedthe value of the information or the consequences if the information is com-promised.
To make matters worse, some could argue that $200/person mark represents a low estimate of the true total cost of a data breach. If an entity was particularly negligent, it could invite a class action lawsuit where the plaintiffs can and have asked for upwards of $1,000/record. In a white paper put out earlier this year by tech company Symantec, a global analysis yielded that the average cost of a US data breach fell just a shade under $200 per record compromised, which aligns with other studies done on the subject. If this number seems high, it’s because it is.
6. While the news frequently reports the number of data breaches in the health care industry, few may realize that the estimated cost for HIPAA breaches since 2009 has reached over 31 billion dollars.
A breach is the unauthorized access, acquisition, use or disclosure of PHI that compromises the PHI. 45 C.F.R. § 164.402. HHS included an estimate of the costs of compliance with the Breach Notification Rule in the preamble to the Interim Rule. 78 F.R. 5566, et seq. Much has been written on what constitutes a breach and how to prevent breaches. HHS estimates that as many as 700,000 entities will be subject to the Final Breach Notification Rule. 75 F.R. at 5671.