The Shot Tower is situated beside Channel Highway in Taroona and is about 11 km drive from Hobart. It was completed in 1870 and at 58 metres tall, was Australia's tallest building for four years. No other Tasmanian buildings as yet exceed the Shot Tower's height, although NAB house in Collins St Hobart equals it at 58 metres tall. Parks and Wildlife Service pages give a full description of the building and operation of the Shot Tower, includinghow shot was manufactured, and of Joseph Moir's life.
Taroona Shot Tower is a building in the Tasmanian town of Taroona, Australia. Built in 1870, a Shot tower was a building used to make shot balls or projectiles for firearms. The tower would be designed so that there would be a large basin of water at the bottom of the tower. Lead would be melted and carried up to the top of the tower via a stairway built circling around the tower.
View in E-Magazine. In 1943, Joseph left Tasmania and went back to Kelso where he married Elizabeth Paxton; he returned to Tasmania a year later. Moir began his work years by building homes and churches around Hobart, while obtaining land in and around the town. Above the door, there is a plaque that commemorates the building and the man who built it; it reads, “This shot tower was built by the proprietor, Joseph Moir, in the year 1870.
Inscription over doorway to tower. Australia’s first shot tower, at Taroona, was built by Joseph Moir and is one of three still existing in the country, the others being in Melbourne. Joseph Moir's factory, which operated for 35 years from 1870, manufactured lead shot for contemporary muzzle loading sports guns. This shot tower was built by the proprietor, Joseph Moir, in the year 1870. In its erection he acted as Engineer, Architect, Carpenter and Overseer. With merely the assistance of two masons it was completed in 8 months, when the secrets of shot-making had to be discovered.
A shot tower is a tower designed for the production of shot balls by freefall of molten lead, which is then caught in a water basin. The shot is used for projectiles in firearms. Large shot which could not be made by the shot tower were made by tumbling pieces of cut lead sheet in a barrel until round.
Surely one of the most-Instagrammed buildings in Melbourne, the Coop’s Shot Tower inside Melbourne Central. It was the tallest building in Melbourne's CBD until the mid-1940s, and has become one of the city’s most enduring landmarks. But it's also one of the most significant buildings in Australia’s industrial history. The Coop’s Shot Tower is one of only three 19th century shot towers remaining in Australia—the oldest (and the only one you can climb) is in Hobart; the tallest is just five kilometres away in Clifton Hill.
The Shot Tower is Taroona's most distinctive and important landmark, and one of Tasmania's most historical industrial buildings. It has National Trust classification A and is open to the public. No other Tasmanian buildings as yet exceed the Shot Tower's height, although NAB house in Collins St Hobart equals it at 58 metres tall. Parks and Wildlife Service pages give a full description of the building and operation of the Shot Tower, includinghow shot was manufactured, and of Joseph Moir's life.
It was Tasmania's tallest structure for over 100 years, until superceded by the 67 m broadcast tower on the pinnacle of Mt Wellington. No other Tasmanian buildings as yet exceed the Shot Tower's height, although NAB house in Collins St Hobart equals it at 58 metres tall. Parks and Wildlife Service pages give a full description of the building and operation of the Shot Tower, includinghow shot was manufactured, and of Joseph Moir's life.
The Taroona Shot tower was the first shot tower built in Australia. At the time it was built it was the tallest building in Australia (It is 53 metres tall, and has 300 stairs leading up to the top of the tower). It was the tallest building in Tasmania until recently when it was surpassed by the 63 metre tall ABC Tower in Hobart. Built in 1870, a Shot tower was a building used to make shot balls or projectiles for firearms. The tower would be designed so that there would be a large basin of water at the bottom of the tower. Lead would be melted and carried up to the top of the tower via a stairway built circling around