The folks at Sargento Reserve say you can freeze ricotta cheese, although the texture will suffer. You can certainly freeze it for six months. Thaw it in the refrigerator for a day or so. When thawed, there may be some liquid on top, which you should stir back into the cheese. 
When it comes to thawing, if you’re using ricotta in a cooked dish, you can add it frozen. If not, thaw in the fridge. If the texture isn’t right, consider following my suggestions mentioned earlier. It’s suggested to not freeze ricotta for more than 3 months, for quality purpose. As I have mentioned. the texture of thawed ricotta is altered (even after stirring it and draining). That’s something you need to take into account when freezing ricotta. Because of that, you probably won’t find this cheese as tasty and appealing as it was before freezing.
How to freeze ricotta cheese. If the cheese is still in its original package, you just need to seal it tightly and put it into the freezer. If would like to keep it in the freezer for more than a month, consider putting the sealed package into a freezer bag. As I have mentioned. the texture of thawed ricotta is altered (even after stirring it and draining). That’s something you need to take into account when freezing ricotta. Because of that, you probably won’t find this cheese as tasty and appealing as it was before freezing.
As you should know by now, ricotta cheese can be frozen, but freezing it changes its texture. If you’d like to use it in a cooked dish or any other in which ricotta cheese is just one of many components, it’ll be fine and in most cases you won’t even notice the cheese was frozen. As I have mentioned. the texture of thawed ricotta is altered (even after stirring it and draining). That’s something you need to take into account when freezing ricotta. Because of that, you probably won’t find this cheese as tasty and appealing as it was before freezing.
1 If you have just a small amount of ricotta you wish to freeze, as in not enough to use in a recipe, you can blend it with fresh fruit, strawberries, raspberries and blueberries work well, a bit of lemon juice and some sugar, then pour into popsicle molds with a popsicle stick. 1 Transfer the ricotta from the freezer and allow it to sit in the refrigerator for at least 24 hours. 2  Check the status of the defrosting by stirring. 3  If you can easily stir the cheese, then it's ready to use. 4  Do not thaw the cheese in a microwave, even on the defrost or low-power settings as this will ruin the texture.
Before you can use frozen ricotta cheese, you'll need to remove it from the freezer and allow it to defrost. As this is a dairy product, thawing it safely is important. 1  Transfer the ricotta from the freezer and allow it to sit in the refrigerator for at least 24 hours. 2  Check the status of the defrosting by stirring. 1 Transfer the ricotta from the freezer and allow it to sit in the refrigerator for at least 24 hours. 2  Check the status of the defrosting by stirring. 3  If you can easily stir the cheese, then it's ready to use. 4  Do not thaw the cheese in a microwave, even on the defrost or low-power settings as this will ruin the texture.
If necessary, hard or semi-hard cheese can be frozen if cut in 1-1/2- to 1-pound sizes and packaged in moisture-vapor resistant material. This cheese may become crumbly and mealy when frozen, but will retain its flavor. Cream cheese, cottage cheese and ricotta cheese do not freeze well. However, if combined with heavy cream, cream cheese can be frozen for later use in dips or as icing on frozen sandwich loaves. Recommended freezer shelf life: 1  Hard cheese (such as cheddar and Swiss), 6 months. 2  Soft cheese (such as Brie), 6 months. 
1 After freezing and thawing, the texture of the ricotta will become grainy and the liquid will separate. 2  This may make for a bad texture in whatever food or recipe the food is being used in, such as cheesecake. 3  Ricotta and other soft cheeses can only be frozen and stored for about two months. 1 Transfer the ricotta from the freezer and allow it to sit in the refrigerator for at least 24 hours. 2  Check the status of the defrosting by stirring. 3  If you can easily stir the cheese, then it's ready to use. 4  Do not thaw the cheese in a microwave, even on the defrost or low-power settings as this will ruin the texture.
Posts: 4,764. Unfortunately ricotta doesn't freeze well, it gets all grainy and all the creamy texture will be lost. Make some baked desserts with it, when it is cooked it will be fine for some more days!! (if you need some idea I will send you some recipes). I also freeze fresh made chevre cheeses. I blend the thawed cheese in a food processor and thin with yogurt, buttermilk or milk to desired consistency. The only cheese I have found that you can not freeze is store bought cream cheese, it is a mess.
Reasons to Freeze Ricotta Cheese. 1  As ricotta cheese can be expensive and is not used as often as other harder cheese, many will choose to purchase it in bulk. 2  By using what you need and freezing the rest, it's possible to save money. 1 Transfer the ricotta from the freezer and allow it to sit in the refrigerator for at least 24 hours. 2  Check the status of the defrosting by stirring. 3  If you can easily stir the cheese, then it's ready to use. 4  Do not thaw the cheese in a microwave, even on the defrost or low-power settings as this will ruin the texture.