The  common cold  is usually caused by a viral infection and treatment is directed at managing symptoms while the body's own immune system fights the infection. Common symptoms of an upper respiratory infection such as a cold include a runny nose, post-nasal drip, cough, and nasal congestion. If laryngitis develops (larynx=voice box + itis=inflammation), the patient may lose their voice or become hoarse. 1 The upper respiratory tract includes the mouth, nose, throat, larynx (voice box), and trachea (windpipe). 2  Upper respiratory infections are often referred to as  colds 3  .. The lower respiratory tract includes the bronchial tubes and the lungs. 4  Bronchitis and pneumonia are infections of the lower respiratory tract
The common cold and most upper respiratory infections are caused by infection with germs (viral infections). They usually get better in a few days. This leaflet gives some tips on what to do, and what symptoms to look out for which may indicate a more serious illness. A cold is an infection of the nose and upper airways caused by a germ (virus). They are extremely common. An adult can expect 2-4 colds a year, and a young child about 3-8 colds a year. Many different viruses can cause a cold. This is why colds come back (recur), and immunisation against colds is not possible.
An upper respiratory infection (URI), also known as the common cold, is one of the most common illnesses, leading to more health care provider visits and absences from school and work than any other illness every year. It is estimated that during a 1-year period, people in the U.S. will suffer 1 billion colds. 
Practice Essentials. Upper respiratory tract infection (URI) represents the most common acute illness evaluated in the outpatient setting. URIs range from the common cold—typically a mild, self-limited, catarrhal syndrome of the nasopharynx—to life-threatening illnesses such as epiglottitis (see the image below). Background. Upper respiratory tract infection (URI) represents the most common acute illness evaluated in the outpatient setting. URIs range from the common cold—typically a mild, self-limited, catarrhal syndrome of the nasopharynx—to life-threatening illnesses such as epiglottitis.
An upper respiratory infection (URI), also known as the common cold, is one of the most common illnesses, leading to more health care provider visits and absences from school and work than any other illness every year. It is estimated that during a 1-year period, people in the U.S. will suffer 1 billion colds. In fact, over 200 different varieties of viruses can cause the symptoms of a cold. The most common viruses that cause colds are called rhinoviruses. Other virus types include coronavirus, parainfluenza, adenovirus, enterovirus, and respiratory syncytial virus.
A cold, also called an upper respiratory infection (URI), is a collection of symptoms and one of the most common illnesses, leading to more doctor visits and absences from school and work than any other illness each year. 1  Most children will develop at least six to ten colds a year. 
The common cold, or upper respiratory tract infection, usually is caused by one of several respiratory viruses, most commonly rhinovirus. These viruses, which concentrate in nasal secretions, are easily transmitted through sneezing, coughing, or nose blowing. The common cold, or upper respiratory tract infection, is one of the leading reasons for physician visits. Generally caused by viruses, the common cold is treated symptomatically. Antibiotics are not effective in children or adults.
1 Symptoms of upper respiratory infection include. 2  cough, 3  sneezing, 4  nasal discharge, 5  nasal congestion, 6  runny nose, 7  fever, 8  scratchy or sore throat, and. 9  nasal breathing. 10  Antibiotics are rarely needed to treat upper respiratory infections and generally should be avoided, unless the doctor suspects a bacterial infection. 1 Upper respiratory infections are the most common illness resulting in missed work or school. 2  Upper respiratory infections can happen at any time, but are most common in the fall and winter. 3  The vast majority of upper respiratory infections are caused by viruses and are self-limited.
An upper respiratory infection (URI), also known as the common cold, is one of the most common illnesses, leading to more health care provider visits and absences from school and work than any other illness every year. It is estimated that during a 1-year period, people in the U.S. will suffer 1 billion colds. In fact, over 200 different varieties of viruses can cause the symptoms of a cold. The most common viruses that cause colds are called rhinoviruses. Other virus types include coronavirus, parainfluenza, adenovirus, enterovirus, and respiratory syncytial virus.