The literature review needs to critically examine the texts that relate to your research question, rather than to just list what you have located. Therefore, you must link the literature to your research question, demonstrating how it supports or extends the topic or the existing knowledge in the area. However, in the literature review because you are writing about other people's work it is easy for your own 'voice' to be lost. The literature review then reads like a mixture of different tones and arguments.
1 Establish the writer's reason (point of view) for reviewing the literature; explain the criteria to be used in analyzing and comparing literature and the organization of the review (sequence); and, when necessary, state why certain literature is or is not included (scope). For further information see our handouts on Writing a Critical Review of a Nonfiction Book or Article or Reading a Book to Review It. To learn more about literature reviews, take a look at our workshop on Writing Literature Reviews of Published Research.
The number of sources that you will be required to review will depend on what the literature review is for and how advanced you are in your studies. It could be from five sources at first year undergraduate level to more than fifty for a thesis. Your lecturer will advise you on these details. 1 Start by writing your thesis statement. 2  This is an important introductory sentence that will tell your reader what the topic is and the overall perspective or argument you will be presenting. 3  Like essays, a literature review must have an introduction, a body and a conclusion.
In most disciplines, the aim is for the reader to reach the end of the literature review with a clear appreciation of what you are doing; why you are doing it; and how it fits in with other research in your field. Often, the literature review will end with a statement of the research question(s). The ability to review, and to report on relevant literature is a key academic skill. A literature review: 1  situates your research focus within the context of the wider academic community in your field; 2  reports your critical review of the relevant literature; and.
Generally, the purpose of a review is to analyze critically a segment of a published body of knowledge through summary, classification, and comparison of prior research studies, reviews of literature, and theoretical articles. For further information see our handouts on Writing a Critical Review of a Nonfiction Book or Article or Reading a Book to Review It. To learn more about literature reviews, take a look at our workshop on Writing Literature Reviews of Published Research.
A literature review generally has Introduction, critical evaluation of each work and a summary. It also has an overview of the research question. It explains how each work is similar or different with respect to the topic. The literature review should have a personal judgment and evaluation and also explain the reasoning behind the judgment. Within the categories, the literature review can be critically evaluated on basis of parameters given below: 1  Coverage. 2  Justified criteria for inclusion and exclusion from review. 3  Synthesis. 4  Distinguished between what has been done in the field and what needs to be done.
Writing a Literature Review: A literature review is a type of critical review in which you analyze and evaluate many sources on a specific topic. The purpose is to provide your reader with an overview of the research that has been done on your topic, and to evaluate the sources you are reviewing. Critical Reviews and Literature Reviews ◘ The main ideas or arguments in the book or article. Don’t feel you have to mention everything: part of being an effective evaluator is being able to extract the most important ideas from a source. ◘ Your own evaluation of
How to critically evaluate the review of literature in a dissertation. Advice by Abhijeet on November 5, 2011 Leave a comment (0) Go to comments. The literature review is that part of a dissertation in which the writer justifies the need for the research by critically evaluating previous research. Within the categories, the literature review can be critically evaluated on basis of parameters given below: 1  Coverage. 2  Justified criteria for inclusion and exclusion from review. 3  Synthesis. 4  Distinguished between what has been done in the field and what needs to be done.
2. Components. Not to be confused with a book review, a literature review surveys scholarly articles, books and other sources (e.g. dissertations, conference proceedings) relevant to a particular issue, area of research, or theory, providing a description, summary, and critical evaluation of each work. 
The format of a review of literature may vary from discipline to discipline and from assignment to assignment. A review may be a self-contained unit -- an end in itself -- or a preface to and rationale for engaging in primary research. For further information see our handouts on Writing a Critical Review of a Nonfiction Book or Article or Reading a Book to Review It. To learn more about literature reviews, take a look at our workshop on Writing Literature Reviews of Published Research.