Rain for Rent provides unique high pressure frac with water from frac tank farm, pumping 2,300 gallons per minute for during the 12 hour frac. A full line of frac tanks, centrifugal pumps, pipelines, spillguards, and a safety-focused Rain for Rent are the go-to choice for explorer's well development work on BLM lands. 
Frac Tanks are constructed to meet the conditions encountered in the oil and gas industry.. The unique V-bottom floor design in Menard frac tanks gives the operator easier cleaning and maintenance of the tank. Manufactured with 0.25 the floor on our frac tanks are supported with the strongest undercarriage of any tank in production. 
Large Capacity Frac Tanks. Fracking is a process used in drilling to maximize the production of oil and gas wells. The fracking process basically consists of pumping fracking fluid, under pressures of 10,000 psi and more, through the well’s piping to the target area deep underground. Downward pressure is removed from the well, allowing oil and gas to travel upward to the surface where it is recovered. Fracking processes typically require 1.5 million to 6 million pounds of sand mixed with water. Most well sites utilize large capacity frac tanks capable of holding more than 1,000,000 gallons of water. Chemicals, such as guar gum, are added to the water/sand mixture to form a gel that permits the fluid to effectively travel downhole
Confidence votes 129. A frac tank is used to hold water, or a proppant, when a well is being fractured. The material is held in a frac tank and connected by a hose or pipeline to a pump that will flow it down the wellbore at a high pressure to push open the formation and the proppant is used to keep it open. Yes it is used to hold fluids (i.e. Water, Oil, Gas) or used for sand or mud. They have alot more applications then just oil. Any time you need to hold water or other fluids … you can use a frac tank or frac master.
While the tanks are the same the different is what is contain in it. Frac tanks hold unused fluids for fracturing the well. Flowback tanks hold the used fluid that returns or … flows back from the well after fracturing. Yes it is used to hold fluids (i.e. Water, Oil, Gas) or used for sand or mud. They have alot more applications then just oil. Any time you need to hold water or other fluids … you can use a frac tank or frac master.
Fracturing. Flexible Frac Tanks are one of the largest available options for bulk water storage and liquid containment. Built in sizes that can hold as many as 210,000 gallons (approximately 5000 BBL), these tanks are a great option for brine water, frac water, production water and other fracking fluids. Advantages: For recovery of frac fluids, we also offer a Steel Flow Back Tank offered in capacities from 100 to 280 BBL. These robust tanks feature a double-walled exterior, novolac expoxy interior liner, stainless steel piping, and a purge/flush line that allows the tank to be successfully used in oil field locations.
Typical Sizes. Our Flexible Frac Tank Sizes page features some of our typical sizes seen from our frac storage tanks. Designed to offer increased capacities in a single storage tank, these flexible units usually feature sizing that ranges from 20,000 gallons to 210,000 gallons. Frac Tank Information. Some of the most frequently used sizes include 50,000 gallons, 100,000 gallons and 210,000 gallons. See the list below to find the equivalent barrel storage of these tanks. This can greatly decrease your energy, transportation and shipping costs and one collapsible frac tank can equal several steel units.
Capacities: Standard frac tank sizes range from 20,000 to 250,000 gallons. Some of the most frequently used sizes include 50,000 gallons, 100,000 gallons and 210,000 gallons. See the list below to find the equivalent barrel storage of these tanks. This can greatly decrease your energy, transportation and shipping costs and one collapsible frac tank can equal several steel units.