Recognition Sequence. One of the key traits of a restriction enzyme that makes it so valuable to scientists is the fact that restriction enzymes cut at or near a specific sequence of DNA. The DNA sequence recognized by a restriction enzyme is known as the recognition sequence. Most restriction enzymes cut a specific covalent bond within the recognition sequence. Our example enzyme, EcoRI, breaks the covalent bond between the guanine and first adenine nucleotide 
5. recognition - (biology) the ability of one molecule to attach to another molecule that has a complementary shape; molecular recognition drives all of biology, for instance, hormone and receptor or antibody-antigen interactions or the organization of molecules into larger biologically active entities. recognition. n. 1. the act of recognizing or fact of being recognized. 2. acceptance or acknowledgment of a claim, duty, fact, truth, etc. 3. a token of thanks or acknowledgment. 4. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) formal acknowledgment of a government or of the independence of a country. 5
Recognition species concept. The recognition species concept is a concept of species, according to which a species is a set of organisms that recognize one another as potential mates: they have a shared mate recognition system. 
recognition site. (cell and molecular biology). The nucleotide sequence in duplex deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) to which a restriction endonuclease binds initially and within which the endonuclease cuts the DNA. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Restriction sites, or restriction recognition sites, are locations on a DNA molecule containing specific (4-8 base pairs in length) sequences of nucleotides, which are recognized by restriction enzymes. 
Molecular recognition. The ability of biological and chemical systems to distinguish between molecules and regulate behavior accordingly. How molecules fit together is fundamental in disciplines such as biochemistry, medicinal chemistry, materials science, and separation science. molecular recognition. (cell and molecular biology). The ability of biological and chemical systems to distinguish between molecules and regulate behavior accordingly. (chemistry). The (molecular) storage and the (supramolecular) retrieval and processing of molecular structural information and interactions.
Cell recognition. Definition. noun. (1) Mutual recognition between cells, usually by specific complementary interaction between their respective surface molecules or membrane glycoproteins. (2) The process in which a cell recognizes or identifies its environment. Supplement. Cell recognition is one of the ways by which cells communicate with one another. It is possible through specific cellular adhesion molecules on the surface of the cell.