arterio-. a combining form meaning “artery”: arteriosclerosis. artērio-, comb. form of artēria artēría, windpipe 1  ]. Artery. 2  Facebook.  twitter 
Medical Definition of ARTERIOSCLEROSIS. : a chronic disease characterized by abnormal thickening and hardening of the arterial walls with resulting loss of elasticity—compare atherosclerosis. : a chronic disease characterized by abnormal thickening and hardening of the arterial walls with resulting loss of elasticity — compare atherosclerosis. — ar·te·rio·scle·rot·ic \-ˈrae-ˈrä\ tik adjective or. Noun see arteriosclerosis defined For-english language. learners
This process gradually restricts the blood flow to one's organs and tissues and can lead to severe health risks brought on by atherosclerosis, which is a specific form of arteriosclerosis caused by the buildup of fatty plaques, cholesterol, and some other substances in and on the artery walls. 1 Hyperplastic: Hyperplastic arteriosclerosis refers to the type of arteriosclerosis that affects the lumen. 2  Hyaline type: Hyaline arteriosclerosis, also referred to as arterial hyalinosis and arteriolar hyalinosis, refers to lesions that are caused by the deposition of homogenous pink hyaline.
Definition. Arteriovenous malformations are blood vessel defects that occur before birth when the fetus is growing in the uterus (prenatal development). The blood vessels appear as a tangled mass of arteries and veins. An AVM hemorrhage is not as dangerous as an aneurysmal rupture. (An aneurysm is a swollen, blood filled vessel where the pressure of the blood causes the wall to bulge outward.) There is an approximate 10% fatality rate associated with AVM hemorrhage, compared to a 50% fatality rate for ruptured aneurysms.
Full Definition of ARTERIOSCLEROSIS. : a chronic disease characterized by abnormal thickening and hardening of the arterial walls with resulting loss of elasticity — compare atherosclerosis. — ar·te·rio·scle·rot·ic \-ˈrae-ˈrä\ tik adjective or. noun : a chronic disease characterized by abnormal thickening and hardening of the arterial walls with resulting loss of elasticity — compare atherosclerosis. — ar·te·rio·scle·rot·ic \-ˈrae-ˈrä\ tik adjective or. Noun see arteriosclerosis defined For-english language. learners
Arteriosclerosis can occur because of fatty deposits on the inner lining of arteries (atherosclerosis), calcification of the wall of the arteries, or thickening of the muscular wall of the arteries from chronically elevated blood pressure (hypertension). 
We don’t know why AVMs occur. Brain AVMs are usually congenital, meaning someone is born with one. But they’re usually not hereditary. People probably don’t inherit an AVM from their parents, and they probably won’t pass one on to their children. When an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) occurs, a tangle of blood vessels in the brain or on its surface bypasses normal brain tissue and directly diverts blood from the arteries to the veins.
A thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries that interferes with the circulation of the blood. It can be caused by disease and is also associated with high blood pressure and diets that are rich in cholesterol and saturated fats. See also atherosclerosis. arteriosclerosis. n, pl-ses (-siːz). 1. (Pathology) a pathological condition of the circulatory system characterized by thickening and loss of elasticity of the arterial walls.
Arteriovenous fistula. An arteriovenous (AV) fistula is an abnormal connection between an artery and a vein. Normally, blood flows from your arteries to your capillaries to your veins. Nutrients and oxygen in your blood travel from your capillaries to tissues in your body. With an arteriovenous fistula, blood flows directly from an artery into a vein, bypassing some capillaries. When this happens, tissues below the bypassed capillaries receive a diminished blood supply. Arteriovenous fistulas usually occur in the legs, but can develop anywhere in the
arterial sclerosis, coronary-artery disease, hardening of the arteries, induration of the arteries. atherosclerosis, coronary artery disease-a stage of arteriosclerosis involving fatty deposits (atheromas) inside the arterial walls, thus narrowing the arteries. arteriosclerosis. n, pl-ses (-siːz). 1. (Pathology) a pathological condition of the circulatory system characterized by thickening and loss of elasticity of the arterial walls.