Step 1: Preheat a barbecue grill or flatplate on medium-high. Brush both sides of the steak with olive oil to prevent it from sticking to the barbecue. This is better than brushing the barbecue, as it prevents the oil from burning. Excess oil can create smoke and cause flare-ups on the barbecue. 
Place your steak into pan and time 30 seconds, then turn the steak. again time 30 seconds then turn it. Continue to turn steak every 30 seconds until you get rare medium or well done. once cooked let meat rest for 3 minutes. 1 Rather than oiling the pan, brush the steak with oil to prevent it sticking. 2  Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 3  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out.
Medium Steaks: An Unhappy Compromise. The best thing you can say about a steak cooked medium is that it's the steak least likely to offend, which is really not saying much. The inside of a medium steak is mostly gray with a small amount of pink at the center and no red. So let's say you're throwing a grill party. 
A medium rare steak should be warm through the middle with a hint of red. Most of the center of the steak should be pink. The sides should be well browned, the top and bottom caramelized to a dark brown color with good grill marks. This steak should have a firm surface but give towards the middle. A Well Done steak is the hardest to cook. The secret is to do it low and slow. It's the only way to prevent burning while fully cooking it through the middle. Grill this steak over a medium heat between 10 and 12 minutes per side. Most people will tell you that this is the steak for people who don't like steak. While there is some truth to that, it is a popular request so, any good griller needs to know how to do it
About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). When I order a steak in a restaurant I ask for medium rare...closer to rare than medium and my steak always (or almost always) comes to me perfectly cooked. The key is to order the correct cut of steak for grilling and the correct cooking time. Otherwise you'll receive hot shoe leather.
1 Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 2  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 3  Always use tongs to handle steak as they won't pierce the meat, allowing the juices to escape. 1 Rather than oiling the pan, brush the steak with oil to prevent it sticking. 2  Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 3  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out.
That video Cooking Class will teach you how to make a delicious Steak-The steak is sauteed in oil and finished basted with butter-You will learn how to identify different cooking temperatures-Rare Steak-Medium Rare Steak-Medium Steak-Medium well Steak-Well Done steak-All the cuts below can use that cooking technique. How to Cook a Steak - 5 Tips to cook the perfect Steak-Rare-Medium Rare-Medium-Medium Well.
1 4 Flip the steak using tongs or a spatula and cook until it’s medium rare, about 3 to 4 minutes more. 2  To check for doneness, use your finger to press on the steak: It should be firm around the edges but still give in the center. 