Liver function tests (LFTs or LFs) are groups of blood tests that give information about the state of a patient's liver. These tests include prothrombin time (PT/INR), aPTT, albumin, bilirubin (direct and indirect), and others. Liver transaminases (AST or SGOT and ALT or SGPT) are useful biomarkers of liver injury in a patient with some degree of intact liver function. 
Liver tests (LTs) are blood tests used to assess the general state of the liver or biliary system. Few of these tests actually measure how well the liver or biliary system is functioning, but rather reflect the presence of damage or inflammation. 
Liver panel or liver function tests also measure bilirubin, a waste product that forms when red blood cells break down. This test measures total bilirubin and direct bilirubin. Total bilirubin is the amount of bilirubin in your blood. Direct bilirubin measures the bilirubin that is made in your liver. A liver panel checks the health of your liver and can help diagnose liver damage or disease. The panel consists of these tests: Albumin. Albumin is a protein made in the liver. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP). ALP is an enzyme found in high quantities in your liver, bile duct, and elsewhere in your body. Alanine transaminase (ALT). ALT is another enzyme found in your liver. Aspartate transaminase (AST)
Liver enzyme tests, formerly called liver function tests (LFTs), are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. They can also check how well the liver is working. Most often, a liver test panel is ordered as a routine lab test. Many doctors check the liver in new patients or during annual physicals. Your doctor may conduct liver enzyme and liver function tests if: 1  You are taking a medication that can harm the liver. 2  You have liver disease.
A liver panel is a group of tests that are performed together to detect, evaluate, and monitor liver disease or damage. The liver is one of the largest organs in the body and is located in the upper right-hand part of the abdomen and behind the lower ribs. A variety of diseases and infections can cause acute or chronic damage to the liver, causing inflammation (hepatitis), scarring (cirrhosis), bile duct obstructions, liver tumors, and liver dysfunction.
Definition. Elevated liver enzymes may indicate inflammation or damage to cells in the liver. Inflamed or injured liver cells leak higher than normal amounts of certain chemicals, including liver enzymes, into the bloodstream, which can result in elevated liver enzymes on blood tests. 
Liver blood tests are some of the most commonly performed blood tests. These tests can be used to assess liver functions or liver injury. An initial step in detecting liver damage is a simple blood test to determine the level of certain liver enzymes (proteins) in the blood. Under normal circumstances, these enzymes mostly reside within the cells of the liver. 
A liver (hepatic) function panel is a blood test to check how well the liver is working. This test measures the blood levels of total protein, albumin, bilirubin, and liver enzymes. High or low levels may mean that liver damage or disease is present. The liver serves several important functions in the body, including changing nutrients into energy for the body and breaking down toxic substances. Your doctor may order a liver function panel if you have symptoms of liver disease.
Liver function tests are blood tests used to help diagnose and monitor liver disease or damage. The tests measure the levels of certain enzymes and proteins in your blood. Some of these tests measure how well the liver is performing its normal functions of producing protein and clearing bilirubin, a blood waste product. Other liver function tests measure enzymes that liver cells release in response to damage or disease. Abnormal liver function test results don't always indicate liver disease. Your doctor will explain your results and what they mean. 1  Why it's don