Don't worry if your early periods have longer cycles or don't follow a schedule. This irregularity is normal for at least the first 2 years. Your periods should become more regular within two years after you start menstruating. Some teens have a 28-day cycle; some have a 24-day cycle; others have a 30- to 34-day cycle. All of these are normal. For young teens, cycles can range from 21 to 45 days. For adults, it can be 21-35 days. If your period is much shorter or longer, or if your period does not become regular after two years, see your primary health care provider
You should get your period once every month. Your menstrual cycle should be about 28 days. This means that there should be about 28 days from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. 28 days is an average number, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days is normal. Your period will usually last between 3 and 7 days. The amount of blood flow you have will probably be different each day.
The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period. The Association estimates that ovulation occurs anywhere between 11-21 days after the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), or 12-16 days from when you expect the next menstrual period to start. Order a Fertility Kit or Monitor.
Anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. A menstrual cycle is counted from the first day of bleeding in one month to the first day of bleeding in the next month. The average menstrual cycle is about 28 days, but cycles that are 21–45 days also are normal. It may take 6 years or more after your period starts for your cycle to get regular. If you do this every month, you may notice a pattern. It may become easier to tell when you will get your next period.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: My periods last 7-8 days (the 8th day only being spotting mostly). Yours is a bit long, however everyone is different and the average is anywhere from 3-7 days. I would recommend that you consult with your doctor/gyn to see what they say if you think yours lasts too long. Good luck :). 
On an average a period lasts between 3 to 5 days. It is normal for a girl to have irregular periods in the beginning. During this time, the duration of her periods may vary from as short as 2 days to as long as 7 days. It can take up to a year for periods to become regular. 
A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. 1 Your periods become very irregular after having had regular, monthly cycles. 2  Your period occurs more often than every 21 days or less often than every 35 days. 3  You are bleeding for more than 7 days. 4  You are bleeding more heavily than usual or using more than 1 pad or tampon every 1 to 2 hours.
But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart. 1 Your periods become very irregular after having had regular, monthly cycles. 2  Your period occurs more often than every 21 days or less often than every 35 days. 3  You are bleeding for more than 7 days. 4  You are bleeding more heavily than usual or using more than 1 pad or tampon every 1 to 2 hours.
Your cycle begins on the first day you have regular bleeding. Spotting doesn’t count. For example, Cycle Day 1 is the first day of your period; Cycle Day 2 is the second day of your period, Cycle Day 3 is the third day of your menstrual flow, and so forth. 