The Ashanti people rich in gold later developed the powerful Ashanti Confederacy or Ashanti Empire (now Ashanti autonomous region) and became the dominant presence on the Gulf of Guinea region. Ashanti gave little to no deference to colonial authorities. In 1926, the British permitted the repatriation of Ashanti King Asantehene Prempeh I – whom they had exiled to the Seychelles in 1896 – and allowed him to adopt the title Kumasehene, but not Ashanti Asantehene (the Title of the Ashanti King).
Ashanti Empire/ Asante Kingdom (18th to late 19th century). Back to Online Encyclopedia Index. The Ashanti Empire was a pre-colonial West African state that emerged in the 17th century in what is now Ghana. The Ashanti or Asante were an ethnic subgroup of the Akan-speaking people, and were composed of small chiefdoms. 
Ashanti is in the center and Kumasi is the capital. The Ashanti are the largest tribe in Ghana and one of the few matrilineal societies in West Africa. The area of Ashanti is 9400 square miles with a population of about one million. The Ashanti people have always been known as fierce fighters. The Ashanti are a major ethnic group of the Akans (Ashanti and Fanti) in Ghana, Ghana is a fairly new nation, barely more than 50 years old, and Ghana was previously called the Gold Coast.
It is believed that the Ga-Dangmes Kingdom at AYAWASO was the first Kingdom in GHANA. It is interesting that Queen Dode (Dodi) Akaibi's name DODI is a Hebrew Name. Also, the name of the hunter, KADI, who found a group people at OSU DOKU and introduced them to the Nungua Mantse, is a Hebrew name. Throughout the culture and history of the Ga-Dangmes of Ghana, is a very strong conclusive evidence that they are direct descendants of the Hebrew Israelties that migrated to West Africa by way of Egypt, Ethiopia, Sudan, Lake Chad, Ile-Ife, Dahome, Togo and to the Gold Coast (modern Ghana).
The nomenclature Ashanti (Pronunciation of Ashanti) derives from the 1670s as the Ashanti went from being a tributary state to a centralized hierarchical kingdom. Ashanti Emperor Asantehene Osei Tutu I, military leader and head of the Oyoko clan, founded the Ashanti kingdom. Ashanti gave little to no deference to colonial authorities. In 1926, the British permitted the repatriation of Ashanti King Asantehene Prempeh I – whom they had exiled to the Seychelles in 1896 – and allowed him to adopt the title Kumasehene, but not Ashanti Asantehene (the Title of the Ashanti King).
The Ashanti Empire expanded its borders from Ashanti to include the Brong-Ahafo, Central region, Eastern region, Greater Accra region, and Western region, of present-day Ghana. The Ashanti (also spelled Asante) Empire (1701–1957) was an Akan people empire and kingdom of what is now often called the Ashanti Region.
The name ASHANTI has Hebrew origins, the TI at the end means race of or people of, Ashan was the name of a city located in southern Israel Judah (Joshua 15:42 - 19:7 / 1st chronicles 4:32 - 6:59). The word Ashan in Hebrew means smoke city / burning city. 
The Ashanti (also known as Asante) people live in Southern Ghana. There are about 1.5 million people in the Ashanti nation. They speak a dialect of Twi, called Asante. They are world famous goldsmiths and are best known in America for their Kente cloth, a fabric originally worn by the royalty of the Ashanti. Historians can trace the beginnings of the Ashanti people to the thirteenth century, however, they did not hold great power until the end of the seventeeth. According to Ashanti legend, a golden stool descended from heaven and rested on the knees of the first Ashanti king called the Ashantehene.
Ashanti. The Ashanti live in central Ghana in the Rainforests of West Africa approximately 150 miles away from the coast. The Ashanti are a major ethnic group of the Akans (Ashanti and Fanti) in Ghana, Ghana is a fairly new nation, barely more than 50 years old, and Ghana was previously called the Gold Coast.