The above symptoms may quickly worsen and indicate severe dehydration with signs and symptoms are developing; severe dehydration may include the following: 1  Severely decreased urine output or no urine output. 2  The urine, if any, produced is concentrated and a deep yellow or amber color.
Symptoms of dehydration include thirst, headache, general discomfort, loss of appetite, dry skin, decreased urine volume, confusion, unexplained tiredness, and irritability.
The urine will become concentrated and more yellow in color. As the level of water loss increases, more symptoms can become apparent. The following are further signs and symptoms of dehydration.
Dehydration symptoms depend largely on the severity of the fluid loss. Symptoms increase and worsen as mild to moderate dehydration progresses to severe dehydration, which is a medical emergency that requires immediate medical attention. Symptoms of mild to moderate dehydration include: 1  Dry mouth.
Severe dehydration, a medical emergency, can cause: 1  Extreme thirst. 2  Extreme fussiness or sleepiness in infants and children; irritability and confusion in adults. 3  Very dry mouth, skin and mucous membranes. 4  Little or no urination — any urine that is produced will be darker than normal.
If you're a healthy adult, you can usually treat mild to moderate dehydration by drinking more fluids, such as water or a sports drink (Gatorade, Powerade, others). Get immediate medical care if you develop severe signs and symptoms such as extreme thirst, a lack of urination, shriveled skin, dizziness and confusion.
Not all people, especially the elderly, may experience or be aware of thirst in the early stages of dehydration. Other symptoms may include dry mouth, dry lips, sunken eyes, inability to make tears and little or no urine production. In ...
In infants symptoms of dehydration may include a sunken fontanel (soft spot) on the top of the head, no tears with crying, and fewer wet diapers. Other symptoms can include headache, rapid heartbeat, fatigue, weakness, lightheadedness, dizziness, and dry skin.
Symptoms of dehydration vary between individuals depending on the underlying cause. Dehydration symptoms can be acute and appear relatively suddenly, such as during or after an illness involving repeated vomiting and diarrhea.