Ceramic tile is the most affordable tile variety, and the cost to repair tile when it is ceramic or porcelain is much lower than with a more expensive material like natural stone. The relative cost of your tile when you installed it compared to other models will remain the same for repair. 
The materials for the average small bathroom remodel will cost between $8,000 and $10,000. This includes new fixtures like a new toilet, new sink, and a new bathtub. It also includes the cost of new tiling, new cupboards, and a countertop for the sink. Typical Hourly Rate = $50-$75 per hour. When you are remodeling a small bathroom, you need to make sure that your costs are always in the forefront of your mind. Using this guide, you will be able to develop a reasonably accurate estimate of how much a small bathroom remodel costs.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Repair Tile! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Tile Repair project. For a basic 1 repair project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Repair Tile ranges between $172.84 - $337.06 per repair. To estimate costs for your project: 1
Even with your basic small bathroom, a full bathroom remodel can run to up to $8000 in expenses-this is usually the cost estimated if you're hiring a contractor to do the work for you, which may seem like a lot but in the end it does save you a lot of time and frustration. If your bathroom remodeling involves changing plumbing bathroom fixtures, this ranges between $1,000 and up if the job is more complicated (for example if you have to change and / or move the plumbing around).
1 According to an annual construction cost survey by Remodeling Magazine, a mid-range remodel of a 5x7-foot bathroom averages $14,109-$18,864; for an upscale expansion of a 5x7 bathroom to 9x9-feet within the existing house footprint, costs run $46,865-$59,456. We had to gut out all of the old fixtures and we extended the bathroom out 2 feet into the walk in closet. We purchased a Rinnai water heater for about $1,200, bought a large oval deep bathtub and had a friend jet it, total cost about $700. The big cost was tiling everything with ornate tile.
So what are the average costs of bathroom remodeling? This is a hard question to answer as prices range anywhere from $5,000 up to $30,000 depending on the amount of work and change you want to implement into your bathroom remodeling project. If your bathroom remodeling involves changing plumbing bathroom fixtures, this ranges between $1,000 and up if the job is more complicated (for example if you have to change and / or move the plumbing around).
Bathroom Fan Repair Costs. A fully functioning, quality fan is a necessary amenity in bathrooms everywhere. In addition to what fans provide in comfort, they also add longevity to tile, linoleum and wood by removing steam from the air. First and foremost, the repair of a bathroom fan could cost nothing at all. As with any ventilation fan, bathroom fans can become clogged over time, greatly restricting the air flow into the vent itself.
The major expense here, as you might guess, will be the price of the toilet itself. If you can deliver the toilet to your home alone, then the installation cost will be minimal. On average, the cost of a new toilet as well as installation comes in between $360 and $492. Bathroom remodels can include everything from painting the walls to installing a brand new tub. On average, most homeowners will pay between $8,265 and $11,426 to remodel their existing bathrooms. Not only will you have to purchase the tub itself, you will need to install surrounds and have a plumber come by for the installation. If you are just replacing the tub, and the surround can stay, your price will be lower than average. If you're having a customized surround built, expect to pay around $3,160.
1 Total costs will depend on the extent of the damage and the ease of access to the joists (through a basement or crawlspace), but in general sistering averages $100-$300 or more per joist, and could run $1,000-$3,000 or more to repair a tilted, wavy or bouncy floor under an average room. 
On average, a bathroom remodeling job will cost you around twice as much as the materials cost you. For a small bathroom of roughly 100 square feet, labor costs could run an average of $12,000 or $13,000 on the high end. This would include the labor to completely redo tile, completely install new fixtures, complete any necessary wiring and plumbing, and have everything inspected afterward. Typical Hourly Rate = $50-$75 per hour. When you are remodeling a small bathroom, you need to make sure that your costs are always in the forefront of your mind. Using this guide, you will be able to develop a reasonably accurate estimate of how much a small bathroom remodel costs.