The Power to Suspend Sentences. Although many states had passed probation laws, beginning with Massachusetts in 1878, probation was not established at the federal level until much later. For many years the federal courts had used a form of probation through suspending sentences. 
The National Probation Service for England and Wales is a statutory Criminal Justice Service, mainly responsible for the supervision of offenders in the community and the provision of reports to the criminal courts to assist them in their sentencing duties. From this developed the system of releasing offenders on the condition that they kept in touch with the missionary and accepted guidance. In 1907 this supervision was given a statutory basis which allowed courts to appoint and employ probation officers. The Service, at the start of 2004, had some 18,000 staff.
1 Re-Entry Resource Directory-A resource for offenders under supervision, probation officers, and judges of local and state resources that may be used to assist offenders with employment and educational opportunities, as well as other resources and services that may benefit offenders. Florida Felony Probation Information. 1 
An offender on probation is ordered to follow certain conditions set forth by the court, often under the supervision of a probation officer. During this testing period, an offender faces the threat of being sent back to prison, if found breaking the rules. By 1951, all the states in the United States of America had a working probation system and ratified the Interstate Compact Agreement. In 1959, the new states of Alaska and Hawaii, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories of the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa ratified the act as well.
Answer: Prohibition officially began in the United States on January 16, 1920, a full year after the ratification of the 18th amendment. The 18th amendment prohibited the sale, manufacture, and transportation of alcohol. Interestingly enough, it did not prohibit the consumption of alcohol.
The United States Probation Office. The first probation law in the United States was enacted by the Massachusetts legislature on April 26, 1878, but it was not until March 4, 1925, when the first statute providing for federal probation officers was signed by President Coolidge. The experience requirements were at least one year in paid probation work or at least three years in paid systematic and organized social work with an established agency. The age requirement was 21 through 54 and retirement was age 70. Enactment of the 1925 law did not bring probation officers into immediate existence. First, competitive examinations had to be held, which were not announced until August of 1926. A list of eligibles first became available in January of 1927, and the first salaried probation officer was appointed in April of 1927
The PO will also conduct an interview that is part of the Risk/Needs assessment.   Some of the the things that I did not enjoy when my probationers did at the first meeting:   1) Show up late 2) Lie 3) Start any sentence with, I shouldn't even be on probation. .; I didn't do this. . 4) Answer a cell phone. 