top. You must be 18 years of age or older in order to make your 1st jump. A picture I.D. will be required when checking in the day of your jump. Driver's licenses, passports, and military ID’s are acceptable forms of identification. (Sorry, under no circumstances do we allow jumpers under the age of 18.). Skydiving has always been a weather-dependent sport. The staff at Carolina Skydiving is comprised of highly accomplished skydivers/instructors who possess over 100 years of combined jumping experience; however, we cannot control the weather. We have tried, but to no avail.
The tandem is a great jump. I’d get video too. I made one tandem in June of 2005. If you are looking at skydiving as a one time thing, something to check off your life’s to do list then go right for a tandem. If you know you want to be a skydiver right now then go for a tandem or start student training. Some will let you jump at 16 years old if you have parental consent. Contact your local dropzones directly to find out what they require. If you can't jump right now, try a wind tunnel. they are a lot of fun too! There are a few websites you need to check out to get good info on skydiving.
Best Answer: Most dropzones in the US will ask that you are 18 years old. Some will let you jump at 16 years old if you have parental consent. Contact your local dropzones directly to find out what they require. If you can't jump right now, try a wind tunnel. they are a lot of fun too! There are a few websites you need to check out to get good info on skydiving.
You must be at least 16 and if you are 16 then you need a parent or guardian to sign you up. If your any else age above your fine. For more information go on Google and type i … n skydiving in Australia and you should get for info. Check out Skydive Twin Cities. www.skydivetwincities.com You can jump at 16 with parental consent. Without consent you must be 18. In the UK, skydivers must be at least 16, but all skydivers under 18 must have
At most Drop Zones you must be at least 18 years of age and have a valid picture ID. Parents cannot sign for jumpers under 18 years of age under any circumstances. Yet there a … re still some Drop Zones outside of the U.S. that will allow jumpers who are at least 16, only with the permission of a parent. Check out Skydive Twin Cities. www.skydivetwincities.com You can jump at 16 with parental consent. Without consent you must be 18. In the UK, skydivers must be at least 16, but all skydivers under 18 must have
There are various regulations which may vary depending on where you live and the dropzone you have chosen. In most cases you will need to be 18 years old to start skydiving. If you are 16-18 years old, your parents may give the agreement for you. But again, it depends on the dropzone and country. Some countries may have no regulations, but I would advice you to stay away from the drop zones in them. Photo by gynti_46.
How old do you have to be to skydive? You must be 18 years of age to skydive in the United States. The oldest person we have had skydive with us is 91, but there is no upper age limit. jareyn2002 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. This would usually be 18 years of age. You would, of course need an ID to back up your identity, and you would need to take lessons also. The expense of skydiving is a little high too. Source(s): http://www.skydivingmagazine.com/faq.htm.
At most Drop Zones you must be at least 18 years of age and have a valid picture ID. Parents cannot sign for jumpers under 18 years of age under any circumstances. Yet there a … re still some Drop Zones outside of the U.S. that will allow jumpers who are at least 16, only with the permission of a parent. With Parental Consent forms signed, you can start skydiving from the age of 16, or 18 without (self-signing). If you want to learn to skydive and get qualified, take a AFF cou … rse. If you want to do a no-stress one-off jump, do a tandem skydive.