Currently, Kevlar has many applications, ranging from bicycle tires and racing sails to body armor, because of its high tensile strength-to-weight ratio; by this measure it is 5 times stronger than steel. It is also used to make modern drumheads that withstand high impact. Kevlar is synthesized in solution from the monomers 1,4- phenylene-di amine (para-phenylenediamine) and terephthaloyl chloride in a condensation reaction yielding hydrochloric acid as a byproduct. The result has liquid-crystalline behavior, and mechanical drawing orients the polymer chains in the fiber's direction
Typically kevlar is spun into ropes or fabric sheets that can be used as such or as an ingredient in composite material components. Kevlar is a very strong man made fiber, stronger than many metals. It is used where very high tensile (pulling) strength is needed. Its most famous use may be for body armor, and for military helmets. It is also used to make cut resistant gloves for people that work with sharp items.
Kevlar is a material commonly used to make bulletproof vests as well as Kevlar jeans, Kevlar gloves and Kevlar jackets. If you want to make your own Kevlar clothing, you can buy Kevlar thread and Kevlar fabric quite cheaply online. Click here for Black Kevlar Thread, 125 yards. Kevlar is a para aromatic polyamide (para-aramid) synthetic fiber. Kevlar contains lots of inter-chain bonds which makes it extremely strong. Strands of Kevlar also have aromatic stacking interactions which greatly adds to their strength.
Kevlar is the registered trademark for a para-aramid synthetic fiber, related to other aramids such as Nomex and Technora. Kevlar is synthesized in solution from the monomers 1,4- phenylene-di amine (para-phenylenediamine) and terephthaloyl chloride in a condensation reaction yielding hydrochloric acid as a byproduct. The result has liquid-crystalline behavior, and mechanical drawing orients the polymer chains in the fiber's direction
Kevlar® is an extremely strong material that derives its strength from its spider web-like weave. Stephanie Kwolek and Herbert Blades created this special material in 1965 for the Dupont Company. Since then it has been used in a number of ways. To make Kevlar®, a special weaving method — known as an aramid weave — is used to turn a liquid into a solid. Aramid fibers tend to be difficult to corrode, resistant to heat, and have no melting point. Chlorine can degrade the material, however.
Structure of Kevlar, a para-aramid. Aramid fibers are a class of heat-resistant and strong synthetic fibers. They are used in aerospace and military applications, for ballistic-rated body armor fabric and ballistic composites, in bicycle tires, and as an asbestos substitute. The name is a portmanteau of  aromatic polyamide .
Kevlar is a material formed by combining para-phenylenediamine and terephthaloyl chloride. Aromatic polyamide (aramid) threads are the result. They are further refined, by dissolving the threads and spinning them into regular fibres. When woven, Kevlar forms a strong and flexible material. If layers of the woven Kevlar are combined with layers of resin, the resulting ‘rigid’ material is light and has twenty times the strength of steel. It is also superior to specialist metal alloys.
KEVLAR ®. KEVLAR ® fabrics can be used with, or as a great alternative to carbon fiber or fiberglass. Composites-grade KEVLAR is lightweight, impact resistant, abrasion resistant, heat resistant, and has great strength properties for the most demanding applications. Fibre Glast only carries KEVLAR 49 fabrics. These fabrics are developed specifically for composite reinforcement. They can be used with epoxy, vinyl ester, or polyester resins to create a rigid laminate.