Click to read more below. The trachea (or windpipe) is a wide, hollow tube that connects the larynx (or voice box) to the bronchi of the lungs. It is an integral part of the body’s airway and has the vital function of providing air flow to and from the lungs for respiration. The trachea begins at the inferior end of the larynx in the base of the neck. It is located along the body’s midline, anterior to the esophagus and just deep to the skin, so that it is possible to feel the larynx through the skin of the neck. From its origin at the larynx, the trachea extends inferiorly into the thorax posterior to the sternum....
Trachea. The trachea is a longer section of the respiratory tract, shaped like a tube and approximately 5 inches in length. It has several C-shaped hyaline cartilage rings which are lined with pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium. (2) Those rings keep the trachea open for air all the time
The respiratory system provides oxygen to the body’s cells while removing carbon dioxide, a waste product that can be lethal if allowed to accumulate. There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs... Click to read more below. The cells of the human body require a constant stream of oxygen to stay alive. The main function of the bronchi and bronchioles is to carry air from the trachea into the lungs. Smooth muscle tissue in their walls helps to regulate airflow into the lungs. When greater volumes of air are required by the body, such as during exercise, the smooth muscle relaxes to dilate the bronchi and bronchioles.
For the genus of moth, see Trachea (moth) . The trachea, colloquially called the windpipe, is a tube that connects the pharynx and larynx to the lungs, allowing the passage of air, and so is present in almost all air-breathing animals with lungs. 
Parts of the Respiratory System The Nose or Nasal Cavity The Pharynx The Trachea The Lungs. Gas Exchange The Mechanism of Breathing Breathing Disorders Animation Links. The human respiratory system consists of the lungs and tubes associated with the lungs. It is located in the thorax or chest. 
In Depth: Bronchial Tree. Trachea. The trachea, also called the windpipe, is part of the passageway that supplies air to the lungs. Any prolonged blockage, even for a few minutes, can cause death. 
Upper respiratory tract: This includes the nose, mouth, and the beginning of the trachea (the section that takes air in and lets it out). Lower respiratory tract: This includes the trachea, the bronchi, broncheoli and the lungs (the act of breathing takes place in this part of the system). The organs of the lower respiratory tract are located in the chest cavity.
Trachea: The trachea is also known as windpipe. The trachea filters the air we inhale and branches into the bronchi. Bronchi: The bronchi are the two air tubes that branch off of from the trachea and carry atmospheric air directly into the lungs. Lungs: The main organ of the respiratory system is lungs. Lungs are the site in body where oxygen is taken into and carbon dioxide is expelled out. 