When should the test be done? The test is usually done between 14 and 20 weeks ofpregnancy. How is it done?When should the test be done? This test is done between 11 weeks, 3 days and 13 weeks,6 days of pregnancy.Nuchal translucency screening can also be done jointly with first trimester serum screening (blood test). It measures two hormones called the free beta HCG (human chorionicgonodotrophin) and PAPP-A (pregnancy-associated plasmaprotein-A). It is done throughIt is done though an abdominal ultrasound scan. an abdominal ultrasound scan tomeasure the nuchal translucency together with a bloodtest (about 5ml) to measure the two hormones (free HCGand PAPP-A). 3.Triple Test or Triple-marker Test This is a screening test for Down syndrome.
It is the least accurate screening test for Down syndrome. Using the nuchal translucency ultrasound alone will detect 70-80% of babies with Down syndrome. Using combined first trimester screening (ultrasound and specific blood tests) will detect 80-90% of babies with Down syndrome. At present, these blood tests cannot be used on their own to calculate risk, but must be combined with the nuchal translucency ultrasound. The best time to have the blood test is 10 weeks gestation, however it can be performed at any time between 10 and 13 weeks 6 days gestation.
The nuchal translucency test is a safe and simple test performed towards the end of the first trimester of a pregnancy. It comprises a blood test and an ultrasound scan and is likely to detect approximately 85 – 90 percent of chromosomal abnormalities, the most common of which, is Down Syndrome or Trisomy 21. The blood test measures the amount of free β-HCG and PAPP-A in the mother’s blood stream and ideally should be performed at about 10 weeks gestation. The nuchal translucency ultrasound is performed between 11 weeks 3 days and 13 weeks 6 days gestation but preferably at 12 weeks gestation. The blood test will need to be organised by your treating doctor
5. The nuchal translucency is measured by carrying out an abdominal ultrasound scan from 11 weeks 4 days of foetal age to 13 weeks 6 days. You will be asked to lie on an examination couch. Your doctor would recommend a nuchal translucency scan: 1  to confirm the exact date of the pregnancy and the due date; 2  to confirm the number of foetuses (single or multiple); 3  to confirm that the foetus is growing appropriately and appears to be developing normally;
A nuchal scan (NT Procedure) is a sonographic prenatal screening scan (ultrasound) to help identify higher chances for chromosomal conditions including Down syndrome in a fetus, particularly for older women who have higher risks of such pregnancies. 
An NT scan can't tell you for certain whether or not your baby is affected. What it can do is help you to decide whether or not to have a diagnostic test. This ultrasound scan must take place at between 11 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days of pregnancy, or when your baby is between 45mm and 84mm. Before this the scan is difficult to do because your baby is still so tiny. It would also be too early to combine it with your first trimester blood test. An NT of less than 3.5mm is considered normal when your baby measures between 45mm and 84mm (FASP 2010) . The NT normally grows in proportion with your baby (Nicolaides et al 1999) . The image on the right shows a baby with a normal NT of 1.3mm. This baby will be low risk.
A nuchal translucency ultrasound (commonly called a “nuchal scan” or “NT scan”) is an ultrasound performed between 11.5 and 13 weeks 6 days gestation. It is usually part of an assessment called combined first trimester screening. At present, these blood tests cannot be used on their own to calculate risk, but must be combined with the nuchal translucency ultrasound. The best time to have the blood test is 10 weeks gestation, however it can be performed at any time between 10
2. A nuchal translucency scan (also called first trimester of pregnancy screening) is carried out during weeks 11–13 of a pregnancy. The scan uses ultrasound to screen for Down syndrome, or other chromosomal or inherited conditions in the foetus. Your doctor would recommend a nuchal translucency scan: 1  to confirm the exact date of the pregnancy and the due date; 2  to confirm the number of foetuses (single or multiple); 3  to confirm that the foetus is growing appropriately and appears to be developing normally;
The NT scan is not invasive. The NT scan must be done when you're between 11 and 14 weeks pregnant, because this is when the base of your baby's neck is still transparent. (The last day you can have it is the day you turn 13 weeks and 6 days pregnant.) It's usually offered along with a blood test in first-trimester combined screening options. The NT scan is offered to all pregnant women in the first trimester. The screening is widely available, but because it requires special training and equipment, not all healthcare providers provide it. Ultrasound exam Find out what doctors look for and how ultrasound exams are done.