John Pankow Net Worth: John Pankow is an American actor who has a net worth of $3 million. John Pankow was born in St. Louis, Missouri in April 1957. Pankow attended Northeastern Illinois University. He first appeared in the television series Great Performances in 1980.
$5 Million. James Pankow net worth: James Pankow is an American musician and songwriter who has a net worth of $5 million dollars. James Pankow was born in St. Louis, Missouri, and began playing the trombone in elementary school in Illinois. 
Putzel 2014 NR CC. (29) IMDb 6.4/10. Watch Trailer. In this heartwarming comedy about sex, love, and smoked fish, a neurotic young man who dreams of taking over his uncle's fish emporium on Manhattan's upper west side has his life turned upside down when both he and his uncle fall for the same girl. Putzel is a very special film about losing your way, finding your heart, and discovering your passion. It's about finding your way in a world carved out by others and the joy in becoming the person you were meant to be. It will make you hunger for love and hunger for lox.
He left the university in his junior year after he attended a performance of David Mamet 's The American Buffalo at the St. Nicholas Theater in Chicago. Inspired by the play, he enrolled in the theater's two-year theatrical training program in order to concentrate solely on acting. Mini Bio (1). Born and raised in Chicago, John is the sixth of nine children. He dabbled in drama during high school, but didn't become serious about acting until enrolled at Northeastern Illinois University, where he majored in theater arts.
Chicago turned down a chance to have Frank Sinatra cover one of their most recognizable love songs, because James Pankow didn’t want alter it for Ol’ Blue Eyes. Seems Sinatra came across “Colour My World” at the turn of the 1970s, after its inclusion on Chicago II. The Pankow-penned song would shoot to No. 7 on the Billboard charts in 1971, as sung by the late Terry Kath. 
Pankow is a series regular on the Showtime/BBC series Episodes playing American television executive Merc Lapidus. He played federal agent John Vukovich opposite William Petersen and Willem Dafoe in To Live and Die in L.A.. 
Pankow has also composed most of Chicago's brass arrangements over the years. Although Pankow is not one of the band's principal vocalists, he sang lead vocals for two Chicago songs: You Are On My Mind (from Chicago X, 1976) and Till the End of Time (Chicago XI, 1977). Pankow earned a full music scholarship to Quincy College, where he studied the bass trombone. After completing his first year, he returned home for the summer and formed a band that began to play some live local shows. Not wanting to give up this work, Pankow transferred to DePaul University.
Format: Amazon Instant Video Verified Purchase. Putzel is a very special film about losing your way, finding your heart, and discovering your passion. It's about finding your way in a world carved out by others and the joy in becoming the person you were meant to be. It will make you hunger for love and hunger for lox.
Official Photos ». Born and raised in Chicago, John is the sixth of nine children. He dabbled in drama during high school, but didn't become serious about acting until enrolled at Northeastern Illinois University, where he majored in theater arts. He left the university in his junior year after he attended a performance of David Mamet 's The American Buffalo at the ...