intention to treat. In clinical trials, the principle that holds that the effect of a treatment regimen can be best assessed by evaluating the basis of the intention to treat a subject (i.e., the planned treatment regimen), rather than the actual treatment given. The principle of intention to treat is meant to prevent bias caused by loss of trial participants, which may reflect non-adherence to the protocol and disrupt baseline equivalence established by random assignment.
intention-to-treat analysis. Definitions: 1. method of analyzing results of a randomized controlled trial that includes in the analysis all those cases that should have received a treatment regimen but for whatever reason did not. All cases allocated to each arm of the trial are analyzed together as representing that treatment arm, regardless of whether they received or completed the prescribed regimen. The definition information for intention-to-treat analysis is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students
intention to treat analysis. An analysis in which all trial participants are analysed according to the intervention to which they were allocated, whether they received that therapy or not.
Intent-to-treat analysis is the gold standard for randomized clinical trials (33). In ITT analysis, data from all subjects initially enrolled in a clinical trial are used for the analysis of efficacy and safety. Modified intent-to-treat (modified ITT) analysis includes fewer subjects than ITT analysis, and greater subjects than PP analysis. In a survey, Abraha and Montedor (35) reported that about half of clinical trials use a modified ITT analysis.
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) often suffer from two major complications, i.e., noncompliance and missing outcomes. One potential solution to this problem is a statistical concept called intention-to-treat (ITT) concept. The objective of this article is to give a basic understanding of the ITT concept to the beginners in the field of clinical research. Randomized controlled trials often suffer from two major complications, i.e., noncompliance and missing outcomes. One potential solution to this problem is a statistical concept called intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis. ITT analysis includes every subject who is randomized according to randomized treatment assignment. It ignores noncompliance, protocol deviations, withdrawal, and anything that happens after randomization
For the purpose of analyzing data on efficacy and safety, analysis can be via intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis or by per protocol analysis. ITT analysis refers to the analysis of every single study subject, including subjects with significant deviations from the instructions in the Clinical Study Protocol. Modified intent-to-treat (modified ITT) analysis includes fewer subjects than ITT analysis, and greater subjects than PP analysis. In a survey, Abraha and Montedor (35) reported that about half of clinical trials use a modified ITT analysis.
Intention-to-treat analysis. An intention-to-treat analysis of the results of an experiment is based on the initial treatment assignment and not on the treatment eventually received. 
(Redirected from Intention to treat analysis). An intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis of the results of an experiment is based on the initial treatment assignment and not on the treatment eventually received. ITT is also simpler than other forms of study design and analysis because it does not require observation of compliance status for units assigned to different treatments or incorporation of compliance into the analysis.