The Urethral Caruncle Removal procedure involves the surgical removal of the urethral caruncle. 1  The urethral caruncle is a benign tumor or lesion that arises at the opening, or rather at the lip of the urethra, in females. 2  They are usually small, but can grow up to 2-3 cm in diameter. 
Urethral caruncle is a reddened area involving the posterior margin of the urethral orifice. It is believed to be due to the prolapse of the posterior wall of the urethra. Urethral caruncle is generally asymptomatic and found in postmenopausal women. 
Urethral caruncles are benign, distal urethral lesions that are most commonly found in postmenopausal women, although a case of urethral caruncle has also been described in a male. Urethral caruncles resemble various urethral lesions, including carcinoma. The differential diagnoses of urethral caruncle include urethral diverticulum, urethral prolapse, urethral carcinoma, and periurethral gland abscesses.
Causes of Urethral caruncle. Common causes of Urethral caruncle. 1  Originate from the posterior lip of the urethra, may be described as fleshy outgrowths of distal urethral mucosa. 2  Perimenopausal women. 3  Squamous or transitional epithelium. 4  Some caruncular lesions may look like urethral carcinoma. Common Symptoms of Urethral caruncle. 1  Difficult or painful urination. 2  Blood in the urine. 3  Tenderness or irritation. 4  Soaking in a warm bath. 5  Surgical removal of the caruncle. 6  Painful micturition or dyuspareunia. 7  Bloody spotting with mild trauma. 8  Pedunculated red mass that is tender to touch
A urethral caruncle is a benign fleshy outgrowth at the urethral meatus. It is the most common lesion of the female urethra, occurring primarily in postmenopausal women. The terms urethral caruncle, urethral prolapse, and urethral polyp are sometimes used interchangeably. Technically, urethral prolapse refers to mucosa that is circumferentially everted at the meatus, whereas urethral caruncle refers to eversion of only a portion of the distal urethra, often at the posterior edge.
Urethral caruncle is caused by redundancy of the mucosa combined with laxity of the periurethral fascia, and it may be aggravated by an increase in intra-abdominal pressure and a relative lack of estrogen. Patients may be asymptomatic or may present with urethral bleeding, urinary urgency or frequency, or dysuria. Symptoms of Urethral caruncle. Patients may be asymptomatic or may present with urethral bleeding, urinary urgency or frequency, or dysuria. Unlike a neoplasm, which generally is firm and nontender, a caruncle is soft and may be tender.
A urethral caruncle is a benign polypoid mass of the urethral meatus, most commonly found in postmenopausal women. It is uncommon, but is almost exclusively found in postmenopausal women. A single case has been reported in a man. Aetiology is not well understood. Lack of oestrogen may be a factor. 
If a doctor determines that a urethral caruncle is responsible for a woman's pain, then there are several courses of treatment that may work to ease the symptoms. Anti-inflammatory medications or estrogen creams can help to reduce the pain and swelling in the urethra area. A red, soft lump found on the posterior of the urethra may be referred to as a urethral caruncle. Repeated urinary tract infections may lead to the development of a urethral caruncle. Women with a urethral caruncle may experience pain during intercourse. A sitz bath can be used to alleviate discomfort from a urethral caruncle