Cleaning companies recommend you have your air ducts cleaned in order to reduce health issues and improve the energy efficiency of your system, but how necessary is it? As an air duct cleaning can cost anywhere from about $450 to $1,000, you want to be sure you are getting your money’s worth.
If you do choose to have your air ducts cleaned, be sure that your service provider cleans all parts of the system, because if any contaminated part is not properly cleaned it will re-contaminate the entire system.
Air duct cleaning refers to cleaning various components of heating, cooling and ventilation systems like air ducts, grills, registers, diffusers, heat exchangers, drip pans, heating and cooling coils, air handling unit housing and fan motors etc.
Before having your air ducts treated for mold growth, first be sure that what you are seeing is indeed mold. There are other things that resemble mold that aren’t, so an expert should be consulted to determine whether it is mold or not.
You could pay someone to get your home’s air ducts cleaned if it gives you peace of mind. However, you should definitely do it if you’re in one of the following situations: 1  There’s visible mold growth inside ducts or other HVAC components. 2  There are excessive amounts of dust or dirt.
1 Animals: If there’s evidence of animal infestation or nesting in your ducts or HVAC system, have the animals removed then clean the ductwork and HVAC unit. 2  Mold: If there is visible mold growth inside the ductwork, the ducts and HVAC system should be cleaned.
- Dust, dirt, and oil particles can build up in the ducts and be sent through the home. You should have your ducts cleaned for the following situations: - If you have a problem with moisture in your ducts. If the conditions causing the mold growth in the first place are not corrected, mold growth will recur. - If you are moving into a newly constructed house. There may be construction debris in the ducts such as drywall dust, fiberglass pieces, and sawdust. - If you are having trouble with furnace airflow. - If there is an accumulation of debris in the air registers. Pet dander can often build up in the