A yeast ingredient known as bifida ferment lysate. This same ingredient is the backbone of Estee Lauder’s Advanced Night Repair Concentrate Recovery Boosting Treatment, which is overall a significantly better formula, although not as moisturizing as this cream.
There is very little scientific information on Saccharomyces Lysate, although it is known to be a yeast compound. The Cosmetics Database lists it as a skin-conditioning agent.
Functions: Minerals, in this case copper, are converted by a yeast called Saccharomyces cerevisiae into a bioavailable, low molecular weight glycopeptide. The yeast is then removed and the copper peptide can penetrate the skin. The Cosmetics Database lists it as a skin-conditioning agent. According to CosmeticsCop.com, citing the Global Cosmetic Industry journal, Saccharomyces Lysate is a group of fungi that ferment sugars, and a source of beta-glucan, which is a good antioxidant.
Saccharomyces Lysate (Yeast) Extract. Stimulates oxygen consumption and combats irritation; helps in tissue regeneration. Saccharomyces/Xylinum/Black Tea Ferment. Commonly known as Kombucha. Boosts skin immune function and assists in restoring volume to deficient zones in the skin.
What is L’Oreal’s solution—a yeast ingredient known as bifida ferment lysate. The problem is that there’s no research proving that this specific form of yeast has any anti-aging, regenerating, or gene-stimulating activity when applied to skin.
It is also used in the baking process as a leavening agent; yeast releasing gas into their environment results in the spongy-like texture of breads and cakes. Because of its role in fermentation, humans have known about and used Saccharomyces cerevisiae for a long time.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae (commonly known as baker’s yeast) is a single-celled eukaryote that is frequently used in scientific research. S. cerevisiae is an attractive model organism due to the fact that its genome has been sequenced, its genetics are easily manipulated, and it is very easy to maintain in the lab.