The sebaceous glands are microscopic exocrine glands in the skin that secrete an oily or waxy matter, called sebum, to lubricate and waterproof the skin and hair of mammals. The sebaceous glands are found throughout all areas of the skin except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. There are two types of sebaceous gland, those connected to hair follicles, in pilosebaceous units, and those that exist independently.
Generally, sweat glands consist of a secretory unit consisting of a base rolled into a glomerulum, and a duct that carries the sweat away. The secretory coil or base, is set deep in the lower dermis and hypodermis, and the entire gland is surrounded by adipose tissue. 1 Eccrine sweat glands are distributed almost all over the human body, in varying densities. 2  Its water-based secretion represents a primary form of cooling in humans. 3  Apocrine sweat glands are mostly limited to the axilla (armpits) and perianal areas
• SUDORIFEROUS GLAND (noun). The noun SUDORIFEROUS GLAND has 1 sense: 1. any of the glands in the skin that secrete perspiration. Familiarity information: SUDORIFEROUS GLAND used as a noun is very rare. duct gland; exocrine; exocrine gland (a gland that secretes externally through a duct). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of sudoriferous gland): apocrine gland (a large sweat gland that produces both a fluid and an apocrine secretion; in human beings located in hairy regions of the body).
The endocrine glands, or ductless glands, discharge their secretions (hormones) directly into the blood; they include the adrenal, pituitary, thyroid, and parathyroid glands, the islands of Langerhans in the pancreas, the gonads, the thymus, and the pineal body. submandibular gland (submaxillary gland) a salivary gland on the inner side of each ramus of the mandible. sudoriferous gland (sudoriparous gland) sweat gland. suprarenal gland adrenal gland. sweat gland see
gland 1. n. 1. a. Any of various organs or cell groups, such as the adrenal glands and the salivary glands, that are of endothelial origin and secrete a substance that is used or excreted by the body. b. Any of various organs, such as lymph nodes, that resemble true glands but perform a nonsecretory function. gland. 1. An organ that secretes one or more substances along ducts (exocrine) or into the bloodstream (endocrine). 2. A structure that produces a secretion. See endocrine glands, exocrine glands.
Sudoriferous gland: The sudoriferous (sweat) glands are small tubular structures situated within and under the skin (in the subcutaneous tissue). They discharge sweat by tiny openings in the surface of the skin. 
Sweat glands (also known as sudoriferous or sudoriparous glands, from Latin sudor, meaning sweat), are small tubular structures of the skin that produce sweat. 1 Eccrine sweat glands are distributed almost all over the human body, in varying densities. 2  Its water-based secretion represents a primary form of cooling in humans. 3  Apocrine sweat glands are mostly limited to the axilla (armpits) and perianal areas
In humans, they are found in the greatest number on the face and scalp, and are also found on all parts of the skin except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The type of secretion of the sebaceous glands is referred to as holocrine. In the eyelids, meibomian glands, also called tarsal glands, are a type of sebaceous gland that secrete a special type of sebum into tears. Fordyce spots are ectopic (misplaced) sebaceous glands found usually on the lips, gums and inner cheeks. The sebaceous glands are found throughout all areas of the skin except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. There are two types of sebaceous gland, those connected to hair follicles, in pilosebaceous units, and those that exist independently.
Noun. 1. sudorific-a medicine that causes or increases sweating. sudatory. medicament, medication, medicinal drug, medicine - (medicine) something that treats or prevents or alleviates the symptoms of disease. su·do·rif·ic. adj. Causing or increasing sweat. n. A sudorific medicine.
1 adj, pertaining to a substance or condition, such as heat or emotional tension, that promotes sweating. 2 n, a sudorific agent. Sweat glands are stimulated by cholinergic drugs. The alkaloid pilocarpine is a potent sudorific drug, but it is rarely used for that purpose in modern medicine. Also called diaphoretic. 