See also: Videos of Paramecium. Paramecium is a ciliate protozoan. Ciliates’ bodies are covered with fine cytoplasmic hair-like structures called cilia. Flickering movements of the cilia propel the organism through the water and also create feeding currents. Paramecium is a ciliate. In describing its structure, comparisons will be made with amoeba. It is suggested, therefore, that amoeba is studied first. Paramecium, on the other hand, can take in food only at the cytostome. The cilia in the oral groove create a current of water which wafts the food organisms up to the cytostome where they are ingested in a food vacuole. This food vacuole then follows a specific route through the cytoplasm.
1 You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 2  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 3  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 Upload in Progress. 2  Upload failed. 3  Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels. 4  We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 5  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 6  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.
Because the surrounding water is hypotonic with respect to the contents of the cell, water is transferred across the amoeba's cell membrane by osmosis. Without a contractile vacuole, the cell would fill with excess water and, eventually, burst. Amoebae move and feed by using pseudopods, which are bulges of cytoplasm formed by the coordinated action of actin microfilaments pushing out the plasma membrane that surrounds the cell. The appearance and internal structure of pseudopods are used to distinguish groups of amoebae from one another.
Historically, protozoa were defined as single-celled organisms with animal-like behaviors, such as motility and predation. The group was regarded as the zoological counterpart to the  protophyta , which were considered to be plant-like, as they are capable of photosynthesis. Protozoa, as traditionally defined, are mainly microscopic organisms, ranging in size from 10 to 52 micrometers. Some, however, are significantly larger. Among the largest are the deep-sea dwelling xenophyophores, single-celled foraminifera whose shells can reach 20 cm in diameter.
An amoeba (also ameba, amoeba amœba or) amoeboid is a type of cell or organism which has the ability to alter its, shape primarily by extending and retracting. pseudopods Amoebae move and feed by using pseudopods, which are bulges of cytoplasm formed by the coordinated action of actin microfilaments pushing out the plasma membrane that surrounds the cell. The appearance and internal structure of pseudopods are used to distinguish groups of amoebae from one another.
1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 Upload in Progress. 2  Upload failed. 3  Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels. 4  We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 5  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 6  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.
1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 5  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 Upload in Progress. 2  Upload failed. 3  Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels. 4  We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 5  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 6  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.
A paramecium is a small one celled (unicellular) living organism that can move, digest food, and reproduce. They belong to the kingdom of Protista, which is a group (family) of similar living micro-organisms. Micro-organism means they are a very small living cell. The paramecium is an oval, slipper shaped micro-organism, rounded at the front/top and pointed at the back/bottom. The pellicle, a stiff but elastic membrane that gives the paramecium a definite shape but allows some small changes.
: any of a large genus (Amoeba) of naked rhizopod protozoans with lobed and never anastomosing pseudopodia, without permanent organelles or supporting structures, and of wide distribution in fresh and salt water and moist terrestrial environments; broadly: a naked rhizopod or other amoeboid protozoan. 