For other uses, see Marshmallow (disambiguation) . A marshmallow is a sugar based confection that, in its modern form, typically consists of sugar, water and gelatin whipped to a spongy consistency, molded into small cylindrical pieces, and coated with corn starch. Some marshmallow recipes call for eggs. The traditional marshmallow recipe uses powdered marshmallow root, but most commercially manufactured marshmallows instead use gelatin in their manufacture. Vegetarians and vegans avoid gelatin, but there are versions which substitute non-meat gelling agents such as agar.
MARSHMALLOW Overview Information. Marshmallow is a plant. The leaves and the root are used to make medicine. Don’t confuse marshmallow with the mallow (Malva sylvestris) flower and leaf. Marshmallow leaf and root are used for pain and swelling (inflammation) of the mucous membranes that line the respiratory tract.
Modern marshmallows are a mixture of gelatin and egg whites that have been whipped into a foam and then combined with corn syrup, sugar, and sometimes vanilla or other flavorings. Marshmallows are usually coated in a mixture of corn starch and confectioners sugar to prevent their sugary surface from sticking. From jumbo to miniature, there is a marshmallow to fit every application. Jumbo marshmallows are often used to make smores, while miniature marshmallows are used for hot cocoa, cookies, and other confections. Marshmallows can even be found in a variety of flavors such as vanilla, strawberry, or even peppermint.
Best Answer: The grossest part about marshmallows is most are made with gelatin. And here is what gelatin is made out of: Gelatin is made from by-products of the meat and leather industry, mainly pork skins, pork and cattle bones, or split cattle hides. That is reason enough to never touch them!! Good for you!
Expand for References. Today I found out marshmallows were once made from the sap of marshmallow plants. Whether they are a hot chocolate topping treat, in the form of a sugar-coated critter, or roasting over a campfire, marshmallows are a favorite treat for many people. 
History. Originally, however, marshmallows were made from the root sap of the marsh mallow (Althaea officinalis) plant. It is a genus of herb that is native to parts of Europe, north Africa, and Asia. Marsh mallows grow in marshes and other damp areas. The plant has a fleshy stem, leaves, and pale, five-petaled flowers
Directions. Place the gelatin into the bowl of a stand mixer along with 1/2 cup of the water. Have the whisk attachment standing by. In a small saucepan combine the remaining 1/2 cup water, granulated sugar, corn syrup and salt. Place over medium high heat, cover and allow to cook for 3 to 4 minutes. Turn the marshmallows out onto a cutting board and cut into 1-inch squares using a pizza wheel dusted with the confectioners' sugar mixture. Once cut, lightly dust all sides of each marshmallow with the remaining mixture, using additional if necessary. Store in an airtight container for up to 3 weeks.
* Sugar or Corn Syrup * Egg whites * Gelatin-usually from animals bones or hides, Kosher gelatin is from fish There are Vegan marshmallows -- ones that use real marshmallow extract from the marshmallow plant or use gelatin alternatives. And here is what gelatin is made out of: Gelatin is made from by-products of the meat and leather industry, mainly pork skins, pork and cattle bones, or split cattle hides.