The brain damage that causes cerebral palsy is a result of either: 1  Prenatal disturbance of brain cell migration – genetic and environmental factors disturb brain cell migration as cells move to their appropriate location during brain development. Cerebral palsy is caused by brain injury or brain malformation that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth while the infant’s brain is under
CP is the most common movement disorder in children. It occurs in about 2.1 per 1,000 live births. Cerebral palsy has been documented throughout history with the first known descriptions occurring in the work of Hippocrates in the 5th century BCE. While the symptoms may get more noticeable over the first few years of life, the underlying problems do not worsen over time. Cerebral palsy is caused by abnormal development or damage to the parts of the brain that control movement, balance, and posture.
The cause of cerebral palsy is a brain injury or brain malformation that occurs while the brain is developing — before, during, or after birth. As a result of the brain damage during brain development a child’s muscle control, muscle coordination, muscle tone, reflex, posture and balance can be affected. Cerebral palsy is caused by brain injury or brain malformation that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth while the infant’s brain is under development.
All people with cerebral palsy have problems with movement and posture, and some also have some level of intellectual disability, seizures, and abnormal physical sensations or perceptions, as well as other medical disorders. People with CP also may have impaired vision or hearing, and language, and speech problems. Spastic cerebral palsy is the most common type of the disorder. People have stiff muscles and awkward movements. Forms of spastic cerebral palsy include: 1  Spastic hemiplegia/hemiparesis typically affects the arm and hand on one side of the body, but it can also include the leg.
Even still, some genetic brain disorders are caused by random gene mutations. Environmental exposure to toxins, such as cigarette smoke or pesticides, can cause spontaneous gene mutation. Some genetic defects contribute to brain malformations, which miswire nerve cell connections and lead to cerebral palsy. Although familial cerebral palsy only accounts for approximately 1.6% of all cerebral palsy cases, a parent who has a child diagnosed with cerebral palsy has an increased risk of having a second child develop the condition. In these cases, molecular tests can identify the susceptible gene.
In cases of No CP, signs of impairment similar to cerebral palsy are diagnosed, but the cause is classified by the type of injury that caused the brain damage – traumatic brain injury, shaken baby, or bacterial meningitis, for example. Although familial cerebral palsy only accounts for approximately 1.6% of all cerebral palsy cases, a parent who has a child diagnosed with cerebral palsy has an increased risk of having a second child develop the condition. In these cases, molecular tests can identify the susceptible gene.
1 Cerebral palsy is due to a brain abnormality that does not progress in severity. 2  The causes of cerebral palsy include prematurity, genetic disorders, strokes, and infection of the brain. 3  Taking certain precautions during the pregnancy might decrease the risk of cerebral palsy. 1 Cerebral palsy is acquired at an early age, usually less than a year of age. 2  Cerebral palsy is due to a brain abnormality that does not progress in severity. 3  The causes of cerebral palsy include prematurity, genetic disorders, strokes, and infection of the brain.
While cerebral palsy is not a hereditary condition, researchers have discovered that hereditary factors can predispose an individual to cerebral palsy. Although a specific genetic disorder does not directly cause cerebral palsy, genetic influences can cause small effects on many genes. Genetic influences can also develop gene-to-gene interactions or form complex interactions with multiple environmental influences. Although familial cerebral palsy only accounts for approximately 1.6% of all cerebral palsy cases, a parent who has a child diagnosed with cerebral palsy has an increased risk of having a second child develop the condition. In these cases, molecular tests can identify the susceptible gene.