Invert sugar syrup or inverted sugar syrup is the most popular among the artificial sweeteners, which is widely used in bakery, confectionery, fruit processing and other parts of food industry, as well as in pharmaceutical industry. Invert syrup is an equimolecular mixture of glucose and fructose. The syrup is manufactured as the result of hydrolysis or inversion of the disaccharide sucrose molecule, which splits into glucose and fructose components.
Invert sugar is a golden yellow coloured viscous liquid consisting of equimolecular mixture of glucose and fructose. Being 25% sweeter than regular sugar, this is generally applied as sweetener in food and pharmaceutical industries. 
When basic sugar (or sucrose) is inverted, it is broken down into the two basic elements that make it up: glucose and fructose. Inverted sugar syrup is produced either unintentionally, by adding specific ingredients to a recipe, or intentionally to make a sugar syrup that has many advantages in baking. Honey consists of glucose and fructose. Fondant frosting is inverted sugar syrup with the addition of flavorings and coloring. Inverted sugar syrup is used to make jellies and jams. Inverted sugar syrup tends to attract water molecules. Warming crystallized inverted sugar syrup in a microwave can make it liquid again
Inverted sugar syrup is often made by using basic sugar syrup, also called simple syrup, which is a mix of water and sugar that is slowly cooked and then boiled for about a minute to produce a liquid. Sugar syrup can be made in varying degrees of thickness, so recipes for proportions of sugar to water will differ. Honey consists of glucose and fructose. Fondant frosting is inverted sugar syrup with the addition of flavorings and coloring. Inverted sugar syrup is used to make jellies and jams. Inverted sugar syrup tends to attract water molecules. Warming crystallized inverted sugar syrup in a microwave can make it liquid again
Invert syrup is nothing more complicated than table sugar (sucrose) and water, heated with an acid added to it, typically cream of tartar, citric acid or even lemon juice. The addition of acid causes many of the sucrose molecules to split in two, into their component sugars: glucose and fructose. Corn syrup and invert sugar syrup are roughly equivalent at crystal inhibition. Corn syrup is generally more effective at the job since there’s really nothing in it that will crystallize…the glucose, the maltose or the long chain sugars.
It is similar to high-fructose corn syrup. In technical terms, sucrose is a disaccharide, which means that it is a molecule derived from two simple sugars (monosaccharides). In the case of sucrose, these monosaccharide building blocks are fructose and glucose. The splitting of sucrose is a hydrolysis reaction. The term 'inverted' is derived from the method of measuring the concentration of sugar syrup using a polarimeter.
How to prevent ice crystals from forming in sorbet. Inverted or invert sugar is a mixture of glucose and fructose; it is obtained by splitting sucrose into these two components. The mixture is sold as a viscous liquid and is often referred to as trimoline or invert syrup. Compared to sucrose, inverted sugar is sweeter and its products (glucose and fructose) tend to retain moisture and are less prone to crystallization. The disaccharide sucrose (table sugar) can be split in a hydrolysis reaction The hydrolysis can be induced simply by heating an aqueous solution of sucrose, but catalysts such as lemon juice or cream of tartar can be added to accelerate the conversion.
Inverted or invert sugar syrup is a mixture of glucose and fructose; it is obtained by splitting sucrose into these two components. Compared with its precursor, sucrose, inverted sugar is sweeter and its products tend to retain moisture and are less prone to crystallization. The term 'inverted' is derived from the method of measuring the concentration of sugar syrup using a polarimeter.