Four governors were actually born in Arizona: Thomas Edward Campbell, Sidney Preston Osborn, Rose Mofford, and Bruce Babbitt. Arizona has had four female governors, the most in the United States, and is also the only state in which female governors have served in a consecutive order. Governors who have served the two term limit can run again after four years out of office. Arizona is one of seven states which does not have a lieutenant governor; instead, in the event of a vacancy in the office of governor, the Secretary of State, if elected, succeeds to the office.
The Governor of Arizona is the head of the executive branch of Arizona's state government and the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. Governors who have served the two term limit can run again after four years out of office. Arizona is one of seven states which does not have a lieutenant governor; instead, in the event of a vacancy in the office of governor, the Secretary of State, if elected, succeeds to the office.
A member of the Republican Party, Brewer is the fourth woman, and third consecutive woman, to serve as Governor of Arizona. Brewer previously served as Secretary of State of Arizona from January 2003 to January 2009, when Governor Janet Napolitano resigned after being selected as Secretary of Homeland Security. In early 2002, Brewer created a campaign committee to run for the office of Secretary of State of Arizona, to replace outgoing Arizona Secretary of State Betsey Bayless. Brewer ran against Phoenix Councilman Sal DiCiccio in the primary race.
Twenty-two people have served as governor over 26 distinct terms. All of the repeat governors were in the state's earliest years, when George W. P. Hunt and Thomas Edward Campbell alternated as governor for 17 years and, after a two-year gap, Hunt served another term. Governors who have served the two term limit can run again after four years out of office. Arizona is one of seven states which does not have a lieutenant governor; instead, in the event of a vacancy in the office of governor, the Secretary of State, if elected, succeeds to the office.
by Stan Brown. (Today is the 98th anniversary of Arizona Statehood. The first Governor of the new State of Arizona was George W. P. Hunt, who was a very controversial, polarizing figure in his lifetime, but is remembered today as one of Arizona’s great pioneers.). At the age of 52, in 1911, Hunt was elected Arizona’s first governor and was sworn in on February 14, 1912. He refused a carriage for his inauguration ride and walked a mile to the capitol building, seeking to proclaim himself as a man of the people.
Janice Kay  Jan  Brewer (nee Née; drinkwine Born september, 26) 1944 was the 22nd governor of The.U. s state Of, arizona from 2009 to. 2015 a member of The Republican, Party brewer is the fourth, woman and third consecutive, woman to serve As governor Of. arizona In early 2002, Brewer created a campaign committee to run for the office of Secretary of State of Arizona, to replace outgoing Arizona Secretary of State Betsey Bayless. Brewer ran against Phoenix Councilman Sal DiCiccio in the primary race.
The current governor of Arizona is Jan Brewer (Janice K. Brewer-R). Brewer was Arizona Secretary of State and succeeded to the governorship in 2009 when Governor Janet Napolitano resigned to become US Secretary of Homeland Security. Her current full term will run from January 5, 2011 to January 5, 2015. For a number of decades, the Arizona Territory had its own Governor, the first of which was John … A. Gurley, who was appointed by President Abraham Lincoln. Interestingly, Gurley died before he could reach the state and assume office there, so John Noble Goodwin was appointed to take his place.
Brewer became Governor of Arizona as part of the line of succession, as determined by the Arizona Constitution. Born in California, Brewer attended Glendale Community College (Arizona) where she received a radiological technologist certificate. She has never earned a college degree. In early 2002, Brewer created a campaign committee to run for the office of Secretary of State of Arizona, to replace outgoing Arizona Secretary of State Betsey Bayless. Brewer ran against Phoenix Councilman Sal DiCiccio in the primary race.
Because of a string of death in office, resignations, and an impeachment, Arizona has not had a governor whose term began and ended because of normal election circumstances since Jack Williams left office in 1975. The current Governor is Doug Ducey, who was elected on November 4, 2014. Governors who have served the two term limit can run again after four years out of office. Arizona is one of seven states which does not have a lieutenant governor; instead, in the event of a vacancy in the office of governor, the Secretary of State, if elected, succeeds to the office.