a cerebrovascular disorder in which the main cerebral arteries at the base of the brain are replaced by a fine network of vessels. It is caused by progressive stenosis of the large-caliber vessels and development of collateral network. An idiopathic disease pattern characterised by bilateral stenosis of the internal carotid arteries, accompanied by a network of abnormal collateral vessels that bypass the stenosis.
a cerebrovascular disorder in which the main cerebral arteries at the base of the brain are replaced by a fine network of vessels. It is caused by progressive stenosis of the large-caliber vessels and development of collateral network. 
Moyamoya disease is a rare blood vessel (vascular) disorder in which a ring of blood vessels at the base of your brain (the circle of Willis) and the uppermost (distal) segments of the arteries supplying the brain progressively narrow, causing blood flow to your brain to become reduced. Appointments at Mayo Clinic Mayo Clinic offers appointments in Arizona, Florida and Minnesota and at Mayo Clinic Health System locations.
General Discussion. Moyamoya syndrome is a progressive disorder that affects the blood vessels in the brain (cerebrovascular). It is characterized by the narrowing (stenosis) and/or closing (occlusion) of the carotid artery inside the skull, the major artery that delivers blood to the brain. 
Moyamoya syndrome is a disease in which certain arteries in the brain are constricted. Blood flow is blocked by the constriction, and also by blood clots (thrombosis). A collateral circulation develops around the blocked vessels to compensate for the blockage, but the collateral vessels are small, weak, and prone to hemorrhage, aneurysm and thrombosis.
Moyamoya disease is a rare, progressive cerebrovascular disorder caused by blocked arteries at the base of the brain in an area called the basal ganglia. The name “moyamoya” means “puff of smoke” in Japanese and describes the look of the tangle of tiny vessels formed to compensate for the blockage. 
- - - - - - -. the word the part of word in MeSH term in MeSH term and description. Hierarchy. - - - - - - -. Moyamoya Disease. Definition: A chronic cerebral vasculopathy primarily occurring in childhood and characterized by slowly progressive carotid artery narrowing and occlusion at the base of the brain. 
Moyamoya Disease. Moyamoya is the Japanese word for “puff of smoke”, which is how the tangled blood vessels caused by the blocked arteries at the base of the brain appear on angiography. Moyamoya disease is a rare, progressive cerebrovascular disorder that generally affects children, although it can affect adults
Moyamoya disease, which is also known as Moyamoya syndrome, is a rare but very serious condition in which the walls of the internal carotid arteries —the vessels that supply blood to important areas of the brain—become thickened and narrowed. 1 The disease gets its name from the wispy, tangled appearance of the new blood vessels that emerge in the brain (as the body attempts to compensate for the inadequate blood supply). 2  Moyamoya disease is a progressive condition, meaning that symptoms worsen over time and the child's chances of suffering a stroke increases.
Definition. Moyamoya is the Japanese word for “puff of smoke”, which is how the tangled blood vessels caused by the blocked arteries at the base of the brain appear on angiography. Moyamoya disease is a rare, progressive cerebrovascular disorder that generally affects children, although it can affect adults