Nerve Pain. Common types of nerve pain you may experience in the mouth can come from your taste and sensory nerves (burning mouth syndrome), inferior alveolar nerve located in the lower jaw, skin of the chin and lower lip, or in your lingual nerve, which descends to the tongue and under the mucous membrane of the mouth. 
The trigeminal nerve, also known as cranial nerve V, is the most important nerve involved in facial sensation and innervates the muscles of mastication. Your tongue also helps you chew, or masticate, your food. Let's review what the cranial nerves do one more time. The facial nerve, also known as cranial nerve VII, is the most important nerve controlling muscles of facial expression. It is responsible for the sensation of taste in the anterior two-thirds of your mouth.
With nerve damage there can be a wide array of symptoms. Which ones you may have depends on the location and type of nerves that are affected. Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 2  Too much sweating (known as hyperhidrosis) or too little sweating (known as anhidrosis). 3  Lightheadedness
Other common causes of nerve damage are trauma, long-term bruxism, and chewing on things like ice and pen caps. Wegiel tells us that oral trauma causing nerve damage will often occur when someone gets into an accident in which his mouth gets hit. Long-term bruxism, meanwhile, essentially means the grinding of one’s teeth. In that case, Wegiel says the person would end up losing his tooth anyway. Although nerve damage in the teeth is the most common type of nerve damage for a dentist to come across, Wegiel says that it is not the only type of nerve damage that people can experience in their mouths. Other types of nerve damage can be the result of neurological problems, including facial nerve paralysis
This is mainly thanks in part to the fact that the facial nerve also conveys the sensation of taste from the anterior two-thirds of your tongue. And even before you put the steak in your mouth, there is saliva inside of your mouth that will help in the process of digestion. Let's review what the cranial nerves do one more time. The facial nerve, also known as cranial nerve VII, is the most important nerve controlling muscles of facial expression. It is responsible for the sensation of taste in the anterior two-thirds of your mouth.
Dear Betty, Without knowing more detail about what caused the nerve damage in your mouth, it is difficult to tell you yes, or no; and if yes, give you an exact time frame. I am a registered nurse, and have dealt with ortho/neuro surgical patients for the past 14 years. 
Trigeminal Nerve or Cranial Nerve V. As you cry tears of joy at the awesome taste in your mouth, all thanks to the facial nerve, you'll want to wipe those tears away from your eyes and cheek. As you wipe away the tears, you can sense the cloth against your skin. Let's review what the cranial nerves do one more time. The facial nerve, also known as cranial nerve VII, is the most important nerve controlling muscles of facial expression. It is responsible for the sensation of taste in the anterior two-thirds of your mouth.
With nerve damage there can be a wide array of symptoms. Which ones you may have depends on the location and type of nerves that are affected. Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 