1 Over-the-counter (OTC) and prescription medicines. 2  The doctor may recommend medicines to help relieve pain and inflammation. 3  They might include OTC pain relievers (analgesics), such as acetaminophen, or a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), such as aspirin, ibuprofen or naproxen.
There are two categories of over-the-counter pain relievers/fever reducers: acetaminophen and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Acetaminophen is used to relieve headaches, muscle aches and fever. It is also found in many other medicines, such as cough syrup and cold and sinus medicines.
Over the counter pain relievers can also be helpful in treating sore throats. Acetaminophen or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are options. NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve). Sinus congestion can be relieved with decongestants, such as pseudoephedrine.
Naproxen. Naproxen, or Aleve, is a common over-the-counter (OTC) medication that a patient can choose to treat her particular condition. Naproxen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that can reduce inflammation that a particular condition causes.
There are two basic types of over-the-counter pain relievers: 1  NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). 2  These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil and Motrin), naproxen sodium (Aleve), and ketoprofen (Orudis KT). 3  Acetaminophen (Tylenol and Panadol).
Before beginning any drug regimen, talk to your doctor about the best option for you. NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) include medicines such as aspirin, ibuprofen and naproxen, which are available in over-the-counter and prescription strength formulas for pain.
A. NSAIDs -- nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs -- are a type of pain reliever. At prescription doses, these drugs also reduce inflammation. Inflammation is the body's response to irritation or injury and is characterized by redness, warmth, swelling, and pain.
Anti-inflammatory medicines can help ease a range of minor aches and pains, from sore muscles to menstrual cramps, and some can help reduce fever. If you experience body aches, this can be a symptom of the flu, so see flu products. Other pain relievers to check out include headache products and menstrual pain relief.