Report Abuse. Civil Liberties are rights that the govt CAN'T take away. (Often thought of as the rights guaranteed in the Bill of Rights). Civil Rights are rights that the govt MUST enforce. (Often those rights not previously mentioned but have become evident that they exist, such as Universal Sufferage). 
But in the context of civil rights law, unlawful discrimination refers to unfair or unequal treatment of an individual (or group) based on certain characteristics, including: 1  Age. 2  Disability. 3  Ethnicity. 4  Gender. 5  Marital status. 6  National origin. 7  Race, 8  Religion, and. 9  Sexual orientation. 
Since the late 1960s, the implications of the term civil rights have undergone a radical transmutation. Originally the term believed in the promise of America and stood for the idea that all individuals should be treated equally under the law, regardless of their race, religion, sex, or any other social categories. Civil rights became the focus of an important social movement in the United States in the mid-1950s. This movement used nonviolent protest as a means of drawing public attention to the injustices of racial segregation and discrimination against black Americans, particularly in the South.
The word Liberty, when used in philosophy, generally refers to what we would now call human rights rather than civil liberties, as they are regarded as universal principles and not subject to a specific national standard. By Tom Head. Definition: Civil liberties are the rights guaranteed to citizens or residents of a country or territory as a matter of fundamental law.
Civil Death Law & Legal Definition. In common law, civil death refers to the loss of all civil rights by a person who had been sentenced to death or declared an outlaw for committing a felony or treason. This included the loss of right to contract, the right to sue, and the right to protection under the law. Most civil death statutes apply only to offenders who have been sentenced to a life term. Civil death also refers to the state of a corporation that has formally dissolved or become bankrupt, leaving an estate to be administered for the benefit of shareholders and creditors.
Personal liberties that belong to an individual, owing to his or her status as a citizen or resident of a particular country or community. The most common legal application of the term civil rights involves the rights guaranteed to U.S. citizens and residents by legislation and by the Constitution. Civil rights protected by the Constitution include Freedom of Speech and freedom from certain types of discrimination. Another issue that has arisen in the courts with respect to civil rights is the limitations placed upon Section 1983 actions against governmental officials for violations of constitutional rights. For instance, in Board of County Commissioners of Bryan County, Okla. v. Brown, 520 U.S. 397, 117 S. Ct. 12382, 137 L. Ed.
Also Known As: The term civil rights is a near-synonym, but often specifically refers to the rights sought by African Americans during the American civil rights movement. By Tom Head. Definition: Civil liberties are the rights guaranteed to citizens or residents of a country or territory as a matter of fundamental law.
However, within these countries, Louisiana, Quebec, and Puerto Rico exhibit the influence of French and Spanish settlers in their use of civil law systems. In the United States, the term civil law has two meanings. One meaning of civil law refers to a legal system prevalent in Europe that is based on written codes. 
Chapter Summary. The term “civil rights” refers to the rights of all Americans to equal treatment under law. The history of civil rights in America is the struggle of various groups to be free from discriminatory treatment. 
And, much like the Bill of Rights, they may gain power over time. By Tom Head. Definition: The term human rights refers to those rights that are considered universal to humanity, regardless of citizenship, residency status, ethnicity, gender, or other considerations. 