Loki visits Thor on Earth. Loki visits Thor on Earth when he was being captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. when trying to regain Mjoelnir. Mjölnir thor Asks loki what had happened On, asgard But loki lies and tells him That odin had, died in order to keep him. unmotivated 
I just cannot understand such foolish behavior. ”. Loki is the most powerful member of the Assassins Guild and one of the seven Assassins of the Cross. He is apparently totally devoid of emotions (though there is some debate on this topic) and has a hard time fathoming them in others. Abilities. Loki's Sword of Shadows has the ability to become a sort of hook-shot, allowing him to latch onto rough surfaces and swing to unreachable places or dodge attacks. It can also be thrown like a normal dagger.
Loki is from the Norse Pantheon and is the Trickster God. Loki is the son of Odin and brother to Thor. You will never find a family so divided however. Loki is nothing like his family, he seeks to only cause chaos and harm. 
Early Years. The son of Laufey, deceased monarch of the Frost Giants of Jotunheim, the ancient enemies of the Asgardians, Loki utilized time-traveling magics to play a hand in his own origin. 
―Loki and Thor. Loki Laufeyson is the son of Laufey, the ruler of the Frost Giants of Jotunheim, but shortly after his birth, he was abandoned and left to die. Found by the Asgardian king Odin, Loki was raised by Odin and his wife Frigga as an Asgardian prince, along with their biological son Thor. 
Game Unit. Loki at Valhalla. The Loki appears in the StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty mission,  Engine of Destruction . It is located in the fourth base on the right side of the map. It is dormant and invincible until a player unit moves next to it. 
Loki Laufey is the adopted brother of Thor, and son of Odin. Loki was born a Frost Giant, the race of the mortal enemies of Asgard. Odin adopted Loki and raised him as his own. He grew up with Thor and was raised as a prince his entire life. During the events of the movie Thor, Loki showed signs of caring for his brother. 
This article is about the god of mischief. For his uncle, the personification of fire, see Logi. Loki is the Norse god of fire, as well as trickster. He is the son of two giants, Farbauti (fárbauti cruel) striker And (laufey Or nal nál which, means needle implying that she was skinny.). and weak 
Definition of LOKI. : a Norse god who contrives evil and mischief for his fellow gods. ADVERTISEMENT. Old Norse. 
Trivia. 1  Loki is based on the god of mischief in Norse mythology. 2  In the myths and legends circulating Loki, he was not adopted by Odin and his biological father was the giant Farbauti and Laufey was his mother. 3  These concepts were invented by co-creator Stan Lee and Jack Kirby out of creative liberty. Thor: The Dark World Prelude #2. Loki is taken back to Asgard as prisoner. Odin tells him that The boy I knew is dead. What remains is a creature I do not recognize and the reason Loki is still alive is because Frigga still thinks of Loki as a son.