The most common side effects reported by patients in the FDA‐approved pivotal study were soreness and bruising. Just three days after treatment, patients rated their pain as minimal (2.7 on a scale of 0 to 10; 0=no pain, 10=extreme pain) and most (82%) felt pain only with touch or pressure to the area treated. This minimal pain improved quickly with time. Over 90% of patients had no bruising at four weeks.
Washington Institute of Dermatologic Laser Surgery is one of the first practices in the world to offer CELLFINA Cellulite Reduction for patients interested in eliminating cellulite. CELLFINA™ is an FDA-approved treatment for the long-term improvement in the appearance of cellulite on the buttocks and thighs.
In only three days after treatment, patients rated their pain as minimal (2.7 on a scale of 0 to 10; 0=no pain, 10=extreme pain) and most (82%) felt discomfort only with touch or pressure to the treatment area.
Just three days after treatment, patients rated their pain as minimal (2.7 on a scale of 0 to 10; 0=no pain, 10=extreme pain) and most (82%) felt pain only with touch or pressure to the area treated. This minimal pain improved quickly with time. Over 90% of patients had no bruising at 4 weeks.
Results can be seen in as little as three days after treatment. At three months, 85 percent of patients were satisfied, and after one year, 94 percent were satisfied, surpassing patient satisfaction rates versus other leading cellulite treatments.*.
One treatment costs $2,500 to $5,000 depending on the number of dimples and the physician’s geographical region. A few offices will receive equipment in the coming weeks, but by spring, Cellfina will be available nationally. For more about cellulite, check out:
Within 3 days of the treatment, most patients say they notice a smoother appearance and smaller, fewer dimples. In an FDA-approved study, 85% of Cellfina patients said they were satisfied with their results after 3 months, while 94% of patients were still satisfied after a year.