Your passcode is your 4-digit PIN provided to you by Medco plus the 6 digit tokencode number on your RSA token. (EX. 1234 + 567890)Please remember that there should be no extra space or other character between these 2 numbers. You are seeing this message as a 2-part authentication to the Client website. Online security is critical to Express-Scripts. Your member's data is protected via this 2-part process. After you enter your user ID and passcode, you will automatically be directed to either eService Delivery (eSD) or the Client Website.
A passcode is your PIN combined with tokencode. For example: If you have set your PIN to be a3baa3ba and the tokencode displayed on your token is 794573, then your passcode is a3baa3ba794573. A. Each time you login, you will be prompted for a user name and a password (or passcode). When you use your OTP token to authenticate, your password/passcode is your (without angle brackets.) The tokencode is the number currently displayed by the OTP token. The passcode must be a single string without spaces.
RSA SecurID (“SecurID”) is a two-factor authentication technology that is used to protect network resources. The authentication is based on two factors -- something you know (a password or PIN) and something you have (an authenticator). RSA Secure ID Vulnerabilities. RSA secureID, which is considered to be the strongest authentication system on the market, was the target of a network breach in March 2011.
A. Your PAC is a complete, static password that can be used for most institutional services. Your OTP PIN is a 8 character alpha-numeric string that must be used with the 'tokencode' produced by your OTP RSA SecurID token. A. Each time you login, you will be prompted for a user name and a password (or passcode). When you use your OTP token to authenticate, your password/passcode is your (without angle brackets.) The tokencode is the number currently displayed by the OTP token. The passcode must be a single string without spaces.
During the SecurID authentication process, users must submit their username and passcode using an HTML form. The RSA Authentication Manager authenticates the identity of each user through a server that is registered with the Authentication Manager as a client (RSA Authentication Agent). Oracle Access Manager supports all RSA SecurID token form factors, both hardware and software-based. These tokens algorithmically, based on an internal clock or event, generate tokencodes with unpredictable values. Together, the user's PIN and the SecurID tokencode become the user's Passcode.
Access Manager 11.1.2 integrates with RSA components to provide SecurID authentication. RSA SecurID authentication is based on two factors: something the user knows and something the user has: Something the User Knows: This is a secret personal identification number (PIN), similar in concept to a personal bank code PIN. Oracle Access Manager supports all RSA SecurID token form factors, both hardware and software-based. These tokens algorithmically, based on an internal clock or event, generate tokencodes with unpredictable values. Together, the user's PIN and the SecurID tokencode become the user's Passcode.
1 Enter PASSCODE: Enter the the code that was generated when you entered 0000 in the RSA SecurID app. 2  Note: This is a temporary passcode used only when you're creating your PIN. 3  To continue you must enter a new PIN. 4  This is the PIN you will enter in the RSA SecurID app on your phone in the future. 1 Note: This is a temporary passcode used only when you're creating your PIN. 2  To continue you must enter a new PIN. 3  This is the PIN you will enter in the RSA SecurID app on your phone in the future. 4  Look for the next question and prompt carefully, it's often overlooked.
This scheme authenticates the user on an RSA ACE/Server. When challenged, the user enters a password that is a combination of two numbers: a personal identification number (PIN), supplied by RSA, and a token code, which is the number displayed on the RSA SecurID authenticator.
The authenticator is typically a hardware token (such as a USB token, smart card or key fob) and the software token is the RSA Authentication Manager Software that provides the security engine used to verify authentication requests. RSA Secure ID Vulnerabilities. RSA secureID, which is considered to be the strongest authentication system on the market, was the target of a network breach in March 2011.
The passcode is a combination of their user’s PIN and the code that is displayed on the authenticator token at the time of log in. The user ID and pass code are intercepted by the RSA Authentication Agent and presented to the RSA Authentication Manager software which validates the pass code. RSA Secure ID Vulnerabilities. RSA secureID, which is considered to be the strongest authentication system on the market, was the target of a network breach in March 2011.