Apple Cider Vinegar. You can also clear out ear wax by using apple cider vinegar and water. Use a one to one ratio of water and apple cider vinegar to flush the ear with this solution. This will not only help remove the wax, it will also bring back the ear canal’s natural pH level.
In addition to the discomfort, too much ear wax can impair hearing Photo Credit ear close-up image by Dumitrescu Ciprian from Fotolia.com. Ear wax serves an important purpose by trapping debris before it can get further into your ear. But when you accumulate too much ear wax, it can cause discomfort and trouble hearing. With a little vinegar and water, you can easily clean out your ears and remove excess wax.
You may remove wax from your ears by flushing out your ear with water. Use a bulb syringe and lukewarm water. (If you make the water too hot or too cold, you will get very dizzy.) Lean over the sink, gently pulling your outer ear back and out, insert the tip of the bulb syringe in your ear canal, and squeeze the water.
1 Fill an ear dropper with this solution. 2  Tilt your head sideways and put a few drops of this solution into the ear. 3  Leave it for some time, and then tilt your head towards the opposite side to drain out the solution. 4  Using a clean cloth, remove the wax that you can see near the outer ear.
Benefits of White Vinegar in Ears. Vinegar may loosen hardened ear wax. If your ear feels uncomfortable, itchy or painful, it may not be a serious condition. In some cases, ear discomfort may be caused by wax blockage, getting soap or shampoo in the ear, or an accumulation of water from swimming or showering.
Patients can use a fluid mixture and gentle irrigation with a rubber bulb syringe. Common mixtures include a 1:1 mixture of hydrogen peroxide and water, or a 1:1 mixture of rubbing alcohol and white vinegar (acetic acid). Flushing the ear canal every few weeks will often clean the ear and prevent wax impaction.
If you routinely clean your ear out with cotton swabs, you may be irritating the ear canal, making it feel itchy and uncomfortable. Tip your head to one side so your ear canal is facing the ceiling, then use a dropper to drip vinegar down the side of the ear canal to prevent air from getting trapped inside.