It would be impossible to levitate the United States and land it on the moon. There may have been a ship that landed on the moon. There's lots of evidence. Maybe the government is lying. I don't know. I've never been to the moon myself so I can't really tell you. If you really gotta know, go to the moon and find out. 400,000 people were involved in making the Apollo 11 moon landing happen. The Apollo Moon landings were among the most completely documented and observed events in history. The conspiracy theories that claim otherwise are a bunch of nonsense without even a single compelling piece
There have been six manned U.S. landings (between 1969 and 1972) and numerous unmanned landings, with no soft landings happening from 22 August 1976 until 14 December 2013. To date, the United States is the only country to have successfully conducted manned missions to the Moon. A moon landing is the arrival of a spacecraft on the surface of the Moon.
Only during the term of Richard Nixon did humanity ever land on the moon, and after Watergate most people wouldn’t put it past Tricky Dick to fake them to put America in good standing in the Cold War. In this list I have presented some of the proposed evidence to suggest that the moon landings were hoaxes. The theory that the moon landings were hoaxed by the US government to assert their victory in the space race over Russia, is something which has grown in popularity over time. Recent polls indicate that approximately 20% of Americans believe that the U.S. has never landed on the moon
They say Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the Moon on July 20, 1969, and set foot on the surface 6 hours later.This same organization claims there were 5 additional missions which successfully landed on the Moon, and an alleged total of 12 people went for a walk there. 
This episode of a FOX TV show titled *Conspiracy Theory* was aired on February 2001. The Appolo 11 Mission allegedly landed the first humans on the Earth's Moon on July 20th, 1969, at 20:17:39 UTC. This video is present on youtube in 5 different parts. I just concatenated them, appended a short clip of the begining of the Appolo 11 Mission press conference and uploaded the whole thing. 
After the unsuccessful attempt by the Luna 1 to land on the moon in 1959, the Soviet Union performed the first hard (unpowered) moon landing later that same year with the Luna 2 spacecraft, a feat the U.S. duplicated in 1962 with Ranger 4. A moon landing is the arrival of a spacecraft on the surface of the Moon.
Russia won the first round of the space race when it launched the first man to orbit the Earth, Yuri Gagarin, in 1961. Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin Jr, however, fulfilled John F Kennedy’s promise to reach the Moon by the end of the decade, landing there on July 20, 1969, with Nasa’s Apollo 11. The Soviet Union subsequently cancelled its lunar programmes. A spacecraft will “conduct a demonstrative manned circumlunar test flight with the subsequent landing of cosmonauts on [the Moon’s] surface and their return to Earth” by 2030, according to a leaked strategy document from Russia’s space agency, Roskosmos.
The first human-made object to reach the surface of the Moon was the Soviet Union 's Luna 2 mission, on 13 September 1959. The United States' Apollo 11 was the first manned mission to land on the Moon, on 20 July 1969. A moon landing is the arrival of a spacecraft on the surface of the Moon.
Introduction. On July 20, 1969, American astronauts Neil Armstrong (1930-2012) and Edwin “Buzz” Aldrin (1930-) became the first humans ever to land on the moon. About six-and-a-half hours later, Armstrong became the first person to walk on the moon. 