The normal amounts for D-dimer in the blood should be around 0.5 mg/l of blood or 500 ng/ml of blood. A normal D-dimer test result will reveal a negative result, which indicates that thrombosis has not occurred. People whose D-dimer levels are within the normal range will not likely face life-threatening situations that will result from abnormal D-dimer levels. Having normal D-dimer values are indicative that the body’s healing system by means of blood clotting is doing well.
This is a blood test to look for a substance called D-dimer. This test is used to rule out a blood clot. D-dimer is a protein fragment from the break down of a blood clot. Blood clots generally begin to slowly break down after they are formed, and this process releases D-dimer into the blood. 
– by admin 1. D-dimer normal values refer to the normal range of D-dimer in the blood stream. People whose D-dimer levels are within the normal range will not likely face life-threatening situations that will result from abnormal D-dimer levels. Having normal D-dimer values are indicative that the body’s healing system by means of blood clotting is doing well.
Results. The d-dimer test measures the amount of a substance that is released when a blood clot breaks up. The normal values listed here (called a reference range) are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal
Less than 1.37 nanomoles per liter (nmol/L). 1  A low or normal d-dimer test result means that there is very little of the substance that's released as a blood clot breaks up. 2  Having very little of this substance means that a blood clotting problem isn't likely. The d-dimer test measures the amount of a substance that is released when a blood clot breaks up. The normal values listed here (called a reference range) are just a guide.
D-dimer normal range. The normal range for D-dimer is approximately 0.5 mg/l of blood or 500 mg/ml of blood. Testing of d-dimer range is usually not done when suspicions of individuals who have symptoms of scattered intra-vascular coagulation have been confirmed and have been diagnosed to be suffering from the condition. A blood test is used to determine the concentration of D-dimer in the blood. Thrombosis is a condition that affects the ability of the blood to form clots and a D-dimer test is done to diagnose the presence of
1 A low or normal d-dimer test result means that there is very little of the substance that's released as a blood clot breaks up. 2  Having very little of this substance means that a blood clotting problem isn't likely. 3  A higher-than-normal d-dimer level might mean that there is a blood-clotting problem. The d-dimer test measures the amount of a substance that is released when a blood clot breaks up. The normal values listed here (called a reference range) are just a guide.
The d-dimer test measures the amount of a substance that is released when a blood clot breaks up. The normal values listed here (called a reference range) are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. Test Overview. A d-dimer test is a blood test that measures a substance that is released when a blood clot breaks up. Doctors order the d-dimer test, along with other lab tests and imaging scans, to help check for blood-clotting problems. A d-dimer test can also be used to check how well a treatment is working.
D-Dimer Test. Guide. A d-dimer test is a blood test that measures a substance that is released when a blood clot breaks up. Doctors order the d-dimer test, along with other lab tests and imaging scans, to help check for blood-clotting problems. A d-dimer test can also be used to check how well a treatment is working