The base of the genetic variability is genetic variation of different biological systems in space. Genetic variability is a measure of the tendency of individual genotypes in a population to vary from one another, also. Variability is different from genetic diversity, which is the amount of variation seen in a particular population. The variability of a trait describes how much that trait tends to vary in response to environmental and genetic influences. Variability is an important factor in evolution as it affects an individual's response to environmental stress and thus can lead to differential survival of organisms within a population due to natural selection of the most fit variants.
Genetic variation. The extent of variation in natural populations is such that every individual must be genetically unique. Evolution from the origin, to the modern diversity, of life must have required more variation than existed in the original population.
A source of new variability is necessary for continued evolution to occur. Sources of genetic diversity External. Much of variation in populations, species, is retained due to changes in the environment (adaptive traits are only good in some environments, and not in others). For any evolutionary change to occur there must be some genetic variation in the population; the greater the amount of variability, the greater the possibilities for change. Natural selection decreases variability in populations: in a uniform environment, better adapted types should completely replace unfit types.
1 Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  A single mutation can have a large effect, but in many cases, evolutionary change is based on the accumulation of many mutations. 3  Gene flow is any movement of genes from one population to another and is an important source of genetic variation. Without genetic variation, some of the basic mechanisms of evolutionary change cannot operate. There are three primary sources of genetic variation, which we will learn more about: 1 
Genetic variation is a fact that a biological system – individual and population – is different over space. It is the base of the genetic variability of different biological systems in space. Genetic variation is based on the variation in alleles of genes in a gene pool. It occurs both within and among populations, supported by individual carriers of the variant genes. Genetic variation is brought about by random mutation, which is a permanent change in the chemical structure of a gene. Mutations are likely to be rare and most mutations are neutral or deleterious, but in some instances the new alleles can be favored by natural selection. Polyploidy is an example of chromosomal mutation. Polyploidy is a condition wherein organisms have three or more sets of genetic variation (3n or more).
Mutations. Mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology  all aspects of its life. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life. 
The extent of variation in natural populations is such that every individual must be genetically unique. Evolution from the origin, to the modern diversity, of life must have required more variation than existed in the original population. 
Internal. The ultimate sources of variation, the source of new heritable characteristics in populations and species, are due to mutation and recombination in chromosomes, genes, DNA. The frequency of a gene, or allele, in a population is due to number of forces: forces increasing variability, and forces decreasing variability. For any evolutionary change to occur there must be some genetic variation in the population; the greater the amount of variability, the greater the possibilities for change. Natural selection decreases variability in populations: in a uniform environment, better adapted types should completely replace unfit types.
Genetic variation. Without genetic variation, some of the basic mechanisms of evolutionary change cannot operate. There are three primary sources of genetic variation, which we will learn more about: 1  Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  Gene flow is any movement of genes from one population to another and is an important source of genetic variation. 3  Sex can introduce new gene combinations into a popul
Conclusions Without genetic variation, evolution cannot occur-no genetic variation = no evolution The origin of new genetic variation is predominantly through mutation.New alleles are produced primarily by point mutations. 