Remnants of a Superstructure Before construction of the U.S.S. Arizona Memorial could begin, the area below the boat deck, which included the galley, had to be removed and was unceremoniously dumped on Navy property on Waipio Peninsula, Oahu, Hawaii, where it remained undisturbed and forgotten.
Related internet source National Park Service, USS Arizona Memorial: http:// www.nps.gov/usar Bruce Prideaux Pelagic The pelagic zone comprises all parts of the open sea or ocean (excluding coastal areas and the sea floor). The name is ...
Click the link for more information. (table). See also: National Parks and Monuments (table) National Parks and Monuments National Parks Name Type1 Location Year authorized Size acres (hectares) Description Acadia NP SE Maine 1919 48,419 (19,603) Mountain and coast scenery...... 
The Pennsylvania class (consisting of the Arizona and the Pennsylvania) formed the next step of the US Navy's response to the naval arms race that had begun in 1906 when the Royal Navy completed the HMS Dreadnought. The ship was launched on June 19, 1915.
When the National Park Service took over operation of the USS ARIZONA Memorial in late 1980, it was faced with two fundamental concerns: interpretation and management. The public was insatiably curious about the Pearl Harbor attack, but we lacked enough accurate information to satisfy this curiosity.
The USS ARIZONA as a historic artifact derives much of its significance in relation to the attack on Pearl Harbor and in turn on the outbreak of war. The order of thematic emphasis ensues from the nature of a memorial and the necessity of placing primary emphasis on interpretation of resources at hand.
Now part of the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument on Ford Island, the USS Arizona Memorial is a bone-white rectangular structure spanning the middle portion of the sunken ship, which lies untouched just a few feet below the ...
Building and Shakedown. On March 16, 1914 the New York Navy Yard laid down the keel to begin construction of battleship number 39, which would later be named Arizona (Original speculation was that the ship would be named the North Carolina, the home state of Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels).