Omega-3 fatty acids found in fatty fish like tuna, salmon, halibut, sardines and whitefish decrease total cholesterol and the bad cholesterol, or low density lipoprotein. Most people should aim for two 3.5-ounce servings of fatty fish per week.
Replace salt with spices to reduce your sodium content. Spices contain no cholesterol or fat and are low in sodium, according to the American Heart Association. Instead of high-fat, high-cholesterol butter, use plant-based, unsaturated heart-healthy oils such as soy, cottonseed, olive and/or sunflower.
Americans continue to eat too much cholesterol, saturated fat, sodium and added sugars, reports the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Eating this way increases your risk of diet-related chronic diseases, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and hypertension.
Sodium and cholesterol are nutrients that may be involved in chronic diseases such as high blood pressure and heart disease. A low-sodium, low-calorie, low-cholesterol diet may help you lose weight and reduce your risk for some chronic diseases.
You can make healthier foods choices to help you maintain a low-sodium, low-calorie, low-cholesterol diet. The CDC recommends choosing a variety of fresh foods to prevent boredom and increase the overall nutrition in your diet.
Sodium Recommendations. According to the FDA, a low-sodium food contains 140 mg or less of sodium. Those on low-sodium diets should limit sodium intake to between 500 mg to 1500mg daily. Those watching their sodium intake should also monitor the fat, saturated fat and cholesterol levels they consume.
Healthy snacking is important for all ages, including children. Eating low-fat, low-cholesterol and low-sodium foods throughout the day can be easier than you originally thought. Eating snacks containing raw fruits and vegetables will provide no cholesterol, negligible amounts of fat and low sodium.
Fruits, vegetables, legumes, whole grains, fatty fish, nuts and seeds lower sodium and cholesterol. Maybe your most recent backyard barbecue or that second piece of wedding cake left you thinking about making healthy changes to keep your heart ticking strong.