Peat is burned as a fuel and is also used as a fertilizer. There are two types: sphagnum peat is produced partially decayed sphagnum moss, and sedge peat from partially decayed sedges and heathers. peat. n. 1. a. a compact brownish deposit of partially decomposed vegetable matter saturated with water: found in uplands and bogs in temperate and cold regions and used as a fuel (when dried) and as a fertilizer. b. (as modifier): peat bog.
In addition to hardwood and charcoal, you'll also want: 1  a culinary brush used to swab meat with sauce. 2  a mop — a tool that looks like a miniature mop, that is used to apply sauce. 3  a rib rack (if you plan on smoking ribs) — a metal device that holds your rib racks up on their sides, rather than flat on the grill. And then there's the smoke — you need to keep it smoking for hours. 1  Keeping the heat steady and low takes work. 2  If you are working with a standard kettle charcoal grill, you'll want a chimney-starter full of charcoal. 3  Hardwood charcoal burns with an intense, clean heat, but doesn't last long.
1 Briquettes, on the other hand, burn at a medium heat for a longer time. 2  A combination of the two is optimal. 3  Once the mountain of charcoal is covered in gray ash and no longer distributing flames, push it all to one side of the grill. 4  In barbecuing, you do not want to place your meat directly over a mass of hot coals. And then there's the smoke — you need to keep it smoking for hours. 1  Keeping the heat steady and low takes work. 2  If you are working with a standard kettle charcoal grill, you'll want a chimney-starter full of charcoal. 3  Hardwood charcoal burns with an intense, clean heat, but doesn't last long.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pellet (Noun). Usually a small, compressed, symmetrical and hard chunk of matter. Ex: Wood pellet, ore pellet, etc. pellet (Noun). A lead projectile used as ammunition in rifled air guns. pellet (Noun). Compressed byproduct of digestion regurgitated by owls. 
This takes a lot of your valuable time up when you could have your meat already on the grill cooking. WARNING: Using marinades can cause some real serious problems if they are not handled right. Here is a list of some of the problems you could have: 1  Use extreme care when you tenderizers, vinegar, and citrus juices. Down here in Texas, I use mesquite because of it's sweet smoky taste and availability. Each wood gives its own distinctive flavor to the meat you are cooking. For a comparison of different woods click here. Do yourself a favor and try different woods until you find your favorite.
MAKES: 3 pounds. COMMENT: Tasso is yet another example of the Cajun and Creole desire for unique flavor in a recipe. Tasso is a dried smoked product that is seasoned with cayenne pepper, garlic and salt and heavily smoked. The word tasso is believed to have come from the Spanish work tasajo which is dried, cured beef
1 In barbecuing, you do not want to place your meat directly over a mass of hot coals. 2  Instead, you want to use indirect heat, where you put the meat on the part of the grill that is beside, rather than on top of, the pile of coals. 3  Keep a supply of charcoal handy. And then there's the smoke — you need to keep it smoking for hours. 1  Keeping the heat steady and low takes work. 2  If you are working with a standard kettle charcoal grill, you'll want a chimney-starter full of charcoal. 3  Hardwood charcoal burns with an intense, clean heat, but doesn't last long.
In a general sense, alternative energy as it is currently conceived, is that which is produced or recovered without the undesirable consequences inherent in fossil fuel use, particularly high carbon dioxide emissions (greenhouse gas), an important factor in global warming. Biomass briquettes are being developed in the developing world as an alternative to charcoal. The technique involves the conversion of almost any plant matter into compressed briquettes that typically have about 70% the calorific value of charcoal. There are relatively few examples of large scale briquette production.
Alder: What can I say about this barbecue wood… it is the wood that is greatly preferred for most any fish especially salmon. Get it here. Cherry: Similar to apple… sweet and usually very fruity depending on the age of the wood. Tends to be mild making it a good choice for poultry, fish, and ham. Get it here. Pecan: Gives somewhat of a fruity flavor and burns cooler than most other barbecue woods. It is similar to Hickory and is best used on large cuts like brisket and pork roast but can also be used to compliment chops, fish and poultry. Get it here. Bottom line… you must experiment to find out what works for you and what does not