For 2009, death panel was named as PolitiFact 's Lie of the Year, one of FactCheck 's whoppers, and the most outrageous new term by the American Dialect Society. Palin's claim however, was widely debunked and has been referred to as the  death panel myth , as nothing in any proposed legislation would have led to individuals being judged to see if they were worthy of health care.
The foundations for health-care rationing and even so-called death panels may have already been quietly laid in largely unreported sections of President Obama’s health-care legislation, WND has found. There is also concern for preferential treatment based on race, ethnicity and so-called life preferences. Simply tap the button below, and choose. Add to Home Screen. The mobile shortcut will then be added as an icon on your home screen. Press your menu button and find the option to bookmark this page (a star icon for some browsers).
The America I know and love is not one in which my parents or my baby with Down Syndrome will have to stand in front of Obama s death panel so his bureaucrats can decide, based on a subjective judgment of their level of productivity in society, whether they are worthy of health care. Palin worried that an institution of such Death Panels would place her own child (born with Down's Syndrome) at risk and would especially target the elderly and the infirmed (such as those with disabilities). Palin specifically used the phrase Obama Death Panel which immediately thrust that phrase into the spotlight.
The Death Panel in Obamacare is named the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). What the law says about the powers of IPAB is horrific, worthy of a Third World, authoritarian autocracy, rather than the world’s leading democratic republic. 
This site is a factual, timeline history of the Death Panel concept including documented sources of Death Panel subject matter appearing in the news during the health care reform debate of 2009. Palin worried that an institution of such Death Panels would place her own child (born with Down's Syndrome) at risk and would especially target the elderly and the infirmed (such as those with disabilities). Palin specifically used the phrase Obama Death Panel which immediately thrust that phrase into the spotlight.
The America I know and love is not one in which my parents or my baby with Down Syndrome will have to stand in front of Obama's death panel so his bureaucrats can decide, based on a subjective judgment of their level of productivity in society, whether they are worthy of health care. Palin's claim however, was widely debunked and has been referred to as the  death panel myth , as nothing in any proposed legislation would have led to individuals being judged to see if they were worthy of health care.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: death panel (Noun). A supposed government committee responsible for choosing which patients receive healthcare, ostensibly witholding life-saving treatment from the some, in order to reduce costs. Origin: First used in a 2009 Facebook note by U.S. politician Sarah Palin: ...
To me, death panel. I called it like I saw it, and people didn't like it.. Sarah Palin, whose statement originated the phrase.  Death panel  is a discredited political term that originated during the 2009 debate about federal health care legislation to cover the uninsured in the United States. Palin's claim however, was widely debunked and has been referred to as the  death panel myth , as nothing in any proposed legislation would have led to individuals being judged to see if they were worthy of health care.
A Death Panel (AKA Obama Death Council) is a government agency that would decide who would receive health care and who would not receive health care based on some form of standard implemented by the government. Palin worried that an institution of such Death Panels would place her own child (born with Down's Syndrome) at risk and would especially target the elderly and the infirmed (such as those with disabilities). Palin specifically used the phrase Obama Death Panel which immediately thrust that phrase into the spotlight.