The mean is the average of the numbers. It is easy to calculate: add up all the numbers, then divide by how many numbers there are. In other words it is the sum divided by the count. 
The Mirror of the Sea by Conrad, Joseph View in context. As one will, with one's most serious experiences, hastening to laugh lest one should weep, as the old philosopher said, I had made some fun out of my quest, in the form of a paper for a bookish society to which I belonged, on Woman as a Learned Pursuit. Chiefly British: nip. Idioms: get a move on, get cracking, go like lightning, go like the wind, hotfoot it, make haste, make time, make tracks, run like the wind, shake a leg, step on it. 2. To increase the speed of: accelerate, expedite, hurry, hustle, quicken, speed (up), step up.
That makes a lot of sense. The Second Coming of Jesus Christ isn’t a time chiseled in stone that can never, ever be changed. Peter says we’re to be looking for—and hastening—the coming of the day of God. Through our prayers we can cause Jesus Christ to come more quickly than He would have come. “Thy Kingdom Come”. We have been taught that God’s Kingdom is going to come. But the end of all things is at hand; therefore be serious and watchful in your prayers. 1 Peter 4:7. G. Campbell Morgan, that great expositor of Bible prophecy and the Word of God, wrote, “I never lay my head on the pillow without thinking that perhaps before I awake, the final morning may have dawned.
A new Church website titled “ Hastening the Work of Salvation: A Unified Effort in Conversion, Retention, and Activation ” is now available at HasteningTheWork.lds.org in 26 languages. The site was launched in conjunction with Sunday’s broadcast “The Work of Salvation. ”. The site provides information and helps for priesthood leaders, for ward councils and ward mission leaders, and for members and missionaries. The website HasteningTheWork.lds.org has 20 videos to help us understand how members, leaders, and the missionaries work together in this
Your personal growth in grace, and in the Knowledge of our LORD and Saviour Jesus Christ (2Peter 3:18) is vital to hastening the LORD's Return, because we, as Christians, are individually as much the target and purpose of the Gospel of the Kingdom (Matthew 24:14) , as the Lost. This is the ongoing process of sanctification that must be completed in us before the LORD Jesus Christ will return. And the very God of Peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the Coming of our LORD Jesus Christ (1Thessalonians 5:23) .
Though an explicit statement of the relationship of any other particular activity to hastening the LORD's Return may not be given, performing all the Will of God (Colossians 4:12) will fill up that which is behind (1:24) in completing the portrait of Christ in your life. This is the ongoing process of sanctification that must be completed in us before the LORD Jesus Christ will return. And the very God of Peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the Coming of our LORD Jesus Christ (1Thessalonians 5:23) .
This is the last dispensation, and we can feel the hastening of the work of salvation in every area where a saving ordinance is involved.. ———. When then-Elder Monson delivered those dedicatory remarks on June 20, 1964, there were only 12 operating temples. You have the TBM never acknowledging that there are errors in our history or doctrinal teaching today. Then you have the wolves in sheep clothing trying to pose as a member of the flock only to lead them into forbidden paths (1 Ne. 8:28).
It means literally, looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, referring specifically to that future time when the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat (3:12) . Hastening means to act swiftly, to hurry, to speed up, or to accelerate. This is the ongoing process of sanctification that must be completed in us before the LORD Jesus Christ will return. And the very God of Peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the Coming of our LORD Jesus Christ (1Thessalonians 5:23) .
Hastening the Lord’s Coming. A philosopher once said that in the face of the situation into which mankind has blundered, only a god could save us. It is of little concern to the prophet if the coming of the Lord results in the heavens being torn in pieces and the earth melting like wax and oceans drying up. Let the things of this world pass away, what matters is that the Lord comes soon.
But we as a mission were beyond excited. This meant more baptisms, more work, more young, energy filled people to do with whom we could now do more work. Shortly after this announcement and the tying of the hastening of the work to the world-wide broadcast in June 2013- we experience a drought. Now being home I have returned to my mission area, and have spoken with my mission president. You have the TBM never acknowledging that there are errors in our history or doctrinal teaching today. Then you have the wolves in sheep clothing trying to pose as a member of the flock only to lead them into forbidden paths (1 Ne. 8:28).