In the category of natural food preservatives comes the salt, sugar, alcohol, vinegar etc. These are the traditional preservatives in food that are also used at home while making pickles, jams and juices etc. Also the freezing, boiling, smoking, salting are considered to be the natural ways of preserving food.
Sugar is also one of the common food preservatives, often used to extend the shelf life of desserts and sweet food items, such as canned fruit or candy. Sometimes natural sugar is replaced by high fructose corn syrup in many processed foods, to act as a less expensive sweetener and preservative.
There is a wide variety of food preservatives used by cooks and food manufacturers to extend shelf life and improve storage of both cooked and raw foods. Many natural preservatives, like salt and sugar, are often used in preserving canned fruits, processed meats as well as various types of canned or jarred vegetables.
Direct food additives are those that are added to a food for a specific purpose in that food. For example, xanthan gum -- used in salad dressings, chocolate milk, bakery fillings, puddings and other foods to add texture -- is a direct additive. Most direct additives are identified on the ingredient label of foods.
Food manufacturers use an array of food preservatives to keep food fresh and stable, as well as to extend shelf life and prevent natural decay. One of the most common food preservatives is salt, suitable for many uses such as preserving meat, canned vegetables and fruits, as well as frozen desserts and vegetables.
Food preservatives refer to additives that are put into food to extend its shelf life. They prevent spoilage of the food due to bacteria, molds and fungi and slow down changes in colour and texture that make the product inedible or unappetizing.
If it weren't for food preservatives, we couldn't enjoy many of the great foods the world has to offer. Common antimicrobial preservatives include sodium nitrate, calcium propionate, disodium EDTA, potassium sorbate, sodium benzoate, and sulfites.
Food preservatives can be classified into two general categories: antimicrobials or antioxidants. Antimicrobials inhibit the growth of yeasts, bacteria, and molds. Antioxidants slow air oxidation of lipids and fats, which causes foods to go rancid too quickly.
Food preservatives are substances that are added to food items in order to inhibit, retard or arrest the process of fermentation, acidification, and decomposition of food items. Or, in other words, preservatives in food help keep the food safe, without spoiling, for longer.
Pickles are usually made with vinegar, which helps preserve them. Artificial preservatives called sodium nitrite and sodium nitrate are derivatives of the natural sodium found in regular table salt. Salt and sugar are often used to preserve canned foods.