“Judy’s work is a delight for all ages, and her circus figures are interesting metaphors for life,” said Museum Director and CEO Colleen Sheehy. Onofrio won the McKnight Foundation Distinguished Artist Award in 2005. FARGO, N.D. – Opening September 25 at Plains Art Museum, the exhibition See Acts of Audacious Daring! The Circus World of Judy Onofrio presents a selection of colorful works inspired by the drama and showmanship of the American circus.
Gallery. Reitz Basket, 2014, bone 28”x28”x28”. Judy Onofrio has always been in love with the stuff of the world. In the first three decades of her fifty-year career, she worked with clay, then built, painted, and often set on fire enormous sculptural constructions. For the past twenty years, she has told optimistic stories about strong women, lush gardens, and circus through her elaborately embellished figurative sculptures. In 2008, when Onofrio was confronted by a serious illness, everything changed and she turned to her studio practice to process her experience of mortality, renewal and healing. The resulting series mirrored Onofrio’s own journey through illness to renewed health.
By Patricia McDonnell. Subtle. This is not an adjective often associated with the work of Judy Onofrio. Baroque and boisterous are terms one typically encounters in the Onofrio lexicon—but the audacious boldness and labor-intensive craft of her work can veil its rich metaphors and subtle meaning. Don’t be fooled. Her art, beyond first impressions, carries a depth and an incisive commentary on American life and culture. An individual work is a wonder to behold. A distinctive sculpture or installation grasped more fully within and against the career of artist Judy Onofrio, well, there one finds subtlety.
Judy Onofrio is an internationally known mosaic artist and sculptor, whose iconic work has gone through many different phases over her long career. Her newest work using animal bones is both a departure, and a coming home. Judy has been making art for more than 40 years and has received grants from many distinguished organizations like the McKnight Foundation, Bush Foundation and the MN State Arts Board, including lifetime achievement awards from the McKnight Foundation and MN Craft Council.
We cannot be responsible for the content of external web sites. All images and text on this Judy Onofrio page are copyright 1999-2015 by John Malyon/Specifica, Inc., unless otherwise noted. Note that the listings on this site are a unique compilation of information and are protected by copyright worldwide. 
A “Three Ring Circus” opening reception will be held at the Museum on Sunday, September 25, from 2 to 5 p.m. An artist talk will be held at 1 p.m. Also, a bus tour to Onofrio’s home and studio, “Judyland,” is slated for Monday, October 10. Preregistration is required. Visit plainsart.org to learn more. FARGO, N.D. – Opening September 25 at Plains Art Museum, the exhibition See Acts of Audacious Daring! The Circus World of Judy Onofrio presents a selection of colorful works inspired by the drama and showmanship of the American circus.
Judy Onofrio. Judy Onofrio has shown her work in numerous museums across the country, including solo exhibitions at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts; Laumeier Sculpture Park and Museum, St. Louis, MO; and earlier this year at the Chazen Museum of Art, Madison, WI. 