While a variety of organic materials can be used to supply nutrients for duckweed, the logical source for Aquaponicists is their fish tanks. Of particular importance to aquaponicists, is the plant’s nutritional preference for nitrogen in the form of ammonia. In the right conditions, this tiny plant can double its mass every 24 – 48 hours. Close control of the production parameters for duckweed is relatively easy in the small ponds and tanks favoured by backyard food producers.
Temperature and sunlight are more important growth parameters than nutrient concentrations. Duckweed grows across a wide temperature range – between 6oC and 33oC – but we’ve determined that it grows best in a range of 18oC to 24oC. In the right conditions, this tiny plant can double its mass every 24 – 48 hours. Close control of the production parameters for duckweed is relatively easy in the small ponds and tanks favoured by backyard food producers.
Growth rates of duckweed colonies will be reduced by a variety of stresses: such as nutrient scarcity or imbalance; toxins; extremes of pH and temperature; crowding by overgrowth of the colony and competition from other plants for light and nutrients. Duckweeds have been fed to animals and fish to complement diets, largely to provide a protein of high biological value. Fish production can be stimulated by feeding duckweed to the extent that yields can be increased from a few hundred kilograms per hectare/year to 10 tonnes/ha/year.
Duckweed-a must have for Microponicists. Duckweed is one of the best-kept secrets of Urban Farming. It is a high quality feedstuff that can be produced in useful quantities at little cost and with little effort. Of equal interest (particularly in an Aquaponics context) is its ability to remove nutrients from water. In the right conditions, this tiny plant can double its mass every 24 – 48 hours. Close control of the production parameters for duckweed is relatively easy in the small ponds and tanks favoured by backyard food producers.
Like most aquatic plants, duckweed species have a high water content, but their solid fraction has about the same quantity and quality of protein as soybean meal. Fresh duckweed plants appear to be a complete nutritional package for carp and tilapia ponds. A typical duckweed wastewater treatment plant will yield a daily harvest of up to one ton of duckweed plants (wet weight) per hectare. This can, in turn, produce up to 100 kilograms of fish or 90 kilograms of dried, high-protein duckweed meal each day.
Duckweed reproduction is primarily vegetative. An individual leaf may go through 10 divisions over a period of 10 days to several weeks before the original plant senesces. Duckweeds can double their mass in between 16 hours to 2 days under optimal nutrient availability, sunlight, and water temperature. This is faster than almost any other higher plant. Duckweeds have been fed to animals and fish to complement diets, largely to provide a protein of high biological value. Fish production can be stimulated by feeding duckweed to the extent that yields can be increased from a few hundred kilograms per hectare/year to 10 tonnes/ha/year.
Duckweed can survive across a pH range from five to nine, but grows best in the 6.5 to 7.5 range. When the pH is below 7.0, ammonia can be kept in its ionized state as ammonium ion, which is the preferred form of nitrogen for the plants. A typical duckweed wastewater treatment plant will yield a daily harvest of up to one ton of duckweed plants (wet weight) per hectare. This can, in turn, produce up to 100 kilograms of fish or 90 kilograms of dried, high-protein duckweed meal each day.
While it will live in pH 5 to 9, the optimum pH for growing duckweed is in the range of pH 6.5 to 7.5 – also the preferred range for aquaponics systems. Feeding out duckweed is as simple as dragging a kitchen sieve through the duckweed tank and placing it into your fish tank. In the right conditions, this tiny plant can double its mass every 24 – 48 hours. Close control of the production parameters for duckweed is relatively easy in the small ponds and tanks favoured by backyard food producers.
Problems. Duckweed multiplies rapidly. It may spread from pond to pond on the feathers of waterfowl. When duckweed completely covers a pond it will block light from reaching other plants that live within the pond which in some cases leads to fish kills. Duckweed may be a symptom of other pond problems such as high nutrient levels. Duckweed thrives in nitrogen-rich environments. Duckweed can be removed by raking or seining it from the pond's surface. Common duckweed is a very small light green free-floating, seed bearing plant. Duckweed has 1 to 3 leaves, or fronds, of 1/16 to 1/8 inch in length. A single root (or root-hair) protrudes from each frond.
Fresh duckweed plants contain 92 to 94 percent water and can be stored temporarily in a cool, wet place, such as a small tank or pool. The fresh material will begin to ferment in high temperatures after a few hours, but will keep for several days, if kept cool and damp. A typical duckweed wastewater treatment plant will yield a daily harvest of up to one ton of duckweed plants (wet weight) per hectare. This can, in turn, produce up to 100 kilograms of fish or 90 kilograms of dried, high-protein duckweed meal each day.