Williams founded the colony of Rhode Island based upon principles of complete religious toleration, separation of church and state, and political democracy (values that the U.S. would later be founded upon). It became a refuge for people persecuted for their religious beliefs. 
Roger Williams founded a new colony in Rhode Island. Twenty families joined Williams, originally, in setting up the colony. The colony was set up based on the concept of freedom of religion. 
Rhode Island colony was founded on what is now commonly called Aquidneck Island, the largest of several islands in Narragansett Bay, and included the settlements of Newport and Portsmouth. Providence Plantations was the name of the colony founded by Roger Williams in the area now known as the city of Providence. Rhode Island (/ˌroʊd ˈaɪlɨnd/ or /rɵˈdaɪlɨnd/), officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, is a state in the New England region of the United States.
In 1636.   Rhode Island was founded in 1638 on Aquidneck Island by Anne  Hutchinson with the help of Roger Williams who had founded  Providence Plantation in 1636.   …  Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams, after being thrown out  of Massachusetts in 1635. He obtained a charter for the Providence  Colony of Rhode Island in 1641. Roger Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636 because Puritan leaders in Massachusetts worried that Roger's ideas might hurt the unity of Massachusetts,so the leaders made him l … eave.Then, he took his supporters and founded Providence which later turned into Rhode Island.
Rhode Island State Song. Rhode Island has an interesting history. Roger Williams founded the colony in 1636. He guaranteed religious and political freedom. Religious refugees from the Massachusetts Bay Colony settled in Rhode Island. It was one of the most liberal colonies. 
Roger Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636. He was around 33 when he founded the colony. The history of Rhode Island centers around people who wanted freedom to worship and express different beliefs without political interference. Roger Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636 because Puritan leaders in Massachusetts worried that Roger's ideas might hurt the unity of Massachusetts,so the leaders made him l … eave.Then, he took his supporters and founded Providence which later turned into Rhode Island.
In 1636 Roger Williams, after being banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony for his religious views, settled at the tip of Narragansett Bay, on land granted to him by the Narragansett tribe. He called the site  Providence  and declared it a place of religious freedom. The history of Rhode Island includes the history of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations from pre-colonial times (1636) to modern day.
In 1636.   Rhode Island was founded in 1638 on Aquidneck Island by Anne  Hutchinson with the help of Roger Williams who had founded  Providence Plantation in 1636.   …  Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams, after being thrown out  of Massachusetts in 1635. He obtained a charter for the Providence  Colony of Rhode Island in 1641. Rhode Island was founded because of religious freedom, ideals, and  philosophy.    It was founded as an experiment in religious freedom and tolerance.    Roger … Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636. He was around 33 when  he founded the colony.   The history of Rhode Island centers around people who wanted  freedom to worship and express different beliefs without political  interference