Best Answer: Will vary depending on how your body heals, what age you are, how healthy your diet is, if you excercise regularly, and if you rest the cut muscle long enough. If your under 18 this is the optimum time for it to heal faster, as you age, it will take longer. If you eat healthily, and a well balanced diet, you are also promoting it to heal faster.
Report Abuse. It depends on a number of factors...the size of the cut, how you're taking care of it, and just your body's ability to heal in general. Put some antibiotic cream on it. That will help it heal faster. You can also put Vitamin E on it to help prevent scarring. 
Closing your wound surgically (with stitches, clips or staples) encourages your wound to heal faster. The first phase of wound healing can take around two to three weeks but some people experience delayed wound healing. This can depend on the type of wound you have and how your body responds to healing. Taking care of your wound. Dissolvable stitches usually disappear in about one to three weeks, but it can take longer, depending on the type you have. Non-dissolvable stitches, clips and staples are usually removed after three to 14 days, depending on where they are and the type of operation you had.
ANSWERS FROM DOCTORS. 2 years ago by General Vascular Surgery Group It may take a month or two for your wound to heal and for the scar to diminish in appearance. You should ask your MD to re-evaluate you. It may take a month or two for your wound to heal and for the scar to diminish in appearance. Some people will heal within a few weeks, while others may take a few months to fully heal. 2 years ago by Intermountain Vein Center (View Profile). Everyone has different healing times following endovenous laser ablation
The time it takes a cut to heal depends on the severity or it and  how deep it is. A simple paper cut will usually heal in a few days.  A deeper gash that requires stitches … can take up to a month to  fully heal. 1 person found this useful. Because a bone in your body is very rough and hard, the bone's healing time depends on the size of the damage, if the bone is completely snapped then it will take longer then … a cut because it is bigger damage whereas a cut can seal itself.
Get help from a doctor now ›. It depends: If the skin edges are approximated (e.g. Sutures) it takes about a week. If left open to heal, can take longer depending on how wide the cut is. Once initial wound has covered in skin, takes about 6 months for the scars to mature. ...Read more. Dr. Keegan Duchicela Board Certified 8 years in practice 15M people helped. 
When the wound itself has healed and you are able to move around, still take it easy, you may think its healed, but actually its still very fragile, and you will be able to tear it very easily. It could take weeks, it could take months, if its on a part of your body that moves alot, I would say months. And if its a really deep wound, I would say atleast 3 months of rest before your almost back to normal. 6 and your there. If your under 18 this is the optimum time for it to heal faster, as you age, it will take longer. If you eat healthily, and a well balanced diet, you are also promoting it to heal faster.
Problems with the blood circulation system can affect wound healing because the tissues do not get the required supply of oxygen and nutrients. Wound healing is complex, and there can be many causes why it does not happen properly. In spite of all you can do, a cut-even minor-can take a long time to heal. If this is the case, there may be some more severe underlying problem that can lead to dangerous complications. Always consult your doctor for non-healing cuts. Eating the right diet can have an effect on how long a cut takes to heal. It is recommended to eat vitamin rich, fresh, raw vegetables and fruits. They provide enzymes to boost your immune system. Dark green and orange vegetables contain beta-carotenes, which are important to speed up healing.
Report Abuse. I used to work on a plastic surgery ward and one of the consultants told me a scar will take 18 months until it is at its full healed stage. If the scar is on an area where it moves such as your knee be careful because you can stretch the scar and it will make it thicker. 
A surgical wound is a cut made to your skin during an operation. Wound healing is a complicated process but can be divided into three main phases. 1  Inflammation – this happens straight away and lasts for up to six days, during which time the blood flow to your wound increases. Taking care of your wound. Dissolvable stitches usually disappear in about one to three weeks, but it can take longer, depending on the type you have. Non-dissolvable stitches, clips and staples are usually removed after three to 14 days, depending on where they are and the type of operation you had.