In Florida, it is generally illegal to openly carry a weapon. However, a person may openly carry, for legal self defense purposes, a self defense chemical spray, non-lethal stun gun, dart-firing stun gun or other non-lethal electric weapon designed for defensive purposes only. Florida is unusual in that it allows many concealed weapons, not just handguns, to be legally carried with a license. Florida defines “concealed weapons” as handguns, electronic weapons or devices, tear gas guns, knives, and billie clubs.
(2) A person may openly carry, for purposes of lawful self-defense: (a) A self-defense chemical spray. (b) A nonlethal stun gun or dart-firing stun gun or other nonlethal electric weapon or device that is designed solely for defensive purposes. Download our Florida Gun Rights information pamphlet. 790.053 Open carrying of weapons.—. (1) Except as otherwise provided by law and in subsection (2), it is unlawful for any person to openly carry on or about his or her person any firearm or electric weapon or device.
790.06 License to carry concealed weapon or firearm.— (1) The Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services is authorized to issue licenses to carry concealed weapons or concealed firearms to persons qualified as provided in this section. Each such license must bear a color photograph of the licensee. For the purposes of this section, concealed weapons or concealed firearms are defined as a handgun, electronic weapon or device, tear gas gun, knife, or billie, but the term does not include a machine gun as defined in s. 790.001(9)
Location of Florida in the United States. Gun laws in Florida regulate the sale, possession, and use of firearms and ammunition in the state of Florida in the United States. Florida is a  shall issue  state, and issues concealed carry licenses to both residents and non-residents. 1 Carry of a Handgun on one's person inside a vehicle without a license is not permitted (except in the case of open carry in accordance with the law outlined above). 2  Once a handgun is securely encased, it can be stored anywhere inside the vehicle and is not limited to just the glove compartment/center console.
(1) While Florida’s law allows licensees to carry stun guns, knives, and billy clubs in a concealed fashion, the laws in these states allow for concealed carry of handguns or pistols ONLY, NOT WEAPONS IN GENERAL. Florida license holders are prohibited from carrying other types of weapons while in these states. Many states allow concealed carry of handguns or pistols only. In addition, most states’ gun laws prohibit carrying concealed weapons into such places as schools, bars, courthouses, and so on. Generally speaking, the other states’ lists are all quite similar to Florida’s.
No. Florida, like Michigan and New Hampshire, has a residency requirement in its reciprocity law. Florida does not recognize non-resident concealed carry permits from other states. QUESTION 6. (4) These states will honor the Florida concealed weapon license ONLY IF the licensee is a resident of the state of Florida. (5) These states issue concealed carry licenses to qualified individuals who are non-residents.
(b) Has in his or her immediate possession a valid license to carry a concealed weapon or concealed firearm issued to the nonresident in his or her state of residence. (c) Is a resident of the United States. The licensee must carry the license, together with valid identification, at all times in which the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed weapon or firearm and must display both the license and proper identification upon demand by a law enforcement officer.
In order to legally carry a firearm with you, you must have a license issued pursuant to Fl Stat. s. 790.06. The Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services is the agency responsible for issuing the concealed carry license. A concealed firearm is any firearm…which is carried on or about a person in such a manner as to conceal the firearm from the ordinary sight of another person. Fl Stat s. 790.001(2). The Florida legislature has made it a third degree felony to carry a concealed firearm if unlicensed.
No. Due to Federal Laws, having a Florida Concealed Weapon License or any other state’s concealed weapon license or permit does not exempt you from the background check when purchasing a gun in the state of Florida. 