Ivor Gurney. Ivor Gurney, the son of a tailor, was born in Gloucester on 28th August, 1890. Gurney was educated at King's School, Gloucester as a chorister and he won an open scholarship to the Royal College of Music in 1911. On 28th September 1922, Gurney was certified insane and was transferred to the City of London Mental Hospital at Dartford. He continued to write poetry and his work was published in the London Mercury. Ivor Gurney died of bilateral pulmonary tuberculosis at the City of London Mental Hospital on 26th December, 1937.
Calendar Mysteries #10: October Ogre. By: Ron Roy. illustrated by: John Steven Gurney. In the tenth book of the Calendar Mysteries, an early chapter-book mystery series featuring the younger siblings of the A to Z Mysteries detectives, there's a haunted house in Green Lawn! It's Halloween,... “I’m totally convinced that I am a writer today because I loved books as a kid.”—Ron Roy Ron Roy is the author of the popular A to Z Mysteries series, as well as the Capital Mysteries series, and several picture books. He lives in Connecticut.
He lived in New York City until 1997, when he moved to Brattleboro, Vermont where he currently lives with his wife and his two children. Dinosaur Train was inspired by his son Jesse, who as a toddler was completely fixated on trains and dinosaurs (Jesse is now a college student, and has moved on to other fixations). John's first graphic novel, Fuzzy Baseball is due to be released in May of 2016. John likes to use his friends and family to pose for as the characters in his books. So far more than forty adults and children from Brattleboro have appeared in The A to Z Mysteries and The Bailey School Kids..
Stevens was born June 26, 1749, in New York City, New York, the son of John Stevens, a prominent state politician who served as a delegate to the Continental Congress, and Elizabeth Alexander, daughter of New York lawyer and statesman James Alexander. Col. John Stevens, III (June 26, 1749 - March 6, 1838) was an American lawyer, engineer, and inventor who constructed the first U.S. steam locomotive, first steam-powered ferry, and first U.S. commercial ferry service from his estate in Hoboken.
I've illustrated all of the titles in the A to Z Mysteries and the Calendar Mysteries for Random House, as well as books for Simon and Schuster, Ace Berkley, and Orchard Books. Dinosaur Train, my first book as an author and illustrator was published by Harper Collins in Fall of 2002. I grew up in Bucks County Pennsylvania. I always enjoyed picture books by Maurice Sendak, watching Bugs Bunny cartoons and reading Mad magazine. And I always enjoyed drawing cartoons of everyone I knew.
written by Ron Roy with illustrations by John Steven Gurney-Children's, Fiction. Calendar Mysteries #10: October Ogre. In the tenth book of the Calendar Mysteries, there's a haunted house in Green Lawn! It's Halloween, and the Shangri-la Hotel has transformed into a haunted house, complete with an ogre out front. written by Ron Roy with illustrations by John Steven Gurney-Children's, Fiction, Mystery. The Lucky Lottery. L is for Lucky...Lucky O’Leary has never been lucky --- until his grandfather sends him a winning lottery ticket! But before Lucky can collect the cash, someone steals the ticket.
While attending Pratt I won a national poster contest for Molson's Golden Ale. The illustration appeared in Rolling Stone magazine where it was seen by the art directors at Ariel books. That led to my first picture book assignment, The Temptation of Wilfred Malachy, written by William F. Buckley, published in 1985. I grew up in Bucks County Pennsylvania. I always enjoyed picture books by Maurice Sendak, watching Bugs Bunny cartoons and reading Mad magazine. And I always enjoyed drawing cartoons of everyone I knew.
BIOGRAPHY. John Steven Gurney grew up in Bucks County Pennsylvania. His first and greatest inspirations were Dr. Seuss and Maurice Sendak. As he approached fifth grade his influences switched to Bugs Bunny cartoons and Mad Magazine. By the time he studied illustration at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, NY his idols were N.C. John's first graphic novel, Fuzzy Baseball is due to be released in May of 2016. John likes to use his friends and family to pose for as the characters in his books. So far more than forty adults and children from Brattleboro have appeared in The A to Z Mysteries and The Bailey School Kids..
written by Ron Roy with illustrations by John Steven Gurney-Children's, Fiction, Mystery. The Missing Mummy. M is for Mummy...Dink, Josh and Ruth Rose want their mummy! It’s Mummy Monday at the museum, and the kids get to see a child mummy in an actual tomb. written by Ron Roy with illustrations by John Steven Gurney-Children's, Fiction, Mystery. The Lucky Lottery. L is for Lucky...Lucky O’Leary has never been lucky --- until his grandfather sends him a winning lottery ticket! But before Lucky can collect the cash, someone steals the ticket.
By: Ron Roy, illustrated by John Steven Gurney. Z was just the beginning! With A to Z Mysteries® Super Editions, chapter book readers keep on collecting clues and solving mysteries with Dink, Josh, and Ruth Rose. Now with over 8 million copies in print, this classic kid-favorite... “I’m totally convinced that I am a writer today because I loved books as a kid.”—Ron Roy Ron Roy is the author of the popular A to Z Mysteries series, as well as the Capital Mysteries series, and several picture books. He lives in Connecticut.