Thatching is the craft of building a roof with dry vegetation such as straw, water reed, sedge (Cladium mariscus), rushes, or heather, layering the vegetation so as to shed water away from the inner roof. It is a very old roofing method and has been used in both tropical and temperate climates. Thatching methods have traditionally been passed down from generation to generation, and numerous descriptions of the materials and methods used in Europe over the past three centuries survive in archives and early publications.
Stumbleupon. Unless you're a roofer by trade, you may not be familiar with what Thatch is. That's O.K., that's why we're here to help! The reason why you may not be familiar with what thatch is is because it accumulates on the surface of your soil just below the grass line and usually out of sight. Thatch is a layer of grass stems, roots, clippings, and debris that settle on the ground and either slowly decompose and/or accumulate over time. 
How to Dethatch a Lawn. Two Methods: Mechanical dethatching Manual dethatching. Managing thatch is an important component of maintaining a healthy lawn. Thatch, which is a woven layer of decay resistant stems, roots, rhizomes, and stolons, may prevent a lawn from receiving the proper nutrients and air. 1 If you answered yes, your lawn may have a thatch problem. 2  Use a spade or knife to remove a small section of lawn in a few places around the yard. 3  Measure the thatch layer. 4  If it is greater than 0.5 inches (1 cm), your lawn needs to be dethatched.
Thatch can be an ongoing problem that keeps your lawn from living up to its potential. Thatch is an almost impenetrable mat of tangled, intertwined grass and other material on the ground surface. Removing thatch helps you get the best from your lawn. Prevent Lawn Thatch. A layer of thatch on your lawn means that air, water and nutrients can't break though. Fertilizer is wasted, since it only feeds the top layer and not the roots. Water runs off instead of getting to the root systems and weeds thrive
Managing Thatch in Lawns. Thatch is a loose, intermingled organic layer of dead and living shoots, stems, and roots that develops between the zone of green vegetation and the soil surface. Thatch build up begins when turf produces organic debris faster than it can be broken down. 
Lawn thatch is the layer of dead and alive stems between the green grass leaves up top and the soil down below. Thatch is not made up of grass clippings, contrary to popular belief. Too much thatch restricts air and water movement within the soil. You always want to de-thatch your lawn at a time when the species of grass in your lawn is actively growing. That is when the lawn can best recover from the treatment. You need to use a core aerator for best results. A core aerator will remove small cores from the soil, and will not simply poke holes in the lawn.
A lawn with a heavy thatch is more susceptible to bug and disease, it may take in more water, and fertilizer is less effective. Lawns should be de-thatched to promote healthy grass growth whenever the layer of thatch is more than 1 inch (2.54 cm) thick. You can do this either mechanically or manually. 1 If you answered yes, your lawn may have a thatch problem. 2  Use a spade or knife to remove a small section of lawn in a few places around the yard. 3  Measure the thatch layer. 4  If it is greater than 0.5 inches (1 cm), your lawn needs to be dethatched.
Scarification or de-thatching of lawns or turf is a mechanical process whereby the surface and subsurface of the lawn, green or sports pitch is rigorously abraded by penetrating metal blades, tines or prongs. Thatch is a build-up of organic matter which can include dead grass, leaves, stems, stolons, rhizomes and overcrowded grass roots and lateral weed growth. Thatch can stifle the growth and health of grass or turf.