Silicates. The silicate mineral class is considered to be the most important of all the mineral classes. About 25% of the known minerals and nearly 40% of the common ones are silicates.
1 of 2. 1. 2. The silicate minerals make up the great majority of rocks. Silicate is a chemical term for the group of a single atom of silicon surrounded by four atoms of oxygen, or SiO 4, in the shape of a tetrahedron. 
Full Definition of SILICATE. : a salt or ester derived from a silicic acid; especially: any of numerous insoluble often complex metal salts that contain silicon and oxygen in the anion, constitute the largest class of minerals, and are used in building materials (as cement, bricks, and glass). See silicate defined for English-language learners. : a salt or ester derived from a silicic acid; especially: any of numerous insoluble often complex metal salts that contain silicon and oxygen in the anion and constitute the largest class of minerals.
A silicate is a compound containing an anionic silicon compound. The great majority of silicates are oxides, but hexafluorosilicate ([SiF 6 ] 2−) and other anions are also included.  Orthosilicate  is the anion SiO 4 4− or its compounds. Related to orthosilicate are families of anions (and their compounds) with the formula [SiO 2+n ] 2n− . Silica, or silicon dioxide, SiO 2, is sometimes considered a silicate, although it is the special case with no negative charge and no need for counter-ions. Silica is found in nature as the mineral quartz, and its polymorphs.
Medical Definition of SILICATE. : a salt or ester derived from a silicic acid; especially: any of numerous insoluble often complex metal salts that contain silicon and oxygen in the anion and constitute the largest class of minerals.
1. any of the largest group of minerals, as quartz, olivine, pyroxene, amphibole, mica, clay, and feldspar, consisting of silicon and oxygen with one or more metals: the basic building block is the silica tetrahedron, SiO 4. 2. any salt derived from the silicic acids or from silica. 
Silicates. The most abundant elements in the Earth's crust are oxygen (46.6%) and silicon (27.7%). Minerals which combine these two elements are called silicates, and combined they are the most abundant minerals on the Earth. The silicates can be organized in terms of their chemical compositions and their crystal structures (indicated by the existance of cleavage planes
The silicates are the largest, the most interesting and the most complicated class of minerals than any other minerals. Approximately 30% of all minerals are silicates and some geologists estimate that 90% of the Earth's crust is made up of silicates, SiO. Silicates is based on the basic chemical unit SiO. In the extreme case, the tetrahedra are arranged in a regular, orderly fashion forming a three-dimensional network.
Building Blocks of The Earth’s Crust. Silicates are the most widespread of the minerals. They are made up of oxygen and silicon the number one and number two most abundant elements in the earth's crust. By themselves they make up over 90% of the weight of the earth’s crust. Most rocks are composed mainly of this class of minerals. Quartz Quartz is one of the most common of all minerals that make up the continental crust. It is found in igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary rocks. Amazonite Amazonite is a beautiful green variety of microcline feldspar. Its chemical formula is KAlSi3O8, potassium aluminum silicate.
The silicate minerals are rock-forming minerals, constituting approximately 90 percent of the crust of the Earth. They are classified based on the structure of their silicate group which contain different ratios of silicon and oxygen. They make up the largest and most important class of rock-forming minerals.