The dog in Petticoat Junction didn't have a name. He was simply referred to as dog. The dog's name in real life was Higgins, who would later portray Benji in the movie of … the same name. The dog's name on the show was dog. The dog was on one occasion called Higgins by one of the Bradley girls (accidentally). Higgins was the dog's REAL name. The dog (Higg … ins) later played Benji in the first Benji movie. Technically, the dog HAD no name.
Confidence votes 27. The dog in Petticoat Junction didn't have a name. He was simply referred to as dog. The dog's name in real life was Higgins, who would later portray Benji in the movie of the same name. The dog's name on the show was dog. The dog was on one occasion called Higgins by one of the Bradley girls (accidentally). Higgins was the dog's REAL name. The dog (Higg … ins) later played Benji in the first Benji movie. Technically, the dog HAD no name.
Higgins (December 12, 1957 – November 11, 1975) was one of the best-known dog actors of the 1960s and 1970s. Most people remember him as  Benji  or as Dog from Petticoat Junction, two of the most popular roles he played during a 14-year career in show business. Benjean can be differentiated from Higgins by the fact that she was a female with no visible genitalia, and she had a large patch of white hairs on her muzzle around her nose, whereas Higgins was mostly black around his nose.
Edgar Buchanan, who portrayed Uncle Joe Carson on Petticoat Junction also starred in the film. In the second season, episode 31 entitled The Chicken Killer, Kate Bradley (Bea Benederet) states he doesn't have one to a judge's query of what is the dog's name?'. The dog's name on the show was dog. The dog was on one occasion called Higgins by one of the Bradley girls (accidentally). Higgins was the dog's REAL name. The dog (Higg … ins) later played Benji in the first Benji movie. Technically, the dog HAD no name.
Beginning with the episode 'Betty Jo's Dog' in which he follows Betty Jo home and is allowed to stay against Kate's better judgment, the dog was a regular cast member, and remained so throughout the rest of the series. Though he was retired shortly after the end of Petticoat Junction, Higgins later came out of retirement to launch a career in movies as Benji, starring in the first two films of the series. His offspring have carried on the legacy in subsequent films.
Higgins Higgins was the name of the dog that portrayed the dog. On the show ITSELF, the dog HAD no name, although one of the actresses who played one of the Bradley daughters … called him Higgins on one occasion by accident. Higgins would later become MORE famous playing the title role in the film Benji. The dog's name on the show was dog. The dog was on one occasion called Higgins by one of the Bradley girls (accidentally). Higgins was the dog's REAL name. The dog (Higg … ins) later played Benji in the first Benji movie. Technically, the dog HAD no name.
Higgins's career was facilitated by Frank Inn, who also trained Arnold Ziffel (the pig) and all the other animals used on the Beverly Hillbillies, Petticoat Junction, and Green Acres sitcoms. Benjean can be differentiated from Higgins by the fact that she was a female with no visible genitalia, and she had a large patch of white hairs on her muzzle around her nose, whereas Higgins was mostly black around his nose.
The dog on Petticoat Junction was never called by his name. They simply called him Dog. In real-life, the dog's name was Higgins. You might remember him better from his final acting role as the star of the 1974 movie, Benji. To the junction, Petticoat Junction. There's a little hotel called the Shady Rest at the junction. Petticoat Junction. It is run by Kate, come and be her guest at the junction. Petticoat Junction. And that's Uncle Joe, he's a movin' kind of slow at
Higgins had a close rapport with the actor Edgar Buchanan, who played Uncle Joe Carson on Petticoat Junction. In the official cast pictures taken each year during the run of Petticoat Junction, Buchanan is shown holding or petting Higgins. Benjean can be differentiated from Higgins by the fact that she was a female with no visible genitalia, and she had a large patch of white hairs on her muzzle around her nose, whereas Higgins was mostly black around his nose.
What is the dogs name on petticoat junction. Dog was the name of the dog on the television sitcom Petticoat Junction (1963-1970). In dog news, weary travelers at San Francisco International Airport can now while away time at the terminal by cavorting with black Labs, Saint Bernards, terriers and other specially trained therapy dogs. Check out more here