-Fragile particle board items. Even though we accept many more items than other donation places, we cannot take items that really belong in the garbage. We need items in good condition and ready to use. CALL NOW to schedule a FREE pick up: 1-888-208-1651 Houston Furniture Donation does NOT give tax receipts.
Welcome to HOUSTON FURNITURE DONATION! The place where we come to you to pick up your furniture donation (and we also pick up other items) for FREE. We pick up items all over Houston and the surrounding areas. We have picked up items from storage units and barns to homes and large office buildings, abandoned homes and abandoned properties. We even pick up many items that the other donation places don't want to bother with! Even though we are not a non-profit and cannot give you a tax receipt, we donate a large amount of the furniture and other items to those in need. We are thankful to those who donate!
Who's life will your donation transform. Call 1-800-SA-TRUCK to schedule a pick up today. When you give to The Salvation Army Family Stores, your donations of clothes, furniture, household items, electronics or autos help fund our adult alcohol and drug rehabilitation centers.
For a free furniture donation pick up, please enter your zip code on the donation pick up scheduling webpage. Donate furniture to charity and get a free furniture donation pick up! Donating furniture to charity. Donating furniture to charity can make a huge difference to the less fortunate in your community. A used couch can help a budget-strapped family make a more comfortable home.
Donate car in Houston helps families in need of furniture, clothing and food in Houston. Thank You for your vehicle donation in Houston.Helping Hands Charity is in need of furniture donation in Houston, clothing donation in Houston, Boat donation in Houston and vehicledonation in Houston. We also provide a donation pick-up service
When donating to Helping Hands Charity you are helping local Houston area families with much needed assistance. We provide local families with furniture, clothing, and food. Your donations help those families suffering from a hardship or crises. To fill out a donation request, click on Donation Pick-up. Thank You for your vehicle donation in Houston.Helping Hands Charity is in need of furniture donation in Houston, clothing donation in Houston, Boat donation in Houston and vehicle
Your donated desk and chair can give a struggling student the materials she needs to succeed. Furniture donations are needed year-round. DonationTown.org will help you locate a charity near you and schedule a fast, FREE furniture donation pick up of your furniture donations. Donating furniture to charity. Donating furniture to charity can make a huge difference to the less fortunate in your community. A used couch can help a budget-strapped family make a more comfortable home.
Thanks to all the donations of clothing, food, furniture,car, and boat. We will continue to provide donation pick-up service to the greater Houston area. The donation pick-up service is Free.We accept donation pick-up for furniture, clothing, cars, boat, and lots more. Thank You for your vehicle donation in Houston.Helping Hands Charity is in need of furniture donation in Houston, clothing donation in Houston, Boat donation in Houston and vehicle
Charities of Houston is a 501(c)3 registered Charity in the Houston Area helping to make a difference in the lives of LOCAL families in need. All proceeds from donations to Charities of Houston directly benefit families in need here in our area. And you can be assured of your donation since we are a registered 501(c)3 nonprofit organization. See, we are an actual charity, not a for-profit middle-man like many other car donation and regular donation centers. 
Our junk removal and trash pick up service includes all the sorting, loading, clean-up, recycling, salvaging and disposal of the items you don’t want. Since we’re a full-service junk hauling company, all you have to do is point at what you want gone, and we make it disappear – no need to gather it up in to one place. We're opening up a moving company in Houston. We're getting in to the moving business with our new company, You Move Me. You Move Me Houston is a full-service moving company that can do your packing for you, as well as get you (and your belongings) to your new home.