Coordinating conjunctions go in between items joined, not at the beginning or end. Punctuation with coordinating conjunctions: When a coordinating conjunction joins two words, phrases, or subordinate clauses, no comma should be placed before the conjunction. A coordinating conjunction joining three or more words, phrases, or subordinate clauses creates a series and requires commas between the elements. 
Use a comma to separate the elements in a series (three or more things), including the last two. He hit the ball, dropped the bat, and ran to first base.. You may have learned that the comma before the and is unnecessary, which is fine if you're in control of things. Use a comma to separate coordinate adjectives. You could think of this as That tall, distinguished, good looking fellow rule (as opposed to the little old lady). If you can put an and or a but between the adjectives, a comma will probably belong there.
However, you may not be satisfied with the results. 3. Use a pair of commas in the middle of a sentence to set off clauses, phrases, and words that are not essential to the meaning of the sentence. Use one comma before to indicate the beginning of the pause and one at the end to indicate the end of the pause. 
When to use a comma before a conjunction. If you're merging two sentences into one with a conjunction, then use a comma before the conjunction (e.g., I like fish, and I like chips. ). With lists, if there are just two list items, don't use a comma before the conjunction. With three or more, use a comma if you're an American. Brits should not use a comma
2. Before certain conjunctions. A comma should be used before these conjunctions: and, but, for, nor, yet, or, so to separate two independent clauses. They are called co-ordinating conjunctions. She was a fantastic cook, but she would never be as good as her mother-in-law. 
Whether it is correct to use a comma before a coordinating conjunction (and, but, or, nor, for, yet, so) depends on the situation. There are three primary uses of conjunctions: 
Search. When a word like and, or, and but (called conjunctions) joins two standalone sentences, you should put a comma before it. (The real name for a standalone sentence within a longer sentence is independent clause .). Words like and, or, and but are known as conjunctions. USE A SEMICOLON. When indepedent clauses containing commas are merged together using a conjunction, it is possible to use a semicolon instead of a comma before the conjunction. However, this is quite an outdated practice in modern writing.
One of the most frequent errors in comma usage is the placement of a comma after a coordinating conjunction. We cannot say that the comma will always come before the conjunction and never after, but it would be a rare event, indeed, that we need to follow a coordinating conjunction with a comma. When speaking, we do sometimes pause after the little conjunction, but there is seldom a good reason to put a comma there. Use a comma to separate coordinate adjectives. You could think of this as That tall, distinguished, good looking fellow rule (as opposed to the little old lady). If you can put an and or a but between the adjectives, a comma will probably belong there.
Commas before conjunctions (e.g., and, or, but). When a word like and, or, and but (called conjunctions) joins two standalone sentences, you should put a comma before it. (The real name for a standalone sentence within a longer sentence is independent clause .). Words like and, or, and but are known as conjunctions. USE A SEMICOLON. When indepedent clauses containing commas are merged together using a conjunction, it is possible to use a semicolon instead of a comma before the conjunction. However, this is quite an outdated practice in modern writing.
If there are four clauses in the sentence, we need just three conjunctions to connect them. Another common problem is the confusion about the placement of comma. Sometimes we use a comma before a conjunction. Sometimes we do not use a comma. When subordinate clauses begin a sentence, we usually separate them from the rest of the sentence with a comma. When the subordinate clause goes after the main clause, the comma can be left out. 