LDL (bad) cholesterol A low LDL cholesterol level is considered good for your heart health. However, your LDL number should no longer be the main factor in guiding treatment to prevent heart attack and stroke, according to new guidelines from the American Heart Association.
Find out what your cholesterol levels are so you can lower them if you need to. Total cholesterol: 1  Less than 200 mg/dL: Desirable level that puts you at lower risk for heart disease. 2  200 to 239 mg/dL: Considered borderline high. 3  240 mg/dL and above: High blood cholesterol. 4  A person with this level has more than twice the risk of
1 If you have heart disease, an LDL level (the bad cholesterol) above 100 mg/dL is considered high, and you and your health care professional should identify steps to bring your LDL-cholesterol level into a desirable range (less than 70 mg/dL), including exercise, diet changes and medication.
Your LDL cholesterol should be 100 mg/DL or less. Your HDL is considered healthy at 60 mg/dL and above. Normal triglyceride levels are less than 150 mg/dL.
A desirable total cholesterol level for adults without heart disease is less than 200 mg/dL. An HDL cholesterol level of 60 mg/dL and above is considered protective against heart disease, while a level less than 50 mg/dL for women or 40 mg/dL for men is considered a major risk factor for heart disease.
A deciliter is one-tenth of a liter). NCEP defines a desirable total cholesterol level as less than 200 mg/dL, and levels for most women stay in the healthy or desirable range until middle-age. But between the ages of 45 and 55, women's average total cholesterol rises to almost 220 mg/dL. Between the ages of 55 and 64, those levels average 240 mg/dL.
The National Cholesterol Education Program defines a desirable total cholesterol level as less than 200 mg/dL, and levels for most women stay in the healthy or desirable range until middle-age. But between the ages of 45 and 55, women's average total cholesterol rises to almost 220 mg/dL.