As long as there are no other events in the area, lots controlled by Standard Parking Corp. will cost. $3, $4 or $5 for Clippers home games, depending on lot location. Arena District parking facilities are adequately staffed to assist in directing traffic in and out of. lots and garages. All lots and garages will be pre-pay to avoid delays in exiting. Blue H dots on the map indicate locations where handicap spaces can be found.
1 Parking in the Marconi Garage located behind the Arena Grand Movie Theatre at 245 Marconi Boulevard or the Neil Avenue Garage located at 300 Neil Avenue. 2  See parking map for reference. 3  Dine at your favorite Arena District restaurant, spending a minimum of $15 and not exceeding a 2 hour limit. 1 For a complete list of Arena District venues, please click here. 2  Present your receipt (valued at $15 or more) and parking ticket to the parking attendant upon exiting the garage and you will only pay $3. 3  Remember, if your stay exceeds 2 hours, you will be required to pay the scheduled hourly rate.
The stadium is at the corner of Neil Avenue and Nationwide Boulevard in the Arena District of Columbus and replaced the Clippers' former home, Cooper Stadium. In February 2006, the naming rights for the park were purchased by Huntington Bancshares Inc. for $12 million over 23 years. On April 18, 2009, the park opened to the public, with the Columbus Clippers playing the Toledo Mud Hens in the stadium's first game. It primarily serves as the home of the Columbus Clippers of the International League, the Triple-A minor league affiliate of the Cleveland Indians since 2009. Groundbreaking for the ballpark took place on August 2, 2007, with construction being completed in April 2009.
Parking at Huntington Park. With it's central location in the Arena District, Huntington Park has over 14,000 parking spaces within a 10 minute walk. The map below shows a layout of the different lots in relation to the Ballpark. As long as there are no other events in the area, lots controlled by Standard Parking Corp. will cost $3, $4, or $5 for Clippers home games, depending on lot location. Arena District parking facilities are adequately staffed to assist in directing traffic in and out of lots and garages.
Parking rates vary depending on the event. Rates generally range between $15 - $25. For more specific event information, please call (213) 742-7275 (213-742-PARK). Parking Lot W and Lot 5 will open at 8 a.m. for Guests visiting the Box Office and Team LA store. Parking Lots 1 and C will open two and a half hours prior to the start of an event. All other lots will open 90 minutes prior to the start of an event and will remain staffed 60 minutes after an event.
The Green, Red and Blue Long Term Shuttle Lots offer affordable convenience for Port Columbus travelers. With shuttles providing 24-hour service to and from the airport, you are never more than a few minutes away from a relaxing ride to the terminal. Green Long Term Shuttle Lot $4 per day (24-hour period) and no hidden fees! GPS address: 3256 E. 17th Ave. Columbus, OH 43219
With it's central location in the Arena District, Huntington Park has over 14,000 parking spaces. within a 10 minute walk. The map below shows a layout of the different lots in relation to the Ballpark. Arena District parking facilities are adequately staffed to assist in directing traffic in and out of. lots and garages. All lots and garages will be pre-pay to avoid delays in exiting. Blue H dots on the map indicate locations where handicap spaces can be found.
Park & Dine Program. Dine at your favorite Arena District Restaurant and pay only $3 by following these simple steps: 1  Parking in the Marconi Garage located behind the Arena Grand Movie Theatre at 245 Marconi Boulevard or the Neil Avenue Garage located at 300 Neil Avenue. 2  See parking map for reference. 1 For a complete list of Arena District venues, please click here. 2  Present your receipt (valued at $15 or more) and parking ticket to the parking attendant upon exiting the garage and you will only pay $3. 3  Remember, if your stay exceeds 2 hours, you will be required to pay the scheduled hourly rate.
Huntington Park is baseball stadium located in Columbus, Ohio, United States. It primarily serves as the home of the Columbus Clippers of the International League, the Triple-A minor league affiliate of the Cleveland Indians since 2009. Groundbreaking for the ballpark took place on August 2, 2007, with construction being completed in April 2009.