Although hiring an attorney to draft a power of attorney costs more than doing it yourself, an improperly drafted power of attorney can end up costing a lot more in aggravation and attorney's fees down the line.
A durable power of attorney for finances -- or financial power of attorney -- is a simple, inexpensive, and reliable way to arrange for someone to manage your finances if you become incapacitated (unable to make decisions for yourself).
1 Typically, a power of an attorney for a single person is going to be cheaper than for that of a couple. 2  On the website Consumer.org, it is stated that the power of attorney can cost anywhere from $150 to as high as $290.
There are many issues to consider and one size does not fit all. The cost of a power of attorney will vary, depending on the lawyer. Many lawyers charge a flat fee to prepare estate planning documents, which includes a power of attorney.
Lawyers typically charge much more for a living trust than for a will, even though a simple living trust is a fairly standard document, like a will. It’s rare to see a price of less than $1200 or $1500 for a trust. One caveat: After your will has been property signed and witnessed, you’re done.
The price varies by state and by who drafts it up. In most states there are no Forms for a POA because each one should be tailored to the situation and state laws vary so much. This is not a do it yourself form because it has so much power and can do so much damage AND must conform to your state's laws.
Flat Fees. It’s very common for a lawyer to charge a flat fee to write a will and other basic estate planning documents. The low end for a simple lawyer-drafted will is around $300. A price of closer to $1,000 is more common, and it’s not unusual to find a $1,200 price tag. Lawyers like flat fees for several reasons.
A power of attorney lets you appoint someone you trust to handle important financial and legal matters on your behalf either immediately or only if you are unable to make decisions for yourself.
A: Getting a durable power of attorney for finances, sometimes referred to by the initials, DPOA can be at no charge. Most states have the form available online, or it can be obtained through Legal Aid offices, or elder legal services providers.