Posted in Gardening Tips by Stuart. 3. To stop cats pooping in the garden, you can use mechanical barriers, chemical or natural deterrents or sound repellents. Along with these three methods, employ diversionary or preventive tactics to stop cats pooping in the garden. There Are Many Ways To STOP Cats Pooping in Your Garden.
This is one way to use natural cat repellents, specifically, to keep cats from pooping in your garden. After all, it's not for nothing we have the expression, pussyfooting around.. I already mentioned chicken wire in this context on Page 1, but below I'll suggest a couple of materials found in nature.
Try concrete-reinforcing wire or chicken wire with 1-inch openings. You can lay this wire across the paths that lead to your garden. Cats do not like the openings in the wire on their paws and will usually stay away. 1  You can also lay the wire across your beds and cover it with mulch.
To stop cats from pooping in the garden, try to make the area as uninviting as possible by covering bare soil with materials such as sticky pinecones or thorny rosebush prunings, or insert upright sticks or plastic forks into the open spaces of the garden.
Mulch the garden. Most cats don't like the feel of large pieces of mulch, so they will avoid the areas with it. In addition, part of the attraction of a garden is the fresh dirt, which most cats view as a litter box. By covering up the fresh dirt, you make that area less inviting.
Hi-tech approaches to keeping cats from pooping in gardens don't stop with the motion-activated sprinklers mentioned on Page 1. You can also use ultrasound. 10. Ultrasound devices such as Cat Stop operate on a high frequency. It's inaudible to humans but unbearable for cats.
Cats love catnip and cat mint, and you can distract them from your garden by planting it in another part of the yard. Cats will be drawn to that area rather than to your tomato plants. Be warned, though, that this method may draw more cats to your yard.
Cats tend to use gardens as their personal outdoor litter boxes. If your own cats or neighborhood cats use your garden as a litter box, you can discourage this behavior or prevent it altogether.