Brief Epilogue on the Gallipoli Campaign. Eventually in winter 1915, the troops were evacuated from Sulva, Cape Helles, and Anzac Cove. The Gallipoli Campaign was a failure and Winston Churchill was humiliated. ...read more. Brief prologue on the Gallipoli Campaign The campaign at Gallipoli was one of the most major events, and most devastating events for the British during the First World War.
The Battle of Gallipoli took place on the Turkish peninsula of Gallipoli from April 1915 to January 1916 during the First World War. A combined British Empire and French opera … tion was mounted in order to eventually capture the Ottoman capital of Constantinople (now Istanbul). …   In brief, the campaign was a failure. It was a failure as we did not successfully push through the Turkish lines to Istanbul, and then on to attack the Germans on another front to help the Russians who were suffering heavy causualties at the time.
While the campaign is considered a military failure, Gallipoli became a household name in Australia and with it the ANZAC tradition was created. Gallipoli became the common tie forged in adversity that bound the colonies and people of Australia into a nation. 
The aim of the Gallipoli campaign and why it failed? In 1915 The Gallipoli campaign was designed to knock Turkey out of war. The allies wanted to invade Turkey and therefore be able to bring supplies and arms to the Russians for their immense German front. They wished to be able to form a supply route through the Dardanelle's. Of the 16, 000 landed on the first morning, 2,000 were killed and between two and three thousand were wounded. The primary objective was that the Turks would be driven back and that Constantinople would be reached within a matter of weeks.
The Gallipoli Campaign, also known as the Dardanelles Campaign, the Battle of Gallipoli or the Battle of Çanakkale (çanakkale: Çanakkale Canakkale), çanakkale savaşı was a Campaign Of World war i that took place On the (Gallipoli peninsula gelibolu In) modern turkey In The ottoman empire Between 25 april 1915 And 9. january 1916 The naval attack was repelled and after eight months' fighting, with many casualties on both sides, the land campaign was abandoned and the invasion force was withdrawn to Egypt. The campaign was one of the greatest Ottoman victories during the war.
Gallipoli memorial site at the coastal town of Eceabat in Gallipoli peninsula (Niall Carson/PA). The aim of the Gallipoli Campaign was to change the course of the First World War and knock Turkey out of the conflict by attacking Constantinople. The idea was that by opening a second front 1,000 miles to the east it would assist Russia, which was cut off from the Allies. 
Gallipoli The Allied Failure By T.H.E. Travers April 25, 1915 - Cape Helles On the 17th of April 1915, Hasan Ethem, a young Turkish soldier in the famous 57th Regiment of Mustafa Kemal's 19th Division, a teacher in civilian life, wrote a last letter to his mother from Gallipoli. 
Introduction. The Gallipoli Campaign of 1915-16, also known as the Battle of Gallipoli or the Dardanelles Campaign, was an unsuccessful attempt by the Allied Powers to control the sea route from Europe to Russia during World War I. 
The Gallipoli attack took place on the Turkish peninsula of Gallipoli from April 1915 to January 1916 during the First World War. This campaign was a British plan which was expected to defeat Germany through attacking Turkey. The Turks took the control of Dardanelles strait, which was an access route to the Black Sea. Winston Churchill, the First Lord of the Admiralty, wanted to capture the Dardanelles which then they could easily send supplies and troops to Russia. On February 19, the British navy used submarines and tanks to attack the Dardanelles not knowing the fact that the Turks have placed mines for trapping them