Equus-type genus of the Equidae: only surviving genus of the family Equidae. Equus caballus, horse-solid-hoofed herbivorous quadruped domesticated since prehistoric times. ass-hardy and sure-footed animal smaller and with longer ears than the horse. domestic ass, donkey, Equus asinus-domestic beast of burden descended from the African wild ass; patient but stubborn.
Equus. Equus is a play by Peter Shaffer written in 1973, telling the story of a psychiatrist who attempts to treat a young man who has a pathological religious fascination with horses. Shaffer was inspired to write Equus when he heard of a crime involving a 17-year-old who blinded six horses in a small town near Suffolk
Equus is a genus of mammals in the family Equidae, which includes horses, asses, and zebras. Within Equidae, Equus is the only recognized extant genus, comprising seven living species. The term equine refers to any member of this genus, including horses. Like Equidae more broadly, Equus has numerous extinct species known only from fossils. Mitochondrial evidence supports the division of Equus species into non-caballoid (which includes zebras and asses) and caballoids or true horses (which includes E. ferus and E. przewalskii).
equus. A Latin term that translates to 'horse' in English. The term is used in many forms of art. 1. Equus-by Peter Shaffer: A play in that examens the psychological world of a boy, Alan, after he commits an act of violence on some horses. This book explores the relationship between horses and Alan. 2. Equus-by Eric Whitacre: A song, beautifully composed with various repeating rythems played in different ways.
It is a 2nd Declension noun. The conjugations are as follows: equus -- Nominative Singular -- 'the horse'. equi -- Genitive Singular -- 'of the horse/the horse's'. equo -- Dative Singular -- 'to the horse'. equum -- Accusative Singular -- 'the horse/a horse' (direct object). equo -- Ablative Singular -- 'by the horse/with the horse/from the horse'. There are many ways to get equus on howrse: 1. You can sell items in the market. droppings are a good way to make equus and selling aging points is a good way to get equus f … ast 2. You can make your horse do lessons for its EC. This will give you the ammount of eqquus the EC pays usually between 10 and 20e-Now 40 and 50 3
Equus caballus; horse (solid-hoofed herbivorous quadruped domesticated since prehistoric times). ass (hardy and sure-footed animal smaller and with longer ears than the horse). domestic ass; donkey; Equus asinus (domestic beast of burden descended from the African wild ass; patient but stubborn). Equus quagga; quagga (mammal of South Africa that resembled a zebra; extinct since late 19th century). Holonyms (Equus is a member of...): Equidae; family Equidae (horses; asses; zebras; extinct animals).
1 horse (meaning) : …Related to hurry. 2  Noun horse (pl. horses) A hoofed mammal, Equus ferus caballus, often used throughout history for riding and draft work. 3  A cowboy's greatest…. 4  kawaru (meaning) : kawaru (Apalai) Apalaí & origin History From portuguese, cavalo From latin.  caballus 1 Noun horse (pl. horses) A hoofed mammal, Equus ferus caballus, often used throughout history for riding and draft work. 2  A cowboy's greatest…. 3  kawaru (meaning) : kawaru (Apalai) Apalaí & origin History From portuguese, cavalo From latin. 4  Caballus noun kawaru horse (Kawaru) Japanese alternative forms 変る 代わる….  替わる
Noun. 1. Equus-type genus of the Equidae: only surviving genus of the family Equidae. genus Equus. mammal genus-a genus of mammals. Equus caballus, horse-solid-hoofed herbivorous quadruped domesticated since prehistoric times. ass-hardy and sure-footed animal smaller and with longer ears than the horse. domestic ass, donkey, Equus asinus-domestic beast of burden descended from the African wild ass; patient but stubborn.