If you mean a sauce containing meat then: Beef / Game: upto a full week should be safe Lamb: 3 days Chicken/other foul/Pork/offal: 1 day If in doubt then 1 day will be safe assuming it was edible to begin with! Make sure yours is that cold. Did you bring your sauce to a good rolling boil, skim the nasty scum off the top, and then cool it rapidly in an ice water bath (preferably with the pot sitting on a couple of rails so that cold water could circulate under the pot). Did you stir while it cooled.
You can help spaghetti sauce stay fresh longer by storing it in the refrigerator in a sealed container to prevent spoilage and keep out contaminants. For a long term option, spaghetti sauce can be placed in a freezer safe container in the freezer. Remember, once spaghetti sauce is opened-whether it came from a jar, a can, a package, or homemade spaghetti sauce it should be kept stored in the refrigerator and used within within 5-10 Days depending on the brand of sauce.
1 Shredded Parmesan cheese: 1 month (refrigerator) or 3-4 months (freezer). 2  Opened jar of natural peanut butter: 4 to 6 months (refrigerator) or 2-3 months (freezer). 3  Opened jar of pasta sauce: 4 days (refrigerator). 4  Unopened coffee jar: 2 years (pantry). Breads and Grains. 1  Store-bought bagels: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 2 months (freezer). 2  Commercial breads: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 3 months (freezer). 3  Unopened flavored rice: 6 months (pantry).
1 Opened jar of natural peanut butter: 4 to 6 months (refrigerator) or 2-3 months (freezer). 2  Opened jar of pasta sauce: 4 days (refrigerator). 3  Unopened coffee jar: 2 years (pantry). 4  Olives: 2 weeks (refrigerator); don’t freeze. Breads and Grains. 1  Store-bought bagels: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 2 months (freezer). 2  Commercial breads: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 3 months (freezer). 3  Unopened flavored rice: 6 months (pantry).
Meats and Poultry. 1  Raw sausage (pork, beef, or turkey): 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 3  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). Breads and Grains. 1  Store-bought bagels: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 2 months (freezer). 2  Commercial breads: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 3 months (freezer). 3  Unopened flavored rice: 6 months (pantry).
1 Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 2  Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). Breads and Grains. 1  Store-bought bagels: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 2 months (freezer). 2  Commercial breads: 1 to 2 weeks (refrigerator) or 3 months (freezer). 3  Unopened flavored rice: 6 months (pantry).
Best Answer: most leftovers are good for 3-4 days, tops. i definitely would just toss it and make some more. it does last way longer if you freeze it. sometimes when i have lots of extra pasta sauce, i freeze it in ziploc bags. the bags make the sauce super easy to defrost and use. Source(s): irish_3078 · 9 years ago. 
Most pasta sauces do NOT have any preservatives. Therefore, be sure to cook your sauce if it has been opened and stored in the fridge for longer than 4-5 days-but toss the sauce for sure if it has been more than 9-10 days or if you see any signs of mold formation. Many have asked about opened jars of spaghetti sauce. Remember, once spaghetti sauce is opened-whether it came from a jar, a can, a package, or homemade spaghetti sauce it should be kept stored in the refrigerator and used within within 5-10 Days depending on the brand of sauce.
j. I add wine to mine, but I can guarantee it will last at least two weeks on the bottom shelf in a good sealed container in the back of the fridge. I bet in the winter it will lst 3 to 4 weeks since it is cooked, vs, say, salsa, which is fresh. 