1 Prices can start at less than $1 a square foot for inexpensive tiles, but decent vinyl runs $2-$5 a square foot or $162-$405 for a 9x9-foot bathroom, with the higher-end products offering extremely durable and realistic simulations of stone, tile or other materials. 1 If you're flooring a small space, ask about vinyl sheet remnants or the bolt ends of linoleum which can be up to 50 percent off, and BizRate.com lists miscellaneous lots of overstocked vinyl tiles.
The Costs. Minimum Cost: $5.92 per square foot. Maximum Cost: $11.19 per square foot. Basic interlocking tile installations generally cost homeowners between $525 and $725 total for a project of 100 square feet, which includes $355 to $400 for the materials and $170 to $330 for the labor.
Take your total square footage (length x width of room), and divide that number by nine. That will give you the what that space equals in square yards (with a square yard equaling 3 sq. ft.). Average vinyl floor costs for installation is around $4 to $6 per square yard. With a comparatively easy installation process, products such as Armstrong vinyl tile provide quality flooring option at an affordable price. The 12″ x 12″ tile comes packaged with 40 pieces per container, at a cost of about $32 per container, or 80¢ per sq.ft. Vinyl sheeting comes in sizes ranging from 6′ to 12′ wide.
Do you need to know the average cost to install Interlocking Tiles in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Interlocking Tile job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. 
Brand: Congoleum Ultima. + plus about $600 in installation costs (including floor base). + and an additional $600 because we had to replace the old underlayment (because there was asbestos on it). It cost more to get the plywood underlayment. 1 If you're flooring a small space, ask about vinyl sheet remnants or the bolt ends of linoleum which can be up to 50 percent off, and BizRate.com lists miscellaneous lots of overstocked vinyl tiles.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Vinyl Tile Flooring Installation project. For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Vinyl Tile Flooring ranges between $5.33 - $7.00 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1
How to Install Interlocking Flooring. Installing interlocking flooring requires you to make sure that the grooves on each piece of tile fit nicely together. Install interlocking flooring with help from a Foreman for Lighty Contractors in this free video clip. 
Our vinyl flooring calculator below is very basic to give you a rough idea of the total square footage needed of vinyl flooring and a estimated cost for material only ... Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm). Cost To Install a Locking Floor System-DIYorNot. Find the average cost to install a locking floor system yourself compared with the labor and material cost of hiring a floor installer. Use your ZIP Code to adjust the cost to where you live so you can decide to do it yourself ...
2015 Flooring Installation Costs | Average Price to Install Flooring. HomeAdvisor's flooring cost guide offers average cost information reported by ... Even once you decide on a material, you won't be able to calculate costs until you settle ... vinyl and linoleum can save you tons in both material and labor costs. Cost To Install a Locking Floor System-DIYorNot. Find the average cost to install a locking floor system yourself compared with the labor and material cost of hiring a floor installer. Use your ZIP Code to adjust the cost to where you live so you can decide to do it yourself ...
1 Whether tile (usually 12x12-, 13x13- or 20x20-inches) or sheets, linoleum prices usually include installation and range $3-4 a square foot or $250-$350 for that 9x9 room, but high-end linoleum can run well over $4 a square foot. 1 If you're flooring a small space, ask about vinyl sheet remnants or the bolt ends of linoleum which can be up to 50 percent off, and BizRate.com lists miscellaneous lots of overstocked vinyl tiles.