Uncompromising microbe fighters. For more than 4 decades Betadine ® Microbicides have been used in homes and hospitals worldwide as an important first line of defense against topical infections. Betadine Microbicides help to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection. 
(Redirected from Betadine). Betadine is a stable chemical complex of polyvinylpyrrolidone (povidone, PVP) and elemental iodine. It contains from 9.0% to 12.0% available iodine, calculated on a dry basis. This unique complex was discovered in 1955 at the Industrial Toxicology Laboratories in Philadelphia by H. A. Shelanski and M. V. Shelanski. Betadine was immediately marketed, and has since become the universally preferred iodine antiseptic. Betadine is only sold for the purpose of healing wounds, and not as an oral sore throat gargle, as widely thought.
The difference between Betadine and Iodine, basically, stems from their chemical nature. Iodine is a rare element that usually exists as a diatomic molecule. Betadine is a complex chemical compound containing iodine in a complex form. Both iodine and betadine have numerous commercial uses and unique applications; basically betadine is used as an antiseptic solution and pure iodine is a chemical element in the periodic table. This article explains the chemical nature, uses, and the differences between Betadine and Iodine in detail. Both Betadine and Iodine contain iodine. In Betadine, iodine is present in two forms; in a complex and as the elemental form. Therefore, Betadine is a product which mainly contains iodine. Iodine is a chemical element in the halogen group.
1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Topical Betadine: Betadine is the brand name for several topical preparations (scrub, spray, swabs, pads, etc) with 5-10% povidone-iodine, a strong antiseptic, used to prevent bacterial growth. Iodine is a chemical element that the thyroid gland uses to synthesize thyroid hormone. Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends on items: Povidone iodine (betadine) is found in several topical preparations (scrub, spray, swabs, pads, etc) as
Betadine is an antiseptic solution that contains a complex of iodine. It was introduced in the 1960s and it is the most commonly used iodophor in modern clinical use. Povidone iodine (PVP-Iodine) is the active substance in Betadine; it is a complex of polyvinylpyrrolidone (povidone or PVP). Both Betadine and Iodine contain iodine. In Betadine, iodine is present in two forms; in a complex and as the elemental form. Therefore, Betadine is a product which mainly contains iodine. Iodine is a chemical element in the halogen group.
POVIDONE IODINE USES. Povidone iodine is used to prevent and treat infection. It is a germicide, sometimes known as an antiseptic. It is used as an antiseptic for skin that is infected or that is likely to become infected. Povidone iodine works by slowly releasing iodine which kills or prevents the growth of bacteria, fungi and viruses.
Povidone-iodine applied to an abrasion using a cotton swab. Povidone-iodine is a broad spectrum antiseptic for topical application in the treatment and prevention of infection in wounds. May be used in first aid for minor cuts, grazes, burns, abrasions and blisters. Betadine was immediately marketed, and has since become the universally preferred iodine antiseptic. Betadine is only sold for the purpose of healing wounds, and not as an oral sore throat gargle, as widely thought.