Beer fermenting at a brewery. Fermentation in food processing is the conversion of carbohydrates to alcohols and carbon dioxide or organic acids using yeasts, bacteria, or a combination thereof, under anaerobic conditions. Fermentation usually implies that the action of microorganisms is desirable. Beer and bread, two major uses of fermentation in food. The primary benefit of fermentation is the conversion of sugars and other carbohydrates into preservative organic acids, e.g. converting juice into wine, grains into beer, carbohydrates into carbon dioxide to leaven bread, and sugars in vegetables.
For example, some single-celled organisms live where there is no oxygen, such as deep in the ocean or in the mud of lakes or swamps. These organisms obtain their energy through fermentation, an energy-releasing process that does not require oxygen. One product of this type of fermentation is an acid known as lactic acid. When lactic acid builds up, you feel a painful sensation in your muscles. Your muscles feel weak and sore.
The term fermentation is sometimes used to specifically refer to the chemical conversion of sugars into ethanol, a process which is used to produce alcoholic beverages such as wine, beer, and cider. Beer and bread, two major uses of fermentation in food. The primary benefit of fermentation is the conversion of sugars and other carbohydrates into preservative organic acids, e.g. converting juice into wine, grains into beer, carbohydrates into carbon dioxide to leaven bread, and sugars in vegetables.
Beer is produced by the fermentation of grains. Beer production is actually a bit more complex than simple fermentation. The yeast involved, usually Saccharomyces cerevisiae (cerevisiae is Latin for beer), is only able to ferment sugar, not the starch-heavy grains. Inside the seeds is amylase, an enzyme that breaks down the starch into sugar, allowing the yeast to do their thing. Grain fermentation usually produces only about 3-6% alcohol. Wine is produced by the fermentation of fruit.
Naturally-present lactic-acid bacteria (LAB), one of which is Lc. mesenteroides, produce lactic and acetic acids that: Walk through any untended apple orchard on a beautiful fall day, and take a good deep whiff of fallen apples, lying in the grass. What you smell, and probably see, is a spontaneous, and natural, lacto-fermentation process! The apple’s deep, almost heady perfume is magnified – richer and more complex than apples still remaining on the tree. Simply put, lacto-fermentation is a microbial process using beneficial bacteria including Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium spp. and other lactic acid bacteria (LAB) (commonly known as probiotics), which thrive in an anaerobic fermenting environment.
Fermentation is the anaerobic breakdown of sugar, producing energy and waste products, like ethanol and carbon dioxide. Historically, it was the yeasts that were naturally living on the fruits or grains that performed the fermentation. Inside the seeds is amylase, an enzyme that breaks down the starch into sugar, allowing the yeast to do their thing. Grain fermentation usually produces only about 3-6% alcohol. Wine is produced by the fermentation of fruit.
The basic procedure of red wine production is outlined in the diagram. An important point in making red wine is that the fermenting must consists of juice skins and seeds. As a result, the composition of red wine is determined by the constituents extracted from skins and seeds in addition to those present in the juice. This fermentation is caused by the cell’s own enzymes, (without yeast). The fermentation produces a small amount of alcohol (about 1.5 to 2.5%), and brings about many changes in the must composition. The fermentation is carried out for about eight to ten days. The temperature is held near 95 ºF.
Whales use lactic acid fermentation to get much of their energy during a deep dive. 
Lacto-fermentation is growing in popularity as more and more people discover the health benefits of this ancient food preservation method. But I have to tell ya, the taste of these foods are a benefit as well. 