Develop, package, and deploy powerful applications and services to the cloud with Azure Cloud Services and the click of a button. Scale from 1 to 1000 in minutes. Once your application is deployed, that’s it: from provisioning, to load-balancing, to health monitoring, Azure handles the rest. 
Microsoft Azure is a growing collection of integrated cloud services—analytics, computing, database, mobile, networking, storage, and web—for moving faster, achieving more, and saving money. Rely on a trusted cloud. From small dev-test projects to global product launches, Azure is engineered to handle any workload. More than 57 percent of Fortune 500 companies rely on Azure, which offers enterprise grade SLAs on services, 24/7 tech support, and round-the-clock service health monitoring.
Azure is an Internet-scale computing and services platform hosted in data centers managed or supported by Microsoft. It includes many separate features with corresponding developer services which can be used individually or together. Microsoft Azure content is split between azure.microsoft.com and MSDN (where you are now). Technical getting started content is now largely on azure.microsoft.com. API and REST references are on MSDN.
Microsoft Azure includes a number of improvements to Visual Studio Online, including Team Projects for managing application lifecycles and a lightweight editor codenamed Monaco that allows developers to modify and commit code changes without leaving Microsoft Azure. Azure Event Hubs-allows applications to process events with variable load profiles. Azure HDInsight Service-provides customers with a Hadoop-based service for big data. Microsoft Azure Key-provides customers with encryption key management capabilities. Azure load balancer-provides customers with a way to distribute traffic among service instance s in Azure Cloud Services or Azure Virtual Machines
And the Azure service pack that will sit on top of Windows Server and Microsoft System Center is itself not just a set of stray code modules but what Microsoft likes to call a cloud operating system that works in conjunction with Windows in the data center. Microsoft is in an unusually strong position to make the claim. Azure started as platform-as-a-service in 2010 -- a cloud environment aimed at developers -- and didn't move into general availability infrastructure-as-a-service until April 2013.
Azure Traffic Manager-allows customers to route incoming traffic across multiple hosted Azure services. Azure Virtual Machines-allows customers to deploy a Windows Server or Linux image in the cloud. Azure Virtual Network-allows customers to create VPNs that are hosted in the cloud. Azure Event Hubs-allows applications to process events with variable load profiles. Azure HDInsight Service-provides customers with a Hadoop-based service for big data. Microsoft Azure Key-provides customers with encryption key management capabilities. Azure load balancer-provides customers with a way to distribute traffic among service instance s in Azure Cloud Services or Azure Virtual Machines
Any developer or IT professional can be productive with Azure. The integrated tools, pre-built templates and managed services make it easier to build and manage enterprise, mobile, Web and Internet of Things (IoT) apps faster, using skills you already have and technologies you already know. Rely on a trusted cloud. From small dev-test projects to global product launches, Azure is engineered to handle any workload. More than 57 percent of Fortune 500 companies rely on Azure, which offers enterprise grade SLAs on services, 24/7 tech support, and round-the-clock service health monitoring.
Some people thought Microsoft's naming of its Windows Azure cloud services meant that Windows was now in the cloud. In fact, it's the other way around. It means the Azure cloud will soon be in Windows, the server operating system already occupying 70% of the data center floor, in many cases. Microsoft is in an unusually strong position to make the claim. Azure started as platform-as-a-service in 2010 -- a cloud environment aimed at developers -- and didn't move into general availability infrastructure-as-a-service until April 2013.
Microsoft Azure /ˈaeʒər/ ˈæʒər is a cloud computing platform and, infrastructure created By, microsoft for, building deploying and managing applications and services through a global network Of-microsoft managed And microsoft partner hosted. datacenters Microsoft Azure has been described as a cloud layer on top of a number of Windows Server systems, which use Windows Server 2008 and a customized version of Hyper-V, known as the Microsoft Azure Hypervisor to provide virtualization of services.