'POLYCRETE ® ' is ACO's trademark for products made from polymer concrete produced in Australia. It encompasses ACO's extensive portfolio of polymer concrete pits, channels, ducts, lids, risers and containment sumps. Polymer concrete, also referred to as artificial granite, is a composite material consisting of dry aggregate fillers and a monomer system, polymerised in place by catalysed peroxide decomposition. The principal components of polymer concrete are gravel, sand and calcium carbonate bound together with a polymer resin.
POLYCRETE is a seamless urethane concrete overlay system. It's the ideal solution for commercial kitchens and service areas where a durable, seamless, waterproof, non-skid, anti-microbial surface is desirable. The disadvantage of a vinyl composite floor (VCP) is that it is susceptible to staining and denting. Furthermore, it's not a true seamless floor -- the seams in composite sheet vinyl are heat welded together. Sooner or later, in heavy traffic areas, these seams will break, peal, or bust.
In polymer concrete, thermosetting resins are used as the principal polymer component due to their high thermal stability and resistance to a wide variety of chemicals. Polymer concrete is also composed of aggregates that include silica, quartz, granite, limestone, and other high quality material. The aggregate must be of good quality, free of dust and other debris, and dry. Failure to fulfill these criteria can reduce the bond strength between the polymer binder and the aggregate.
Polymer concrete is part of group of concretes that use polymers to supplement or replace cement as a binder. The types include polymer-impregnated concrete, polymer concrete, and polymer-Portland-cement concrete. Polymers in concrete have been overseen by Committee 548 of the American Concrete Institute since 1971. Polymer concrete is also composed of aggregates that include silica, quartz, granite, limestone, and other high quality material. The aggregate must be of good quality, free of dust and other debris, and dry. Failure to fulfill these criteria can reduce the bond strength between the polymer binder and the aggregate.
PolycreteUSA is the US distributor for Polycrete Big Block, the internationally acknowledged leader in commercial insulated concrete forming (ICF) technology. OK, I Like The Idea. Polycrete Big Block is the first ICF designed specifically for commercial construction. At sixteen square feet per block, it's three times larger than typical ICFs.
Polycrete was a very common material used by human civilians and military personnel to build structures of many different kinds. It is used for building numerous things, particularly in the Outer Colonies of the UNSC. Many of the buildings of Harvest were comprised of polycrete and many structures on Tribute were as well. However, polycrete is mainly used for durability, not protection. It is quite vulnerable to explosive ordinances, which can easily destroy buildings composed of polycrete, making it useless in building military structures. Polycrete is also unable to stop a Gauss round from the M99 Stanchion Gauss Rifle.
Insulated Concrete Forms (ICFs) are formwork for concrete that stays in place as permanent building insulation for energy-efficient, cast-in-place, reinforced concrete walls, floors, and roofs. It applies to residential, commercial and industrial buildings. Prefab walls are easily and rapidly installed at the construction site with crane support. Prefab walls are also ready to receive interior finishing and exterior siding. Become a key player and even a leader for the ICF market thanks to our innovative system that meet the needs of a market in full expansion.
This is a unique opportunity to participate actively in building an energy efficiency that last while being profitable. Welcome to our Website. Polycrete conceives and promotes methods and solutions to facilitate the construction of all types of buildings by using insulating concrete forms (ICFs). Prefab walls are easily and rapidly installed at the construction site with crane support. Prefab walls are also ready to receive interior finishing and exterior siding. Become a key player and even a leader for the ICF market thanks to our innovative system that meet the needs of a market in full expansion.
Formulated to withstand aggressive chemical and thermal attack, Poly-Crete is the answer for the most abusive environments. Our urethane based system is a heavy duty seamless resurfacer that provides exceptional durability and service. Ideal for restoration, repair or new construction, Poly-Crete: 
Polycrete prefab walls are built under ideal factory conditions and settings. This leads to superior quality, respect of schedule and competitive pricing. Prefab walls are easily and rapidly installed at the construction site with crane support. Prefab walls are also ready to receive interior finishing and exterior siding. Become a key player and even a leader for the ICF market thanks to our innovative system that meet the needs of a market in full expansion.