All organisms that fall into the Moneran kingdom are considered prokaryotes. They are the simplest and earliest life forms on the planet. Bacteria are part of the Moneran kingdom. All members of the kingdom Monera have no nuclei in their cells. All genetic material in these cell floats around in the cytoplasm. They have plasmid DNA. Monerans reproduce both sexually and asexually. digest their food outside of the cell and then absorb the nutrient
Monera. taxonomic kingdom that comprises the prokaryotes (bacteria bacteria[pl. of bacterium], microscopic unicellular prokaryotic organisms characterized by the lack of a membrane-bound nucleus and membrane-bound organelles. Click the link for more information. ). Prokaryotes are single-celled organisms that lack a membrane-bound nucleus and usually lack membrane-bound organelles (mitochondria, chloroplasts; see cell cell,in biology, the unit of structure and function of which all plants and animals are composed.
The Kingdom Monera includes organisms that are single-celled known as bacteria. The microorganisms in Kingdom Monera are considered as the most ancient living forms on earth. The kingdom is divided into two groups Archaebacteria and Eubacteria. All the organisms of this kingdom are prokaryotes. These cells do not have nuclear membrane, the chromosome is a single and circular, they also lack membrane bound cellular organelles. This kingdom includes bacteria, cyanobacteria, mycoplasma etc. General characteristics of the kingdom Monera are as follows: They are primitive organisms. All organisms of the kingdom are prokaryotes. They are present in both living and non-living environment. They can survive in harsh and extreme climatic conditions like in hot springs, acidic soils etc.
Kingdom Monera. Monerans are single-celled organisms that have no nucleus or. organelles, they are prokaryotic which means they contain a cell membrane, cell wall, DNA, plasmids (circular pieces of dna), ribosomes and cytoplasm containing enzymmes. Eubacteria the largest phyllum are prokaryotic organisms as characterized by the lack of a membrane and enclosed nucleuse. They are unnicellular with DNA in single circular chromosomes, and have a cell wall present.
Plasmids-Circular DNA molecules found in prokaryotes. Prokaryotes-Organisms whose cells lack internal organization into organelles and whose genetic material is not contained within a membrane-bound nucleus. Prokaryote flagella-The type of flagellum found in prokaryotes. These flagella are not covered by the cell membrane and move in a spiral motion. 
Under the three-domain system of taxonomy, introduced by Carl Woese in 1977, which reflects the evolutionary history of life, the organisms found in kingdom Monera have been divided into two domains, Archaea and Bacteria (with Eukarya as the third domain). Monera (/məˈnɪərə/ mə-NEER-ə) is a kingdom that contains unicellular organisms with a prokaryotic cell organization (having no nuclear membrane), such as bacteria. The taxon Monera was first proposed as a phylum by Ernst Haeckel in 1866
Furthermore, the taxon Monera is paraphyletic (does not include all descendants of their most recent common ancestor), as Archaea and Eukarya are currently believed to be more closely related than either is to Bacteria. Monera (/məˈnɪərə/ mə-NEER-ə) is a kingdom that contains unicellular organisms with a prokaryotic cell organization (having no nuclear membrane), such as bacteria. The taxon Monera was first proposed as a phylum by Ernst Haeckel in 1866
Monera vary in ways and is mostly single celled. Known as a prokaryote it has no nucleus or brain. Mostly living in microscopic colonies the monera do many things like invadin … g other organisms. Sometimes the monera are dormant because they are not in the right environment and needs the right one. Dividing into 2 twins every 20 minutes they grow to the millions every day.