Lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell generated by the immune system to defend the body against cancerous cells, pathogens, and foreign matter. Lymphocytes circulate in blood and lymph fluid and are found in body tissues including the spleen, thymus, bone marrow, lymph nodes, tonsils, and liver. They are B lymphocytes (B cells) and T lymphocytes (T cells). B cells. B cells develop from bone marrow stem cells in adults. When B cells become activated due to the presence of a particular antigen, they create antibodies that are specific to that specific antigen.
The lymphocyte is the main cell of the lymphoid tissue. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell which produce antibodies to kill any pathogens which invade the body. They a … re small white blood cells which have large nuclei, but no granules. They produce antibodies that fight disease and harmful microbes in the body or mark the disease for the phagocytes to engulf.
Main articles: T cell and B cell. T cells (thymus cells) and B cells (bone marrow-or bursa-derived cells) are the major cellular components of the adaptive immune response. T cells are involved in cell-mediated immunity, whereas B cells are primarily responsible for humoral immunity (relating to antibodies). A lymphocyte count is usually part of a peripheral complete blood cell count and is expressed as the percentage of lymphocytes to the total number of white blood cells counted. A general increase in the number of lymphocytes is known as lymphocytosis, whereas a decrease is known as lymphocytopenia.
Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell, which are an important part of the immune system. Lymphocytes can defend the body against infection because they can distinguish the body’s own cells from foreign ones. Once they recognize foreign material in the body, they produce chemicals to destroy that material. Two types of lymphocyte are produced in the bone marrow before birth. B lymphocytes, also called B cells, stay within the bone marrow until they are mature. Once mature, they spread throughout the body and concentrate in the spleen and lymph nodes.
Lymphocytes are complex cells that direct the body's immune system. T lymphocytes start in the bone marrow from pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells, then travel to and mature in the thymus gland. The thymus is located in the chest between the heart and sternum (breastbone). B lymphocytes mature in the bone marrow. 
The Immune system is a complex network of cells (such as lymphocytes) and organs that work together to defend the body against foreign substances (antigens) such as bacteria, a virus or tumor cell. When the body discovers such a substance several kinds of cells go into action in what is called an immune response. Lymphocytes are divided mainly into B and T cells. 1  B lymphocytes produce antibodies-proteins (gamma globulins) that recognize foreign substances (antigen) and attach themselves to them. 2  B lymphocytes (or B cells) are each programmed to make one specific antibody.
They include natural killer cells (NK cells) (which function in cell-mediated, cytotoxic innate immunity), T cells (for cell-mediated, cytotoxic adaptive immunity), and B cells (for humoral, antibody-driven adaptive immunity). They are the main type of cell found in lymph, which prompted the name lymphocyte. A lymphocyte count is usually part of a peripheral complete blood cell count and is expressed as the percentage of lymphocytes to the total number of white blood cells counted. A general increase in the number of lymphocytes is known as lymphocytosis, whereas a decrease is known as lymphocytopenia.
Answer by Jameelaiahmed. Confidence votes 320. Lymphocytes are a type of small white blood cell present in the human immune system. These small cells play a very large and important role in fighting diseases in the human body. There are basically two types of lymphocyte cells: B-cells and T-cells. The lymphocyte is the main cell of the lymphoid tissue. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell which produce antibodies to kill any pathogens which invade the body. They a … re small white blood cells which have large nuclei, but no granules. They produce antibodies that fight disease and harmful microbes in the body or mark the disease for the phagocytes to engulf