Kings Norton/ King's Norton is a classic village centre with its church, timber-framed manor house and pub focussed around a green. The village developed here during the Middle Ages, possibly on the site of the Anglo-Saxon settlement, with open strip fields surrounding the village. 
Kings Norton, along with many of the small towns near Birmingham, expanded considerably in the 19th century with a railway link into Birmingham passing by the new Bournville factory just to the north. In 1616, King James granted permission to hold markets and fairs at Kings Norton. Both the original fairs and the market eventually fell into disuse. At some later date, a mop fair began to be held on the Green on the first Monday of October. A mop fair was a hiring fair where people would go looking for employment.
Kings Norton is a suburb to the south of Birmingham rich in local history but expanded considerably in the 19th century with the introduction of the railway link into Birmingham passing by the Bourneville factory just to the north. Alternatively if you own a property which you wish to rent out and are looking for a letting agency in Kings Norton, we are one of the areas longest established lettings agents with a professional property management service. Please contact us if you wish to organise an initial no obligation market appraisal.
Kings Norton (sometime King's Norton) is an area of Birmingham, England. Historically in Worcestershire, it is also a Birmingham City Council ward within the Government of Birmingham, England. In 1616, King James granted permission to hold markets and fairs at Kings Norton. Both the original fairs and the market eventually fell into disuse. At some later date, a mop fair began to be held on the Green on the first Monday of October. A mop fair was a hiring fair where people would go looking for employment.
Kings Norton in Birmingham is a sh*thole, it’s rough as f**k, all the youths around there are black and asian inner city youths, in gangs drug dealing and drug taking around their big victorian brick terrace turning them into urban inner city gang slums, high rise city rough as f**k place King Norton in Birmingham. I went up one road thinking it looked a nice area, but out came the local chavscum, little miss dolescums with their tracksuit bottoms pushing a welfare chick in a pushchair followed by a couple of hooded piss stinking tracksuit wearing pikeys. Then we come to the local schools.
Historically, Kings Norton had been part of Worcestershire, but from 1898, it was part of the King's Norton and Northfield urban district until added to Birmingham in 1911 by the Greater Birmingham Act. In 1616, King James granted permission to hold markets and fairs at Kings Norton. Both the original fairs and the market eventually fell into disuse. At some later date, a mop fair began to be held on the Green on the first Monday of October. A mop fair was a hiring fair where people would go looking for employment.
King's Norton Village as a Conservation Area. The area embraces the Village Green as the commercial centre, the Library and Schools on Pershore Road South; the Parish owned buildings and graveyard, part of the park, St Nicolas Gardens and the Church Hall. The local authority has to have good reason for making these restrictions, and must take account of public views before doing so. King's Norton Village Green was designated a conservation area by Birmingham City Council in 1969 and this was further extended in 1989.
Kings Norton was the scene of a couple of minor episodes during the English Civil War. In the first of these, a force led by Prince Rupert of the Rhine, numbering some 300, was resting on Kings Norton Green. In 1616, King James granted permission to hold markets and fairs at Kings Norton. Both the original fairs and the market eventually fell into disuse. At some later date, a mop fair began to be held on the Green on the first Monday of October. A mop fair was a hiring fair where people would go looking for employment.
Parts of Kings Norton are actually really nice, I live in an nice part of King’s Norton, but we’re surrounded by rough as f**k areas such as Druid’s Heath and Hawkesely, and people have such an obsession with their postcode here, yes, I get it, you live in B30, now shut the f**k up. I went up one road thinking it looked a nice area, but out came the local chavscum, little miss dolescums with their tracksuit bottoms pushing a welfare chick in a pushchair followed by a couple of hooded piss stinking tracksuit wearing pikeys. Then we come to the local schools.