The first known reference to the name Vaseline was by the inventor of petroleum jelly, Robert Chesebrough in his U.S. patent for the process of making petroleum jelly (U.S. Patent 127,568) in 1872. I, Robert Chesebrough, have invented a new and useful product from petroleum which I have named Vaseline.... Chesebrough took samples of the rod wax back to Brooklyn, extracted the usable petroleum jelly, and began manufacturing the medicinal product he called Vaseline. Vaseline was made by the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company until the company was purchased by Unilever in 1987.
First, a quick primer on where petroleum products like Vaseline come from, and why they’re not eco-friendly: Petroleum jelly is basically a byproduct of the oil industry. It’s a leftover residue created during the refinery of crude oil, and as such, isn’t a sustainable resource, according to many. I am not a rocket scientist, but I do know that every product effects each person differently. Vaseline is the only product that helps with my fever blisters. It may not work for you,but take in consideration people that use the internet and don’t know. Aquaphor is 50% petroleum jelly.
Use Vaseline to soften rough skin. While Vaseline is not a moisturizer, it can be used to soften skin and lock in moisture on dry skin. You can use Vaseline as a spot-treatment for dry-skin, especially during winter, helping to protect skin exposed to adverse weather conditions. 1 Apply Vaseline to your elbows or knees to help moisturize the skin and rid the areas of any ashy texture or appearance. 2  If you have callouses or rough spots on your feet, apply a thin coat of Vaseline at night then slip on some clean socks.
Vaseline Jelly works by creating a sealing barrier between cells in dry or damaged skin which locks in moisture and speeds up your skin’s natural recovery process, helping it to heal from within. Only Vaseline Intensive Care lotions are infused with rich moisturizers and triple-purified healing micro-droplets of Vaseline Jelly. This fast-absorbing, non greasy formulation absorbs deeply to help heal dry skin deep down.
Petroleum jelly, petrolatum, white petrolatum, soft paraffin or multi-hydrocarbon, CAS number 8009-03-8, is a semi-solid mixture of hydrocarbons (with carbon numbers mainly higher than 25), originally promoted as a topical ointment for its healing properties. Petroleum jelly is a non-polar hydrocarbon hydrophobic (water-repelling) and insoluble in water. Glycerol is not a hydrocarbon. It is an alcohol that is strongly hydrophilic (water-attracting): by continuously absorbing moisture from the air, it produces the feeling of wetness on the skin.
Vaseline Jelly is the original wonder jelly. For over 140 years, it has been helping to keep skin healthy and looking beautiful. Vaseline uses the highest quality ingredients and a proprietary triple purification process involving distillation, de-aeration, and filtration. Only Vaseline Intensive Care lotions are infused with rich moisturizers and triple-purified healing micro-droplets of Vaseline Jelly. This fast-absorbing, non greasy formulation absorbs deeply to help heal dry skin deep down.
Vaseline—or in its generic form, petroleum jelly—is a by-product of the oil refining process. It forms on the bottom of oil rigs and is unwanted because it can cause them to malfunction. Of all the things petroleum jelly is, it is definitely not eco-friendly, so if that’s your bag, be aware. But that doesn't mean the product itself is dirty. It goes through a refining process, and Vaseline—the brand—is triple purified. Can't vouch for off-brand purity though.
5. Do not use Vaseline as a moisturizer. If you’ve been recommended to use a moisturizer by a dermatologist, use a moisturizing lotion, not Vaseline. If your skin is cleaned thoroughly before applying some Vaseline, it can be effective at locking in moisture, but it will not moisturize your skin. 1 Apply Vaseline to your elbows or knees to help moisturize the skin and rid the areas of any ashy texture or appearance. 2  If you have callouses or rough spots on your feet, apply a thin coat of Vaseline at night then slip on some clean socks.
While Vaseline can be used as a lubricant, it can also be used as a moisture insulator for local skin conditions characterized by tissue dehydration. Vaseline can help protect minor cuts and burns. Chesebrough took samples of the rod wax back to Brooklyn, extracted the usable petroleum jelly, and began manufacturing the medicinal product he called Vaseline. Vaseline was made by the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company until the company was purchased by Unilever in 1987.
Vaseline /ˈvaesəˌliːn/ ˈvæsəˌliːn is a brand of petroleum jelly based products owned By-Anglo dutch Company. Unilever products include plain petroleum jelly and a selection of skin, creams, soaps, lotions, cleansers, deodorants and personal. lubricants Chesebrough took samples of the rod wax back to Brooklyn, extracted the usable petroleum jelly, and began manufacturing the medicinal product he called Vaseline. Vaseline was made by the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company until the company was purchased by Unilever in 1987.