NOW ® Carbo Gain is a 100% pure complex carbohydrate supplement derived from maltodextrin, an easily digestible blend of complex carbohydrates from corn starch. Maltodextrin contains glucose polymers, linked sugar compounds that are easier for the body to assimilate and use. 
Maltodextrin can be found in many supplements. For example, there are powder supplements which contain nutritional ingredients like vitamins, minerals, amino acids, herbs, and plant extracts. Within these supplements, Maltodextrin is used to provide benefits as a carbohydrate. Maltodextrin can also be found as a supplement by itself. As a supplement by itself its entire purpose is to provide carbohydrates and energy to the body. Maltodextrin can be found in sodas, desserts, cereals, soups, sauces, and artificial sweeteners. In addition to being used as a sweetener, Maltodextrin is used to thicken the consistency of other ingredients. Maltodextrin is somewhat gooey before being broken down into powder form.
Dextrose and maltodextrin are sugars sold as powdered supplements that you can add to post-workout shakes or meals to provide a quick hit of carbs. Both maltodextrin and dextrose process so quickly, they'll both offer the insulin surge you need to hasten muscle growth. Dextrose is usually slightly less expensive than maltodextrin, if cost is a concern. Dextrose tends to taste sweeter than maltodextrin, which could also be a deciding factor for you.
This is obviously counter-productive for bodybuilders. Now, the difference between dextrose & maltodextrin is this: -Dextrose: Glucose[dextrose] - Glucose has a chemical composition of 6 carbons, 12 hydrogen, and 6 Oxygen. This is the only sugar that affects blood sugar. Glucose, when present in excess in the bloodstream is stored in the muscles as Glycogen
1. You may not be aware that maltodextrin is the main component in almost all weight-gain products. It has a significant effect on the enzymatic process which allows individuals to perform better during exercise as well as bulk up on much needed muscle mass. Maltodextrin is not very sweet compared to dextrose. It is the primary ingredient found in most weight-gainer products and supplements and come in handy for individuals who need to gain more mass and weight such as ectomorphs.
Maltodextrin is an inexpensive supplement especially when sold in powder form. Maltodextrin is easily digested by the body. If you are a bodybuilder or your goal is simply to gain weight, Maltodextrin can help you meet your weight gain goals. Maltodextrin is high in calories, and because it remains in your digestive tract longer your body does not burn it off fast. Maltodextrin can be found in sodas, desserts, cereals, soups, sauces, and artificial sweeteners. In addition to being used as a sweetener, Maltodextrin is used to thicken the consistency of other ingredients. Maltodextrin is somewhat gooey before being broken down into
Maltodextrin is a polysaccharide that is used as a food additive. It is produced from starch by partial hydrolysis and is usually found as a white hygroscopic spray-dried powder. Maltodextrin is easily digestible, being absorbed as rapidly as glucose, and might be either moderately sweet or almost flavorless. It is commonly used for the production of sodas and candy. It can also be found as an ingredient in a variety of other processed foods.
Originally Posted by AFXC1 Obviously, sugar is a fast digesting carbohydrate with a high glycemic index. This means it digests quickly and causes a rapid rise in blood sugar levels. After ingesting sugar, blood sugar levels begin to rise, which your body does not like. Now, the difference between dextrose & maltodextrin is this: -Dextrose: Glucose[dextrose] - Glucose has a chemical composition of 6 carbons, 12 hydrogen, and 6 Oxygen. This is the only sugar that affects blood sugar.
Maltodextrin is a food additive that is produced from a grain starch. In the United States, it is most commonly produced using corn, but it can also be produced from rice, potatoes and wheat. 
Dextrose and Maltodextrin Details. Dextrose is such a simple sugar that your body doesn't have to break it down, so it raises insulin almost instantaneously. It's basically dietary glucose, one type your body breaks all other sugars -- including lactose and sucrose -- into before they can be used. Maltodextrin consists of a string of glucose molecules, which your body easily breaks down so it digests almost as quickly as dextrose. Both maltodextrin and dextrose process so quickly, they'll both offer the insulin surge you need to hasten muscle growth. Dextrose is usually slightly less expensive than maltodextrin, if cost is a concern. Dextrose tends to taste sweeter than maltodextrin, which could also be a deciding factor for you.