A pilonidal cyst is a fluid-filled sac that occurs in the area at the top of the crease of the buttocks overlying the tailbone (sacrum). This cyst and the overlying skin in the area can become infected, forming a painful abscess. 1 Pilonidal cysts are fluid-filled sacs that form at the top of the crease of the buttocks above the sacrum. 2  A painful abscess can form if the cyst and the overlying skin become infected.
Patient Comments Read 40 Comments Share Your Story. A pilonidal cyst is a cystic structure that develops along the tailbone (coccyx) near the cleft of the buttocks, approximately 4 cm-5 cm from the anus. These cysts usually contain hair and skin debris
Pilonidal Cyst. Pilonidal disease is a condition in which an abnormal pocket in the skin of the lower back is found, usually near the tailbone at the top of the cleft of the buttocks.
Pilonidal (say py-luh-NY-dul) disease is a chronic skin infection in the crease between the buttocks. People with this condition have one or more cysts in that area that tend to get inflamed and infected. A pilonidal cyst may look like a small dimple (called a pit or sinus). Experts think pilonidal cysts may form in one of three ways: 1  A hair follicle in the skin becomes irritated or stretched. 2  A loose hair may get trapped in the crease between the buttocks. 3  Some cysts may be present at birth (congenital).
A. A pilonidal cyst occurs at the bottom of the tailbone (coccyx) and can become infected and filled with pus. Once infected, the technical term is pilonidal abscess. Pilonidal abscesses look like a large pimple at the bottom of the tailbone, just above the crack of the buttocks. The symptoms of a pilonidal cyst include: 1  Pain at the bottom of the spine. 2  Swelling at the bottom of the spine. 3  Redness at the bottom of the spine. 4  Draining pus.
A pilonidal sinus (PNS) is a small cyst or abscess that occurs in the cleft at the top of the buttocks. It can cause severe pain and often becomes infected. If it becomes infected, it may exude pus and blood and emit a foul smell. A pilonidal sinus is a condition that mostly affects men and is common in young adults. 
Pilonidal (say py-luh-NY-dul) disease is a chronic skin infection in the crease between the buttocks. People with this condition have one or more cysts in that area that tend to get inflamed and infected. A pilonidal cyst may look like a small dimple (called a pit or  sinus ). Hair may stick out from it. Experts think pilonidal cysts may form in one of three ways: 1  A hair follicle in the skin becomes irritated or stretched. 2  A loose hair may get trapped in the crease between the buttocks. 3  Some cysts may be present at birth (congenital).