Feather tattoo designs symbolize different things with many cultures like the Native Americans perceive wearing a feather tattoo to reflect on their rich heritage or is in touch with their spiritual side. Most people choose feather tattoos of birds with characters they like to identify with.
Peacock feather tattoo design incorporates two meanings – the general meaning of feather tattoos, and the meaning of peacock tattoos. Know what your tattoo means before you get it – you don’t want to end up with something that carries a symbolism you wouldn’t like.
Feather Tattoo Meanings-Feathers are usually associated with birds or wings or Native American imagery in most tattoo designs. A single feather as a tattoo design may represent or symbolize the ability to take flight, either spiritually, emotionally or creatively.
Feathers are generally a very beautiful and gentle feminine tattoo designs. A lot of girls choose peacock feather simply because it is more beautiful than other feathers, while only a small number associates the feather to the meaning of peacock tattoos. Feathers symbolize creativity, spiritual evaluation and rebirth.
Feather is one from them. Feather tattoos have different meaning. A feather tattoo present the meaning like loss, luck and birth. Normally feather tattoos are used to show freedom like a bird.Feather tattoos are the famous tattoo designs for both men and women.
idea ablaze/Flickr. Show your love of freedom and flight with a feather tattoo design. Colorful and bold, or simple and symbolic, feather tattoos have rich history and significance. Before you pick a feather, get to know the bird and its traits and you'll have a tattoo that's even more meaningful.
Feather tattoos are among the more common tattoo designs chosen by body art enthusiasts. A feather tattoo design can have any of a number of meanings, or be a purely aesthetic option--the only person who really knows the ultimate meaning of any design is the wearer. Meaning can also depend on the type of feather chosen--a peacock feather has different connotations than an eagle feather, for example.