From Google: Google Apps Sync for Microsoft Outlook is a plug-in for Outlook 2003 or 2007 that lets you keep using your familiar Outlook interface after switching from Microsoft Exchange Server to Google Apps.
The first time you open the Google Play Music app on a mobile device or computer, you can choose which account you want to use. After signing in to an account, music you've stored on your device, along with any music you've uploaded or purchased on Google Play using your account are added to your library.
On your phone, go to Settings/Accounts/[your Google account]. Make sure that Sync Music is checked (if it is not, then your music will never sync, even with the auto-sync). You can then press the menu button and select Sync now to manually sync your account. All your music should now be up-to-date.
Google Apps Sync for Microsoft Outlook® allows you to use Microsoft Outlook® 2003, 2007, 2010 and 2013 effectively with Google Apps. You get the cost savings, security and reliability of Google Apps, while employees can use the interface they prefer for email, contacts, calendar and notes.
To help ensure that your music library is up to date, here's how you can sync Google Play Music. 1  Go to your device's main Settings menu. 2  Under Accounts, select Google. 3  Select the account you use with Google Play Music. 4  Scroll down to Google Play Music and make sure the checkbox is checked.
On Android TV, the Google Play Music app will use the account associated with your device. Note: If you don't sign in to a Google Account, you'll only be able to listen to music you've copied to your device from a computer.
If your account doesn't show Sync Music in the list then you have to uninstall and reinstall the app. Go back to the account settings/accounts/[your Google account] and make sure you select Sync Music to sync with your Google account.
1 Scroll down to Google Play Music and make sure the checkbox is checked. 2  If you don't see Google Play Music listed, make sure you're signed in to Google Play Music using the same account. 3  Go to your device's main Settings menu. 4  Under Personal, select your account. 5  Select Sync Sync now.