A genetically modified (GM) food or genetically modified organism (GMO) results from the use of recombinant DNA biotechnological procedures that allow the genetic makeup of a food or organism to be altered in some way.
Manipulating the amount of fiber in the diet can serve as a therapy for several gastrointestinal conditions. A low-fiber diet is appropriate for some conditions, or temporarily, to reduce the amount of bulk in the stool and minimize discomfort from gas and bloating.
Read more about complications of coeliac disease. As a protein, gluten is not essential to your diet and can be replaced by other foods. Many gluten-free alternatives are widely available in supermarkets and health food shops, including pasta, pizza bases and bread. A range of gluten-free foods is also available on prescription.
Calorie-Modified Diets. Calorie-modified diets are advised to help a patient achieve a healthy body weight. In the case of obesity, a reduced-calorie diet is prescribed that may include low-calorie sugar substitutes, lean cuts of meat and use of fruits as a dessert.
A gluten-free diet. When you are first diagnosed with coeliac disease, you will be referred to a dietitian to help you adjust to your new diet without gluten. They can also ensure your diet is balanced and contains all the nutrients you need.
Rye, which is most often found in bread products. It is not typically used to make ingredients. Breaded or floured meat, poultry, seafood and vegetables, when the breading is made with wheat. Also meat, poultry and vegetables when they have a sauce or marinade that contains gluten, such as soy and teriyaki sauces.
For example, during a flare-up of diverticulosis, an inflammatory bowel condition, a low-fiber diet is advised. However, after the acute treatment, a gradual increase to a high-fiber diet is advised. Whole grains, fresh fruits and vegetables, and beans are great sources of fiber.
A genetically engineered (GE) organism is one where its DNA is modified using techniques that permit the direct transfer or removal of genes in that organism. Organisms that undergo genetic engineering are sometimes referred to as transgenic.