The North Island of New Zealand has a 'spine' of mountain ranges running through the middle, with gentle rolling farmland on both sides. The central North Island is dominated by the Volcanic Plateau, an active volcanic and thermal area. The massive Southern Alps form the backbone of the South Island. New Zealand’s Southern Alps have a number of glaciers, the largest being Tasman glacier, which you can view by taking a short walk from Mount Cook village. New Zealand’s most famous glaciers are the Franz Josef and Fox on the South Island’s West Coast.
The North Island's highest peak is Mt Ruapehu which is 2,797 metres or 9,175 feet high. This mountain is a volcano, and had some eruptions back in 1995 and 1996. Mt Ruapehu is also the location for the best skiing in the North Island. Most of New Zealand's ski fields are located in the South Island however. New Zealand has 24 peaks above 3000 metres.
Some of these summits are mere shoulders on the ridges of Aoraki and Mount Tasman. These are all the mountains over 2,400 m with a topographic prominence (drop) of at least 300 m (985 ft), closely matching those on the list of mountains of New Zealand by the New Zealand Alpine Club. Five peaks overlooked on that list are indicated with an asterisk. The 100 highest mountains [edit]. These are all the mountains over 2,400 m with a topographic prominence (drop) of at least 300 m (985 ft), closely matching those on the list of mountains of New Zealand by the New Zealand Alpine Club.
New Zealand's sacred mountains. At the heart of New Zealand’s central North Island is a vast volcanic plateau that is a region of many natural wonders. Content can be shared and edited. Please credit Tourism New Zealand. 1  Print.
Lake Te Anau is the largest lake on South Island. The Clutha River is that island's longest river, and like most rivers here, it originates in a Southern Alps glacial lake. The lowest point of New Zealand is South Pacific Ocean (0 m). 1  New Zealand Geography. 2  Geography and Landforms of Oceania. With Mount Maunganui guarding the entrance, and nearly 62 miles (100 km) of white sand, the Bay of Plenty is New Zealand's premier beach area. Large areas of temperate rain forests are found along the western shore of South Island, and across much of New Zealand's North Island.
Volcanic Mountains. As the name suggests, volcanic mountains are formed by volcanoes. Volcanic Mountains are formed when molten rock (magma) deep within the earth, erupts, and piles upon the surface. Magna is called lava when it breaks through the earth's crust. When the ash and lava cools, it builds a cone of rock. Fold mountains are the most common type of mountain. The world’s largest mountain ranges are fold mountains. These ranges were formed over millions of years. Fold mountains are formed when two plates collide head on, and their edges crumbled, much the same way as a piece of paper folds when pushed together.
New Zealand's most famous glaciers are the Franz Josef and Fox on the South Island's west coast. Gouged out by moving ice over thousands of years, these spectacular glaciers are easily accessible to mountaineers and hikers. Sunken Mountains. Mitre Peak overlooks one of the most beautiful parts of New Zealand--Milford Sound in Fiordland. Over thousands of years, the process of subduction has seen parts of the New Zealand landscape become submerged.
Lying in the south-west Pacific, New Zealand consists of two main islands--the North Island and the South Island. In addition, Stewart Island and many smaller islands lie offshore. The North Island has a 'spine' of mountain ranges running through the middle, with gentle rolling farmland on both sides. The central North Island is dominated by the Volcanic Plateau, an active volcanic and thermal area. The massive Southern Alps form the backbone of the South Island. Sunken Mountains. Mitre Peak overlooks one of the most beautiful parts of New Zealand--Milford Sound in Fiordland. Over thousands of years, the process of subduction has seen parts of the New Zealand landscape become submerged.
It's widely considered New Zealand's top travel destination. The mountains found on North Island are volcanic in nature, and many remain quite active. On the island's southwestern corner, Mount Taranaki (or Mt. Egmont) rises to 8,261 ft (2,518 m). With Mount Maunganui guarding the entrance, and nearly 62 miles (100 km) of white sand, the Bay of Plenty is New Zealand's premier beach area. Large areas of temperate rain forests are found along the western shore of South Island, and across much of New Zealand's North Island.