Stumpage Price Reports. The Stumpage Price Report is published semi-annually and reports the prices paid for standing timber during the previous six months. Prices are provided to the DEC voluntarily by buyers and sellers of standing timber. To better reflect the price variations across the state the Stumpage Price Report splits New York into four distinct regions; Western/Central, Adirondack, Delaware/Catskill, and Hudson/Mohawk.
A given stumpage rate, measured in $/volume, is then applied to the amount of timber to be harvested. The firm will then pay this price to the landowner. It is paid to the current owner of the land. Historically, the price was determined on a basis of the number of trees harvested, or “per stump”. Currently it is dictated by more standard measurements such as cubic metres, board feet, or tons.
The report: (1) provides a guide for private timber owners in determining stumpage prices regionally or stateside, (2) establishes annual stumpage price figures for severance tax purposes, and (3) determines the timber value for use-value assessment of forest land. Agency specific prices are available on the DNR website, in the annual Minnesota Public Stumpage Price Review. For recent timber stumpage prices, readers can go to the DNR website and view recent auction results.
Stumpage is the price a private firm pays for the right to harvest timber from a given land base. It is paid to the current owner of the land. Historically, the price was determined on a basis of the number of trees harvested, or “per stump”. Currently it is dictated by more standard measurements such as cubic metres, board feet, or tons.
Stumpage is the price a private firm pays for the right to harvest timber from a given land base. It is paid to the current owner of the land. Historically, the price was determined on a basis of the number of trees harvested, or “per stump”. 
Stumpage Price Reports. The purpose of the Stumpage Price Report is to summarize bid prices from historic state forest timber sales to provide DNR staff base information for determining a minimum acceptable bid for future timber sales. The Stumpage Price Reports are listed by fiscal year and then by quarter. 
The one consistent source of information on this subject is the Minnesot Public Stumpage Price Review and Price Index, published each year by DNR, Division of Forestry. Highlights for last year shown in the attached report: 1  Bid value of public agencies stumpage increased to $48.3 million, up $10.s6 million or 28.1%. 1 Bid value of public agencies stumpage increased to $48.3 million, up $10.s6 million or 28.1%. 2  Volume sold increased to 1.84 million cord equivalents, up 163,200 cords or 9.7%.
Stumpage price review and price index. The Public Stumpage Price report covers approximately 80 percent of all commercial timber sales issued by public agencies in Minnesota. It is the only continuously available, internally consistent data series of its type in the state. It includes a Public Stumpage Price Index that provides a uniform measure of stumpage price over time, and a means of comparing Minnesota stumpage price changes to inflation at the national level.
Stumpage Price Report. This series of reports, updated quarterly, summarizes bid prices from State Forest timber sales. The data in the Average Stumpage Price Report are is used to provide DNR staff base information for determining a minimum acceptable bid for future timber sales. A separate report lists bids for the individual sales, again from State Forest timber sales. The Bid Summary Reports can be viewed here. Agency specific prices are available on the DNR website, in the annual Minnesota Public Stumpage Price Review. For recent timber stumpage prices, readers can go to the DNR website and view recent auction results.
Glossary of Forestry Terms Used on the Stumpage Price Report. Board foot-a unit for measuring wood volume in a tree, log, or board. A board foot is commonly 1 foot by 1 foot by 1 inch, but any shape containing 144 cubic inches of wood equals one board foot. Prices are provided to the DEC voluntarily by buyers and sellers of standing timber. To better reflect the price variations across the state the Stumpage Price Report splits New York into four distinct regions; Western/Central, Adirondack, Delaware/Catskill, and Hudson/Mohawk.