The pituitary gland produces hormones that affect many other glands in the body. Most pituitary tumors are noncancerous (benign). However, because of the location of the pituitary gland, at the base of the skull, many pituitary tumors will press against the optic nerves, causing vision problems. 
The pituitary gland is sometimes called the master endocrine gland  because it makes hormones that affect the way many parts of the body work. It also controls hormones made by many other glands in the body. Pituitary tumors are divided into three groups: 1  Benign pituitary adenomas: Tumors that are not cancer. 2  These tumors grow very slowly and do not spread from the pituitary gland to other parts of the body.
1 A pituitary tumor is a growth of abnormal cells in the tissues of the pituitary gland. 2  The pituitary gland hormones control many other glands in the body. 3  Having certain genetic conditions increases the risk of developing a pituitary tumor. The pituitary gland hormones control many other glands in the body. Hormones made by the pituitary gland include: 1  Prolactin: A hormone that causes a woman’s breasts to make milk during and after pregnancy. 2  Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH): A hormone that causes the adrenal glands to make a hormone called cortisol.
Anterior pituitary. Most pituitary tumors begin in the larger, front part of the pituitary gland known as the anterior pituitary. This part of the gland makes several hormones that control other endocrine glands. 1  Growth hormone (GH, also known as somatotropin) promotes body growth during childhood. This provides a key link between the brain and the endocrine system, a collection of glands in the body that make hormones. Hormones are substances released into the blood that control how other organs work. The hypothalamus releases hormones into tiny blood vessels directly connected to the pituitary gland.
Overview. Pituitary tumors grow from the pituitary gland, the master gland of the body, located deep in the skull. These tumors can affect the whole body by interfering with normal hormone production. As the tumor grows, it can cause a variety of symptoms including compression of nearby nerves, resulting in vision problems. There are various kinds of pituitary tumors: adenomas, craniopharyngiomas, and Rathke’s cleft cysts. 
The pituitary gland is a tiny organ, the size of a pea, found at the base of the brain. As the “master gland” of the body, it produces many hormones that travel throughout the body, directing certain processes or stimulating (causing) other glands to produce other hormones. 1 Hyposecretion: Too little of any hormone in the body can be caused by a large pituitary tumor, which interferes with the pituitary gland’s ability to produce hormones. 2  Hyposecretion can also result from surgery or radiation of a tumor.
However, many of these tumors do not cause symptoms and are never diagnosed during the person's lifetime. The pituitary gland is a pea-sized endocrine gland located at the base of the brain. The pituitary helps control the release of hormones from other endocrine glands, such as the thyroid and adrenal glands. The pituitary also releases hormones that directly affect body tissues, such as bones and the breast's milk glands. These hormones include: 1  Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). 2  Growth hormone (GH)
1 Macroadenomas are tumors 1 cm across or larger. 2  Macroadenomas can affect a person’s health in 2 ways. 3  First, they can cause symptoms if they make too much of a certain hormone. 4  Second, they can cause symptoms by pressing on normal parts of the pituitary or on nearby nerves, such as the optic nerves. This provides a key link between the brain and the endocrine system, a collection of glands in the body that make hormones. Hormones are substances released into the blood that control how other organs work. The hypothalamus releases hormones into tiny blood vessels directly connected to the pituitary gland.