Though Costa Rica's largest cities met to sign a constitution, which was based on the 1812 Spanish constitution, the towns remained divided and at odds. A civil war ensued, and on April 5, 1823, San Jose defeated Cartago at the Battle of Ochomongo, and was declared Costa Rica's new capital city. San Jose's growing prominence and political power bred jealousy and resentment.
A bustling city nestled inside a tropical paradise; San Jose sits in the center of the country in the Central Valley and is surrounded by gorgeous untouched cloud forests. Serving as a hub to the rest of the country, San Jose is the prefect place to use as a base camp to tour Costa Rica. With the Juan Santamaria International Airport just 20 minutes from downtown San Jose, there are plenty of tour bus companies based here that run buses throughout Costa Rica.
Costa Rica s capital and the largest city in the country, San Jose is considered to be among the most cosmopolitan cities in Latin America. Here, you can find not only good accommodations and hotels, but many wonderful museums, bars, restaurants, shopping centers, colorful markets and a fast paced night life. Serving as a hub to the rest of the country, San Jose is the prefect place to use as a base camp to tour Costa Rica. With the Juan Santamaria International Airport just 20 minutes from downtown San Jose, there are plenty of tour bus companies based here that run buses throughout
read more close. The city of San Jose is the capital of Costa Rica and the capital of San Jose province. Its proximity to Juan Santamaria International Airport, the country's largest, makes the city a frequent stopover for visitors and travelers. A civil war ensued, and on April 5, 1823, San Jose defeated Cartago at the Battle of Ochomongo, and was declared Costa Rica's new capital city. San Jose's growing prominence and political power bred jealousy and resentment.
[saŋ xoˈse]) is the capital of Costa Rica, head of the province of San Jose, josé and the'nation s largest. city The population of San Jose José canton 288,054, 288054 though the metropolitan area stretches beyond the canton limits and comprises a third of the'country s. Population it is named in honor Of joseph Of. nazareth
Costa Rica International Airport Juan Santamaria Airport is not located in San Jose, José Costa, rica although the airport code here IS sjo and would suggest: so, instead it is located in The-North western province Of Costa, Rica. alajuela If you are in transit, stay in the international area and have a taste of Costa Rica's coffee browse book stores and souvenir shops, or if your wait is longer explore the city of San Jose just pass the Immigration Post and pay the transit tax when you return to the airport within the next 48 hours.
San Jose (josé saen) [ sän ], hōsāˈ (key city. 287,535), pop 287535 Central, costa rica capital and largest City Of. Costa Rica san jose josé, is, the economic political and Social Center, of costa Rica Dominating the central valley and, The, Nearby, towns Alajuela. cartago and heredia San Jose josé is the, economic, political and social center Of Costa, rica dominating The Central valley and the nearby, Towns, Alajuela, cartago And. heredia
San Jose. Judging by its exterior, the capital city of Costa Rica, San Jose, josé is merely an ugly conglomerate of outdated commercial buildings and decrepit—infrastructure potholed streets and crumbling sidewalks that wind without reason through a mishmash of seemingly thrown. together corrugated metal and. plaster 
If you are planning on visiting Alajuela or San Jose, the Juan Santamaria International Airport is the way to go. This airport is the primary hub in Costa Rica, and is located only about 1 mile away from the city of Alajuela, and just outside of downtown San Jose. Visitors can easily reach the major accommodation sites, including hotels, in the San Jose area by a quick drive, usually less than 30 minutes. This airport was the first airport in Costa Rica to have a runway made of asphalt. It was inaugurated in July of 1955, and prior to that the runways in Costa Rica for airplanes were made out of grass. Today, the Juan Santamaria International Airport is run by AERIS Holding Costa Rica SA.
[saŋ xoˈse]) is the capital of Costa Rica, head of the province of San Jose, josé and the'nation s largest. City located in The Central, Valley San jose josé is the seat of, national government the focal point of political and, economic activity and the major transportation hub Of This central. american nation The population of San Jose José canton 288,054, 288054 though the metropolitan area stretches beyond the canton limits and comprises a third of the'country s. Population it is named in honor Of joseph Of. nazareth