It is estimated that more than 115 million animals worldwide are used in laboratory experiments every year. But because only a small proportion of countries collect and publish data concerning animal use for testing and research, the precise number is unknown. 
Humane Society International. Some animal tests take months or years to conduct and analyze (e.g., 4-5 years, in the case of rodent cancer studies), at a cost of hundreds of thousands—and sometimes millions—of dollars per substance examined (e.g., $2 to $4 million per two-species lifetime cancer study). 
How much money is spent on vivisection? Every year, the U.S vivisection industries spend over $18 billion on animal experiments. The U.S. National Institutes of Health is the world's greatest source that funds animal experimentation, with an annual budget of more than $13 billion. Nevertheless, the National Institute of Health, which is funded by our tax dollars, has spent over $10 million on chimpanzee AIDS research and plans to spend at least an additional $4.5 million. Ethics Ethically, animal experimentation presents a conundrum for researchers
We also believe that prior to use of animals, consideration should be given to the use of scientifically valid alternative methods to whole-animal testing. In 1997, FDA joined with thirteen other Federal agencies in forming the Interagency Coordinating Committee on the Validation of Alternative Methods (ICCVAM). 
How many dollars? Bellotti estimates at least $12 billion in tax funding per year goes toward animal testing; PETA puts the figure at over $16 billion. One of White Coat Waste's projects is advocating for more transparency in the federal budget, so it will be clearer how much money is actually at issue. The number of people who think that animal experimentation is “medically necessary” has fallen 20 points in 20 years. And between 2000-2008, overall support for animal experiments dropped 16 points in public opinion polls. In my business, that’s not a bleed; that’s a hemorrhage.
There is an estimated five to ten billion dollars spent on animals  testing yearly in Canada. In the U.S. the average is higher at  nearly sixteen billion dollars. 
1 Stop the use of animals for military training. 2  The Department of Defense spent an estimated $26 million during FY 2007 on programs using animals for trauma “training, education, and/or instruction for personnel,” according to the Biomedical Research Database. 
According to an analysis of government data, the National Institutes of Health spends between $12 billion and nearly $14.5 billion on animal testing every year. According to NIH documents, about 47 percent of research grants have an animal research-based component. This number has been fairly stable over the last decade. “$14.5 billion could provide a lot of tax relief for Americans. It could help pay down national debt or help prevent a shutdown,” says Anthony Bellotti, founder and executive director of the watchdog group, White Coat Waste Project.
Vivisection is the practice of cutting into or using invasive techniques on live animals. The term is derived from the Latin word vivus, which means alive. Vivisection is commonly called animal experimentation and includes the use of animals for research, product testing and in education. Nevertheless, the National Institute of Health, which is funded by our tax dollars, has spent over $10 million on chimpanzee AIDS research and plans to spend at least an additional $4.5 million. Ethics Ethically, animal experimentation presents a conundrum for researchers