• CALDERA (noun). The noun CALDERA has 1 sense: 1. a large crater caused by the violent explosion of a volcano that collapses into a depression. Familiarity information: CALDERA used as a noun is very rare. 
Best Answer: A caldera is a type of volcano, associated with super volcanoes. Once it explodes, it leaves a large depression. Mt. St. Helens is an example of a caldera. They are the largest volcanos in diameter, approximately 100km wide, with pyroclastic flows. 
caldera-a large crater caused by the violent explosion of a volcano that collapses into a depression. crater, volcanic crater-a bowl-shaped geological formation at the top of a volcano. Translations. caldera. n. 1. (Physical Geography) a large basin-shaped crater at the top of a volcano, formed by the collapse or explosion of the cone. See cirque. [C19: from Spanish Caldera (literally: cauldron), name of a crater in the Canary Islands]. (kaelˈdɛr kælˈdɛr, ə-). kɔl., n. pl
Definition of CALDERA. : a volcanic crater that has a diameter many times that of the vent and is formed by collapse of the central part of a volcano or by explosions of extraordinary violence. See caldera defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
A caldera is a cauldron-like volcanic feature on large central volcanoes, a special sort of volcanic crater (from one to several kilometers in diameter), formed when a magma chamber was emptied. The depression then originated either in very big explosive eruptions or in erosion and collapse of the magma chamber roof. As the magma chamber empties, the center of the volcano within the ring fracture begins to collapse. The collapse may occur as the result of a single cataclysmic eruption, or it may occur in stages as the result of a series of eruptions.
Calderas are some of the most spectacular features on Earth. They are large volcanic craters that form by two different methods: 1) an explosive volcanic eruption; or, 2) collapse of surface rock into an empty magma chamber. The image at right is a satellite view of one of the most famous calderas-Crater Lake in Oregon. Centuries of rain and snow filled the caldera creating Crater Lake. With a depth of 1932 feet (589 meters), Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States and the seventh deepest lake in the world. Collapse calderas form when a large magma chamber is emptied by a volcanic eruption or by subsurface magma movement. The unsupported rock that forms the roof of the magma chamber then collapses to form a large crater. Crater Lake and many other calderas are thought to have formed by this process
Caldera. A caldera is a cauldron-like volcanic feature usually formed by the collapse of land following a volcanic eruption. They are sometimes confused with volcanic craters. The word comes from Spanish caldera, and this from Latin CALDARIA, meaning cooking pot. In some texts the English term cauldron is also used. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: caldera (Noun). A large crater formed by a volcanic explosion or by collapse of the cone of a volcano. Origin: From caldera, from caldaria.