The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta.
The skeletal system supports and protects the body while giving it shape and form. This system is composed of connective tissues including bone, cartilage, tendons, and ligaments. Nutrients are provided to this system through blood vessels that are contained within canals in bone. The skeletal system stores minerals, fats, and produces blood cells. Another major role of the skeletal system is to provide mobility. Tendons, bones, joints, ligaments and muscles work in concert to produce various movements
It shapes the body and protects organs. The skeletal system works with the muscular system to help the body move. Marrow, which is soft, fatty tissue that produces red blood cells, many white blood cells, and other immune system cells, is found inside bones. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta.
Two types of white blood cells called lymphocytes are vital to the specific immune response. Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow, and mature into one of several subtypes. The two most common are T cells and B cells. An antigen is a foreign material that triggers a response from T and B cells. The human body has B and T cells specific to millions of different antigens.
The liver and kidneys filter the blood. The bones produce most of the white blood cells. However, T and B lymphocytes are produced in the lymph nodes and spleen, and the T Cel … ls are also produced and mature in they Thymus Gland. The bone marrow is the part of the bone that produces the cells. 3 people found this useful. the part of your body that produces red blood cells is your marrow. the marrow is the sponge like tissue that is found in most of your bones. the area that the most red … blood cells are made is the hip. the hip has the most marrow. + 33 others
Skeletal System. Organs all the bones of the body (206), their associated cartilage, and the joints of the body. Functions bones support and protect the body assist in body movement house cells that produce blood cells, and they store minerals. Reproductive System. Organs Structures that produce, store, and transport reproductive cells (sperm and eggs). Testes, penis Uterus, ovaries, fallopian tubes Functions Produce eggs and sperm, in women, provides a site for the developing embryo-fetus.
A bone is a rigid organ that constitutes part of the vertebral skeleton. Bones support and protect the various organs of the body, produce red and white blood cells, store minerals and also enable mobility. Bone tissue is a type of dense connective tissue. In the human body at birth, there are over 270 bones, but many of these fuse together during development, leaving a total of 206 separate bones in the adult, not counting numerous small sesamoid bones. The largest bone in the body is the thigh-bone (femur) and the smallest is the stapes in the middle ear.
The primary function of the reproductive system is to produce male and female sex cells and to ensure the growth and development of offspring. The reproductive system is comprised of male and female reproductive organs and structures. The growth and activity of these organs and structures is regulated by hormones. Secondary organs aid in the growth and maturation of gametes and developing offspring. 1  Female Reproductive System. 2  Labia majora-Larger lip-like external structures that cover and protect sexual structures. 3  Labia minora-Smaller lip-like external structures found inside the labia majora.
If the bone marrow is not taken care of and is unable to produce the adequate amount of blood cells for the body, then the rest of the immune system will take a hit since it is the white blood cells and lymphocytes that provide the backbone of our immune system. It mainly contains numerous cells that are essential to supporting your immune system. These cells are white blood cells whose main purpose is to act as the defenders of your body against any possible bacteria or pathogen that might harm it. In these white blood cells you can find lymphocytes and macrophages.
The liver and kidneys filter the blood. The bones produce most of the white blood cells. However, T and B lymphocytes are produced in the lymph nodes and spleen, and the T Cel … ls are also produced and mature in they Thymus Gland. The bone marrow is the part of the bone that produces the cells. 3 people found this useful. 