You First need to have a Degree in Nursing so 1. 4 years of College. then you get your Masters Degree in Your Field of study for Nurse Pract. wheither it is ER, OB/GYN, PEDS, Etc... so that could take you 1-2 years. you can look at any college web site that offers this type of program and get that information.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a nurse practitioner. Get an overview of nurse practitioner educational requirements, licensure and job duties to see if this is the right career for you.
You can go to community college and become a Registered Nurse in two years with an Associates degree. Or you can go to a four-year university, o … r college, and receive a Bachelor's of Science in Nursing. You will also need clinical training and will be required to sit for the NCLEX.
To become a nurse practitioner you first need to become a registered nurse. That typically involves 4 years of education to receive your Bachelor's in Nursing. From there it's … recommended that you try to work a few years before going for your Master's.
1 To become a neonatal nurse practitioner (NNP), you will also need a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree. 2  Many neonatal nursing schools offer this degree through a two-year Advanced Practice Neonatal Nursing (APNN) program.
Minimum degree you'll need to practice: You must be a registered nurse with a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) . Certification: You must become certified by your State Board of Nursing or receive a national certification from an agency such as the National Certification Corporation.
^ m d. Every state and the District of Columbia has a board of nursing with a mission of protecting the public from harm. Governance of the practice of nursing includes: There is more than one educational pathway leading to eligibility to take the standardized National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX)-RN.
A: To become a midwife with a teaching degree, you need to opt for a proper Associate's program in Midwifery. It will be a two years program and if you already have teaching experience in early childhood education, then it can be a plus. The degree can be completed online at a much faster pace as well.