The first modern multi-sport event organised were the Olympic Games, organised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) (est. 1894) for the first time in 1896 in Athens, Greece. After some celebrations (1900, 1904), the Olympics became very popular nowadays. In the 1920s, all kinds of other multi-sport events were set up. These were usually directed for a selected group of athletes, rather than everybody, which was — basically — the case with the Olympic Games.
Hot Career Spotlight – Sports Event Management. Managing a sporting event is a huge, complicated undertaking, and the training you can get in sports management degree programs can prepare you to manage everything from college soccer games to the Superbowl. Going to conventions is a great way to network and get your name in the right peoples’ ears. There is an annual event called the International Sports Event Management Conference where you can meet professionals in the field and make connections that could lead directly to a better job in the future.
A multi-sport event is an organized sporting event, often held over multiple days, featuring competition in many different sports between organized teams of athletes from (mostly) nation-states. The first major, modern, multi-sport event of international significance was the modern Olympic Games. In the 1920s, all kinds of other multi-sport events were set up. These were usually directed for a selected group of athletes, rather than everybody, which was — basically — the case with the
Sport and Event Management. The Sport and Event Management major prepares students to plan, manage, and sustain effective, sport and recreation experiences in private, public, and commercial settings. The Sport and Event Management Department hosted a May 7 event to present projects students have worked on throughout the spring 2015 semester.
The Paralympic Games is the largest multi-sport event involving athletes with physical disabilities, and is organised by the International Paralympic Committee (IPC). Arranged for the first time in 1960 in Rome, Italy. The number of sports, initially only a few, is still growing. In the 1920s, all kinds of other multi-sport events were set up. These were usually directed for a selected group of athletes, rather than everybody, which was — basically — the case with the Olympic Games.
sport. n. 1. a. An activity involving physical exertion and skill that is governed by a set of rules or customs and often undertaken competitively. 6. derisive mockery or the object of such mockery: to make sport of someone. 7. someone or something that is controlled by external influences: the sport of fate. 8. (sometimes qualified by: good, bad, etc) a person who reacts cheerfully in the face of adversity, esp a good loser.
Olympic Games are a major international event and one of the greatest sport events featuring summer and winter sports in which thousands of athletes participate in a variety of competitions. The Olympic Games are considered to be the world’s foremost sports competition with more than 200 nations participating. 
Multi-sports events for non-Olympic sports. 1  World Games, held first in 1981, stage many sports (though not all) that are not Olympic sports. 2  The World Games is therefore sometimes also unofficially called Olympics for non-Olympic sports. In the 1920s, all kinds of other multi-sport events were set up. These were usually directed for a selected group of athletes, rather than everybody, which was — basically — the case with the Olympic Games.
Records of performance are often kept, and for popular sports, this information may be widely announced or reported in sport news. Sport is also a major source of entertainment for non-participants, with spectator sport drawing large crowds to sport venues, and reaching wider audiences through broadcasting. Sports betting is in some cases severely regulated, and in some cases is central to the sport. Usually the contest or game is between two sides, each attempting to exceed the other. Some sports allow a tie game; others provide tie-breaking methods, to ensure one winner and one loser. A number of such two-sided contests may be arranged in a tournament producing a champion.
If sports event management is the job of your dreams, a business degree in sports management or athletic administration is the best educational path for you. Going to conventions is a great way to network and get your name in the right peoples’ ears. There is an annual event called the International Sports Event Management Conference where you can meet professionals in the field and make connections that could lead directly to a better job in the future.