direct report Explanation: It's the opposite. If I say that I have three direct reports, I mean that there are three people who report to me, I'm their manager. If X reports to Y, X is Y's direct report, and Y is X's manager. it's the other way around-a report is placed under you Explanation: However, Newly assigned Financing Manager XXXX report***s*** to Financing Director YYYY. Yes, YYYY is XXX's superior. THat is, XXX is a direct report of YYYY. For instance, when I was a manager at JP Morgan, I had 7 direct reports. That is, 7 employees reported to me. I was my Managing Director's direct report. In other words, I reported to the Managing Directo
Save. In simple terms, a direct report is an employee who is managed by and reports to someone else immediately up the chain of command in the organizational structure. Thus, you can use the silly phrase the direct report reports directly to define the term. Effectively managing direct reports requires each person on the team to know her role and responsibilities in meeting the overall objectives of the company. To accomplish this, open and direct communication is a necessity, as is making sure each employee feel valued.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
direct report noun [C]. › an ​employee whose ​position at ​work is directly below that of another ​person, and who is ​managed by that ​person: She has a ​dozen ​direct ​reports, but ​manages many more ​people. 
For example, a simple hierarchy for a small retail business could consist of the owner, general manager, and sales associates. In this structure, the sales associates are the general manager's direct reports, while the general manager reports to the owner. Effectively managing direct reports requires each person on the team to know her role and responsibilities in meeting the overall objectives of the company. To accomplish this, open and direct communication is a necessity, as is making sure each employee feel valued.
CONFRONTING DIRECT REPORTS. Definition: Deals with problem direct reports firmly and in a timely manner; doesn’t allow problems to fester; regularly reviews performance and holds timely discussions; can make negative decisions when all other efforts fail; deals effectively with troublemakers. SITUATIONAL QUESTIONS. 
Not a trick question at all. The number of direct reports and overall reports plays a role in how a person is compensated. If Pontiphex is right, that's a wide range that can have serious implications when it comes to salary, etc. 
English term or phrase: direct report. English translation: a subordinate in corporate hierarchy who reports to his/her immediate boss. Entered by: Steffen Walter. Options:- Contribute to this entry-Include in personal glossary. 22:19 Jan 31, 2005. English to English translations [PRO] Bus/Financial-Human Resources. it's the other way around-a report is placed under you Explanation: However, Newly assigned Financing Manager XXXX report***s*** to Financing Director YYYY. Yes, YYYY is XXX's superior. THat is, XXX is a direct report of YYYY. For instance, when I was a manager at JP Morgan, I had 7 direct reports. That is, 7 employees reported to me. I was my Managing Director's direct report. In other words, I reported to the Managing Director
by Colin McIntosh, The Cambridge English Dictionary is constantly being updated and expanded to reflect the interests of our users. One area of particular interest to our users is that of English Language Teaching (ELT), and a number of ELT terms have recently been added to the dictionary. We’ve added some of the words that learners of English might.