If you have type 1 diabetes, you have to take daily insulin shots. If you have type 2 diabetes you have more of a choice. More than any other disease, people with diabetes have to take responsibility for their own care. You have it in your power to keep blood sugar levels from going too low or too high. When blood sugar levels drop too low you can become nervous, shaky, and confused—if you don't pass out entirely.
Doing the diabetes cure protocol you will be able to measure how well your blood sugar is doing to the point you can throw away ALL your drugs finally and… forever. Junk Food Problem – generations of miseducated people have no knowledge about what real food is. Of course you do all the other protocols in the Cure Manual and all type 2 diabetes should be corrected in 1 month. Learn these new health habits, stay away from grains, bad fats, polluted processed products and you will be cured of diabetes PERMANENTLY. This is where the truth leads to curing diabete
About 48 percent use oral medicine, and 40 percent use insulin, sometimes together with oral medicine. Testing is the basic strategy. The key to controlling diabetes for all of these types is blood testing. This means using a blood glucose meter to check how much sugar is in your blood. More than any other disease, people with diabetes have to take responsibility for their own care. You have it in your power to keep blood sugar levels from going too low or too high. When blood sugar levels drop too low you can become nervous, shaky, and confused—if you don't pass out entirely.
Type 2. Diabetes is a problem with your body that causes blood glucose (sugar) levels to rise higher than normal. This is also called hyperglycemia. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form of diabetes. If you have type 2 diabetes your body does not use insulin properly. This is called insulin resistance. At first, your pancreas makes extra insulin to make up for it. But, over time it isn't able to keep up and can't make enough insulin to keep your blood glucose at normal levels.
I’ll let you answer that question…. For a guaranteed way to reverse, cure or control type 2 diabetes, you need to check out my Master Your Diabetes Program. In Master Your Diabetes, you’ll learn how to get your blood sugar perfect, even if it’s in the 400’s. Click here to master your diabetes now…. Imagine this. You haven’t been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes yet. The morning of your physical exam with your physician, you decide to check your blood sugar just for fun. Maybe you had a blood glucose meter hanging around somewhere for a family member. You test your blood sugar and to your surprise it’s 212.
Diabetes Cure. A cure for diabetes is proving elusive. Cures for both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes have not yet been discovered, but progress is being made to prospectively cure type 1 diabetes in this generation. As studies continue, the root causes and mechanism behind both forms of the disease are becoming more clearly understood all the time. 
How to cure diabetes without medicine is relatively easy if you are vigilant about the management of your diabetes. It is important to make sure that you do not take it upon yourself to give up your medication without the consultation of your doctor first. 
With all the research on diabetes and advances in diabetes treatments, it's tempting to think someone has surely found a diabetes cure by now. But the reality is that there is no cure for diabetes -- neither type 1 diabetes nor type 2 diabetes. Even though there's no diabetes cure, diabetes can be treated and controlled, and some people may go into remission. To manage diabetes effectively, you need to do the following: Manage your blood sugar levels.