Unit Price. The Unit Price (or unit cost) tells you the cost per liter, per kilogram, per pound, etc, of what you want to buy. Just divide the cost by the quantity: Example: 2 liters for $3.80 is $3.80/2 liters = $1.90 per liter. So the lowest Unit Price (and the best bargain) is 1.5 liters at $2.70. Of course it doesn't tell you the quality of what you are buying, but it can help you make a decision. If something is sold in number of items (for example 10 pencils) then the same method can be used: Example: What is best
A rate is a special ratio in which the two terms are in different units. For example, if a 12-ounce can of corn costs 69, the rate is 69 for 12 ounces. The first term of the ratio is measured in cents; the second term in ounces. You can write this rate as 69 /12 ounces or 69 :12 ounces. 
The cost per unit is commonly derived when a company produces a large number of identical products. The cost is derived from the variable costs and fixed costs incurred by a production process, divided by the number of units produced. Thus, the cost per unit is not constant. For example, ABC Company has total variable costs of $50,000 and total fixed costs of $30,000 in May, which it incurred while producing 10,000 widgets. The cost per unit is: ($30,000 Fixed costs + $50,000 variable costs) / 10,000 units = $8 cost per unit.
The unit cost is the cost incurred by a company to produce, store and sell one unit of a particular product. 
The cost incurred by a company to produce, store and sell one unit of a particular product. Unit costs include all fixed costs (i.e. plant and equipment) and all variable costs (labor, materials, etc.) involved in production. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Unit Cost'. Unit cost is an important metric to look at when evaluating a unit grower stock, or a stock that chiefly produces items that have a low fixed cost. Generally, the larger a company grows, the lower the unit cost it can achieve through economies of scale. RELATED TERMS
In cost accounting, unit of product or service for which cost is computed. Cost units are selected to allow for comparison between actual cost and standard cost, or between different actual costs. 
Unit price is the cost of one unit of measure of an item. Unit price is often used in a grocery store to compare the price of two or more brands of the same item. Ex 1: If Brand X costs $3.99 for 32 oz, let's figure out the unit cost of Brand X (the cost of 1 oz). It's easy!!! Divide $3.99 by 32 and round to the nearest tenth (the cost goes inside the division box)
In retail, unit price is the price for a single unit of measure of a product sold in more or less than the single unit. The unit price tells you the cost per pound, quart, or other unit of weight or volume of a food package. It is usually posted on the shelf below the food. The shelf tag shows the total price (item price) and price per unit (unit price) for the food item