The lesions of actinic keratosis will commence as a spot of increased vascularity and the facade of the skin will become rough and coarse. The primary key to visual diagnosis of actinic keratosis early lesions is the texture of the skin of an individual. Preventing exposure to the sun is idyllic for individuals with actinic keratosis, even if actinic keratoses are in remission. Generally, cryotherapy treatment is applied for superficial lesions. Individuals suffering from actinic keratosis can also use acid peels and sun screens.
Actinic keratosis is a type of keratosis condition that produces precancerous lesions that increase with age and is usually resulting from radiation of the sun. People with light complexion are more susceptible to developing actinic keratoses than those with darker complexion. Preventing exposure to the sun is idyllic for individuals with actinic keratosis, even if actinic keratoses are in remission. Generally, cryotherapy treatment is applied for superficial lesions. Individuals suffering from actinic keratosis can also use acid peels and sun screens.
Actinic (solar) keratosis is the most common type of pre-cancer and results from chronic, cumulative sun exposure. Actinic keratosis looks like a scaly patch of dry skin, either flesh-colored or pink, which occurs on sun-exposed areas such as the head and neck, arms, chest and legs. Actinic keratoses should be treated early, as they can lead to squamous cell carcinoma. 
Actinic keratosis is formed of abnormal cells which are confined to the top layer of the skin (epidermis). Actinic keratoses usually develop in skin areas that are exposed to sun such as face, scalp, ears, arms, and hands. They are red, scaly areas which feel rough to the touch. Actinic keratosis often occurs in people: People with dark skin rarely get actinic keratosis. The prevalence of actinic keratosis in a study in Australia estimated that 40 to 50 % of the population 40 years and older is affected. So if you discover an area of your skin that is red and scaly and you are not sure what it may be go and see a dermatologist because actinic keratosis may look harmless and may not hurt but it is a serious condition which needs to be treated.
in Blog. Keratosis a condition that has affected many people in the world and it is everyone’s concern to know what it looks like. This is a skin disorder that affects various parts of the body. It has different signs and symptoms. What does Keratosis look like is a question many people ask themselves. Different types of Keratosis can be identified depending on the signs and symptoms that they represent on the surface of the skin.
A. An actinic keratosis, also known as a solar keratosis, is a small, rough spot occurring on skin that has been chronically exposed to the sun. Actinic keratoses generally measure in size between two to six millimeters in diameter (between the size of a pencil point and that of an eraser). Specialized forms of actinic keratoses include cutaneous horns, in which the skin protrudes in a thick, hornlike manner, and actinic cheilitis, which refers to scaling and roughness of the lower lip and blurring of the border of the lip and adjacent skin. This answer should not be considered medical advice...
Understanding Actinic Keratosis. Actinic keratoses (AKs) are small, red, rough, scaly, flat spots that feel like dry skin patches. They often occur on sun-exposed areas, such as the nose, ears, face, chest, forearms, and back of the hands. Actinic keratosis is also referred to as a solar keratosis. Specialized forms of actinic keratoses include cutaneous horns, in which the skin protrudes in a thick, hornlike manner, and actinic cheilitis, a scaling and roughness of the lower lip and blurring of the border of the lip and adjacent skin.