Meaning of Callum. Irish name. In Irish, the name Callum means-dove. Other origins for the name Callum include-Irish, Scottish, Gaelic.The name Callum is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-dove. Origin-Ireland. Alternate Origins-Scottish Gaelic
Callum /cal-lum/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name means dove. Callum is a version of Calum (Scottish, Gaelic, Latin): transcription of Columba. Callum is also a form of Colum (Irish, Gaelic). See also Cal. Shown below is the baby name popularity of Callum for boys. Callum was first listed in 2008 and reached its apex position of #729 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014).
Etymology & Historical Origin-Callum. Callum is a variant spelling of Calum both of which are Scottish masculine names. Essentially Callum is the Scottish Gaelic equivalent to Columba in reference to Saint Columba, a 6th century Irish missionary who is credited with converting Scotland to Christianity. Basically, he is to Scotland what St. Patrick is to Ireland. Saint Columba is also regarded as one of the Twelve Apostles of Ireland and remains an important figure among the Irish and the Scottish Gaels. Columba is a Latin name meaning dove.
Callum might also be spelled Calum; in Ireland, the name became Colm, and in Scotland it's sometimes used as a pet form of Malcolm. Callum was popular among early Christians because the dove was a symbol of purity, peace and the Holy Spirit. St. Columba was one of the most influential of the early Celtic saints. 
Callum is an uncommonly occurring given name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#41130 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Callum for boys. Callum was first listed in 2008 and reached its apex position of #729 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014). Popular alternative forms of Callum (#729 last year) are Colm, Calum and Cal
Borrowed from the Scottish, Calum is a Gaelic form of the Latin Columba (dove). Var: Callum, Kallum. Short: Cal, Kal. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Calum: | Edit. My older brother's name is Calum but he goes by Cal. A lot of people tend to mispronounce his name as Cale-um as in Caleb. My parents liked the name Cal but didn't like Calvin so my mom found this name in a book she was reading and like it so they used it.
Borrowed from the Scottish, Calum is a Gaelic form of the Latin Columba (dove). Var: Callum, Kallum. Short: Cal, Kal. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Callum: | Edit. I am Scottish but live in Florida and have a little boy named callum. The ONLY pronunciation of this name is kal-um. This is the proper pronunciation and any other way is wrong.
The name Callum is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Callum is: Dove. Can also be a 'Servant/disciple of Columba'. Irish Meaning: The name Callum is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Callum is: a Latin name meaning dove. Scottish Meaning: The name Callum is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Callum is: Bald dov
Callum is a male given name and surname of Gaelic origin meaning Dove. It may be also spelled Calumn, Calum or Colum. Callum is a popular boy's name especially in Scotland where it was the 24th most popular boys name in 2012.
Calum /ca-lum/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KAL-um. It is of Scottish, Gaelic and Latin origin, and the meaning of Calum is dove. Variant of Columba. This was popular among early Christians because the dove was a symbol of gentleness, purity, peace, and the Holy Spirit. Prominent alternative forms of Calum ranked in the Top 1000 are Callum (#729 a year ago) , Colm, Malcolm (#442) and Malcom. Usage of these boy names reached its peak in 1992 (usage of 0.2054%) and is almost as widespread today (usage 0.1658%, ▼ 19.3%), but with the versions Malcolm and Malcom becoming less trendy.