Now let’s throw in coconut oil into our comparisons. Coconut oil is the edible oil extracted from the meat of the coconut. There’s not much as far as taste compared to the butter or canned milk. It acts more consistent with a typical oil and can be used in place of cooking oil in recipes. 
The F.A.Q. on Coconut Oil. Coconut oil is an extract made from coconut milk. However, there's a big difference between plain coconut oil and virgin coconut oil. How the oil is extracted and processed is the main factor in the type of coconut oil you'll ultimately have. Below we'll look at the 2 basic types of coconut oil and their differences.
Fatty oils include liquid, semisolid and solid products of vegetable and animal origin. They are also known as sweet oils. Coconut oil is of vegetable origin and is obtained from the copra of the coconut palm. It has the consistency of fat and is therefore also known as coconut butter. It is a white to slightly yellowish oil, with a pleasant odor when fresh but a rancid odor when old. Fresh coconut oil has a pleasant taste. 
Depending on what the recipe is for, coconut oil can be used in either solid or melted form and is generally used for cooking. Coconut oil can be used in both cooking and baking, with both sweet and savory foods. Use it to saute sauté greens and other, vegetables drizzle it over, popcorn or bake with. it It has a mellow, sweet, nutty flavor that sticks around even after cooking. The consistency of coconut oil varies depending on temperature. At room temperature, coconut oil is typically solid and semi-soft, although if you live in a hot climate it will likely be softer or even melted.
To substitute for shortening, I use a combination 1/2 butter and 1/2 coconut oil. (Actually the amount of coconut oil can be reduced by about 25%, so in a recipe calling for 1 cup of shortening I would use 1/2 cup butter and 3/8 cup of coconut oil. If you want to use all coconut oil 3/4 cup of coconut oil should work as a substitute for 1 cup of shortening.).
When the temperature is above 75 degrees, coconut oil will become liquid. When the temperature is below 75 degrees, coconut oil turns solid. This change in consistency does not affect the quality of the oil in any way. By the way, the tell tale sign of a high quality coconut oil is one that melts quickly and easily. by Jeff. (Ohio). I heard about the benifits of coconut oil before finding your site, but was wondering if it should be liquid or solid. All the oil I see in the stores is sort of paste like solid that melts very easy but would be difficult to take a tablespoon full for health reasons.
Coconuts contain milk to drink, meat to eat and can even produce oil. The consistency of coconut oil will depend on the ambient room temperature. If the room temperature is lower than 77 to 79 degrees Fahrenheit, coconut oil will remain in its white solid state. Virgin Coconut Oil. The processing method used to produce extra virgin coconut oil helps to preserve the nutritional value, purity and clarity of the coconut oil. Other methods used to produce coconut oil commonly add perfumes, heat and flavoring agents in an attempt to give the oil a longer shelf life.
0 items. Coconut butter is a spread made from the meat of the coconut much in the same way peanuts are used to make peanut butter. Just like peanut butter, it can be enjoyed with your favorite fruit, combined into smoothies, blended into coffee, or devoured by the spoonful straight from the jar (our favorite way)! 
This type of coconut oil can only be made from fresh coconut meat (non-copra). Chemicals, solvents and high heat shouldn't be used in the processing steps. Two popular methods for making 'virgin' oil are: Fresh coconut meat is quickly dried with minimal heat and the oil pressed out. However, there's a big difference between plain coconut oil and virgin coconut oil. How the oil is extracted and processed is the main factor in the type of coconut oil you'll ultimately have. Below we'll look at the 2 basic types of coconut oil and their differences.
Coconut milk is the liquid that comes from the grated meat of a brown coconut. It should not be confused with coconut water. The color and rich taste of coconut milk can be attributed to the high oil content. Most of the fat is saturated fat. Coconut milk is a very popular food ingredient used in Southeast Asia, South Asia, Southern China, the Caribbean and north of South America.