The three types of RNA are: mRNA (messenger RNA) - carries genetic information from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. tRNA (transfer RNA) - brings amino acids to ribosomes during protein synthesis. rRNA (ribosomal RNA) - guides the translation of mRNA into a protein. Messenger RNA (mRNA) consists of RNA nucleotides in the form of single uncoiled chain. mRNA carries genetic information from the DNA in the nucleus to the cytosol of a eukayot … ic cell.
mRNA: Carries the genetic information from DNA to ribosome to be translated. tRNA: Carries the anticodon and amino acid to the ribosome. rRNA: Component of ribosome, assists … in protein synthesis. Those are the three main types of RNA. There are other lesser known types as well. Messenger RNA (mRNA) consists of RNA nucleotides in the form of single uncoiled chain. mRNA carries genetic information from the DNA in the nucleus to the cytosol of a eukayot … ic cell.
· just now. Report Abuse. There are three main types of RNA: 1. mRNA or messenger RNA is the RNA produced by the transcription of DNA leading and lagging strands by DNA polymerase. mRNA is then translated into proteins by ribosomes. The genetic code is read from a type of RNA called messenger RNA (mRNA). Each nucleotide triplet, called a codon, can be read and translated into an amino acid to be incorporated into a protein being synthesized.
Share to: The three RNA types are:Messenger RNA (mRNA) - an intermediate nucleic acid that translates into a protein.Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) - RNA that forms ribosomes.Transfer RNA (tRNA) … - bring amino acids from the cytoplasm to a ribosome to help make the protein. + 7 others found this useful. Andreas Gudmundsson.
RNA-A polymer of ribonucleotides, is a single stranded structure. There are three major types of RNA-m RNA,t RNA and r RNA. Besides that there are small nuclear,micro RNAs, small interfering and heterogeneous RNAs. Each of them has a specific structure and performs a specific function. 
The three RNA types are:Messenger RNA (mRNA) - an intermediate nucleic acid that translates into a protein.Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) - RNA that forms ribosomes.Transfer RNA (tRNA) … - bring amino acids from the cytoplasm to a ribosome to help make the protein. Messenger RNA (mRNA) consists of RNA nucleotides in the form of single uncoiled chain. mRNA carries genetic information from the DNA in the nucleus to the cytosol of a eukayot … ic cell.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: My research tells me there are 4 types of RNA... tRNA is the information adapter molecule. It is the direct interface between amino-acid sequence of a protein and the information in DNA Messenger or mRNA is a copy of the information carried by a gene on the DNA. 
One common homework and test question asks you to name the three types of RNA and list their functions. Here's the answer. Answer: There are actually several types of ribonucleic acid or RNA, but most RNA falls into one of three categories: 1  mRNA or Messenger RNA. 2  mRNA transcribes the genetic code from DNA into a form that can be read and used to make proteins. 3  rRNA or Ribosomal RNA. 4  rRNA is located in the cytoplasm of a cell, where ribosomes are found. 5  tRNA or 6  .... Lik 
The three universal types of RNA include transfer RNA (tRNA), messenger RNA (mRNA), and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). Messenger RNA acts to carry genetic sequence information between DNA and ribosomes, directing protein synthesis. Ribosomal RNA is a major component of the ribosome, and catalyzes peptide bond formation. 