You can either apply in person or you can fill out the online Starbucks job application in this site. After submitting your application you should expect to hear back from someone within a week and if they like what they see from your resume, it’s off to the interview.
Starbucks Application – Starbucks Employment. Filling out a Starbucks online application is a great way to start your new career. Starbucks has a great reputation in the industry for taking care of their employees and offering plenty of benefits. They will also give you plenty of room to expand your career if you do well in the position where you are hired.
To start filling out your Starbucks job application go to the official Starbucks corporate page and scroll to the bottom to find the career center. Here you can pick a roll from the menu such as barista, assistant manager, store manager and others.
For barista and shift supervisor roles, when applying you are asked to select a store location, which identifies your preferred store of interest. You can then select up to 4 additional preferred locations. The store locations you select will have exclusive visibility to your application for 7 days.
For barista and shift supervisor, you can apply for both positions to a maximum of five store locations for each position. While we continually accept applications for positions in our retail stores, some locations may not currently have openings. Your application will be active for 60 days.
Apply Online. To apply directly through Starbucks, head over to their corporate career site at http://www.starbucks.com/career-center and fill out an online job application. You can apply to up to five stores at the same time when you submit a job application online.
for barista and shift supervisor roles when applying you are asked to select a store location which identifies your preferred store of interest you can then select up to 4 additional preferred locations the store locations you select will have exclusive visibility to your application for 7 days