If you need to install the Windows 7 operating system but you still can't find your Windows 7 product key, even with a product key finder, you have two choices. You can either: 1  Request a replacement product key from Microsoft, which should cost you around $10 USD. 
Now you can easily activate Office 2010 by given below MS Office 2010 Product Keys. If you are using MS Office as part of company or organization then you should activate it by providing genuine product key. It’s pretty difficult to find out working product key on internet. 
Other ways to find your product key. There are other ways to find your product key, depending on how you purchased the product. If you downloaded your product from Norton Online Store, the product key, or the instruction to obtain the product key is in your confirmation email message.
Product key on a Proof of License Certificate of Authenticity for Windows Vista Home Premium. A product key, also known as a software key, is a specific software-based key for a computer program. It certifies that the copy of the program is original. 
Microsoft product keys are often located on a product key sticker, an example of which you can see on this page. In most versions of Windows and other Microsoft software, product keys are 25-characters in length and contain both letters and numbers. Since product keys are required during installation, finding that you've lost a product key could be a serious problem if you need to reinstall a program. The unique product key entered for an operating system or a software program is typically stored in an encrypted format in the Windows Registry, at least in Windows.
CD-KEY. Alternatively referred to as an activation code, Product Key, product id, registration key, and serial key, a CD-KEY is a group of numbers or letters that helps prevent software piracy. Software that requires a CD-KEY cannot be installed onto a computer until a valid number is entered. Above is an example of the Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition Product Key that can be found on the side or bottom of an OEM computer
The product key is a usually unique, alphanumeric code of any length required by many software programs during installation. Product keys are also sometimes called CD keys, key codes, product codes, or installation keys. Most software, including some operating systems and programs from most popular software makers, require product keys. Since product keys are required during installation, finding that you've lost a product key could be a serious problem if you need to reinstall a program. The unique product key entered for an operating system or a software program is typically stored in an encrypted format in the Windows Registry, at least in Windows.
Product KeyFinder. The Magical Jelly Bean Keyfinder is a freeware utility that retrieves your Product Key (cd key) used to install windows from your registry. 
An Office product key uses a combination of 25 letters and numbers, and looks like this: XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX. You don’t have to enter the dashes. Choose an option below to learn if you need a product key, and if so, where you can find it. 