The plague is a serious bacterial infection that can be deadly. Sometimes referred to as the black plague, the disease is caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. This bacteria is found on animals throughout the world and is usually transmitted to humans through fleas. 
The bacteria that are the causes of bubonic plague are typically transmitted through the bite of an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, Yersinia pestis bacteria on a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by an infected person can enter through an opening in your skin. Causes of Bubonic Plague: Yersinia Pestis. Yersinia pestis bacteria are usually only found in certain parts of the world, such as Africa, Asia, and South America.
The bubonic plague causes are bacteria called Yersinia pestis. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague) . Bubonic Plague Causes: Yersinia Pestis. Yersinia pestis are Gram-negative bacteria found in certain parts of the world, primarily Africa, Asia, and South America.
Once infected, bubonic plague causes such symptoms as headaches, fever, and swollen, tender lymph glands. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague) . Bubonic Plague Causes: Yersinia Pestis. Yersinia pestis are Gram-negative bacteria found in certain parts of the world, primarily Africa, Asia, and South America.
Overview. Plague is an infectious disease caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. These bacteria are found mainly in rodents, particularly rats, and in the fleas that feed on them. Other animals and humans usually contract the bacteria from rodent or flea bites. Historically, plague destroyed entire civilizations. Usually, you get bubonic plague from the bite of an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, Y. pestis bacteria, from a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by a person with plague, enter the body through an opening in the skin.
Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting. Swollen and painful lymph nodes occur in the area closest to where the bacteria entered the skin. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes
Plague Disease Causes. The bacteria (Yersinia pestis) that cause plague can be transmitted from a host such as a rat to a human through the bite of an animal or insect (such as a flea). These bites transport the disease. 1 Types of plague: 2  Bubonic plague: The bacteria that cause plague can thrive and grow in the flea's esophagus. 3  This crowding of bacterial growth prevents food from entering the flea's stomach. 4  To overcome starvation, the flea begins a blood-sucking rampage.
1 Plague is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria known as Yersinia pestis. 2  Plague has a high fatality rate and has been described for centuries. 3  In the Middle Ages, plague was known as the Black Death and caused the death of 60% of the population of Europe. 1 In the Middle Ages, plague was known as the Black Death and caused the death of 60% of the population of Europe. 2  Transmission occurs via fleas that feed on infected animals, typically wild rodents. 3  There are three forms of plague in humans: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague.