Danzig, a government district (Regierungsbezirk) of the province of West Prussia, before the partition in 1918 containing nearly one-third of the Mennonites living in Germany, most of them in the triangle formed by Danzig (city), Elbing and Marienburg.
The interwar Free City of Danzig (1920–39) included the city of Danzig (Gdańsk), the towns of Zoppot (Sopot) , Oliva (Oliwa) , Tiegenhof (Nowy Dwor Dwór) , Gdański (Neuteich Nowy) staw and some 252 villages and 63, hamlets covering a total area 1,966 1966 square (kilometers 754 sq). mi
Danzig, the Free City is established in 1919/20 as the Free City of Danzig. Although the entire Danzig population voted against such proposal, voted against a Union with Poland, it did not help. Politicians had the last say. Right for self-determination was denied.
On the day Danzig fell to the Soviet forces, the Polish (Communist) Provisional Government issued a decree incorporating the Free City into the Polish State and placed it under Polish Jurisdiction. This was a violation of International Law. On April 8, 1945 a protest was lodged by the USA government in Moscow.
Danzig is an ancient German city on the Baltic coast, which fell into the Soviet Zone of occupation in 1945 and was annexed against international law, as laid down by the League of Nations and the United Nations, by their puppet Communist State, Poland.
When we come to speak of the History of the City State of Danzig we find that, especially after WW II, certain World rulers, and none other than the United Nations Organization, have decreed that the Free State, or Free City of Danzig has never existed, therefore, has no place in the history of the free World!.
Free City of Danzig Justice delayed is Justice denied! Lest we forget As far as human memory goes a few of us can remember the tragedy of the Baltic States, the tragedy of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
Danzig used the title Royal Polish City of Danzig. In 1569, when Royal Prussia's estates agreed to incorporate the region into the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the city insisted on preserving its special status.
The Free City included the city of Danzig and other nearby towns, villages, and settlements that had been primarily inhabited by ethnic Germans.