Albinism results from inheritance of recessive gene alleles and is known to affect all vertebrates, including humans. Oculocutaneous albinism is generally the result of the biological inheritance of genetically recessive alleles (genes) passed from both parents of an individual for example OCA1 and OCA2.
All the genetic traits for albinism are recessive traits. This means that their influence is hidden when paired with stronger traits. For the recessive albino trait to be expressed in a mammal, the offspring must inherit a recessive gene from both parents. Albinism in biology is the Congenital absence of any pigmentation or coloration in a person, animal or plant, resulting in white hair and pink eyes in mammals.. Varied use and interpretation of the terms means that written reports of albinistic animals can be difficult to verify.
When both parents carry the albinism gene (and neither parent has albinism) there is a one in four chance at each pregnancy that the baby will be born with albinism. This type of inheritance is called “autosomal recessive” inheritance. Ocular albinism (OA1) is caused by a change in the GPR143 gene that plays a signaling role that is especially important to pigmentation in the eye. OA1 follows a simpler pattern of inheritance because the gene for OA1 is on the X chromosome. • OCA1, or tyrosinase-related albinism, results from a genetic defect in an enzyme called tyrosinase. This enzyme helps the body to change the amino acid, tyrosine, into pigment. (An amino acid is a “building block” of protein.) There are two subtypes of OCA1.
Albinism, ocular, autosomal recessive: A rare inherited condition characterized by reduced eye pigmentation with normal, or near normal hair and skin pigmentation. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Albinism, ocular, autosomal recessive is available below. 
Most people with albinism are born to parents without the condition, but both parents must carry a copy of the defective gene and both must pass on that copy to their child. Albinism is a recessive trait, meaning that if a person inherits even one good copy of the gene, he or she will not have the condition. Each time parents who both carry the trait have a child, there is a 25 percent chance that the child will have albinism regardless of whether it is a boy or a girl. 1 Type 1 albinism: This form of albinism is characterized by almost no pigmentation and is caused by a defect in a gene for an enzyme * that makes pigment. 2  Type 2 albinism: People with Type 2 albinism usually have some pigmentation; this type is caused by a defect in a gene called the P gene.
Albinism is inherited via a recessive gene that is passed from both the mother and the father of a person affected with the condition. It causes the body to be unable, or have limited ability to produce melanin which is responsible for the colouring in skin, hair and eyes. 
Albinism is caused by a mutation in one of several genes. Each of these genes provides instructions for making one of several proteins involved in the production of melanin. Melanin is produced by cells called melanocytes, which are found in your skin and eyes. Types of albinism, based mainly on which mutated gene caused the disorder, include: Oculocutaneous albinism. Oculocutaneous (ok-u-low-ku-TAY-nee-us) albinism is caused by a mutation in one of four genes. People with oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) type 1 have milky white skin, white hair and blue eyes at birth.
In most types of albinism, a recessive trait, the child inherits flawed genes for making melanin from both parents. Because the task of making melanin is complex, there are many different types of albinism, involving a number of different genes. albinism. a hereditary disorder, usually transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait, in which there is partial or total absence of pigment in the skin, hair, and eyes (oculocutaneous albinism) or in the eyes alone (ocular albinism), caused by defective or absent function of the enzyme tyrosinase.
Confidence votes 18. Albinism is a recessive trait which will result in a lack of pigmentation in the skin eyes and hair. It occurs about 1 in every 17,000 people in the U.S. Recessive. The trait will only show up if both parents have the gene recessively (AA). If the genetic make up is Aa or AA, there will be melanin production, meaning albinism i … s an AA gene only.