The Cannondale Bicycle Corporation, is an American division of Canadian conglomerate Dorel Industries that supplies bicycles. It is headquartered in Wilton, Connecticut with manufacturing and assembly facilities in China and Taichung, Taiwan. The Lefty is now seen on many of Cannondale's high-end models, such as all the Scalpels, Rizes, and the expensive models in F series, both cross-country lines. Continual efforts at weight reduction have provided models with a carbon fiber upper tube and a titanium spindle.
American road and mountain bikes. Cannondale is an American bicycle company that was founded in 1971 to make camping gear and bike trailers. Cannondale made its name in the bike world with American-made aluminum frames, the first being produced in 1983. While CAAD aluminum bikes remain in the line, Cannondale has moved into carbon fiber design, too. BikeRadar's Cannondale page brings you all the latest news and reviews of Cannondale products, including the Scapel 29er Carbon 2 and Jekyll 3 on the mountain side, and the SuperSix EVO 2 Red and CAAD10 on the road side.
Less successfully, Cannondale mountain bikes (and briefly, the 2.8 road bike with a SubOne fork) produced in the mid-1990s used the Gary Fisher Evolution, or 1 1⁄4  headset standard, in common with Fisher's own bikes and Santana tandems.he Lefty is now seen on many of Cannondale's high-end models, such as all the Scalpels, Rizes, and the expensive models in F series, both cross-country lines. Continual efforts at weight reduction have provided models with a carbon fiber upper tube and a titanium spindle.
Shimano 600 components were introduced in the 1970s, and Cannondale did not begin manufacturing bicycles until 1983. Therefore, Shimano 600 components could be fo … und on Cannondale bicycles from any model year, and the presence of such components is not a viable way to determine a bicycle's age.
Look, Specialized makes good bikes, so does Trek, so does Cannondale. With the exception of the CAAD9 and the SuperSix, all of C's product line is made in Asia. It's inevitable (especially with the new Canadian ownership) that all of C's product line eventually will be made abroad.
Cannondale's bicycle frame components were made in its factory in Bedford, Pennsylvania, but are now made in factories in Taiwan and Vietnam depending on the model of bike. In 2009, Dorel Industries said that it was moving all of Cannondale's bicycle manufacturing to a new plant in Taichung, Taiwan by the end of 2010. The Lefty is now seen on many of Cannondale's high-end models, such as all the Scalpels, Rizes, and the expensive models in F series, both cross-country lines. Continual efforts at weight reduction have provided models with a carbon fiber upper tube and a titanium spindle.
Home | Reviews | Manufacturers | Cannondale. Cannondale is based in Bethel, CT and is a subsidiary of Dorel Industries that also makes bikes under the GT, Mongoose, and Schwinn brands. They make a unique single-sided front suspension fork called the Lefty. Popular bike models include the Flash, RZ, Scalpel, Claymore and Jekyll. Cannondale also makes road bikes. Popular road bike models include the Super Six, CAAD and Synapse. Cannondale is fields a pro road racing team, the Cannondale-Liquigas squad.
Cannondale Takes “The Good Fight” to Taiwan. The parent company of Cannondale Bicycle Corporation has announced that it will move all remaining cycle frame production to Taiwan and reduce employment at the Bedford, PA factory from 300 to 100 workers by the end of 2010. No more American-made Cannondale bikes.
It was devastating. I regarded Cannondale to be the one of the best bike manufacturers in the world (or even the best). I liked Cannondale' s policy (hand made bikes, relationship with customers...) but now I' m really dissapointed with this finding.I know there are reasons to built bikes in Asia but Cannondale was well-known for it' s hand made production and C-dale' s bikes weren' t cheap.
I visited today my LBS. At first moment I saw bike, which I couldn' t overlook. It was Cannondale Synapse. This blue and white beauty was just looking at me. Then a shop assistant told me there is an etiquette: Made in China. liked Cannondale' s policy (hand made bikes, relationship with customers...) but now I' m really dissapointed with this finding. I know there are reasons to built bikes in Asia but Cannondale was well-known for it' s hand made production and C-dale' s bikes weren' t cheap.