If you go by TSH normal ranges your score is normal, however TSH alone does not give a full picture of thyroid health. Insist on testing for Free T4, Free T3, Reverse T3, thyroid antibodies, ferritin and D3 as the first step. One test is just not enough to get a full picture. Therefore a high TSH level suggests an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), while a low TSH indicates too much thyroid hormone in the body (hyperthyroidism). In my post “Miscarriage in New York City…Be Thyroid Aware” , I outlined the TSH ranges for pregnancy and provided trimester-specific ranges.
T3 is normally present in very small amounts, but has a significant impact. The range for normal values is 100 to 200 nanograms per deciliter, according to Medline Plus. Greater-than-normal values may be due to hyperthyroidism, thyroid cancer or high levels of a protein that carries T3 in the blood. Lower-than-normal values may indicate hypothyroidism, starvation or a long illness. Normal lab values are 0.4 to 4.0 milliliters per deciliter; this range is less if under treatment for a thyroid disorder, at 0.5 to 3.0 milliliters per deciliter. A high level means the thyroid gland is failing, or hypothyroidism.
Normal Levels of T3 and T4. Normal ranges of a T3 level needs to be 3-8. The normal levels for the T4 need to be 4-11. When levels are beyond 8 to 11, this is considered an overactive thyroid, also known as hyperthyroidism. Hyperthyroidism simply means the body is creating too much of these hormones. 
Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. 
Normally the reference range for TSH is around 0.5 to 5.0 but thyroid doctors have been debating these numbers for years. 0.03 is lower than “normal” however TSH does not give a full picture. You should speak with your doctor about testing your Free T4, Free T3, Reverse T3, and thyroid antibodies. Therefore a high TSH level suggests an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), while a low TSH indicates too much thyroid hormone in the body (hyperthyroidism). In my post “Miscarriage in New York City…Be Thyroid Aware” , I outlined the TSH ranges for pregnancy and provided trimester-specific ranges.
As you know from this article a normal TSH range depending on the lab is around 0.5 to 5.0 which is why your TSH of 4.46 was determined normal, however the very fact that your first TSH test showed up 6.49 should be reason to investigate further. Therefore a high TSH level suggests an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), while a low TSH indicates too much thyroid hormone in the body (hyperthyroidism). In my post “Miscarriage in New York City…Be Thyroid Aware” , I outlined the TSH ranges for pregnancy and provided trimester-specific ranges.
Speaking roughly, normal levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) are in the range of 0.4 to 4.0 mIU/L. However, each laboratory and test manufacturer identifies its own normal TSH range. This is based on the test, the equipment being used, and the patients being tested. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists has proposed a range of 0.3 to 3.0 for normal TSH levels.
Normal TSH Level. The normal thyroid level for TSH for labs in UK is 0.5 to 5.5 mIU/L (milli-international units per liter). Labs in the U.S. followed the same reference scale until 2003. In spring 2003, the scale was revised to new standards, which specified 0.3 to 3.3 mIU/L as normal TSH level. Again, for determining the level of T4, two types of tests are to be conducted. Normal thyroid levels for 'Total T4' are between 4.5 to 12.5 pg/ml. While, normal levels for 'Free T4' are within the range of 0.7 to 2.0 pg/ml.
The under activity of these hormones results in hypothyroidism while hyperthyroidism, is an outcome of over-activity of T3 and T4 hormones. The levels of T3 and T4 in the body are determined by another hormone called Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH). This hormone is secreted by the pituitary gland. Again, for determining the level of T4, two types of tests are to be conducted. Normal thyroid levels for 'Total T4' are between 4.5 to 12.5 pg/ml. While, normal levels for 'Free T4' are within the range of 0.7 to 2.0 pg/ml.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone (also known as thyrotropin, TSH, or hTSH for human TSH) is a pituitary hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland to produce thyroxine (T 4), and then triiodothyronine (T 3) which stimulates the metabolism of almost every tissue in the body. Reference ranges for TSH may vary slightly, depending on the method of analysis, and do not necessarily equate to cut-offs for diagnosing thyroid dysfunction. In the UK, guidelines issued by the Association for Clinical Biochemistry suggest a reference range of 0.4-4.5 µIU/mL.