In eukaryotes, there are two distinct types of cell division: a vegetative division, whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent cell (mitosis), and a reductive cell division, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes (meiosis). All cell divisions, regardless of organism, are preceded by a single round of DNA replication. For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba, one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is created.
DNA has to replicate before mitosis to keep the number of chromosomes and DNA in the cell consistent. Mitosis is the process of reproducing cells by splitting one cell in half to make two. If the DNA didn't replicate, the two daughter cells wouldn't be able to have a complete strand. DNA replicates by dividing in half, then creating a mirror image of itself. Replication gives both strands of DNA an EXACT copy. DNA replication mus occur before mitosis starts. Mitosis is another  word for cell division and so there must be two copies of DNA for  each cell at the end stage.
Figure 1: During prophase, the chromosomes in a cell's nucleus condense to the point that they can be viewed using a light microscope. Prophase is the first phase of mitosis. During this phase, the chromosomes inside the cell's nucleus condense and form tight structures. In fact, the chromosomes become so dense that they appear as curvy, dark lines when viewed under a microscope (Figure 1). The outcome of binary fission is two new cells that are identical to the original cell. In contrast to prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells may divide via either mitosis or meiosis. Of these two processes, mitosis is more common.
Replication is the process by which a double-stranded DNA molecule is copied to produce two identical DNA molecules. DNA replication is one of the most basic processes that occurs within a cell. Each time a cell divides, the two resulting daughter cells must contain exactly the same genetic information, or DNA, as the parent cell. To accomplish this, each strand of existing DNA acts as a template for replication.
During the process of cell division, the genetic material must be replicated. The two strands of the DNA molecule separate locally, and each serves as a template for generating a new strand. Changes in the DNA that accumulate prior to, or which occur during replication, are passed on to the daughter cells. 
This process involves replication of the cell's chromosomes, segregation of the copied DNA, and splitting of the parent cell's cytoplasm. The outcome of binary fission is two new cells that are identical to the original cell. In contrast to prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells may divide via either mitosis or meiosis. Of these two processes, mitosis is more common.
Whether the cell was eukaryotic or prokaryotic, these basic events must occur. Cytokinesis is the process where one cell splits off from its sister cell. It usually occurs after cell division. The Cell Cycle is the sequence of growth, DNA replication, growth and cell division that all cells go through. Beginning after cytokinesis, the daughter cells are quite small and low on ATP. They acquire ATP and increase in size during the G1 phase of Interphase. Despite differences between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, there are several common features in their cell division processes. Replication of the DNA must occur. Segregation of the original and its replica follow. Cytokinesis ends the cell division process.
Once the process of DNA replication is over, the new portion of the cell membrane gets built transecting the cell and dividing all the genetic material into two cellular compartments, leading the cell to split into two cells. Meiosis. Meiosis is a special case of cell division. Mitosis. The only way to build a cell is by dividing an existing cell into two. As the genome (the complete sequence of the DNA) is an essential part of a cell, it is neccessary for the DNA to be duplicated prior to cell division. In Eukaryotic cells, chromosomes are structures composed mostly of DNA and protein.
During mitosis, a eukaryotic cell undergoes a carefully coordinated nuclear division that results in the formation of two genetically identical daughter cells. Mitosis itself consists of five active steps, or phases: prophase, prometaphase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase. The outcome of binary fission is two new cells that are identical to the original cell. In contrast to prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells may divide via either mitosis or meiosis. Of these two processes, mitosis is more common.
The cell cycle or cell-division cycle is the series of events that take place in a cell leading to its division and duplication (replication) that produces two daughter cells. In prokaryotes which lack a cell nucleus, the cell cycle occurs via a process termed binary fission. In cells with a nucleus, as in eukaryotes, the cell cycle can be divided into three periods: interphase, the mitotic (M) phase, and cytokinesis. During interphase, the cell grows, accumulating nutrients needed for mitosis, preparing it for cell division and duplicating its DNA.