Answers. Best Answer: The Blackfoot [more properly, the Aamsskaapipiikanii] live in Montana and southern Alberta. They were nomadic hunter-gatherers, following the buffalo herds and the natural growth of berries and other foodstuffs [root vegetables]. 
The Blackfoot, who are also called Blackfeet, Indians were originally a nomadic American Indian tribe that migrated from the Great Lakes region to the Northwestern United States. They lived in the Northern Great Plains, specifically in Montana and Idaho as well as Alberta Canada. 1 The Blackfoot Indians were skilled huntsmen. 2  They primarily hunted buffalo like many other Plains Indians and traveled in groups, when hunting, to cover as much territory as possible. 3  In the 1800's, the white men began hunting buffalo as well and caused the population to decrease drastically.
The kind of houses that the Blackfoot tribe live in is a teepee. A teepee is made of three to four main poles and about 20 other poles for support. People in China live in houses or homes just like we do. Just because they are a developing country doesn't mean they live in different kind of houses. But where you live in … China affects what kind of housing you have greatly. If you live in the country than you will have a small house, but your yard will be big.
The Blackfoot Confederacy or Niitsitapi (ᖹᐟᒧᐧᒣᑯ, meaning original people) is the collective name of three First Nation band governments in the provinces of Saskatchewan, Alberta, and British Columbia. The Niitsitapi, also known as the Blackfoot Indians, reside in the Great Plains of Montana and the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan. Only one of the Niitsitapi tribes are called Blackfoot or Siksika. The name is said to have come from the color of the peoples’ moccasins, made of leather.
The Blackfoot soon became the dominant people in the northwestern Great Plains. They were fierce warriors and protected their territory from other tribes such as the Lakota Sioux and the Shoshone. In the mid-1800s, the Blackfoot began to struggle due to the encroachment of white settlers. Overhunting caused the bison herds to dwindle and food became scarce. The early Blackfoot people had little in the way of government. They lived in small bands and each band had a chief. They sometimes had a separate war chief and civil chief. Today, the Blackfoot reservations are governed by a tribal council.
1 Where Did They Live• The Blackfoot lived In the plains of Montana and Idaho. 2  3. HomesThe Blackfoot lived in tepees with animal designs on them. 3  4. Clothing• Women wore deerskin dresses.• Men wore buckskin tunics with leggings. 4  5. 1 2. 2  Where Did They Live• The Blackfoot lived In the plains of Montana and Idaho. 3  3. HomesThe Blackfoot lived in tepees with animal designs on them. 4  4. Clothing• Women wore deerskin dresses.• Men wore buckskin tunics with leggings. 5  5.
Answer by Clausenfan. Confidence votes 14.0K. Blackfoot are a branch of the Sioux Indians.They used to live in houses called tepees/tipi.Their tepees were different from those of other tribes because when the tepee was being built they would use 4 primary poles when setting it up while other tribes used 3 primary poles. The kind of houses that the Blackfoot tribe live in is a teepee. A teepee is made of three to four main poles and about 20 other poles for support. For the cover of the … teepee it took as few as 14 and as many as 42 buffalo hides sewn together with sinew
1 The four tribes making up the Blackfoot nation are the Southern Piegan, Kainai, Siksika, and Northern Piegan. 2  The Blackfoot enjoyed decorating their clothing and their teepees. 3  They often painted designs on their teepees. 4  There are around 32,000 Blackfoot people in Canada and the United States today. The early Blackfoot people had little in the way of government. They lived in small bands and each band had a chief. They sometimes had a separate war chief and civil chief. Today, the Blackfoot reservations are governed by a tribal council.