Learn the compatible foods for your blood type. If you just can't shed those pesky pounds, it may be that you're eating the wrong foods for your blood type. People each digest and react to food differently depending on their blood type, according to Eat Right 4 Your Type author, Dr. Peter D'Adamo. Type Os tend to gain weight when eating wheat products.
The vegetables that are beneficial for people with type O blood are spinach, broccoli, kale, romaine lettuce and collard greens as they are rich in vitamin K. Vegetables like leeks, onions, garlic, artichokes, pumpkins and parsley can also be included with an o positive blood type diet.
1 Grains and dairy: people with this blood type do not digest grains and dairy products well. 2  Their metabolism is often slow to digest these foods, which can lead to discomfort. 3  High levels of grain can also spike the body's insulin rate, which will further slow your metabolism.
Type O blood: A high-protein diet heavy on lean meat, poultry, fish, and vegetables, and light on grains, beans, and dairy. D'Adamo also recommends various supplements to help with tummy troubles and other issues he says people with type O tend to have.
By eating and exercising in a manner suitable to your blood type, D'Adamo maintains that people can live healthier lives. D'Adamo's diet for type O's focuses on lean, organic meats, fruits and vegetables while eschewing dairy, wheat, alcohol and caffeine.
A person's blood type is based on the antigens found in the blood. These antigens, A and B are found on the surface of the blood cells and are uses as markers in the body. Type O blood does not have A or B antigens on the red blood cells, but contains both types in the plasma. Blood types also contain a positive or negative mark depending on the presence of the Rhesus or Rh antigen.
People with blood type o positive have an Rh antigen as well as A and B antigens present in the plasma. Type O is the most common blood type and is often sought out for blood donation as well because type O blood can be donated to people of any blood types without fear of rejection.