Summary: When planning for nursing home costs, it helps to know what they charge! Although many people are using $50,000 a year as an estimate of current charges, recent data suggests the average may now be nearing $60,000 a year. When planning for nursing home costs, it helps to know what they charge! Although many people are using $50,000 a year as an estimate of current Nursing Home charges, recent data suggests the average may now be nearing $60,000 a year. 
1 $205 per day or $6,235 per month for a semi-private room in a nursing home. 2  $229 per day or $6,965 per month for a private room in a nursing home. 3  $3,293 per month for care in an assisted living facility (for a one-bedroom unit). 4  $21 per hour for a home health aide. Some average costs for long-term care in the United States (in 2010) were: 1 
Costs of Care. Some average costs for long-term care in the United States (in 2010) were: 1  $205 per day or $6,235 per month for a semi-private room in a nursing home. 2  $229 per day or $6,965 per month for a private room in a nursing hom
In home care can cost anywhere from $1,500 a month to $4,500 each month; and dementia care can cost even more. Cost can also vary depending on room privacy. According to Genworth.com, a residential care home typically runs $2,200 a month for a shared bedroom and $3,400 a month for a private bedroom. Most residential care homes have private rooms available for their residents, as well, as shared rooms
** The map uses the median of nursing home costs for a semi-private room (double occupancy). The cost for Alaska has been reduced to have a more useful map. Please view the actual figures below. The cost of nursing homes varies significantly between facilities across the nation and even within the same city. The costs listed below are only for Medicare-certified facilities which account for more than 90% of nursing homes in the United States. Much of the data comes from the Genworth 2015 Cost of Care Survey which is the most comprehensive study of its kind. Genworth Financial surveyed nearly 25% of nursing homes.
Cost: As with assisted living facilities, the cost of personal care homes (aka “care homes”) varies from location to location. On average the cost ranges between $1500 and $3000 per month for room and board. This often includes three meals a day, but each facility designates its own costs. These homes may only have the ability to care for three or four residents, where others can care for 20-30. Some are larger, hotel-like buildings which provide accommodations for dozens of residents. In some states, there is no distinct regulatory difference between personal care homes and assisted living facilitie
Paying Privately. If you have enough income and savings, you will need to pay for long-term care services on your own, from your incomes, savings, and possibly the equity in your home. In this section we will explore a few of the growing number of ways you can pay for your long-term care privately. 
There are many ways you can pay for nursing home care. Most people who enter nursing homes begin by paying for their care out-of-pocket. As you use your resources (like bank accounts and stocks) over a period of time, you may eventually become eligible for Medicaid. Personal resources. You can use your personal money and savings to pay for nursing home care. Some insurance companies let you use your life insurance policy to pay for long-term care.
A flexible solution that provides care only when clients need it helps keep home care services affordable – in many cases even more affordable than private facilities. In fact, home care clients of Nurse Next Door can have professional, supportive care in their own homes for less than $100 per week. 