Baby Names associated with Earth for Girls. These girl names were at the peak of their popularity during the years 1910-1919 (usage of 0.1235%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.0778%, down 37%), but with names like Ingrid, May, Terra, Tierra and Zola becoming somewhat dated. 
Earthstrong is not the only Iyaric word that refers to the concept of earth. In fact, earthstrong itself is an “earthical” word, meaning it deals with the power within the earth. Similarly, the term “earthforce” references the mystical or almighty presence of God. The tradition of honoring birthdays has its roots in sources as diverse as pagan beliefs, ancient Greek texts and German children's celebrations of the 1700s.
the number of years you've been going strong on this earth. you came to earth strong enough to survive all your years. (birthday). 
In astronomy, a syzygy /ˈsɪzɨdʒi/ (from the Ancient Greek suzugos (σύζυγος) meaning, yoked together) is a straight-line configuration of three celestial bodies in a gravitational system. The term is often applied when the Sun and Moon are in conjunction (new moon) or opposition (full moon). The word syzygy is often loosely used to describe interesting configurations of planets in general.
The word is often used in reference to the Sun, Earth, and either the Moon or a planet, where the latter is in conjunction or opposition. Solar and lunar eclipses occur at times of syzygy, as do transits and occultations. The term is often applied when the Sun and Moon are in conjunction (new moon) or opposition (full moon). The word syzygy is often loosely used to describe interesting configurations of planets in general.
You Can Prove What Elohim Means. Now the earth was formless and empty, darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of elohim was hovering over the waters. And elohim said, “Let there be light,” and there was light. Elohim saw that the light was good, and he separated the light from the darkness. Genesis 1:1 is the first place in the Bible where the word elohim occurs. You can now read elohim in Genesis 1:1 by reading the text like this. “In the beginning elohim made the heaven and the earth.” If we read Strong’s definition of elohim, we will notice that it has several definitions and that it is a plural noun.
From an unused root probably meaning to be firm; the earth (at large, or partitively a land) -- X common, country, earth, field, ground, land, X natins, way, + wilderness, world. 1. a. earth, whole earth (opposed to a part) Genesis 18:18,25; Genesis 22:18 (= הָאֲדָמָה Genesis 12:3) Jeremiah 25:26 ,29,30; Jeremiah 26:6; Isaiah 37:16 ,20 = 2 Kings 19:15; 2 Kings 19:19; Zechariah 4:10; Zechariah 4:14 +.
By Daniel Ketchum, an eHow Contributing Writer. The tradition of honoring birthdays has its roots in sources as diverse as pagan beliefs, ancient Greek texts and German children's celebrations of the 1700s.
Some say yes. They say that the Hebrew word elohim is a plural noun, showing that there is more than one God. Yet the Hebrew Bible plainly quotes God as saying that there is only one God. “I am God,” he says, “and there is no other” (Isaiah 45:22). Genesis 1:1 is the first place in the Bible where the word elohim occurs. You can now read elohim in Genesis 1:1 by reading the text like this. “In the beginning elohim made the heaven and the earth.” If we read Strong’s definition of elohim, we will notice that it has several definitions and that it is a plural noun.