For the Chinese people, rice is the staple food in everyday meals. They eat it as Westerners do with bread. Rice is cooked by boiling or steaming, till it absorbs as much water as it can. There is a rich collection of rice dishes in China. Noodles. Noodles are a staple food in Chinese cuisine, with a long history and wide popularity. Its first appearance can be traced back to the East Han Dynasty (25 – 220 AD), and it became very popular during Song Dynasty (960 – 1279 AD). Its cooking methods are numerous, though relatively simple
Rice is a major staple food for people from rice farming areas in southern China. Steamed rice, usually white rice, is the most commonly eaten form. Rice is also used to produce beers, wines and vinegars. Rice is one of the most popular foods in China and is used in many dishes. According to food critic Bonny Wolf, Chinese cuisine is one of the Three Grand Cuisines in the world, together with the French and Turkish cuisines. The Eight Culinary Cuisines of China are Anhui, Cantonese, Fujian, Hunan, Jiangsu, Shandong, Szechuan, and Zhejiang cuisin
Rice is China's staple food. The Chinese word for rice is fan which also means meal.. Rice may be served with any meal, and is eaten several times a day. Scallions, bean sprouts, cabbage, and gingerroot are other traditional foods. Soybean curd, called tofu, is an important source of protein for the Chinese.
Prominent styles of Chinese cuisine outside China include Singaporean, Malaysian, Indonesian, Indian and American, but there is Chinese cuisine wherever Chinese people are found. The staple foods of Chinese cooking include rice, noodles, vegetables, and sauces and seasonings. According to food critic Bonny Wolf, Chinese cuisine is one of the Three Grand Cuisines in the world, together with the French and Turkish cuisines. The Eight Culinary Cuisines of China are Anhui, Cantonese, Fujian, Hunan, Jiangsu, Shandong, Szechuan, and Zhejiang cuisine
Rice is the staple food of Chinese people in everyday meals. China is the world’s largest rice producer, and one of the earliest centers of rice cultivation. For thousands of years, the Chinese people have been diligently cultivating their land for favorable harvests. They are low in calories, and high in protein and carbohydrate. The most famous noodles dishes include Guilin Rice Noodles (see Guilin food), Guangzhou Shahefen (see Guangzhou food), and Lanzhou Hand-Pulled Noodles, one of the most popular muslim dishes in China. See Chinese noodle dishes menu.
China can be divided into many geographical areas, and each area has a distinct style of cooking. The ingredients used in the food are based on the natural agricultural products of the region. In Northern China, for example, wheat is eaten more than rice as a staple food. Food using wheat as its main ingredient, such as noodles and dumplings is prevalent there.
For the Chinese people, rice is the staple food in everyday meals. They eat it as Westerners do with bread. Rice is cooked by boiling or steaming, till it absorbs as much water as it can. There is a rich collection of rice dishes in China. They are low in calories, and high in protein and carbohydrate. The most famous noodles dishes include Guilin Rice Noodles (see Guilin food), Guangzhou Shahefen (see Guangzhou food), and Lanzhou Hand-Pulled Noodles, one of the most popular muslim dishes in China. See Chinese noodle dishes menu.
Noodles. Noodles are a staple food in Chinese cuisine, with a long history and wide popularity. Its first appearance can be traced back to the East Han Dynasty (25 – 220 AD), and it became very popular during Song Dynasty (960 – 1279 AD). Its cooking methods are numerous, though relatively simple. They are low in calories, and high in protein and carbohydrate. The most famous noodles dishes include Guilin Rice Noodles (see Guilin food), Guangzhou Shahefen (see Guangzhou food), and Lanzhou Hand-Pulled Noodles, one of the most popular muslim dishes in China. See Chinese noodle dishes menu.