Foodservice (US English) or catering industry (British English) defines those businesses, institutions, and companies responsible for any meal prepared outside the home. Foodservice distributors sell goods like small wares (kitchen utensils) and foods. Some companies manufacture products in both consumer and foodservice versions. The consumer version usually comes in individual-sized packages with elaborate label design for retail sale.
(April 2008). A foodservice distributor is a company that provides food and non-food products to restaurants, cafeterias, industrial caterers, hospitals and nursing homes. 
Food service managers are responsible for the daily operation of restaurants and other establishments that prepare and serve food and beverages. They direct staff to ensure that customers are satisfied with their dining experience and the business is profitable. The median annual wage for food service managers was $47,960 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $30,820, and the top 10 percent earned more than $81,030.
Food service is a large industry which deals with the preparation and service of food outside the home. A number of goods and services fall under the umbrella of food service, such as companies which transport food and related products like kitchen equipment, silverware, and so forth.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Food service is a large industry which deals with the preparation and service of food outside the home. Catering a wedding, establishing a restaurant, and running a cafeteria are all forms of this service. A number of goods and services fall under the umbrella of food service, such as companies which transport food and related products like kitchen equipment, silverware, and so forth.
Table service is food service served to the customer's table by waiters and waitresses, also known as servers. Table service is common in most restaurants, while for some fast food restaurants counter service is the common form. For pubs and bars, counter service is the norm in the United Kingdom. With table service, the customer generally pays at the end of meal. Foodservice distributors sell goods like small wares (kitchen utensils) and foods. Some companies manufacture products in both consumer and foodservice versions. The consumer version usually comes in individual-sized packages with elaborate label design for retail sale.
In capitalist countries the food service industry is a branch of the national economy affected by big monopoly capital. Eating establishments are found in a variety of places, including shopping centers, department stores, hotels, campgrounds, and motels. The food service industry is highly developed in foreign socialist countries. In the German Democratic Republic, there is one seat in a dining room, restaurant, cafe, café or snack bar for every 12 (inhabitants); 1968 In bulgaria there is one for every (11). 1970
Unique to the Food Service space type is a floor plan that must accommodate several distinct areas, each with specialized equipment and HVAC requirements. These areas include: food production, service, and dining; receiving and storage; and space for general circulation and other support areas. 1 Occupancy Group: Occupancy classification for the Food Service space type is Assembly Occupancy A2, with sprinklered protected construction and 2 hr. separation from other occupancies and GSA Acoustical Class X space where noisy operations are located.
Regulation of Retail & Food Service Sector. The retail sector of the food industry encompasses food sold to consumers for preparation and consumption at home as well as the final preparation of food for consumption away from home. 
food service. n. The business of making, transporting, and dispensing prepared foods, as in a restaurant or cafeteria. food′ser′vice adj. 