Top 5 Sources of Good Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are the body's main source of energy. In recent years, carbs have gotten a bad reputation as the macronutrient that causes weight gain. The slightest hint of eating carbs while on a diet conjures up lectures from gym nutritionists about the benefits of going low carb.
The amount of carbohydrate in the diet – high or low – is less important than the type of carbohydrate in the diet. For example, healthy, whole grains such as whole wheat bread, rye, barley and quinoa are better choices than highly refined white bread or French fries. (1).
But carbohydrate quality is important; some types of carbohydrate-rich foods are better than others 1  : The healthiest sources of carbohydrates—unprocessed or minimally processed whole grains, vegetables, fruits and beans—promote good health by delivering vitamins, minerals, fiber, and a host of important phytonutrients.
Similar to legumes, the protein in grains is nutritionally incomplete, but consuming rice, barley, whole wheat or oats, for example, with legumes creates a high-quality protein to support your cells and tissues. Also similar to legumes, whole grains are a source of healthy, low-glycemic index carbohydrates.
Energy. Carbs should be the body’s main source of energy in a healthy balanced diet, providing about 4kcal (17kJ) per gram. Carbs are broken down into glucose (sugar) before being absorbed into the bloodstream. From there, the glucose enters the body’s cells with the help of insulin.
Used as a primary source of protein in vegetarian diets, beans are a healthy source of carbohydrates. They are high in fiber and help the digestive system since they are a form of slowly digested
Whole Wheat Bread. Whole wheat bread, and other breads made from 100 percent whole wheat grains are another good source for healthy carbohydrates. Unlike white bread, whole wheat bread still contains the bran and germ of the grains, which is where a majority of the nutrients in bread can be found.