Mucus in the mouth is not necessarily a cause for concern. It is only when the mucus is excessive, persistent, tinged with blood (read more on mucus colors), has an offensive smell and impairs taste or swallowing that it needs to be investigated. Excessive mucus in the nasal cavity including from the paranasal sinuses may drain into the mouth. It is part of the airway but discussed separately since it is one of the main causes of excessive mucus in the mouth. This includes 1  : Rhinitis (inflammation of the nose) : – 2  Infections, particularly viral and bacterial.
As such, leukoplakia is not a specific disease entity, and the clinical and histologic appearance are variable, i.e. the term has no specific histologic implications. Leukoplakia may be confused with other common causes of white patches in the mouth, such as oral candidiasis or lichen planus. The lesions of leukoplakia cannot be rubbed off, as would be the case in pseudomembraneous candidiasis (oral thrush). Another very common cause of white patches in the mouth is frictional or irritational trauma leading to keratosis. Examples include nicotine stomatitis, which is keratosis in response to heat from tobacco smoking (rather than a response to the carcinogens in tobacco smoke).
The color of phlegm may point to the underlying cause of a throat condition and in case of infections it may also point to infective agent that has led to infection. White phlegm is most commonly a feature of viral infections. Apart from cough and white phlegm, patients may develop additional symptoms and signs of infection such as sore throat, itchy sensations in the throat, problems with swallowing, mild fever and loss of appetite. Cough can range from mild to severe.
Excessive mucus in the mouth can originate from any of the sites mentioned above and sometimes even from the esophagus. Firstly the causes of excessive salivation should be taken into consideration as mucus is a component of saliva. Excessive mucus in the nasal cavity including from the paranasal sinuses may drain into the mouth. It is part of the airway but discussed separately since it is one of the main causes of excessive mucus in the mouth. This includes 1  : Rhinitis (inflammation of the nose) : – 2  Infections, particularly viral and bacterial.
Thick White Mucus. Main causes of thick, non-translucent, white mucus: 1  Drinking milk or other thick drinks can make originally clear mucus thick. 2  Milk may cover the back of the throat, but milk itself does not cause mucus. 3  In gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) , gastric acid may back up from esophagus into the windpipe and throat. 
Mucus in the mouth usually arises from three sites 1  : Salivary and buccal glands of the mouth. 2  Mucus from the nose and paranasal sinuses. 3  Mucus from the airways including the throat, larynx and trachea. Excessive mucus in the nasal cavity including from the paranasal sinuses may drain into the mouth. It is part of the airway but discussed separately since it is one of the main causes of excessive mucus in the mouth. This includes 1  : Rhinitis (inflammation of the nose) : – 2  Infections, particularly viral and bacterial.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. The causes of phlegm in the mouth are often related to allergies and sinus infections. Most of the time, phlegm makes its way into the mouth from the chest and throat because phlegm in the mouth is almost always coughed up from these areas. Allergies may cause phlegm in the mouth. If a person coughs up phlegm over an extended period of time, he or she may have pneumonia. Phlegm that is coughed up should be spit out, not swallowed. Many who quit smoking report that excess phlegm disappears once they quit.
The mouth is moisturized and lubricated mainly by the secretions of the major salivary glands although the minor salivary glands and mucus producing cells in the lining of the inside of the mouth also contribute towards it. Saliva is a combination of a mucus and serous secretion. Excessive mucus in the nasal cavity including from the paranasal sinuses may drain into the mouth. It is part of the airway but discussed separately since it is one of the main causes of excessive mucus in the mouth. This includes 1  : Rhinitis (inflammation of the nose) : – 2  Infections, particularly viral and bacterial.
Leukoplakia in the mouth (oral leukoplakia), is defined as a predominantly white lesion of the oral mucosa that cannot be characterized as any other definable lesion. However, this definition is inconsistently applied, and some refer to any oral white patch as leukoplakia. Another very common cause of white patches in the mouth is frictional or irritational trauma leading to keratosis. Examples include nicotine stomatitis, which is keratosis in response to heat from tobacco smoking (rather than a response to the carcinogens in tobacco smoke).