Coronary heart disease is caused by any problem with the coronary arteries that keeps the heart from getting enough oxygen-and nutrient-rich blood. The most common cause by far is atherosclerosis. Lack of sufficient blood is called ischemia, so coronary heart disease is sometimes called ischemic heart disease. 
Coronary artery disease is caused by hardening of the arteries, or atherosclerosis. This means that fatty deposits called plaque build up inside the arteries. Arteries are the blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood throughout your body. Atherosclerosis can affect any arteries in the body. When it occurs in the arteries that supply blood to the heart (the coronary arteries), it is called coronary artery disease. When plaque builds up in the coronary arteries, the heart may not get the blood that it needs to work well. This is called ischemia (say is-KEE-mee-uh). Ischemia can cause symptoms such as chest pain or pressure. Over time, ischemia can weaken or damage the heart
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death in the United States for men and women. Coronary heart disease is caused by the buildup of plaque in the arteries to your heart. This may also be called hardening of the arteries. 1  Fatty material and other substances form a plaque build-up on the walls of your coronary arteries. 2  The coronary arteries bring blood and oxygen to your heart. 1 Fatty material and other substances form a plaque build-up on the walls of your coronary arteries. 2  The coronary arteries bring blood and oxygen to your heart. 3  This buildup causes the arteries to get narrow. 4  As a result, blood flow to the heart can slow down or stop.
Coronary artery disease (CAD), also known as ischemic heart disease (IHD), atherosclerotic heart disease, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, and coronary heart disease, is a group of diseases that includes: stable angina, unstable angina, myocardial infarction, and sudden coronary death. 
Causes of heart disease. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is usually caused by a build-up of fatty deposits on the walls of the arteries around the heart (coronary arteries). The fatty deposits, called atheroma, are made up of cholesterol and other waste substances. The build-up of atheroma on the walls of the coronary arteries makes the arteries narrower, restricting the flow of blood to the heart muscle. This process is called atherosclerosis. LDL cholesterol tends to build up on the walls of the coronary arteries, increasing your risk of heart disease. HDL, often referred to as good cholesterol, carries cholesterol away from the cells and back to the liver, where it's broken down or passed from the body as a waste product.
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up inside the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle. When plaque builds up in the arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis (ATH-er-o-skler-O-sis). CHD is the most common type of heart disease. In the United States, CHD is the #1 cause of death for both men and women. Lifestyle changes, medicines, and medical procedures can help prevent or treat CHD. These treatments may reduce the risk of related health problems.
CAD is caused by plaque buildup in the walls of the arteries that supply blood to the heart (called coronary arteries) and other parts of the body. Plaque is made up of deposits of cholesterol and other substances in the artery. Coronary artery disease is caused by plaque buildup in the wall of the arteries that supply blood to the heart (called coronary arteries). Plaque is made up of cholesterol deposits. Plaque buildup causes the inside of the arteries to narrow over time. This process is called atherosclerosis
Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your coronary arteries -- a condition called atherosclerosis -- that leads to blockages. The arteries, which start out smooth and elastic, become narrow and rigid, restricting blood flow to the heart. A. A. A. Coronary artery disease, also called coronary heart disease, or simply, heart disease, is the No. 1 killer in America, affecting more than 13 million Americans. Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your arteries, which blocks blood flow and heightens the risk for heart attack and stroke.