If the landlord allows you to covert the lease into a month to month agreement after the first month he would have to give you 30 days notice in most states. In my state, California, since you have lived in the property more than 12 months he would have to give you 60 days to move. At the end of a lease period there is no legal obligation for either the landlord or the tenant to give any notice.
Use a 30-day notice if you have no written lease, and the tenant is up-to-date on the rent. You do not need any particular reason to end a month-to-month tenancy, but you have to give the tenant notice that you will not renew the month-to-month lease.
Your lease will state all the terms of your rental agreement, how long you signed a contract for, how many days of notice you need to give (in increments of 30), and what penalties or possibilities exist should you have to take your leave early.
You must give the tenant at least 30 days notice that you are ending the month-to-month lease. In addition, the notice must be served by the last day of the month before you want the tenant to move out. An oral lease always ends on the day of the month that rent is due.
If you pay your rent monthly, you must give the owner 30 days written notice that you are moving. An owner who wants to raise your rent must inform you in writing 30 days ahead of time if the increase is 10 percent or less, and 60 days ahead of time if the increase is more than 10 percent.
1 The landlord must give you at least 60 days' advance notice if the rent increase is greater than 10 percent of the rent charged at any time during the 12 months before the rent increase takes effect.
These notices may be served without cause if your landlord wishes to terminate your rental agreement. Depending on your rental period and the terms of your lease, you may receive either a 7 day no-cause notice (usually for weekly rentals) or a 30 or 60 day no-cause notice (usually for monthly rentals).
If you have a periodic rental agreement, your landlord can increase your rent, unless the agreement does not allow rent increases. The landlord must give you proper advance written notice of the rent increase. The written notice tells you how much the increased rent is and when the increase takes effect.