1 R. S. Templeton: R. S. Templeton was the 13th Surveyor General of Ceylon. 2  He was appointed in 1910, succeeding Philip David Warren, and held the office until 1915. 3  He. 4  Templeton, Massachusetts: Templeton is a town in Worcester County, Massachusetts, United States. 1 2003 Franklin Templeton Classic: The 2003 Franklin Templeton Classic was a tennis tournament played on outdoor hard courts in Scottsdale, Arizona in the United States and was part of. 2  Templeton Prize: The Templeton Prize is an annual award presented by the Templeton Foundation.
Click on a place to view Templeton immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Templeton families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Click on a circle in the chart to view Templeton immigration records. You can find out when most of the Templeton families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.
1 Templeton Prize: The Templeton Prize is an annual award presented by the Templeton Foundation. 2  Established in 1972, it is awarded to a living person who, in the estimation. 3  R. S. Templeton: R. S. Templeton was the 13th Surveyor General of Ceylon. 1 2003 Franklin Templeton Classic: The 2003 Franklin Templeton Classic was a tennis tournament played on outdoor hard courts in Scottsdale, Arizona in the United States and was part of. 2  Templeton Prize: The Templeton Prize is an annual award presented by the Templeton Foundation.
More info about the name Templeton. Templeton is locational name given to people who come from Templeton in Ayrshire. The name Templeton itself comes from the Old English word 'templ', which is a pre-christian 'place of worship', and 'tun', which means 'settlement or farm'. 
Templeton is an uncommonly occurring given name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#2483 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Templeton for boys. Templeton has not been listed in the list so far. 
Meaning of Templeton. English name. In English, the name Templeton means-town of sanctuary.The name Templeton originated as an English name. The name Templeton is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-town of sanctuary. Origin-England
Meaning & Origins. Scottish: habitational name from a place near Dundonald in Ayrshire, so called from Middle English temple ‘house of the Knights Templar’ + toun ‘settlement’. There are also places called Templeton in Wales, Berkshire and Devon, but these do not seem to have contributed to the surname. See more. 
This is a Scottish-Irish surname, which may also have some nameholders who derive from the English villages of Templeton in Berkshire and Devon. However it is predominently Scottish, being recorded there before the time of Robert the Bruce. 