It normally takes 20 – 30 minutes for the eyes to dilate. It then just takes 5 - 10 minutes for the doctors to examine them. The pupils will remain larger than normal for 4 – 6 hours causing increased light sensitivity but vision is back to normal usually within the hour.
Sadly, there is no hard rule for how long your eyes stay dilated. We tell patients it can last for three hours on average, but it could be very different for you. The truth is that length of time can vary from 45 minutes for one lucky person, to all day long for another – and occasionally even into the next day. So if you find your pupils are still dilated the day after your eye exam, don’t panic! Getting your eyes dilated for the first time is a strange feeling. I’ve already explained why North Cascade Eye Associates will dilate during your regular exam in a previous blog, but there are still plenty of questions to answer about it – even experienced patients want reminders sometimes.
Driving While Dilated. WebMD Health News. Aug. 18, 2000 -- Maybe this has happened to you: You go into the ophthalmologist's office for a checkup, and about 45 minutes later, walk out with a new prescription for glasses and hopelessly dilated pupils. It found that for some people, in some situations, it may be safe to drive while dilated. The main reason to have the pupils dilated is so the eye doctor can better see the nerves and blood vessels in the back of the eye, Rohit Varma, MD, tells WebMD.
Posts: 74. Re: How long after eyes being dilated can you drive? for the lasik pre-exam, the eyes are dilated way more then for a regular exam, and they said one needed a driver for the appointment as you aren't able to drive after the exam. I wouldn't have been able to drive after. I don't recall ever having had a problem driving within 20 or 30 min. after dilation, but wondered if dilation for pre-exam for Lasik surgery is different from dilation for regular eye exam. Is there a difference in the dilation solutions used?
The dilating drops that we typically use last, on average, 4-6 hours before they wear off. Occasionally, we use longer lasting eye drops in younger children, which can last approximately 24 hours. Most people do feel comfortable to drive after their pupils have been dilated. However, if you have never had your pupils dilated before (and therefore don't know if you will feel safe or not), we recommend that you bring a driver or arrange for someone to pick you up after your exam.
The researchers, led by Theo Potamitis, recruited 12 healthy volunteers to test several aspects of vision while in a driving simulator, both before and after having their pupils dilated. Potamitis is from the Academic Unit of Ophthalmology at the Birmingham and Midland Eye Center (U.K.). It found that for some people, in some situations, it may be safe to drive while dilated. The main reason to have the pupils dilated is so the eye doctor can better see the nerves and blood vessels in the back of the eye, Rohit Varma, MD, tells WebMD.
Dilation is an integral part of any complete eye exam. You should expect to be dilated at your exam. Dilation mostly affects near vision and most people can drive afterwards without any problems. However, if you are unsure or feel uncomfortable, we recommend that you bring a driver with you.
Report Abuse. You really should wait a while before driving, dilated eyes are much more sensitive to light than those that aren't dilated. If you have to leave the office right after your examination, perhaps your eye doctor will give you some throw-away shades...otherwise, have somebody drop you off and pick you up. 
I work at an optometrists office and we dilate every patient every year. Oh yea and also it depends on the color of your eyes to how much and how long you will be dilated, lighter eyes dilate more and for longer and muddy eyes not as much and shorter time. It is normal to suggest you don't drive, after dilation. But it does depend on your normal delirium. 