Horizontal Positional Accuracy Report: The horizontal accuracy of the DEM is expressed as an estimated RMSE (root mean square error). The estimate of the RMSE is based upon horizontal accuracy tests of the DEM source materials which are selected as equal to or less than intended horizontal RMSE error of the DEM. Vertical Positional Accuracy Report: The vertical RMSE statistic is used to describe the vertical accuracy of a DEM, encompassing both random and systematic errors introduced during production of the data. The RMSE is encoded in element number 5 of record of the DEM.
Positional accuracy is the quantifiable value that represents the positional difference between two geospatial layers or between a geospatial layer and reality. An example of this is the comparison of the location of roads in a feature class versus their location in a TIFF image. If the feature class and the TIFF are using the same projection, you can assess the positional difference between the feature class and the TIFF. The Positional Accuracy Assessment tool (PAAT) allows you to compare two items to assess a data layer's accuracy in relation to a reference layer of known or unknown accuracy.
The Standard states that Relative Positional Accuracy may be tested by (1) comparing the relative location of points in a survey as measured by an independent survey of higher accuracy, or (2) the results of a minimally constrained, correctly weighted least square adjustement of the survey. The maximum allowable accuracy per the standard is 0.07 feet and 50 ppm. The standard requires that an ALTA/ASCM Land Title Survey contain a certificate to this extent. TPC provides two such certificates in the \Blocks\ALTA\ folder.
Moreover, the unit will explain the quantitative method to quantify the positional accuracy. Other topics such as cartographic quality and resolution and scale of map, which affect the positional accuracy, will also be discussed. Positional Accuracy Objectives (Entry) This unit will explain the basic concept of Positional Accuracy of feature geometry.
Vertical Positional Accuracy: Vertical Positional Accuracy Report: The vertical RMSE statistic is used to describe the vertical accuracy of a DEM, encompassing both random and systematic errors introduced during production of the data. The RMSE is encoded in element number 5 of record of the DEM.
To assess positional accuracy, two layers are required: the layer whose accuracy you want to evaluate and another layer that can be used as a point of reference. The uncertainty is defined as the circular error (CE) for two-dimensional features and linear error (LE) for three-dimensional features. If the feature class and the TIFF are using the same projection, you can assess the positional difference between the feature class and the TIFF. The Positional Accuracy Assessment tool (PAAT) allows you to compare two items to assess a data layer's accuracy in relation to a reference layer of known or unknown accuracy.
Type: text. Domain: free text. Vertical Positional Accuracy -- 2.4.2. an estimate of accuracy of the vertical positions in the data set. Compound. Vertical Positional Accuracy Report -- 2.4.2.1. an explanation of the accuracy of the vertical coordinate measurements and a description of the tests used.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dilution of precision (DOP), or geometric dilution of precision (GDOP), is a term used in satellite navigation and geomatics engineering to specify the additional multiplicative effect of navigation satellite geometry on positional measurement precision. Understanding the Geometric Dilution of Precision (GDOP) with a simple example. In A someone has measured the distance to two landmarks, and plotted their point as the intersection of two circles with the measured radius.
Accuracy. The accuracy is the difference between the actual position of a mechanical system and the expected position. It is typically specified in micron or arcsec per given travel for a deviation of ±3sigma. For example, an accuracy of ±3mm (±20arcsec), at ±3sigma, per 300mm (300°) travel means that if the axis moves to a position 300 mm (300°) away from the current position, the final position will end between 299.997 (300.0056 deg) and 300.003 (299.9944 deg), 99.7% of the time.