It usually takes 5 to 14 days to recover from a grade one ankle sprain. This is when slight stretching and damage occurs to the ligaments. With a grade one sprain, there is slight instability, pain, swelling, joint stiffness, and trouble walking. Grade two sprains can take 4 to 6 weeks to heal. This involves partial tearing of the ligaments. Signs of a grade two sprain include instability, moderate to severe pain, swelling, stiffness and possible bruising. Grade three sprains can take 8 to 12 weeks to heal. This is a complete tear of the ligament. With grade three sprains, there is a lot of instability within the joint, severe pain when the injury occurs and no pain after injury, severe swelling and excessive bruising
As you can imagine, that's going to really impact just how long it takes for that ligament to heal itself back together. General rule of thumb, say for ankle sprain, perhaps a grade one: two, three weeks; grade two: four weeks; and a grade three: sometimes four, six weeks -- sometimes longer. Comments. . Answer: Well, when considering how long it might take for a sprain to heal, you need to consider that there are varying degrees of sprain injuries. There's a grade one, where the ligament that holds the joint in place is stretched
In more severe sprains, you may hear and/or feel something tear, along with a pop or snap. You will probably have extreme pain at first and will not be able to walk or even put weight on your foot. Usually, the more pain and swelling you have, the more severe your ankle sprain is and the longer it will take to heal. 1 | 2 | 3. 1|2|3. This damages the ligaments on the inside of the ankle. An ankle sprain can range from mild to severe, depending on how badly the ligament is damaged and how many ligaments are injured. With a mild sprain, the ankle may be tender, swollen, and stiff. But it usually feels stable, and you can walk with little pain.
Report Abuse. A sprained ankle can take from 2 weeks to 2 months to feel completely healthy again. Some sprains will actually take longer than a broken ankle to heel. This is all dependant on how bad you twisted and pulled the tendons and ligaments in your ankle. There are 2 very important steps to recovering quickly and fully from a sprained ankle. Best Answer: ya as a football player i sprain my ankle all the time. but the key to how long it takes to recover is how bad the sprain is. the best treatment for any sprain is simple stretches. by rotating and bending your ankle with out any pressure u can start loosening the muscles and speed up the recovery.
Most grade 2 sprains take four to six weeks to heal. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely. Physicians usually immobilize the joint and prescribe physical therapy, just as with a grade 2 sprain.
Grade 3 Sprain. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely. Physicians usually immobilize the joint and prescribe physical therapy, just as with a grade 2 sprain.
Home Treatment. Ankle sprains take an average of 6 weeks to heal but can take can up to 4 months, depending on the severity. An ankle brace, air stirrup, hiking boots, or other form of ankle support should be worn during this time to protect the ligaments. Some people who have repeated or severe sprains can develop long-term joint pain and weakness. Treating a sprained ankle can help prevent ongoing ankle problems. Rehabilitation (rehab) exercises for an ankle sprain can be done at home to promote proper healing and prevent chronic pain and instability.