This thin, most superficial layer of the skin forms the interface with the external environment and has special protective functions. 1  Melanocytes. 2  These cells produce a dark pigment called melanin which contributes to skin color and provides UV protection. Melanocytes and Langerhans cells are other important cells found in the epidermis which have special functions. Dermis. The dermis consists mostly of connective tissue and is much thicker than the epidermis.
Scattered among the keratinocytes in the epidermis are melanocytes, cells that produce a dark pigment called melanin. This pigment gives color to the skin and protects it from the sun s ultraviolet rays. After being produced in the melanocytes, packets of melanin called melanosomes transfer to the keratinocytes. Anatomy Of The Skin. The skin consists of an outer, protective layer (epidermis) and an inner, living layer (dermis). The top layer of the epidermis is composed of dead cells containing keratin, the horny protein that also makes up hair and nails. Skin, outer body covering of an animal.
The epidermis has several strata (layers) that contain four cell types. Keratinocytes produce keratin, a protein that gives skin its strength and flexibility and waterproofs the skin surface. Melanocytes produce melanin, the dark pigment that gives skin its color. Merkel's cells are probably involved with touch reception. The deepest layer of the epidermis, the stratum basale, is a single layer of cells resting on a basement membrane (layer between the dermis and epidermis). The stratum basale cells divide continuously. As new cells form, older ones are pushed toward
1 These cells produce a dark pigment called melanin which contributes to skin color and provides UV protection. 2  They are located at the bottom of the epidermis. 3  Dendritic (Langerhans) cells. 4  These cells are involved in the epidermal immune system. Melanocytes and Langerhans cells are other important cells found in the epidermis which have special functions. Dermis. The dermis consists mostly of connective tissue and is much thicker than
Melanocytes /mɛˈlaenɵsaɪt/ mɛˈlænɵsaɪt are-melanin producing cells located in the bottom (layer the stratum) basale of the'skin s, epidermis the middle layer of the (eye the), uvea the inner, ear, meninges, bones and. Heart melanin is the pigment primarily responsible for skin. color Melanocytes /mɛˈlaenɵsaɪt/ mɛˈlænɵsaɪt are-melanin producing cells located in the bottom (layer the stratum) basale of the'skin s, epidermis the middle layer of the (eye the), uvea the inner, ear, meninges, bones and. heart
Specilized cells in the epidermis called melanocytes produce melanin, a dark pigment that provides skin color. Melanin absorbs ultraviolet radiation in sunlight and preventing mutations in the DNA of skin cells and other damaging effects. Differences in skin color result from differences in the amount of melanin that melanocytes produce and the distribution and size of pigment granules. Skin color is genetically determined.
Epidermis. The epidermis is the outermost layer of the skin. It is primarily made up of cells called Keratinocytes, which are stacked on top of each other, forming several sub-layers. Other cells found in the epidermis are Melanocytes and Dendritic cells. 
Skin color is due primarily to the presence of a pigment called melanin, which is controlled by at least 6 genes. Both light and dark complexioned people have melanin. However, two forms are produced--pheomelanin, which is red to yellow in color, and eumelanin, which is dark brown to black. In lighter skin, color is also affected by red cells in blood flowing close to the skin. To a lesser extent, the color is affected by the presence of fat under the skin and carotene, a reddish-orange pigment in the skin. Hair color is also due to the presence of melanin.
Through a process called melanogenesis, these cells produce melanin, which is a pigment found in the skin, eyes, and hair. This melanogenesis leads to a long-lasting pigmentation, which is in contrast to the pigmentation that originates from oxidation of already-existing melanin. Melanocytes /mɛˈlaenɵsaɪt/ mɛˈlænɵsaɪt are-melanin producing cells located in the bottom (layer the stratum) basale of the'skin s, epidermis the middle layer of the (eye the), uvea the inner, ear, meninges, bones and. heart
Melanin is normally located in the epidermis, or outer skin layer. It is produced at the base of the epidermis by specialized cells called melanocytes. These cells have photosensitive receptors, similar to those in the eye, that detect ultraviolet radiation from the sun and other sources. In lighter skin, color is also affected by red cells in blood flowing close to the skin. To a lesser extent, the color is affected by the presence of fat under the skin and carotene, a reddish-orange pigment in the skin. Hair color is also due to the presence of melanin.