The oldest governing body for Taekwondo is the Korea Taekwondo Association (KTA) which was formed in 1959 by a collaborative effort by representatives from the nine original kwans, or martial arts schools, in Korea. In ITF-style taekwondo, the word used for forms is teul; the specific set of teul used by the ITF is called Chang Hon. Choi defined 24 Chang Hon teul. The names and symbolism of the Chang Hon teul refer to elements of Korean history, culture and religious philosophy.
By Ronald A. Southwick. The name Taekwondo is derived from the Korean word Tae meaning foot, Kwon meaning fist and Do meaning way of. So, literally Taekwondo means the way of the foot and fist. The name Taekwondo, however, has only been used since 1955 while the arts' roots began 2,300 years ago in Korea. Known as a martial art and way of life, the evolution of Taekwondo was a direct result of the happenings in Korea long ago, and knowledge of the history is an important step in understanding Taekwondo.
Belt Pattern Meaning/Philosophy WHITE BELT SONGAHM 1 18 moves Pure and without knowledge of Songahm Taekwondo. As with the Pine Tree, the seed must now be planted and nourished to develop strong roots.. The student has no knowledge of Songahm Taekwondo and begins with a clean and pure slate. 
Although the term martial art has become associated with the fighting arts of eastern Asia, it originally referred to the combat systems of Europe as early as the 1550s. The term is derived from Latin, and means arts of Mars , the Roman god of war. Some authors have argued that fighting arts or fighting systems would be more appropriate on the basis that many martial arts were never martial in the sense of being used or created by professional warriors.
In Korean, derived from hanja, tae (跆) means to kick or strike with the foot; kwon (拳) means hand, fist, or punching; and do (道) means art or way of life. Hence, taekwondo is loosely translated as the way of the foot and fist. It can also be translated hand and foot art.. Taekwondo is regarded as the skill of technique of pursuing a righteous life. Taekwon means fighting skills, and Do means meditation. When asking What is Taekwondo?. we must see that the answer lies in the practical and philosophical activities used to practice this martial art.
Martial arts are codified systems and traditions of combat practices, which are practiced for a variety of reasons: self-defense, competition, physical health and fitness, entertainment, as well as mental, physical, and spiritual development. The term is derived from Latin, and means arts of Mars , the Roman god of war. Some authors have argued that fighting arts or fighting systems would be more appropriate on the basis that many martial arts were never martial in the sense of being used or created by professional warriors.
Tae Kwon Do (also known as Taekwondo) is the art of self defense that originated in Korea. It is recognized as one of the oldest forms of martial arts in the world, reaching back over 2,000 years. The name was selected for its appropriate description of the art: Tae (foot), Kwon (hand), Do (art).
Meaning Of Taegeuk Poomse (Patterns) Poomse: Taekwondo poomse (pattern) is essentially a routine with a theme. It is a combination of techniques of block and attack performed consecutively while moving in certain directions. 
Taekwondo (/ˈtaɪˈkwɒnˈdoʊ/) is a Korean martial art with a heavy emphasis on kicks. Taekwondo was developed during the 1940s and 1950s by various Korean martial artists, as a blend of the indigenous Korean fighting styles of taekkyeon, gwonbeop, and subak, with influence from foreign martial arts as well. In ITF-style taekwondo, the word used for forms is teul; the specific set of teul used by the ITF is called Chang Hon. Choi defined 24 Chang Hon teul. The names and symbolism of the Chang Hon teul refer to elements of Korean history, culture and religious philosophy.