1 Have your water softener bypass the water supply that goes to your kitchen tap (or wherever you normally get your drinking water). 2  Try a salt free water conditioner to address your hard water problems rather than a traditional salt-using system. 3  Buy bottled water from the store (in a reusable container, please). Why There’s a Debate Over Softened Water. Conventional water softeners use salt to extract the problematic minerals from hard water. Unfortunately, the process leaves behind sodium in place of those hard water minerals. The harder your water is, the more sodium is added to it through the softening process.
Furthermore, there is also no need to worry about a water softener depriving your water of its essential minerals. It will only remove minerals that can cause the water to be hard and damaging to pipes, such as magnesium, calcium, and iron. In general, there are no significant or immediate health risks that result from drinking softened water.
The minerals in the water are what make it considered “hard water.” If you’ve ever noticed that soap wasn’t bubbling or dissolving in your water, this would be indicative hard water that was full of minerals. A water softener can improve the quality of your laundry, cleaning, bathing, and steam-powered appliances. It will only remove minerals that can cause the water to be hard and damaging to pipes, such as magnesium, calcium, and iron. In general, there are no significant or immediate health risks that result from drinking softened water.
If this trace amount of sodium is a concern, a waterboss water softener is capable of using potassium chloride to regenerate the water softener. The addition of a Reverse Osmosis drinking water system to your water softener can be installed to give you sodium free drinking water. Water from a water softener doesn't rinse the soap off. Showering in soft water makes my skin feel slippery. Water softeners are too expensive to operate. Actually, a water softener is the only household appliance that can save you money by using it. Using soft water can reduce water-heating bills up to 29%. Soft water also requires 50% to 75% less detergent to do laundry and dishes
In summary, softened water is generally safe to drink, but if you prefer the taste and texture of distilled water, installing a water softener with a drinking water treatment unit can help you experience the benefits of softened water without sacrificing your kitchen sink. Share this entry. It will only remove minerals that can cause the water to be hard and damaging to pipes, such as magnesium, calcium, and iron. In general, there are no significant or immediate health risks that result from drinking softened water.
In most cases you should never drink soft water from a water softener. By its very nature a water softener is designed to replace hardness with sodium. It is called a one for one ionic exchange. For example if you have 200 PPM of hardness it will be converted to at least 200 PPM of sodium. The main point is this: If the water is high in hardness then once it goes through the water softener it will be high in sodium. If it is not high in hardness then you did not need a water softener to begin with. DON'T drink water that comes out of a water softener. Even if it should be below the MCL for safe drinking water, most people do not want unnecessary amounts of sodium in their drinking water. You don't have to take our word for it either
THE SOLUTION: If the water is hard enough that you need a water softener then you must drink bottled water which is very expensive and often the bottled water is of low quality. Or you can add reverse osmosis ($199.87) to the kitchen sink and refrigerator to remove the sodium. The main point is this: If the water is high in hardness then once it goes through the water softener it will be high in sodium. If it is not high in hardness then you did not need a water softener to begin with. DON'T drink water that comes out of a water softener. Even if it should be below the MCL for safe drinking water, most people do not want unnecessary amounts of sodium in their drinking water. You don't have to take our word for it either
According to the U.S. Geological Survey, more than 85 percent of the United States geography has hard water. While many consumers use a water softener so they can enjoy the benefits of soft water, there is some confusion about whether softened water is safe to drink. It is unlikely that a physician would discourage anyone from drinking softened water. Because water softeners are designed to address the problem of hard water and do not remove other water contaminents such as organic matter, many of our water softener customers also use a drinking water system.