Allantoin-Based Products That May Benefit Your Skin. There are a number of chemical compounds that are good for the skin, and one of the most versatile in allantoin. This compound can be found naturally in most animals and plants, and is also synthesized in laboratories when being used for commercial purposes. Using Cosmetics with Allantoin. Those with sensitivities to cosmetics may benefit from the use of products that contain allantoin. Many different cosmetic products contain this non-irritating compound, such as concealer, foundation, and lipstick, among others.
About ALLANTOIN: Allantoin is a naturally ocurring nitrogenous compound used as a skin conditioning agent. This ingredient may be derived from animals. From PETA's Caring Consumer: Uric acid from cows, most mammals. Also in many plants (especially comfrey). 
allantoin. [əlan′tō·in]. a chemical compound (5-ureidohydantoin), C 4 H 6 N 4 O 3, that occurs as a white crystallizable substance found in many plants and in the allantoic and amniotic fluids and fetal urine of primates. It is also present in the urine of mammals other than primates as a product of purine metabolism. 
The diureide (a chain of compound nitrogenous substances) of glyoxylic acid, allantoin is an oxidation product of uric acid that can form crystals and is present in allantoic as well as amniotic fluids in the fetal urine of animals, including humans, and also in several plants. 
Allantoin is a white odorless powder. Other Allantoin containing compounds that may be used in cosmetics and personal care products, include the Allanotin salt of vitamin C, Allantoin Ascorbate, and the Allantoin salt of vitamin B7, Allantoin Biotin. Allantoin is also found in many plants, such as comfrey, horse chestnut and bearberry. Although Allantoin can be isolated from these plants, most Allantoin used in cosmetics and personal care products is made from urea and glyoxylic acid.
Description. Allantoin is a moisturizing, healing, anti-irritating, soothing, keratolytic and non-toxic chemical compound useful in cosmetic, dermatological and veterinary preparation. It is an effective cell-proliferating and healing agent that stimulates good tissue formation. Allantoin is an anti-aging ingredient used in facial rejuvenation products. It is a common ingredient of skin care products. It is proven effective in soothing irritated skin, stimulates cell regeneration and moisturizes dry skin.
In humans and higher apes, the metabolic pathway for conversion of uric acid to allantoin is not present, so the former is excreted. Recombinant rasburicase is sometimes used as a drug to catalyze this metabolic conversion in patients. In fish, allantoin is broken down further (into ammonia) before excretion. Allantoin is a major metabolic intermediate in many other organisms including plants and bacteria.
Allantoin is considered to be nontoxic, nonirritating and non-allergenic. Allantoin is safe and effective in the dosage range recommended (0.5 to 2.0%) as a skin protectant. Allantoin is a unique product that is used for skin protection. Allantoin is a white, odorless, crystalline powder. Allantoin is also used to hasten the growth of new, healthy tissue
Allantoin is present in botanical extracts of the comfrey plant and in the urine of most mammals. Chemically synthesized bulk allantoin, which is chemically equivalent to natural allantoin, is safe, non-toxic, compatible with cosmetic raw materials and meets CTFA and JSCI requirements. Allantoin is a major metabolic intermediate in many other organisms including plants and bacteria.