District Attorney Oath Requirement: Although there is no specific statutory requirement, it is an elected office, therefore, before entering upon the duties of office, a district attorney is required to take the official oath. T EX. C ONST ., art. XVI, §1(a). Bond Requirements: Before entering on the duties of office, a person who is elected to the office of constable must execute a bond with two or more good and sufficient suretie s or a solvent surety company authorized to do business in this state.
Oaths of Public Officials. The oath of office to be taken by all but a few public officers in West Virginia, from a city council member to the Governor of the State, is prescribed by the West Virginia Constitution. Article IV, Section 5 specifies the terms of the oath to be taken: The oaths of county officials and magistrates are filed with the clerk of the county commission, except that original oaths of members of the board of education are filed with the secretary of the board (the superintendent of schools) and a certified copy with the clerk of the county commission.
The New York State Constitution and Public Officers Law require public officers, including elected officials, to take and file an oath of office. Public officers who are State officers will also need to file a related certification pursuant to the Public Officers Law. The Civil Service Law requires employees of the State to take and file an oath of office or an alternative statement. State employees are also required to file a related certification pursuant to the Public Officers Law. The requirements for public officers and State employees are described below.
In other words, the Constitution guarantees all federal and state officials the right to avoid taking oaths of office. Further, the Constitution guarantees that there will be no religious tests for federal office. Nothing in this section requires that the oath of office be taken on the Bible. Neither do the words so help me God appear in the oath. While Presidents often include this phrase in their inauguration ceremonies, the words are customary; they are not required by the Constitution and have no legal significance.
Each public officer shall take his oath of office within 30 days after receipt of the commission. All state officers shall file their original oath of office with the secretary of state. All parish officials shall file an original with the secretary of state and a second original with the clerk of court in the parish where they are elected. Information on the oath of office is entered into our database of elected and appointed officials, including name, address and telephone number(s).
An oath of office is an oath or affirmation a person takes before undertaking the duties of an office, usually a position in government or within a religious body, although such oaths are sometimes required of officers of other organizations. In an inauguration ceremony a new Spanish Prime Minister takes an oath or affirmation of office over an open Constitution, which may be next to a cross and a Bible, and before the King of Spain and other dignitaries.
In Costa Rica, the oath of office is administered to the President-elect on Inauguration Day, and to all other public officials on the day of the undertaking of their duties. The oath of office for the President of Costa Rica is administered to him, or her, by the President of the Asamblea Legislativa de Costa Rica. In an inauguration ceremony a new Spanish Prime Minister takes an oath or affirmation of office over an open Constitution, which may be next to a cross and a Bible, and before the King of Spain and other dignitaries.
Public Officers. Oath of Office. Members of the State Legislature and all public officers, executive and judicial, are required to take and sign the oath provided by Article XIII, Section 1 of the New York State Constitution before they commence the duties of their office. The Civil Service Law requires employees of the State to take and file an oath of office or an alternative statement. State employees are also required to file a related certification pursuant to the Public Officers Law. The requirements for public officers and State employees are described below.
In Utah, state officers are required by both the federal and state constitutions to take an oath of office. Once administered the Oath of Office, an official should check with the agency that administered the oath and the official’s own agency to see if there are specific procedures in place to ensure the oath is properly filed with the State Archives.