3. As a result... the DNA-hormone complex produces mRNA molecules. the receptor-hormone complex binds with a mRNA molecule to produce a DNA molecule. the hormone-mRNA complex enters the cytoplasm and produces proteins. the receptor-hormone complex binds with a DNA molecule to produce a mR
The cell membrane, being exposed to the outside environment, is an important site of cell-cell communication. As such, a large variety of protein receptors and identification proteins, such as antigens, are present on the surface of the membrane.
The cell membrane is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively-permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. It consists of the phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins.
A comparison of membrane vs. intracellular estrogen receptor-alpha in GH(3)/B6 pituitary tumor cells using a quantitative plate immunoassay. Campbell CH, Watson CS. Department of Human Biological Chemistry and Genetics, University of Texas, Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555, USA.
As a result... the DNA-hormone complex produces mRNA molecules. the receptor-hormone complex binds with a mRNA molecule to produce a DNA molecule. the hormone-mRNA complex enters the cytoplasm and produces proteins. the receptor-hormone complex binds with a DNA molecule to produce a mR
The plasma membrane form of the estrogen receptor-alpha (mER-alpha) is involved in rapid estrogen-induced prolactin release from GH(3)/B6 rat pituitary tumor cells and can be detected immunocytochemically using several estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) antibodies.
For a signal molecule to bind with an intracellular receptor it must be able to pass through the cellular membrane. Generally signal molecules that enter the cell are nonpolar and fat soluble. These signal molecules can pass through the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane.
As soon as the ligand binds to the receptor, the receptor changes conformation (the protein that makes up the channel changes shape), and as they do so they create a small opening that is big enough for ions to travel through. Therefore, ionotropic receptors are “ligand-gated transmembrane ion channels”.