Reservoir. The reservoir of an infectious agent is the habitat in which the agent normally lives, grows, and multiplies. Reservoirs include humans, animals, and the environment. The reservoir may or may not be the source from which an agent is transferred to a host.
the host preferred by a parasite. primary host. definitive host. reservoir host. an animal (or species) that is infected by a parasite, and which serves as a source of infection for humans or another species. host risk factors. epidemiological factors contributing to the development of a disease and which are contributed by the host.
Reservoir of infection: Any person, animal, plant, soil or substance in which an infectious agent normally lives and multiplies. The reservoir typically harbors the infectious agent without injury to itself and serves as a source from which other individuals can be infected.
Human reservoirs. Many common infectious diseases have human reservoirs. Diseases that are transmitted from person to person without intermediaries include the sexually transmitted diseases, measles, mumps, streptococcal infection, and many respiratory pathogens.
reservoir host, a nonhuman host that serves as a means of sustaining an infectious organism as a potential source of human infection. Wild monkeys are reservoir hosts for the yellow fever virus, which can spread from the jungle to infect humans.
Best Answer: Human reservoirs are people with active infections of a communicable disease. Carriers can remain asymptomatic and infective for years, much like AIDS carriers. Some carriers go through the stages of disease while others may never develop illness at all.
Animal reservoirs are animals that serve as a reservoir of the pathogen, much like a carrier vessel. These pathogens care capable of infecting humans with diseases called zoonoses or zoonotic diseases. Examples are rabies-infected dogs, mad cow disease-infected cattle.
4. (Science: microbiology) A reservoir host or reservoir of infection, an alternate or passive host or carrier that harbours pathogenic organisms, without injury to itself and serves as a source from which other individuals can be infected. Origin: F. Reservoir, LL.