[ 1 syll. kye, ky-e ] The baby boy name Kye is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as K AY †. Kye is derived from Latin and Celtic origins. Kye is a variant of the name Kai (Frisian, Dutch, Finnish, German, Scandinavian, and Welsh). Kye is also a variant of the name Kyle (English and Gaelic). Kye is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. In 2012, among the group of boy names directly linked to Kye, Kyle was the most popular.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kye and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kye and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kye. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kye, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Gaelic Meaning: The name Kye is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kye is: A place-name referring to the narrows; a wood or a church. Irish Meaning: The name Kye is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kye is: A place-name referring to the narrows; a wood or a church.
Kye Name Meaning. English: unexplained; possibly a respelling of Kay 6, a shortened form of Scottish and Irish McKay.Korean: There is only one Chinese character and one clan for the Kye family name. 
Kye /kye/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Kye's name origins are Welsh, Scandinavian, Greek and Gaelic, and the meaning of the name Kye is keeper of the keys; earth; narrow, straight. Kye is a variant transcription of Kai (Welsh, Scandinavian, Greek): variation of Kay. Kye is also a form of Kyle (Gaelic). Kreatif forms: Kakye, Kyeby, Kyeka
From 1880 to 2014, the Social Security Administration has recorded 2,936 babies born with the name Kye in the United States. That's more than enough Kyes to occupy the territory of Svalbard and Jan Mayen (Norway) with an estimated population of 2,495 (as of March 1, 2010). According to the 2008 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Kye is not a popular baby boy's name in New York. Imagine that, only 5 babies in New York have the same name as you in 2008. Across the entire United States a total of only 139 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Meaning of Kye. Irish name. In Irish, the name Kye means-A place-name referring to the narrows; a wood or a church.. Other origins for the name Kye include-Irish, American, Gaelic.The name Kye is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-A place-name referring to the narrows; a wood or a church. Origin-Irish.
[ 1 syll. kye, ky-e ] The baby girl name Kye is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced as K AY †. Kye's language of origin is Hawaiian and Australian. Kye is a form of the Scandinavian, English, Hawaiian, and German Kai. Kye is also a form of the English and Australian Kylie. Kye is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
The different meanings of the name Kye are: The meaning of the name “Kye” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kye. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kye, spread the love and share this with your friends.