Dip-slip movement occurs when the hanging wall moved predominantly up or down relative to the footwall. If the motion was down, the fault is called a normal fault, if the movement was up, the fault is called a reverse fault. Downward movement is normal because we normally would expect the hanging wall to slide downward along the foot wall because of the pull of gravity.
Monoclines Although we will discuss folds and faults separately, in the real world folds are generally closely associated withfaults. Examples of this close association are broad, regional features called monoclines. Monoclines are large,step-like folds in otherwise horizontal sedimentary strata. Strike-Slip Faults Faults in which the movement is horizontal and parallel to the trend, or strike, of the fault surface are calledstrike-slip faults, as shown in Figure 6D. Because of their large size and linear nature, many strike-slip faultsproduce a trace that is visible over a great distance.
On the other hand, not all major fault traces seem to be associated with large numbers of epicenters, and some clusters of epicenters do not lie along any major fault trace. There is a noticeable correlation between the two sets (epicenters and fault traces), but that correlation is far from one-to-one. Given that the size of an earthquake depends on the amount of fault rupture involved, in makes sense that large earthquakes must occur along large faults, so there should be a strong correlation, as only the largest fault zones are shown on the map.
Reverse Faults and Thrust Faults A reverse fault is a faultin which the hanging wall block moves up relative to the footwall block.Reverse faults are high-angle faults with dips greater than 45°. Thrustfaults are reverse faults with dips of less than 45°. Strike-Slip Faults Faults in which the movement is horizontaland parallel to the trend,or strike,of the fault surface are called strike-slip faults, as shown in Figure 9D.Because of their large size and linearnature,many strike-slip faults produce a trace that is visible over a greatdistance.
Thrust faults are reverse faults with dips of less than 45°.Because the hanging wall block moves up and over the footwall block, reverse and thrust faults result in ashortening of the crust, as shown in Figure 6B and 6C.Most high-angle reverse faults are small. Strike-Slip Faults Faults in which the movement is horizontal and parallel to the trend, or strike, of the fault surface are calledstrike-slip faults, as shown in Figure 6D. Because of their large size and linear nature, many strike-slip faultsproduce a trace that is visible over a great distance.
Reverse faulting reflects compressive forces squeezing a region and they are common in uplifting mountain ranges and along the coast of many regions bordering the Pacific Ocean. The largest earthquakes are generally low-angle (shallow dipping) reverse faults associated with subduction plate boundaries. If the motion was down, the fault is called a normal fault, if the movement was up, the fault is called a reverse fault. Downward movement is normal because we normally would expect the hanging wall to slide downward along the foot wall because of the pull of gravity.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Most fault movement is not directly associated with magma release. Some faults are caused by magmatic forces. These are usually closely associated with volcanoes. Besides these, so called normal faults are often associated with the extension or stretching of continents. Africa's rift valley and the American Basin and Range province are zones of extension. The stretching thins the crust and provides passageways for magma. Dikes, metal deposits, and lava eruptions can result, and they will be closely associated with faults.
Expert answered|debnjerry|Points 32701|User: Faults are generally closely associated with A. monoclines. B. anticlines. C. synclines. D. symmetrical folds. Weegy: D. Symmetrical foldsExpert answered|AwesomeGuy200|Points 970|User: A downwarped structure with a circular shape is a A. dome. B. basin. C. horst. C. horst. D. mountain belt. Weegy: A downwarped structure with a circular shape is a basin. Expert answered|debnjerry|Points 32701|User: Faults are generally closely associated with A. monoclines. B. anticlines. C. synclines. D. symmetrical folds. Weegy: Faults are generally closely associated with monoclines.
Original conversation. User: Faults are generally closely associated with A. monoclines. B. anticlines. C. synclines. D. symmetrical folds. Weegy: D. Symmetrical foldsExpert answered|AwesomeGuy200|Points 970|User: A downwarped structure with a circular shape is a A. dome. B. basin. C. horst. C. horst. D. mountain belt. Weegy: A downwarped structure with a circular shape is a basin. Expert answered|debnjerry|Points 32701|User: Faults are generally closely associated with A. monoclines. B. anticlines. C. synclines. D. symmetrical folds. Weegy: Faults are generally closely associated with monoclines.