Inheriting a disease, condition, or trait depends on the type of chromosome affected (autosomal or sex chromosome). It also depends on whether the trait is dominant or recessive. A single abnormal gene on one of the first 22 nonsex (autosomal) chromosomes from either parent can cause an autosomal disorder.
Dominant trait is a genetics term. A dominant trait is one which will be expressed if one of the parents has the gene for that trait. A recessive trait is one that will … be expressed only if both parents carry the trait.
Inheriting a specific disease, condition, or trait depends on the type of chromosome that is affected (autosomal or sex chromosome). It also depends on whether the trait is dominant or recessive. A mutation in a gene on one of the first 22 nonsex chromosomes can lead to an autosomal disorder.
A dominant allele produces a dominant phenotype in individuals who have one copy of the allele, which can come from just one parent. For a recessive allele to produce a recessive phenotype, the individual must have two copies, one from each parent.
Dominant: A genetic trait is considered dominant if it is expressed in a person who has only one copy of that gene. (In genetic terms, a dominant trait is one that is phenotypically expressed in heterozygotes). A dominant trait is opposed to a recessive trait which is expressed only when two copies of the gene are present. (In genetic terms, a recessive trait is one that is phenotypically expressed only in homozygotes). Examples of dominant disorders include: 1  Achondroplasia (a common form of dwarfism with short arms and legs),
The terms dominant and recessive describe the inheritance patterns of certain traits. That is, they describe how likely it is for a certain phenotype to pass from parent offspring.
A recessive trait is a trait that most people don't have. If a parent of a child has red hair, it is recessive but there is a greater chance because of the gene in the redheaded parent's genetic-system, may be biologically transferred to the offspring.