Qatar Airways. Qatar Airways is the state-owned flag carrier of the State of Qatar. Just as with Emirates and Etihad, Qatar Airways takes care of many things for you. Your home base will be in the capital of Qatar: Doha. You will be provided a shared apartment in Doha and you will be brought to and from the airport back to your apartment. Normal flying hours are somewhere between 80-100 hours. The basic salary for the first 6 months is QR 3600 (€733). After completing the probation period (after the first six months), the basic salary will raise to QR 4000 (€811) for the F2 position. The hourly pay per flight hour is QR 45 (€9
Anybody can help me .. what salary can expect for a beginner in Qatar Airways commercial position.. Hi Monu, After negotiation, Qatar Airways is giving me a basic of QR8,500. (Think I'm in a Grade 6 position only). Not sure how the salary scale is like for rest of the other grades ...
Glassdoor has salaries, tips, bonuses and hourly wages submitted anonymously by 2 qatar airways employees. 1  Salaries by Job. 2  Salaries by Company. 3  Salaries by City. 4  Reviews by Company. 5  Interview Questions by Job. 6  Interviews by Company. 7  Benefits by Company. 8  Jobs by Title. 9  Jobs by Company. 10  Jobs by City. 
About Your Job: Qatar Airways is currently in need of type rated and current Boeing First Officers that would be able to join us in 2014. You would be joining the worlds best airline as our fleet and route network grows and expands on an unprecedented scale over the coming years.
Salaries in Qatar. According to 2014 Gulf Business Salary Survey, Qatar is the second best paying nation in the GCC in terms of average salaries, after Saudi Arabia. The salaries in Qatar were 11.68 percent more than that in the UAE, with an average of $11,473 per month. Salary forecast for 2015. The Gulf Business Salary Survey has revealed that Qatar is the second best paying nation in the GCC after Saudi Arabia, while the latest figures from Aon Hewitt Global Salary Increase Survey indicate a strong and growing economy.
Hi. Anybody can help me .. what salary can expect for a beginner in Qatar Airways commercial position.. 1  Share: Share. Hi Monu, After negotiation, Qatar Airways is giving me a basic of QR8,500. (Think I'm in a Grade 6 position only). Not sure how the salary scale is like for rest of the other grades ...
The monthly average salary in Qatar has increased by 10 percent in comparison to the previous year. According to Qatar Statistics Authority (QSA) Labour Force Survey for third quarter of 2014, average monthly wages in Qatar was QR10,761, marking an increase of 10 percent from the same period in previous year. Salary forecast for 2015. The Gulf Business Salary Survey has revealed that Qatar is the second best paying nation in the GCC after Saudi Arabia, while the latest figures from Aon Hewitt Global Salary Increase Survey indicate a strong and growing economy.
TSM. what will be the salary and package for a grade 5 position at Qatar Airways. potemkin. hello, have been offered a position as a Senior Officer with Qatar Airways, with a salary of QAR 13,300/month + QAR 6000 as accomodation. The accommodation will be provided by the company and the amount of QAR 6000/month indicates what my max eligibility is, per month on the housing. Qatar Airways has a questionable employee retension reputation, which is a sgood as nonexistant, So if you are better paid in OZ then forget about chucking all that and getting your self in to a compay with the lest employee satisfaction. Pls refer all the previous posts on QL for further info.
The monthly salaries in Qatar during the period 2014-15 have been in the range QR87,000 (maximum), QR17,144 (average), QR14,000 (median) and QR1200 (minimum). Salary forecast for 2015. The Gulf Business Salary Survey has revealed that Qatar is the second best paying nation in the GCC after Saudi Arabia, while the latest figures from Aon Hewitt Global Salary Increase Survey indicate a strong and growing economy.