A water garden is a pond that allows plants to grow. This is an attractive backyard feature, because it includes running water, and the bright colors and variety of plants. These gardens can be fairly easy to maintain, as long as they are in the right conditions. 
Introduction. A pond is a body of freshwater smaller than a lake. Ponds are naturally formed by a depression in the ground filling and retaining water. Streams or spring water is usually fed into these bodies. 
Water Plants. Water plants are widely considered the best way to enhance water features. Sometimes called aquatic plants, there is a water plant for virtually every type of water feature, from the smallest tabletop fountains to multi-level streams and expansive ponds. 
A pond is a body of standing water, either natural or artificial, that is usually smaller than a lake. They may arise naturally in floodplains as part of a river system, or they may be somewhat isolated depressions (examples include vernal pools and prairie potholes). Researchers for the British charity Pond Conservation have defined a pond to be 'a man-made or natural waterbody which is between 1 m 2 and 20,000 m 2 in area (2 ha or ~5 acres), which holds water for four months of the year or more.' Other European biologists have set the upper size limit at 5 ha (12 acres).
As low as $548.00. Every pond water garden, whether plants-only or stocked, benefits by some form of water circulation system to stay clean, healthy, and algae free. At the heart of this system is the pump which moves the water. From there, your options are limitless. 
A pond is a sure landscape decoration that brings charm and beauty to the outdoors. There are a few types of ponds that you can build in your garden from sophisticated geometric to natural-looking ones. A pond can also be practical and serve as a garden of its own or a natural swimming pool.
Aquatic Biologists. Call: (800) 442-6648. Types of ponds are as varied and unique as the individuals that build them. Once you've decided a pond is in your future, it is important to determine what you will use your pond for before building or buying. Aquatic Biologists, Inc has assembled general information regarding the most common types of ponds.
A water garden in a private residence. Water gardens, also known as aquatic gardens, are a type of man-made water feature. They can be defined as any interior or exterior landscape or architectural element whose primary purpose is to house, display, or propagate a particular species or variety of aquatic plant. 
To start with, a pond is usually smaller than a lake. A pond usually has mostly still water, while a lake may have currents. Ponds are overall much more shallow than lakes, which can be very deep. Ponds may be fed by a small stream, whereas a lake is usually fed by several streams. The water temperature of a pond is usually the same throughout, while a lake may have layers of different temperatures in its depths. Lastly, ponds have more plant life than lakes.
Main Types of Ponds. Building a pond can be as easy as filling a bowl with water but it also requires maintenance especially if it has fish and plants in it. But whatever type of the pond you choose for your garden it will definitely be a sight to see. There are a few types of ponds that you can build in your garden from sophisticated geometric to natural-looking ones. A pond can also be practical and serve as a garden of its own or a natural swimming pool.