Salt hydrolysis. It is defined as the process in which a salt reacts with water to give back the acid and the base. Hydrolysis is the reverse of neutralisation, Salt + Water ® Acid + Base The general equation for the hydrolysis of a salt (BA) may be written as : This is called anionic hydrolysis. Hence salt hydrolysis may be defined as the reaction of the cation or the anion of the salt with water to produce acidic or basic solution.
This reaction is of a salt of a weak base (NOT the base) undergoing hydrolysis, the reaction with water. The salt in this case is HB + Cl¯ and it is reacting with the water. Remember, the most common specific example would be ammonium chloride (NH. I. Salts of Weak Acids. In general, all salts of weak acids behave the same, therefore we can use a generic salt to represent all salts of weak acids. Let NaA be a generic salt of a weak acid and A¯ its anion. Here are two specific examples of salts of weak acids:
This reaction is of a salt of a weak acid (NOT the acid) undergoing hydrolysis, the name for a chemical reaction with water. The salt is NaAc and it is reacting with the water. Keep in mind that the acid (HAc) does not undergo hydrolysis, the salt does. It is very important that you notice several things: I. Salts of Weak Acids. In general, all salts of weak acids behave the same, therefore we can use a generic salt to represent all salts of weak acids. Let NaA be a generic salt of a weak acid and A¯ its anion. Here are two specific examples of salts of weak acids:
It is the  hydrolysis of atriglyceride (fat) with an aqueous base such as  sodium hydroxide (NaOH). During the process,  glycerol is formed, and the fatty acidsreact with the base, converting them to  salts. These salts are called soaps, commonly used in  households. Hydrolysis is a process of breaking the bonds in a water molecule into their component gases, hydrogen and oxygen. Hydrolysis is not an acid.
Usually hydrolysis is a chemical process in which a molecule of water is added to a substance. Sometimes this addition causes both substance and water molecule to split into two parts. In such reactions, one fragment of the target molecule (or parent molecule) gains a hydrogen ion. Strong acids also undergo hydrolysis. For example, dissolving sulfuric acid (H 2 SO 4) in water is accompanied by hydrolysis to give hydronium and bisulfate, the sulfuric acid's conjugate base. For a more technical discussion of what occurs during such a hydrolysis, see Broensted–Brønsted lowry–acid base. theory
A common kind of hydrolysis occurs when a salt of a weak acid or weak base (or both) is dissolved in water. Water spontaneously ionizes into hydroxide anions and hydronium cations. The salt also dissociates into its constituent anions and cations. Strong acids also undergo hydrolysis. For example, dissolving sulfuric acid (H 2 SO 4) in water is accompanied by hydrolysis to give hydronium and bisulfate, the sulfuric acid's conjugate base. For a more technical discussion of what occurs during such a hydrolysis, see Broensted–Brønsted lowry–acid base. theory
In a hydrolysis reaction a salt reacts with water to yield the acid or base: BA + H 2 O → HA + BOH. More specifically, there are four combinations of strong and weak acids and bases: The reaction between a strong acid and a weak base also produces a salt, but water is not usually formed because weak bases tend not to be hydroxides. In this case, the water solvent will react with the cation of the salt to reform the weak base.
The reverse of the neutralization reaction is called hydrolysis. In a hydrolysis reaction a salt reacts with water to yield the acid or base: BA + H 2 O → HA + BOH. More specifically, there are four combinations of strong and weak acids and bases: 1  strong acid + strong base, e.g., HCl + NaOH → NaCl + H 2 O. The reaction between a strong acid and a weak base also produces a salt, but water is not usually formed because weak bases tend not to be hydroxides. In this case, the water solvent will react with the cation of the salt to reform the weak base.
(hīdrŏl`ĭsĭs) , chemical reaction of a compound with water, usually resulting in the formation of one or more new compounds. The most common hydrolysis occurs when a salt of a weak acid or weak base (or both) is dissolved in water. Water ionizes into negative hydroxyl ions (OH −) and positive hydrogen ions (H +), which become hydrated to form positive hydronium ions (H 3 O +). The salt also breaks up into positive and negative ions. 
(hīdrŏl`ĭsĭs) , chemical reaction of a compound with water, usually resulting in the formation of one or more new compounds. The most common hydrolysis occurs when a salt of a weak acid or weak base (or both) is dissolved in water. Water ionizes into negative hydroxyl ions (OH −) and positive hydrogen ions (H +), which become hydrated to form positive hydronium ions (H 3 O +). The hydrolysis of salts forms the basis of many important processes in the chemical industry and laboratory practice. The partial hydrolysis of tricalcium silicate causes separation of lime during the reaction of portland cement with water.