Thermite is a pyrotechnic composition of metal powder fuel and metal oxide. When ignited by heat, thermite undergoes an exothermic reduction-oxidation (redox) reaction. Most varieties are not explosive but can create brief bursts of high temperature in a small area. Copper(II) thermite reactions can be so fast that copper thermite can be considered a type of flash powder. An explosion can occur and send a spray of copper drops to considerable distance. Copper(I) thermite has industrial uses in e.g. welding of thick copper conductors ( cadwelding ).
The thermite reaction, a mixture of aluminum powder and iron(III) oxide is known as an aluminothermic reaction, that is, an incendiary mixture of aluminum with another metal such as zirconium, magnesium, titanium, or depleted uranium, which burns at very high temperatures around 2000° to about 3000°C. 
A mixture of iron oxide Fe2O3 (rust) and aluminum powder. When it is ignited the aluminum powder reacts with the O3 part of the rust in a highly exothermic reaction, the resulting product is molten iron. Thermite is commonly used in welding, because the molten iron has the ability to seep into cracks in metal. 
Thermite is a compound made of a metal oxide (commonly iron oxide) and a metal powder (aluminum) that produces a thermite reaction. A thermite reaction is not explosive when ignited, but instead creates a rapid burst of very high temperature (up to 2480 °C/4,500 °F) that can be focused on a specific area. Thermite is also be used to purify the ores of some metals. When used in this way it is called the thermite process or aluminothermic reaction. Copper thermite is used to weld thick copper wires together. This is commonly used in the telecommunications and electrical industries
Thermite is a mixture of powdered aluminum and iron(III) oxide. The thermite reaction is: 2Al (s) + Fe2O3 (s) → Al2O3 (s) + 2Fe (s) This reaction is so incredibly exotherm … ic that you should only be making it if you are a professor, a Mythbuster, or a steel worker. Thermite is a pyrotechnic composition of a metal powder and a metal oxide, which produces an aluminothermic reaction known as a thermite reaction. It is not explosive, but can … create short bursts of extremely high temperatures focused on a very small area for a short period of time.
A thermite mixture using iron (III) oxide. Thermite is a pyrotechnic composition of metal powder fuel and metal oxide. When ignited by heat, thermite undergoes an exothermic oxidation-reduction reaction. Most varieties are not explosive but can create brief bursts of high temperature in a small area. 
Thermite is a mixture in which aluminum is oxidized by another metal, commonly iron oxide, producing an exothermic reaction. This super heat evolves from the exothermic reaction between the iron oxide and the aluminum. Another benefit of welding with thermite is simplicity of the equipment. Most commonly a magnesium-lined crucible is used for holding the thermite mixture.
Also, a school favourite, the thermite reaction is guaranteed to impress-regardless of age-as the redox reaction between iron(III) oxide and aluminium produces a spectacular pyrotechnic effect and a molten ball of iron. Kit: 
The reaction is used for thermite welding, often used to join rail tracks. Thermites have also been used in metal refining, demolition of munitions, and in incendiary weapons. Some thermite-like mixtures are used as pyrotechnic initiators in fireworks. Copper(II) thermite reactions can be so fast that copper thermite can be considered a type of flash powder. An explosion can occur and send a spray of copper drops to considerable distance. Copper(I) thermite has industrial uses in e.g. welding of thick copper conductors ( cadwelding ).