exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Milym32696. Confidence votes 217. A gene mutation is a permanent change in the DNA sequence, that makes up a gene. Mutations range in size, from a single DNA building block (DNA base), to a large segment of a chromosome. Genetic mutations are not always harmful. A lot of mutations have a positive effect on the host. Some genetic mutations may help the host endure certain conditions in the envi … ronment, or eat certain food, or resist a certain superbug or virus, etc etc. However, some mutations can be harmful.
This type of mutation may alter the function of the resulting protein. Frameshift mutation This type of mutation occurs when the addition or loss of DNA bases changes a gene’s reading frame. A reading frame consists of groups of 3 bases that each code for one amino acid. A frameshift mutation shifts the grouping of these bases and changes the code for amino acids. Report Abuse. The DNA sequence of a gene can be altered in a number of ways. Gene mutations have varying effects on health, depending on where they occur and whether they alter the function of essential proteins.
Base substitutions, frameshift mutations, and short deletions or duplications can result. Genetic mutations can also occur due to exposure to standard, everyday background radiation or other radiation (such as from X-rays), or from UV light. Certain chemicals can also cause genetic mutations. The causes of genetic mutation is by radiation, chemicals, outside factors, the cell itself, cancer, and etc. Mutations can be spontaneous or induced.
Gene Mutations affect a single gene by changing its base sequence, resulting in an incorrect, or nonfunctional, protein being made. (a) A SUBSTITUTION mutation, occurs where one nucleotide base is replaced by another. These are often called “point mutations”, because a single base is changed, at one point in the gene. 
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
The types of mutations include: Missense mutation This type of mutation is a change in one DNA base pair that results in the substitution of one amino acid for another in the protein made by a gene. Nonsense mutation A nonsense mutation is also a change in one DNA base pair. Report Abuse. The DNA sequence of a gene can be altered in a number of ways. Gene mutations have varying effects on health, depending on where they occur and whether they alter the function of essential proteins.
Bio 102 Practice Problems Genetic Code and Mutation Multiple choice: Unless otherwise directed, circle the one best answer: 1. Choose the one best answer: Beadle and Tatum mutagenized Neurospora to find strains that required arginine to live. This mutation is a: A. Termination mutation B. Missense mutation C. Frameshift mutation D. Nonsense mutation E. Non-coding mutation 4. Beadle and Tatum performed a series of complex experiments that led to the idea that one gene encodes one enzyme.
Report Abuse. The causes of genetic mutation is by radiation, chemicals, outside factors, the cell itself, cancer, and etc. Mutations can be spontaneous or induced. Spontaneous and induced mutations can cause permanent changes in DNA
Genetic Mutations / Practice Exam. Exam Instructions: Choose your answers to the questions and click 'Next' to see the next set of questions. You can skip questions if you would like and come back to them later with the yellow Go To First Skipped Question button. 1 The mutation in the first person is in a non0coding region, however, the mutation in the second individual is in an essential region. 2  Both mutations are in a non-coding region, however int he first person the affected non-coding region is still important for gene function.
Mutations and New Genetic Information. If new genetic information—required to build eyes where there are none, for example—does not occur in nature, then evolution is stuck in the water. For evolutionists, the solution comes in the form of mutations. The problem is that the only beneficial mutations ever observed do not add new information to the genome. Let’s look at mutations in detail and see if they provide the information necessary to support pond-scum-to-people evolution, or support God’s Word in Genesis. Technical Research Paper Towards a Creationary Classification of Mutations. PDF Download.