Cat's claw appears to have few side effects, however, there have not been enough scientific studies on cat's claw to determine its safety. Some people have reported dizziness, nausea, and diarrhea when taking cat's claw. The diarrhea or loose stools tend to be mild and go away with continued use of the herb.
Cat's claw contains many types of plant chemicals that help reduce inflammation, such as tannins and sterols, and fight viruses, such as quinovic acid glycosides. Cat's claw preparations are made from the root and bark of the cat's claw vine.
Cat’s claw is an herbal product made from the bark and root of a vine that grows in Peru. Local native people have used it for hundreds of years to treat a variety of health problems. Although some laboratory studies have shown promising results for cat’s claw, there are very few studies in humans.
Cat’s claw is a tall woody vine “indigenous to the Amazon rainforest, with its habitat being restricted primarily to the tropical areas of South and Central America. — There are two species of Cat’s Claw, Uncaria tomentosa and Uncaria guianensis, each having different properties and uses.
1 Part Used: Although there are so many kinds of cat’s claw supplement (cat’s claw leaves, cat’s claw bark, and cat’s claw twigs) in the market only the root of Cat’s Claw gives the true health benefits.
In herbal medicine today, cat’s claw is employed around the world for many different conditions, including immune disorders, gastritis, ulcers, cancer, arthritis, rheumatism, rheumatic disorders, neuralgias, chronic inflammation of all kinds, and such viral diseases as herpes zoster (shingles).
Like all fingernails and hooves, cats’ claws are made of a protein called keratin. Claw tissue grows in layers, thanks to the quick, the living tissue at the core of the claw. The quick contains blood vessels and nerves, which you probably know all too well if you’ve clipped your cat’s nails too short.
Cat's claw is a climbing vine that grows in many countries in Central and South America, especially in the Amazon. Two species, Uncaria tomentosa and Uncaria guianensis, have traditionally been used to treat arthritis, digestive problems, and viral infections.
CAT'S CLAW Overview Information. Cat's claw is a plant. Two species of cat's claw, Uncaria tomentosa and Uncaria guianensis, are of primary interest for use as medicine. Uncaria tomentosa is most commonly used in the U.S., and Uncaria guianensis is typically used in Europe. Medicine is made from the root and bark.