If you are looking to learn more about what salicylate sensitivity is, what foods contain salicylates, what products contain salicylates and a brief overview of multiple chemical sensitivity, this is the place to start.
In severe cases, a salicylate allergy can lead to anaphylaxis, a life-threatening reaction involving a severe drop in blood pressure, loss of consciousness, and organ system failure. Avoiding products that contain salicylates is the best defense against an allergic reaction.ymptoms of a salicylate allergy vary but may include: 1  Asthma-like symptoms, such as trouble breathing and wheezing. 2  Headaches. 3  Nasal congestion. 4  Changes in skin color.
Background. Salicylates are ubiquitous agents found in hundreds of over-the-counter (OTC) medications and in numerous prescription drugs, making salicylate toxicity an important cause of morbidity and mortality.(See Epidemiology.). Salicylate is used as an analgesic agent for the treatment of mild to moderate pain.
Salicylates are found in foods from plants: most fruit, some vegetables, herbs, spices, tea and flavour additives. For example, citrus fruit, berries, tomato sauce and mint flavouring are naturally high in salicylates and so are processed foods with those flavours.ow many people are salicylate intolerant and don't realise it? Research shows that about 20% of adults with asthma1, 60% with of people with food-induced itchy rashes, headaches or migraines, 70% of people with irritable bowel symptoms2 and 75% of children with behaviour problems3 may be sensitive to salicylates.
Salicylates are compounds found in many fruits and vegetables. They are chemically related to the active ingredient in aspirin, and they can be used in the treatment of a number of medical conditions.
Salicylates are chemicals found naturally in plants and are a major ingredient in aspirin and other pain-relieving medications. They are also found in many fruits and vegetables, as well as in many common health and beauty products. Symptoms of a salicylate allergy vary but may include: 1  Asthma-like symptoms, such as trouble breathing and wheezing. 2  Headaches. 3  Nasal congestion. 4  Changes in skin color.5  Itching, skin rash, or hives. 6  Swelling of the hands, feet, and face.7  Stomach pain.
Strawberries are very high in naturally occurring salicylates. Salicylate Sensitivity. A portion of the population may be sensitive to salicylates, much in the same way one may be sensitive to a food. A person with salicylate sensitivities may be able to tolerate certain foods and products that contain the compounds but not others. Meanwhile, salicylates have a cumulative effect in the body, meaning that a person may be able to tolerate a small amount but will experience symptoms after excessive exposure. Even consuming a salicylate-containing food cooked, versus raw, can change the effect it may have.
Welcome to the Salicylate Food Guide. This list has been composed out of many lists from a variety of sources and I hope that it will be a complete and helpful guide to you. However, you will notice that some foods are not on the list.
Salicylates in food. It is not widely accepted that the effects of salicylates in medications can also be caused by salicylates in foods, probably because many so-called 'low-salicylate' diets use an outdated food list and are in fact not low in salicylates29.ow many people are salicylate intolerant and don't realise it? Research shows that about 20% of adults with asthma1, 60% with of people with food-induced itchy rashes, headaches or migraines, 70% of people with irritable bowel symptoms2 and 75% of children with behaviour problems3 may be sensitive to salicylates.