Gametogenesis is the process of forming gametes (by definition haploid, n) from diploid cells of the germ line. Spermatogenesis is the process of forming sperm cells by meiosis (in animals, by mitosis in plants) in specialized organs known as gonads (in males these are termed testes).
Meiosis is a special type of nuclear division which segregates one copy of each homologous chromosome into each new gamete. Mitosis maintains the cell's original ploidy level (for example, one diploid 2n cell producing two diploid 2n cells; one haploid n cell producing two haploid n cells; etc.).
Cells formed from mitosis are diploid and are identical (if no mutations occurred during DNA replication) to the parent cell. Cells formed during meiosis are haploid and are d … ifferent than the parent cell (due to the process of crossing over). Note that mitosis produced only 2 daughter cells whereas meiosis produces four.
Cytokinesis follows, dividing the cytoplasm of the two cells. At the conclusion of meiosis, there are four haploid daughter cells that go on to develop into either sperm or egg cells. Meiosis is a type of cell division that reduces the number of chromosomes in the parent cell by half and produces four gamete cells. This process is required to produce egg and sperm cells for sexual reproduction.
Meiosis II is a mitotic division of each of the haploid cells produced in meiosis I. During prophase II, the chromosomes condense, and a new set of spindle fibers forms.
meiosis. Meiosis II is a mitotic division of each of the haploid cells produced in meiosis I. During prophase II, the chromosomes condense, and a new set of spindle fibers forms. The chromosomes begin moving toward the equator of the cell.
While mitosis produces 2 daughter cells from each parent cell, meiosis results in 4 sex cells, or gametes in males and 1 in females. Unlike the cells created by mitosis, gametes are not identical to the parent cells. In males, meiosis is referred to as spermatogenesis because sperm cells are produced.
In meiosis diploid cells divide to produce four daughter cells each of which is haploid. It is the type of cell division required to produce gametes.