The cost of dermabrasion procedure is an important ingredient in the decision-making process. In most cases, the cost of procedures varies from doctor to doctor and can be influenced by geographical location. Additionally if you're having dermabrasion done to remove scarring or precancerous skin growths, your insurance may cover the cost.
Dermabrasion is a cosmetic medical procedure in which the surface of the epidermis of the skin is removed by abrasion to reveal a new layer of remodeled skin to achieve a smoother and refreshed facial appearance. Dermabrasion is a procedure which involves removing the surface of the skin to remove and reduce blemishes. The dermabrasion surgery can take up to an hour with local anesthetic and sedation.
3. Learn the costs. The average cost of a procedure in the United States is $143, but it may be as low as $15-$40 in India and other Asian countries. Multiple sessions – usually between 5 and 16 – are required to achieve desired results. Many doctors offer financing plans to make the treatment more affordable for their patients. 
Dermabrasion is one of three commonly used office-based surgical skin resurfacing and rejuvenation procedures. The technique takes its origin from ancient Egypt in 1500 B.C. where healers used a form of sandpaper to even out scars. 
The average cost of microdermabrasion is $143, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. The cost of microdermabrasion treatment can vary. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, facilities or other related expenses. Prices may also be based on the expertise and qualifications of the person performing the treatment, type of microdermabrasion procedure performed, time and effort the procedure requires, and the geographic location of the office. Be sure to ask your surgeon about all costs involved in your microdermabrasion treatment
According to the source of The American Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, the national average of surgeon fees for dermabrasion in 1999 was $1,383. A survey conducted in North America by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, estimates the same procedure to cost around $ 866 today. Home Cost of Dermabrasion Surgery. More and more people are going for cosmetic surgery these days. More than 65% of people who undergo cosmetic surgery today have family incomes under $50,000. This figure clearly points towards the fact that, it is not only the rich and famous who are going for the surgery.
Dermabrasion is a procedure in which the skin is cooled and then a specialized high-speed rotary instrument is used to sand the skin. This abrasive or planing action improves your skin contour as a new layer of skin replaces the treated skin, resulting in a smoother, refreshed appearance. 
Also known as microderm. Microdermabrasion is a noninvasive, skin resurfacing procedure that gently exfoliates or polishes away the top layer of dead skin cells, while stimulating collagen growth, to reveal healthy new skin that looks and feels smoother.
In most cases the fee for a dermabrasion varies with the extent that it is needed to be performed. The cost for full face dermabrasion is around $3000. If you have acne scars and want only your cheeks treated, expect to pay about $2000. If you want only your lips treated, you might pay as little as $1000. There is another important aspect to the cost of dermabrasion procedures which most people are not aware of. Home Cost of Dermabrasion Surgery. More and more people are going for cosmetic surgery these days. More than 65% of people who undergo cosmetic surgery today have family incomes under $50,000. This figure clearly points towards the fact that, it is not only the rich and famous who are going for the surgery.