Persons, who are interested in becoming an obstetrician/gynecologist, must complete four years of undergraduate school at an accredited college or university, four years of medical school specializing in obstetrics and gynecology, and a three to eight year internship and residency in a hospital setting. How to become an Obstetrician Gynecologist. An obstetrician/gynecologist is a medical doctor, who specializes in the medical and surgical care of women, particularly in the areas of pregnancy, childbirth, and disorders of the female reproductive system.
Confidence votes 1.9K. It requires 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school and, 4 years of residency, for a total of 12. The salary is is more than $250k/year. Fellowships exist that allow gynecologists to sub-specialize in topics such as Reproductive Medicine or Fertility Medicine. These may be an additional 1-4 years of training
After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (which will get you a BS, BA, or other Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medical School (which will get you an MD or DO degree). After this, you are a general doctor. Most of the time, these new doctors go on to learn a specialty in medicine, such as pediatrics. In the case of OB/GYN, the training of residency is 4 years. After completing these 4 years, you are now a obstetrician and are eligible to become certified in obstetrics and gynecology by passing a rigorous test that deals with medical conditions related to women's health needs.
Essential Information. The common route for an OBGYN student is to earn an undergraduate degree, graduate from medical school and complete a residency at a hospital prior to certification. Becoming an obstetrician-gynecologist (OBGYN) requires about 12-15 years of education and practical experience. The first eight years are general medical training. Doctors begin to specialize in OBGYN practice during residency programs that begin following graduation from medical school
Let’s look at how many years of college education it will take to practice in this career path. You will need an undergraduate degree, which takes 4 years, before you attend medical school, which takes another 4 years, before others can call you doctor. 
A career as an obstetrician/ gynecologist requires you to obtain a typical medical doctor education at a four year undergraduate college or university, followed by four years of medical school, and three to eight years of residency in obstetrics and gynecology. This residency normally lasts between four and five years. How to become an Obstetrician Gynecologist. An obstetrician/gynecologist is a medical doctor, who specializes in the medical and surgical care of women, particularly in the areas of pregnancy, childbirth, and disorders of the female reproductive system.
After earning a bachelor's degree, students must attend a medical school for 4 years to earn an M.D. During the first 2 years of medical school, students usually take lecture courses in anatomy, laboratory science and general health care procedures. From the start of a pregnancy through the delivery of the baby, an obstetrician's job is monitoring the health of the mother and child. These specialists are also customarily trained in gynecology and should have a keen interest in all aspects of women's general reproductive health care.
Salary. During residency training, an OB/GYN’s annual salary may range from $45,000 to $60,000. Salary will increase with each year of training. After residency is completed, the starting salary is generally between $200,000 and $250,000 per year. 