Over the last 30 years man-made CFCs have been the main cause of stratospheric ozone depletion. CFCs however, are not the only ozone-depleting chemicals. Other ODCs include the methylhalides, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), carbon tetrafluoride (CF4), and the halons which contain bromine instead of chlorine.
One of the chemicals used that damages the ozone layer is a refrigerant gas known as R22. This gas (a hydrochlorofluorocarbon or HCFC) is one of the last remaining ozone depleting substances that is in common use. However, the use of R22 for service and maintenance is now banned.
Note that most of the ozone is in the lower stratosphere. The ozone layer resides at an altitude of about 12 to 15 miles (20 to 25 kilometers) above sea level. It acts as a shield by absorbing biologically active ultraviolet light (called UV-B) from the sun.
Most anything that makes it to the ozone layer gets destroyed, since there is a lot of high energy light available to do this. The most important one is ozone, which is destroyed by: UV-C and UV-B from the Sun. Not-fully-oxidized sulfur compounds.
The ozone layer is the Earth's natural sunscreen, filtering out harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays from the sun. UV rays can cause damage to humans and other forms of life. Although the ozone layer is high up in the atmosphere, chemical substances used at the surface of the planet can damage it. If the ozone layer is damaged, UV rays can get through and
CFCs, HCFCs, and Halon: The ozone layer is destroyed by CFC's, chlorofluorocarbons, that are used as a propellant in aerosol cans, and refrigerants in older cars and refrigerators. When Chlorofluorocarbons (Freon and other CFCs) and Bromofluorocarbons (Halons) they became popular refrigerants and fire fighting agents.
The ozone layer is a belt of naturally occurring ozone gas that sits 9.3 to 18.6 miles (15 to 30 kilometers) above Earth and serves as a shield from the harmful ultraviolet B radiation emitted by the sun.
When ultraviolet light waves (UV) strike CFC* (CFCl3) molecules in the upper atmosphere, a carbon-chlorine bond breaks, producing a chlorine (Cl) atom. The chlorine atom then reacts with an ozone (O3) molecule breaking it apart and so destroying the ozone.
Ozone Depleting Chemicals CFCs The destruction of ozone is accelerated by certain trace gases containing nitrogen, hydrogen, bromine, and chlorine. These are referred to as ozone depletion chemicals.