It's important to manage the general shape of a waterway. A parabolic shape is preferred because it is the shape found most often in natural waterways, it is the most crossing-friendly shape to farm equipment, and the flow of water is less likely to meander. And with this wet weather, it's especially important to have grass waterways ready to handle runoff. A grass waterway is an area where grass is left to grow permanently to drain runoff water into designated outlets, without exposing bare soil to erosion.
A parabolic shape is preferred because it is the shape found most often in natural waterways, it is the most crossing-friendly shape to farm equipment, and the flow of water is less likely to meander. To avoid causing gullies alongside the waterway, don't plant endrows that run parallel to the waterway. Mowing waterways is also important. Allowing the grass to mature means too much sediment will be trapped. The waterway could lose its shape, or the water will simply circumvent the waterway altogether. To allow for bird nesting, be sure that any mowing occurs before May 10 and after July 15.
The Intracoastal Waterway (ICW) is a 3,000-mile (4,800 km) inland waterway along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coasts of the United States. Some sections of the waterway consist of natural inlets, saltwater rivers, bays, and sounds, while others are artificial canals. It provides a navigable route along its length without many of the hazards of travel on the open sea. The Intracoastal Waterway connects to several navigable rivers where shipping traffic can travel to inland ports, including the Mississippi, Alabama, Savannah, James, Susquehanna, Delaware, Hudson, and Connecticut rivers.
Best Answer: Water flows where there is the least amount of resistance. Over time when this water carries a sediment load brooks, creeks and rivers are created. Your natural water way would be the area of least resistance. Drainage ditches are man-made they are not natural they are used to drain off fields but also used to redirect water so that it doesn't flood an area. Hope that helps. If I remember my geography right any water way was a natural waterway. The LA river is a natural waterway-though concrete. The Mississippi is a natural waterway though man has changed it over time. Even the deep water channel to the Port of Sacramento is a natural waterway
Expert: lwpat replied 3 years ago. I don't see that the township would be involved or have any liability or responsibility in this situation. Under the common law of property and also of negligence, if someone has blocked a waterway and that is causing damage to someone else, the party being damaged has a civil claim. 
Noun. 1. waterway-a navigable body of water. body of water, water-the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean); they invaded our territorial waters; they were sitting by the water's edge. ditch-any small natural waterway. 
Brook-A very small natural waterway, smaller than a stream. Stream-A small natural waterway, larger than a brook, but smaller than a creek. Creek-A medium natural waterway, larger than a stream. Often a tributary to a river. River-A natural stream of water of considerable volume. Larger than all other waterways. Canal-An artificial waterway, used for navigation, draining, or irrigating land. Wash-a shallow creek or the dry bed of a waterway. Mouth-The place where a waterway enters another waterway. Fork-A place where a waterway branches into two or more new waterways. Delta-An alluvial deposit, usually at the mouth of a waterway, often in the shape of the Greek letter delta because of multiple forks.
an artificial waterway constructed for navigation or for the movement of water. The digging of canals for irrigation probably dates back to the beginnings of agriculture, and traces of canals have been found in the regions of ancient civilizations. Navigation canals are also divided into open and lock canals. Open canals are built by joining waterways whose water levels are almost the same; canals with locks are used when there is a difference in levels or when the route of the canal crosses a high water divide.