Vitamin D deficiency is associated with many conditions, including bone loss, kidney disease, lung disorders, diabetes, stomach and intestine problems, and heart disease. Vitamin D supplementation has been found to help prevent or treat vitamin D deficiency. 
Vitamin B-12 deficiency is associated with an elevated HC. The prevalence of hyperhomocysteinemia in the general population is 5-10%; in people older than 65 years it may reach 30-40%. Elevated HC is a risk factor for coronary artery, cerebrovascular, and peripheral vascular diseases and venous thrombosis. Children require 0.7 mcg/d and, in adolescence, 2 mcg/d. Because vitamin B-12 is highly conserved through the enterohepatic circulation, cobalamin deficiency from malabsorption develops after 2-5 years and deficiency from dietary inadequacy in vegetarians develops after 10-20 years.
Rickets. Courtesy of Blatner.com. This condition is brought on by a lack of vitamin D, which causes the body to be unable to absorb or deposit calcium. Less commonly, it can also be caused by a lack of calcium or phosphorus, but vitamin D deficiency is by far the most common cause. Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C, whose chemical name, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin term for scurvy, scorbutus. Even though the disease was known since ancient times (described by Hippocrates around 400 BCE), it was not a scourge to those who were largely land-bound.
People recently diagnosed with celiac disease are commonly deficient in fiber, iron, calcium, magnesium, zinc, folate, niacin, riboflavin, vitamin B 12, and vitamin D, as well as in calories and protein. Deficiencies in copper and vitamin B 6 are also possible, but less common. A study from 2002 by Bona et. al. indicated that the delay in puberty in children with celiac disease may partially be due to low amounts of B vitamins, iron, and folate. 
Rickets is a childhood disease that is associated with a vitamin deficiency. According to the Family Doctor website, rickets is a disorder that affects a child's bones, causing them to become soft and fracture easily. Rickets is caused by a lack of vitamin D, although heredity can also play a role in this disease. List of Vitamin Deficiency Diseases. Numerous diseases are associated with vitamin deficiency. Photo Credit the sad girl image by Yuriy Poznukhov from Fotolia.com. Numerous diseases are associated with vitamin deficiency. According to the World Health Organization, or WHO, micronutrient deficiencies, including vitamin deficiencies, can affect anybody, although young children and pregnant women in certain developing nations are more commonly affected than others
2. Courtesy of Blatner.com. This condition is brought on by a lack of vitamin D, which causes the body to be unable to absorb or deposit calcium. Less commonly, it can also be caused by a lack of calcium or phosphorus, but vitamin D deficiency is by far the most common cause. Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C, whose chemical name, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin term for scurvy, scorbutus. Even though the disease was known since ancient times (described by Hippocrates around 400 BCE), it was not a scourge to those who were largely land-bound.
Heart disease is also associated to low vitamin B6 levels in the body. Numerous studies have shown that individuals with low pyridoxal-5-phosphate (form of vitamin B6) in their blood have five times greater risk of having a heart attack than individuals with higher levels. 
People with low vitamin D levels are more likely to die from cancer and heart disease and to suffer from other illnesses, scientists reported in two large studies published on Tuesday. The new research suggests strongly that blood levels of vitamin D are a good barometer of overall health. 
A growing number of studies point to vitamin D deficiency as a risk factor for heart attacks, congestive heart failure, peripheral arterial disease (PAD), strokes, and the conditions associated with cardiovascular disease, such as high blood pressure and diabetes. 