The Cape vulture is southern Africa’s only endemic vulture species and is considered ‘Endangered’ by the IUCN. With only 2,900 breeding pairs, this species has declined across its range and is now extinct as a breeding species in Zimbabwe, Swaziland and now Namibia. As coordinator of the Cape Vulture Task Force in southern Africa, VulPro’s aim is to prevent the extinction of the Cape vulture.
TOP. Why Africa's Vultures Are Collapsing Toward Extinction. A demand for vulture parts in witchcraft, as well as poisoning and urbanization, has caused a nearly 90 percent decline in the scavengers' populations. Africa's eight vulture species have declined in number by an average of 62 percent during the last 30 years, according to the first estimates of a continent-wide decline in the large birds. Six of those species would likely be considered critically endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
Cape Vultures. Wolter and the Vulture Programme’s work is particularly focused on saving the Cape Vulture, Africa’s largest vulture species. Confined to Southern Africa, they are endangered in Swaziland, critically endangered in Namibia and extinct as a breeding species in Zimbabwe.
Cape vulture conservation. As well as being listed on Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) and Appendix II of the CMS, some breeding colonies of the Cape vulture lie within protected areas, such as Marakele National Park in South Africa, which is home to the largest colony. The Cape vulture is found in South Africa, Lesotho, Botswana and Mozambique. It formerly bred in Swaziland, Zimbabwe and Namibia, but is now extinct in Swaziland, and only small, non-breeding populations persist in Zimbabwe and Namibia. More ».
The Cape griffon or Cape vulture (Gyps coprotheres), also known as Kolbe's vulture, is an Old World vulture in the family Accipitridae, which also includes eagles, kites, buzzards and hawks. It is endemic to southern Africa, and is found mainly in South Africa, Lesotho, Botswana and in some parts of northern Namibia. The average length is about 96–115 cm (38–45 in) with a wingspan of 2.26–2.6 m (7.4–8.5 ft) and a body weight of 7–11 kg (15–24 lb). They are on average the largest raptor in Africa, although they are subservient to the powerful lappet-faced vulture.
Of more concern, however, are mass accidental poisonings, says Maria Diekmann of the Rare and Endangered Species Trust (REST) in Namibia, where Cape Griffon vultures are the most endangered of all animal species. “The Cape Griffon vulture is what I would call a ‘super vulture.’ It is bigger, eats more, only roosts on cliffs; the needs are more specific. I think that all of our vulture species are declining. We just see it in the Cape first as the numbers were lower to begin with.
To supplement ongoing conservation efforts, the Cape Vulture Task Force was therefore established in 2006 as a collaboration between the Endangered Wildlife Trust’s Birds of Prey Programme (EWT-BoPP), the Vulture Programme (VulPro NPC) and several other prominent conservation organizations and concerned individuals. 
Support is expected to be even greater in years to come.. South Africa is home to nine Vulture species. Seven of these species are listed in the Red Data Book of Birds of South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland (Barnes, 2000) as facing a certain degree of threat of extinction. The Egyptian Vulture, Neophron percnopterus, is one of only two bird species listed as regionally extinct in South Africa.
As a result, vulture populations are plummeting. Africa's eight vulture species have declined in number by an average of 62 percent during the last 30 years, according to the first estimates of a continent-wide decline in the large birds. Six of those species would likely be considered critically endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
Listed as “vulnerable” to extinction by the World Conservation Union (which is similar to “threatened” on the Endangered Species List) the Cape Griffon vulture has suffered a significant population decline over the past few decades. “The Cape Griffon vulture is what I would call a ‘super vulture.’ It is bigger, eats more, only roosts on cliffs; the needs are more specific. I think that all of our vulture species are declining. We just see it in the Cape first as the numbers were lower to begin with.