Solar energy is radiant light and heat from the Sun harnessed using a range of ever-evolving technologies such as solar heating, photovoltaics, solar thermal energy, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis. The total solar energy absorbed by Earth's atmosphere, oceans and land masses is approximately 3,850,000 exajoules (EJ) per year. In 2002, this was more energy in one hour than the world used in one year. Photosynthesis captures approximately 3,000 EJ per year in biomass.
Solar energy is a renewable resource whose use does not affect its future supply. Conventional power plants use fossil fuels or nuclear energy as a heat source to boil water. The steam from the boiling water rotates a turbine, which activates a generator to produce electricity. Solar energy facilities use concentrating solar power (CSP) as the heat source to boil water, or they convert sunlight directly into electricity using solar cells, also known as photovoltaics (PV).
Solar power is energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical energy. Solar energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source available, and the U.S. has some of the richest solar resources in the world. There are several ways to harness solar energy: photovoltaics (also called solar electric), solar heating & cooling, concentrating solar power (typically built at utility-scale), and passive solar.
Here are the five most practical and popular ways that solar energy is used: 1  Small portable solar photovoltaic systems. 2  Solar pool heating. 3  Thermal glycol energy to heat water. 4  This method of collecting the sun's energy is more practical now than ever. 5  Integrating solar photovoltaic energy into your home or business power. 6  Large independent ... 
Thermal mass systems can store solar energy in the form of heat at domestically useful temperatures for daily or interseasonal durations. Thermal storage systems generally use readily available materials with high specific heat capacities such as water, earth and stone. The total solar energy absorbed by Earth's atmosphere, oceans and land masses is approximately 3,850,000 exajoules (EJ) per year. In 2002, this was more energy in one hour than the world used in one year. Photosynthesis captures approximately 3,000 EJ per year in biomass.
Solar energy technologies convert the sun’s light into usable electricity or heat. Solar energy systems can be divided into two major categories: photovoltaic and thermal. Photovoltaic cells produce electricity directly, while solar thermal systems produce heat for buildings, industrial processes or domestic hot water. Direct-use thermal systems are usually located on individual buildings, where they use solar energy directly as a source of heat. The most common systems use sunlight to heat water for houses or swimming pools, or use collector systems or passive solar architecture to heat living and working spaces.
Solar energy is a flexible energy technology: solar power plants can be built as distributed generation (located at or near the point of use) or as a central-station, utility-scale solar power plant (similar to traditional power plants). There are several ways to harness solar energy: photovoltaics (also called solar electric), solar heating & cooling, concentrating solar power (typically built at utility-scale), and passive solar.
| Photo courtesy of Jim Schmid Photography, NREL. Active solar heating systems use solar energy to heat a fluid -- either liquid or air -- and then transfer the solar heat directly to the interior space or to a storage system for later use. If the solar system cannot provide adequate space heating, an auxiliary or back-up system provides the additional heat. Heating your home with an active solar energy system can significantly reduce your fuel bills in the winter. A solar heating system will also reduce the amount of air pollution and greenhouse gases that result from your use of fossil fuels for heating or generating the electricity.
Solar Energy and Its Uses. Utility scale solar energy facilities generate electricity that is sent to energy consumers via electric transmission systems. On a smaller scale, solar energy facilities can be used to generate electricity or hot water for use in individual buildings. Solar energy facilities use concentrating solar power (CSP) as the heat source to boil water, or they convert sunlight directly into electricity using solar cells, also known as photovoltaics (PV).