Muscular dystrophy is an inherited (genetic) disorder causing muscle weakness. There are different types of muscular dystrophy, which vary as to how severe they are, ranging from very mild to severe. The different types also vary as to what age they begin. 
Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited diseases that are characterized by weakness and wasting away of muscle tissue, with or without the breakdown of nerve tissue. There are nine types of muscular dystrophy, with each type involving an eventual loss of strength, increasing disability, and possible deformity. The most well known of the muscular dystrophies is Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) , followed by Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) .
Some types of muscular dystrophy affect only males; some people with MD enjoy a normal life span with mild symptoms that progress very slowly; others experience swift and severe muscle weakness and wasting, dying in their late teens to early 20s. The various types of MD affect more than 50,000 Americans. 1 This form of muscular dystrophy appears in men and women in their 40s, 50s, and 60s. 2  It progresses slowly, causing weakness in the eye and face muscles, which may lead to difficulty swallowing. 3  Weakness in pelvic and shoulder muscles may occur later. 4  Choking and recurrent pneumonia may occur.
1 Myotonic (also called MMD or Steinert's disease). 2  The most common form of muscular dystrophy in adults, myotonic muscular dystrophy affects both men and women, and it usually appears any time from early childhood to adulthood. 3  In rare cases, it appears in newborns (congenital MMD). 1 This form of muscular dystrophy appears in men and women in their 40s, 50s, and 60s. 2  It progresses slowly, causing weakness in the eye and face muscles, which may lead to difficulty swallowing. 3  Weakness in pelvic and shoulder muscles may occur later. 4  Choking and recurrent pneumonia may occur.
Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue. Specific muscle groups are affected by different types of muscular dystrophy. Often, there is a loss of muscle mass (wasting), which may be hard to see because some types of muscular dystrophy cause a buildup of fat and connective tissue that makes the muscle appear larger.
Types of muscular dystrophy. There are many different types of muscular dystrophy (MD). All types cause muscle weakness, but the areas affected and the severity of the symptoms are different. Typical symptoms of some of the most common types of MD are explained below. Muscular Dystrophy UK also provides a dropdown list of specific muscle-weakening conditions. Myotonic dystrophy. As with other types of muscular dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy involves progressive muscle weakness and muscle wasting. However, it's often the smaller muscles that are affected first, such as those in the face, jaw and neck. Myotonic dystrophy can appear at any time between birth and old age.
Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited diseases that are characterized by weakness and wasting away of muscle tissue, with or without the breakdown of nerve tissue. There are nine types of muscular dystrophy, with each type involving an eventual loss of strength, increasing disability, and possible deformity. Listed below are the nine different types of muscular dystrophy. Each type differs in the muscles affected, the age of onset, and its rate of progression. Some types are named for the affected muscles, including the following: