An employer only records and pays for time if employees work in full 15 minute increments. An employee paid $10 per hour is scheduled to work 8 hours a day Monday through Friday, for a total of 40 hours a week. The employee always clocks out 12 minutes after the end of her shift. The employee is paid $400 per week
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) requires covered employers to pay non exempt employees at least the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour effective July 24, 2009, for all hours worked and overtime pay for hours worked over 40 in a workweek. An employee paid $10 per hour is scheduled to work 8 hours a day Monday through Friday, for a total of 40 hours a week. The employee always clocks out 12 minutes after the end of her shift.
The FLSA, as well as most state laws, require employers to pay non-exempt employees for all hours worked. This may require employers to pay employees for time worked during what is supposed to be an unpaid meal or lunch break. (See 29 CFR 785.11). The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) is very strict in requiring employers to pay non-exempt employees for all hours worked. This may include requiring an employer to pay an employee for time worked while on a bona fide meal or lunch break, even if the break is supposed to be unpaid.
An employee s schedule is 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. with a thirty minute unpaid lunch break. The employee receives overtime compensation after 40 hours in a workweek. The employee clocks in 10 minutes early every day and clocks out 7 minutes late each day. An employee paid $10 per hour is scheduled to work 8 hours a day Monday through Friday, for a total of 40 hours a week. The employee always clocks out 12 minutes after the end of her shift.
Unless exempt by the Fair Labor Standards Act, overtime is paid to hourly employees at the rate of time and one half of the employees regular rate of pay for all hours actually worked over forty in any one week (FLSA) (RSA 279:21,VIII). 
Twenty-four states require employers to provide meal periods to employees. Some laws only apply when workers have worked for a certain number of hours, such as Pennsylvania's law that provides for a 30 minute lunch break after five hours of work. If an employee doesn't take a lunch, an employer can't deduct the time from his paycheck. An employer is not expected to baby-sit employees to make sure they take meal breaks that he offers. If an employee wants to be paid for his lunch time, he can work during the time and skip the break.
Answer: Your California employer does not have to pay you for a meal break. Although California requires employers to provide a meal break (half an hour, if the employee works at least six hours), the break can be unpaid. If an employer requires employees to remain on-site during lunch, that time also must be paid. As you note, California employers must give employees a paid ten-minute break for every four hours worked. These breaks aren't always that popular with employees. You work in retail, so you're likely thankful for a bit of time off your feet and out of the public eye
Ask two workers if they prefer a salary or hourly wage, you will likely get two different answers. Using the Fair Labor Standards Act exempt classification tests, salaried employees are exempt from overtime pay rules, meaning they don’t receive extra pay for working more than 40 hours in a week. 