Wasp Animal Totem Symbolism. The wasp is neither the most popular animal nor the most popular totem, probably due to the discomforting and often painful stings that they can leave on our skin. However, even the wasp animal totem has important symbolic messages that we need to be conscious and aware of. The wasp meaning also encourages you to remain tough and strong in this process, for resistance to change is sabotage. In order to achieve success, you must be able to allow yourself to believe that all things are possible.
Admin. From: http://www.whats-your-sig...sp-animal-symbolism. html Animal symbolism of the wasp deals with: orderconstructioncommunicationinvolvementdevelopmentprogressteam-workproductivity In some African traditions, the wasp is a symbol of evolution, and control over our life circumstances. 
Ancient European lore recognizes the wasp as big part in pollination. Here the wasp is symbolic of fertility as this genre of earth-based believers honored the wasp for its role in continuation of certain plants and flowers. Animal symbolism of the wasp deals many themes. The prime season of the wasp is spring, and so it is symbolic of new beginnings, and starting new projects. The wasp is very social, and has special means of communication with its family. When the wasp appears in our lives it is a message for us to consider our own methods of communication.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The wasp has many different spiritual meanings depending on what culture you look at. A few meanings are fertility, productivity, and evolution
Since ancient history the wasp has been a symbol of unrelenting torment. Wasps are capable of stinging multiple times and are known for their single-minded pursuit of vengeance. Dreaming of wasps is sign that you are feeling beset by hardships, setbacks, conflicts, temptations, or pain. Some species of wasps are parasitic, laying eggs in the bodies of other insects. As a consequence, dreaming of wasps may also indicate that you are being taken advantage of by those closest to you. In this dream you may have... 1  Been stung by a wasp. 2  Chased a wasp. 3  Killed a wasp. 4  Stepped on a wasp.
Unveiling animal symbolism affords us new insight into life, and lessons for life too. Even the wasp has symbolic messages to offer us. Granted, the wasp isn't the top ten most popular animal totem or guide, but do a little research, and you'll find the wasp is a highly regarded symbol in many cultures. The prime season of the wasp is spring, and so it is symbolic of new beginnings, and starting new projects. The wasp is very social, and has special means of communication with its family. When the wasp appears in our lives it is a message for us to consider our own methods of communication.
Across several cultures, the meaning and interpretation of the wasp’s messages differ a bit. Certain African traditions value this insect as the symbol of evolution and control over our own lives, while ancient European cultures focused on the wasp’s role in pollination. The wasp meaning also encourages you to remain tough and strong in this process, for resistance to change is sabotage. In order to achieve success, you must be able to allow yourself to believe that all things are possible.