The Oregon Territory stretched from the Pacific coast to the Rocky Mountains, encompassing the area including present-day Oregon, Washington, and most of British Columbia. Originally Spain, Great Britain, Russia, and the United States claimed the territory. 
The Eugene-Springfield, Oregon MSA is the 146th largest metropolitan statistical area of the U.S., and the third-largest in the state, behind the Portland Metropolitan Area and the Salem Metropolitan Area. The city's population was estimated by the Portland Research Center to be 160,561 in 2014. The largest library in Oregon is the University of Oregon's Knight Library, with collections totaling more than 3 million volumes and over 100,000 audio and video items. The Eugene Public Library moved into a new, larger building downtown in 2002.
That state was Washington, the state consultants said was demographically most like Oregon and, therefore, most likely to favor assisted suicide. In May 2013, Vermont passed an Oregon-style assisted suicide law and in September 2015, California passed a doctor-prescribed suicide bill. The Washington law is virtually identical to Oregon’s assisted-suicide law. Ballot Initiatives that Were Defeated. Washington State – 1991. Ballot Initiative 119, which would have legalized “aid-in-dying” (both doctor-administered euthanasia and doctor-prescribed suicide), was defeated by a vote of 54% to 46%.
Oregon is surrounded by Idaho from the eastern side, whereas Pacific Ocean borders the state from the west. Oregon shares its borders with Washington on the northern front and California and Nevada encircles the state from south. Divided into inland water and land area, Oregon state covers a total of 97, 073 sq miles. Having a boundary length of 2324 km the state of Oregon is 475 km long on its north-south extension, while the state is 636 km long on its east-west direction.
Ten states with a long history and nice diversity of gemstone production include: Arizona, North Carolina, Oregon, California, Utah, Tennessee, Montana, Colorado, Arkansas, and Idaho. Although the United States produces a diversity of gemstone varieties, the quantity produced is very small. 
Eugene (/juːˈdʒiːn/ ew-JEEN) is a city of the Pacific Northwest located in the U.S. state of Oregon. It is the second largest city in the state (after Portland) and the county seat of Lane County. It is located at the south end of the Willamette Valley, near the confluence of the McKenzie and Willamette rivers, about 50 miles (80 km) east of the Oregon Coast. The largest library in Oregon is the University of Oregon's Knight Library, with collections totaling more than 3 million volumes and over 100,000 audio and video items. The Eugene Public Library moved into a new, larger building downtown in 2002.
Oregon is located in the northwest region of USA and it is 9th largest state by area. Having a boundary length of 2324 km the state of Oregon is 475 km long on its north-south extension, while the state is 636 km long on its east-west direction.
Oregon is a state in the United States that's located in the Pacific Northwest region. It was one of the last states settled by Europeans and in 1859, became the 33rd to be admitted to the Union. Today, it is the 9th largest and 27th most populous state in the US. There are 197 public school districts in the state. The Oregon University System handles 7 public universities with the University of Oregon its flagship institution. It is also the most selective and highest ranked university in terms of national ranking.
Oregon (OR) is the 9th largest state in the U.S. The state of Oregon is known for its dense forests, theme parks, canyons, and recreational areas. The capital is Salem and biggest city is Portland. Portland is the most populous city and the 29th largest U.S. city. There are 197 public school districts in the state. The Oregon University System handles 7 public universities with the University of Oregon its flagship institution. It is also the most selective and highest ranked university in terms of national ranking.
In the United States, Oregon was the first state to legalized doctor-prescribed suicide. At that time, assisted-suicide advocates predicted that there would be a rapid “domino effect,” and other states would soon follow Oregon’s lead. The Washington law is virtually identical to Oregon’s assisted-suicide law. Ballot Initiatives that Were Defeated. Washington State – 1991. Ballot Initiative 119, which would have legalized “aid-in-dying” (both doctor-administered euthanasia and doctor-prescribed suicide), was defeated by a vote of 54% to 46%.