EPITHELIUM • epithelium is a tissue composed of a layer of cells.• Epithelium lines both the outside (skin) and the inside cavities and lumen of bodies. • The outermost layer of our skin is composed of dead stratified squamous epithelial cells, as are the mucous membranes lining the inside of mouths and body cavities. Functions of Epithelial Tissue • Protection •Epithelial cells from the skin protect underlying tissue from mechanical injury, harmful chemicals, invading bacteria and from excessive loss of water. • Sensation •Sensory stimuli penetrate specialised epithelial cells.
The mesothelium is a membrane composed of simple squamous cells that forms the lining of several body cavities: the pleura (thoracic cavity), peritoneum (abdominal cavity including the mesentery) and pericardium (heart sac). Mesothelium derives from the embryonic mesodermcell layer, that lines the coelom (body cavity) in the embryo. It develops into the layer of cells that covers and protects most of the internal organs of the body.
A stratified squamous epithelium consists of more than one (typically many) layers, or strata, of epithelial cells (see figure). The basal layer of epithelial cells are small and cuboidal-to-columnar; the cells gradually become larger and more squamous as the cells migrate from the basal layer to the apical layer. Stratified squamous epithelia are specialized to withstand the mechanical stresses of abrasion.
Both blood and bone are examples of connective tissue. skin. inside the body,epithelial cells form. Cancer Overview Stanford Cancer Center: Epithelial cells form sheets that cover the outside of the body and line internal blocks pathogens from entering the body and protects the body from dehydration. Epithelial and Connective Tissues: Endothelium (the inner lining of blood vessels) is not related to Protection.  Epithelial cells from the skin protect underlying tissue from mechanical injury, harmful chemicals, Sweat is also excreted from the body by epithelial cells in the sweat glands.
Epithelium (epi- + thele + -ium) is one of the four basic types of animal tissue. The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Simple epithelium is one cell thick; that is, every cell is in direct contact with the underlying basement membrane. In general, it is found where absorption and filtration occur. The thinness of the epithelial barrier facilitates these processes.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The stratified squamous epithelium consists of flattened epithelial cells arranged in layers upon a basal membrane. It's the thickest, and layers can be sloughed off and replaced before the basement membrane is exposed
Epithelial Tissue. Squamous Epithelium Simple squamous epithelium is composed of a single layer of flattened cells, and therefore its protective function is not as significant as that of other epithelial tissues (Fig. 4.1) . It is found in areas where secretion, absorption, and filtration occur. On internal surfaces, epithelial tissue protects, but it also may have an additional function. For example, in the respiratory tract, epithelial tissue sweeps up impurities by means of cilia. Along the digestive tract, it secretes mucus, which protects the lining from digestive enzymes.
There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells. Simple epithelium is one cell thick; that is, every cell is in direct contact with the underlying basement membrane. In general, it is found where absorption and filtration occur. The thinness of the epithelial barrier facilitates these processes.