More Ginger Drink Recipes. Beyond ginger tea, popular ginger drinks include ginger ale, ginger beer, ginger juice and ginger cocktails. Below, you'll find some of the top ginger drink recipes on About.com. Unless otherwise notes, these recipes are made with fresh ginger root. 1  How to Make Ginger Juice from About Chinese Food. 
Commercial ginger drinks are rarely gingery enough for me; I prefer less sweetness and more of that spicy bite of lots of fresh ginger. So I usually skip the store-bought stuff and make my own ginger beverages, using one of these three simple methods. 
Always love that combination. We like drinks with fresh ginger, with ginger syrup, and spiked with ginger liqueur. Today, we're sharing a 11 recipes for ginger-spiced fall drinking inspiration. No. 8. [Photo: Robyn Lee]. We love the King's Ginger, which is a pungent and potent ginger liqueur. After you've scored a bottle, we recommend this recipe, which calls for mixing the gingery liqueur with fresh lime and grapefruit, plus mezcal and orange bitters.
Fresh ginger juice, sweetened with a little sugar, has the backbone to stand up to funky Smith & Cross Jamaican rum, which stars in this drink alongside bittersweet Cynar. The result is a complex drink that will keep your tastebuds entertained. No. 8. [Photo: Robyn Lee]. We love the King's Ginger, which is a pungent and potent ginger liqueur. After you've scored a bottle, we recommend this recipe, which calls for mixing the gingery liqueur with fresh lime and grapefruit, plus mezcal and orange bitters.
 Ginger Ale. Popular soft drink, often very sweet with a mild taste of ginger. Ginger beer is more obvious, however harder to find in most places. This is why ginger ale is much more common in drink recipes, and an indispensable friend in the bar. 
An easier option is to make your own ginger ale by cooking up a batch of this ginger syrup and mixing it with soda water. Pimm's Cup #21. Matt Taylor-Gross. Inspired by our list of Friday cocktails, bartender Michael Neff noticed that bitter flavors were prominent, as were fizzy drinks made with fresh fruit and herbs. We've rounded up our favorite ginger ale and ginger beer cocktail recipes. Ginger ale and ginger beer can both be purchased, but it's fun and easy to make them on your own. For ginger ale, simply make a syrup out of water, ginger, sugar, and a dash of black peppercorns, then mix it with soda water. To make ginger beer, brew up a similar ginger mixture and add in spices and champagne yeast
Step 3. Strain out the ginger with a fine-mesh strainer. Place the cup in your refrigerator until thoroughly chilled, about two to three hours. You can also drink ginger tea hot by simply adding sweetener and a little ground cinnamon immediatly after you strain out the ginger.
1 Place ginger into a blender, cover with 1 1/2 cup water, and blend until ginger is thick and pasty. 2  Strain and squeeze juice from ginger pulp into a 2-quart pitcher, squeezing ginger mixture as dry as possible. 3  Stir lemon juice and sugar into ginger juice until sugar has dissolved. Ready In. 1 
[Photo: Wes Rowe]. Lots of lime makes this rye drink refreshing, while fresh ginger syrup accentuates the whiskey's spice. Ever since we tasted this drink from Sother Teague of Amor y Amargo in NYC, it's been a favorite. No. 8. [Photo: Robyn Lee]. We love the King's Ginger, which is a pungent and potent ginger liqueur. After you've scored a bottle, we recommend this recipe, which calls for mixing the gingery liqueur with fresh lime and grapefruit, plus mezcal and orange bitters.