There are is a common confusion in feng shui as to which plant exactly is considered the feng shui money plant. There is the money tree plant with the botanical name Pachira Aquatica, and then there is also the feng shui money plant with the botanical name Crassula Ovata.
Also be sure to make intelligent choices when you apply feng shui symbols in your home or office. I have seen people clinging to a feng shui money tree as if there is no tomorrow. Best not to do that; a plant will not bring you money. There is the money tree plant with the botanical name Pachira Aquatica, and then there is also the feng shui money plant with the botanical name Crassula Ovata.
A plant is just a plant with characteristics that you can see and feel, such as its radiant beauty, its overall health, the shape of its leaves, the height, etc. You do know money does not grow on trees so do not put all your hopes in a feng shui money tree! There is the money tree plant with the botanical name Pachira Aquatica, and then there is also the feng shui money plant with the botanical name Crassula Ovata.
A wedding money tree is a decorative branch placed on a gift table where guests can clip money for the wedding couple. It is typically a centerpiece item and is designed to coordinate with other wedding decorations. Money trees can be purchased, or you can make a wedding money tree of your own. Ad. 
(c) Feng Shui YouTube Channel. The feng shui money tree plant is one of the most popular plants used as a feng shui cure in the classical feng shui money applications. The money tree plant is used as a feng shui cure to attract the energy of wealth and prosperity. There is the money tree plant with the botanical name Pachira Aquatica, and then there is also the feng shui money plant with the botanical name Crassula Ovata.
Botanical Name: Pachira aquatica. Money tree plant care is easy. Just put it where it'll get some indirect sunlight. Water thoroughly and allow the soil to dry out a bit between waterings. Cut back on water in the winter when growth slows. Use a container with drainage holes and take care not to overwater your plant because it can get root rot. 
The Feng Shui Money Tree or Money Plant is a symbolic tool that is used attract wealth, money, and prosperity into your life. The magic is in the symbolism, not the plant! Anything you use as a reminder of your intention becomes a “symbol” – a representation of something greater than the object itself. The plant most commonly referred to as a Money Tree is the Pachira Aquatica, a tropical plant that is popularly sold with the trunks braided and often decorated with red ribbons or coins. The shape of the leaves – with five leaflets attached to one Leaf – represent the five elements of Chinese Feng Shui.
We all know money can’t really grow on trees, but there are specific things you can do to attract wealth and good fortune into your life. In essence, you are creating a “money tree” in your home. And you can use an actual money tree to attract fortune into your life. Remember, don't just think of wealth purely in terms of monetary gain; you also want to attract good fortune, personal growth and fulfilling relationships.