The exact cause of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) isn't known. But health experts believe that faulty communication between the brain and the intestinal tract is one cause of symptoms. In some people, this miscommunication causes abnormal muscle contractions or spasms, which often cause cramping pain.
1 Anticholinergic medications such as dicyclomine may help with nausea, but can result in constipation, dry mouth, sleepiness, and your ability to sweat. 2  Antiemetic medications such as ondansetron and metoclorpramide work well. 3  However, they can also cause movement disorders, low blood pressure, and drowsiness.
In some cases, continuous diarrhea that may occur with bowel problems can cause severe, sometimes life-threatening, dehydration. Other serious symptoms may occur. Seek immediate medical care (call 911) if you, or someone you are with, have any of these life-threatening symptoms including: 1  Fever and chills.
Digestive problems are common in lupus. The symptoms you may experience include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or constipation. Drugs you take for lupus such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and corticosteroids are often the cause.
Symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, primarily affect the digestive tract and include appetite loss, diarrhea, weight loss, rectal bleeding, nausea, and abdominal cramping.
IBD is not the same as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), although the symptoms can be similar. Unlike inflammatory bowel disease, IBS does not cause inflammation or damage in the intestines. In many people with IBD, medicines can control symptoms. But for people with severe IBD, surgery is sometimes needed.
Yes. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) can cause a number of problems outside of the digestive tract. One common problem that occurs because of loss of blood from the digestive tract is anemia (uh-NEE-mee-uh). Anemia means that the amount of healthy red blood cells, which carry oxygen to organs, is below normal.