1 Plant gladiolus bulbs in the spring once danger of frost has passed and the soil has warmed. 2  Ready your garden by using a garden fork or tiller and loosen the soil to about 12 to 15 inches deep. If you live in a warm climate (zone 7-9) you can leave them in the ground. If you live in zone 6 or less, then you need to dig the corms up and store them indoors for the winter. If you wish to prolong your blooming season next year, plant the bulbs at 2-week intervals in the spring.
For a bountiful summer crop of colorful and carefree gladiolus follow these 10 easy steps: Step 2: Work in mulch to loosen and aeriate soil or add your favorite fresh garden soil. The ideal PH is 6.5-6.8. Step 3: Dig holes for gladiolus bulbs 4-6 inches deep and at least 4 inches apart when planting groups. Step 1: After danger of frost, plant new gladiolus bulbs or stored bulbs, cultivating 12 to 15 inches deep where soil will have sun for part or most of the day. Recommended by the National Garden Association. How to Grow Gladiolus.
Gladiolus don't compete well with other plants or weeds, so for best results, keep the area around them open. Gladiolus can be planted about two weeks before the last expected spring frost. It will take 70 to 90 days from planting until flowering. For a continual harvest of flower spikes, plant a few corms every two weeks until early summer. Plant corms 2 to 6 inches deep, depending on their size, and cover with 2 inches of soil. Space corms 5 inches apart in rows or groups of 10 to 15 corms. Once the plants are about 6 inches high, hill up the soil around the base of the plant to help support the stem. 
The baby bulbs need time (ususally 2 years) to mature before they bloom. In the fall dig up the bulbs and replant them in a larger area so that they have more space to grow. if you live in a cold climate store the bulbs and replant in the spring. If you live in a warm climate (zone 7-9) you can leave them in the ground. If you live in zone 6 or less, then you need to dig the corms up and store them indoors for the winter. If you wish to prolong your blooming season next year, plant the bulbs at 2-week intervals
1 You should start your planting of your gladiolus in mid-spring. 2  From that point, make some new plantings every two weeks. 3  They take 70-100 days to grow and flower so planting every couple of weeks gives you flowers right on through summer. 4  If these flowers will be exposed to wind, you will definitely want to stake them. 1 From that point, make some new plantings every two weeks. 2  They take 70-100 days to grow and flower so planting every couple of weeks gives you flowers right on through summer. 3  If these flowers will be exposed to wind, you will definitely want to stake them. 4  Stop planting your gladiolus in summer, around mid-July.
1 Base the size of the corms that you purchase on the size of the glads you want to grow. 2  Choose corms with diameters of 1/2 to 3/4 inches (1.25 to 2 cm) to grow flowers from 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m). 3  Corms with diameters of 1 inch (2.5 cm) or greater grow larger flowers. 1 Choose corms with diameters of 1/2 to 3/4 inches (1.25 to 2 cm) to grow flowers from 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m). 2
You might think that Gladiolus grow from bulbs....wrong! They actually grow from a closely related cousin, the corm. See more on Bulbs, Corms and Rhizomes. How to Grow Gladiolus Bulbs : Plant Gladiolus in the spring. They can be grown in rows, or bunches. They will tolerate a little crowding, but will grow bigger if spaced out. Gladiolus plants prefer a rich, soft soil, and plenty of water. 
1 Add a layer of unfertilized soil before placing the corm into the trench. 2  You should start your planting of your gladiolus in mid-spring. 3  From that point, make some new plantings every two weeks. 4  They take 70-100 days to grow and flower so planting every couple of weeks gives you flowers right on through summer. 1 From that point, make some new plantings every two weeks. 2  They take 70-100 days to grow and flower so planting every couple of weeks gives you flowers right on through summer. 3  If these flowers will be exposed to wind, you will definitely want to stake them. 4  Stop planting your gladiolus in summer, around mid-July.
Gladioli are beautiful plants, grown from corms or bulbs, and a favorite of many gardeners. They are perennials with striking flowers and tall long stems that grow 2 to 6 feet in height. Due to their height, many people often wonder if it’s possible to have a gladiolus container garden. Plant bulbs 3 to 6 inches deep and 2 to 3 inches apart with the flat side down. Many growers plant gladiolus at two-week intervals for continuous blooms. After you’ve planted your bulbs, water them generously. Soak the soil so that it settles around the bulb.