The skeletal muscle relaxants are a diverse set of drugs that are used for treating muscle spasticity or spasms, which can cause pain and interfere with your functional ability.
Typically, muscle relaxants are prescribed early in a course of back pain, on a short-term basis, to relieve low back pain associated with muscle spasms. There are several types of muscle relaxant medications that are commonly used to treat low back pain.
Muscle relaxants are just one of the many types of medications that can be used to treat spasticity or spasms. Other medications that are sometimes used as muscle relaxants but don't carry FDA approval for this purpose include benzodiazepines, such as diazepam (Valium and generics), and botulinum toxin (Botox).
Muscle relaxants are also used to relax the neck and throat and reduce the risk of injury when an endotracheal (ET) tube is inserted. They may also be used to relax the chest muscles when an ET tube is used to help a person breathe (mechanical ventilation).
Muscle relaxants are sometimes used to treat other conditions-for example, diazepam is sometimes used to treat difficulty with sleeping (insomnia). The rest of this leaflet only discusses the use of baclofen, dantrolene, diazepam, tizanidine, and cannabis extract when they are used as muscle relaxants.
Answer: Muscle relaxants are typically used to treat acute muscle problems, though they are sometimes incorporated into the treatment of chronic pain conditions that involve painful muscle spasms. These medicines act at several sites in the body to reduce muscle tone and relax tight, tense muscles.
Muscle relaxants are also used routinely during the insertion of an endotracheal (ET) tube to relax the muscles in the neck and throat, which reduces the risk of injury. They may also be used to relax the chest muscles when an endotracheal tube is used to help a person breathe (mechanical ventilation).
Muscle relaxants are medicines that are used to prevent and reduce muscle spasms and spasticity. Muscle spasms occur when there is an uncontrolled (involuntary) contraction of a group of muscles. The muscles usually shorten (contract) suddenly; this is often painful.
Medications for Back Pain Video. Muscle relaxants are not really a class of drugs, but rather a group of different drugs that each has an overall sedative effect on the body. These drugs do not act directly on the muscles; rather they act centrally (in the brain) and are more of a total body relaxant.