Location: Egypt; connects the Red Sea and Gulf of Suez with the Mediterranean Sea. In Egypt. Egypt. Suez Canal and Sumed Pipeline. Location: Egypt; connects the Red Sea and Gulf of Suez with the Mediterranean Sea. In Egypt. Egypt. The Suez Canal is located in Africa, and more specifically located in Egypt. The Canal takes off north from the northernmost point of the Gulf, where the city of Suez may be indicated. It is a waterway located in Egypt. It connects the Red Sea and the Gulf of Suez with the Mediterranean Sea! ~I hope this helps you~ :). It is a waterway located in Egypt.
In addition to dramatically reducing transit time for trade worldwide, the Suez Canal is one of the world's most significant waterways as it supports 8% of the world's shipping traffic and almost 50 ships pass through the canal daily. The Suez Canal can accommodate ships with a vertical height (draft) of 62 feet (19 m) or 210,000 deadweight tons. Most of the Suez Canal is not wide enough for two ships to pass side by side. To accommodate this, there is one shipping lane and several passing bays where ships can wait for others to pass.
The Suez Canal is in Egypt. It connects the Gulf of Suez with the Mediterranean Sea. There are three main cities along the canal: Suez, Ismailia, and Port Saeed/Said. The Suez Canal joins the Gulf of Suez to the Mediterranean Sea, running generally north-south, and passing roughly 80 miles east of Cairo at its closest. The Canal takes off north from the northernmost point of the Gulf, where the city of Suez may be indicated. It is a waterway located in Egypt. It connects the Red Sea and the Gulf of Suez with the Mediterranean Sea! ~I hope this helps you~ :). It is a waterway located in Egypt.
Suez Canal-Map & Details. The Suez Canal, mostly man made, connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea through the Gulf of Suez. The canal opened in 1869, and remains one of the planet's busiest shipping lanes. Through it the vast percentage of Europe's energy needs are transported from the Middle East oil fields. 
A new stretch of the canal was opened in 2015. The northern terminus is Port Said, where there are two outlets to the sea; the southern terminus is Port Tewfik at the city of Suez, where there is one outlet to the sea. Ismailia is on its west bank, 3 km (1.9 mi) from the half-way point. In 2012, 17,225 vessels traversed the canal (47 per day)
Read more. The Suez Canal is an artificial waterway in Egypt extending from Port Said to Suez and connecting the Mediterranean Sea with the Red Sea. It is one of the world's most important waterways ... Read more NEW SUEZ CANAL SUEZ CANAL TRANSIT TOLLS This is an online Toll Calculator for Suez Canal Transit. 
[esseˈweːs]) is a seaport city (population ca. 497,000) in north-eastern Egypt, located on the north coast of the Gulf of Suez (a branch of the Red Sea), near the southern terminus of the Suez Canal, having the same boundaries as Suez governorate. The Israeli-British-French invasion of Egypt which followed is known in Egypt as the Tripartite Aggression but elsewhere as the Suez Crisis. Following Israel's invasion and occupation of Egypt's Sinai Peninsula in the Six Day War of 1967, the Canal was closed, and did not reopen until 1975.
The Suez Canal (map) , located in Egypt, is a 101 mile (163 km) long canal that connects the Mediterranean Sea with the Gulf of Suez, a northern branch of the Red Sea. It officially opened in November 1869. The Suez Canal can accommodate ships with a vertical height (draft) of 62 feet (19 m) or 210,000 deadweight tons. Most of the Suez Canal is not wide enough for two ships to pass side by side. To accommodate this, there is one shipping lane and several passing bays where ships can wait for others to pass.
Today, the Suez Canal is operated by the Suez Canal Authority. The canal itself is 101 miles (163 km) long and 984 feet (300 m) wide. It begins at the Mediterranean Sea at Point Said flows through Ismailia in Egypt, and ends at Suez on the Gulf of Suez. It also has a railroad running its entire length parallel to its west bank. The Suez Canal can accommodate ships with a vertical height (draft) of 62 feet (19 m) or 210,000 deadweight tons. Most of the Suez Canal is not wide enough for two ships to pass side by side. To accommodate this, there is one shipping lane and several passing bays where ships can wait for others to pass.