INTRODUCTION The Biofeedback Society of Illinois (BSI) is a statewide organization of clinicians, researchers, educators, and students interested in the application of applied psychophysiology and biofeedback training for the treatment and prevention of a variety of medical and psychological conditions. It is a State Chapter of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB). BSI provides continuing education, consumer referrals, and access to resources about biofeedback therapy and provider training.
Control Anxiety with Biofeedback. Biofeedback is a clinically-proven therapy that uses biofeedback equipment to monitor and display your physiological activity to expand your awareness and increase control of your body. Biofeedback training methods may combine cognitive behavior therapy (CBT), which is a form of psychotherapy, with one or more kinds of biofeedback training, including: 1  EEG biofeedback (brain electrical activity). 2  EMG biofeedback (skeletal muscle activity). 3  heart rate variability biofeedback (timing between heartbeats).
Biofeedback techniques use biofeedback instruments to increase your awareness and control of your physiological performance. A clinician’s biofeedback instructions are guided by the information provided by the biofeedback devices suggested by the psychophysiological profile. Biofeedback training methods may combine cognitive behavior therapy (CBT), which is a form of psychotherapy, with one or more kinds of biofeedback training, including: 1  EEG biofeedback (brain electrical activity). 2  EMG biofeedback (skeletal muscle activity). 3  heart rate variability biofeedback (timing between heartbeats).
The definition reads: Biofeedback is a process that enables an individual to learn how to change physiological activity for the purposes of improving health and performance. Precise instruments measure physiological activity such as brainwaves, heart function, breathing, muscle activity, and skin temperature. Some of the processes that can be controlled include brainwaves, muscle tone, skin conductance, heart rate and pain perception. Biofeedback may be used to improve health, performance, and the physiological changes that often occur in conjunction with changes to thoughts, emotions, and behavior. Eventually, these changes may be maintained without the use of extra equipment, for no equipment is necessarily required to practice biofeedback
9081X Approximately 45-50 minutes. 90875 Individual psychophysiological therapy incorporating biofeedback training by any modality (face-to-face with the patient) e.g. insight oriented, behavior modifying or supportive psychotherapy) approximately 20-30 minutes. 
Biofeedback is an umbrella term for various types of treatments that teach psychophysiological self-regulation. There are many different forms of biofeedback, including electromyography (EMG), temperature, heart-rate variability (HRV), and electrodermal response (EDR). One the principles of biofeedback is that there is reciprocal relationship between the brain and body. This means that not only does the brain control the body, but the body controls the brain. The brain constantly monitors the body for changes. Biofeedback is also grounded in the behavioral sciences.
It is used in physical rehabilitation, behavioral medicine, and psychotherapy. It is used for improving performance in sport and in the arts. When biofeedback training is used in conjunction with other psychophysiological treatment methods it is called biofeedback therapy. CLINICAL APPLICATIONS There are a wide variety of applications for the use of biofeedback therapy. It is a State Chapter of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB). BSI provides continuing education, consumer referrals, and access to resources about biofeedback therapy and provider training.
Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback is an international, interdisciplinary journal devoted to study of the interrelationship of physiological systems, cognition, social and environmental parameters, and health. 
Biofeedback has been found to be effective for the treatment of headaches and migraines. Some of the processes that can be controlled include brainwaves, muscle tone, skin conductance, heart rate and pain perception. Biofeedback may be used to improve health, performance, and the physiological changes that often occur in conjunction with changes to thoughts, emotions, and behavior. Eventually, these changes may be maintained without the use of extra equipment, for no equipment is necessarily required to practice biofeedback