1 Temperature: Germination can take place over a wide range of temperature and is specific to individual crop types, and can be specific to varieties. 2  The optimum for most crops is between 65-75 F, but exceptions do apply. 1 If soil conditions are too wet, an anaerobic condition persists, and seeds may not be able to germinate. 2 
Planting: Beets (Beta vulgaris) are cool-season plants that grow best at temperatures between 60 and 65 °F. The optimum soil temperature for seed germination is 55 to 75 °F. Beets prefer soil that is loamy or sandy. Plant radish seed in rows 12 to 24 inches apart and place the seed ½-inch deep with about 1 inch between seeds. Radish can be broadcast-seeded in a 12-inch bed and then thinned when plants are in the one to two true leaf stage.
The effect of soil temperature on sown seeds. The chart below displays the relationship between soil temperature, days to emergence, and the percentage of sown seeds to germinate: As you might expect, the percentage of any seeds to germinate is maximum at the optimal temperature for that species. Sowing Seeds Indoors. The average gardener finds the optimal germination temperature for any seed printed on the seed packet or in the seed catalog. Sometimes, the instructions offer only a month to sow outdoors, or the number of weeks before last frost to sow indoors.
For most crops, there is a temperature range just above the minimum germination temperature where the rate of germination is reduced. Spring seeding should not begin until soil temperature at seeding depth reaches or exceeds the required minimum. Shallow depths warm up first. 
Carrot. Planting: Carrots (Daucus carota) are cool-season plants that grow best at average temperatures between 60 and 65 °F. The optimum soil temperature for seed germination is 55 to 75 °F. Seeds will not germinate above 95 °F. Plant radish seed in rows 12 to 24 inches apart and place the seed ½-inch deep with about 1 inch between seeds. Radish can be broadcast-seeded in a 12-inch bed and then thinned when plants are in the one to two true leaf stage.
The optimum temperature is 50 to 65 °F. Optimum soil temperature for seed germination is 45 to 85 °F. Radish seed will not germinate when the soil temperature is above 95 °F. Spring-planted radishes should be harvested early. The flavor of the radish bulb is also dependent on temperature. Plant radish seed in rows 12 to 24 inches apart and place the seed ½-inch deep with about 1 inch between seeds. Radish can be broadcast-seeded in a 12-inch bed and then thinned when plants are in the one to two true leaf stage.
Though some seeds germinate best at a soil temperature of 60 degrees F, and some at 85 degrees, most prefer a temperature of about 78 degrees. If the soil is too cold, seeds may take much longer to germinate, or they may not germinate at all. After germination, most seedlings grow best if the air temperature is below 70 degrees F. If temperatures are too warm (over 75), the seedlings will grow too fast and get weak and leggy. Most seedlings grow fine in air temperatures as low as 50 degrees, as long as soil temperature is maintained at about 65 to 70.
1. Uneven corn emergence in 2006 due to uneven (too wet vs. just right) seedbed soil moisture. Adequate and uniform soil temperature at the seed zone. Corn will germinate and emerge slowly and/or unevenly when soil temperatures are less than 50F. When soils warm to the mid-50's or warmer, emergence will occur in seven days or less if soil moisture is adequate. Fig. 2. Example of the effect of soil temperature on the timing of corn emergence. Adequate and uniform seed-to-soil contact. In order for the kernel to imbibe (absorb) soil moisture quickly and uniformly, good seed-to-soil contact is vital.
1 Temperature influence on growth – Seeds of cool season crops germinate at 40°F to 80°F. Warm season crop seeds germinate at 50°F to 90°F. 2  In the spring, cool soil temperatures are a limiting factor for plant growth. 3  In mid-summer, hot soil temperatures may prohibit seed germination. 
That is the fundamental relationship between germination and temperature. For every species of seed, there is an optimal soil temperature for germination, and at that temperature, the maximum number of seeds will germinate and in less time than at any other temperature. Sowing Seeds Indoors. The average gardener finds the optimal germination temperature for any seed printed on the seed packet or in the seed catalog. Sometimes, the instructions offer only a month to sow outdoors, or the number of weeks before last frost to sow indoors.