In the comprehensive web-site www.artero.com, clients can enjoy a wide range of services such as tracking the stage of their repairs and scissor sharpening in the Artero work-shop, on-line catalogue, job adverts, notice board, and much, much more. The original business was based on the sales of tools for shearing large animals such as cows and sheep. Artero is now a reference in the sectors of animal grooming, hairdressing and kitchenware, as both manufacturers and distributors.
Artero Consulting Srl, Design Company specializzata in Branding e Communication con una forte attitudine internazionale coniugata con una particolare attenzione italiana allo stile. 
View the Artero Gallery. The Artero is a unique exotic sports car designed by PISA. Its design revolves around a curvaceous wedge shape accented by aggressive air scoops, vents, and grills. The Artero kit is hand laid fiberglass with the exterior panels finished in gray primer gelcoat. The interior and finish panels are finished in black gelcoat.
Support System. We have created a new support system to help the players with things like recoveries, donations, etc. All you have to do is make a ticket and fill out the information, and a staff member will answer you when they can. support.arteropk.com. 
Artero Cuchilleria cuchillería was founded in 1909 In manresa By Pascual, artero great-grand father of the actual directors of the: Business alex And Edu. Artero the original business was based on the sales of tools for shearing large animals such as cows and. sheep The original business was based on the sales of tools for shearing large animals such as cows and sheep. Artero is now a reference in the sectors of animal grooming, hairdressing and kitchenware, as both manufacturers and distributors.
The Artero Intensifying Colour Bath is an effective formula in the elimination of yellow tones fom white coats and enhancement of white, black, grey or brown coats. Gives shining and bright results. Does NOT contain washing properties it is a colour intensifying product. The vitamin complex deeply nourishes the coat, and the moisturising and oil restoring components help recover the natural texture of the hair, leaving it soft, shiny and full of vitality. Apply on wet hair, massage to create creamy abundant lather. Then rinse off.
In the mid to late nineties they opened shops in Madrid and Valencia, and more recently they have opened a show-room in Vilassar de Dalt, covering the northern areas of Barcelona. Nowadays Artero is present in countries all over the world, inlcuding Europe, Russia, Asia, Mexico, Argentina, USA, Canada, etc. The original business was based on the sales of tools for shearing large animals such as cows and sheep. Artero is now a reference in the sectors of animal grooming, hairdressing and kitchenware, as both manufacturers and distributors.
Artero. Beauty For Animals, the care of our pet's coat requires the use of specific products, designed and manufactured under strict quality controls, combining the experience of groomers, vets and breeders alike. The Artero cosmetics line is produced in Barcelona with natural products that protect our pet's coat and skin. None of our ingredients are animal based. They full Artero Cosmetic range has been certified by the Spanish government and has been registered in the U.S.A
In the sector of Pet Grooming, Artero offers a unique range of cosmetics for animals, scissors, dryers, clippers, tables, cages, tools, etc. (own-brand and others). Artero offers informative courses and events all throughout the year in Spain and also in other countries. The original business was based on the sales of tools for shearing large animals such as cows and sheep. Artero is now a reference in the sectors of animal grooming, hairdressing and kitchenware, as both manufacturers and distributors.