Now, here’s how to clean your ceramic top stove when you have a big burned on mess. I was cooking some rice and it boiled over so I decided to run with it and poured some milk on the rest of the burners, turned them on and let it get good and burned.
Steps to Clean a Glass Cooktop: Tools you will need: 1  Paper towel or clean dish cloth-to wipe up lose debris from stovetop. 2  Hot soapy water-I fill the sink, or you could fill a bucket or bowl (use 1-2 tablespoons dish liquid for soap). 3  Baking soda (about a cup – enough to sprinkle over stovetop surface).
Also, once the cooktop is heated, ammonia can leave iridescent stains on the surface. Other cooks, finding ammonia too weak to clean a glass-ceramic stovetop, turn to abrasive chemical cleaners, such as Ajax or Comet, or use abrasive sponges like Scotch-Brite Scour Pads.
The best way to clean ­a ceramic cooktop is to sprinkle a nonabrasive cleanser or baking soda over the surface and rub with a synthetic scouring pad or sponge. Rinse well with clear water, and buff with a soft cloth for a clean finish. Here are a few other handy suggestions: 1  Wait until the top cools to wipe up spills.
If you don’t have a green scratchy pad or a Chore Boy then you can use baking soda to clean your glass top stove. Just pour a little baking soda on a wet rag. Then scrub with baking soda until all the burned food is off.
Prevent dried-on messes by cleaning your cooktop burners after each use. Use a glass cooktop cleaner and paper towels to remove fresh stains and to keep the surface shiny. This prevents the spills from hardening and possibly damaging the finish.
To start cleaning your glass top stove after it has cooled, first wipe as much as you can with just a wet wash cloth and some dish soap. Then take your scraper and hold it at an angle and just scrape off as much burned on food as possible. About 90% off the burned on food will come off simply by scraping.
Now get a clean cloth and wipe the hot mess off your purty stove. You are going to notice that it will take several passes with the cloth to remove all the baking soda leftovers. It will probably leave a cloudy residue on your glass.
How To Clean A Ceramic Top Stove. Clean it right away – as soon as your stove is cool, wipe it right away with soap and a dish rag. Clean it every day – if you wipe it up each day after you’re done cooking it will be a lot quicker, like 30 seconds, rather than spending 5 minutes doing a big clean up.
How to clean your glass-ceramic cooktop. If you’re seeking a simple stovetop cleaning method that doesn’t compromise cleanliness or integrity, here’s a step-by-step guide for how to clean a glass cooktop. The following tips are the absolute best way to clean a