Most veterinarians recommend you have your female puppy spayed or male puppy neutered by six months of age. Having the procedure done sooner rather than later can benefit your new puppy in a number of ways. 
Reasons for Early Neutering. Neutering dogs at an early age can actually keep some dogs from developing negative behavior patterns. Issues may include: 1  Aggressive behavior in some male dogs once they become sexually mature. 2  Territorial marking can be another problematic issue may occur in dogs that haven't been neutered
For both male and female Rotties spayed or neutered before one year of age, there was a one in four lifetime risk for bone cancer, and the sterilized animals were significantly more likely to develop the disease than intact dogs of the same breed. 
1 Once male pups are eight weeks old, it's likely that their testicles have fully descended, which is a necessary condition for performing the surgery. 2  According to the ASPCA, spaying and neutering can occur as early as eight weeks. Neutering dogs at an early age can actually keep some dogs from developing negative behavior patterns. Issues may include: 1  Aggressive behavior in some male dogs once they become sexually mature.
It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side. Just in the Atlanta area alone, more than $15 million is spent annually dealing with stray and unwanted pets. That’s your tax dollars
Spay ing and neutering puppies is the responsible thing to do, and it's important to know when to neuter a puppy. When love is in the air, the dogs know it. Girl pups mature more quickly than you might think. They can become pregnant as early as five or six months of age, and most dogs can produce two litters a year. Many shelters neuter puppies when they reach eight weeks of age—or two pounds in weight—before they are placed for adoption. These babies recover more quickly from the surgery than adult animals. They will grow just as much, and sometimes a bit taller, than if fixed later in life.
When to neuter. A male dog can be neutered any time after eight weeks of age. A few years ago, most veterinarians advised waiting until puberty hit at about six months, and some still make that recommendation. Talk to your veterinarian about what’s best for your dog. 1 He can still show interest in females in heat or hump your knee.). 2  In the case of senior dogs, neutering reduces the size of an enlarged prostate. 3  The health and behavioral benefits occur whether your boy is a wee puppy or distinguished senior citizen.
In general, dogs neutered before they go into puberty grow a bit bigger than those neutered after puberty because testosterone is involved in bone growth; sometimes that growth is preferable and sometimes it’s not. Most dogs are sexually mature by the age of five or six months (the blink of an eye). If your dog’s testicles don’t descend, you still need to have him neutered. These dogs tend to have more testicular tumors than normal dogs. 1 He can still show interest in females in heat or hump your knee.). 2  In the case of senior dogs, neutering reduces the size of an enlarged prostate. 3  The health and behavioral benefits occur whether your boy is a wee puppy or distinguished senior citizen.
Adult dogs can be neutered at any age, but the best time is before sexual maturity. For many years, the recommended spay/neuter age was six to nine months. When a puppy’s future involves performance competition, ask your veterinarian and breeder about timing. Delaying for a couple of months may allow the pup to attain better physical development important to these demands. Many shelters neuter puppies when they reach eight weeks of age—or two pounds in weight—before they are placed for adoption. These babies recover more quickly from the surgery than adult animals. They will grow just as much, and sometimes a bit taller, than if fixed later in life.