There are two types of camels in the world: the bactrian and  Arabian. The bactrian camel has two humps and is found in the  deserts of eastern and northern Asia, specifical … ly the Gobi. The  Arabian, as its name suggests, is found in Arabian deserts, and is  the one hump variety. Dromedary camels live in North Western India and the lowlands of Afghanistan. Some dromedary camels live in the outside parts of the Arabian peninsula and Sonila to the south … and westwood across African deserts. A large amount of Dromedary camels also live in an African desert called the Sahara desert, which is the largest desert in the world
Some dromedary camels live in the outside parts of the Arabian peninsula and Sonila to the south … and westwood across African deserts. A large amount of Dromedary camels also live in an African desert called the Sahara desert, which is the largest desert in the world. 11 people found this useful. The  Arabian, as its name suggests, is found in Arabian deserts, and is  the one hump variety. Few of these animals of either variety are  found in the wild any longer.    Camels also roam the Australi
Where do camels live. Camels are native to Asia and live in desert regions. Today, they can be found in Asia, Africa, Europe, the Middle East and Australia. The biggest population of camels is found in Somalia, where they provide milk, transportation and food for the Somalian people. There are also a few camels living in the United States
Habitat. The two types of camel are found in different parts of the world. The dromedary camel, also called an Arabian camel, can be found in North Africa and the Middle East. The Bactrian camel lives in Central Asia. No matter the type, camels are usually found in the desert, prairie or steppe. Camels are mammals with long legs, a big-lipped snout and a humped back. There are two types of camels: dromedary camels, which have one hump, and Bactrian camels, which have two humps. Camels' humps consist of stored fat, which they can metabolize when food and water is scarce.
1 There are two types of camels in the world: the bactrian and Arabian. 2  The bactrian camel has two humps and is found in the deserts of eastern and northern Asia, specifically the Gobi. 3  The Arabian, as its name suggests, is found in Arabian deserts, and is the one hump variety. 1 The bactrian camel has two humps and is found in the deserts of eastern and northern Asia, specifically the Gobi. 2  The Arabian, as its name suggests, is found in Arabian deserts, and is the one hump variety. 3  Few of these animals of either variety are found in the wild any longer
The Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) is a large, even-toed ungulate native to the steppes of Central Asia. Of the two species of camel, it is by far the rarer. The Bactrian camel has two humps on its back, in contrast to the single-humped dromedary camel. Its population of two million exists mainly in the domesticated form.