Going with the Factory Overhaul instead of Factory Rebuild on this engine costs about $27,000. There are some shops out there that are Overhaul Specialists like Charlie's Zephyr Aircraft Engines. They're mechanics who focus almost exclusively on engine overhauls and not too much else. The Real Cost of Engine Overhauls. The base cost of all of these overhauls has some contingency built in. Assuming nothing is majorly wrong with your engine the bottom line of the overhaul will cost Zephyr roughly 65% of their base rate in parts alone.
All three of these locations overhaul your engine, but the pricing isn't as flat: you have a lot more options than the Factory option, which impacts the cost. The base rate for a 180HP IO-360 at Zephyr is $21,000. Technically any A&P/IA can perform an overhaul on an aircraft engine. The Real Cost of Engine Overhauls. The base cost of all of these overhauls has some contingency built in. Assuming nothing is majorly wrong with your engine the bottom line of the overhaul will cost Zephyr roughly 65% of their base rate in parts alone.
By this time, you should've already set a plan for yourself as to what you want to do with your engine. This will help you in picking the exact contents your kit will need. Manufactures know that not everyone needs a complete engine rebuild. 
When overhauling an engine, there are four basic choices for the kind of overhaul you want: Choice 1: Factory Remanufactured Engine. This strictly speaking isn't an overhaul, as it results in a zero-timed engine. You send your run out engine core to the factory, either Continental or Lycoming, and you get back an engine that is built to new engine standards. 
A new Cam adds $700 to the cost. If a whole new crankshaft is desired (or required) you can expect to add another $5,000! So at a price of $26,300, although the engine isn't officially a zero-time engine, you have all new parts (minus the crankcase itself). The Real Cost of Engine Overhauls. The base cost of all of these overhauls has some contingency built in. Assuming nothing is majorly wrong with your engine the bottom line of the overhaul will cost Zephyr roughly 65% of their base rate in parts alone.
The average engine rebuild cost is going to depend on what kind of engine you're rebuilding. An older Volkswagen air-cooled engine can be rebuilt to performance standards for around $300 to $400. A typical water-cooled four cylinder engine can be rebuilt to original specifications for around $400 to $500. A six cylinder engine can be rebuilt to original specification for around $500 to $600. An eight cylinder engine, will cost around $600 to $700 to rebuild to original specifications. If you plan on doing a high performance rebuild on a Chevy small block eight cylinder, you can feasibly spend as much as $1,200 or more if you're not careful
This TBO time is set by the engine manufacture. Overhaul costs can easily run around $18,000 so an aircraft with a run-out engine will cost quite a bit less than one with a newly rebuilt engine. The good news is most pilots who fly for recreation fly fewer than 100 hours per year. As I recall, 35 to 50 hours per year is more typical. Therefore, an average pilot can expect to fly for well over 20 years on a rebuilt engine. As you can imagine, the time SMOH (since major overhaul) drastically affects the value of aircraft.
First is a Deluxe aircraft engine overhaul. Everything from the firewall forward is reconditioned like new or replaced. Cost is about the same as a new engine alone, but you get a lot with this overhaul as it includes new cylinders. It is billed by time and materials only, and includes a 3 year warranty. Second is a Standard aircraft engine overhaul. It includes new mags, ignition harness, overhauled fuel system, starter, alternator and normal wear items, plus more upon request. It cost less than half the price of a factory rebuilt engine
...Learn More. Complete Engine Rebuild Kit Includes: Complete gasket set, pistons, rings, main bearings, rod bearings, thrust washers, freeze plugs, timing belt and oil pump. Engine Kit Includes: Complete gasket set, pistons, rings, main bearings, rod bearings, (thrust washers and freeze plugs if applicable). Re-ring Kit Includes: Complete gasket set, rings, main bearings, rod bearings and thrust washers.