Baby names meanings search results: The name Adley is a baby boy name. The name Adley comes from the Hebrew origin. In Hebrew The meaning of the name Adley is: Judicious. 
Adley is an uncommon first name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#32703 out of 150436, Top 22%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of the boy name Adley and associated names. Adley /ad-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Adley) is of Hebrew derivation, and the meaning of the name Adley is God is just. Adley is an alternate spelling of Adlai (Hebrew). Compare surname Edley
Adley /ad-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Adley). Adley's name origin is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Adley is God is just. Adley is a version of Adlai (Hebrew): also possibly my ornament. Addley is a familiar surname. Kreatif forms: Abley, Adla, Adli. Adley is a rare first name for women but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#32703 out of 150436, Top 22%).
Hebrew Meaning: The name Adley is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Adley is: Judicious. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 2. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. People with this name tend to be quiet, cooperative, considerate, sympathetic to others, adaptable, balanced and sometimes shy. They are trustworthy, respecting the confidences of others, and make excellent diplomats, mediators and partners. They are often very intuitive
Adley is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ad-ley. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5026 in baby name popularity for boys with 18 occurrences. It ranked 1323 in popular baby names for girls with 176 occurrences. View the Adley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Adley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Adley to other names. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.
Just for fun, see the name Adley in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Adley in Nautical Flags page. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.
[ 2 syll. a-dley, ad-l- ey ] The baby boy name Adley is pronounced as AE DLiy †. Adley is largely used in the English language, and it is derived from Hebrew and Turkish origins. Adley is an English variant spelling of the name Adlai (English and Hebrew). Adley is also a variant transcription of the name Adli. Adley is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Adley has also been used as a girl name.