Bananas and avocados are, ounce for ounce, the richest sources of potassium. One banana contains about 467 milligrams (mg) of potassium, and both Florida and California avocados contain over 1,000 mg of potassium. Although avocados are highly caloric because of their high fat content, they are rich in monounsaturated fats, the kind of fat that's good for you. To add more potassium to your diet, consider splashing these foods onto your plate: 1  Baked white or sweet potatoes, cooked greens (such as spinach), winter squash (orange). 2  Bananas, plantains, many dried fruits, oranges and orange juice, cantaloupe and honeydew melons. 3  Cooked dry beans.
Many ingredients in our daily diet are good natural sources of magnesium. There are various natural sources of magnesium that also contain potassium. Leafy vegetables, cereals, milk products, nuts, legumes, and fruits are all good food sources of magnesium. It is always... Among fruits, bananas are one of the richest natural sources of magnesium. They are also rich in potassium. Raisins contain magnesium as do figs. Figs, good sources of potassium and magnesium, help treat acute constipation.
Green leafy vegetables, especially spinach, are a good source of magnesium. Supplementing our diet with an adequate quantity of natural sources of magnesium will prevent being prone to diseases such as asthma, diabetes, and osteoporosis. Broccoli is another good food source of magnesium. Among fruits, bananas are one of the richest natural sources of magnesium. They are also rich in potassium. Raisins contain magnesium as do figs. Figs, good sources of potassium and magnesium, help treat acute constipation.
Basic Description. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System. Summary of Food Sources. Probably the first food that comes to mind when thinking about potassium is the banana. This is not wrong—by our Rating System, bananas are a good source of potassium. But there are 32 foods on our Rating Chart with more potassium per calorie than the banana. Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Some legumes, fish, and dairy products can also make important contributions to our daily potassium intake; yet, because these foods have more calories, they are not as highly rated by our Nutrient Richness
Squash is a good source of potassium. Beans are a good source of potassium. Avocado is high in potassium. Kiwis are packed with potassium, an essential mineral that helps the body maintain proper levels of hydration and electrolytes. Yogurt is high in calcium and potassium. All of the following foods have potassium values per 1 cup serving greater than 400 milligrams, and many approach 700 milligrams. Root vegetables including potatoes, beets, parsnips, turnips, and rutabagas are the highest in potassium, and are delicious in roasts: a single baked potato with skin has 700 milligrams.
Bananas. If you’ve heard about any potassium-rich foods, you probably know that bananas are a good source, containing more than 400 mg of potassium each. Bananas make a healthy high-energy snack – more beneficial to athletes than sports drinks, according to at least one study. 1 Holly Clark/Stocksy Potatoes Whether they’re red, white, or sweet, potatoes can be a great source of potassium; about 900 mg of the nutrient can be found in just one medium Russet potato. 2  These popular complex carbs are also high in vitamin C, vitamin B6, iron, and fiber (especially in the skin).
Updated:Aug 14,2014. Many of the elements of the D.A.S.H. eating plan --- fruits, vegetables, fat-free or lowfat (1 percent) dairy foods and fish --- are good natural sources of potassium. A diet that includes natural sources of potassium is important in controlling blood pressure because potassium lessens the effects of sodium. The recommended daily intake of potassium for an average adult is about 4,700 milligrams per day. But potassium should be considered as only part of your total dietary pattern. 
Some of the best sources of potassium are dark leafy greens such as spinach, which when cooked has more than 800 mg of potassium per cup; bok choy, which contains around 600 mg per cup when boiled, and Swiss chard, which has almost 1,000 mg per cooked cup. 1 Holly Clark/Stocksy Potatoes Whether they’re red, white, or sweet, potatoes can be a great source of potassium; about 900 mg of the nutrient can be found in just one medium Russet potato. 2  These popular complex carbs are also high in vitamin C, vitamin B6, iron, and fiber (especially in the skin).