1 A very high-end boarding facility, such as a dog retreat with home-like private bungalows or an urban dog hotel -- with amenities such as rugs, real furniture, art, plasma televisions and premium food -- usually costs $40 to $110 per day. 1 Many boarding facilities charge by weight or size -- as much as 50 percent more for a dog that weighs more than 80 pounds or requires a large suite.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Depending on the quality that you are looking for, anywhere from $10 per day to $50 per day. If you type Dog Boarding + (your city) in GOOGLE and hit feeling lucky it should get you to a good website, or just check your yellow pages. Here, those two dogs would be $26 at one place, and $35 at the other..I have a dog sitter come for $20 per day, for two visits per day..so you might call around or check for any ads posted at your local pet supply shops.
You would have to call the kennel or boarding facility to know for sure. I pay $ 12 a day per dog for my large dogs (the largest is a Bernese Mountain Dog and the other is a Belgian Malinois) but that is because it is an indoor/outdoor boarding kennel. I usually charge $ 10-30 a day. Reply. chetco says. Here, those two dogs would be $ 26 at one place, and $ 35 at the other..I have a dog sitter come for $ 20 per day, for two visits per day..so you might call around or check for any ads posted at your local pet supply shops.
You would have to call the kennel or boarding facility to know for sure. I pay $12 a day per dog for my large dogs (the largest is a Bernese Mountain Dog and the other is a Belgian Malinois) but that is because it is an indoor/outdoor boarding kennel. Here, those two dogs would be $26 at one place, and $35 at the other..I have a dog sitter come for $20 per day, for two visits per day..so you might call around or check for any ads posted at your local pet supply shops.
1 A basic dog boarding facility -- which usually has indoor kennels with cement floors attached to outdoor runs enclosed by chain-link fencing -- usually costs $12 to $26 per day. 1 Many boarding facilities charge by weight or size -- as much as 50 percent more for a dog that weighs more than 80 pounds or requires a large suite.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It all depends on location, things provided, and the reputation of the kennel. We board our dogs--doesn't matter of size--at a kennel that has been open for about 20 years. They just raised their price to $8.00, from $6.00 a night, for the first time since they opened. Just once we boarded the dogs at a higher class kennel. The price was $14.00 a night. At pickup, I found that walking your dog was an additional $4.00 a day.
Dog Kennel Cost. 1  A basic dog boarding facility -- which usually has indoor kennels with cement floors attached to outdoor runs enclosed by chain-link fencing -- usually costs $12 to $26 per day. 1 Many boarding facilities charge by weight or size -- as much as 50 percent more for a dog that weighs more than 80 pounds or requires a large suite.
Answer by fosterpug. Depending on the quality that you are looking for, anywhere from $ 10 per day to $ 50 per day. If you type Dog Boarding + (your city) in GOOGLE and hit feeling lucky it should get you to a good website, or just check your yellow pages. I usually charge $ 10-30 a day. Reply. chetco says. Here, those two dogs would be $ 26 at one place, and $ 35 at the other..I have a dog sitter come for $ 20 per day, for two visits per day..so you might call around or check for any ads posted at your local pet supply shops.
1 On average, plan on spending $10 to $30 per day for a lower-end boarding company while a higher-class “resort” can cost upwards of $45 to $65 per day. 2  For example, the popular pet store chain PetSmart offers a service called “Pets Hotel.” Here, the prices can range anywhere from $25 to $100 per night. 1 If food and snacks have to be provided, plan on spending $5 to $15 more per day than if you sent food with the dog. 2  Most boarding companies will ask that you bring your own food, especially if the dog is on a strict diet.
Report Abuse. Anything from 10 to 25 a night per dog in a kennel. I pay 15 per night at the kennel I use but by putting three into one large kennel I get a reduction. So you are looking at 100+ per week and the cost of kennel cough vaccine three weeks before admission and they will need proof of vaccinations being up to date. Watch the timings as if you are late collecting they charge another day. 