chromatin. Chromatin is a complex of DNA and proteins that forms chromosomes within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Nuclear DNA does not appear in free linear strands; it is highly condensed and wrapped around nuclear proteins in order to fit inside the nucleus. Chromatin exists in two forms. During cell division, the structure of the chromatin and chromosomes are visible under a light microscope, and they change in shape as the DNA is duplicated and separated into two cells. Further Exploration.
DNA and histone proteins are packaged into structures called chromosomes. In the nucleus of each cell, the DNA molecule is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes. Each chromosome is made up of DNA tightly coiled many times around proteins called histones that support its structure. Chromosomes are not visible in the cell’s nucleus—not even under a microscope—when the cell is not dividing. However, the DNA that makes up chromosomes becomes more tightly packed during cell division and is then visible under a microscope
New techniques are allowing the imaging of DNA with conventional optical microscopes as well, he said, but they are in their infancy. Chromosomes, the spiraling strands of DNA that package the series of chemical bits called genes, are easily visible through a strong enough microscope if the right stain is used. In fact, the development in the 19th century of aniline dyes that make the chromosomes stand out led to their discovery. 
Chromosomes are made up of a DNA-protein complex called chromatin that is organized into subunits called nucleosomes. The way in which eukaryotes compact and arrange their chromatin not only allows a large amount of DNA to fit in a small space, but it also helps regulate gene expression. eBooks. This condensed form is approximately 10,000 times shorter than the linear DNA strand would be if it was devoid of proteins and pulled taut. However, when eukaryotic cells are not dividing — a stage called interphase — the chromatin within their chromosomes is less tightly packed.
Individual strands of DNA are too small to be visible to the eye. One million threads of DNA fit onto the period at the end of a sentence using Times New Roman, font 12 in WORD. The reason why we are able to see DNA in this activity is that there are so many of them, clumped together. 
DNA cannot be visualized under a regular light microscope. In order to see an individual strand if DNA, an electron microscope is required. Under the electron microsco … pe, DNA looks like a string with beads (histone proteins) on it. 4 people found this useful. That is when the DNA is condensed, at which time it is called chromosome.
1 Chromosomes are made of protein & a long, single, tightly-coiled DNA molecule visible only when the cell divides. 2  When a cell is not dividing the DNA is less visible & is called chromatin. 3  DNA in eukaryotic cells wraps tightly around proteins called histones to help pack the DNA during cell division. 
DNA Basics. The nucleus is a membrane bound organelle that contains the genetic information in the form of chromatin, highly folded ribbon-like complexes of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and a class of proteins called histones. During interphase (between divisions), chromatin is more extended, a form used for expression genetic information. The DNA of chromatin is wrapped around a complex of histones making what can appear in the electron microscope as beads on a string or nucleosomes.
Figure 2: A the appearance of DNA during interphase versus mitosis. During interphase, the cell's DNA is not condensed and is loosely distributed. A stain for heterochromatin (which indicates the position of chromosomes) shows this broad distribution of chromatin in a mouse cell (upper left). The same stain also shows the organized, aligned structure of the chromosomes during mitosis. This condensed form is approximately 10,000 times shorter than the linear DNA strand would be if it was devoid of proteins and pulled taut. However, when eukaryotic cells are not dividing — a stage called interphase — the chromatin within their chromosomes is less tightly packed.