Scalp (Definition). Scalp is the part of the skin on the skull, deeply attached to the skull and has the hair shafts from it.Rest of the skin in the head like facial skin(beard) has only 2 layers-epidermis and dermis.
Be careful with this advice. Sometimes an itchy scalp means you have a scalp condition which needs to be diagnosed by a dermatologist. I have seborrheic dermatitis, which is extremely common. It causes itchiness and flaky, scaly patches of skin on the scalp, parts of the face, upper back, etc. Anywhere there are oil glands. 
The skin that covers the top of the head. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Context example: they wanted to take his scalp as a trophy. Hypernyms (scalp is a kind of...): cutis; skin; tegument (a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch). Familiarity information: SCALP used as a noun is very rare. • SCALP (verb). The verb SCALP has 2 senses: 1. sell illegally, as on the black market. 2. remove the scalp of. Familiarity information: SCALP used as a verb is rare.
The noun SCALP has 1 sense: 1. the skin that covers the top of the head. Familiarity information: SCALP used as a noun is very rare. • SCALP (verb). The verb SCALP has 2 senses: 1. sell illegally, as on the black market. 2. remove the scalp of. Familiarity information: SCALP used as a verb is rare.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: scalp (verb). the skin that covers the top of the head. they wanted to take his scalp as a trophy. scalp (verb). sell illegally, as on the black market. scalp (verb). remove the scalp of. The enemies were scalped. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: scalp (Noun). The top of the head; the skull. Some tribes used to collect scalps to prove how many of the enemy they had killed in battle. scalp (Noun). The part of the head where the hair grows from, or used to grow from. scalp (Noun)
Noun. 1. scalp-the skin that covers the top of the head; they wanted to take his scalp as a trophy. cutis, skin, tegument-a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch; your skin is the largest organ of your body. human head-the head of a human being. scalp. 1. the skin of the upper part of the head, usu. covered with hair. 2. a part of the human scalp taken from the head of an enemy as a sign of victory. 3. any token of victory.
Many people think that a dry scalp is synonymous with dandruff, but either a dry scalp or an overly oily scalp can cause excess cells to clump and fall off, forming dandruff flakes. A number of skin conditions and other causes can make your scalp flaky. 
Full Definition of SCALP. 1. a: the part of the integument of the human head usually covered with hair in both sexes b: the part of an animal (as a wolf or fox) corresponding to the human scalp. 2. a: a part of the human scalp with attached hair cut or torn from an enemy as a token of victory b: a trophy of victory or accomplishment.