Background. Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is by far the most common and most malignant of the glial tumors. Attention was drawn to this form of brain cancer when Senator Ted Kennedy was diagnosed with glioblastoma and ultimately died from it. Glioblastoma multiforme is the most frequent primary brain tumor, accounting for approximately 12-15% of all intracranial neoplasms and 50-60% of all astrocytic tumors. In most European and North American countries, incidence is approximately 2-3 new cases per 100,000 people per year.
Glioblastoma Multiforme. Summary. Glioblastoma Multiforme, also known as a GBM or grade IV astrocytoma, is the most common and malignant type of tumors originating in the brain (also known as primary brain tumors).
A glioblastoma (glee-oh-blast-oh-ma) multiforme belongs to the most common type of primary brain tumor in adults, the astrocytomas. A primary brain tumor is one that begins in the brain rather than having spread there from a different part of the body. There are more than 120 types of primary brain tumors. 
Glioblastomas (GBM) are tumors that arise from astrocytes—the star-shaped cells that make up the “glue-like,” or supportive tissue of the brain. These tumors are usually highly malignant (cancerous) because the cells reproduce quickly and they are supported by a large network of blood vessels. Location. 
Glioblastoma Multiforme. Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) (also called glioblastoma) is a fast-growing glioma that develops from star-shaped glial cells (astrocytes and oligodendrocytes) that support the health of the nerve cells within the brain. GBM is often referred to as a grade IV astrocytoma. 
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), also known as glioblastoma and grade IV astrocytoma, is the most common and most aggressive malignant primary brain tumor. About 50% of the people diagnosed with GBM die within one year, while 90% within three years. Treatment can involve chemotherapy, radiation and surgery. Median survival with standard-of-care radiation and chemotherapy with temozolomide is 15 months.
General Discussion. Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common malignant primary brain tumor. These tumors are often aggressive and infiltrate surrounding brain tissue. GBMs arise from glial cells, which are cells that form the tissue that surrounds and protects other nerve cells found within the brain and spinal cord. 
(GBM) is the highest grade glial tumor and most common in the astocytic line. The tumor is characterized as an anaplastic often cellular brain tumor composed of poorly differentiated cells that include occasional multinucleated giant cells. 