Also, a study from Robert Tokunaga found that while social information processing theory holds true for people with high individualist values, the same could not be said for those with high collectivist values. 1 Viral marketing occurs largely through CMC interpersonal influence, most commonly through online social networks. 2  Social information-processing theory views the social network as “an important source of information and cues for behavior and action for individuals”.
Cognitive information processing (CIP) theory is often referred to as simply information processing.. Information processing is not really the name of a single theory; it is a generic name applied to various theoretical perspectives dealing with the sequence and execution of cognitive events.
The Social Information Processing theory is one model that has been developed to explain the nature of these interactions. Critics of the Social Information Processing theory argue that the anonymity of computer-mediated communication leads people to depersonalize both themselves and others.
As stated in the introduction to this section, cognitive psychology represents the dominant approach in psychology today. A primary focus of this approach is on memory (the storage and retrieval of information), a subject that has been of interest for thousands of years. Stage Model of Information Processing. One of the major issues in cognitive psychology is the study of memory. The dominant view is labeled the stage theory and is based on the work of Atkinson and Shiffrin (1968).
Dr. Kenneth Dodge was fascinated with the way behavior comes about as a result of one's understanding and interacting with their world. He explained our cognitive processes by creating a theory called social information processing. It states that individuals choose to act a certain way in a given situation through a series of five stages. They include encoding, mental representations, response accessing, evaluation and enactment. To review, through his social information processing theory, Kenneth Dodge explained to us the cognitive processes we go through when encountering situations. His stages address what happens as we notice an event, make sense out of it and choose an action in response.
a type of human information processing where the social information is encoded and compared with pertinent information that is used to influence your reaction. It was proposed by U.S. psychologist Kenneth A. Dodge (1954-)|. 
Information Processing. by Saul McLeod published 2008. At the very heart of cognitive psychology is the idea of information processing. Cognitive psychology sees the individual as a processor of information, in much the same way that a computer takes in information and follows a program to produce an output. The idea of information processing was adopted by cognitive psychologists as a model of how human thought works. For example, the eye receives visual information and codes information into electric neural activity which is fed back to the brain where it is “stored” and “coded”.
For the information processing that occurs in large-scale and typically networked groups, see Social information processing. 1 Viral marketing occurs largely through CMC interpersonal influence, most commonly through online social networks. 2  Social information-processing theory views the social network as “an important source of information and cues for behavior and action for individuals”.
Social information processing is an activity through which collective human actions organize knowledge.. It is the creation and processing of information by a group of people. As an academic field Social Information Processing studies the information processing power of networked social systems.
Social information processing theory (SIP) is an interpersonal communication theory developed by Joseph Walther in 1992 explaining how people get to know one another online, without nonverbal cues, and how they develop and manage relationships in the computer-mediated environment. 1 Viral marketing occurs largely through CMC interpersonal influence, most commonly through online social networks. 2  Social information-processing theory views the social network as “an important source of information and cues for behavior and action for individuals”.