1 It’s normal to have a white/yellow vaginal discharge that does NOT have an odor (smell). 2  Vaginal odor, itching, burning, pain and/or a different discharge are symptoms of an infection. 3  If you have any symptoms of a vaginal infection, call your health care provider.
Some basic steps to prevent run-of-the-mill vaginal odor caused by overgrowths of normal skin bacteria include: 1  Washing your vulva with warm water and unscented, gentle soap with mild antibacterial action. 2  Wearing underwear made from materials that breathe, such as cotton.
Fishy smells can also result from vaginal infections, such as trichomonas, and in some women, from semen in the vagina. The vagina could also smell yeasty because of vaginal yeast overgrowths or yeast infections. A moist, sweaty environment promotes overgrowths of normal skin bacteria that could cause vaginal odor.
Key Facts. 1  It’s normal to have a white/yellow vaginal discharge that does NOT have an odor (smell). 2  Vaginal odor, itching, burning, pain and/or a different discharge are symptoms of an infection. 3  If you have any symptoms of a vaginal infection, call your health care provider.
Vaginal odor is typically from inflammation of the vaginal area. Inflammation of the vaginal area can occur because of poor hygiene but is often a result of infection in or around the vagina. A common infection that can cause vaginal odor is overgrowth of the normal vaginal bacteria to cause bacterial vaginosis.
It’s normal for your vagina to have a slight odor. But if you feel your vagina has a strong odor, such as a fishy smell or an unpleasant smell, it could be a symptom of another health issue or problem. The odor may be accompanied by other symptoms like itching, burning, irritation, or vaginal discharge.
It's normal for your vagina to have a slight odor. But, a strong vaginal odor — for instance, a fishy smell — might be abnormal and could indicate a problem. An abnormal vaginal odor is usually associated with other vaginal signs and symptoms such as itching, burning, irritation or discharge.
A urologist explains the causes of a fish-like smell around the penis. That fishy smell from your penis is caused by certain problems that you can remedy. A fishy smell around your penis is not normal. A fishy stink on or around the penile region has specific causes.