While FDA generally recognizes most additives on this list as ‘safe,’ there are growing concerns about the safety of many common food additives, if consumed in large quantities. 1  Sodium nitrate: Added to processed meats to stop bacterial growth. 2  Sulfites: Used to keep prepared foods fresh. 3  Azodicarbonamide: Used in bagels and buns. 4  Potassium 5  ... Pro Artificial Sweeteners to Avoid. Artificial sweeteners are regulated by FDA, just as food additives are, but this does not apply to products ‘generally recognized as safe. 1  Saccharin: Carcinogen found to cause bladder cancer in rats. ( 2 Worst Offender). 3  Aspartame: An excitotoxin and thought to be a carcinogen.
Smell is just as important as taste to food processors, because most of a food’s flavor appeal to the human brain actually comes from its smell. Most processed foods rely on these additives to restore flavor that is lost in processing or create new flavors altogether. The federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act defines a food additive as, any substance the intended use of which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of any food....
A food additive is any substance added to food that changes its characteristics. There are two types of food additives, direct and indirect. Direct food additives are those added to a food for a specific purpose in that food, such as sugar or salt. Most direct food additives are listed on ingredient food labels. On the other hand, indirect food additives are those that become part of the food in trace amounts due to package storing or other handling
Once approved by the FDA, food additives are considered fit for human consumption—but they may not be entirely safe. Some food and color additives have induced allergic reactions, while others have been linked to cancer, asthma, and birth defects. The federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act defines a food additive as, any substance the intended use of which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of any food....
In considering market to consumer practices, the usual thought is that food ought to be safe in the market and the concern is safe delivery and preparation of the food for the consumer. Food can transmit disease from person to person as well as serve as a growth medium for bacteria that can cause food poisoning. 1 Separate raw and cooked foods to prevent contaminating the cooked foods. 2  Cook foods for the appropriate length of time and at the appropriate temperature to kill pathogens. 3  Store food at the proper temperature.
In addition, food additives are scrutinised by the World Health Organisation, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation and its joint expert committee on food additives. Dr Anne Swain, dietitian from Royal Prince Alfred Hospital's allergy unit, says usually food additives aren't a problem. Especially when it comes to the names and numbers of food additives, which are often completely unidentifiable and unpronounceable. But despite our confusion, the food additives in our tins of tomatoes, tubs of margarine, or jars of jam are there for a variety of reasons.
The Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN) works to assure that the food supply is safe, sanitary, wholesome, and honestly labeled. Michael Taylor, deputy commissioner for foods, on the FDA's common sense approach to food safety and nutrition and the agency's response to new challenges in the food supply. WATCH a video about food safety and nutrition !
At each step in the flow of food through a food service establishment there are general food safety procedures that should be followed to help reduce the risk of contamination and mishandling and could consequently lead to foodborne illness outbreaks. The following are the basic procedures that help keep all food safe. 
Additives include flavorings that change a food’s taste, preservatives that extend its shelf life, colorings that change the way it looks, and dietary additives, such as vitamins, minerals, fatty acids and other supplements. The federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act defines a food additive as, any substance the intended use of which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of any food....