Book your SFO to PVG flights with Expedia and find last-minute San Francisco to Shanghai airfare. San Francisco to Shanghai Flights, Stats and Airplanes. Route information for flights from San Francisco Intl. to Pudong Intl.. Origin: SFO-San Francisco Intl. Destination: PVG-
Expedia offers discount airfare on multiple airline carriers that fly direct and indirect routes between SFO and PVG, with new flight deals and promotions almost daily. When you book your next trip from San Francisco Intl. to Pudong Intl. San Francisco to Shanghai Flights, Stats and Airplanes. Route information for flights from San Francisco Intl. to Pudong Intl.. Origin: SFO-San Francisco Intl. Destination: PVG-
Flying time from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China. The total flight duration from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China is 12 hours, 50 minutes. This assumes an average flight speed for a commercial airliner of 500 mph, which is equivalent to 805 km/h or 434 knots. It also adds an extra 30 minutes for take-off and landing. It ends in Shanghai, China. Your flight direction from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China is Northwest (-50 degrees from North). The flight time calculator measures the average flight duration between points. It uses the great circle formula to compute the travel mileage.
Fastest one-stop flight between San Francisco, CA and Shanghai takes close to 16 hours. However, some airlines could take as long as 34 hours based on the stopover destination and waiting duration. This is the average non-stop flight time from San Francisco, CA to either of the major airports that serves Shanghai.
Non-stop flights from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai takes anywhere between 9 hours to 15 hours based on the airline you choose. However, some airlines could take as long as 34 hours based on the stopover destination and waiting duration. This is the average non-stop flight time from San Francisco, CA to either of the major airports that serves Shanghai.
Flight time from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai via Hong Kong • SFO to PVG via HKG. Flight duration from San Francisco International Airport to Pu Dong Airport via Hong Kong International Airport, China on Cathay Pacific flight is 19 hours 30 minutes. However, some airlines could take as long as 34 hours based on the stopover destination and waiting duration. This is the average non-stop flight time from San Francisco, CA to either of the major airports that serves Shanghai.
The nearest airport to San Francisco, CA, is San Francisco International Airport (SFO) and the nearest airport to Shanghai, is Pu Dong Airport (PVG). Find flights from San Francisco, CA to cities and airports near Shanghai. Distance from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai is approximately 9880 kilometers. However, some airlines could take as long as 34 hours based on the stopover destination and waiting duration. This is the average non-stop flight time from San Francisco, CA to either of the major airports that serves Shanghai.
The calculation of flight time is based on the straight line flight distance from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China (as the crow flies), which is about 6,165 miles or 9 922 kilometers. Your trip begins in San Francisco, California. It ends in Shanghai, China. Your flight direction from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China is Northwest (-50 degrees from North). The flight time calculator measures the average flight duration between points. It uses the great circle formula to compute the travel mileage.
China Eastern has 7 nonstop flights between Shanghai, CN and San Francisco. The smallest aircraft flying nonstop from Shanghai, CN to San Francisco is the Airbus A330-200 with 234 seats. 100% of all flights from Shanghai, CN to San Francisco leave during afternoon hours. Korean Air has 382 connecting flights between Shanghai, CN and San Francisco. 100% of all flights from Shanghai, CN to San Francisco arrive during morning hours. The shortest nonstop flight between Shanghai, CN and San Francisco is 6135 miles. 2 airlines operate between Shanghai, CN and San Francisco. 4,256 seats are available per week to fly direct from Shanghai, CN to
Distance from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China. The total distance from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China is 6,165 miles. This is equivalent to 9 922 kilometers or 5,357 nautical miles. Your trip begins in San Francisco, California. It ends in Shanghai, China. Your flight direction from San Francisco, CA to Shanghai, China is Northwest (-50 degrees from North). The distance calculator helps you figure out how far it is to fly