Share to: 1  2013 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution GSR Car If you are looking for a sedan, but like the style of a sports car, the 2013 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution GSR is a good compromise. 2  Small Cars With Big Environmental Benefits If you want to go green when you buy your next car, you want to get something small. GS-R with 170 Horse Power,and Type R with 197 Horse Power. Type-R is the racer of the group that has modified suspe … nsion, Brakes Wheels, Interior, Braces, Lighter Seats and Aerodynamics. Plus they were limited edition and only came in limited colors.
1994 Acura Integra GSR Race Car. $12500. We have available for sale an proven fast Acura / Honda race car. Would make a great track day car or current race car. SCCA logbook and setup info is with the car. It is described below by the original owner and builder. This car started out 7 years ago as a 1994 Acura Integra GSR. Major engine and transmission work was done by Garage 808 and Mohawk Valley Honda and Acura. The car was initially raced in ITS and RS.
Like all 2014 Beetles (and previous turbocharged cars), the GSR sports a multilink rear suspension with slightly better balance in the twisties than that of the old torsion beam and superior control over rough pavement. They team with the R-Line’s larger, 12.3-inch front discs to give the GSR what feels like autobahn-worthy stopping ability, and the car offers good top-of-pedal response. Transmission choices are a six-speed manual and a six-speed dual-clutch automatic; we only sampled the former.
Volkswagen is rolling out the Beetle GSR, the first of what is likely to be many special edition Beetles. However for a first effort, we like what we see. The new GSR’s 210 horsepower and 207 pound-feet of torque enable the car to accelerate from 0 to 60 mph in just 6.6 seconds and to reach an electronically governed top track speed of 130 mph.
For 2014, Volkswagen is crowning the Beetle R-Line series with a limited-run GSR model. Spandex suit, cape, and goggles notwithstanding, you’re not likely to get any more attention driving a 2014 VW Beetle than in the screaming-yellow-zonkers and black-striped GSR. (Protip: Carefully heed speed-limit signs.). They team with the R-Line’s larger, 12.3-inch front discs to give the GSR what feels like autobahn-worthy stopping ability, and the car offers good top-of-pedal response. Transmission choices are a six-speed manual and a six-speed dual-clutch automatic; we only sampled the former.
Gunshot residue (GSR) , also known as cartridge discharge residue (CDR), gunfire residue(GFR), or firearm discharge residue (FDR), is residue deposited on the hands and clothes of someone who discharges a firearm. 
The 2013 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution GSR is a sports car masquerading as a four-door sedan that was born out of the world of rally racing. The Evo still hangs onto its rally-racing roots while also being comfortable enough to use as a daily driver. The rest of the Evolution GSR interior is stark at best. The radio is very simple and not what we have come to expect in a modern car. In fact, the stereo system resembles something from last decade. Most of the controls are very simple and the interior has very generic lines and looks a bit like a sea of platic.
the Type R is a B18C5 engine and the GSR is a B18C1 engine. GS-R with 170 Horse Power,and Type R with 197 Horse Power. Type-R is the racer of the group that has modified suspe … nsion, Brakes Wheels, Interior, Braces, Lighter Seats and Aerodynamics. Plus they were limited edition and only came in limited colors.
The 2013 Mitsubishi Evolution GSR is a terrible family sedan. The car may have four doors, but the ride is harsh, it gets bad gas mileage and it’s loud on the freeway. The rest of the Evolution GSR interior is stark at best. The radio is very simple and not what we have come to expect in a modern car. In fact, the stereo system resembles something from last decade. Most of the controls are very simple and the interior has very generic lines and looks a bit like a sea of platic.
Best Answer: Ok, these are all trims on an integra. RS is rally sport, and is the base model, which is the stripped model, or the type-R shell. It comes in an auto or manual, and has a B18B1 (USDM) Non-VTEC motor. 142hp @7000RPM. LS is the one step above, and is pretty much the most preferred. 