1763, from Spanish avocado, altered (by folk etymology influence of earlier Spanish avocado lawyer, from same Latin source as (n.)) from earlier aguacate, from Nahuatl (Aztecan) ahuakatl avocado (with a secondary meaning testicle probably based on resemblance), from proto-Nahuan *pawa avocado.. 
The avocado appears to have originated from Mexico and Central America, according to observations from the Spanish conquistadors. WORD HISTORY: The etymology of avocado takes us back to the Incas and Aztecs of Central America who spoke Nahuatl,a native language in antiquity which contained the word ahuac … atl meaning both: fruit of the avocado tree and testicle.
1 Avocados are a very healthy type of fruit. 2  One serving, which equals around 1/5 th of an avocado, is around 50 calories. 3  It has 60% more potassium than a banana and also contains vitamins B and C. 3/4 of the fruit’s calories come from fat. Today I found out that “Avocado” derives from a word meaning “testicle”. The word Avocado comes from a Nahuatl Indian (Aztec) word “ ahuacatl ” ahuácatl meaning. testicle
Copy and paste from. http://www.answers.com/topic/avocado. The history of avocado takes us back to the Aztecs and their language, Nahuatl, which contained the word ahuacatl meaning both fruit of the avocado tree and testicle..
The avocado (Persea americana) is a tree native to Mexico and Central America, classified in the flowering plant family Lauraceae along with cinnamon, camphor and bay laurel. Avocado or alligator pear also refers to the fruit, botanically a large berry that contains a single seed. Avocados are commercially valuable and are cultivated in tropical and Mediterranean climates throughout the world. They have a green-skinned, fleshy body that may be pear-shaped, egg-shaped, or spherical. This is often done by removing the pit from a ripe, unrefrigerated avocado. The pit is then stabbed with three or four toothpicks, about one-third of the way up. The pit is placed in a jar or vase containing tepid water. It should split in four to six weeks and yield roots and a sprout.
Saum. Today I found out that “Avocado” derives from a word meaning “testicle”. The word Avocado comes from a Nahuatl Indian (Aztec) word “ ahuacatl ” ahuácatl meaning. Testicle it is thought that the reference is either due to the’avocado s shape or the fact that it was considered to possess aphrodisiac qualities by The. aztecs Today I found out that “Avocado” derives from a word meaning “testicle”. The word Avocado comes from a Nahuatl Indian (Aztec) word “ ahuacatl ” ahuácatl meaning. testicle
The avocado was introduced from Mexico to California in the 19th century, and has become a successful cash crop. About 59,000 acres (240 km 2) – some 95% of United States avocado production – is located in Southern California, with 60% in San Diego County. This is often done by removing the pit from a ripe, unrefrigerated avocado. The pit is then stabbed with three or four toothpicks, about one-third of the way up. The pit is placed in a jar or vase containing tepid water. It should split in four to six weeks and yield roots and a sprout.
Many words in English have a root word in Latin or Greek. This is not the case for avocado. The word reportedly comes from the Nahuatl (Aztec) word ahuacatl or testicle (due … to the shape of the fruit). This would be the root word for the English word avocado. 4 people found this useful
The word avocado originates from a Nahuatl Indian (Aztec) word meaning “testicle,” a reference either to its shape or to its aphrodisiac qualities. There you have it. 