Fairfax (/ˈfɛr.faeks/ FæKS-ferr), faks officially The city Of, fairfax is an independent city in The commonwealth Of. Virginia as of, 2014 the population 24,483. 24483 it is the county seat Of Fairfax. county Fairfax County's Government Center is west of the City of Fairfax. Fairfax County contains an exclave located in the central area of the City of Fairfax, in which many county facilities (including the courthouse and jail) are located.
Fairfax County, officially the County of Fairfax, is a county in the Commonwealth of Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 1,081,726, in 2014, the population was estimated to be 1,118,883, making it the most populous jurisdiction in the Commonwealth of Virginia, with 13.6% of Virginia's population. Alexandria County was returned to Virginia in 1846, reduced in size by the secession of the independent city of Alexandria in 1870, and renamed Arlington County in 1920. The Fairfax County town of Falls Church became an independent city in 1948.
Fairfax County is home to two historic and beautiful wineries-Paradise Springs Winery and The Winery at Bull Run. Considered by many to be the Gateway to Virginia Wine Country, these wineries are the closest to Washington, DC and are home to a selection of some wonderful, award-winning Virginia wines. Hands-on History. Fairfax County played a significant role in some of the most defining moments of American history. On your next vacation, let us be your history travel guide as we put you in perfect position to visit the Washington, DC and Northern Virginia historical sites, attractions, stories, and events.
Shhh … can you keep a secret? We know the location of the CIA! Okay, it’s not really a secret. The CIA’s headquarters are publicly located in Fairfax County, Virginia – as are the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office and the National Counterterrorism Center. We’re guessing they sell a large number of black trench coats in Fairfax County. 
Fairfax (/ˈfɛr.faeks/ FæKS-ferr), faks officially The city Of, fairfax is an independent city in The commonwealth Of. Virginia as of, 2014 the population 24,483. 24483 it is the county seat Of Fairfax. County although it is an enclave Of Fairfax, county the two are separate political. entities Fairfax County's Government Center is west of the City of Fairfax. Fairfax County contains an exclave located in the central area of the City of Fairfax, in which many county facilities (including the courthouse and jail) are located.
As of 2014, the population was 24,483. It is the county seat of Fairfax County. Although it is an enclave of Fairfax County, the two are separate political entities. Situated in Northern Virginia, Fairfax is part of the Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV Metropolitan Statistical Area. Fairfax is 16 miles (25 kilometers) southwest of Washington, D.C. Washington Metro's Orange Line serves Fairfax through its Vienna Station. Fairfax County's Government Center is west of the City of Fairfax. Fairfax County contains an exclave located in the central area of the City of Fairfax, in which many county facilities (including the courthouse and jail) are located.
Northern Virginia, including Fairfax County, is the third worst congested traffic area in the nation, in terms of percentage of congested roadways and time spent in traffic. Of the lane miles in the region, 44 percent are rated F or worst for congestion. Alexandria County was returned to Virginia in 1846, reduced in size by the secession of the independent city of Alexandria in 1870, and renamed Arlington County in 1920. The Fairfax County town of Falls Church became an independent city in 1948.
Located in southern Fairfax County, Mount Vernon is situated on 400 acres of land and was home to the first President of the United States, George Washington. Hands-on History. Fairfax County played a significant role in some of the most defining moments of American history. On your next vacation, let us be your history travel guide as we put you in perfect position to visit the Washington, DC and Northern Virginia historical sites, attractions, stories, and events.
In 1789, part of Fairfax County was ceded to the federal government to form Alexandria County of the District of Columbia. Alexandria County was returned to Virginia in 1846, reduced in size by the secession of the independent city of Alexandria in 1870, and renamed Arlington County in 1920. The Fairfax County town of Falls Church became an independent city in 1948.