Overview. Electromyography (EMG), often done along with a nerve conduction velocity (NCV) study, measures your muscle and nerve electrical activity. Small needles, or electrodes, are placed in your muscles, and the results are recorded on a special machine
EMG or electromyography is a study that examines the nerves and muscles of the body. The test may include nerve conduction studies (NCS), needle electromyography or evoked potentials. The physician performing the study will first examine you in order to determine what aspects of the test are needed. 
An electromyogram (EMG) is a test that is used to record the electrical activity of muscles. When muscles are active, they produce an electrical current. This current is usually proportional to the level of the muscle activity. 
EMG is a low-risk procedure, and complications are rare. There's a small risk of bleeding, infection and nerve injury where a needle electrode is inserted. When muscles along the chest wall are examined with a needle electrode, there's a very small risk that it could cause air to leak into the area between the lungs and chest wall, causing a lung to collapse (pneumothorax). 1  Why it's done. 2  How you prepare.
Electromyogram (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies. Guide. An electromyogram (EMG) measures the electrical activity of muscles at rest and during contraction. Nerve conduction studies measure how well and how fast the nerves can send electrical signals. Nerves control the muscles in the body with electrical signals called impulses. An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching.
An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  These problems may include a herniated disc, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or myasthenia gravis (MG). An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching.
EMG Risks. People usually have a small amount of discomfort during EMG testing because of pin insertion. Disposable needles are used so there is no risk of infection. During nerve conduction studies, small electrodes are taped to the skin or placed around fingers. The patient typically experiences a brief and mild shock, which may be a bit unpleasant.
A nerve conduction study (NCS) is a medical diagnostic test commonly used to evaluate the function, especially the ability of electrical conduction, of the motor and sensory nerves of the human body. 
Electromyogram (EMG). An EMG measures the electrical activity in a muscle in response to stimulation. It is used in conjunction with a neurological exam to help physicians diagnose a wide range of problems, including: 1  Nerve damage from disk compression in the neck or back. 2  Nerve compression from carpal tunnel syndrome. 