In genetics, gene expression is the most fundamental level at which the genotype gives rise to the phenotype, i.e. observable trait. The genetic code stored in DNA is interpreted by gene expression, and the properties of the expression give rise to the organism's phenotype. Expression of a gene coding for a protein is only possible if the messenger RNA carrying the code survives long enough to be translated. In a typical cell, an RNA molecule is only stable if specifically protected from degradation.
Gene expression is the process by which the information encoded in a gene is used to direct the assembly of a protein molecule. The cell reads the sequence of the gene in groups of three bases. Each group of three bases (codon) corresponds to one of 20 different amino acids used to build the protein. 
The process of gene expression is used by all known life-eukaryotes (including multicellular organisms), prokaryotes (bacteria and archaea), and utilized by viruses-to generate the macromolecular machinery for life. Expression of a gene coding for a protein is only possible if the messenger RNA carrying the code survives long enough to be translated. In a typical cell, an RNA molecule is only stable if specifically protected from degradation.
Gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. These products are often proteins, but in non-protein coding genes such as transfer RNA (tRNA) or small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes, the product is a functional RNA. Expression of a gene coding for a protein is only possible if the messenger RNA carrying the code survives long enough to be translated. In a typical cell, an RNA molecule is only stable if specifically protected from degradation.
gene expression, the flow of genetic information from gene to protein; the process, or the regulation of the process, by which the effects of a gene are manifested; the manifestation of a heritable trait in an individual carrying the gene or genes that determine it. 3. gene expression. gene expression. 1. the flow of genetic information from gene to protein. 2. the process, or the regulation of the process, by which the effects of a gene are manifested. 3.
Definition of Gene Expression. A gene is a small piece of genetic material written in a code and called DNA. Each gene has within it a set of instructions for making molecules that organisms need to survive. Genes themselves cannot be used by an organism. Instead they must be turned into a gene product. An important component that is always present is RNA polymerase. This is the machine that actually reads the DNA code and makes the RNA. Transcription factors that promote gene expression are called activators. Figure 1 shows transcription factors and RNA polymerase (RNAP) making an mRNA copy of the DNA.
• GENE EXPRESSION (noun). The noun GENE EXPRESSION has 1 sense: 1. conversion of the information encoded in a gene first into messenger RNA and then to a protein. Familiarity information: GENE EXPRESSION used as a noun is very rare.
Gene expression: The translation of information encoded in a gene into protein or RNA structures that are present and operating in the cell. Expressed genes include genes that are transcribed into messenger RNA (mRNA) and then translated into protein, as well as genes that are transcribed into RNA, such as transfer and ribosomal RNAs, but not translated into protein.
Gene expression. Gene expression is the process by which the genetic code-the nucleotide sequence-of a gene is used to direct protein synthesis and produce the structures of the cell. Genes that code for amino acid sequences are known as 'structural genes'. The process of gene expression involves two main stages: Transcription: the production of messenger RNA (mRNA) by the enzyme RNA polymerase, and the processing of the resulting mRNA molecule.