D.R. Horton, America’s Builder, is excited to be offering our architecturally designed collection of New Homes in Sterling on the Lake! Located north of Atlanta in the charming town of Flowery Branch, you'll find tranquil lakes, beautiful protected open space, and a lively Village Center at Sterling on the Lake. 
At Sterling Finance Company®'s Lawrenceville, Georgia office, the residents of Gwinnett County are our top priority. We know there are options out there when you're in need of a personal loan or consolidation loan, but we hope you'll consider us your first call! 
LIVE A STERLING LIFE. A Sterling Life is the life we offer at our Sterling Estates of East Cobb retirement community. This is Independent and Assisted Living in Marietta, GA, where the values of service, faith, family, dependability, and hope are cherished. Hope is the common thread that, throughout the ages, has inspired people to pursue the best qualities of life. Hope for a rich and rewarding life. Hope to be able to share with those whom we love. Family and hope—that’s what makes a life Sterling at this senior living
Sterling, Virginia is a census-designated place (CDP) in Loudoun County, Virginia. The population as of the 2010 United States Census was 27,822. In the beginning of 1962, large farms made up the 1,762 acres (713 ha) of what today is called Sterling Park. Route 7, also known as Leesburg Pike, bordered what used to be Jesse Hughes's dairy farm. Hughes arrived in Loudoun County in the early 20th century and was a longtime head of the county's Democrats. Fred Franklin Tavenner, who was somewhat related to Benjamin Franklin, operated vast stretches of Sterling Farm at the southwest fringes of Sterling Park
Come explore Sterling on the Lake, on us. [close]. This is not intended to be an offer to sell nor a solicitation of offers to buy real estate in Sterling on the Lake to residents of Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, New York, New Jersey, and Oregon, or in any other jurisdiction where prohibited by law.
Sterling (GNIS FID: 323583) is a populated place located in Glynn County at latitude 31.272 and longitude -81.561. The elevation is 10 feet. Sterling appears on the Sterling U.S. Geological Survey Map. Glynn County is in the Eastern Time Zone (UTC -5 hours). Glynn County: Cities & Towns | ZIP Codes | Schools | Features (airports, churches, hospitals, etc.
Located north of Atlanta in the charming city of Flowery Branch, you'll find tranquil lakes, beautiful protected open spaces and a lively Village Center at Sterling on the Lake SM. Close to Lake Lanier, this master-planned community by Newland Communities provides quality of life in an ever-growing city. [close]. This is not intended to be an offer to sell nor a solicitation of offers to buy real estate in Sterling on the Lake to residents of Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, New York, New Jersey, and Oregon, or in any other jurisdiction where prohibited by law.
For more information, please visit our Census Page for Glynn County. To help identify the number of people who live in Sterling and the surrounding area, we have drawn concentric rings centered on Sterling. Population Rings for Sterling ..
M-F 8:00 - 5:00. The Magistrate Court is a limited jurisdiction Court of Civil and Criminal Jurisdiction that was constitutionally created in 1983. The jurisdiction is found in O.C.G.A. 15-10-2, Georgia Code, and the Uniform Rules of the Magistrate Court. 