It’s an easy answer: that all depends on you. The general rule (according to the AICPA) is that you should be doing 2 – 3 hours of self-study (MCQ/sims) for each hour of review lecture you watch. So there is no magic timeframe to aim for; some people take a few weeks to prepare for FAR, others need more than 3 months. If you are going alone without a review course and using just practice questions, you can substitute textbook reading (like Wiley CPA Review textbooks) for lecture hours but you will probably want to count half an hour of reading as the equivalent of one hour of lecture.
How to Prepare for the Uniform CPA Exam. As a CPA Examination candidate, you are required to be thoroughly familiar with the entire examination journey – from the time you apply to take the examination until you pass all four sections. 
The only way you’ll be ready in 2 weeks is to put in some serious study hours ever single day. 6 hours/ day x 14 days = 84 hours, I would guestimate that you will need this many hours to finish your book and practice exams in time. Bryce. I am looking at sitting for the CPA exam again. Sat 7 years ago but didn’t finish got discouraged when parts started falling off.
I have been studying for Audit since July 1 and I test on Aug 31. I study about 3 hours after I get off work everyday and about 8 hours a day on the weekend. I read all of these forums about people saying that 160 hours is more than enough time to study!
I found it much easier to retain information when I studied for 2-3 hours a day on a consistent basis, rather than cram in 8 hours of studying 2 or 3 times a week. The audit test is 4 hours long, so by studying for no more than 4 hours at a time, you are training your brain to be able to focus for this amount of time. Studying for the CPA exam is like learning a language. Consuming just a little bit each day is crucial to re-enforce what you have already studied as well as develop a solid study routine. Keep it fresh in you brain on a daily basis and you will retain much more information.
Plan to take some time off work to prepare for each exam section. Use your vacation or take an unpaid leave of absence. The last thing you need is an argument with your boss about getting time off to take the exam. What ever you do, don't plan to work during the day and then sit for an exam section in the evening. Develop a CPA Exam Study Plan. It's time to get down to the business of studying. The first step in developing a personalized study plan is to analyze each day of the week to find the time to study.
Tip #2: Review Study Material On-the-Go. When studying for the CPA exam, it is almost impossible to review the material too much, say most CPAs. In fact, Tom Vucinic, CPA, suggests taking advantage of every spare moment you have in a day to study or review. Study everything again as if you are taking the test for the first time and pay special attention to your weak areas.” Many successful CPA exam candidates suggest that even if you only need to score a few points higher than your previous examination score, study as if you are taking the test for the first time.
While there are no strict CPA exam study requirements, the American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) generally recommends that exam candidates spend 300 to 400 hours preparing for the exam. However, the recommended amount of time spent studying for each exam section varies. I study about 3 hours after I get off work everyday and about 8 hours a day on the weekend. I read all of these forums about people saying that 160 hours is more than enough time to study!
Rough Estimate: 300-400 Hours. As a general rule, you’ll need 80-150 hours to study for each session of the exams, assuming you have basic accounting knowledge. Roughly speaking, you will need around 300-400 hours. Most candidates spend more time in preparing FAR and REG parts of the exam, and less time on AUD and BEC. 
CPAMommyof3. 3 weeks studying full time equates to 120 hours if you only do 8 hours a day 5 days a week like you would if you working. That doesn't seem like too little time to me. If you working you need to think about things in terms of hours and not weeks. 100-150 hours seems to be the range I've seen on here for REG. Posted 1 year ago #. The CPA Kid. I'm doing REG in 2.5 weeks, but I only work ~25-30 hours a week. I was able to do BEC and AUD in the same month, but I think REG takes a little more time since there is a lot more memorization rather than conceptualization.