Symptoms. Signs and symptoms of primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) usually take years to progress. They include: 1  Stiffness, weakness and spasticity in your legs. 2  Tripping, difficulty with balance and clumsiness as the leg muscles weaken. 3  Weakness and stiffness progressing to your trunk, then your arms, hands, tongue and jaw. 
Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) is a rare neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive muscle weakness in the voluntary muscles. PLS belongs to a group of disorders known as motor neuron diseases. 
In the case that your PLS file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit PLS file extensions. If your PC opens the PLS file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings. In other words, Windows is associating PLS file extensions with the wrong software program. In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of PLS file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information.
The PLS files contain information about an audio file's location, but they do not contain the actual audio file or any real audio data. The .pls file extension is also used with the Accounting Plus and AccountEdge software. When the .pls file extension is used for these applications, the files contain financial information such as accounts payable and accounts receivable data. Many of the programs that used the .pls file extension are being discontinued by the distributor of the software. 
Founded in 1991, PLS Logistics Services has become one of the country’s leading logistics management services providers. Based in Cranberry Township, PA, a suburb of Pittsburgh, PLS provides dependable outsourced logistics solutions as well as freight brokerage services. 
Open PLS in WMP allows you to listen to PLS (MP3 Playlist, a.k.a. Shoutcast streams) in Windows Media Player. It's a simple translator that opens PLS files, finds the stream information, and passes it to Window Media Player. Windows Media Player can open PLS (Shoutcast Playlist) internet radio streams, it just doesn't know it can.
Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) is a rare neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive muscle weakness in the voluntary muscles. PLS belongs to a group of disorders known as motor neuron diseases. Motor neuron diseases develop when the nerve cells that control voluntary muscle movement degenerate and die, causing weakness in the muscles they control. Onset of PLS usually occurs spontaneously after age 50 and progresses gradually over a number of years, or even decades. The disorder usually begins in the legs, but it may start in the tongue or the hands. Symptoms may include difficulty with balance, weakness and stiffness in the legs, and clumsiness
How To Open a PLS File. The easiest way to open a PLS file is to double-click on it and let your PC decide which default application should open the file. If no program opens the PLS file then you probably don't have an application installed that can view and/or edit PLS files. Perhaps you tried to open the PLS file but Windows told you that it could not open it. Before you can open a PLS file (assuming it's even a file format that's intended to be viewed or edited), you'll need to determine what kind of file the .PLS file extension refers to.
Definition. Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) causes weakness in your voluntary muscles, such as those you use to control your legs, arms and tongue. Primary lateral sclerosis is a type of motor neuron disease that causes muscle nerve cells to slowly break down, causing weakness. Primary lateral sclerosis can happen at any age, but it usually occurs between ages 40 and 60.