Weather in Australia. Weather in Melbourne. Victoria's climate is marked by a range of different climate zones, from the hot, dry regions of the northwest to the alpine snowfields in the northeast. Melbourne has a reputation for its changeable weather, often referred to as having ‘four seasons in one day'. Generally the city enjoys a temperate climate with warm to hot summers; mild, temperate springs and autumns; and cool winters. Temperatures average 25°C in summer and 14°C in winter
This report describes the typical weather at the Melbourne Airport (Melbourne, Australia) weather station over the course of an average March. It is based on the historical records from 1986 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Over the course of March typical wind speeds vary from 2 mph to 17 mph (light air to moderate breeze), rarely exceeding 27 mph (strong breeze). The highest average wind speed of 10 mph (gentle breeze) occurs around March 8, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 17 mph (moderate breeze).
Daytime spring temperatures average out at between 17 and 20°C, but a high of 40°C has been recorded in November, and a low of -0.5 in September, so you can see where the city gets its weather reputation! Spring is a very sporting time in Melbourne, with a particular emphasis on Australian rules football in October. Melbourne's parks and green spaces are gorgeous in their autumn finery, but this is another unpredictable season, weather-wise. From March to May, expect a gradual temperature drop to around 16oc, with some chilly nights.
Summer in Melbourne runs from December to February, and this is the peak tourist season so the city gets very busy. You can expect average daytime highs of around 25°C, but temperatures well into the 40s have been recorded, so pack plenty of sunscreen and a hat. Melbourne's parks and green spaces are gorgeous in their autumn finery, but this is another unpredictable season, weather-wise. From March to May, expect a gradual temperature drop to around 16oc, with some chilly nights.
Summer in Melbourne runs from December to February, and this is the peak tourist season so the city gets very busy. You can expect average daytime highs of around 25°C, but temperatures well into the 40s have been recorded, so pack plenty of sunscreen and a hat. It looks on Tuesday, 20 October the Melbourne weather is going to be partly cloudy. The visibility is going to be around 10 km i.e. 6 miles and an atmospheric pressure of 1013 mb. The daytime temperature is going to reach 26 °c and the temperature is going to dip to 17 °c at night.
Melbourne in the Winter. Melbourne is one of the few Australian state capitals which ever gets cold in the sense that most of us would recognise the word. June, July and August see average daytime temperatures of around 13°C, but nights can be positively chilly, with dips below freezing not unknown. Melbourne's parks and green spaces are gorgeous in their autumn finery, but this is another unpredictable season, weather-wise. From March to May, expect a gradual temperature drop to around 16oc, with some chilly nights.
Melbourne's top temperatures are usually in January and February, when it is mostly dry and hot with averages ranging from 15 - 26°C. The annual average rainfall for Melbourne is around 600mm. June and July are the coldest months, and October is the wettest. Weather in Melbourne. Victoria's climate is marked by a range of different climate zones, from the hot, dry regions of the northwest to the alpine snowfields in the northeast. Melbourne has a reputation for its changeable weather, often referred to as having ‘four seasons in one day'.
Melbourne Climate, Temperature & Rainfall. Melbourne enjoys a temperate climate with a cool winter. Average minimum temperatures in the winter months of June through to August are 6-7 degrees Celcius. The summer season is from December through to February. Melbourne enjoys a temperate climate with a cool winter. Average minimum temperatures in the winter months of June through to August are 6-7 degrees Celcius
Melbourne, located on Central Florida's East Coast, has an overall average high temperature of 81° and an average low of 63°. The highest recorded temperature in Melbourne was 102° in 1980 and the lowest recorded temperature was a very 17° in 1977. On average Melbourne's warmest month is July and January is the average coolest month.