To take advantage of HADR, you must have two dedicated servers available: one for the primary database and one for the standby database. Furthermore, both servers must adhere to a set of very specific requirements (see sidebar, Server setup checklist). After the emergency is over and the failed original primary server/database has been repaired, it can rejoin the HADR pair as the standby database-provided both copies of the database can be made consistent.
HADR is DB2’s implementation of log shipping. Which means it’s a shared-nothing kind of product. But it is log shipping at the Log Buffer level instead of the Log File level, so it can be extremely up to date. It even has a Synchronous mode that would guarantee that committed transactions on one server would also be on another server. HADR is also picky on hosts file and/or db2nodes.cfg set up, and in some cases you may end up using an IP address in the db cfg parameters instead of a hostname. HADR also sometimes fails after it tells you it has successfully started, so you must check the status after you start it.
HADR is a DB2 database replication feature that is designed to minimize the impact to a database system when a partial (hardware, network, or software malfunction) or a complete site (fire, flood, and so forth) failure occurs. After the emergency is over and the failed original primary server/database has been repaired, it can rejoin the HADR pair as the standby database-provided both copies of the database can be made consistent.
HADR is extremely picky about its variables. They must be exactly right with no typos, or HADR will not work. I have, on several occasions had numbers reversed or the instance name off, and spent a fair amount of time looking for the error before finding it. HADR is also picky on hosts file and/or db2nodes.cfg set up, and in some cases you may end up using an IP address in the db cfg parameters instead of a hostname. HADR also sometimes fails after it tells you it has successfully started, so you must check the status after you start it.
This query should return the name of the cluster to which you set the HADR cluster context. When the HADR cluster context is switched to a new cluster: The metadata is cleaned up for any availability replicas that are currently hosted by the instance of SQL Server. All the databases that previously belonged to an availability replica are now in the RESTORING state. The server instance on which you change the HADR cluster context must be running SQL Server 2012 SP1 or above (Enterprise edition or above). The server instance must be enabled for AlwaysOn.
HADR is really not too difficult to set up on it’s own. Configuring automatic failover is a bit more difficult, though DB2 has made it significantly easier in 9.5 and above with the introduction of bundled TSA and the haicu tool. HADR is also picky on hosts file and/or db2nodes.cfg set up, and in some cases you may end up using an IP address in the db cfg parameters instead of a hostname. HADR also sometimes fails after it tells you it has successfully started, so you must check the status after you start it.
Because HADR uses TCP/IP to communicate between the primary and the standby database, each database can reside in a different location. For example, the primary database might be located at one data center in one city, while the standby database might be located at another data center in another city. After the emergency is over and the failed original primary server/database has been repaired, it can rejoin the HADR pair as the standby database-provided both copies of the database can be made consistent.
HADR  is a H igh-A vailability and D isaster R ecovery solution introduced in SQL Server 2011 Code Named Denali to maximize availability for one or more of your user databases. [ More Information ]. HADR helps to maintain : Please check my previous post, STEP BY STEP guide to implement HADR in SQL Server 2011 / DENALI with Screenshots, for more details. Note: Denali CTP1 supports only a single, asynchronous secondary replica.
Without HADR, a partial site failure requires restarting a server, one or more instances of DB2, and the databases under each instance's control. If the transaction load was heavy at the time the partial site failure occurred, it can take several minutes to restart the instances and the databases affected. After the emergency is over and the failed original primary server/database has been repaired, it can rejoin the HADR pair as the standby database-provided both copies of the database can be made consistent.
HADR. nani_aksr asked Jun 12, 2006 | Replies (18). We have DB2 v8.2 on Linux box with HADR setup on one of our QA box. We need restore database (from online backup) on primary system and need to help what are the steps we need to do to sync standby database after restoring database on primary system. Thanks in advance, Nani. In our QA environment we had two Linux boxes (db2 8.2) systems with HADR configuration and we takes online backup every night on primary box. Now we got request to restore last weekend backup from primary box for their testing. So what are the steps I need to do to restore above request.