Certain naturally occurring total dissolved solids arise from the weathering and dissolution of rocks and soils. The United States has established a secondary water quality standard of 500 mg/l to provide for palatability of drinking water. Total dissolved solids are differentiated from total suspended solids (TSS), in that the latter cannot pass through a sieve of two micrometers and yet are indefinitely suspended in solution.
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) are the total amount of mobile charged ions, including minerals, salts or metals dissolved in a given volume of water, expressed in units of mg per unit volume of water (mg/L), also referred to as parts per million (ppm). TDS is directly related to the purity of water and the quality of water purification systems and affects everything that consumes, lives in, or uses water, whether organic or inorganic, whether for better or for worse.
1 In general, the total dissolved solids concentration is the sum of the cations (positively charged) and anions (negatively charged) ions in the water. 2  Parts per Million (ppm) is the weight-to-weight ratio of any ion to water. 1 (Suspended solids are any particles/substances that are neither dissolved nor settled in the water, such as wood pulp.). 2 
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) are the total amount of mobile charged ions, including minerals, salts or metals dissolved in a given volume of water, expressed in units of mg per unit volume of water (mg/L), also referred to as parts per million (ppm). 1 (Suspended solids are any particles/substances that are neither dissolved nor settled in the water, such as wood pulp.). 2  In general, the total dissolved solids concentration is the sum of the cations (positively charged) and anions (negatively charged) ions in the water.
United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) classifies Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) as a secondary contaminant. It is measured in milligrams per unit volume of water (mg/L) and also referred to as parts per million (ppm). For drinking water, the maximum concentration level set by EPA is 500 mg/L. As per Bureau of Indian Standards (IS: 10500) guidelines, 500 mg/L is the desirable limit and 2000 mg/L is the permissible limit, which means drinking water having TDS in excess of 2000 mg/L must be rejected.
1 | 2. A total dissolved solid (TDS) is a measure of the combined total of organic and inorganic substances contained in a liquid. This includes anything present in water other than the pure H20 molecules. These solids are primarily minerals, salts and organic matter that can be a general indicator of water quality. 
(TDS) Total Dissolved Solids are the total weight of all solids that are dissolved in a given volume of water, expressed in units of mg per unit volume of water (mg/L), also referred to as parts per million (PPM). 2. In general, the total dissolved solids concentration is the sum of the cations (positively charged) and anions (negatively charged) ions in the water. 3. Parts per Million (ppm) is the weight-to-weight ratio of any ion to water.
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) is a measure of the combined content of all contaminants contained in drinking water. A standard definition for “dissolved solids” is that they must be small enough to pass through a 2 micron filter. Contaminants larger than 2 microns are often referred to as Total Suspended Solids. 
In terms of Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), in the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) advises against consuming water containing more than 500mg/liter, otherwise known as 500 parts per million (ppm) of TDS, although many health specialists believe that ideal drinking water should be under 50 ppm or lower. 
TDS is directly related to the purity of water and the quality of water purification systems and affects everything that consumes, lives in, or uses water, whether organic or inorganic, whether for better or for worse. 1 (Suspended solids are any particles/substances that are neither dissolved nor settled in the water, such as wood pulp.). 2  In general, the total dissolved solids concentration is the sum of the cations (positively charged) and anions (negatively charged) ions in the water.