1 Wedding photography packages will typically cover 8 hours, on average. 2  More or less shooting time will influence your cost. 3  It’s important to ask a prospective wedding photographer how much extra they are charging for a wedding album if they’ve bundled the cost into their package price. (More on those money-saving tips, below). So, here are the takeaways to remember when it comes to figuring out how much a wedding photographer will cost you: 1  The average cost for a wedding photographer is 10-15% of a couple’s total budget, which is currently around $2800 for the average US couple.
As exciting as destination wedding can be for a photographer this is still a business and they still have to charge accordingly. You can read an in-depth post on Destination Weddings and associated fees in Rob’s article here…. I want to share with you what it looks like from the photographers end so that you understand what the fees are, why they are being charged and how to come to an agreement on them. When a photographer books a destination wedding or something that is more than 2-3 hours away from their home base they charge for it.
Pricing. Destination wedding photography pricing typically starts at $2000 + travel costs. This price reflects most destination weddings occurring during the months of November to May. Weddings that occur during June to October require special quote as travel times may affect cost. Travel is a big part of the cost of bringing a destination wedding photographer. In the event of the most common destination wedding (a Caribbean all-inclusive resort). I travel just like any of your guests. I will use your group rate when available and typically travel on the same dates when possible.
How To Charge Fees For Destination Weddings. I LOVE planning Destination Weddings. I mean, REALLY LOVE it. It’s my passion. It’s what gets me excited for the next couples love story… the location is a big part of what makes that story all about them. For me, I charge $4500+ for Caribbean/Mexico/Canada/USA, $6500+ for anywhere outside of this region. Keep in mind whether you’ll also charge travel on-top of this fee (suggested) and HOW you want to manage that (flat fee, client organized or you manage yourself and bill client).
You could just use google maps to figure out the distance and charge for travel based on that (figuring it covers fuel, wear and tear on your car, meals on the way and your time). 6hrs says around 300 miles to me, so $150 each way minimum I would say ($300 total). Kenzi. I travel for most of my assignments and charge half of my dayrate for each travel day. But that's for commercial, corporate and ad agency work. When I book a wedding that is going to require travel I usually charge $500/day, since I will not be able to do any shoots on those days and will lose out on any income.
You have a 50/50 chance (or worse) of winding up in a roach motel while the wedding party sleeps in the Ritz. (It's also not fair to require a $500/night room at the Ritz just because the wedding party will be there!). Calculate your expenses for your destination. Add on 15%. Charge this as a non-refundable travel fee, due at the time of booking. Book your lodging and flight IMMEDIATELY (or you'll discover rates have gone up and the hotels are all booked). Be VERY aware of peak season price differences. A wedding in December in Aruba will cost very differently from a wedding in August.
As a bride who is working with a limited budget your first instinct is to keep your budget in line. Any additional unexpected fees can send you into a tailspin. Such can be the case with destination fees that a wedding photographer may charge. I want to share with you what it looks like from the photographers end so that you understand what the fees are, why they are being charged and how to come to an agreement on them. When a photographer books a destination wedding or something that is more than 2-3 hours away from their home base they charge for it.
Rubber Boots Photography is more than happy to travel for our clients and we do it quite often for those planning a destination wedding or those that live outside of our area. Below is a basic breakdown of what you can expect when it comes to the travel fees associated with traveling for your shoot, wedding, or event. If we are traveling for a destination wedding, a two night stay (one night before the wedding and night of the wedding) is necessary to make sure we arrive with plenty of time. These fees must be paid in advance of your session, wedding, or event and will be booked by Rubber Boots Photography.
According to Snapknot.com, the average cost for a wedding photographer is $2,814. However, in cities such as San Francisco and New York, wedding photography prices are closer to $4,000. (More on those money-saving tips, below). So, here are the takeaways to remember when it comes to figuring out how much a wedding photographer will cost you: 1  The average cost for a wedding photographer is 10-15% of a couple’s total budget, which is currently around $2800 for the average US couple.