Talk [edit]. The official language of Portugal is Portuguese. Portuguese is today one of the world's major languages, ranked 6th according to number of native speakers (approximately 240 million). It is the language with the largest number of speakers in South America, spoken by almost all of Brazil's population. 
And the Barraquenho dialect is spoken in the town of Barrancos, on the Portugal-Spain border.   Mirandese is spoken in the northeast, in Miranda do Douro. A 2008 estimate of the total population of Portugal hovers around 10,676,910. Of that number, about 5,000 are estimated to be speakers of Mirandese. That number increases to 15,000 if bilingual speakers of Mirandese and Portuguese are included.
Portuguese is the 1 and only official language of Portugal, spoken by virtually everyone. Mirandese is a government-recognized language with an estimated 5,000 primary speakers, and a total 12,000 bilingual speakers, in northeastern Portugal. Here is a list of all 8 languages spoken in Portugal: Mirandese is spoken in the northeast, in Miranda do Douro. A 2008 estimate of the total population of Portugal hovers around 10,676,910. Of that number, about 5,000 are estimated to be speakers of Mirandese. That number increases to 15,000 if bilingual speakers of Mirandese and Portuguese are included.
With approximately 215 to 220 million native speakers and 260 million total speakers, Portuguese is usually listed as the fifth most natively spoken language, the third-most spoken European language in terms of native speakers and a major language of the Southern Hemisphere. In March 2006, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, an interactive museum about the Portuguese language, was founded in Sao São, Paulo, brazil the city with the greatest number Of portuguese language speakers in the. World The museum is the first of its kind in the. world
The official language spoken by Brazilians is Portuguese -- Brazil was a colony of Portugal after the 1494 Treaty of Tordesillas. The Brazilian government did not obtain its independence until 1822 and therefore the people of Brazil still speak Portuguese. 
Portuguese dialects of Portugal. 1  Portuguese language (European Portuguese), with the following dialects 2  : The Southern and Central dialects-They include the dialect of the capital, Lisbon, which however has some peculiarities of its own. 1 The Southern and Central dialects-They include the dialect of the capital, Lisbon, which however has some peculiarities of its own. 2  Although the dialects of the Atlantic archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira have unique characteristics, as well, they can also be grouped with the southern dialects.
Portuguese is one of the major languages of the world (the sixth most spoken language worldwide), spoken by about 200 million people on four continents. 
Portuguese (portugues português, or in, full lingua) língua portuguesa Is a romance language and the sole official Language, Of, Portugal, Brazil, Mozambique Angola, Cabo-Verde guinea Bissau And sao São. tome tomé and principe príncipe In March 2006, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, an interactive museum about the Portuguese language, was founded in Sao São, Paulo, brazil the city with the greatest number Of portuguese language speakers in the. World The museum is the first of its kind in the. world
Portuguese is the official language in the countries of Portugal, Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, East Timor, Mozambique, and Sao Tome and Principe as well as the dependent Chines … e territory of Macau. Portuguese is the first language of about 220,000,000 people. For European Portuguese is the official language of the Republic. And it's the country's most widely known, spoken and understood language. But the Republic's regions differ just as much linguistically as they do in cuisine. For the regions have distinct ways of expressing themselves.
The Portuguese speak the standard peninsular Portuguese of Portugal. For European Portuguese is the official language of the Republic. And it's the country's most widely known, spoken and understood language. But the Republic's regions differ just as much linguistically as they do in cuisine. For the regions have distinct ways of expressing themselves.