He died in December 1915. The photographs of the electric car are kept by his great-grandson Graham Parker, a 76-year-old former BBC Look East weatherman. Mr Parker, who lives in Eaton, near Norwich, said he still marvelled at the range of ideas his great-grandfather had. He was into anything really, he said.
The very first car might well have been the invention of a Flemish missionary named Ferdinand Verbiest. Born in Flanders in 1623, Verbiest was an accomplished astronomer who left Europe for China in 1658.
Thomas Parker, a victorian inventor and innovator, came up with the first electric car in 1884. Parker was a prolific inventor, also known for taking part in instating overhead tramways around the UK and electrifying the London underground.
This car was made in Germany. This was the first ever car to be granted a patent in 1886. The world acknowledged Karl Benz as the Inventor of the modern automobile. He also invented the first ever car with an internal combustion flat engine in 1896.
Who invented the car in Victorian times? British engineer, Thomas Parker is credited with designing the one  of the first electric cars in 1884. Early on, he had a desire to  promote fuel efficiency and cut down on … some of the vehicle  pollution in London.
Parker claimed he had invented the electric car as early as 1884, and he also had a hand in refining car batteries for petrol-powered models.
Ferdinand Verbiest invented the first car in the year 1672. It was the first ever car invented and was powered by steam. Verbiest was an experimentalist and a missionary to China. He built his car in China as a toy for the Chinese emperor. Hence, you could rightly say, the first ever car was made in China.
The world's first electric car may have been built by a Victorian inventor. Newly unearthed photos show what appears to be an electric vehicle built in the year 1884. To the modern eye the machine looks like a horseless carriage, but sitting aboard at the wheel is the 19th century inventor Thomas Parker.
Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone in 1876. The first cars appeared during the Victorian times, but only rich people could afford them. Early car drivers were required to have a special attendant walking in front of the car, holding a red flag as a warning.