Confidence votes 2. Phillip is Prince Phillip and not King Phillip because the throne of England was not rightfully his, he married in to the English Monarchy. In this instance had it been his by birth and he had married Elizabeth, Elizabeth would be Queen Consort. 
Prince Philip is the husband of the queen. Elizabeth II is a queen regnant who is the actual monarch succeeded his father the King George VI. A kings wife is called queen consort but A husband of a queen regnant called prince consort. Men must have their own titles. Philip was not the heir to the throne of George VI. Elizabeth was heir to the throne of her father. She is Queen REGNANT, the queen who reigns, a job she inherited. Philip is a spouse.
—Liz Sawyer, Marysville, Calif. What Is Royalty in the 21st Century? A: As the husband of the monarch, Prince Philip, 89, is Queen Elizabeth’s consort, not the king. He holds the title Duke of Edinburgh and was made a prince of the United Kingdom by his wife in 1957. The spouse of a male British monarch, however, can take on the title of queen. 
Good question. If Prince Philip were to hold the title of 'King', then he would be the reigning monarch. He is not. Queen Elizabeth II is the reigning monarch of the UK. In royal rank, a king always outranks a queen. As such, the consort of a reigning Queen is given the title of Prince
The reason he is not styled King Consort, but merely Prince Consort, is that he is a foreigner and such a move would have proved unpopular. This is the same reason why Queen Victoria's husband was Prince consort rather than King consort. Her husband is the Queen's consort and is not entitled to be styled King. But when a King succeeds to the throne his wife takes the title of Queen because this is the title bestowed on the King's consort. The same thing happens lower down in the British Peerage. If a man is created Lord XXX, his wife becomes Lady XXX.
The present Queen, Elizabeth the Second, is Queen in her own right. Her husband is the Queen's consort and is not entitled to be styled King. But when a King succeeds to the throne his wife takes the title of Queen because this is the title bestowed on the King's consort. The same thing happens lower down in the British Peerage. If a man is created Lord XXX, his wife becomes Lady XXX.
Prince Philip is not a king because if he was he would technically rank higher than the Queen in precedence. Usually the husbands of queens are given the title of 'Prince' (e.g: Prince George, husband of Queen Anne, Prince Albert, husband of Queen Victoria). Her husband is the Queen's consort and is not entitled to be styled King. But when a King succeeds to the throne his wife takes the title of Queen because this is the title bestowed on the King's consort. The same thing happens lower down in the British Peerage. If a man is created Lord XXX, his wife becomes Lady XXX.
Prince Philip is the Duke of Edinburgh, and when he married Princess Elizabeth she became the Duchess of Edinburgh but he did not become a Prince until ten years later, when The Queen created him a prince in his own right. Men must have their own titles. Philip was not the heir to the throne of George VI. Elizabeth was heir to the throne of her father. She is Queen REGNANT, the queen who reigns, a job she inherited. Philip is a spouse.
Philip was not the heir to the throne. Elizabeth,his third cousin, was heir to the throne of her father,George VI.Philip,as male spouse,can not take on the titles of his wife.He has to have his own.He was born a Prince of the House of Shlesweig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glucksburg. This is just a courtesy title. However, the husband of a reigning Queen cannot become King Consort. This is because a woman takes the rank and title of her husband, but not vice versa. Therefore Prince Philip was unable to assume the titl