Cacti are one of my favorite types of plants to grow inside all year and outside in summer. Unfortunately, the ambient air tends to stay moist during most seasons, a condition which makes cacti unhappy. Cactus potting soil can enhance drainage, increase evaporation and provide the dry conditions that cacti favor.
Good drainage is essential to prevent cactus roots from rotting, but some organic material is good for nutrients and keeping the mix from drying out too quickly. I use a standard potting soil. I try to avoid soils that have large chunks of forest products, that is bark pieces and wood chips.
- A soil mixture for succulent plants should have a good crumbly structure. To test your soil mix, moisten and then squeeze with your hands: the mixture should not form a lump but crumble loosely. - Often it is recommended to repot your succulents every couple years.
Cactus potting soil is available in most nurseries and garden centers. It forms a better basis for cactus roots than regular soil and keeps roots and stems from sitting in moisture, which can cause rot. The right planting mix for cactus plants has superior drainage and will dry out quickly after watering.
Pot cacti and other succulents in containers that are as small as possible. For cacti, use a pot just large enough to fit the plant. For other succulents, use a pot just slightly larger than the root ball. For some plants, the holes in the bottom of the pot do not provide enough drainage.
This section will teach you everything you need to know about correctly potting your cactus or succulent plant including choosing the correct pot size and soil type, how to pot or repot your plant, how to knock out a plant, and how to handle spiny plants.
Soil for cacti can be prepared at home. While no soil mix is perfect in all situations for all plants, a good, standard soil recipe for cactus is 20 percent top soil to 10 percent peat moss to 70 percent pumice or vermiculite. Add a half cup of bone meal for every 12 quarts of soil mix to ensure a proper pH balance.
A Christmas cactus is a tropical plant. Unlike the Eastern cactus, it grows in places with constant humidity. This special type of plant can grow in a mixture of moss and soil with a little bit of water to keep it moistened.
Mixing your own potting soil allows you to ensure the cactus is in the best growing medium. Begin with sterile compost or garden loam, and mix it with equal portions of perlite and milled peat.