Hunting. Female lions, who make up 75 percent of the pride, are responsible for most of the hunting. Hunting usually takes place between evening and early morning. Antelopes, buffalo, impalas, zebras, wild hogs and wildebeest are common prey animals for African lions. The females work cooperatively to bring down prey. After the hard work of bringing down an animal is completed, the lions feast. Cubs are often left with the scraps after the adult lions have finished eating. Because only about one third of hunts are successful, lions may go days without a meal. Lions may also steal prey from other animals, like hyenas and wild dogs.
Male lions grow larger than females, reaching up to ten feet long (females reach up to nine feet long), plus a two-to three-foot-long tail. Male lions weigh from 330 to 550 pounds; females weigh 265 to 395 pounds. Lions stand between three and a half and four feet tall at the shoulder. Behavior: Lions live in groups of related females called prides, which may comprise several to as many as 40 individuals, including adults, sub-adults (two to four years old) and cubs, plus one or more resident males. Abundance of prey availability plays a significant role in the size of a lion pride.
Male lions are responsible for ensuring their territory remains their own. They go to great lengths to mark their parcel of land, which can be up to 100 square miles. Male lions will urinate to mark their scent and leave scuff marks as a visual cue to other lions that they're intruding on another pride's territory. After the hard work of bringing down an animal is completed, the lions feast. Cubs are often left with the scraps after the adult lions have finished eating. Because only about one third of hunts are successful, lions may go days without a meal. Lions may also steal prey from other animals, like hyenas and wild dogs.
Diet. Lions consume a wide variety of prey, from wildebeest, impala, zebra, giraffe, buffalo and wild hogs to sometimes rhinos and hippos. They will also feed on smaller animals such as hares, birds and reptiles. Lions are also known to attack elephants when food is scarce. 
Lion. Lions are the only truly social cats, with related females living together in prides overseen by male coalitions that compete for possession in fierce and often fatal battles.
Lions are very social cats and live in groups called prides. Asiatic and African lion prides are very different, though. African lion prides consist of up to three males, around a dozen females, and their young, according to National Geographic. There are prides that have as many as 40 members, though. Asian lions divide themselves into two prides. The females have a pride and the males have a pride.
The lion (Panthera leo) is one of the five big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae. The commonly used term African lion collectively denotes the several subspecies found in Africa. With some males exceeding 250 kg (550 lb) in weight, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger. The lion's closest relatives are the other species of the genus Panthera: the tiger, the jaguar, and the leopard. P. leo evolved in Africa between 1 million and 800,000 years ago, before spreading throughout the Holarctic region.
Female lions, who make up 75 percent of the pride, are responsible for most of the hunting. Hunting usually takes place between evening and early morning. Antelopes, buffalo, impalas, zebras, wild hogs and wildebeest are common prey animals for African lions. After the hard work of bringing down an animal is completed, the lions feast. Cubs are often left with the scraps after the adult lions have finished eating. Because only about one third of hunts are successful, lions may go days without a meal. Lions may also steal prey from other animals, like hyenas and wild dogs.
What Do Lions Eat. Despite the fact that they stalk their prey they do not have greater stamina in that they give up running after a short while. The lion ’s heart makes just 0.57% of their body weight in comparison to the hyena’s heart of about 1%. One of the hunting characteristics of lions is that they do not consider the direction of the wind although when they do so, they are probably much successful. One out of five lions is mostly ends up in a successful chase. Once the prey is grounded, it has a little or no chance to escape.
Most lionesses will have reproduced by the time they are four years of age. Lions do not mate at any specific time of year, and the females are polyestrous. As with other cats' penises, the male lion's penis has spines that point backward. The lion's closest relatives are the other species of the genus Panthera: the tiger, the jaguar, and the leopard. P. leo evolved in Africa between 1 million and 800,000 years ago, before spreading throughout the Holarctic region.