In law, fraud is deliberate deception to secure unfair or unlawful gain. Fraud is both a civil wrong (i.e., a fraud victim may sue the fraud perpetrator to avoid the fraud and/or recover monetary compensation) and a criminal wrong (i.e., a fraud perpetrator may be prosecuted and imprisoned by governmental authorities). In common law jurisdictions, as a criminal offence, fraud takes many different forms, some general (e.g., theft by false pretense) and some specific to particular categories of victims or misconduct (e.g., bank fraud, insurance fraud, forgery).
Fraud. A false representation of a matter of fact—whether by words or by conduct, by false or misleading allegations, or by concealment of what should have been disclosed—that deceives and is intended to deceive another so that the individual will act upon it to her or his legal injury. Fraud in the application for and receipt of public assistance benefits is punished according to the illegal gain: fraud in obtaining over $20,000 in food coupons is a class B felony; fraud in obtaining over $300 in food coupons is a class C felony; and all other public assistance fraud is a misdemeanor (§ 346-34).
Fraud consists of some deceitful practice or willful device, resorted to withintent to deprive another of his right, or in some manner to do him an injury. As distinguishedfrom negligence, it is always positive, intentional. Maher v. Hibernia Ins. Co.,67 N. Y. 292; Alexander v. Church, 53 Conn. 501, 4 Atl. 
A person who is dishonest may be called a fraud. In the U.S. legal system, fraud is a specific offense with certain features. Fraud is most common in the buying or selling of property, including real estate, Personal Property, and intangible property, such as stocks, bonds, and copyrights. Fraud in the application for and receipt of public assistance benefits is punished according to the illegal gain: fraud in obtaining over $20,000 in food coupons is a class B felony; fraud in obtaining over $300 in food coupons is a class C felony; and all other public assistance fraud is a misdemeanor (§ 346-34).
The purpose of fraud may be monetary gain or other benefits, such as obtaining a drivers license by way of false statements. A hoax is a distinct concept that involves deception without the intention of gain or of materially damaging or depriving the victim. In common law jurisdictions, as a criminal offence, fraud takes many different forms, some general (e.g., theft by false pretense) and some specific to particular categories of victims or misconduct (e.g., bank fraud, insurance fraud, forgery).
by FreeAdvice staff. Fraud occurs when someone gains something of value, usually money or property, from a victim by knowingly making a misrepresentation of a matter of fact. Generally, however, fraud is a felony charge with a potential sentence of six months to five years. Additional charges can be filed for each instance of fraud committed, so someone who passes several bad checks or uses a stolen credit card several times can be charged for each of those actions.
Fraud is a broad term that refers to a variety of offenses involving dishonesty or fraudulent acts. In essence, fraud is the intentional deception of a person or entity by another made for monetary or personal gain. Thousands of people each year fall victim to fraudulent acts -- often unknowingly. While many instances of fraud go undetected, learning how to spot the warning signs early on may help save you time and money in the long run.
For example, it is fraud for a person to make a false statement on a license application in order to engage in the regulated activity. A person who did so would not be convicted of fraud. Rather, fraud would simply describe the method used to break the law or regulation requiring the license. Fraud in the application for and receipt of public assistance benefits is punished according to the illegal gain: fraud in obtaining over $20,000 in food coupons is a class B felony; fraud in obtaining over $300 in food coupons is a class C felony; and all other public assistance fraud is a misdemeanor (§ 346-34).
Insurance fraud is any act committed with the intent to obtain a fraudulent outcome from an insurance process. This may occur when a claimant attempts to obtain some benefit or advantage to which they are not otherwise entitled, or when an insurer knowingly denies some benefit that is due. 
While fraud itself is an independent criminal charge, it can also appear in other charges as the means used or the intent required to commit a crime. For example, identity theft charges often require that a defendant steal another’s personal information with the intent to defraud them. Generally, however, fraud is a felony charge with a potential sentence of six months to five years. Additional charges can be filed for each instance of fraud committed, so someone who passes several bad checks or uses a stolen credit card several times can be charged for each of those actions.