1. Select a suitable pan for poaching. The pan must be shallow and wide, as the trick to poaching well, without an egg poacher is to gently slip the egg into a wide, shallow pan filled with simmering water. The pan should be able to take about 1.5 liters (2 3/4 pints) of water, or 10cm (4) depth of water. Remove the poached egg with a slotted spoon. Work quickly to transfer each egg onto the plate, letting excess water drip back into the pan. Larousse Gastronomique advises to refresh the egg in cold water and then drain on a cloth.
Directions: Fill an egg-poaching pan with 1/2 inch water, set over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Lightly oil the poaching cups and warm the cups in the pan. Crack an egg into each cup, cover the pan and cook to the desired doneness, 2 to 4 minutes; repeat to make 8 poached eggs. Transfer the eggs to individual plates, season with salt and pepper, and serve immediately. Serves 4
Using a poaching pan: Lightly grease the cups of an egg-poaching pan with cooking oil or shortening. Place poacher cups over the pan of boiling water (water should not touch the bottoms of the cups); reduce heat to simmering. Break an egg into a small dish. Carefully slide egg into a poacher cup. You can also poach eggs in other hot liquids, such as broth, milk, wine, or tomato juice. Step 2: Add the eggs Break one cold egg into a small dish. Carefully slide the egg into the simmering water, holding the lip of the dish as close to the water as possible. Take care not to break the yolk.
The truly easiest way to “poach” an egg is in the microwave. Use a small microwaveable bowl,such as a custard cup, and spray it with olive oil spray. Crack the egg in the bowl and cover with waxed paper. You may have to play with the cook times, but I cook mine for 45-50 seconds on 60% power. 4 Gently lift the poached eggs out of the pan with a slotted spoon and place on a plate to serve. To help the eggs keep from spreading too much some people have good results by placing a mason jar ring in the pan. Put a mason jar ring in the bottom of the pan and fill the pan with water to just above the mason jar ring.
The poacher is actually coddling the eggs, not truly poaching them, but if what you want is an egg with a cooked white and runny yolk, this is an easy way to do it. To use an egg poaching pan, remove the cups from the pan that you intend to use. Fill the pan with only 1/2-inch of water and bring it to a low boil. 4 Gently lift the poached eggs out of the pan with a slotted spoon and place on a plate to serve. To help the eggs keep from spreading too much some people have good results by placing a mason jar ring in the pan. Put a mason jar ring in the bottom of the pan and fill the pan with water to just above the mason jar ring.
It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Step 1: Bring the water to simmering Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan. This greasing step is optional but helps keep the whites from sticking to the sides of the pan. You can also poach eggs in other hot liquids, such as broth, milk, wine, or tomato juice. Step 2: Add the eggs Break one cold egg into a small dish. Carefully slide the egg into the simmering water, holding the lip of the dish as close to the water as possible. Take care not to break the yolk.
Poaching an egg in boiling water is never as simple as it seems. Timing the poaching of the egg in a large amount of water is often difficult, as is pooling the egg white. Everyday cooks may want to look into buying an egg poacher. Egg poachers come in a variety of styles, including stove top pans, electric poachers and microwave poachers. 
It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan. You can also poach eggs in other hot liquids, such as broth, milk, wine, or tomato juice. Step 2: Add the eggs Break one cold egg into a small dish. Carefully slide the egg into the simmering water, holding the lip of the dish as close to the water as possible. Take care not to break the yolk.
1 Remove the egg: Use a slotted spoon to remove the egg from the water. 2  Pat the egg dry: This is optional as well, but I like to pat the egg dry lightly with a paper towel. 3  Season and eat! 4  Place the poached egg on a salad, piece of toast, or a plate and season to taste with salt and pepper. Recipe Notes. 1  Poaching Multiple Eggs: If you want to poach multiple eggs at once, make sure your pan is big enough to accommodate all your eggs without crowding them; poach in batches if necessary. 2  Crack each egg into its own measuring cup before you start and slip them into the water one after the next.