Short for Pre-Boot Execution Environment. Pronounced pixie, PXE is one of the components of Intel's WfM specification. It allows a workstation to boot from a server on a network prior to booting the operating system on the local hard drive. 
PXE boot instructions overview. PXE boot instructions, which are defined within a job or job template, can direct controlled devices to boot using a virtual floppy disk, to boot and run the Deployment Agent, or to boot and run the operating system image installed on the hard disk. 
The PXE process consists of the client notifying the server that it uses PXE. If the server uses PXE, it sends the client a list of boot servers that contain the operating systems available. The client finds the boot server it needs and receives the name of the file to download. If a client is equipped with PXE and the server is not, the server ignores the PXE code preventing disruption in the DHCP and Bootstrap Protocol (BP) operations. The advantages of using PXE include: 1  The client machine does not necessarily need an operating system or even a hard disk.
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a progressive disorder that is characterized by the accumulation of deposits of calcium and other minerals (mineralization) in elastic fibers. 
The message Exiting PXE Boot ROM, when starting up a system, means that the system tried to load an Operating System from its network card, rather than from the hard drive. When this happens, it is needed to verify the boot order set in the Basic Input Output System (BIOS) setup pages. SYMPTOMS. 
The Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) is an industry standard client/server interface that allows networked computers that are not yet loaded with an operating system to be configured and boot ed remotely by an administrator. If a client is equipped with PXE and the server is not, the server ignores the PXE code preventing disruption in the DHCP and Bootstrap Protocol (BP) operations. The advantages of using PXE include: 1  The client machine does not necessarily need an operating system or even a hard disk.
What Is the PXE Server. Pre-Boot Execution Environment (PXE) technology is a standard created by Intel that establishes a common and consistent set of pre-boot services within the boot firmware. The end goal is to enable a client computer to boot from the network and receive a network boot program (NBP) from a server. 1 The PXE provider installed by default (on a Deployment Server) is BINLSVC. 2  You can remove BINLSVC from the server and replace it with a custom provider. 3  Note that BINLSVC is not installed with Transport Server.
PXE usually involves booting a computer from firmware -- data contained on a read-only-memory (ROM) or programmable read-only-memory (PROM) chip -- rather than from data contained on magnetic media. This gives rise to the terms 'PXE boot ROM' or 'PXE boot PROM' (sometimes written 'PXE bootprom'). vs. LabSlice. Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) refers to various methods of getting an IBM-compatible computer, typically running Windows, to boot up without the need for a hard drive or boot diskette. The methods evolved from the era before computers had internal disk drives
1 Change the provider. 2  The PXE provider installed by default (on a Deployment Server) is BINLSVC. 3  You can remove BINLSVC from the server and replace it with a custom provider. 4  Note that BINLSVC is not installed with Transport Server. 5  Run multiple providers on a single server. 1 The PXE provider installed by default (on a Deployment Server) is BINLSVC. 2  You can remove BINLSVC from the server and replace it with a custom provider. 3