If you downloaded Office from an online store, the product key should be in your email receipt. If you didn’t get a receipt, search your email for Microsoft or the name of the company where you bought Office. Check all mail folders including the Junk folder. If Office came with a box, card, or disc, look on the card or the packaging. If the product key isn't there, read the instructions on the package. You might be directed to Office.com/getkey for your product key. If Office came with your computer, look on the Certificate of Authenticity.
Yes. This post describes how to find windows xp/vista/7/8 product key in registry with Vodusoft key finder software. Vodusoft key finder software is an easy to use product key recovery program which can find product for Windows 8/7/vista/xp/2003/2008/2012, MS Office 2013/2010/2007/2003, and other software in registry. 1. Download and install Vodusoft Product Key Finder in your windows whose product was lost. how to find windows 8 product key in registry. 2. Start Vodusoft Product Key Finder, can click Recover to retrieve all valid product key from windows registry.
1 Unfortunately, manually locating the Windows 8 product key in the registry isn't possible so you'll need to use a program like this. 2  See my List of Free Key Finder Programs for more tools like Belarc Advisor but please try it first since I've confirmed that it correctly finds Windows 8 product keys. Note: You can find your Windows 8 or Windows 8.1 product key this way, no matter what edition of Windows 8 you're using. Finding your Windows 8 product key with a key finder is easy and should take less than 15 minutes:
With Windows 8, Microsoft has changed from stickers that have the product key that the user has to type in when installing the operating system to new BIOS embedded product keys. The idea is that by eliminating the sticker, you eliminate one of the easier ways for nefarious users to get a legitimate product key. 
Important: A product key finder program will only find your valid Windows 8 key if Windows 8 is installed and working, and if you've manually entered the Windows 8 product key in some previous installation. See my Windows Product Keys FAQ and Key Finder Programs FAQ pages for more help. Note: You can find your Windows 8 or Windows 8.1 product key this way, no matter what edition of Windows 8 you're using. Finding your Windows 8 product key with a key finder is easy and should take less than 15 minutes:
Hi bagrat85, The product key for Windows 8 operating system is pre-installed in the motherboard for Dell computers. If you have made a copy of Recovery DVD of the Windows 8 from this computer you can use that or you may want to contact Local Dell technical support and request for an OEM DVD or USB drive. 
You can find the product key in the Norton Online Store, if you purchased your product from Hong Kong Online Store. Get the product key from your Norton account. At the top of your Norton product window, click or. If you cannot start your Norton product, you can directly go to your Norton account. Log in to your account, if prompted. Under Services, select your Norton product.
Now you can take a few click to retrieve the windows product key: 1. Download and install Vodusoft Product Key Finder in your windows whose product was lost. how to find windows 8 product key in registry. 2. Start Vodusoft Product Key Finder, can click Recover to retrieve all valid product key from windows registry.
If Windows 8 came preinstalled on your computer, your product key should be on a sticker on your computer or with your documentation. It should look a lot like the image you see here. Note: You can find your Windows 8 or Windows 8.1 product key this way, no matter what edition of Windows 8 you're using. Finding your Windows 8 product key with a key finder is easy and should take less than 15 minutes:
How To Find Your Windows 7 Product Key. 1  Manually locating the Windows 7 product key from the registry is nearly impossible due to the fact that it's encrypted. 2  Note: The manual techniques used to locate the product key for older versions of Windows won't work in Windows 7. 