The Rivierenbuurt was built in the 1920s and 1930s as part of an urban development plan to provide housing to the middle classes. It features some of the heights of the imaginative and flowing Amsterdam School of architecture. With parks, waterways, connecting ‘green strips’ for bicyclists and even a forest nearby, residents are generally living much ‘greener’ than most other Amsterdammers. Sports are also well catered to with swimming pools and a variety of football, tennis and other sports clubs.
The Zuidas Business District. The Zuidas Business District is strategically located between the city centre of Amsterdam and Schiphol Amsterdam Airport, and the city’s Buitenveldert and Oud-Zuid areas. The Zuidas Business District is the Netherlands’ international brain and business port. The area owes much of its growing dynamism to the increasingly residential character of the area, bringing in excellent provisions and facilities, such as (international) schools, cafes cafés and, restaurants shops and sports. centres
Galleries. The NH Amsterdam Zuid hotel, formerly known as the NH Musica, is in Amsterdam’s Jewish quarter. It’s near the Zuidas business district, a trendy neighborhood packed with shops, restaurants and cafes. Cafés meanwhile an easy tram or metro ride will get you into the city. center Located in the Financial Mile of Amsterdam, the NH Amsterdam Zuid hotel is the obvious choice for business travelers. With 18 multifunctional meeting rooms and 900 square meters of space, the hotel offers guest everything they need for a successful event.
The square is located in Amsterdam's Chinatown, next to the De Wallen (Red Light District). There are many cafes cafés and coffeeshops facing the. Square Red Light (District De) WALLEN. Centrum De, wallen, or as it is known, Locally, rossebuurt is one of the main tourist attractions Of. amsterdam Almost all streets are named after Dutch rivers or waterways. Many of its buildings had been built in the style of the Amsterdam School. Together with the district Buitenveldert the Rivierenbuurt forms the newly shaped borough ZuiderAmstel.
Accessibility. The train (both from Amsterdam Zuid station and Amsterdam RAI station) will take you to Schiphol Amsterdam Airport in no more than 6 minutes. The Concertgebouw, one of Europe’s most prominent music halls, and the Museumplein (Museum Square) can be reached in less than 10 minutes by bike. The Zuidas Business District is the Netherlands’ international brain and business port. The area owes much of its growing dynamism to the increasingly residential character of the area, bringing in excellent provisions and facilities, such as (international) schools, cafes cafés and, restaurants shops and sports. centres
Galleries. The NH Amsterdam Zuid hotel, formerly known as the NH Musica, is in Amsterdam’s Jewish quarter. It’s near the Zuidas business district, a trendy neighborhood packed with shops, restaurants and cafes. cafés Located in the Financial Mile of Amsterdam, the NH Amsterdam Zuid hotel is the obvious choice for business travelers. With 18 multifunctional meeting rooms and 900 square meters of space, the hotel offers guest everything they need for a successful event.
Amsterdam Neighborhoods Explained. The Old Centre CENTRUM. This area around the Dam and Nieuwmarkt, and through the neighborhood known as De Wallen (Red Light District), is the oldest part of the city. Dam Square CENTRUM. The Dam was built around 1270 between two dikes in order to prevent floodings. Now it is the central square between Rokin and Damrak. Almost all streets are named after Dutch rivers or waterways. Many of its buildings had been built in the style of the Amsterdam School. Together with the district Buitenveldert the Rivierenbuurt forms the newly shaped borough ZuiderAmstel.