The eating habits of pink-toed tarantulas are similar to those of other tarantula species: they consume large insects, as well as small animals such as reptiles. Tree frogs may also become the prey of the pink-toed tarantula. Known as the clown of tarantulas, pink-toed tarantulas are docile and usually bite only when provoked. Prior to biting, they exhibit warning postures and use urticating hairs along their abdomens to deter attackers.
Pink-Toed Tarantulas. Pink-toed tarantulas earned their name as a result of their pink or orange-tipped legs. These arachnids are arboreal and, unlike most other terrestrial tarantula species, tend to jump. They require humid, hot conditions. Known as the clown of tarantulas, pink-toed tarantulas are docile and usually bite only when provoked. Prior to biting, they exhibit warning postures and use urticating hairs along their abdomens to deter attackers.
Pink Toe Tarantula for Sale. Pink Toe Tarantula Avicularia avicularia We have several Pink Toe tarantulas for sale at extremely low prices. These South American arboreal arachnids remain fairly small and have pinkish foot pads. They are a popular pet due to their fairly docile nature.
The Antilles pinktoe tarantula (Avicularia versicolor), also known as the Martinique red tree spider or the Martinique pinktoe, is native to Guadeloupe, Dominica and Martinique in the Caribbean Sea. It is popular as a spider pet because of its docile character and unique coloration. As they grow, they gradually lose their blue coloration; the carapace turns green, the abdomen red, and the legs turn green with pink tarsi and a covering of purple hairs. The species is in general more colorful than the related Pinktoe tarantula.
Pink-toed Tarantulas are one of the most docile of the arboreal species. Many of the other Avicularia species are more aggressive and will race away or even bite. Handling The Pink-toed Tarantula, as an arboreal species, are very agile and active. The Pink-toed Tree Spiders are docile and hardy. They are active during the day and will build extensive web tubes in their enclosure. Though they are much more docile than their close cousin the Antilles Pink Toe Tarantula they will jump, so care should be taken when handling them.
A related species of the pink-toed spider, the Antilles pink-toed (Avicularia versicolor) changes color as it matures. Newly hatched spiderlings bear blue markings. As spiderlings grow, these markings turn light pink and eventually redden. Antilles pink toe tarantulas prefer arboreal dwelling places. Known as the clown of tarantulas, pink-toed tarantulas are docile and usually bite only when provoked. Prior to biting, they exhibit warning postures and use urticating hairs along their abdomens to deter attackers.
Other common names they are known by are Pink-toed Tree Spider, Pink-toed Tarantula, and Guyana Pinktoe. Most of those available currently are imported from Guyana. The Avicularia genus is the most widespread group of spiders in the Americas and contains about 20 species. The Pink-toed Tree Spiders are docile and hardy. They are active during the day and will build extensive web tubes in their enclosure. Though they are much more docile than their close cousin the Antilles Pink Toe Tarantula they will jump, so care should be taken when handling them.
The pinktoe tarantula (Avicularia avicularia) is a species of tarantula native from Costa Rica to Brazil and the southern Caribbean. This species is sometimes called the Guyana pinktoe, Common pinktoe, or South American pinktoe. The mature pinktoe tarantula has a dark-colored body and pinkish feet, hence its namesake. 
The pink-toed tarantula. The pink-toed tarantula (Aviculara avicularia) is a species of tarantula native to South America, Costa Rica to Brazil and the southern Caribbean. 