interactionism. n. 1. (Philosophy) philosophy the dualistic doctrine that holds that mind and body have a causal effect upon one another, as when pricking one's finger (physical) causes pain (mental), or an embarrassing memory (mental) causes one to blush (physical). Compare parallelism 3. 
Interactionist theory is less tangible than say, role theory, because it involves internal mental models as opposed to external social models. Meaning-making occurs when the individual associates objects and actions with meaning for themselves. 
In sociology, interactionism is a theoretical perspective that derives social processes (such as conflict, cooperation, identity formation) from human interaction. It is the study of how individuals act within society. Despite these criticisms, interactionist methods do allow flexibility. The fact that there is no hypothesis means that the sociologist is not rooted in attempting to prove dogma or theory. Instead, researchers react to what they discover, not assuming anything about society. (This is not entirely true.
Definition. Interactionism (also known as symbolic interaction) is one of the main perspectives in Sociology. Interactionism uses a micro-level approach, focusing on social interaction in specific situations. Symbolic Interaction (or interactionism) is a branch of sociology that focuses on social interaction in specific situations. Interactionists focus on the micro-subjective aspects of social life, rather than on objective, macro-structural aspects of social institutions.
In sociology, interactionism is a theoretical perspective that derives social processes (such as conflict, [[[cooperation]], identity formation) from human interaction. It is the study of how individuals act within society. Interactions Edit. Interactionism is micro-sociological and believes that meaning is produced through the interactions of individuals. The social interaction is a face-to-face process consisting of actions, reactions, and mutual adaptation between two or more individuals. It also includes animal interaction such as mating
Interactionism is micro-sociological and believes that meaning is produced through the interactions of individuals. The social interaction is a face-to-face process consisting of actions, reactions, and mutual adaptation between two or more individuals. Despite these criticisms, interactionist methods do allow flexibility. The fact that there is no hypothesis means that the sociologist is not rooted in attempting to prove dogma or theory. Instead, researchers react to what they discover, not assuming anything about society. (This is not entirely true.
Interactionism is a theoretical perspective in sociology that focuses on the everyday interactions between individuals as the basis for the development of society. Interactionism in sociology focuses on the way that we act, or make conscious choices regarding our behavior that proceed from how we interpret situations. In other words, humans are not simply reacting to social stimuli: we are social actors and must adjust our behavior based on the actions of other social actors.
In sociology, interactionism is a theoretical perspective that derives social processes (such as conflict, cooperation, identity formation) from human interaction. It is the study of how individuals act within society. Interactions. Interactionism is micro-sociological and believes that meaning is produced through the interactions of individuals. The social interaction is a face-to-face process consisting of actions, reactions, and mutual adaptation between two or more individuals. It also includes animal interaction such as mating.
Lesson Summary. Interactionism is a theoretical perspective in sociology that focuses on the everyday interactions between individuals as the basis for the development of society. Interactionism focuses on humans as social actors rather than just focusing on the role of society. Interactionism in sociology focuses on the way that we act, or make conscious choices regarding our behavior that proceed from how we interpret situations. In other words, humans are not simply reacting to social stimuli: we are social actors and must adjust our behavior based on the actions of other social actors.