Radiation therapy or radiotherapy, often abbreviated RT, RTx, or XRT, is therapy using ionizing radiation, generally as part of cancer treatment to control or kill malignant cells. Radiation therapy may be curative in a number of types of cancer if they are localized to one area of the body. 
A radiation therapist uses the process of ionizing radiation to treat cancer patients. Radiation therapists are also known as therapeutic radiographers or radiotherapists. They sometimes are incorrectly called radiation technicians or radiation therapy technicians. These terms are limited to the technician that actually operates the radiation ... Radiation therapists might be employed in hospital radiation treatment departments. Radiation therapy may cause some cancer patients to experience nausea and vomiting. Some therapists may offer radiosurgery, which focuses beams of radiation directly at the tumor site.
Where Radiation Therapists Work: Radiation therapists may be employed by hospitals, or they may work in cancer treatment centers most commonly. Radiation therapists often work as part of a cancer treatment team including an oncologist, nurses, medical imaging professionals, and more. Radiation therapists use high tech machines, called linear accelerators, to administer beams of radiation directly to the patient's tumor. First, the radiation therapist must identify the location of the tumor using imaging equipment, such as a CT scanner. According to the BLS, this is called simulation.
Radiation Therapist. Radiation therapists use ionizing-radiation producing equipment to administer therapeutic doses of radiation as prescribed by physicians for treatment of disease — generally cancer. Many work in hospital settings, while others work in physician offices, outpatient care centers, and labs. 
The radiation therapist draws marks onto the patient’s skin as an external indicator of where the treatment will be directed. After the CT scan or simulation, these marks will be tattooed onto the patient in the form of small permanent dots, the size of a freckle. Sometimes a radiation therapist is called a therapeutic radiographer. A radiation therapist will work under the guidance of a Radiation Oncologist, in a team of health professionals who care for and treat cancer patients.
Radiation therapists use ionizing radiation to treat cancer patients. A radiation oncologist must go over the risks and benefits of each treatment before a plan can be put into place. Radiation treatment to the head and neck may damage salivary glands, causing a decrease in saliva production and dry mouth. Radiation therapists might be employed in hospital radiation treatment departments. Radiation therapy may cause some cancer patients to experience nausea and vomiting. Some therapists may offer radiosurgery, which focuses beams of radiation directly at the tumor site.
Radiation therapists work in healthcare facilities or cancer treatment centers. Radiation therapists treat cancer and other diseases in patients by administering radiation treatments. Radiation therapists keep detailed records of the treatment given to patients. Radiation therapists held about 19,100 jobs in 2012. Most therapists work in hospitals, offices of physicians, and outpatient centers. Radiation therapists are on their feet for long periods and may need to lift or turn disabled patients.
Tweet. A radiation therapist is an Allied Health Professional who uses ionising radiation to treat disease, usually cancer. A radiation therapist is also responsible for collecting relevant patient information and using this information to plan a patient’s treatment. Sometimes a radiation therapist is called a therapeutic radiographer. A radiation therapist will work under the guidance of a Radiation Oncologist, in a team of health professionals who care for and treat cancer patients.
Planning, or dosimetry is where the radiation therapist uses the data gathered during simulation to plan the patient’s treatment. This is usually done on the computer. The oncologist will indicate where the treatment needs to be delivered and what dose of radiation the patient will receive. Sometimes a radiation therapist is called a therapeutic radiographer. A radiation therapist will work under the guidance of a Radiation Oncologist, in a team of health professionals who care for and treat cancer patients.