QuickBooks makes it easy for you to set up a chart of accounts. Follow its “wizard” in initially setting up your company in QuickBooks, selecting the appropriate legal form and industry. If you are unable to find your precise industry, select the industry closest to yours; or if you are adventurous, start from scratch. 
With QuickBooks, you can use the following lists to analyze your business: 1  Chart of Accounts— For organizing your daily transactions. 2  Items List— For tracking the profitability of individual services and products sold. 3  Class List— For tracking different corporate profit centers (divisions). Chart of Accounts. The chart of accounts is a list of asset, liability, equity, income, and expense accounts to which you assign your daily transactions. This list is one of the most important lists you will use in QuickBooks; it helps you keep your financial information organized.
On the Chart of Accounts screen, click the New button to open the Account form menu. On the Account form menu, choose Expenses as your Category Type.. Enter Expense Details. On the Expense Page click on the Choose Payee drop-down menu to select the payee for your transaction. Enter the Payment date and Payment method for your transaction. Next, you’ll want to give this account a descriptive name so you can quickly find and use it later.
In QuickBooks, an account normally refers to an item in the Chart of Accounts list--an asset, liability, equity, income, or expense account. By convention and necessity, the purpose of accounts is mostly to categorize transaction records in a way that makes it easy to get financial and tax information from them. 
Details. To open the Chart of Accounts: In QuickBooks, go to Lists Chart of Accounts. To create a new account: 1  In QuickBooks, go to Lists Chart of Accounts. 2  At the bottom left, click to create a new account. 3  Select an account type and click Continue. 4  Enter the acc ount details and click Save and Close.
Go to Lists | Chart of Accounts. In the lower left corner, there’s a bar that says Account on it. Click the arrow next to it to open this menu: You can work with your Chart of Accounts by accessing this menu. To add an account to your QuickBooks Chart of Accounts, click New.
To add an account. Go to the Lists menu and click Chart of Accounts. Click Account at the bottom of the list and click New. Click the Type drop-down list and choose the type of account you want to add. Enter the account's name in the Name field. If you use account numbers, enter the account's number in the Number field.
2. In the preferences dialog box, select “Accounting” on the left side, then select the “Company Preferences” tab, then click the box next to “Use Account Numbers” and make sure that there is a checkmark in the box. 3. From the QuickBooks home page, select “Chart of Accounts.”. 4. Click “Account” at the lower left corner, then select “New.”. 5. Select the correct account type and for this example, we will choose an expense account. 6. Type the name of the account in the Account Name field
Your Chart of Accounts is the backbone of your QuickBooks data. Treat it with respect, but do learn how to work with it. Whether or not you recognize it as such, you have a Chart of Accounts in your personal financial life. You have money that comes in and goes out for various reasons. In the lower left corner, there’s a bar that says Account on it. Click the arrow next to it to open this menu: You can work with your Chart of Accounts by accessing this menu. To add an account to your QuickBooks Chart of Accounts, click New.