Only a medical professional can determine whether dry lips are a symptom of an underlying health condition. Being aware of dry lips that won't heal and additional symptoms is important. Often catching a serious ailment early on can be beneficial in the healing process. Most of the time dry lips are just that -- lips that have lost moisture because of dehydration, too much wind or too much sun. Occasionally, however, dry lips may signal a more serious condition. When a health problem exists, dry or cracked lips could be one of many symptoms. For example, if dry lips are accompanied by a fever, red eyes and tongue, swollen lymph nodes, and swollen, red skin on your hands and feet, they could be an early symptom of Kawasaki disease [source: Mayo Clinic ]
The above account for most chapped lips, but chapped lips can lead to other conditions such as lip-licking dermatitis and cheilitis (inflammation of the lips). Also, dry, cracked or chapped lips that don’t go away might be due to something else – including a variety of medial conditions. In fact, dry lips is also one of the signs of more widespread body dehydration. If you don’t drink enough during the day, your lips may become dry. What’s more, activities like skiing and motor boating, which combine wind and exposure to UV rays, can compound the situation leading to more water loss and chapping.
2. Dehydration. Lips don’t contain oil glands like your skin does, so they can dry to become chapped very easily. In fact, dry lips is also one of the signs of more widespread body dehydration. If you don’t drink enough during the day, your lips may become dry. What’s more, activities like skiing and motor boating, which combine wind and exposure to UV rays, can compound the situation leading to more water loss and chapping.
Chapped, or cracked, lips is the term commonly used to describe dry lips. Chapped lips can be caused by a number of factors, including the weather, excessive licking of the lips, and certain medications. Chapped lips is a very common condition that occurs only on occasion for most people. However, some may develop a more severe form of chapped lips called cheilitis. Cheilitis, which can be caused by an infection, is characterized by cracked skin at the corners of the lips. Dry lips are usually reversible with simple treatment and preventive measures. If your lips continue to be severely dry and cracked, consider making an appointment with a dermatologist.
Chronic chapped lips -- the kind that stay with you all winter, no matter what -- can be a painful hassle for months. Cracked, dry lips can be caused by everything from bitter winds, sun or dry air to cosmetics [source: Gibson ]. But one cause many people don't consider is dehydration. 
Dehydration leads to the condition of dry lips. Some cases of dry lips can be resolved if the cause is removed-for example, if chapped lips are caused by the use of skin care products that may cause dry skin or allergic reactions. The outer layer of the dry lips is thin. The lip area is more sensitive to chapping because the lips do not produce oils as the skin does to protect it from drying out. Common causes and risk factors of Dry lips: 1  Allergies to cosmetic products.
Chapped lips can also indicate underlying illnesses or conditions that you may not know about, such as dehydration, vitamin deficiency or more serious conditions, if they're very persistent and do not respond to home treatments. 
How to Treat Chapped Lips. The best thing you can do to treat and prevent chapped lips is keep your lips covered with an emollient lip balm or gloss! You can restore dry lips with consistency and patience. But chapped lips are not going to disappear in a day, and missing even one day of treatment can drive lips back to dryness. When chapping is severe or if you notice flaking along with a dry feeling, using a gentle lip scrub prior to applying lip balm is a great idea.
You may think of chapped lips as something that only happens in the winter. But the truth is, unless you take special care, your lips can get dry, sore, and scaly any time of year. If you do these things, you could be your own worst enemy when it comes to healthy lips. 