This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL because the HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. If your HDL is low, increasing your physical activity can increase it, which may help reduce your LDL level. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High.
This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL because the HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. Your total cholesterol is High, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. This could mean you have a high level of high-density lipoprotein, or good HDL cholesterol, which protects against heart disease.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. Your total cholesterol is High, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. This could mean you have a high level of high-density lipoprotein, or good HDL cholesterol, which protects against heart disease.
HDL (high density lipoprotein) is the good cholesterol. It acts like a cholesterol dump truck, gathering bad cholesterol from the arteries and carrying it back to the liver for clearance. This heart protective effect may even slow the buildup of plaque in the arterial walls of the heart. 
Women. Less than 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L). 60 mg/dL (1.6 mmol/L) or above. If your HDL cholesterol level falls between the at-risk and desirable levels, you should keep trying to increase your HDL level to reduce your risk of heart disease. If you don't know your HDL level, ask your doctor for a baseline cholesterol test. Increasing HDL cholesterol also can reduce your risk of heart disease. Although higher levels of HDL can be helpful in reducing your risk of having a heart attack, researchers caution that you should also consider other risk factors for developing
This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. If your HDL is low, increasing your physical activity can increase it, which may help reduce your LDL level. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High.
1 Having high levels of HDL cholesterol (at least 60 mg/dL) helps protect against heart disease and offers possibly even wider health benefits. 2  An analysis of health information from 2,476 adults published in the journal Gut showed that the higher a person’s HDL level, the lower their risk for colon cancer. 1 Your other cholesterol counts still matter — people with heart disease should aim for total cholesterol of under 200 mg/dL and LDL under 100 mg/dL — but taking steps to raise good cholesterol is an important part of the equation.
Your cholesterol levels are an important measure of heart health. For HDL cholesterol, also known as your good cholesterol, the higher the better. Here's how to boost your HDL. Increasing HDL cholesterol also can reduce your risk of heart disease. Although higher levels of HDL can be helpful in reducing your risk of having a heart attack, researchers caution that you should also consider other risk factors for developing