Infections. Viral infections such as mumps, flu and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling occurs in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of 'hamster cheeks'. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, occurring in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. Salivary stones (sialoliths) The most common causes of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones, are accumulations of crystallised saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva cannot exit through the ducts it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling
Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. It usually begins approximately 48 hours after the start of other symptoms such as fever and headache.
The following are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones, or sialoliths. The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. It usually begins approximately 48 hours after the start of other symptoms such as fever and headache.
Dry mouth, tooth decay, mouth sores, enlarged salivary glands, sialoliths, and recurrent salivary gland infections are possible symptoms. The syndrome also effects moisture in the eyes, which might cause chronic eye infections, corneal ulcers and vision loss. Sialadenitis can become a severe infection if not treated properly. Viral infections such as mumps, flu, Coxsackie viruses, echovirus and cytomegalovirus can cause the salivary glands enlarge. Cysts can develop in the salivary glands after injuries, infections, stones or tumors.
The swelling or pain in the salivary glands causes salivary gland disorders. However, swollen salivary glands caused by infection and obstruction need immediate attention. Obstruction of saliva occurs when the ducts become blocked and saliva cannot drain. Bacteria or viral infections like mumps or Sjogren’s syndrome can also cause swollen salivary glands. Causes. Many factors can interfere with the function of salivary glands, causing malfunction of the salivary gland or blocked salivary duct. Some of the common problems include the following.
Sjoegren'sjögren s syndrome causes decreased moisture in. Glands dry, mouth tooth, decay mouth, sores enlarged salivary, glands, sialoliths and recurrent salivary gland infections are possible. Symptoms the syndrome also effects moisture in the, eyes which might cause chronic eye, infections corneal ulcers and vision. loss Sialadenitis can become a severe infection if not treated properly. Viral infections such as mumps, flu, Coxsackie viruses, echovirus and cytomegalovirus can cause the salivary glands enlarge. Cysts can develop in the salivary glands after injuries, infections, stones or tumors.
The three major salivary glands are the parotid gland, submandibular gland (also called the submaxillary gland), and sublingual glands. Saliva drains into the mouth through small tubes called ducts. 1  The parotid gland makes 25% of the saliva and drains into the mouth near the upper teeth. Sialadenitis can become a severe infection if not treated properly. Viral infections such as mumps, flu, Coxsackie viruses, echovirus and cytomegalovirus can cause the salivary glands enlarge. Cysts can develop in the salivary glands after injuries, infections, stones or tumors.
Swelling of the salivary gland is usually unilateral (one-sided) but certain systemic causes may result in bilateral swelling. Depending on the extent of the enlargement and gland involved, the swollen gland may cause visible swelling of the face. Other symptoms that may also be present include 1  : Mouth pain. 2  Dry mouth. 
Swollen Salivary Glands Symptoms. Symptoms of swollen salivary glands depend on which gland is affected and whether it is infection or obstruction. Most often it is the parotid glands that get infected. There is tenderness and pain on both or either sides of cheek, as even single salivary gland can gets affected. 