Soft reset your iPad. If you want to shut down your iPad and restart, rather than just putting it to sleep, then follow these instructions: Hold down the Power and Home buttons together until a red slider appears on the screen.
1 Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears. 2  Drag the slider to turn your device completely off. 3  After the device turns off, press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo.
Press and hold the iPad power button on the top right-hand corner of the screen. Slide the arrow to the right to perform a soft reset. The iPad turns off. Press the power button to turn the iPad on.
A soft reset (turning the device off then back on) is similar to restarting a desktop computer and is one of the first steps in troubleshooting a device. A soft reset won't affect data on the device. 1  Press and hold the Power button until slide to power off appears then release. 2  Slide the Power switch right.
or resetting iPad. Restart iPad: Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears. Slide your finger across the slider to turn off iPad. To turn iPad back on, press and hold the Sleep/Wake until the Apple logo appears.
How to restart. 1  Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears. 2  Drag the slider to turn your device completely off. 3  After the device turns off, press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo.
Steps to soft reset the iPad Mini. Try these steps first to restart the device. 1. Hold down the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears. 2. Drag the slider to turn the device off. 3. Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the Apple logo appears to turn the iPad Mini back on. Steps to hard reset the iPad Mini. If a soft reset doesn’t work, then try to hard reset the device with these steps. To hard reset the iPad Mini, just hold down the Sleep/Wake button and the Home button at the same time for about ten seconds until the Apple logo appears.