Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Inflammation of the Eye. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Inflammation of the Eye returned the following treatments.
There are many different types of eye infections, and your eye doctor needs to determine the particular type of eye infection you have in order to prescribe the proper treatment. Your doctor may take a sample from the affected area of your eye for a culture to assess the exact type of infection you have, if any.
ANTIBIOTICS Antibiotics are generally used to treat, or sometimes to prevent a bacterial eye infection. Just as with antibiotic pills, certain antibiotics are more effective against certain bacteria, and sometimes an infection that cannot be cured with one medication may be eliminated by another.
Blepharitis is a common eyelid inflammation that sometimes is associated with a bacterial eye infection, symptoms of dry eyes or certain types of skin conditions such as acne rosacea.
5. NSAIDs are used to treat fever, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, menstrual pain, migraine, eye inflammation, allergic conjunctivitis, and other types of pain and inflammation. They work by reducing an enzyme in the body that causes inflammation and increases the feeling of pain.
Your eyes can get infections from bacteria, fungi, or viruses. Eye infections can occur in different parts of the eye and can affect just one eye or both. Two common eye infections are. 1  Conjunctivitis-also known as pinkeye. 2  Conjunctivitis is often due to an infection. 3  Children frequently get it, and it is very contagious.
Examples of viral, fungal and bacterial eye infections include: 1  Pink eye, or conjunctivitis. 2  Conjunctivitis, also called pink eye, is a common, highly contagious eye infection that often is spread among children in day care centers, classrooms and similar environments.
Ophthalmic prednisolone reduces the irritation, redness, burning, and swelling of eye inflammation caused by chemicals, heat, radiation, infection, allergy, or foreign bodies in the eye. It sometimes is used after eye surgery. Prednisolone is in a class of medications called steroids.