Growing up to 30 feet long, the reticulated python (Python reticulatus) of southeastern Asia and the East Indies is the longest snake in the world. These giants have an average weight of 250 pounds, but the largest known specimen in existence weighs in at a whopping 350 pounds. 
The Largest snake ever recorded is a 49-foot, 900 pound reticulated python that is currently in captivity in Java, Indonesia. This, along with most records of outsized snakes, is a complete hoax. Although this specimen is large, it is closer to 24 feet. That depends on how you define largest. The longest snake ever caught was a reticulated python measured at 32 feet. The heaviest snake ever caught was a green anaconda measu … ring 25 fee long and weighting 550 pounds. Anacondas are not quite as long a reticulated pythons, but they are thicker
The world longest snake is the Reticulated python, which has been known to grow consistently over 20 feet long if left alone to grow. The Guiness Book of Records lists the lon … gest Reticulated Python ever officially measured to be 32 feet, 9 1/2 long. 
The longest Python? The longest python on record was a reticulated python that reached a length of 10.1 meters. While it was common to find individuals with lengths up to 8 meters in the wild only a few decades ago, few wild creatures today exceed 5 to 6 meters. There are many big snakes in the world. There is no way to define what a giant snake is except that its bigger than most snakes. Most snakes are no larger than 1.25 meters. We quickly look at some of the record holders in various categories of snake 'gigantism'.
Published. At 7.67 meters (25 feet 2 inches) long, Medusa, a Reticulated Python owned by Full Moon Productions in Kansas City, Missouri, USA is the longest snake ever in captivity. 
The most popular 'giant' snake is the Indian Python (Python molurus). The longest pet snake on record reached a length of 5.8 meters. A subspecies of this python is the Burmese Python. There are many big snakes in the world. There is no way to define what a giant snake is except that its bigger than most snakes. Most snakes are no larger than 1.25 meters. We quickly look at some of the record holders in various categories of snake 'gigantism'.
Medusa. Where. United States Kansas City. When. The longest snake-ever (captivity) is Medusa, a reticulated python (python reticulatus), and is owned by Full Moon Productions Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri, USA. When measured on 12 October 2011, she was found to be 7.67 m (25 ft 2 in) long. Medusa also holds the current 'Longest Snake-Living (captivity)' title
The other snake that competes with the anaconda is the Asiatic Reticulated Python (Python reticulatus). The python holds the world's record for length of a snake, with the longest ever measured at 33 feet. Even though the longest python is longer than the record-holding anaconda, the girth of the anaconda is far bigger. Anacondas in the jungles of South America can grow as big around as a grown man! 
Local government official Rachmat said the reticulated python measured 48 feet 8 inches and weighed in at 983 pounds. The Guinness Book of World Records lists the longest ever captured snake to be 32 feet. The heaviest — a Burmese Python kept in Gurnee, Ill. — weighs 402 pounds, the book said on its Web site. 