Tulips bloom in spring, but preparation begins in early to late winter. Tulip bulbs need a minimum of four weeks of chilling before they will bloom. Nurseries often sell pre-chilled bulbs but if not, the process is simple. Tulip bulbs grow best planted 4 to 6 inches deep and 2 to 5 inches apart. You can force tulips to bloom out of season in winter by pre-chilling the bulbs and then planting them in pots indoors. The bulbs require the chilling period followed by 10 to 16 weeks in warm conditions before they will bloom. Start chilling the bulbs in late summer or early fall
Early-Blooming Tulips. The early blooming tulip varieties appear in early spring. Two varieties that bloom early are single early tulips and double early tulips. Single tulips bear one flower on each 10- to 16-inch stem. The flowers range in color from white and yellow to salmon and dark purple. This variety is not well-adapted to mild-winter regions, but can grow indoors in pots. Tulips come in a rainbow of colors, sizes and flower forms, with varying bloom times. These flowers range from early, late and mid-season bloomers, so tulip you can enjoy the beauty of these flowers from March through May.
Tulips are sun as well as shade lovers. But when planting your tulips this fall, don't be fooled by the patterns of sun and shade in the fall garden! Remember that come spring, when tulips bloom, all the deciduous, non-evergreen trees in your yard will be beautifully leafless. After the leaves are dead you can cut them back and just leave the bulbs until next year when many will bloom again. High quality bulbs should come back for about 3 years, but they do get weaker year after year. I would like to receive my spring bloomers (like tulips, daffodils, etc) in spring/summer.
Types. Tulips are a a perennial, so they will bloom every year. To keep your plants healthy, apply a fertilizer each spring and fall. You should also cut back the blossoms after their peak period is over. Time Frame. Tulips are known as a spring flower, and most tulips do bloom in spring. But different varieties bloom at different times, and there are early, mid-and late bloomers. Early bloomers generally bloom in April, mid-bloomers in May and late bloomers in June
Forcing Tulips. You can force tulips to bloom out of season in winter by pre-chilling the bulbs and then planting them in pots indoors. The bulbs require the chilling period followed by 10 to 16 weeks in warm conditions before they will bloom. Start chilling the bulbs in late summer or early fall. Tulip bulbs grow best planted 4 to 6 inches deep and 2 to 5 inches apart. You can force tulips to bloom out of season in winter by pre-chilling the bulbs and then planting them in pots indoors. The bulbs require the chilling period followed by 10 to 16 weeks in warm conditions before they will bloom.
Tulips have long been a popular selection for gardens and cut-flower arrangements. There are about 150 tulip species that come in dozens of colors and shades. With a little effort and know-how, even beginning gardeners will find tulips are easy to grow. Time Frame. Tulips are known as a spring flower, and most tulips do bloom in spring. But different varieties bloom at different times, and there are early, mid-and late bloomers. Early bloomers generally bloom in April, mid-bloomers in May and late bloomers in June
Potted tulips, which bloom just in spring, are usually forced for early bloom, which takes a lot of energy out of the bulb; it may take a few years before it reblooms, if at all. If you'd like to try to coax them to bloom another year or two, remove the dried leaves. Place the pot in a dark, cool, dry location. 1 Deadhead tulips after flowering. 2  Allow the foliage to yellow for about 6 weeks after flowering before removing it. 3  The bulbs of Species tulips may be left in the ground for several years; others may be lifted annually, once the leaves have died down, and ripened in a warm, dry place.