Hamamelis virginiana, known as common or American witch-hazel, is a species of witch-hazel native to eastern North America, from Nova Scotia west to Minnesota, and south to central Florida to eastern Texas. 
Hamamelis virginiana. The homeopathic remedy hamamelis is based on an herb called witch hazel, also known as snapping hazelnut and spotted elder. The medicinal properties of this plant were first discovered by the Native Americans who used it for several medicinal purposes. The process involved in preparing hamamelis is crucial like preparing any other homeopathic medicine. The freshly chopped bark obtained from the twigs and roots of the witch hazel plant is used to prepare this homeopathic remedy. The bark is subsequently drenched in alcohol.
Medical Definition of WITCH HAZEL. 1. : any small tree or shrub of the genus Hamamelis; especially: one (Hamamelis virginiana) of eastern North America that blooms in the fall. 2. : an alcoholic solution of a distillate of the bark of a witch hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) used as a soothing and mildly astringent lotion. Full Definition of WITCH HAZEL. 1. : any of a genus (Hamamelis of the family Hamamelidaceae, the witch-hazel family) of shrubs or small trees with slender-petaled usually yellow flowers borne in late fall or early spring; especially: one (H.
The end result from this process is the homeopathic medicine called hamamelis. The process involved in preparing hamamelis is crucial like preparing any other homeopathic medicine. The freshly chopped bark obtained from the twigs and roots of the witch hazel plant is used to prepare this homeopathic remedy. The bark is subsequently drenched in alcohol.
WITCH HAZEL Overview Information. Witch hazel is a plant. The leaf, bark, and twigs are used to make medicine. You may see a product called witch hazel water (Hamamelis water, distilled witch hazel extract). This is a liquid that is distilled from dried leaves, bark, and partially dormant twigs of Hamamelis virginiana
hamamelis. n. 1. (Plants) any of several trees or shrubs constituting the hamameliaceous genus Hamamelis, native to E Asia and North America and cultivated as ornamentals. See witch hazel
Noteworthy Characteristics. Hamamelis virginiana, known as common witch hazel, is a fall-blooming, deciduous shrub or small tree that is native to woodlands, forest margins and stream banks in eastern North America. It typically grows 15-20’ tall with a similar spread in cultivation, but can reach 30’ tall in its native habitat. 
For the cartoon character, see Witch Hazel (Looney Tunes). Witch-hazel (Hamamelis, /ˌhaeməˈmiːlɪs/) ˌhæməˈmiːlɪs is a genus of flowering plants in the Family, hamamelidaceae with three species In North (America. h, Ovalis. h virginiana And. h), vernalis and one each In (Japan. h) japonica And (China. h). mollis This plant extract was widely used for medicinal purposes by American Indians and is a component of a variety of commercial healthcare products. It is mainly used externally on sores, bruises, and swelling. Witch hazel hydrosol is used in skin care. It is a strong anti-oxidant and astringent.
Witch-hazel (Hamamelis, /ˌhaeməˈmiːlɪs/) ˌhæməˈmiːlɪs is a genus of flowering plants in the Family, hamamelidaceae with three species In North (America. h, Ovalis. h virginiana And. h), vernalis and one each In (Japan. h) japonica And (China. h). Mollis The North american species are occasionally called. winterbloom This plant extract was widely used for medicinal purposes by American Indians and is a component of a variety of commercial healthcare products. It is mainly used externally on sores, bruises, and swelling. Witch hazel hydrosol is used in skin care. It is a strong anti-oxidant and astringent.