Dermabrasion. Dermabrasion is a technique that uses a wire brush or a diamond wheel with rough edges (called a burr or fraise) to remove the upper layers of the skin. Someone who has a full-face dermabrasion, for example, will have a longer recovery time than someone who has just a small area of skin treated. Deeper abrasions take longer to heal. In general, regrowth of skin occurs in 5 to 8 days. This new skin is a pink or red color, which usually fades in 6 to 12 weeks.
Dermabrasion is used to treat damage and defects in the upper layers of the skin, such as: 1  Acne scars. 2  Removing and improving the appearance of acne scars are the most common uses for dermabrasion. 3  Scars caused by surgery or trauma, if they are not deep. 4  Superficial skin growths, such as rhinophyma. Someone who has a full-face dermabrasion, for example, will have a longer recovery time than someone who has just a small area of skin treated. Deeper abrasions take longer to heal. In general, regrowth of skin occurs in 5 to 8 days. This new skin is a pink or red color, which usually fades in 6 to 12 weeks.
Dermabrasion is a procedure in which the skin is cooled and then a specialized high-speed rotary instrument is used to sand the skin. This abrasive or planing action improves your skin contour as a new layer of skin replaces the treated skin, resulting in a smoother, refreshed appearance. Dermabrasion and microdermabrasion is a good option if you: 1  Are physically healthy. 2  Have mild or moderate degree of facial aging. 3  Have skin growths, acne facial scars, sun damage. 4  Have specific, but realistic goals in mind for the improvement of your
The Basics. Microdermabrasion is one of the more recent skin-care techniques to have crossed over from Hollywood to the mainstream. It's being advanced as an instant facelift -- an effective alternative to costlier and more invasive procedures like plastic surgery, chemical peels and Botox injections. 
Surgery Overview. Dermabrasion is a technique that uses a wire brush or a diamond wheel with rough edges (called a burr or fraise) to remove the upper layers of the skin. The brush or burr rotates rapidly, taking off and leveling (abrading or planing) the top layers of the skin. Someone who has a full-face dermabrasion, for example, will have a longer recovery time than someone who has just a small area of skin treated. Deeper abrasions take longer to heal. In general, regrowth of skin occurs in 5 to 8 days. This new skin is a pink or red color, which usually fades in 6 to 12 weeks.
Dermabrasion can improve acne scars and scars resulting from accidents or disease. Dermabrasion does cause crusting of the skin and does require downtime. Once the skin is healed in approximately one week, it is left red as it would be following a chemical peel, laser peel or other resurfacing technique. Dermabrasion and microdermabrasion is a good option if you: 1  Are physically healthy. 2  Have mild or moderate degree of facial aging. 3  Have skin growths, acne facial scars, sun damage. 4  Have specific, but realistic goals in mind for the improvement of your appearance.
Dermabrasion and dermaplaning help to refinish the skin's top layers through a method of controlled surgical scraping. The treatments soften the sharp edges of surface irregularities, giving the skin a smoother appearance. Dermaplaning is also commonly used to treat deep acne scars. Both dermabrasion and dermaplaning can be performed on small areas of skin or on the entire face. They can be used alone, or in conjunction with other procedures such as facelift, scar removal or revision, or chemical peel.
Dermabrasion is most often used to improve the look of facial skin left scarred by accidents or previous surgery, or to smooth out fine facial wrinkles. It's also sometimes used to remove the pre-cancerous growths called keratoses. Dermaplaning is also commonly used to treat deep acne scars. Both dermabrasion and dermaplaning can be performed on small areas of skin or on the entire face. They can be used alone, or in conjunction with other procedures such as facelift, scar removal or revision, or chemical peel.
Find Your Surgeon. Find Your Surgeon. Microdermabrasion treatments use a minimally abrasive instrument to gently sand your skin, removing the thicker, uneven outer layer. This type of skin rejuvenation is used to treat light scarring, discoloration, sun damage, and stretch marks. Microdermabrasion can: 1  Improve age spots and black heads. 2  Improve hyperpigmentation (patches of darkened skin). 3  Exfoliate your skin, resulting in a refreshed appearance.
Dermabrasion and Microdermabrasion. With dermabrasion, a dermatologist or plastic surgeon sands your skin with a special instrument. The procedure makes way for a new, smoother layer of skin to replace the skin that's been treated. Microdermabrasion uses tiny exfoliating crystals that are sprayed on the skin. It works best on problems such as dull skin, brown spots, and age spots.