Landforms are categorised by characteristic physical attributes such as elevation, slope, orientation, stratification, rock exposure, and soil type. 
A landform is a natural feature of the Earth's surface. Landforms together make up a given terrain, and their arrangement on the landscape or the study of same is known as topography. Typical landforms include hills, mountains, plateaus, canyons, valleys, as well as shoreline features such as bays, peninsulas, and seas, including submerged features such as mid-ocean ridges, volcanoes, and the great ocean basins.
A butte is a flat-topped rock or hill formation with steep sides. canyon. A canyon is a deep valley with very steep sides-often carved from the Earth by a river. cape. A cape is a pointed piece of land that sticks out into a sea, ocean, lake, or river. cave. A cave is a large hole in the ground or in the side of a hill or mountain.
Landforms are natural features of the landscape, natural physical features of the earth's surface, for example, valleys, plateaus, mountains, plains, hills, loess, or glaciers. 1  Valleys. 
Biological factors. Plants, animals, micro-organisms, and humans affect soil formation. Animals and micro-organisms mix soils and form burrows and pores. Plant roots open channels in the soils. Different types of roots have different effects on soils. Grass roots are “fibrous” near the soil surface and easily decompose, adding organic matter. Taproots open pathways through dense layers.
Landforms and Definitions List List of Landforms. Alluvial fan: land formation that occurs when sedimentary materials such as rocks, gravel, and silt, are deposited onto land as a result of decreasing or stopped water flow from a river or stream source. Altitude (elevation): the height above sea level. 
About 10 to 20 percent of most deserts are covered by sand. Gravel, boulders, mountains, clay, and various types of soil cover most of the rest of the land. Most desert soil is too dry to support widespread vegetation, but much of it is rich in salt, uranium, and other minerals. In addition, large deposits of oil and natural gas lie under many desert areas
Soil fertility is greatly influenced by the factors of soil formation. As soils form, nutrients are being continually removed from and added to the soil with time. The conditions that are present during soil formation ultimately determine how much and what kind of nutrients the soil can naturally supply and hold. The type of parent material and how the soil is formed will greatly influence the properties of the soil. There are two general rules that we may state about the influence of parent material on soil formation: 1  Finely textured parent materials tend to weather into finely textured soils.
Mountains are formed when there is movement in the Earth's crust. The collision of two plates causes the land to be pushed upwards, resulting in the formation of mountains. They may also be formed as a result of volcanic activity. The basic types of mountains are folded mountains, fault-block mountains, dome mountains and volcanic mountains. 
A marsh is a type of freshwater, brackish water or saltwater wetland that is found along rivers, pond, lakes and coasts. Marsh plants grow up out of the water. mesa. A mesa is a land formation with a flat area on top and steep walls-usually occurring in dry areas. A canyon is a deep valley with very steep sides-often carved from the Earth by a river. cape. A cape is a pointed piece of land that sticks out into a sea, ocean, lake, or river. cave. A cave is a large hole in the ground or in the side of a hill or mountain.