How to Cook Asparagus on the Stove. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender.
How to roast asparagus: turn on oven, put asparagus in oven, cook until brown and tender. Seriously, it pretty much is just that easy—just add a bit of cooking oil to the asparagus to keep it from drying out in the oven. Sprinkle with salt and maybe a squirt of lemon juice before serving, if you're so inclined. To Microwave asparagus: Set asparagus in a microwave-safe baking dish, add 2 tablespoons of water, cover, and microwave on high until tender, 2 to 3 minutes. Let stand, still covered, another 3 minutes or so.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Break off the tough ends of the asparagus and, if they're thick, peel them. Place the asparagus on a baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil, then toss to coat the asparagus completely. Spread the asparagus in a single layer and sprinkle liberally with salt and pepper. Roast the asparagus for 25 minutes, until tender but still crisp
How to Roast Asparagus. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender.
said: My favorite way of cooking asparagus is to place them in a dish, pour olive oil over them, then sprinkle pepper and Kosher salt over them, then toss until evenly coated. Either grill them on a bbq or a grill pan on the stove for about 4-5 minutes depending on the thickness. 
1 Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 3  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 4  Arrange the asparagus onto a baking sheet in a single layer. Ready In. 1 
3. Steam asparagus until very tender and mushy or baby food puree. Step 3: Puree the asparagus when finished steaming. Place into your choice of appliance for pureeing and begin pureeing. Step 4: Add water as necessary to achieve a smooth, thin consistency. Place a strip of folded aluminum on the bottom and up the sides of the pan, extending over the edges. Bring water to a boil; add asparagus spears and cook, uncovered, until crisp-tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Use foil strips to gently lift the spears to a serving dish. Double Boiler or Percolator: To steam asparagus in an upright position, fasten the stalks into a bundle using a band of foil or string
1 Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 2  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 3  Arrange the asparagus onto a baking sheet in a single layer. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until just tender, 12 to 15 minutes depending on thickness. Ready In. 1  Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 3  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 4