Vardenafil (INN) is a PDE5 inhibitor used for treating erectile dysfunction that is sold under the trade names Levitra (Bayer AG, GSK, and SP), Staxyn in India, and Vivanza in Italy. Vardenafil's indications and contra-indications are the same as with other PDE5 inhibitors; it is closely related in function to sildenafil citrate (Viagra) and tadalafil (Cialis).
See your doctor. Indication. LEVITRA is a prescription medicine used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) in men. Important Safety Information. 1  LEVITRA can cause your blood pressure to drop suddenly to an unsafe level if it is taken with certain other medicines. 2  With a sudden drop in blood pressure, you could get dizzy, faint, or have a heart attack or stroke.
With Levitra, the effects last for about 5 hours. With Viagra, the effects last approximately 4 hours. Cialis works a bit faster (within about 15 minutes), and the effects last much longer -- up to 36 hours in some cases. Stendra can start working in as little as 15 minutes and last up to 6 hours. A. A. There are only five oral drugs approved by the FDA to treat erectile dysfunction: tadalafil (Cialis), vardenafil (Levitra, Staxyn), avanafil (Stendra), and sildenafil (Viagra). All work by increasing the flow of blood into the penis so that when a man is sexually stimulated, he can get an erection.
Uses of This Medicine. Vardenafil is used to treat men who have erectile dysfunction (also called sexual impotence). Vardenafil belongs to a group of medicines called phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors. These medicines prevent an enzyme called phosphodiesterase type-5 from working too quickly. The penis is one of the areas where this enzyme works.
Levitra is the brand name for vardenafil, an oral medication used to treat men who have sexual impotence, also known as erectile dysfunction or ED. It's part of a group of drugs known as phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitors. Levitra increases venous congestion in that area and helps a man get and keep an erection during sexual intercourse. By itself, Levitra does not cause an erection-there must also be physical stimulation of the penis to achieve an erection.
Uses For Levitra. Vardenafil is used to treat men who have erectile dysfunction (also called sexual impotence). Vardenafil belongs to a group of medicines called phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors. These medicines prevent an enzyme called phosphodiesterase type-5 from working too quickly
Uses. Vardenafil is used to treat male sexual function problems (impotence or erectile dysfunction-ED). In combination with sexual stimulation, vardenafil works by increasing blood flow to the penis to help a man get and keep an erection. This drug does not protect against sexually transmitted diseases (such as HIV, hepatitis B, gonorrhea, syphilis). Practice  safe sex  such as using latex condoms
A: Levitra (vardenafil) is an oral medication indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in men. Levitra relaxes muscles and increases blood flow to specific areas of the body thereby enhancing erectile function. Levitra increases venous congestion in that area and helps a man get and keep an erection during sexual intercourse. By itself, Levitra does not cause an erection-there must also be physical stimulation of the penis to achieve an erection.