First Close Teamviewer, if it is running. Click on type %appdata% delete TeamViewer folder. Delete registry folder: hkcu/software/teamviewer and hklm/software/teamviewer. Change the MAC Address of your LAN card, this tutorial can help you. Restart your Teamviewer and you should get a new ID and also should solve the “ Commercial Use Suspected ” problem. No doubt TeamViewer is one of the best, free remote access and remote desktop sharing software over internet. (**Quick Update** – Teamviewer is a remote desktop sharing software.
One common mistake most people commit while installing Teamviewer on their system is that, they forget to select the option ‘For Personal Use’ and instead install with the default option ‘For Commercial Use’. As a result teamviewer stops functioning after a couple of days from installation. 
Scroll through the programs folder and click “TeamViewer.” Click “Remove/Uninstall” and click “Yes” to confirm the uninstall process. 3. Double click “My Computer” on the desktop and double click the “C:” drive. 4. Double click the “Programs Files” folder. 5. Commonly used manual method to remove TeamViewer. 1. Click on the Start button, select Run, and type taskmgr in the open box to start Task Manager. 2. End all related processes in Task Manager. 3. Close
I am trying to use TeamViewer on a personal server with Microsoft 2012 R2 and using the Administrator account. Not sure if that makes a difference? Don't remember having the private use option on first install, and after doing what you said still comes up with Trail version *expired* (Administrator). I feel for you. Find myself in the same boat. Suggested 'fix', fixes nothing.
You can do step 3 by doing the following: Start – Run – type “regedit” and browse to the location Hkey Local User / Software / Teamviewer and then delete the folder. I Did this tutorial without changing the mac on Windows 7 Professional. And it worked perfectly. Clean your systems registry – you can use a free registry cleaner for this purpose-http://www.techbuzz.in/how-can-i-clean-my-computer-registry-for-free.php. install a fresh copy of Teamviewer. Ensure you select the option ‘ Personal Use’ (I’m assuming that you are playing fair here) !
1. Click “Start” on your computer and click “Run. 2. Scroll through the programs folder and click “TeamViewer.” Click “Remove/Uninstall” and click “Yes” to confirm the uninstall process. 3. Double click “My Computer” on the desktop and double click the “C:” drive. 4. Double click the “Programs Files” folder. 5. Locate the TeamViewer folder. 6. Commonly used manual method to remove TeamViewer. 1. Click on the Start button, select Run, and type taskmgr in the open box to start Task Manager. 2. End all related processes in Task Manager. 3. Close
This can be done with free uninstallers or by using Window’s default ‘ Add or remove ‘ program which can be found at: Start Run %appdata% delete TeamViewer folder and also delete “ C:\\Program Files\\Teamviewer ”. hkcu/software/teamviewer and hklm/software/teamviewer. Clean your systems registry – you can use a free registry cleaner for this purpose-http://www.techbuzz.in/how-can-i-clean-my-computer-registry-for-free.php. install a fresh copy of Teamviewer. Ensure you select the option ‘ Personal Use’ (I’m assuming that you are playing fair here) !
One common mistake most people commit while installing Teamviewer on their system is that, they forget to select the option ‘For Personal Use’ and instead install with the default option ‘For Commercial Use’. 
1 Click on the Connection menu and launch Exit TeamViewer option. 2  Close below introduction of TeamViewer. 3  To cleanly uninstall TeamViewer for your system, you open Windows Explorer and Registry Editor, search and delete those temporary installation files that were produced by TeamViewer. 1 I hit the red x button to close the following TeamViewer application. 2  I go to Control Panel and choose the Uninstall or change a program in it. 3  When I locate the following TeamViewer 8 item (product version, 8.0.20202), I press the Enter key to launch Windows Uninstall process.