Yes, dogs can eat ginger. In fact, ginger can be rather good for your dog’s health. Ginger has been shown to help dogs who may suffer from motion sickness. If your dog gets car sick, even on short rides in the car, try feeding her a treat containing ginger (e.g. ginger cookies) about half an hour before the car ride. Ginger or ginger root is so healthy for humans that in some parts of the world it’s considered to be a medicine. In human studies, ginger has been shown to relieve gastrointestinal distress, act as an anti-inflammatory and even reduce the risk of colorectal cancer.
In other words, onion toxicity can cause the red blood cells circulating through your pet’s body to burst. A small amount can be toxic to your dog or cat. Garlic, chives, and leeks are also part of the Allium family, and are poisonous to both dogs and cats. Onions and Garlic. Onions contain an ingredient called thiosulphate which is toxic to cats and dogs. The ingestion of onions, onion powder, or even cooked onion causes a condition called hemolytic anemia, which is characterized by damage to the red blood cells.
Ginger has long been used to treat and prevent medical problems. In dogs it can help prevent heart disease, colitis, bronchitis, and many others. It can also help your dog with motion sickness (car-sickness), nausea, and inflammation problems like arthritis. The best thing to do if your dog gets motion sickness is give a few drops of ginger root extract to your dog about 30 minutes before your car trip, if your planning a long trip try a few drops throughout the trip. Also, it may be a good idea to consult your veterinarian
The answer would be yes, dogs can eat ginger snap cookies. However, it’s best not to feed your dog a good amount of ginger snaps at once as they contain a good amount of flour and sugar. While flour and sugar aren’t toxic to dogs, they are rich in calories, and a regular calorie-rich diet can lead to obesity in dogs. In summary, dogs can eat ginger snaps. It might even be a good idea to give your dog a few ginger snaps before a car ride to avoid her getting car sick
ginger is safe for dogs with upset stomach HOWEVER, you should check with a vet as dosage would vary depending on size and weight of your dog. They way I understood it from my grandfather you had two choices: Almond or Ginger and you have to be careful with ginger because while Almond barks, Ginger snaps. 
If you mean Is the spice Ginger harmful to dogs, then the quick answer is no. Gingerbread in general is people food, but if the dog gets a piece of a cookie, no harm done. There are other substances that are harmful: chocolate, grapes, raisins, onions and large doses of garlic ARE toxic. 
Conclusion on Ginger. Pure ginger can be beneficial to your dog’s health for many reasons and the best part is it’s a natural remedy. It can help relieve nausea and motion sickness while improving poor blood flow, lack of appetite or a low pulse rate. In addition, it can remove toxins from your dog’s body. The best thing to do if your dog gets motion sickness is give a few drops of ginger root extract to your dog about 30 minutes before your car trip, if your planning a long trip try a few drops throughout the trip. Also, it may be a good idea to consult your veterinarian
Yes, dogs can eat ginger in small quantities. Ginger always is consumed as a medicine or spice. Many homemade dog foods have ginger in them. Ginger is high in vitamins and minerals, and it has many health benefits such as anti viral, anti toxic and anti fungal. People like to travel with their dogs by car, but if your dog has motion sickness, that may be a terrible trip. The ginger is effective at relieving the carsickness. Ginger cookies, fresh ginger or pickled ginger can all be used to ease motion sickness.
While dogs can eat ginger and benefit from the many beneficial health effects of ginger, eating an excessive amount can lead to gas, bloating, heartburn and nausea, and other problems in the digestive system. Ginger or ginger root is so healthy for humans that in some parts of the world it’s considered to be a medicine. In human studies, ginger has been shown to relieve gastrointestinal distress, act as an anti-inflammatory and even reduce the risk of colorectal cancer.