Copernican heliocentrism is the name given to the astronomical model developed by Nicolaus Copernicus and published in 1543. It positioned the Sun near the center of the Universe, motionless, with Earth and the other planets rotating around it in circular paths modified by epicycles and at uniform speeds. The Copernican model departed from the Ptolemaic system that prevailed in Western culture for centuries, placing Earth at the center of the Universe, and is often regarded as the launching point to modern astronomy and the Scientific Revolution.
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve around the Sun at the center of the Solar System. In such systems the origin in the center of mass of the Earth, of the Earth–Moon system, of the Sun, of the Sun plus the major planets, or of the entire solar system can be selected; see center-of-mass frame.
In the heliocentric system, the Sun is considered to be the center of the solar system. All of the planets rotate about the Sun. The Moon rotates around the Earth, and thus moves around the Sun with the Earth. An illustrationof the heliocentric model of the solar system, from the Harmonia Macrocosmica star atlas of Dutch-German cartographer Andreas Cellarius, circa 1660. Modeled the movements of the Sun, the Moon, and the five known planets in the skies above, using a heliocentric system of orbits. Born: 1473 in Torun, Poland. Died: 1543 in Frombork, Poland. Quotation: Finally we shall place the Sun himself at the center of the Universe.
Laid the foundation for modern astronomy. Nicolaus Copernicus was a Polish astronomer who put forth the theory that the Sun is at rest near the center of the Universe, and that the Earth, spinning on its axis once daily, revolves annually around the Sun. This is called the heliocentric, or Sun-centered, system. 
The old Newtonion/Copernican Heliocentric model of our solar system is an unproven theory. A bright fellow named Dr. Pallathadka Keshava Bhat came up with quite a different way to think of our Solar System. 
The non-geocentric model of the Universe was proposed by the Pythagorean philosopher Philolaus (d. 390 BC). According to Philolaus, there was at the center of the Universe a central fire around which the Earth, Sun, Moon and Planets revolved in uniform circular motion. In such systems the origin in the center of mass of the Earth, of the Earth–Moon system, of the Sun, of the Sun plus the major planets, or of the entire solar system can be selected; see center-of-mass frame.
In the heliocentric model, the sun is at the center of our solar system and the earth is the third planet that orbits it. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. Nicolaus Copernicus was the astronomer that came up with the idea This is a very common misconception. The one who first came up with the idea and even presented a model of … the Heliocentric view of the universe was Aristarchus, NOT Copernicus. 1 person found this useful. Answered.
The heliocentric model is a theory that places the Sun as the center of the universe, and the planets orbiting around it. The heliocentric model replaced geocentrism, which is the belief that the Earth is the center of the universe. The geocentric model was the prevailing theory in Ancient Greece, throughout Europe, and other parts of the world for centuries.
Copernicus proposed a heliocentric model of the solar system – a model where everything orbited around the Sun. Today, with advancements in science and technology, the geocentric model seems preposterous. The geocentric model, also known as the Ptolemaic system, is a theory that was developed by philosophers in Ancient Greece and was named after the philosopher Claudius Ptolemy who lived circa 90 to 168 A.D. It was developed to explain how the planets, the Sun, and even the stars orbit around the Earth.