The alveolar epithelium is composed of two main cell types. The type I cells are large flat thin cells that cover about 95% of the surface area. They are a major part of the epithelial barrier and express genes that indicate they have significant metabolic functions. 
Simple columnar has single layer of tall, column-shaped cells. This type of epithelium often contains absorptive cells interspersed with secretory cells. In the small intestine, for example, there are secretory cells called goblet cells which secrete mucus. There are three types of cell junctions found in epithelia: (1) tight junctions, which are found only in epithelia, (2) adhering junctions, and (3) gap junctions. Both adhering and gap junctions are found in other tissues as well.
Stratified squamous has multiple layers of cells, the outermost layer of which contains squamous cells. There are two varieties: nonkeratinized (e.g., lining of vagina) and keratinized, in which the superficial cell layers have been transformed into a hard layer of nonliving keratin (e.g., epidermis of skin). There are three types of cell junctions found in epithelia: (1) tight junctions, which are found only in epithelia, (2) adhering junctions, and (3) gap junctions. Both adhering and gap junctions are found in other tissues as well.
The alveolar epithelium comprises two main cell types: the alveolar type I and alveolar type II cell. The type I cell is a complex branched cell with multiple cytoplasmic plates that are greatly attenuated and relatively devoid of organelles; these plates represent the gas exchange surface in the alveolus. 
1 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 2  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface. 3  Regardless of whether the surface cells are squamous, cuboidal, or columnar, the underlying cells are usually cuboidal. 1 Simple signifies a single layer of epithelial cells.  2 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 3  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface.
Epithelium (epi- + thele + -ium) is one of the four basic types of animal tissue. The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells
Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a type of tissue that has a single layer of cells arranged in a fashion that appears to be stratified, whereas transitional epithelial tissue is an elastic-like epithelial tissue that swells, contracts, and changes shape as necessary. Regardless of the shape, size, or arrangement of the cells, they are still a type of, or part of, epithelial tissue, just like all our differently sized, shaped, and arranged plastic bricks are still Legos.
Stratified cuboidal usually has two or three layers of cuboidal cells. This type of epithelium is largely confined to the lining of large ducts. Stratified columnar has several cell layers, the outermost of which contains columnar cells. There are three types of cell junctions found in epithelia: (1) tight junctions, which are found only in epithelia, (2) adhering junctions, and (3) gap junctions. Both adhering and gap junctions are found in other tissues as well.
Epithelia are grouped into two general classes: (1) Epithelial Membranes-covering or lining of the body (skin or stomach lining) and (2) Glandular Epithelium-for increased secretion epithelial cells grow down into the connective tissue and form glands. This cell type is found primarily in duct systems (Cuboidal 2) or as the collecting tubules in kidney (Cuboidal 3). Simple columnar epithelium-cells taller than wide w/ many subtypes. It forms most of the large ducts in the body (Columnar duct) and the lining of absorptive cells in the gut (Columnar Absorptive 1).