An intermediate-level Pilates exercise, the side plank on the elbow requires you to support your body weight on your forearm and the side of one foot. Considerable core strength is needed to keep your hips from sinking toward the floor. The side plank also works several other muscles that provide additional stability as you hold the position. These muscles include the gluteus maximus, the quadriceps on the front of your thighs and the hamstrings on the back of your thighs.
Plank Exercise #2: Side planks. 1  Balance your body on one forearm and the side of your foot. 2  Lift your body gently and keep the other hand on your sides. 3  Feel the contraction in your abs and breathe. Plank Exercise #1: Planks. 1  With a yoga mat, start off in the push-up position. 2  Contract your core in, gently get the toes curled and lengthen your spine. 3  Flex the abs muscles and feel a squeeze in your glute muscles. 4  Time yourself, stay in the position for 20-30 seconds and do 3-4 reps daily.
Primary Muscles. The primary muscles the plank works are the erector spinae, the rectus abdomimus and the transverse abdominus. The erector spinae is a large muscle that runs up the length of the back. It surrounds your spine and allows you to straighten your back and rotate side to side. Stabilizing Muscles. The plank is a full-body exercise, making it valuable in almost any training program. When you perform the plank on your forearms, you activate the trapezius and rhomboids at the upper back. All three deltoid muscles and the rotator cuff at the shoulder work to stabilize your torso.
The side plank primarily works muscles in your core. It strengthens abdominal and back muscles, particularly the transversus abdominis, rectus abdominis, obliques and quadratus lumborum. It also targets the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus in the hips, as well as the adductor muscles located in the inner thigh. The side plank also works several other muscles that provide additional stability as you hold the position. These muscles include the gluteus maximus, the quadriceps on the front of your thighs and the hamstrings on the back of your thighs.
Easier Version. If you are not quite able to perform a side plank on the elbow with good form, you can modify the exercise to strengthen many of the same muscles. Instead of extending your legs, bend your knees so your forearm and the side of one knee support your body weight. The side plank also works several other muscles that provide additional stability as you hold the position. These muscles include the gluteus maximus, the quadriceps on the front of your thighs and the hamstrings on the back of your thighs.
To test and strengthen your balance, try a side plank with a leg raise – get into side plank position, then lift your top leg and hold for one count. Lower it and repeat, then switch sides. In addition, planks work all the muscles you need to maintain proper posture, like your back, chest, shoulders, abs, and neck. With exercise, sometimes the simplest of movements result in the greatest gains to your fitness, and this is certainly the case with planks. To do a plank, you hold your body (the trunk portion) off the ground, making sure to hold it in a straight line.
If you’re interested in using your own body weight to get fit and functional, but don’t know exactly what muscles does the plank work, this article gives you a refreshing look at one of the best forms of exercise out there! 
Learn how to properly perform the side plank exercise correctly to increase core muscle strength and tone in this free exercise video on core muscle toning. Expert: Riki Butler. Bio: Riki Butler graduated from the University of Florida with a B.S. in Health Science Education. 
Plank Exercise #2: Side planks. 1  Balance your body on one forearm and the side of your foot. 2  For instance, balance on the left forearm and left side of your leg. 3  Lift your body gently and keep the other hand on your sides. 4  Feel the contraction in your abs and breathe. Plank Exercise #1: Planks. 1  With a yoga mat, start off in the push-up position. 2  Contract your core in, gently get the toes curled and lengthen your spine. 3  Flex the abs muscles and feel a squeeze in your glute muscles. 4  Time yourself, stay in the position for 20-30 seconds and do 3-4 reps daily.