Yael Name Meaning. The meaning of Yael is “Strength of God”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.ronunciation: (ya EL). Form of: Itself (Yael). The meaning of the name “Yael” is: “Strength of God”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Yael is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ya-el. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1853 in baby name popularity for girls with 109 occurrences. It ranked 910 in popular baby names for boys with 235 occurrences. View the Yael Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Yael has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Yael to other names.
4,858. Hebrew pronunciation is yah-ELLE. Emphasis on second syllable. A lot of Hebrew names are accent on the second syllable. I love Yael. I also grew up knowing a couple (Jewish) girls named Jael who still pronounced it yah-ELLE, but Jael seems to get a hard J at least sometimes in other less Hebrew-heavy settings so I would probably use the Y. Even though aesthetically I like a soft J like I do in a number of Spanish girls' names.
[ 1 syll. yae (l), ya-el ] The baby boy name Yael is also used as a girl name, but it is much more common for boys. It is pronounced as Yaa EH L †. The origin of Yael is Hebrew and Old English. Yael is a variant of the name Jael. Yael is also a variant of the name Yale (English). Yael is somewhat popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been growing since the 2010s. Its usage peaked modestly in 2012 with 0.012% of baby boys being given the name Yael.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Yael and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Yael and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Yael is fascinating, learn more about it. Pronunciation: (ya EL). Form of: Itself (Yael). The meaning of the name “Yael” is: “Strength of God”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Please try again later. Audio and video pronunciation of Yael brought to you by Pronounce Names (http://www.PronounceNames.com), a website dedicated to helping people pronounce names correctly. For more information about this name, such as gender, origin, etc., go to http://www.PronounceNames.com/Yael. 1  Education. 
Yael or Jael (Hebrew Ya'el, יָעֵל, meaning Ibex) is a woman mentioned in the Book of Judges in the Bible, as the heroine who killed Sisera to deliver Israel from the troops of King Jabin. 
An Android app is available for download. Name: In the News: Pinky Thakkar (silent h), an engineer from Mumbai, started the Web site www.pronouncenames.com after she moved to San Jose, Calif., and mispronounced the J in San Jose, not giving it the H sound used in Spanish words ... Read More. Website Offers Help On Pronouncing Names