The Constitution imposes three eligibility requirements on the Presidencya€”presidencyâ based on the'officeholder s, age, residency and€”citizenshipa citizenshipâ that must be satisfied at the time of. Taking office by virtue Of The, twelfth amendment the Qualifications For vice president are. the same This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.
Section 2. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several states within seven years from the date of its submission to the states by the Congress. Twenty-second Amendment redirects here. For other uses, see Twenty-second Amendment (disambiguation) . The Twenty-second Amendment (Amendment XXII) of the United States Constitution sets a term limit for election and overall time of service to the office of President of the United States. Congress passed the amendment on March 21, 1947. It was ratified by the requisite 36 of the then-48 states on February 27, 1951
Note: Article III, section 2, of the Constitution was modified by amendment 11. The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State. Note: Article I, section 2, of the Constitution was modified by section 2 of the 14th amendment. Section 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.
The vice-president must be qualified to be President. According to the twelfth amendment of the Constitution, no person constitutionally ineligible to the office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice-President of the United States.. The Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution states: But no person constitutionally ineligible to the office of president shall be eligible to that of vice president. of the United States.. It is left to voters to determine what level of experience or other qualifications they prefer
The Constitution imposes three eligibility requirements on the Presidency—based on the officeholder's age, residency, and citizenship—that must be satisfied at the time of taking office. By virtue of the Twelfth Amendment, the qualifications for Vice President are the same. The Framers established these qualifications in order to increase the chances of electing a person of patriotism, judgment, and civic virtue. First, Presidents must be thirty-five years of age or older. 
The Twelfth Amendment explicitly states that the Vice President must meet the same constitutional requirements as provided for the President. A majority of electoral votes is still required for a person to be elected President or Vice President by the Electoral College. Twelfth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Twelfth Amendment (Amendment XII) to the United States Constitution provides the procedure for electing the President and Vice President. It replaced Article II, Section 1, Clause 3, which provided the original procedure by which the Electoral College functioned.
The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other High crimes and Misdemeanors. 