If you have decided that you will choose hospital bed hire your next task will be to decide on what type of bed you need. There is a lot of option with this and hopefully the following advice will help you narrow your selection down. 1 Decide if you need a special mattress and make sure that this will go with the bed you want to hire. 2  If you are on bed rest then it might mean that you are at risk of developing pressure sores. 3  These ulcers can be nasty and drastically slow down your recovery.
In addition to incorporating all the features that come with the Manual and Semi-Electric bed, the full electric hospital bed rental also has a 110-volt outlet built into the unit. Hospital bed rentals are an economical way for patients to utilize medical beds and their inherent benefits in a home setting. These beds do not require electricity because all positions are controlled with easy-to-use cranks. Most manual beds have a weight capacity of 450 lbs. Semi-Electric hospital beds have motors and a hand pendant for controlling the head and foot of the bed.
Preferred Health Choice. Specializing in online sales and rentals, this company provides semi-electric or full-electric beds to customers depending on the availability in their respective areas. Their semi-electric hospital beds rent for $225 per month, and they provide full-electric hospital beds for $285 per month. Also, should something go wrong, it can be easier and faster for a local company to fix the problem. Spinlife.com. Spin Life offers semi-electric beds that feature electronic foot and head controls, and a manual adjustment for the bed height, for a cost of $150-$185 per week.
Hospital Bed Rentals. Hospital Bed Rentals: Renting a hospital bed is a cost-effective way for individuals to obtain medical beds for the home when the bed is only required for a short time. Hospital beds for rent are often covered by insurance or Medicare. These beds do not require electricity because all positions are controlled with easy-to-use cranks. Most manual beds have a weight capacity of 450 lbs. Semi-Electric hospital beds have motors and a hand pendant for controlling the head and foot of the bed.
The answer to whether you should buy or choose hospital bed hire will very much depend on your circumstances. If you are going to require long term use of this furniture item then you might be better off just buying something that will last many years. 1 Decide if you need a special mattress and make sure that this will go with the bed you want to hire. 2  If you are on bed rest then it might mean that you are at risk of developing pressure sores. 3  These ulcers can be nasty and drastically slow down your recovery.
With a low position of 7 inches off the floor, this exceptionally low height is a benefit of the HMS-Vilgo bed design. With the addition of a choice of side rails, from the lift up three quarter to full length wooden, along with the optional trapeze, these beds can be configures to meet your individual needs. These beds still lift to enable a carer to assist the user, without the need for stopping. This vertical lift also assists the user to exit the bed, and when added to the back support lift, makes getting out of the bed that much easier. A crash mat is available for added security.
If you need to purchase or rent a hospital bed you will undoubtedly face a bewildering array of choices. Here is some advice to help in the selection process of the right hospital bed. First of all, it is very important to follow the recommendations from your care team. This includes Doctors, Nurses, Physical Therapists, and Occupational Therapists. When selecting a bed, be sure to measure all doorways and stairways in the home. Also measure the dimensions of the bed. When you have done the measurements make sure there is at least one clear route to bring the bed into the home.
Although most hospital beds rent for a minimum of two weeks, many companies charge lower prices with monthly rates. The average cost is usually anywhere from $200-$500 per month. However, this is a large database of hundreds of companies that rent hospital beds nationwide, and rates vary widely. Check with these individual companies to get the best rates for the total hospital bed rental cost. Also, should something go wrong, it can be easier and faster for a local company to fix the problem. Spinlife.com. Spin Life offers semi-electric beds that feature electronic foot and head controls, and a manual adjustment for the bed height, for a cost of $150-$185 per week.
They offer full-electric hospital beds at a cost of $165-$215 per week. Their standard, twin-size beds are 36 wide by 80 long, and will support patients weighing up to 450 lbs. Over-bed tables are available to rent at a cost of $30-$35 per week. Also, should something go wrong, it can be easier and faster for a local company to fix the problem. Spinlife.com. Spin Life offers semi-electric beds that feature electronic foot and head controls, and a manual adjustment for the bed height, for a cost of $150-$18
Enhanced domestic appearance with an attractive range of foot and headboards. With a mattress platform range from 11 inches to 32 inches,these beds cover most needs. The high-low homecare bed is used in situations where the occupant is at increased risk of falling, this can be the result of dementia or fitting. These beds still lift to enable a carer to assist the user, without the need for stopping. This vertical lift also assists the user to exit the bed, and when added to the back support lift, makes getting out of the bed that much easier. A crash mat is available for added security.