In the power systems analysis field of electrical engineering, a per-unit system is the expression of system quantities as fractions of a defined base unit quantity. Calculations are simplified because quantities expressed as per-unit do not change when they are referred from one side of a transformer to the other. This can be a pronounced advantage in power system analysis where large numbers of transformers may be encountered. 1 Use of the constant is reduced in three-phase calculations. 2  Per-unit quantities are the same on either side of a transformer, independent of voltage level. 3  By normalizing quantities to a common base, both hand and automatic calculations are simplified.
Conversion of per-unit quantities to volts, ohms, or amperes requires a knowledge of the base that the per-unit quantities were referenced to. The main idea of a per unit system is to absorb large difference in absolute values into base relationships. 1 Use of the constant is reduced in three-phase calculations. 2  Per-unit quantities are the same on either side of a transformer, independent of voltage level. 3  By normalizing quantities to a common base, both hand and automatic calculations are simplified.
Standard cost of material per unit = Standard quantity to produce one unit × Standard price of materials per unit. = 4.00 lbs. × $5.70. = $22.80. In our example, the standard direct materials cost to manufacture one computer case is $22.80. This standard cost is used to prepare a standard cost card of the product. Direct materials quantity standards: The normal or expected quantity of direct materials required to manufacture a unit of finished product is called standard quantity per unit. It also includes allowances for normal wastage and rejection. In the above example, the standard quantity required to manufacture a single computer case is as follows:
1 P is the price per unit paid—assume $5 per unit. 2  D is the total number of units purchased in a year—assume 3,500 units. 3  H is the holding cost per unit per year—assume $3 per unit per annum. 4  Q is the quantity ordered each time an order is placed—initially assume 350 gallons per order. 1 D is the total number of units purchased in a year—assume 3,500 units. 2  H is the holding cost per unit per year—assume $3 per unit per annum. 3  Q is the quantity ordered each time an order is placed—initially assume 350 gallons per order. 4  S is the fixed cost of each order—assume $15
Standard Quantity Per Unit Definition: The amount of materials that should be required to complete a single unit of product, including allowances for normal waste, spoilage, rejects, and similar inefficiencies. 
Definition. The number of individual units of a given SKU number that are required to make up a larger unit. This term may be used in production to list the quantity of a specific item that is required to create a complete set or assembled finished product (quantity per assembly). Or, it may be used on a bill of lading or packing slip to indicate the number of units required to make up a box, carton, package, etc. 
(10,000 budget / 100 units = 100 cost per unit). If I want to produce 100 units of something and I have a $10,000 budget the most that I can spend per unit is $100. Cost Per Unit-This is what you intend to spend on the production cost of each particular unit item. This is important when trying to effectively match your vision with your budget. This will also serve as a ballpark idea for factories.
Where, SQ is the standard quantity allowed. AQ is the actual quantity of direct material used. SP is the standard price per unit of direct material. Standard quantity allowed (SQ) is calculated as the product of standard quantity of direct material per unit and actual units produced. 