Paediatric Course Information. Our paediatric 12 hour first aid training course is conducted as a “ Blended Paediatric Training Course “, this means that you only need to conduct one days training within the classroom, as you would have already completed the first 6 hours of the course online. This 12 hour training programme is an Ofsted requirement for anyone working within a childcare environment, this includes nurseries, mother and toddler groups, general childcare persons and play groups.
An application can be posted to you. Contact Ofsted via email This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. or call them on 0300 123 1231. It is recommended that a photocopy of your First Aid certificate is enclosed with a postal application. Ofsted will send a letter requesting to see evidence of your First Aid qualification with online applications.
The price of this course includes the online element and the practical course (to be booked seaparately with First Aid for Life www.firstaidforlife.org.uk at no additional charge) You will then receive your 12 hour Early Years First Aid certificate. This course is an excellent First Aid Training package for parents and child carers to gain invaluable knowledge at their own time and pace. It also serves as a superb resource for those with English as a Second Language to equip you with the vocabulary and language skills and confidence to pass a practical course.
How will Ofsted inspect first aid certificates? 13. Providers are responsible for demonstrating to Ofsted that they have met all of the registration requirements. As part of an application, applicants must declare that they have met the first aid requirements and provide us with a copy of the certificate. For childminders this must be their own certificate. For other providers this may be the certificate of a member of staff who will be responsible for first aid. 14. 3. If the applicant is registering as a childminder or home childcarer then they must have a first aid certificate. 4. For childcare providers the registered person does not necessarily have to have a first aid certificate.
3 The first aid certificate should be renewed every three years. 4 Resuscitation and other equipment includes baby and junior models, as appropriate. 5 Training covers appropriate contents of a first aid box for babies and children. 6 Training should include recording accidents and incidents. training providers who offer the full 12 hour Paediatric First Aid Training which can be accessed through our website www.leics.gov.uk/eytraining Settings are also advised that you should consider your duty to provide first aid for employees, this includes childminder assistants and practitioners.
for Child Carers and including Adult First Aid. This course is designed to give you the theoretical knowledge needed to accompany the Practical First Aid course to comply with the Ofsted requirements for a 12 hour course and fulfill the Ofsted Early Years Foundation specification for Child Carers. This course is an excellent First Aid Training package for parents and child carers to gain invaluable knowledge at their own time and pace. It also serves as a superb resource for those with English as a Second Language to equip you with the vocabulary and language skills and confidence to pass a practical course.
NORMA LEWIS NANNIES OFSTED REGISTRATION SERVICE. 1) We can book you on to the necessary Training Courses. • First Aid (Full Syllabus, Ofsted Compliant) £85. • Common Core Skills (Ofsted Compliant) £95pp for groups of 5 maximum, £125 for 1:1 training. 2) We will also ensure that you have the other necessary documents. 
Childminders, and any assistant who might be in sole charge of the children for any period of time, must hold a current Paediatric First Aid certificate. When OFSTED visit to check that requirements are being met, they will expect to see the First Aid certificates of the relevant members of staff. For more information on the our paediatric first aid training courses or other training courses offered by Training Solutions North West and how we can help you find the right training courses for your business please email us. Or alternatively, call us on 0800 088 6551 and speak with one of our training Consultants.
By completing both parts you will then receive the 12 hour paediatric first aid certificate, which meets Ofsted requirements for childminder training. This 12 hour training programme is an Ofsted requirement for anyone working within a childcare environment, this includes nurseries, mother and toddler groups, general childcare persons and play groups.