Overview. A complete cholesterol test (also called a lipid panel or lipid profile) measures the amount of “good” and “bad” cholesterol and the level of triglycerides in your blood. Cholesterol is a soft, waxy fat that your body needs to function properly. A blood test is required to test for your cholesterol levels. Often, if you are only testing for HDL and total cholesterol, you may eat beforehand. If you are having a complete lipid profile done, you should not eat or drink anything other than water for nine to 12 hours before the test.
A complete cholesterol test measures four types of lipids (fats) in your blood. 1  Total cholesterol: this is the total amount of cholesterol in your blood. 2  Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol: this is referred to as “bad” cholesterol and too much of it can lead to heart attack, stroke, and atherosclerosis. A blood test is required to test for your cholesterol levels. Often, if you are only testing for HDL and total cholesterol, you may eat beforehand. If you are having a complete lipid profile done, you should not eat or drink anything other than water for nine to 12 hours before the test.
This group of tests measures the amount of cholesterol and triglycerides in your blood. Cholesterol and triglycerides are fats (lipids). This panel measures: Total cholesterol. HDL (good) cholesterol. LDL (bad) cholesterol. Triglycerides. Total cholesterol is a measurement of both good and bad cholesterol. LDL cholesterol moves cholesterol into your arteries. HDL cholesterol moves cholesterol out of your arteries. A high HDL cholesterol number lowers your risk for coronary heart disease
A lipid panel is a blood test that measures fats and fatty substances used by your body. These fats ,called lipids, measure cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein –“good cholesterol “- (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein- “bad cholesterol”- (LDL). 
This blood test checks the levels of cholesterol in your body. A lipid panel will show the levels of your total cholesterol, your LDL (bad) cholesterol, and your HDL (good) cholesterol. In general, the higher your total and LDL cholesterol levels, the higher your risk for coronary heart disease. But some heart attacks happen in people who don't have a high LDL level
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. Your total cholesterol level is Borderline High, but fortunately your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. This could mean you have a high level of high-density lipoprotein, or good HDL cholesterol, which protects against heart disease.
Having high total cholesterol, high bad cholesterol, or low good cholesterol could place you at higher than average risk for heart disease. Knowing about high cholesterol is the first step toward lowering it, which reduces your risk. That's the reason to get a cholesterol test. Cholesterol Tests: the Good, Bad, the Fatty. Cholesterol is a form of fat that's not all bad -- a certain amount is essential for life. Cholesterol helps provide stability to the outer membranes of our bodies' cells. But cholesterol can have harmful effects. LDL -- or bad -- cholesterol can deposit in blood vessel walls
A lipid panel is a blood test that measures lipids-fats and fatty substances used as a source of energy by your body. Lipids include cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) , and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) . This panel measures: 1  Total cholesterol level. Your total cholesterol level is Borderline High, but fortunately your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. This could mean you have a high level of high-density lipoprotein, or good HDL cholesterol, which protects against heart disease.