Introduction. Introduction Farming in the Bahamas This project is about the farming in the Bahamas. Areas we are going to cover are agriculture, subsistence farming in Bahamas, marketing of local crops, and also the result and effects of poor agricultural practices. There are other areas I am going to cover as you will see. Define Agriculture Agriculture is the practice of cultivating the land or raising stock.
Corn, Soybeans, Barley, and Oats. The largest US crop in terms of total production is corn, the majority of which is grown in a region known as the “corn belt”. The second largest crop grown in the US is soybeans. As with corn, soybeans are primarily grown in the Midwestern states. The US barley crop is of most interest to Canadian malt barley growers. US barley is grown over a wide area geographically and the US produces about 60 per cent as much barley as Canada
He is the only farmer of wild hogs in the Bahamas. Agriculture in Abaco By Alice Bain-The Abaconian issue of April 1, 2002. Abaco,s agricultural sector continues to show slow growth. The citrus growers are, by all accounts, having an average year. Jim Gilbert of the Bahama Star Farms reports a good crop and a steady market for fruit in the U.S. Bahama Star grows lemons and oranges but most of their crop is in ruby red grapefruit. In that type of fruit alone last year they shipped 45 million pounds to the U.S. and European markets
In The Bahamas there are two types of farming,they are subsistence farming and commercial farming.In subsistence farming the farmer produces only enough crops or livestock to feed his or her family.In commercial farming the primary purpose is to sell one's products at a market. 
A 1994 Census on Agriculture indicated that there are 1,800 farms in The Bahamas, including: 1  Bahama Palm Groves — leases 1,200 acres of land on an old Abaco sugar estate. 2  R.A. 3  Hewitt & Sons of Ontario, Canada — grows citrus fruits (limes, tangelos, grapefruits, oranges and lemons) on 500 acres. Poultry, winter vegetables, and citrus fruits are the mainstay of the agricultural sector, which is concentrated in The Abacos. Exports consist mainly of grapefruits, limes, okra, papaya, pineapples, and avocado. These foods tend to grow quite well here (particularly the pineapples of Eleuthera which are fabulous!).
Most of the fruit in the Bahamas is grown in the outlying, less densely populated islands and the main crops that are grown in the Bahamas (2006 data) are Avocado, Banana, Coconut, Grapefruit, Persian Lime, Mango, Orange, Pineapple, Scarlet Plum and Sour Orange. Fruit and Veg from a local Bahamas seller-here, also showing some of the lovely veg to be had, including local vine-ripened tomatoes, squash and plantain. Also, another produce that is very popular in the Bahamas-peanuts. Not sure where the peanuts were grown, but they were delicious. The Bahamas.
Agricultural production in the Bahamas focuses on four main areas: crops, poultry, livestock, and dairy. Poultry, winter vegetables, and citrus fruits are the mainstay of the agricultural sector, which is concentrated in The Abacos. Exports consist mainly of grapefruits, limes, okra, papaya, pineapples, and avocado. These foods tend to grow quite well here (particularly the pineapples of Eleuthera which are fabulous!).
Describe local methods of subsistence farming in The Bahamas, that is crop and animal farming in the major islands. Subsistence farming is farming on a small scale, mainly to meet family's needs. This type of farming produces enough food staple items to feed the farmer's family with some remaining for sale. Areas we are going to cover are agriculture, subsistence farming in Bahamas, marketing of local crops, and also the result and effects of poor agricultural practices. There are other areas I am going to cover as you will see. Define Agriculture Agriculture is the practice of cultivating the land or raising stock.
More than 5,000 acres of agricultural land in the Bahamas are used for citrus production. In 1993, about 14 million pounds of poultry meat was produced, valued at $15.3 million; egg production was estimated at 4.15 million dozen eggs, valued at $4.85 million; and agricultural exports were an estimated 18,794 tons. Poultry, winter vegetables, and citrus fruits are the mainstay of the agricultural sector, which is concentrated in The Abacos. Exports consist mainly of grapefruits, limes, okra, papaya, pineapples, and avocado. These foods tend to grow quite well here (particularly the pineapples of Eleuthera which are fabulous!).