Per the Florida Department of Transportation: Construction was completed April 30 on a Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) project to rehabilitate elements of the Main Street Bridge in downtown Jacksonville.. For more information please visit http://nflroads.com. 
So far, the $10.6 million bridge replacement work is on track to be completed by mid-to late November despite some work delays, said Christopher Jacobs of the Michigan Department of Transportation. The 95-year-old Main Street Bridge was closed last October and demolished in February. The bitterly cold winter and unusually rainy spring and summer, plus a few technical issues, caused the delays. Main Street Bridge in Niles on track to re-open by fall-South Bend Tribune: Public Safety.
Old Town Temecula’s Main Street Bridge opened for traffic for the first time during a ceremony on Thursday, May 8, and city officials touted the completion of the year-long project as a grand accomplishment for the city. She spoke of rains in 1993 and 2005, the former of which washed out parts of Old Town. The heavy rains were motivation for city officials to get moving on the facilitation of a new bridge, which Edwards said looked great.
Old Town Main Street Bridge open to traffic for first time after year of construction added by Alex Groves on. View all posts by Alex Groves →. Alex is a reporter from the Temecula area and has reported Riverside County communities for several years, writing everything from full-length features to cop briefs. She spoke of rains in 1993 and 2005, the former of which washed out parts of Old Town. The heavy rains were motivation for city officials to get moving on the facilitation of a new bridge, which Edwards said looked great.
The Main Street Bridge, officially the John T. Alsop Jr. Bridge, is a bridge crossing the St. Johns River in Jacksonville, Florida. It was the second bridge built across the river. It carries four lanes of traffic, and is signed as U.S. Route 1 / US 90 (SR 5 / SR 10). Looking south from downtown along Main Street towards the Main Street Bridge. Looking south through the truss of the Main Street Bridge. View from Hyatt Regency Hotel, with the Acosta Bridge visible in the background. The bridge as viewed from the south bank.
TRAFFIC UPDATE: Main Street bridge open in both directions. By Joe Daraskevich Wed, Nov 12, 2014 @ 6:08 pm | updated Wed, Nov 12, 2014 @ 6:31 pm. UPDATE: The Main Street bridge is now open in both directions. The Main Street bridge is closed in both directions so drivers will need to use another bridge to get in and out of the downtown area. The bridge will be closed for an unknown amount of time, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office. Check back to jacksonville.com for updates as they become available
“What I want is to see the events brought back to Main Street, like the Bring It Cruise-In car show,” Hickman said. The Bring It Cruise-In car show has been moved on Wednesdays to the north end of Riverfront Park. It’s one example of changes event organizers had to make because of the bridge work. Main Street Bridge in Niles on track to re-open by fall-South Bend Tribune: Public Safety.
Old Town Main Street Bridge open to traffic for first time after year of construction. By Alex Groves on May 16, 2014 No Comment. Share on Facebook Follow on Facebook Add to Google+ Connect on Linked in Subscribe by Email Print This Post. She spoke of rains in 1993 and 2005, the former of which washed out parts of Old Town. The heavy rains were motivation for city officials to get moving on the facilitation of a new bridge, which Edwards said looked great.
But all of these Niles residents say the little inconveniences will be worth it when the new Main Street (M-139) Bridge is built and ready for use. “I know the new bridge will be awesome when it’s done. Main Street Bridge in Niles on track to re-open by fall-South Bend Tribune: Public Safety.