Currently there is no option to disable it but I've been complaining a lot over on the official Motorola Moto X forums, and a lot of other people are too. Hopefully they'll listen because the vibration on this thing is godawful. Mine phone use to vibrate while unlocking but today i tried checking the lost phone option & I remotely lock the screen which is & tried more functions related to it like ringing it remotely, after then I again set the security pattern & after that it stopped vibrating.
Originally Posted by maverick96 Is there any way to get the phone to not give that vibrate feedback when unlocking phone from the notification preview screen or when sliding up to a notification to go directly to it? It always vibrates quickly when using those functions. Mine phone use to vibrate while unlocking but today i tried checking the lost phone option & I remotely lock the screen which is & tried more functions related to it like ringing it remotely, after then I again set the security pattern & after that it stopped vibrating.
In other words, you may want to make sure your Moto X is in silent mode. For example during a meeting. Although you can manually disable notifications individually for email, messages, calls and other notifications, you may want to disable them all with one tap. Yes, you can force your Moto X into silence mode with one tap. Just press and hold the power button until you feel a vibration. A box will show up in the center of the screen, behind Power off and AirPlane mode, there are three buttons for ringer options: silent mode, vibrate and ring. 
To add a widget or shortcut to the Home screen, follow these steps: 1  From the Home screen, tap Apps. 2  Tap the Widgets tab. 3  Scroll through the list of available Widgets. 4  Touch and hold a widget to drag it to the location you want it. To delete a widget or shortcut from the Home screen, follow these steps: 1  Locate the Widget or shortcut you want to remove. 2  Touch and hold the item until it vibrates. 3  Drag it to the X Remove icon at the top of the screen.
Turn on / off vibrate for text messages. To enable or disable the vibrate function when you receive text messages go to the standard Messaging App. Then go to Settings – Notification settings – Vibrate. 
Delete widget or shortcut. To delete a widget or shortcut from the Home screen, follow these steps: 1  Locate the Widget or shortcut you want to remove. 2  Touch and hold the item until it vibrates. 3  Drag it to the X Remove icon at the top of the screen.
A video how to, tutorial, guide on setting vibrate mode on the Motorola Moto E. ---------------------------------------- ­----------------. For other very useful how to guides & tutorials visit: Website: http://www.mobilehowto.co.uk. YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/mobilehowtocouk. 
So I turned vibrate on touch off under Settings/Sounds but when I type it still vibrates. 
How to turn off vibrate function whyle typing or just touching yourscreen in general on the new motorola moto x! Unfortunately it still vibrates if you unlock your screen from the active display which. 1  People & Blogs. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Change vibration intensity. If you find the vibration of your phone a little too much, this can easily be reduced. From the homescreen press Menu – Settings – Sound – Vibration intensity. Then slide the bars left or right to change the intensity for various features. You can also turn off Haptic feedback if you really don’t want any feedback