Vitamin B12 is a nutrient that helps keep the body's nerve and blood cells healthy and helps make DNA, the genetic material in all cells. Vitamin B12 also helps prevent a type of anemia called megaloblastic anemia that makes people tired and weak. Two steps are required for the body to absorb vitamin B12 from food.
Yes, you and your doctor should work together to determine if a vitamin/mineral supplement is right for you. If you are already taking dietary supplements, you should inform your doctor. Research shows that many people do not let their doctors know that they are taking a dietary supplement or are considering taking one.
In summary, check with your doctor or a registered dietitian about which, if any, vitamin or mineral supplements might be right for you. And remember that while there are circumstances when it may be appropriate to take vitamin/mineral supplements, they are not a replacement for a healthful diet.
Print. Daily multivitamin/mineral pills are the most popular supplements in the U.S. Ask people why they take them, and most will say it’s to make up for poor eating habits, to help prevent a variety of diseases or just to stay healthy in general.
If you haven't been eating healthy foods for a long time, vitamin and mineral supplements are probably not going to make up for your poor eating habits. And research on the effects of dietary supplements in preventing diseases is still in the early stages.
“You should discuss with your doctor what supplements you’re taking so your care can be integrated and managed,” advises Dr. Craig Hopp, an expert in botanicals research at NIH. Dietary supplements are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as foods, not as drugs.
For some people, taking a dietary supplement may be beneficial. However, if you are in good health, there is limited research to suggest that taking extra vitamins and minerals will significantly boost your health. In fact, some research suggests that certain supplements may be harmful.
The. Office of Dietary Supplements has a series of Vitamin and Mineral Fact Sheets that provide scientifically-based overviews of a number of vitamins and minerals. They can provide a good basis for a discussion with your doctor about whether or not you should take a vitamin/mineral supplement.
Vitamin and mineral supplements can be costly, but taking them often makes us feel like we are doing the right thing for our health. Unfortunately, a number of research studies--including the extensive Iowa Women's Healthy Study--indicate that supplements are not always beneficial.
When you reach for that bottle of vitamin C or fish oil pills, you might wonder how well they’ll work and if they’re safe. The first thing to ask yourself is whether you need them in the first place. More than half of all Americans take one or more dietary supplements daily or on occasion.