There are also a number of symbols in the Buddhist tradition that has no resemblance to the image of Siddhartha Gautama Buddha. Some of them include: the 8-spoked wheel; the parasol; the lotus flower; the white conch shell; the endless or eternal knot; the victory banner, twin golden fishes and the treasure vase. 
(It is also known as the “ śaṅkha ”, the Sanskrit word for the same shell). It is heavily decorated with ornate patterns in metals such as silver, bronze or tin and is topped with a bright bead, which is said to represent good energy.) is a conch shell of ritual and religious importance in both Hinduism and Buddhism. The shankha is one of the eight auspicious symbols of Buddhism, the Ashtamangala, and represents the pervasive sound of Buddhism. A powder made from the shell material is used in ayurveda, primarily as a cure for stomach ailments and for increasing beauty and strength
It is the symbol of his enlightenment. The fifth of the Buddhist symbols is the conch shell. The gift of the conch shell to the new Buddha represents a sign of his ability to keep lower energy forces at bay. The conch is believed to give the Buddha the ability to scare away evil spirits, banish dark energies, and even stop natural disasters from occurring. The eight auspicious symbols are a parasol, two fish, the great treasure fish, a lotus flower, a conch shell, an endless knot, a banner representing victory, and the wheel of dharma. The concept of these eight symbols originated as gifts that were presented during the coronation of kings in India.
Vajrayana Buddhism absorbed the conch as a symbol which fearlessly proclaimed the truth of the dharma. Among the eight symbols, it stands for the fame of the Buddha's teaching, which spreads in all directions like the sound of the conch trumpet. Buddhism has evolved over the centuries a complex, yet discernable scheme of symbolism which has found adequate expression in Buddhist art. Undoubtedly, the most popular of such symbols is the group of eight, known in Sanskrit as 'Ashtamangala,' ashta meaning eight and mangala meaning auspicious.
Vajrayana Buddhism absorbed the conch as a symbol which fearlessly proclaimed the truth of the dharma. Among the eight symbols, it stands for the fame of the Buddha's teaching, which spreads in all directions like the sound of the conch trumpet. 
The fifth symbol is the conch shell or sankha. The conch shell is a much-respected object in the Indian culture. It is said to ward off evil, and is believed to be a symbol of power and authority. The Buddhists make use of conch shell to announce important religious assemblies. If one looks closely, one can see the ‘Eight Auspicious Symbols’ printed on Tibetan prayer flags and on Buddhist monasteries. This symbol encompasses another symbol that holds a lot of importance in the Tibetan form of Buddhism. It is known as the ‘Wheel of Life’.
The conch shell has other symbolic meanings also. Buddhist stories tell of mythical heroes carrying a large white conch shell into battle as a symbol of their power and divinity. The sixth of the Buddhist symbols is the endless knot. The endless knot looks very similar to Celtic knotwork, but this knotwork tradition also exists within the Buddhist cultures. The eight auspicious symbols are a parasol, two fish, the great treasure fish, a lotus flower, a conch shell, an endless knot, a banner representing victory, and the wheel of dharma. The concept of these eight symbols originated as gifts that were presented during the coronation of kings in India.
The Eight Auspicious Symbols, The Ashmatangala. These eight auspicious symbols of Buddhism are: 1.) The Conch Shell-The conch shell represents the thoughts of Buddha. The conch shell also symbolizes a way for the teachings of Buddhism to be spread throughout the world. 2.) The Lotus Flower-The lotus symbol in Buddhism represents the true nature of humans, that can rise above the darkness and become enlightened. 