Food Articles and Tips. MSG, or monosodium glutamate, is a sodium salt of glutamic acid. As a food additive, it’s used to enhance flavor. It’s found in many seasonings, sauces, salad dressings and prepared foods; it’s also often used in fast food preparation. 
Nutrition. Healthy Eating. MSG (monosodium glutamate) is a form of the naturally occurring amino acid glutamate, and is used as a food additive to intensify the taste of food. This flavor enhancer, originally extracted from seaweeds and used in Asian cuisines, has now become a common find in many food products. Even food labels that prominently read no added MSG  do not always mean that the product is MSG-free. In fact, both the FDA and the USDA consider labels such as no added MSG  or no MSG added misleading since many food products with these labels contain free glutamate.
MSG is one of the most misunderstood food additives out there. Best known as a component of Chinese-American food, it’s actually a lot more prevalent than you think, and there are a bunch of food products it appears in that you most likely eat without even realizing it. When added to food, MSG provides an umami-rich flavor boost that regular table salt doesn’t, even though MSG contains 60 percent less sodium than table salt, and many people cook with it regularly (it’s sold under the brand name Accent).
MSG, or Monosodium Glutamate is a salt of the amino acid-Glutamic Acid (glutamate). A salt is the chemical name for a molecule held together by opposite charges. Basically one (mono) sodium atom is stuck to the amino acid glutamate. 
T he following foods contain MSG or its business end-the free amino acid glutamate-in amounts large enough to cause reactions in those sensitive to it.: 1  Taste No 5 Umami Paste MSG disguised as a substitute for MSG. 2  A travesty of misleading labeling and marketing. 
Checking labels and paying close attention to ingredients is a way of life if you have a sensitivity to food ingredients or additives. Monosodium glutamate reportedly causes a cluster of symptoms in sensitive individuals, although it has not been proven that MSG is the cause. Some people report experiencing headache, numbness, chest pain and sweating after eating foods containing MSG. 
MSG has been used as a food additive for decades. Over the years, the FDA has received many anecdotal reports of adverse reactions to foods containing MSG. These reactions — known as MSG symptom complex — include: 1  Headache. 2  Flushing. 3  Sweating. 4  Facial pressure or tightness. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has classified MSG as a food ingredient that's generally recognized as safe, but its use remains controversial. For this reason, when MSG is added to food, the FDA requires that it be listed on the label.
1. Avoid non-food products that may contain MSG. Some cosmetics, soaps, shampoos, and hair conditioners may contain MSG if the ingredients contain the words hydrolyzed, protein, or amino acids.. 1  Some medications, vitamins and dietary supplements have MSG in the binders and fillers. Avoid certain foods when eating out. If you want to eat out but avoid MSG, known which foods to avoid. Common foods that contain MSG include vegetable broths, breads, dressings, soy products, sweeteners, and flavors.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG, also known as sodium glutamate) is the sodium salt of glutamic acid, one of the most abundant naturally occurring non-essential amino acids. Glutamate is found in tomatoes, Parmesan cheese, potatoes, mushrooms, and other vegetables and fruits. MSG is used in the food industry as a flavor enhancer with an umami taste that intensifies the meaty, savory flavor of food, as naturally occurring glutamate does in foods such as stews and meat soups.
Photo © Danilo Alfaro. Monosodium glutamate, or MSG, is a flavor-enhancing food additive used in Asian cooking and also commonly found in fast foods as well as commercially packaged food products such as chips, crackers, soups and soup mixes, lunch meats, salad dressings and many others. 