Time of Implantation. A blood or urine test for pregnancy is meant to detect if hCG, the pregnancy hormone, is present in either blood or urine. After you ovulate, your egg is fertilized by a sperm after unprotected sex and it then travels through your fallopian tube to the uterus. This produces the hCG hormone which can now be detected in the blood and later in the urine. Implantation takes place when a fertilized egg is embedded into the inner wall of the uterus. This occurs about one week after your ovulation, although this may range from 6 to 12 days. It will take another 3 to 4 days (approximately 9 to 16 days post-ovulation) for your blood test to become positive. After 2 to 3 days an early urine test for pregnancy or a Home Pregnancy Test (HPT) may turn positive
NOT 6 DAYS after implantation, 5-6 days before a PERIOD... It is generally advised to take a pregnancy test about 14 days after sex..YOU CANNOT know when implantation takes place, but you can know when the last time you had sex was.
Thus, 4-5 days after implantation (i.e. approximately before the due time of the expected period), the HCG content in the blood sample is about 25mIU/ml. It can be detected by an immunoassay (analysis of a blood serum, taken from a vein in special laboratories). Be careful when choosing a test in a drugstore! If the package has a note, saying “sensitivity 20 mIU/ml”, then the test is suitable for early detection of pregnancy (immediately after the delay). Tests, with a note “sensitivity 40 mIU/ml” can be used no sooner than on the 7-9 day after implantation bleeding.
A blood pregnancy test will show a positive result about 3-4 days after implantation and a urine test will show a positive result about 4-5 days after implantation. Just remember that the pregnancy hormone hCG will double every other day-so if you get a negative result don't be afraid to retest in a few days. 
If you are pregnant, then the blood pregnancy test is usually positive within 3-4 days after implantation or about 10-11 days after fertilization and ovulation. The urine pregnancy test is positive several days after the blood test becomes positive. Detection of hCG depends on timing of implantation so hCG can normally be detected in the blood between 9 and 16 days after ovulation (HPT: 12-19 days after ovulation).
The timing of a positive pregnancy test depends on implantation. If you are pregnant, a urine pregnancy test is not expected to be positive until 3-4 days after implantation (at the very earliest), which is about 10 days after ovulation/fertilization and 4 days before the next period. About 51% of pregnant women have a positive pregnancy test 2 days before their next expected period. It takes at least 2-3 days after implantation for there to be enough HCG in your system to be detected by the most sensitive test available, First Response Early Result. If you do test and it's negative, don't fret, just wait a couple more days and test again with the First Response Early Result. Good luck!
Pregnancy test will be most accurate no sooner than 6-8 days after implantation bleeding. But the final confirmation of pregnancy is only up to the doctor, who will need to make an ultrasound examination. Implantation is one of the first critical moments in fetal development. Be careful when choosing a test in a drugstore! If the package has a note, saying “sensitivity 20 mIU/ml”, then the test is suitable for early detection of pregnancy (immediately after the delay). Tests, with a note “sensitivity 40 mIU/ml” can be used no sooner than on the 7-9 day
A pregnancy test depends on the day of implantation, and the urine pregnancy test is usually positive 4-5 days after implantation. However, it's the day of ovulation that's important too, as implantation can only happen if ovulation took place and the egg was fertilized. Detection of hCG depends on timing of implantation so hCG can normally be detected in the blood between 9 and 16 days after ovulation (HPT: 12-19 days after ovulation).