hematopoiesis. the formation and development of blood cells, usually taking place in the bone marrow. cyclic hematopoiesis of collies. see canine cyclic hematopoiesis. extramedullary hematopoiesis. the formation of and development of blood cells outside the bone marrow, as in the spleen, liver and lymph nodes. fetal hematopoiesis. in embryogenesis migration of stem cells from the yolk sac blood islands sets up hematopoiesis in thymus, lymph nodes, liver and spleen. When fetal bone develops a marrow cavity hematopoiesis is similarly established.
Noun. 1. hematopoiesis-the formation of blood cells in the living body (especially in the bone marrow). haematogenesis, haematopoiesis, haemogenesis, haemopoiesis, hematogenesis, hemogenesis, hemopoiesis, sanguification. biological process, organic process-a process occurring in living organisms.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Hemopoiesis, or hematopoiesis, is the process by which new blood cells are formed. Bone marrow, the tissue inside bones, is one of the most active organs in the body, and is the site where red blood cells, the majority of white blood cells, and platelets are produced.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Melissa Gatewood. Confidence votes 13. Is Production and development of blood cells, normally in the bone marrow.
Diagram showing the development of different blood cells from haematopoietic stem cell to mature cells. Haematopoiesis (from Greek αἷμα, blood and ποιεῖν to make; also hematopoiesis in American English; sometimes also haemopoiesis or hemopoiesis) is the formation of blood cellular components.
hematopoiesis. (physiology). The process by which the cellular elements of the blood are formed. 
Medical Definition of HEMATOPOIESIS. : the formation of blood or of blood cells in the living body—called also hemopoiesis.
hematopoiesis. the formation and development of blood cells, usually taking place in the bone marrow. cyclic hematopoiesis of collies. see canine cyclic hematopoiesis. hematopoiesis. the formation and development of blood cells. In the embryo and fetus it takes place in a variety of sites including the liver, spleen, thymus, lymph nodes, and bone marrow; from birth throughout the rest of life it is mainly in the bone marrow with a small amount occurring in lymph nodes.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Hematopoiesis is a biological process the body uses to create new blood cells to replace those that are aging or that have died off. It is continually in progress in all healthy humans and most animals.