Duty of Care Law & Legal Definition. Duty of care is the duty to take care to refrain from causing another person injury or loss. In tort law, a duty of care is a legal obligation imposed on an individual requiring that they adhere to a standard of reasonable care while performing any acts that could foreseeably harm others. It is the first element that must be established to proceed with an action in negligence. 
Definition. The duty of care stands for the principle that directors and officers of a corporation in making all decisions in their capacities as corporate fiduciaries, must act in the same manner as a reasonably prudent person in their position would. 
DEFINITION of 'Duty Of Care'. One of the two primary fiduciary duties required to be discharged by directors of a company. The duty of care requires directors to make business decisions after taking all available information into account, and then act in a judicious manner that promotes the company's best interests. Directors are required to exercise the utmost care in making business decisions in order to fulfill their fiduciary duty.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In tort law, a duty of care is a legal obligation which is imposed on an individual requiring adherence to a standard of reasonable care while performing any acts that could foreseeably harm others. The duty of care may be imposed by operation of law between individuals with no current direct relationship (familial or contractual or otherwise), but eventually become related in some manner, as defined by common law (meaning case law).
Legal background. “Duty of care” is an element of the tort of negligence. In broad terms, the law of negligence provides that if a person suffers injury as the result of the negligence of another, they should be compensated for the loss and damage which arises from the negligent act or omission. 
In turn, breaching a duty may subject an individual to liability. The duty of care may be imposed by operation of law between individuals with no current direct relationship (familial or contractual or otherwise), but eventually become related in some manner, as defined by common law (meaning case law).
Employers have a duty of care to their employees, which means that they should take all steps which are reasonably possible to ensure their health, safety and wellbeing. Demonstrating concern for the physical and mental health of your workers shouldn't just be seen as a legal duty-there's a clear business case, too. 
QCF Unit 4 – 1.1 Define the term ‘duty of care’. Posted on April 1, 2011 by admin. Assesment Criteria: 1.1 Define the term ‘duty of care’. Answer: Health and social care organisations have what is called a duty of care towards the people they look after. That means that they must do everything they can to keep the people in their care safe from harm
Duty of care may be considered a formalisation of the social contract, the implicit responsibilities held by individuals towards others within society. It is not a requirement that a duty of care be defined by law, though it will often develop through the jurisprudence of common law. The duty of care may be imposed by operation of law between individuals with no current direct relationship (familial or contractual or otherwise), but eventually become related in some manner, as defined by common law (meaning case law).
Duty of Care – duty to disclose the risks and benefits of the proposed treatment, and any material or special risks associated with the treatment to be determined in relation to the circumstances of each case.. The fiduciary duties of directors of a corporation include the duty of care and the duty of loyalty. The duty of care refers to the responsibility of a corporate fiduciary to exercise, in the performance of his or her tasks, the care that a reasonably prudent person would use under similar circumstances. 