Louisiana Creole people are those who are descended from the colonial settlers of Louisiana, especially those of colonial French or Spanish descent. The term creole was originally used by French settlers to distinguish those born in Louisiana from those born in the mother country or elsewhere. As in many other colonial societies around the world, creole was a term used to mean those who were native-born. Louisiana Creole (Kreyol Kréyol La) lwizyan lwizyàn Is A french creole language spoken By The louisiana creole people And sometimes cajuns and whites of the State. Of louisiana the language consists of Elements, Of, French, spanish African And native. american roots
Creole /cre-ole/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French and Portuguese derivation, and Creole means of American birth but European descent. Creole is a variant transcription of Creola (French, Portuguese). Crell is a conventional surname. (2000 U.S. Census). The only popular variation form of Creole (outside Top 1000) appearing in the Top 1000 is Creola. Adoption of this girl name reached its peak during 1910-1919 (usage of 0.003%) and has become less since. Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of the girl name Creole and associated names.
Top Definition. creole. a person or persons of varied afro-anglo-french-spanish ancestry residing in louisiana. the art, food, language, music, and history of creole people. french/spanish language and culture unique to louisiana. from the spanish criollo, meaning 'a local'. creole music rocks. 2. a person born in Louisiana but of usually French ancestry. 3. (sometimes lowercase) a person of mixed black and European, esp. French or Spanish, ancestry who speaks a creolized form of French or Spanish. 4. (usually lowercase) a creolized language; a pidgin that has become the native language of a speech community.
7. Creole. Louisiana Creole refers to native born people of various racial descent who are descended from the Colonial French and/or Spanish settlers of Colonial French Louisiana, before it became part of the United States in 1803 with the Louisiana Purchase with claim to the Creole culture and Creole cuisine. 2. a person born in Louisiana but of usually French ancestry. 3. (sometimes lowercase) a person of mixed black and European, esp. French or Spanish, ancestry who speaks a creolized form of French or Spanish. 4. (usually lowercase) a creolized language; a pidgin that has become the native language of a speech community.
Creola /cre-o-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French and Portuguese origin, and the meaning of Creola is of American birth but European descent. Used to describe natives of the West Indies and Louisiana who were the offspring of European-born colonists. Kreatif forms: Creoca, Creolan, Creolia. 
Creole language, or creolized language can also be a generic term referring to any resulting language where the language of a subordinate group takes on or acquires the language of a dominant group. There are changes in phonology, grammar and vocabulary. A creolized language becomes the mother tongue of its speakers. 
[ 2 syll. creo-le, cr-e- ole ] The baby girl name Creole is pronounced as KR IY owL †. Creole is derived from French origins. Creole is a form of the English name Creola. Creole is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
1. Creole-a person of European descent born in the West Indies or Latin America. American-a native or inhabitant of a North American or Central American or South American country. 2. (Peoples) a native-born person of mixed European and African ancestry who speaks a French or Spanish creole. 3. (Peoples) (in Louisiana and other Gulf States of the US) a native-born person of French ancestry. 4. (Languages) the creolized French spoken in Louisiana, esp in New Orleans. adj. 5.
The English word creole derives from the French creole, créole which in turn came From portuguese, crioulo which in turn came From spanish. Criollo this, word a derivative of the verb (criar to), raise was coined in the 15th, century in the trading and military outposts established By spain And portugal In West. africa The English word creole derives from the French creole, créole which in turn came From portuguese, crioulo which in turn came From spanish. criollo
Creole is a rare given name for females. Creole is a rare last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). The only popular variation form of Creole (outside Top 1000) appearing in the Top 1000 is Creola. Adoption of this girl name reached its peak during 1910-1919 (usage of 0.003%) and has become less since. Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of the girl name Creole and associated names.