TRUE AND FALSE: -Franklin Delano Roosevelt was related to former president Theodore Roosevelt. -The Agricultural Adjustment Administration paid cotton farmers to plow under (destroy) much of their crop. -The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration unconstitutional. 
For the act by the same name in 1938, see Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938. The Agricultural Adjustment Act (AAA) was a United States federal law of the New Deal era which reduced agricultural production by paying farmers subsidies not to plant on part of their land and to kill off excess livestock. Its purpose was to reduce crop surplus and therefore effectively raise the value of crops. As such, the federal government could not force states to adopt the Agricultural Adjustment Act due to lack of jurisdiction. However, the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 remedied these technical issues and the farm program continued.
On January 6, 1936, the Supreme Court decided in United States v. Butler that the act was unconstitutional for levying this tax on the processors only to have it paid back to the farmers. Regulation of agriculture was deemed a state power. As such, the federal government could not force states to adopt the Agricultural Adjustment Act due to lack of jurisdiction. However, the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 remedied these technical issues and the farm program continued.
However, the NIRA was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in 1935 and not replaced. The legislation was enacted in June 1933 during the Great Depression in the United States as part of President Franklin D. Roosevelt 's New Deal legislative program. The NIRA was set to expire in June 1935, but in a major constitutional ruling the U.S. Supreme Court held Title I of the Act unconstitutional on May 27, 1935, in Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U.S. 495 (1935).
Agricultural Adjustment Act ruled unconstitutional. In Butler v. United States, the Supreme Court declared the Agricultural Adjustment Act (passed in 1933 to reduce overproduction by paying farmers to be inactive) unconstitutional. 
The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, which provided for the Agricultural Adjustment Administration to adjust production of dairy products, wheat, corn, cotton, hogs, and rice, was declared unconstitutional by the United States Supreme Court in January 1936. 
Though the Agricultural Adjustment Act was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in 1936, the AAA did help farming economy during its short tenure by limiting agricultural production, reducing surpluses, and increasing prices. The Agricultural Adjustment Administration was a New Deal program established in 1933 by the Agricultural Adjustment Act.
Agricultural Adjustment Act. World War I severely disrupted agriculture in Europe. That was an advantage to farmers in the United States, who increased production dramatically and were therefore able to export surplus food to European countries. But by the 1920s, European agriculture had recovered and American farmers found it more difficult to find export markets for their products.
The AAA Act of 1938 was signed into law by President Franklin Roosevelt as a replacement for the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 which was ruled unconstitutional by the United States Supreme Court in U.S. v. Butler. Although the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 was heralded as a boon to the economy and many studies showed that it had a beneficial impact on farming, and the economy in general, it was ruled unconstitutional in the case of United States
AAA, Agricultural Adjustment Act. Within days of his inauguration in 1933, President Roosevelt called Congress into special session and introduced a record 15 major pieces of legislation. One of the first to be introduced and enacted was the AAA, the Agricultural Adjustment Act. For the first time, Congress declared that is was the policy of Congress to balance supply and demand for farm commodities so that prices would support a decent purchasing power for farmers. This concept, outlined in the AAA, was known as  parity ..