— Perhaps nobody expected the collaboration between Michael Showalter and Sally Field less than Sally Field. The Oscar-winning actress had never crossed creative paths with the director, who has built a career on sketch comedy and screenplays with an off-kilter approach to humor. Doubtfire,” but she steps into new territory here, building something of an outsider who becomes more sympathetic with the embarrassments she endures. In an interview at the Driskill Hotel here ahead of the film’s world premiere on Saturday, Ms. Field spoke about her role and her career.
A career over 50 years is a whole lot of things. It’s a lot of ups and a lot of downs and a lot of sideways. And you just keep going. And looking for a piece that’s worth putting yourself into, like this was for me. Doubtfire,” but she steps into new territory here, building something of an outsider who becomes more sympathetic with the embarrassments she endures. In an interview at the Driskill Hotel here ahead of the film’s world premiere on Saturday, Ms. Field spoke about her role and her career.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 5.5/10 X. An inner-city high school teacher discovers she is pregnant at the same time as one of her most promising students and the two develop an unlikely friendship while struggling to navigate their unexpected pregnancies. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.6/10 X. After workaholic Kevin has a drunken one night stand with the beautiful train-wreck Madeline, he's horrified to discover that she's actually his boss' jilted ex-mistress.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.3/10 X. Alex, Emily, and their son, RJ, are new to Los Angeles. A chance meeting at the park introduces them to the mysterious Kurt, Charlotte, and Max. A family playdate becomes increasingly interesting as the night goes on. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.6/10 X. After workaholic Kevin has a drunken one night stand with the beautiful train-wreck Madeline, he's horrified to discover that she's actually his boss' jilted ex-mistress.
An earlier version of this post referred incompletely to the script of Hello, My Name Is Doris.. It was written by Michael Showalter and Laura Terruso, not solely by Mr. Showalter. Doubtfire,” but she steps into new territory here, building something of an outsider who becomes more sympathetic with the embarrassments she endures. In an interview at the Driskill Hotel here ahead of the film’s world premiere on Saturday, Ms. Field spoke about her role and her career.
I’m very much like Doris in that. All of that served me very well. Though the fact that the man that she has a crush on is 30 years younger than she is I think is more the issue than the fact that he’s into electronic music and she’s not. Doubtfire,” but she steps into new territory here, building something of an outsider who becomes more sympathetic with the embarrassments she endures. In an interview at the Driskill Hotel here ahead of the film’s world premiere on Saturday, Ms. Field spoke about her role and her career.
Laura Terruso. Director | Producer | Cinematographer. While completing her MFA from NYU's graduate film program, Laura produced two micro-budget feature films which screened at the Sundance Film Festival titled Codependent Lesbian Space Alien Seeks Same and The Foxy Merkins, both directed by Madeleine Olnek. Celebrate IMDb's 25th Anniversary with Photos We Love IMDb turns a classy 25 on October 17! To celebrate, we put together a gallery of some of our favorite movie, TV, and event photos from the last 25 years. See the Photos We Love