The XLStart by default is on your PC. If you don't show any path in the At Startup box (or in Alternate Startup Folder in prior versions), then somehow you've placed files in your XLStart folder that don't belong there. Do a search on your hard drive, and find XLStart, and move the files back out of there. The XLStart folder is also where Adobe Acrobat likes to place itself so that you have Print to PDF buttons on your Excel toolbar. Back to top... OfficeArtilces.com debuted on May 26, 2005. First, there are really two Excel Startup folders. One is created by default when you install the application. Its name is XLStart. The other is created if you go to Tools Options, General tab, and enter a location in the At startup... box, shown empty, below. Tip: Here's where the trouble starts.
0 Comments. When you install Microsoft Excel, a special fold XLStart will be created. XLStart folder is a place for Excel to store the workbook template, Book.xltx. if we store a workbook in XLStart folder, Excel will open it when we launch Excel automatically at every time. However, users seldom use the XLStart folder. 
The default file location differs from a startup folder. It can set the folder location that you want Excel to point to when you open or save a file by using the File menu. Note In Excel 2007, to see the default file location, follow these steps: 1  To load Excel workbooks at startup. To use additional templates, you must save them in the following folder: To use the templates in Excel 2003, follow these steps: To use the templates in Excel 2007, follow these steps: Add-ins (.xla files) that you put in a startup folder do not typically appear when you start Excel. The add-ins are loaded in memory.
If there are files in the XLStart folder or in the alternative startup folder that you do not want to open when Excel starts, and you do not want to move the files to a different folder, you can use command-line switches to prevent the files from opening. 
In the File name box, do one of the following: To create the default workbook template, type Book. To create the default worksheet template, type Sheet. To create a custom workbook or worksheet template, type the name that you want to use. Click Save. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Close. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Excel Options. Click Trust Center, and then under Microsoft Office Excel Trust Center, click Trust Center Settings. Click Trusted Locations, and then verify the path to the XLStart folder in the list of trusted locations.
About the XLStart Folder in Microsoft Excel. First, there are really two Excel Startup folders. One is created by default when you install the application. Its name is XLStart. The other is created if you go to Tools Options, General tab, and enter a location in the At startup... box, shown empty, below. Tip: Here's where the trouble starts.
C:\Documents and Settings\user name\Application Data\Microsoft\Excel\XLStart. Tip You can locate the exact path to the XLStart folder in the Trust Center. How to locate the XLStart folder. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Excel Options. Click Trust Center, and then under Microsoft Office Excel Trust Center, click Trust Center Settings. Click Trusted Locations, and then verify the path to the XLStart folder in the list of trusted locations.
The XLStart folder is a special folder created when you install Excel. That's where Excel stores the workbook template, Book.xltx. In addition, if you store a workbook in this folder, Excel will open it automatically every time you launch Excel. When you need to update the template template or save a workbook to this folder, you probably won't remember the entire path. The quickest way to find its location is to use the Immediate window in the Visual Basic Editor (VBE), as follows: 1  Press [Alt]+[F11] to launch the VBE.
1 \Application Data\Microsoft\Excel\XLSTART. 2  In this path, 3  is your logon user name. 4  The folder that is specified in the At startup, open all files in box. 5  Note. 6  To find the At startup, open all files in box in Excel 2003, click Options on the Tools menu, and then click the General tab. To use additional templates, you must save them in the following folder: To use the templates in Excel 2003, follow these steps: To use the templates in Excel 2007, follow these steps: Add-ins (.xla files) that you put in a startup folder do not typically appear when you start Excel. The add-ins are loaded in memory.
1 is your logon user name. 2  The folder that is specified in the At startup, open all files in box. 3  Note. 4  To find the At startup, open all files in box in Excel 2003, click Options on the Tools menu, and then click the General tab. To use additional templates, you must save them in the following folder: To use the templates in Excel 2003, follow these steps: To use the templates in Excel 2007, follow these steps: Add-ins (.xla files) that you put in a startup folder do not typically appear when you start Excel. The add-ins are loaded in memory.