3 Comments. Flutter kicks are well documented to strengthen the lower abs very effectively. Since you are creating a dynamic movement in your lower ab region more of the muscle fibers are recruited to complete the movement.
The most important muscle for flutter kick is the quadricep, which is used to force water down and back. However, all leg muscles are involved in the motion, including the hamstrings, gluteus maximus, calves and even the muscles in your foot -- the abductor hallucis, abductor digiti minimi and flexor digitorum brevis.
The flutter kick uses alternating leg movements to propel a swimmer through the water. The flutter kick is the kick of choice for swimmers performing the backstroke, which is also called the back crawl, and the freestyle, which is also called the front crawl.
The flutter kick is the most basic kicking technique used while swimming backstroke and freestyle. To flutter kick, swimmers alternate the movement of both legs rapidly. An efficient flutter kick helps swimmers go faster by generating forward thrust and maintaining proper body positioning in the water.
When you turn yourself to a vertical position in the water and do the flutter kick while treading water, you change the point of emphasis when it comes to your muscles. While you'll still use the same major muscle groups, it's the glutes -- not the quads -- that feel the burn the most.
The flutter kick uses all the major muscle groups in the legs. These include your gluteus maximus, quadriceps and hamstrings. Whether on your front or your back, you'll also use your calves as well as three muscles in your feet: the abductor hallucis, abductor digiti minimi and flexor digitorum brevis.
See if Flutter Kicks made the list. Flutter Kicks are one of the simplest leg exercises and can be performed anytime, anywhere. This body weight exercise will bring the burn to your hamstring muscles and glutes (gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, and gluteus minimus).
Doing the Flutter Kick. Use a kickboard as you learn to do the flutter kick. Isolating your legs in this way helps you to focus on the movement instead of worrying about what the upper body is doing. Hold on to the top of the kickboard with your hands, resting your arms on the board's flat side.