Epidermis is the top layer of skin and the one you can actually see. The dermis is the layer that lies underneath the epidermis, and it is composed entirely of living cells. T … he most important function of dermis is respiration. The various glands such as the oil and sweat glands originate in the lower dermis. From here, they rise to the surface of the skin to eliminate waste matter.
The epidermis is composed of the outermost layers of cells in the skin Epidermis is the outer layer of cells covering an organism, in  particular. Your epidermis is the outer layer of your skin. Anything that is not your skin.    Epidermis-- The uppermost layer of skin cells.
dermis. the corium; the principal layer of skin between the epidermis and the subcutaneous tissue; made up mostly of a network of collagen fibers but also containing nerves, blood vessels, cells and other fibers. It is divided into papillary and reticular parts, and when tanned forms leather.
The dermis supplies the avascular epidermis with nutrients by means of its vascular network. It contains sense organs for touch, pressure, pain and temperature (Meissner s corpuscles, Pacinian corpuscles, free nerve endings), as well as blood vessels, nerve fibres, sebaceous and sweat glands and hair follicles.
The Epidermis. The epidermis is the outermost layer of the skin, and protects the body from the environment. The thickness of the epidermis varies in different types of skin; it is only .05 mm thick on the eyelids, and is 1.5 mm thick on the palms and the soles of the feet.
The epidermis is the outermost layer of the skin, composed  of terminally differentiated stratified squamous epithelium, acting  as the body's major barrier against an inhos … pitable environment. It  is the thinnest on the eyelids at .05 mm and the thickest on the  palms and soles at 1.5 mm.
A layer of skin composed of a thin layer lying under the epidermis, the stratum papillare, and the stratum reticulare; it contains blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves and nerve endings, glands, and, except for glabrous skin, hair follicles.
The dermis supplies the avascular epidermis with nutrients by means of its vascular network. It contains sense organs for touch, pressure, pain and temperature (Meissner s corpuscles, Pacinian corpuscles, free nerve endings), as well as blood vessels, nerve fibres, sebaceous and sweat glands and hair follicles.
The Papillary dermis and the Recticular dermis.   epidermis   endodermis The dermis does not have layers. However, the dermis is one of three major layers of skin. In t … he dermis layer there are hair follicles, sweat glands, capillaries, nerves as well as nerve receptors.