Bayport Cruise Terminal, Pasadena, Texas. The Bayport cruise terminal serves as one of two ports of embarkation and debarkation for Houston, TX. The other is Galveston Cruise Terminal. Kids Free. Use this simple form to find hotels, motels, and other lodging near the Port of Houston Cruise Terminal in Pasadena. The Bayport cruise terminal serves as one of two ports of embarkation and debarkation for Houston, TX.
Transportation Options to the Houston (Bayport) Cruise Terminal. For most people cruising from Houston, getting to the port is simple. They simply hop in the car and drive over. But for out-of-town passengers, Houston’s car-centric culture can be a major roadblock. The fare from Houston Hobby to the Bayport Cruise Terminal is roughly $35-45 one-way ($70-90 round-trip). The fare from Houston Intercontinental to the Bayport cruise Terminal is roughly $90-110 one-way ($180-220 round-trip). When booking your flight, keep in mind that a round-trip taxi ride from Bush Intercontinental can be as much as $130 more than from Hobby
Cranes line the Bayport terminal at the Port of Houston. Less than three years after Port of Houston commissioners authorized millions of dollars in incentives to lure a pair of cruise lines to its long-empty Bayport Cruise Terminal, the two operators have decided to move on and leave the loading docks deserted again. 
The facilities at Bayport include a cruise ship terminal, built at a cost of US$81 million. The terminal briefly saw use for cruises following Hurricane Ike when ships like Carnival Cruise Lines Ecstasy and Conquest were re-routed from the damaged Port of Galveston to Bayport for nearly two months.
EDT) – Houston will no longer serve as a cruise port in 2016, as both Princess and Norwegian Cruise Lines are moving the ships that homeport there. The Port of Houston had served as the base for Caribbean Princess and Norwegian Jade. While the ships will continue to cruise to the Caribbean from Bayport Cruise Terminal through this fall and early next year, the sailings will end in April 2016. 
866-336-1882. The lovely Bayport Cruise Terminal in Houston, Texas, presents a new home port option for cruise passengers. Princess Cruises plans 27 departures from Houston during the 2013-2014 cruise season, sending the Caribbean Princess on seven-day cruises of the Western Caribbean. Traveling to Bayport Cruise Terminal by air is convenient, too, as the terminal is easily accessible from both of Houston’s airports, George Bush Intercontinental Airport and William P. Hobby Airport. In addition, Houston is a major airline hub, which makes non-stop service available from many cities in North America.
Getting to the Houston (Bayport) Cruise Terminal and Parking. Note: If you are flying into Houston and looking for how to get to the port without driving, visit this page on port transportation options. The Bayport Cruise Terminal is located on the east side of Houston, between the suburbs of La Porte and Kemah. The terminal sits right on the edge of Galveston Bay. The terminal is approximately 20 miles from Houston Hobby Airport, 30 miles from downtown Houston, and 45 miles from Bush Intercontinental Airport
The Bayport Cruise Terminal is located at the Port of Houston Authority's facility on the western shore of Galveston Bay. It is approximately 45 miles from Bush Intercontinental Airport and 21 miles from William P. Hobby Airport. Note: There are currently no cruise lines originating from the Houston cruise terminal. Kids Free. Use this simple form to find hotels, motels, and other lodging near the Port of Houston Cruise Terminal in Pasadena. The Bayport cruise terminal serves as one of two ports of embarkation and debarkation for Houston, TX. The other is Galveston Cruise T