(For a whole blood donation, it is about 8-10 minutes. If you are donating platelets, red cells or plasma by apheresis the collection can take up to 2 hours.). When approximately a pint of blood has been collected, the donation is complete and a staff person will place a bandage on your arm.
The place I go to gives you $20 the first time you donate in a week and $35 the second. It really depends on the donation center as well as whe … re in the country you're located. It's mostly based on demand from what I understand. If there aren't a lot of people donating, they'll up how much they pay.
For more about how much money you can make and current local promotions, contact your Octapharma Plasma donation center. The amount of plasma you can donate is based on your body weight (110 to 149 pounds, 150 to 174 pounds, 175 to 400 pounds). These guidelines are set by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
1 You can donate every 28 days, up to 13 times per year. 2  The average donation takes 1 hour and 15 minutes. 3  If you are a platelet/plasma donor, you can still make regular whole blood or double red cell donations. 4  Both gifts are vital for patients with life threatening diseases.
It also depends on where your donating. I don't think there is a set amount of money. ~~Actually, a lot … of places do have a set amount, at least for the first few donations. This can range anywhere from $30 to $50 depending on where you live and how urgent the need for plasma is in your area.
Who can donate? Generally, plasma donors must be 18 years of age and weigh at least 110 pounds (50kg). All individuals must pass two separate medical examinations, a medical history screening and testing for transmissible viruses, before their donated plasma can be used to manufacture plasma protein therapies.
$20 -$50 each time up to twice weekly for healthy people. $200-$1000 each time if you are diagnosed with diseases like Lupus, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Hepatitis A, Toxoplasmosis, and many others. The Plasma is used to develop diagnostic tests.