Antegrade amnesia: Amnesia in which the loss of memory relates to events that occur after a traumatic event. There is inability to recall new information. Old information can be recalled. Antegrade amnesia may follow brain trauma. Also called antegrade amnesia. 
Anterograde Amnesia Definition. Anterograde Amnesia is a rare condition characterized by a typical pattern of memory loss. It is generally caused by some traumatic brain injury or a mental shock. The disorder makes it impossible for a patient to create fresh memories after the incident that leads to the amnesia. 
Amnesia (from Greek ἀμνησία from ἀ- meaning without and μνήμη memory), also known as amnesic syndrome, is a deficit in memory caused by brain damage, disease, or psychological trauma. Amnesia can also be caused temporarily by the use of various sedatives and hypnotic drugs. Essentially, amnesia is loss of memory. 
To a large degree, anterograde amnesia remains a mysterious ailment because the precise mechanism of storing memories is not yet well understood, although it is known that the regions involved are certain sites in the temporal cortex, especially in the hippocampus and nearby subcortical regions. In cases of pure anterograde amnesia, patients have recollections of events prior to the injury, but cannot recall day-to-day information or new facts presented to them after the injury occurred.
- Anterograde amnesia is a form of amnesia where new events are not transferred to long-term memory. - Retrograde amnesia is a form of amnesia where someone will be unable to recall events that occurred before the onset of amnesia.
Anterograde Amnesia. by Saul McLeod published 2011. Anterograde amnesia refers to loss of memory for events after an incident – often such cases are examples of what are known as pure amnesiacs. 
Anterograde amnesia is a form of amnesia where new events are not transferred to long-term memory, so the sufferer will not be able to remember anything that occurs after the onset of this type of amnesia for more than a few moments. - Retrograde amnesia is a form of amnesia where someone will be unable to recall events that occurred before the onset of amnesia.
Anterograde amnesia is a loss of the ability to create new memories after the event that caused the amnesia, leading to a partial or complete inability to recall the recent past, while long-term memories from before the event remain intact. In cases of pure anterograde amnesia, patients have recollections of events prior to the injury, but cannot recall day-to-day information or new facts presented to them after the injury occurred.
Below is a list of the most common ones: 1  Anterograde amnesia-the patient cannot remember new information. 2  Things that happened recently, information that should be stored into short-term memory disappear. 3  This is usually caused by brain trauma (brain damage from a blow to the head, for example). 1
anterograde amnesia impairment of memory for events occurring after the onset of amnesia. Unlike retrograde amnesia, it is the inability to form new memories. circumscribed amnesia loss of memory for all events during a discrete, specific period of time. Called also localized amnesia. anterograde amnesia. Neurology Amnesia which occurs from the moment of physical or mental trauma; AA is characterized by an inability to form new memories of life events. Cf Ret