Al Jolson sings My Mammy in this tribute to Larry Parks. Larry Parks' widow Betty Garrett died on the morning of Saturday 12th of February 2011, aged 91. 1  Entertainment. Al Jolson sings My Mammy-Larry Parks Tribute-His wife Betty Garrett died on Feb 12 2011 aged 91.
Larry Parks (December 13, 1914 – April 13, 1975) was an American stage and movie actor. He eventually did so in tears, only to be blacklisted anyway. Larry Parks eventually gave up the names of his former colleagues and submitted to the HUAC. Following his admission before the committee, Columbia Pictures dropped him, and a romantic comedy he made for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was shelved for three years.
Larry Parks was an American stage and movie actor. He was born Samuel Klausman Lawrence Parks. His career was virtually ended when he admitted to having once been a member of a Communist party cell, which led to his blacklisting by all Hollywood studios. … Read More
5' 10 (1.78 m). When amiable Columbia Pictures actor Larry Parks was entrusted the role of entertainer Al Jolson in the biopic The Jolson Story (1946), his career finally hit the big time. His movie career ended in 1951 when he was the first actor to admit that he had belonged to a Communist cell from 1941 to 1945 and was subsequently blacklisted. Sons with Betty Garrett: composer Garrett Parks and actor Andrew Parks.
Parks with Teresa Wright in The Happiest Day, a 1954 Ford Theatre presentation. Now that Parks was a full-fledged star, Columbia kept him busy in elaborate productions (including a couple of costume epics) until he appeared in the sequel, Jolson Sings Again (1949), which was another huge box office hit. He eventually did so in tears, only to be blacklisted anyway. Larry Parks eventually gave up the names of his former colleagues and submitted to the HUAC. Following his admission before the committee, Columbia Pictures dropped him, and a romantic comedy he made for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was shelved for three years.
When Columbia was preparing a screen biography of Al Jolson, many big-name stars were considered for the title role, including James Cagney and Danny Thomas (both of whom turned it down), but resident contractee Larry Parks was reportedly the first actor to be interviewed. Parks impressed the producers and won the role. He eventually did so in tears, only to be blacklisted anyway. Larry Parks eventually gave up the names of his former colleagues and submitted to the HUAC. Following his admission before the committee, Columbia Pictures dropped him, and a romantic comedy he made for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was shelved for three years.
Mini Bio (1). When amiable Columbia Pictures actor Larry Parks was entrusted the role of entertainer Al Jolson in the biopic The Jolson Story (1946), his career finally hit the big time. His movie career ended in 1951 when he was the first actor to admit that he had belonged to a Communist cell from 1941 to 1945 and was subsequently blacklisted. Sons with Betty Garrett: composer Garrett Parks and actor Andrew Parks.
Actor | Soundtrack. When amiable Columbia Pictures actor Larry Parks was entrusted the role of entertainer Al Jolson in the biopic The Jolson Story (1946), his career finally hit the big time. 
Overview (4). When amiable Columbia Pictures actor Larry Parks was entrusted the role of entertainer Al Jolson in the biopic The Jolson Story (1946), his career finally hit the big time. His movie career ended in 1951 when he was the first actor to admit that he had belonged to a Communist cell from 1941 to 1945 and was subsequently blacklisted. Sons with Betty Garrett: composer Garrett Parks and actor Andrew Parks.