Neisseria gonorrhoeae, also known as gonococci (plural), or gonococcus (singular), is a species of Gram-negative coffee bean-shaped diplococci bacteria responsible for the sexually transmitted infection gonorrhea. To be specific, they grow on chocolate agar with carbon dioxide. These cocci are facultatively intracellular and typically appear in pairs (diplococci), in the shape of coffee beans. Of the eleven species of Neisseria that colonize humans, only two are pathogens.
Infection of the genitals can result in a purulent (or pus-like) discharge from the genitals, which may be foul-smelling. Symptoms may include inflammation, redness, swelling, and dysuria. N. gonorrhoeae can also cause conjunctivitis, pharyngitis, proctitis or urethritis, prostatitis, and orchitis. To be specific, they grow on chocolate agar with carbon dioxide. These cocci are facultatively intracellular and typically appear in pairs (diplococci), in the shape of coffee beans. Of the eleven species of Neisseria that colonize humans, only two are pathogens.
Neisseria are fastidious Gram-negative cocci that require nutrient supplementation to grow in laboratory cultures. To be specific, they grow on chocolate agar with carbon dioxide. These cocci are facultatively intracellular and typically appear in pairs (diplococci), in the shape of coffee beans. Of the eleven species of Neisseria that colonize humans, only two are pathogens.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the obligate human pathogen that causes the sexually transmitted disease (STD) gonorrhea. This Gram-negative diplococci/gonococci does not infect other animals or experimental animals and does not survive freely in the environment. Neisseria gonorrhoeae does not thrive in the environment and grows in a CO 2 environment, therefore, the urethra, cervix, rectum, and throat are the main sites of infection.
Neisseria is a large genus of bacteria that colonize the mucosal surfaces of many animals. Of the 11 species that colonize humans, only two are pathogens, N. meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeae systemic disease. Neisseria species are Gram-negative bacteria included among the proteobacteria, a large group of Gram-negative forms. The International Pathogenic Neisseria Conference (IPNC), occurring every two years, is a forum for the presentation of cutting-edge research on all aspects of the genus Neisseria. This includes immunology, vaccinology, and physiology and metabolism of N. meningitidis, N. gonorrhoeae and the commensal species.
Of the Neisseria and related species, only N. gonorrhoeae is considered always to be pathogenic i.e., cause disease. N. gonorrhoeae is not considered to be normal flora under any circumstances. Neisseria species. 
Gonorrhea is a very common infectious bacterium, a Gram negative, fastidious, diplococci, that can grow and rapidly multiply in the mucous membranes, especially the mouth, throat, and anus of males and females, and the cervix, fallopian tubes, and uterus of the female reproductive tract. 
Because investigations of sexual abuse may be initiated on the basis of a laboratory diagnosis of gonorrhea, it is important that only strains of N. gonorrhoeae be identified and reported as N. gonorrhoeae. A definitive diagnosis of gonorrhea must be obtained for medicolegal purposes. A Suggestive diagnosis is defined by the presence of: 1  a mucopurulent endocervical or urethral exudate on physical examination and. 2  sexual exposure to a person infected with
Introduction. Neisseria gonorrhoeae, also known as gonococcus (GC), is a gram-negative diplococcus which is one of the most common sexually transmitted microorganisms, and causes gonorrhea. Gonorrhea cervicitis, courtesy of CDC PHIL #4087. Humans are the only natural reservoir of N. gonorrhoeae, and transmission is primarily sexual
Abstract. The gram-negative coccus Neisseria gonorrhoeae was found to grow regularly in at least two dimensions. Growth proceeded at a linear rate sequentially in each dimension. Growth in the second dimension (former width) was initiated slightly before the pole-division plane distance equalled the cell width. 