Seeds stored in paper envelopes dry out a lot, and take a long time to rehydrate. Most should germinate in 21-40 days. Seeds stored in plastic bags after drying 24-48 hours and then refrigerated germinate much quicker. Mine stored that way germinate within 3-21 days. Don't give up too quickly. This is my first attempt at sprouting seeds (my own crosses) and I'm experimenting with an Aero Garden with an insert (70 grow medium plugs). The water supply is from below (keeps the grow plugs moist) and there are grow lamps. The seeds were refrigerated for 4-5 months in paper envelopes. I didn't soak them.
Cannabis germination is the process of getting your seeds to sprout, and you know sprouting has occurred when a little white tendril pops out of the seed. The little white tendril that emerges from a cannabis seed during germination is your plant's first root, known as a taproot.. Marijuana seeds need the following to get the best germination rates: Moisture-Keep things moist but not soaking (you can soak hard seeds for up to 24-32 hours, but do not leave seeds soaking in water for longer than that). Peace-Seeds need to be left alone while you're waiting for the taproot to show up.
4. Thin the seedlings. If a lot of the seeds germinate and sprout, it's necessary to thin out some of the weaker seedlings so the strong ones can get even stronger. Thin them out to the point where you have 2 or 3 sprouts per seed container, or 2 or 3 sprouts for each area the size of one egg carton segment. The width of your container depends on how many seeds you're planting; make sure you allow plenty of space for the seeds to germinate. 1  You can buy a seed pallet or tray, but it's just as easy to make your own out of an old egg carton, newspaper, a wooden box, or other household supplies.
Within that 10-day period, you will notice that some seeds germinate right away and others take a little bit longer. The amount of time does not really have anything to do with how healthy your plant will be in the long run. It usually has more to do with the placement of the seed and where its root sprouted. Marijuana seeds need the following to get the best germination rates: Moisture-Keep things moist but not soaking (you can soak hard seeds for up to 24-32 hours, but do not leave seeds soaking in water for longer than that). Peace-Seeds need to be left alone while you're waiting for the taproot to show up.
Comments. Submit. The length of time it takes for a flower to sprout varies on the plant. Most flower seeds have a germination period of 2 to 3 weeks, after which the flower will begin to sprout and push through the soil. Keywords: flower seed, planting seeds, germination of flowers. 
You'll need a container that's 2 or 3 inches (5.1 or 7.6 cm) deep with drainage holes in the bottom. It can be shaped like an open tray or have individual segments for different seeds. The width of your container depends on how many seeds you're planting; make sure you allow plenty of space for the seeds to germinate. 1  You can buy a seed pallet or tray, but it's just as easy to make your own out of an old egg carton, newspaper, a wooden box, or other household supplies.
It depends on which seed you have. Generally seeds take between 7 and 14 days to germinate. There are of course exceptions, some varieties can germinate within 2 days if con … ditions are right, where as others can take literally years to germinate-even if conditions are right. 15 people found this useful. If you want to plant (or have recently planted) seeds and want to know how long it will be before you start to see some green shoots, there is no quick answer. In temperate countries, most commercially sold garden flower seeds can be expected to germinate in somewhere between 14 to 30 days.
The length of time it takes a seed to germinate depends on a range of factors. Some of the most important are: The range of germination times generally varies from as little as one day (e.g. for some mustard seeds) to over one year (e.g. for some trees). If you want to plant (or have recently planted) seeds and want to know how long it will be before you start to see some green shoots, there is no quick answer. In temperate countries, most commercially sold garden flower seeds can be expected to germinate in somewhere between 14 to 30 days.