An egg white contains all protein -- 3.5 grams per egg; the rest of the nutrients, protein and fat are hiding in the yolk, which means the yellow is the most nutritious part. Egg yolks contain 240mg of leucine, the amino acid single-handedly responsible for flipping your genetic muscle-building switch.
Chop cooked egg whites and add them to a tossed green salad for a tasty meal with a boost of protein. Saute egg whites with cooked rice and vegetables for a nutritious vegetarian meal that contains a healthy dose of protein, vitamins and minerals.
Reduce Birth Defects – Eggs contain folate, a nutrient which studies have shown to help prevent birth defects when consumed prenatally, one egg contains 44μg (11%) of folate. 15. Good Source of Vitamin A – One egg contains 19% of the RDA for vitamin A, which plays an important role in improving the immune system. 16. Promote Healthy Hair and Nails – The sulfur contained in eggs and the additional vitamins and minerals help promote hair and nail growth.
Eggs are a nutritional powerhouse, but for a while, egg yolks have been demonized in the health-food industry as causing blood-cholesterol levels to skyrocket.
The Truth: Not only are eggs a fantastic source of lean protein and heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, but they contain some pretty important nutrients. One large egg has roughly 186 milligrams of cholesterol — all of which is found in the egg’s yolk.
3. Great Source of Protein – Eggs are a great source of protein, one egg contains 6 grams of protein. 4. Omega 3’s – Eggs contain a high level of essential omega-3 fatty acids, an essential nutrient and good for your heart. 5.
One cooked egg white contains 17 calories. Cooked egg whites are a low-fat and cholesterol-free way to add protein and key nutrients to your diet. While many of the nutrients in eggs are concentrated in the yolk, eating just the white is a healthy option if you are following a low-cholesterol diet. Add egg whites to your diet in a variety of creative ways to take advantage of the nutritional benefits they have to offer.