A glycohemoglobin test, or hemoglobin A1c, is a blood test that checks the amount of sugar (glucose) bound to the hemoglobin in the red blood cells. When hemoglobin and glucose bond, a coat of sugar forms on the hemoglobin.
The more glucose in the blood, the more haemoglobin A1C or HbA1C will be present in the blood. The HbA1C test is currently one of the best ways to check diabetes is under control; it is the blood test that gets sent to the laboratory, and it is done on the spot in some hospital clinics.
HbA1c facts. 1  Hemoglobin A1c, often abbreviated HbA1c, is a form of hemoglobin (a blood pigment that carries oxygen) that is bound to glucose. 2  The blood test for HbA1c is routinely performed in people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
HbA1c forms when haemoglobin joins with glucose in the blood. HbA1c is a term commonly used in relation to diabetes. This guide explains what HbA1c is, how it differs from blood glucose levels and how it's used for diagnosing diabetes.
A1C is a lab test that shows the average level of blood sugar (glucose) over the previous 3 months. It shows how well you are controlling your diabetes.
A. The hemoglobin A1c test, also called HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin test, or glycohemoglobin, is an important blood test that shows how well your diabetes is being controlled.
HbA1c blood glucose test for diabetes. HbA1c is an important average measure of how well a person's diabetes is being controlled over the previous 2 to 3 months. HbA1c or haemoglobin A1c blood test, is also known as the glycated haemoglobin test or glycohaemoglobin.
For people without diabetes, the normal range for the hemoglobin A1c test is between 4% and 5.6%. Hemoglobin A1c levels between 5.7% and 6.4% indicate increased risk of diabetes, and levels of 6.5% or higher indicate diabetes.
1 Hemoglobin A1c, often abbreviated HbA1c, is a form of hemoglobin (a blood pigment that carries oxygen) that is bound to glucose. 2  The blood test for HbA1c is routinely performed in people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus.