Autotrophs do not depend on other organism for their food. They are the primary producer and are placed first in the food chain. Heterotrophs that depend on autotrophs and other heterotrophs for their energy level are placed next on the food chain. Autotrophs produce their own energy by one of the following two methods: 1  Photosynthesis-Photoautotrophs use energy from sun to convert water from the soil and carbon dioxide from the air into glucose. 2  Glucose provides energy to plants and is used to make cellulose which is used to build cell walls
Autotrophs are organisms that can produce their own food from the substances available in their surroundings using light (photosynthesis) or chemical energy (chemosynthesis). Heterotrophs cannot synthesize their own food and rely on other organisms — both plants and animals — for nutrition. Autotrophs produce their own energy by one of the following two methods: 1  Photosynthesis-Photoautotrophs use energy from sun to convert water from the soil and carbon dioxide from the air into glucose. 2  Glucose provides energy to plants and is used to make cellulose which is used to build cell walls
Answer 1: A heterotroph is any living organism that obtains its energy from carbohydrates and other organic material. In simpler terms, heterotrophs are organisms that cannot produce their own food, therefore they eat other organisms that CAN produce their own food. All animals and most bacteria and fungi are heterotrophic. A Heterotroph is a living organism that obtains its energy from carbohydrates and other organic material. All animals and most bacteria and fungi are heterotrophic. i.e. people and animals eat complex carbohydrates and sugars which they metabolize to produce energy.
Heterotrophs contrast with autotrophs, such as plants and algae, which can use energy from sunlight (photoautotrophs) or inorganic compounds (lithoautotrophs) to produce organic compounds such as carbohydrates, fats, and proteins from inorganic carbon dioxide. Overview of cycle between autotrophs and heterotrophs. A heterotroph (/ˈhɛtərɵtroʊf/ ; ἕτερος heteros = another, different and τροφή trophe = nutrition) is an organism that cannot fix carbon and uses organic carbon for growth.
Autotrophs and Heterotrophs. Organisms are divided into autotrophs and heterotrophs according to their energy pathways. Autotrophs are those organisms that are able to make energy-containing organic molecules from inorganic raw material by using basic energy sources such as sunlight. Plants are the prime example of autotrophs, using photosynthesis. All other organisms must make use of food that comes from other organisms in the form of fats, carbohydrates and protein
Heterotrophs are organisms which derive their energy from organic sources-like other organisms or organic matter. They include animals and fungi: animals do indeed eat plants, fungi and other animals; fungi don't eat anything, but consume organic matter (either as saprophytes-decomposers-or as parasites). Even fungi are examples of heterotrophs since they have to digest other organisms (in their case decaying plant or animal matter) in order to create high energy molecules for use in their own metabolism.
Best Answer: Heterotrophs are just the name given to organisms that can not create their own high energy molecules but must consume other organisms in order to obtain them. Even fungi are examples of heterotrophs since they have to digest other organisms (in their case decaying plant or animal matter) in order to create high energy molecules for use in their own metabolism.
Other organisms, called heterotrophs, take in autotrophs as food to carry out functions necessary for their life. Thus, heterotrophs — all animals, almost all fungi, as well as most bacteria and protozoa — depend on autotrophs, or primary producers, for the energy and raw materials they need. Overview of cycle between autotrophs and heterotrophs. Photosynthesis is the main means by which plants, algae and many bacteria produce organic compounds and oxygen from carbon dioxide and water (green arrow).