The Shade of Akama, the portion of Akama's soul tied to Illidan's will, is a boss in Black Temple. Akama with the help of the adventurers released his soul and was also able to regain his people's trust. When the time is right, the Betrayer will become... the betrayed.. The elder sage Akama is the leader of both the Ashtongue tribe and the elite of said tribe, the Ashtongue Deathsworn, a faction of Broken draenei supposedly in the service of Illidan Stormrage.
Akama can be found in front of Maiev Shadowsong's cell in Warden's Cage in Shadowmoon Valley. In order to reach him, you must enter into the underground portion of Warden's Cage and look to your right at what appears to be just a pool of water. For the Akama who appears in the Warlords of Draenor expansion, see Exarch Akama.
On returning from Arcatraz, Akama gives a quest to retrieve the [Heart of Fury] , one of the shards of the Ata'mal Crystal, from Ata'mal Terrace in Shadowmoon Valley. When this is completed, Akama sends the party to meet a naaru, A'dal, in Shattrath City. For the Akama who appears in the Warlords of Draenor expansion, see Exarch Akama.
On returning from the Arcatraz, Akama gives a quest to retrieve the [Heart of Fury] , one of the shards of the [Ata'mal Crystal] , from the Ata'mal Terrace in Shadowmoon Valley. When this is completed, Akama sends the party to meet the naaru A'dal in Shattrath City. When the time is right, the Betrayer will become... the betrayed.. The elder sage Akama is the leader of both the Ashtongue tribe and the elite of said tribe, the Ashtongue Deathsworn, a faction of Broken draenei supposedly in the service of Illidan Stormrage.
(TCG). Akama is a level 70 Elite Broken draenei located at Warden's Cage in Shadowmoon Valley. He is the leader of both the Ashtongue tribe and the elite of said tribe called Ashtongue Deathsworn, a faction of Broken draenei supposedly in the service of Illidan Stormrage. For the Akama who appears in the Warlords of Draenor expansion, see Exarch Akama.
Of note is Akama yields to his opponent at very low health, ensuring he's alive and well when the Burning Legion doubtlessly return in a future expansion. Comment by SKOTy. and then Akama, attempting to earn finances to restore black temple, was brutally betrayed by the very hero who he had aided in killing Illidan, continuing the cycle of betrayal. And because of the hero's actions, all came to ruin in outland.
The Burning Crusade. This section concerns content exclusive to The Burning Crusade. Take this as my promise to you that when the time comes and you face Illidan, I will be on your side.. Akama is a level 70 Broken draenei located in front of Maiev Shadowsong's cell in the Warden's Cage in Shadowmoon Valley. In order to reach him, adventurers of the Horde and Alliance had to enter into the underground portion of the Warden's Cage and look to right at what appears to be just a pool of water. When the time is right, the Betrayer will become... the betrayed.. The elder sage Akama is the leader of both the Ashtongue tribe and the elite of said tribe, the Ashtongue Deathsworn, a faction of Broken draenei supposedly in the service of Illidan Stormrage.
Akama summons spirit wolfs, casts Chain Lightning, places a buff on himself called Shadow Strikes and he has a knockback. The chain lightning hurts so make that your interrupting priority. Dps the wolfs to prevent them from overwhelming you. Comment by SKOTy. and then Akama, attempting to earn finances to restore black temple, was brutally betrayed by the very hero who he had aided in killing Illidan, continuing the cycle of betrayal. And because of the hero's actions, all came to ruin in outland.