The purpose of my experiment is to determine how temperature affects bacterial growth in plastic disposable water bottles. People may be interested in this because they often leave their water bottles in different conditions until the next time they drink out of the bottle. 
Bacterial growth increases with temperature or humidity. Lower temperatures will inhibit or completely stop bacterial growth, but not kill bacteria. The best temperatur … e for fastest growth of some bacterial strains (such as E. coli) is the human body temperature at 37°C. However, most species cannot survive in extreme temperatures. Yes, temperature does have an affect on the growth of a plant. If the temperature reaches a certain temperature such as -7 degrees grass will freeze, but not die.
I used this type of bacteria to study comparative growth rates at different temperatures (28°C, 37°C, and 45°C) and for different times (24h, 48h, and 72h). I predicted that bacteria would grow best at 37°C compared to the other temperatures, because the mean temperature of many mammals is 37°C. 
Yes. Bacterial growth increases with temperature or humidity. Lower temperatures will inhibit or completely stop bacterial growth, but not kill bacteria. The best temperature for fastest growth of some bacterial strains (such as E. coli) is the human body temperature at 37°C. However, most species cannot survive in extreme temperatures. Yes, temperature does have an affect on the growth of a plant. If the temperature reaches a certain temperature such as -7 degrees grass will freeze, but not die. If the tempe … rature reaches a high of 120 degrees grass's water will evaporate and the plant WILL die from dehydration
Bacterial growth is governed by factors such as temperature, pH, salt concentration, nutrient and oxygen. The optimum temperature for most bacteria to survive and grow ranges from 25 degrees Celsius to 40 degrees Celsius, and the optimum pH ranges from 6 to 8. Observation. Bacteria that were exposed to temperatures of 60 degrees Celsius and 100 degrees Celsius were observed not to have any growth when transferred to the Petri dishes, whereas bacteria exposed to -78 degrees Celsius and 0 degrees Celsius were observed to have a significant amount of growth.
University Study of Temperature on Bacteria. In a study done by students at James Madison University, the Escherichia coli (E. Coli) and Bacillus megaterium were put through three high temperatures: 80 degrees F, 98 degrees F and 108 degrees F. Both bacteria grew best at the lowest of the temperatures. Extreme Heating. Extreme heating over well over the boiling point of water is required to stop bacterial growth and/or kill bacteria altogether. A temperature that is higher than the highest optimum temperature for a hyperthermophilic bacterium will stop the reproduction of that bacterium and any other.
Adding to the key role that temperature plays in bacterial growth, humidity might affect susceptibility of eggs to microbial penetration but perhaps only when high humidity results in condensation and presence of liquid water on the egg surface. At a high humidity, the growth of bacteria is expected to be higher than at a lower humidity. In addition, temperature can affect humidity by altering the amount of liquid water present. This is expected since humid conditions can provide ideal environments for microbial growth.
Procedure. 1. The independent variables in this science fair project are the temperature and species of bacteria-E Coli, Streptococcus or Bacillus. The dependent variable is the size of bacteria growth after five days, which is determined by measuring the size of bacterial growth with a ruler. Observation. Bacteria that were exposed to temperatures of 60 degrees Celsius and 100 degrees Celsius were observed not to have any growth when transferred to the Petri dishes, whereas bacteria exposed to -78 degrees Celsius and 0 degrees Celsius were observed to have a significant amount of growth.