This career is categorized as an advance practice registered nurse (APRN) role because it requires graduate-level educational and clinical training. CRNAs spend 2-3 more years in school than many nursing professionals, such as RNs and LPNs, who do not need to earn a graduate degree. Due to the high level of precision and knowledge demanded of them, CRNAs operate with high levels of autonomy. 
Both pathways take 2-3 years to complete. There are over 100 accredited CRNA programs in the United States, and that number is growing each year. The Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs (COA) maintains an updated list of approved institutions on its website. Admission to most nurse anesthetist programs requires at least a year of professional nursing experience in an acute care setting—preferably surgery or critical care. During graduate school, CRNAs complete about 2,500 hours of clinical training and administer approximately 850 anesthetics, according to AANA.
Nurse anesthetists were among the first specialty nurses to require continuing education. CRNAs must be recertified every two years, which includes meeting practice requirements and obtaining a minimum of 40 continuing education credits. The first organized program in nurse anesthesia education was offered in 1909.
CRNAs usually make more than NPs. The total time required for the advanced practice nursing programs is 2 years in graduate school (or in some cases from 20 to 28 months) though when you factor in the 2 years of work experience as an RN, it does take about 8 years from the start of college to completion of the goal. To be a nurse anesthetist you need a BSN and then go on to a master's program in nurse anesthesia, which is 2-3 more years. You do NOT need a doctorate degree as the first answer stated. Starting salaries for CRNAs are over $100k in all areas of the country
2. Get experience. As an RN or BSN student, gear your hands-on practice toward acute care, which is usually the type of experience nurse anesthesia master's programs require. Add that to a year or so of experience after you graduate, and you are well on your way to entry in a nurse anesthesia master's program. How to Become a Nurse Anesthetist. Learn how to become a nurse anesthetist with these 10 career tips. Nurse anesthetists administer anesthesia services in a wide range of health care facilities, from the hospital emergency room to the dentist's office.
Education and experience required to become a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) include: A Bachelor’s of Science in Nursing (BSN) or other appropriate baccalaureate degree. A current license as a registered nurse. At least one year’s experience in an acute care nursing setting. CRNAs must be recertified every two years, which includes meeting practice requirements and obtaining a minimum of 40 continuing education credits. The first organized program in nurse anesthesia education was offered in 1909.
Nurses were the first providers of anesthesia care and have continued to work in the field for more than 150 years. The designation of certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) first came into existence in the late 1950s as a mode of providing advanced training to the specialty of anesthesia nursing. Training to Become a CRNA. Before becoming a certified registered nurse anesthetist, a nurse must have at least one year of experience in an acute care setting, such as an emergency room or critical care unit, and complete additional training in a large hospital setting.
According to the American Association of Nurse Anesthetists (AANA), it generally takes a minimum of seven years postsecondary education and experience to become a certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA). Prior to applying to an accredited nurse anesthesia program, candidates typically complete at least one year of work in a clinical setting such as an intensive care unit (ICU), cardiac care unit (CCU), or emergency room (ER).