Legumes and leafy green vegetables, along with some fruits and nuts, are rich in biotin and vitamin B-5, or pantothenic acid. Rich sources of vitamin B-2, or riboflavin, include broccoli, spinach, Brussels sprouts, mushrooms, almonds and soybeans. Beets and peanuts are good sources of niacin, or vitamin B-3.
Liver, clams and trout are all especially rich in vitamin B-12. Because animal products are the most common sources of vitamin B-12, vegans may be a risk for deficiency. Eating fortified foods or nutritional yeast, or taking dietary supplements, may reduce this risk.
Whole grain products are good sources of all B complex vitamins except vitamin B-12 and biotin. Options include whole-grain flour, brown and wild rice, whole barley, muesli, oatmeal, millet and wheat germ.
9 Foods Rich in Vitamin B6. Vitamin B6, also known as pyridoxine, is a water-soluble vitamin that is part of the vitamin-B complex group and is also one of the most important and industrious nutrients in the human body. Vitamin B6 is an essential nutrient for a number of reasons.
It is for this reason that one should include vitamin B complex foods in one's diet. Here is a list of vitamin B complex foods. 1  Pork, berries, legumes, lean meats. 2  Nuts, soy milk (Vitamin B1). 3  Eggs, dark green vegetables, fish, grains, lean meat, mushrooms (B2). 4  Sunflower seeds, tuna, poultry, potato, cottage cheese, liver (B3). 5  Organ meats, avocados, broccoli, mushrooms(B5).
Richest among all the vitamin B complex foods are milk, yeast, liver, whole-grain cereals, nuts, eggs, yogurt, fruits, meats and leafy vegetables. Vitamin B1 is an essential vitamin that aids in conversion of carbohydrates into energy. It also helps regulate normal functioning of heart, muscles and nervous system.
Vitamin B complex, which includes B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, B9 and B12, is often pegged as an energy booster. Beyond its ability to convert food into energy, B vitamins are essential for growth, development and other important bodily functions.