Map of Pisa City, Italy. One of the ancient country in world's history is Italy. Country with strong Economy, exotic tourist destinations, legendry history and beautiful people. The geographical coordinates of the city are 43 42 N, 10 24 E. It covers an area of 71.4 square miles and has an estimated population of 88,332. It is the capital city of Province of Pisa and is located at the junction of two rivers, Arno and the Serchio.
The best way to visit Pisa is walking the streets, as the city center is very small, and enjoy the sight and the atmosphere. Pisa would not be Pisa without the University. The city is animated by the students, who organize parties, shows, and cultural events, and fill the central street of the city at night. The University of Pisa has 60,000 students in a city of about 100,000 inhabitants. 
Today, Pisa is crammed full of wonderful, historical monuments and buildings dating back many hundreds of years, and much of the city has managed to retain its medieval appearance. Pisa is also known for its excellent university, which was established in 1343 and has become one of Italy's top schools. Related Guides: Pisa, located in western Tuscany, is known throughout the world for its famous Leaning Tower, but there is so much more to Pisa than just this striking landmark. This ecclesiastical city began its life as a seaside settlement around 3,000 years ago and was first laid out in the mid-eleventh century.
The Italian city of Pisa is located in Tuscany, Italy. The geographical coordinates of the city are 43 42 N, 10 24 E. It covers an area of 71.4 square miles and has an estimated population of 88,332. It is the capital city of Province of Pisa and is located at the junction of two rivers, Arno and the Serchio. Like most of Central and South Italy, it has a Mediterranean climate. The average temperature of the city is 59 degrees Fahrenheit
The city of Pisa rises above the banks of Arno, just before the mouth of the river at Marina of Pisa. It is one of the most important cities in Tuscany and it is extremely well-known in the world, because of its famous symbol:  the Leaning Tower . Pisa is both an ancient and modern city. On the one hand, it is proud of its past, when it was a Marittime Republic and became a world power during the Middle Ages.
Picturesque breaks in Pisa. A Tuscan city famous for its Leaning Tower, Pisa is a beautiful destination in Italy ideal for city breaks within easy reach of the coast. Within its medieval walls sits the beautiful Piazzo del Duomo, home to the tower, cathedral, baptistery and cemetery. Euro. A Tuscan city famous for its Leaning Tower, Pisa is a beautiful destination in Italy ideal for city breaks within easy reach of the coast.
The origin of the name, Pisa, is a mystery. While the origin of the city had remained unknown for centuries, the Pelasgi, the Greeks, the Etruscans, and the Ligurians had variously been proposed as founders of the city (for example, a colony of the ancient city of Pisa, Greece).
Although Pisa is known worldwide for its leaning tower (the bell tower of the city's cathedral), the city of over 89,940 residents (around 200,000 with the metropolitan area) contains more than 20 other historic churches, several medieval palaces and various bridges across the River Arno. While the origin of the city had remained unknown for centuries, the Pelasgi, the Greeks, the Etruscans, and the Ligurians had variously been proposed as founders of the city (for example, a colony of the ancient city of Pisa, Greece).
History, facts and travel tips about Pisa. Pisa is a city with aristocratic airs and rich in charm that, thanks to the nearby sea, emanates a special light. Its most famous attraction is without doubt the Leaning Tower and yet, besides the wonders of Piazza dei Miracoli, the city contains numerous incredible surprises. 