Lisa Vanderpump was born in London, England. She resided in London before moving to Monaco. She also lived in Cheltenham, England prior to moving to Monaco. After residing in France, Vanderpump, along with her husband and children, moved to Beverly Hills, where they had lived briefly years before. Vanderpump and Todd own a home in Montecito, California. In 1982, she married Ken Todd six weeks after meeting him; she was 21, while he was 37, and at the time owned his first bar. They have two children together, daughter Pandora (born 1986) and adopted son Max (born December 7, 1991). London property developer Warren Todd is Ken's son and Lisa's step son
Lisa was born and raised in London, England but lived in Monte Carlo and the South of France. She eventually moved to California. She has been married for the last 29 years to restaurateur Ken Todd, AKA, Ken Vanderpump. They have two children Pandora, 24 (their biological Daughter), and their adopted son Max, 18. Lisa who is now 50 years old is the oldest of the Beverly Hills Housewives.
Born Lisa Jane Vanderpump has an estimated net worth of $65 million. VanderPump is British businesswoman, restaurant owner and a star on her show ‘The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills’. Lisa VanderPump is married to Ken Todd over 28 years. Lisa is Pinky to her closest friends has two children, Pandora and Max. Lisa spent most of her childhood attending drama school.
Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Lisa Vanderpump finds herself in a dilemma. On her other Bravo reality TV show, Vanderpump Rules, she needs someone to fill in as manager at her restaurant PUMP. Lisa asks her daughter, Pandora (who was born Pandora Todd but has changed her name to Pandora Vanderpump-Sabo. Sorry, Ken!)
Editor-in-Chief. Pandora was born in London, England and has lived in the South of France, Monaco, Washington DC, and Los Angeles. Pandora’s addictions: Gold accessories, cooking for her husband Jason, strong coffee, taking beautiful photographs, curling up with a book (every day of the week), playing the piano, Notre Dame football, The Rolling Stones, English tea, wizards, puppies, singing any Broadway song, Cadbury’s chocolate, French wine.
Lisa Jane Vanderpump (born 15 September 1960) is a British restaurateur, philanthropist, author, actress, and television personality. She is known for her appearances on Bravo's The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills, Vanderpump Rules, and ABC 's Dancing with the Stars. Vanderpump and Todd own a home in Montecito, California. In 1982, she married Ken Todd six weeks after meeting him; she was 21, while he was 37, and at the time owned his first bar. They have two children together, daughter Pandora (born 1986) and adopted son Max (born December 7, 1991). London property developer Warren Todd is Ken's son and Lisa's step son
Bio: Lisa Vanderpump (born in 1961 in London) is a British actress, restauranteur and reality star. Born in London, Lisa eventually moved to California and became an actress by the age of nine. Her career flourished, with recurring roles on many TV shows, including Baywatch Nights. 
Lisa VanderPump-Todd's Salary. $500 Thousand Per Season. Lisa VanderPump net worth and salary: Lisa VanderPump-Todd is a British businesswoman and reality star who has a net worth of $65 million. Lisa VanderPump's salary per season of The Real Housewives is $500,000. Born in London, England, VanderPump-Todd is probably best known today as a Beverly Hills restaurant mogul and a cast member on the television show The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills.