Deeds of trust do not use the common terms “grantor” or “grantee.” Under a deed of trust, three parties are in play: the borrower, the lender and a neutral trustee. The borrower meets the closest definition of “grantee;” the borrower is the one who will ultimately receive title, but only after repaying the debt. Grantor, Grantee. The most common terms found in most deeds are “grantor” and “grantee.” The grantor is the person who is giving away the title or interest in the real property. The grantee is the person receiving that title.
United States trust law is the body of law regulating the legal instrument for holding wealth known as a trust. Most law regulating the creation and administration of trusts in the United States is now statutory at the state level. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A grantor retained annuity trust (commonly referred to by the acronym GRAT), is a financial instrument commonly used in the United States to make large financial gifts to family members without paying a U.S. gift tax. 
Reversionary Interest. A common instance when the IRS will treat an irrevocable trust as a grantor trust is when the grantor retains a five percent or larger reversionary interest in the trust property. 
DEFINITION of 'Grantor'. 1. A seller of either call or put options who profits from the premium for which the options are sold. Synonymous with option writer. 2. The creator of a trust, meaning the individual whose assets are put into the trust. 
Grantor trust. An exchange traded fund (ETF) may be structured as a grantor trust. Such a trust holds a fixed portfolio of assets and issues shares based on the value of those assets. Shares in grantor trust ETFs are traded on the stock market throughout the day as other ETFs are
Estate tax planners have long employed intentionally defective grantor trusts to freeze the value of an asset for estate tax purposes while transferring assets out of the estate free of gift tax. 
grantor. The person who creates the living trust. He or she decides what property to include and who the beneficiaries will be. Because the trust is revocable (i.e., can be changed or terminated) until the grantor dies, the grantor can change any part of the trust as often as he or she likes. 
grantor. n. the party who transfers title in real property (seller, giver) to another (buyer, recipient, donee) by grant deed or quit claim deed. 