Vitamin A. Carrots don’t actually contain vitamin A, but they’re an excellent source of beta-carotene, the antioxidant carotenoid that your body can convert into vitamin A. This fat-soluble nutrient is important to immunity, organ function, eye health and visual acuity – it helps your eyes adjust in dimming light.
The best source of vitamin A is liver in animal products. Other good sources include sweet potatoes, carrots, dark leafy greens, eggs, tomatoes and fortified milk.
Carrots are an excellent source of beta-carotene, and contain high amount of fiber. Beta carotene is important for eyesight, skin health, and normal growth. Carrots are a good source of fiber, vitamin C and potassium, as well as vitamin B6, folate, and several minerals including calcium and magnesium.
Vitamin A. Carrots a rich source of vitamin A, particularly in the form of beta-carotene, which gives them their vibrant orange color. Beta-carotene converts into retinol, the most usable form of vitamin A. Retinol protects the membranes surrounding your eyes that absorb light.
Confidence votes 231. Nutritionally, the carrot is an extremely rich source of vitamin A. The name carotene, which is a form of pro-vitamin, has been derived from carrot. The carotene is converted into vitamin A by the liver and it is also stored in our body.
Animal Vitamin A (Retinol) versus Plant Vitamin A (Carotenoids) There are two main sources of vitamin A: animal sources which contain preformed vitamin A as retinol and plant sources containing carotenoids, like beta-carotene, that the body converts to retinol.
Nutritionally, the carrot is an extremely rich source of vitamin A. The name carotene, which is a form of pro-vitamin, has been derived from carrot. The carotene is converted … into vitamin A by the liver and it is also stored in our body. Carrots are rich in sodium, sulphur, chlorine and contain traces of iodine.
Besides liver, good sources of vitamin A include sweet potatoes, carrots and dark, leafy greens, as well as eggs, tomatoes and fortified milk.