Medical Definition of RADIAL COLLATERAL LIGAMENT. : a ligament of the elbow that connects the lateral epicondyle with the lateral side of the annular ligament and helps to stabilize the elbow joint—called also lateral collateral ligament; compare ulnar collateral ligament. Tweet. : a ligament of the elbow that connects the lateral epicondyle with the lateral side of the annular ligament and helps to stabilize the elbow joint—called also lateral collateral ligament; compare ulnar collateral ligament.
Introduction. The palmar/plantar annular ligament is a fibrous band that wraps around the flexor tendons as they pass over the fetlock sesamoid bones on the palmar/plantar surface of the limb. Desmotomy of the annular ligament will also reduce constriction, allowing healing and drainage and thus aiding return to soundness if the primary pathology can be controlled. If adhesions are suspected, a larger incision should be made so as to grant better visualisation.
The annular ligament, in turn, is attached to the margin of the trochlear notch of the ulna, and it encircles the head of the radius, functioning to keep the head in contact with the radial notch of the ulna. The elbow joint capsule ... Click to read more below. The radial collateral ligament of the elbow, which strengthens the side of the wall of the joint capsule of the elbow, is composed of a fibrous band extending between the lateral epicondyle of the humerus (upper arm bone) and the annular ligament of the radius. 
In human anatomy, the annular ligaments of the fingers, often referred to as A pulleys and less frequently vaginal ligaments, are the annular part of the fibrous sheathes of the fingers. In the thumb there are two annular pulleys and a single oblique pulley. Together, the A pulleys form a continuous tunnel and, because each A pulley's attachments on the bone is wider than its roof, its shape prevents the pulley from pinching its neighbours at extremes of flexion.
Annular ligament syndrome (ALS) is thickening of the palmar or plantar annular ligament (PAL) which may or may not also involve the digital sheath and other associated structures. ALS can be primary or secondary. Desmotomy of the annular ligament will also reduce constriction, allowing healing and drainage and thus aiding return to soundness if the primary pathology can be controlled. If adhesions are suspected, a larger incision should be made so as to grant better visualisation.
annular ligament. A circular ligament, esp. one enclosing a head or radius or one holding the footplate of the stapes in the oval window. See also: ligament. 1  Facebook. 
As a general rule, the A1, A3, and A5 pulleys in the fingers are joint pulleys that originate from the volar plate on the volar aspect of the metacarpophalangeal, proximal interphalangeal, and distal interphalangeal joints, respectively. In the thumb there are two annular pulleys and a single oblique pulley. Together, the A pulleys form a continuous tunnel and, because each A pulley's attachments on the bone is wider than its roof, its shape prevents the pulley from pinching its neighbours at extremes of flexion.
Tendons and ligaments in the horse are the belts and cables that hold bones in place and allow the muscles to do their jobs in creating propulsion-- forward, backward, sideways, and up and down. Because of the workload often put upon them, tendons and ligaments are frequent sites of injury and disease. 
The anular ligament (orbicular ligament) is a strong band of fibers that encircles the head of the radius, and retains it in contact with the radial notch of the ulna. Per Terminologia Anatomica, the spelling is anular, but the spelling annular is frequently encountered. The head of the radius is wider than the bone's neck, and, because the anular ligament embraces both, the radial head is trapped inside the ligament which thus acts to prevent distal displacement of the radius.