Range. The American alligator is found in wetlands throughout the coastal plain of the southeastern United States. Viable alligator populations are found in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. 
The Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries (LDWF) licenses a statewide network of nuisance alligator hunters (approximately 65 hunters) to capture nuisance alligators. The Department receives over 2,200 nuisance alligator complaints annually. Some of the following information was taken from the “If You See an Alligator…” portion of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department’s website (www.tpwd.state.tx.us). 1  If the alligator is not approaching people or otherwise posing an obvious threat, wait a few days if possible-even up to a week-before contacting LDWF.
FLORIDA'S NUISANCE ALLIGATOR CONTROL PROGRAMMichael L. Jennings 17 Allan R. Woodward 1 'Dennis N. David 1 'ABSTRACTThe recovery of alligators from centuries of exploitation, coupled with aburgeoning human population in Florida has resulted in an increasing number ofproblem animals and alligator attacks. It has been accepted for inclusion in Fourth Eastern Wildlife Damage Control Conference, 1989 by an authorized administrator ofDigitalCommons@University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Jennings, Michael L.; Woodward, Allan R.; and David, Dennis N., FLORIDA'S NUISANCE ALLIGATOR CONTROLPROGRAM (1989).
The Statewide Nuisance Alligator Program (SNAP) is administered by the FWC's Division of Hunting and Game Management. SNAP is one of five components of Florida’s comprehensive Alligator Management Program. Its mission is to address complaints concerning alligators. Persons with concerns about an alligator may call our toll-free Nuisance Alligator Hotline at 866-FWC-GATOR (866-392-4286) . Generally, an alligator may be deemed a nuisance if it is at least four feet in length and the caller believes it poses a threat to people, pets or property. Occasionally, alligators less than 4 feet in length are legitimate problems and must be addressed. If an alligator less than four feet in length is a concern, call the Nuisance Alligator Hotline at 866-FWC-GATOR (866-392-4286).
Laws Regarding Trapping or Killing. It’s a third-degree felony under Florida law to kill or injure an alligator, so don’t try to poison one to get rid of it. It’s also a felony to capture and keep an alligator or its eggs unless you purchase a special alligator trapping or farming license from the state. Florida is home to roughly 1.3 million alligators, according to the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, so it should come as no surprise that the state has several laws on the books to deal with them. They range from protecting alligators to how you can legally remove one from your property.
Determine Whether an Alligator is a Nuisance. Some of the following information was taken from the “If You See an Alligator…” portion of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department’s website (www.tpwd.state.tx.us). 1  If the alligator is not approaching people or otherwise posing an obvious threat, wait a few days if possible-even up to a week-before contacting LDWF.
Florida’s Alligator Management Program has five separate divisions, one of which is the Statewide Nuisance Alligator Program. Should an alligator come lumbering into your yard, you can call SNAP toll free at 866-FWC-GATOR, and SNAP will send a nuisance alligator trapper to come collect it. But there’s a catch. Florida is home to roughly 1.3 million alligators, according to the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, so it should come as no surprise that the state has several laws on the books to deal with them. They range from protecting alligators to how you can legally remove one from your property.
Alligator hunters should consider the following when traveling to Florida in pursuit of an Alligator. If you are considering an alligator hunt in Florida and are a (NON-RESIDENT) participating in the system for public waters hunts, be advised that the cost of the license (if you are selected) is over $1000.00. The permit will allow the harvest of two alligators. You will have to choose your harvest period in advance of the hunt. If you expect to be successful it will be necessary for you to acquire a guide to hunt on the area which you were selected unless you have the equipment required and have alligator hunting experience.
If you complete the online form, then you do not have to mail in a hard copy form, unless you transfer your alligator carcass to a commercial alligator processor, then you must also complete or print out a hard copy of the alligator harvest report form, and a copy of this form must be transferred with the carcass. All permits for the 2015 Statewide Alligator Harvest Program have sold out. If you purchased an awarded permit, please allow 4 to 5 weeks from the date of payment to receive your permit and tags in the mail.