Growing Eggplant. Eggplant is a tender vegetable that is related to the tomato in almost as many shapes and colors. The bushes grow up to 2 1/2 feet tall with hairy gray-green leaves. The fruit varies is size, shape and color. Eggplants need warm soil and warm temperatures. Temperatures should remain above 68 degrees. Full sun is a must.
Eggplants are tall and have soft hairy leaves that are almost gray in color. While they do not look like tomato plants, they can grow just as tall if not taller than even the very largest tomato varieties. 
A. If you get full sun until midafternoon, you can still grow a great variety of vegetables. Many of the sun-loving vegetables such as tomatoes, peppers, eggplant, cucumbers, melons, squash, corn and beans grow best with eight hours to 10 hours of direct sunlight. You can grow these vegetables with as little as six hours or seven hours of direct sun, but they will not yield as well. -- Provide an organic, rich soil and do not overfertilize. Mix 4 inches of well-rotted compost or peat moss into the top 12 inches of soil with a shovel or roto-tiller before planting. I like to add an inch or two of dried, composted manure into beds for tomatoes, peppers, eggplant and cucumbers.
Growing Guide: Eggplant. Eggplant is a tender vegetable that is related to the tomato. The bushes grow 5 feet tall with hairy gray-green leaves. The fruit varies is size, shape and color. Plant Requirements. Eggplants need warm soil and warm temperatures. Temperatures should remain above 68 degrees. Full sun is a mus
Order Preview. Eggplant is a tender vegetable that is related to the tomato in almost as many shapes and colors. The bushes grow up to 2 1/2 feet tall with hairy gray-green leaves. The fruit varies is size, shape and color. Eggplants need warm soil and warm temperatures. Temperatures should remain above 68 degrees. Full sun is a must.
Eggplants in the Backyard Garden. One thing that’s captivating about raising eggplants is the variety that this crop offers. They grow in a wide assortment of shapes, sizes, flavors, and colors to decorate the garden or create that favorite recipe. The eggplants will grow bushy more like a pepper plant and less like a vining squash or tomato. The plants and fruits can both grow large and get pretty heavy as well. Eggplants will grow fine in regular containers however.
When planting eggplant, put them about 18 inches apart in the row, and the rows need to be about 30 inches apart if not more. This is quite a large area. You will want to fertilize your eggplants after you transplant the seedlings. Also, mid-season, when growing eggplants, side-dress plants with nitrogen. When growing eggplant, you want to remember that planting eggplant from seed should be done indoors or in a greenhouse setting. This protects the new little seedlings from any sort of frost. When planting eggplant, if you plant them too early, you will risk hurting the plant.
As the plants grow and bear, they will need support. I use tomato cages or wire loops to give my eggplants a shoulder to lean on. Asian varieties will grow to about 18 inches tall, and the larger-fruited plants usually grow 24 to 36 inches tall. If you’ve treated the crop well, you should have a bountiful harvest. 