1 According to the NHS, epiglottitis is most common in children aged between two and four. 2  However, epiglottitis is rare in the UK now due to the vaccination of children against Hib (H influenzae type b), which is the bacteria that commonly caused epiglottitis. This infection and inflammation may spread to involve the epiglottis as well as other upper airway structures. Epiglottitis usually begins as an inflammation and swelling between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis. This may cause the throat structures to push the epiglottis backward.
Conditions that cause epiglottitis include infectious, chemical and traumatic agents. Infectious causes are the most common. H influenzae type b was the most common cause prior to vaccination. Currently, organisms such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi are the most frequent causes, especially among adults. This infection and inflammation may spread to involve the epiglottis as well as other upper airway structures. Epiglottitis usually begins as an inflammation and swelling between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis. This may cause the throat structures to push the epiglottis backward.
Epiglottitis Causes. Conditions that cause epiglottitis include infectious, chemical, and traumatic agents. Infectious is the most common. H influenzae type b was once the most common cause prior to vaccination. Currently, other organisms such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi are the causes, especially among adults.
Infection. In the past, a common cause of swelling and inflammation of the epiglottis and surrounding tissues was infection with Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) bacteria. Hib is responsible for a number of serious conditions, the most common of which is meningitis. In adults, other bacteria and viruses also can cause inflammation of the epiglottis, including: 1  Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus), another bacterium that can cause meningitis, pneumonia, ear infections and blood infection (septicemia).
In adults, the most common organisms that cause acute epiglottitis are Haemophilus influenzae (25%), followed by H parainfluenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and group A streptococci. Historically, acute epiglottitis was most common in children aged 2-4 years. Since the introduction of the Hib vaccine and the accompanying dramatic reduction in H influenzae type b invasive disease incidence, epiglottitis has become rare in children.
Etiology. In adults, the most common organisms that cause acute epiglottitis are Haemophilus influenzae (25%), followed by H parainfluenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and group A streptococci. Background. Epiglottitis is an acute inflammation in the supraglottic region of the oropharynx with inflammation of the epiglottis, vallecula, arytenoids, and aryepiglottic folds (see the image below). Anecdotally, George Washington probably died of epiglottitis in 1799.
Causes of epiglottitis include infectious, chemical, and traumatic agents. Infectious is the most common. H influenzae type b was once the most common cause prior to vaccination. Currently, other organisms such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi are the causes, especially among adults. The most common symptoms include sore throat, muffling or changes in the voice, difficulty speaking, fever, difficulty swallowing, fast heart rate, and difficulties in breathing. Fever is usually high but may be low at 100.1° F in adults or even slightly lower at 99° F in cases of thermal epiglottitis.
Epiglottitis involves bacterial infection of the epiglottis, most often caused by Haemophilus influenzae type B, although some cases are attributable to Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus agalactiae, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis. Epiglottitis is an inflammation of the epiglottis — the flap at the base of the tongue that keeps food from going into the trachea (windpipe).
The most common types of disease caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) bacteria include pneumonia, bacteremia, meningitis, epiglottitis, septic arthritis, cellulitis, otitis media, purulent pericarditis, and other less common infections such as endocarditis and osteomyelitis. 