Absorption of most of the B vitamins happens further down in the small intestine, in the ileum. The other type of vitamin, the fat-soluble ones such as A, D, E and K, need to dissolve in fat before they can make it into the body. The process requires fat-digesting bile acids that come from the liver and live in the small intestine. When the bile acids break down the fat the vitamins are dissolved in, the vitamins move with the fat through the intestinal wall, into the body, and finally end up in the liver and in body fat, where they're stored until they're needed (much like fat).
The solubility properties of vitamins affect the way they are absorbed in the body. Vitamin B and C are water-soluble vitamins, so they are absorbed into the blood capillaries in the intestines. Then, they are transported via the portal vein to the liver before being distributed to other parts of the body. Vitamin A,D,E,K, on the other hand, are non-water-soluble but are fat-soluble instead. So, they are absorbed into the lacteal in the small intestines. This pathway is usually taken by fat to be absorbed into our bodies. So, these vitamins are actually in the fat absorbed by our intestines.
Doctor's Answer: Vitamins are classified as either fat soluble (vitamins A, D, E and K) or water soluble (vitamins B and C). This difference between the two groups is very important. It determines how each vitamin acts within the body. The fat soluble vitamins are soluble in lipids (fats). These vitamins are usually absorbed in fat globules (called chylomicrons) that travel through the lymphatic system of the small intestines and into the general blood circulation within the body. 
1 Nutrients are then absorbed through the wall of the small intestine. 2  Upon absorption, the fat-soluble vitamins enter the lymph vessels before making their way into the bloodstream. 3  In most cases, fat-soluble vitamins must be coupled with a protein in order to travel through the body. 1 Upon absorption, the fat-soluble vitamins enter the lymph vessels before making their way into the bloodstream. 2
1 The water-soluble vitamins (B vitamins and vitamin C) are absorbed easily along with the water in the small intestine, where they then travel through the body via the blood vessels. 2  Fat-soluble vitamins (vitamins A, D, and K) are absorbed just like the fat mentioned above. 1 There are two basic types of vitamins in the food we eat: water-soluble and fat-soluble. 2  The water-soluble vitamins (B vitamins and vitamin C) are absorbed easily along with the water in the small intestine, where they then travel through the body via the blood vessels.
1 The food is digested by stomach acid and then travels to the small intestine, where it is digested further. 2  Bile is needed for the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. 3  This substance, which is produced in the liver, flows into the small intestine, where it breaks down fats. 1 Upon absorption, the fat-soluble vitamins enter the lymph vessels before making their way into the bloodstream. 2  In most cases, fat-soluble vitamins must be coupled with a protein in order to travel through the body.
Digestion & Absorption of fat soluble vitamins. - In the small intestine fat soluble vitamins are transported into the intestinal cells as part of micelles. - Once inside the intestinal cells, fat-soluble vitamins are packaged with fat and other lipids into a chylomicron. 
1 Food containing fat-soluble vitamins is ingested. 2  The food is digested by stomach acid and then travels to the small intestine, where it is digested further. 3  Bile is needed for the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. 1 Upon absorption, the fat-soluble vitamins enter the lymph vessels before making their way into the bloodstream. 2  In most cases, fat-soluble vitamins must be coupled with a protein in order to travel through the body.
Water-soluble vitamins are found in many foods we eat, such as cereal grains, meat, poultry, eggs, fish, milk, legumes, citrus fruits and fresh vegetables. The B vitamins and vitamin C are absorbed along with water in the small intestine and then circulate through the blood. Water-soluble vitamins are packed into the watery portions of the foods you eat. They are absorbed directly into the bloodstream as food is broken down during digestion or as a supplement dissolves. Because much of your body consists of water, many of the water-soluble vitamins circulate easily in your body.