1 If the company charged 10% for their monthly fees, they would take $100 from your monthly rent. 2  At Desertwide.com, for example, the minimum monthly fee for property management services is $85 or 8% of the rental amount, whichever is higher. 1 At Desertwide.com, for example, the minimum monthly fee for property management services is $85 or 8% of the rental amount, whichever is higher. 2  An additional $495 is also required to pay for each new tenancy for advertising, lease-up referral commissions, photo tours, and move-in/move-out home inspections.
Related Ads. One of the biggest decisions you'll make as a landlord is whether you should hire a property management company. Many landlords manage properties on their own or with the help of an employee, such as a resident manager. 
How much does a property manager make in US, UK or Canada? Our property manager salary guide shall reveal the answers today. Enter your State or Zip Code in the Base Salary tab. 3. Select your Education Level (optional step). 4. Select the Number of Employees in your company (optional step). With Salary.com, you can dig up helpful and detailed information on the property manager earnings narrowed right down to the zip code.
Regional Salaries. Salaries for assistant property managers can vary by region. They earned average salaries between 35,000 and $47,000 per year in the northeast region, according to Indeed – with lows in Pennsylvania and highs in New York. In the south region, they earned lows of $34,000 in Louisiana and $47,000 in Mississippi. Salary and Qualifications. The average salary for an assistant property manager was $40,000 as of 2013, according to the job site Indeed. Like property managers, assistant property managers usually have bachelor's degrees in business, finance, real estate or public administration.
(Canada). A Property Manager in Vancouver, British Columbia earns an average salary of C$48,992 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
A Property Manager earns an average salary of C$49,333 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Real Estate and Budget Management. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Operations Management and Budget Management. For the first five to ten years in this position, salary increases steeply, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
- Full-time, Permanent. As a Property Manager in this company, you have the ability to move up quickly into other areas of interest. Property Manager – DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO.... WorkBC - 14 days ago-save job-more... Gulf Pacific Property Management is a full-service client centric, third party commercial property Management Company locally owned and operated from our head... Easily apply.