Piedmont Plateau, looking east from Rocky Ridge in Maryland, c. 1898. The Piedmont is a plateau region located in the eastern United States between the Atlantic Coastal Plain and the main Appalachian Mountains, stretching from New Jersey in the north to central Alabama in the south. The Piedmont province is a physiographic province of the larger Appalachian division. 
The Appalachian Region. The Appalachian Region, as defined in ARC's authorizing legislation, is a 205,000-square-mile region that follows the spine of the Appalachian Mountains from southern New York to northern Mississippi. It includes all of West Virginia and parts of 12 other states: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. Forty-two percent of the Region's population is rural, compared with 20 percent of the national population
Appalachia (/ˌaepəˈleɪtʃə/ ˌæpəˈleɪtʃə /or/) ˈaepəˈlaetʃə ˈæpəˈlætʃə is a cultural region In The Eastern united states that stretches From The southern Tier Of new york To, Northern, alabama Mississippi. and georgia Nevertheless, the number of farms in the Appalachian region continues to dwindle, plunging from 354,748 farms on 47 million acres (190,000 km 2) in 1969 to 230,050 farms on 35 million acres (140,000 km 2) in 1997.
The Valley and Ridge Region is west of the Blue Ridge Mountains. It consists of an area of flatter land called the Valley of Virginia, or the Great Valley, and a line of mountains known as the Allegheny Mountains. This line of mountains is also part of the Appalachian Mountain range.
Appalachian Folk Music. The Appalachian Mountains extend 1,500 miles from Maine to Georgia. They pass through 18 states and encompass the Green Mountains of New Hampshire and Vermont, the Berkshires of Connecticut, New York's Catskills, the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia, and the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee. 
Located. in the northwest corner of Georgia, Sand, Lookout, and Pigeon mountains belong to the geologic province known as the Appalachian, or Cumberland, Plateau. This plateau extends continuously from New York to Alabama and forms the western boundary of the Appalachian Mountains. 
They sweep from Newfoundland to Alabama. The Appalachian Mountains are made up of mountains, ridges, and valleys. The Great Smoky mountains are in this region. They run from Tennessee to North Carolina. The Blue Ridge mountains are the backbone of the system. They extend from Georgia to Pennsylvania. In the Appalachian mountains there is Mt. Mitchell. This is the highest mountain on the eastern coast. The name Appalachian comes from the Apalachee Indians.
The Blue Ridge, the Cumberland Plateau, and the Valley and Ridge are all part of the Appalachian Mountainsalso known as Appalachia. The part of Appalachia known as the Blue Ridge is technically called the Blue Ridge province, which should be distinguished from the Blue Ridge Mountains. The Blue Ridge province, which stretches from northern Georgia to southern Pennsylvania, contains many different mountain ranges
While the Appalachian Mountains stretch from Belle Isle in Canada to Cheaha Mountain in Alabama, the cultural region of Appalachia typically refers only to the central and southern portions of the range. Nevertheless, the number of farms in the Appalachian region continues to dwindle, plunging from 354,748 farms on 47 million acres (190,000 km 2) in 1969 to 230,050 farms on 35 million acres (140,000 km 2) in 1997.