HAWAII-Butterfly knife Butterfly knife or any type if Balisong knife are illegal to possess, sell, transfer, transport or manufacture. KANSAS-Gravity knives have legal restrictions on them in the state of Kansas. NEW YORK-The Balisong is not classified as a gravity knife in the state of New York. OREGON-Balisongs are illegal to carry concealed in the state of Oregon. Because it is considered a concealed weapon, the Butterfly knife Butterfly knife is illegal in the countries of Australia, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Germany and the Netherlands and some states within the United States of America. Angelina Jolie shows off her Butterfly Knife skills.
Use of a Butterfly knife Butterfly knife for a crime of any kind in Germany (or any illegal weapon) is punishable by 1-10 years in prison. LITHUANIA-Butterfly knife Butterfly knife, along with other knives are legal to carry and possess because they are not considered weapons. Switchblades, however, are considered a weapon and therefore are illegal. Australian legal definition: A flick knife (or other similar device) that has a blade which opens automatically by centrifugal force or gravity or by pressure applied to a spring, button or device in or attached to the handle of the Butterfly knife Butterfly knife.
In certain jurisdictions, butterfly knives are categorized as a gravity knife, switchblade, or dagger although they are also occasionally outlawed by name (butterfly knife).    The knife is illegal in California if blade length exceeds two inches.    In New York, the butterfly knife has been determined to not be a gravity knife.    In Pennsylvania, the butterfly knife is legal for conceal and open carrying. Many knives that fit in a pocket are, in fact,  illegal in some jurisdictions (e.g.: switch-blade knives -  butterfly knives/balisongs - 'gravity' knives [those that open at  the flick of your wrist] - etc).   Be careful-know the law of the location you are in
Butterfly knives, also known as Batangas knives or balisongs, are folding pocket knives that originated in the Philippines. Because of the dangerous qualities of the knives, they have been banned in many Western nations, including parts of the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and Germany. Significance. When butterfly knives are closed, their blades are completely concealed. They have two handles that counter-rotate around the tang that, when closed, cause the blades to be hidden in the handle grooves. Because of these factors, butterfly knives can practically be as strong as fixed blade knives
The knife is now illegal or restricted in many countries, often under the same laws and for the same reasons that switchblades are restricted, and in their country of origin they are no longer as common in urban areas as they were. Blunt versions of these knives are for sale to practice tricks with them. The balisong was commonly used by Filipino people, especially those in the Tagalog region, as a self-defense and pocket utility knife.
Answers. Best Answer: There is no federal law against butterfly knives. They are illegal in some states and big cities. Check with your local police or district attorney. If you don't want to attract their attention ask at a good knife or gun shop. They should know. What I don't understand is why you would want a butterfly knife. 
KANSAS-Gravity knives have legal restrictions on them in the state of Kansas. NEW YORK-The Balisong is not classified as a gravity knife in the state of New York. OREGON-Balisongs are illegal to carry concealed in the state of Oregon. Australian legal definition: A flick knife (or other similar device) that has a blade which opens automatically by centrifugal force or gravity or by pressure applied to a spring, button or device in or attached to the handle of the Butterfly knife Butterfly knife.