Continuing the garment manufacturing example, a process layout would group multiple sewing stations together for different clothing items in one area, then locate inspection, wrapping and packaging stations for different items together in different areas. Managers put different facilities design philosophies into practice to reduce waste, increase output and decrease the time and manpower required for each work task. Process layouts and product layouts are two popular facilities layout philosophies best suited to different production situations. Understanding the difference between process and product layout manufacturing can give you insight for structuring your own manufacturing operation
Difference between product and process risks. In practice, the differences between process risks and product risks are often unclear. It is therefore important for a test manager to make sure that the stakeholders understand the difference. The test process must result in an understanding of the (ongoing) product risks. Process risks represent a threat to achieving this result. Product risk. A product risk is the risk that the product does not live up to the expectations. Such expectations are rendered concrete by the functional and non functional requirements for a product. Process risk. A process risk is a risk related to the chance that the (execution of the) process (the test process in this case) does not live up to the expectation
Process control deals with the specific process algorithms, architecture, and mechanisms in engineering production to keep a specific output. Product control is used in banking at trade desks for doing accounting and reporting, monitoring, and maintaining the activities of trading portfolios. 
Difference between product quality & process quality. When we talk about software quality assurance, we often discuss process measurements, process improvements, productivity increase, quality improvement etc. And when we talk about quality improvement, mostly people think about product quality improvement. 
The product is something tangible that you get after going through a process. After doing some systems analysis work, the analyst will write a report. Doing the analysis is a process and the report is a product of that phase. Each product can be used as part of carrying out the next process. The analyst's report could be used as part of the design process. The resulting design, which is a product, is then used in writing the programs, which is another process.Thus there is no product that is not formed through a process.
Manufacturing companies put a lot of thought into the way their facilities are laid out. Strategic process selection and design are crucial to maximizing productivity and reducing costs in manufacturing operations. Managers put different facilities design philosophies into practice to reduce waste, increase output and decrease the time and manpower required for each work task. Process layouts and product layouts are two popular facilities layout philosophies best suited to different production situations. Understanding the difference between process and product layout manufacturing can give you insight for structuring your own manufacturing operation
Product layouts deployed on a large scale can require more space than process layouts, since tools and equipment cannot be shared as easily between workers performing the same tasks on different products. Managers put different facilities design philosophies into practice to reduce waste, increase output and decrease the time and manpower required for each work task. Process layouts and product layouts are two popular facilities layout philosophies best suited to different production situations. Understanding the difference between process and product layout manufacturing can give you insight for structuring your own manufacturing operation