Vegetables are important part of healthy eating and provide a source of many nutrients, including potassium, fiber, folate (folic acid) and vitamins A, E and C. Options like broccoli, spinach, tomatoes and garlic provide additional benefits, making them a superfood! Potassium may help to maintain healthy blood pressure. 
Fruits and vegetables provide a wealth of beneficial nutrients. Feasting on fruits and vegetables gives your body a wide range of nutrients, including as potassium, fiber, magnesium and vitamins A, C and K, among others. Dark Green Leafy Vegetables. Dark green leafy vegetables are nutritional powerhouses, bursting with nutrients such as folate, vitamins A, C and K, iron, calcium and fiber. Vitamin A helps your eyes adjust to light changes and plays a pivotal role in regulating your immune system.
Vegetables are the source of all the nutrients that a body needs to grow and survive. These nutrients become necessary in the growing up days which determine the scope of bodily health. Vegetables provide a complete list of nutrients such as vitamins, proteins, carbohydrates, minerals and more to our body. Hence you must do it in a healthy way by incorporating the nutrients in a balanced veggie diet.
1 Green beans are a good source of vitamin C, folic acid, iron, and potassium. 2  Dried beans provide protein, B vitamins, folic acid, iron, magnesium, and potassium. 3  Cabbage is high in vitamin C, folic acid, calcium, potassium, and fiber. 4  Carrots are rich in beta-carotene, vitamins A and K, and potassium. 1 Yellow corn is high in beta-carotene and lutein.* It also supplies B vitamins, iron, magnesium, potassium, and folic acid. 2  Eggplant is high in fiber, potassium, manganese, and vitamin B1. 3  Leeks are a good source of fiber, iron, and vitamins A and C, and they contain the cancer-fighting phytochemical diallyl sulfide.
All the B vitamins are in fruits and veggies(thiamine, niacin, riboflavin, folate, B6)Vit.C is in citrus fruits in large amounts and in other fruits and vegetables.(B and C are water soluble) Minerals are fund in both. You get dietary fiber from both. They also contain sugars and starch for energy. Best Answer: You need 3 to 5 servings of vegetables and 2 to 4 of fruit daily because they supply so much in nutrients. All of the vitamins are found in fruits and vegetables, A is fat soluble and found in dark colored veggies.
There are 6 classes of nutrients. Carbohydrates, Fats,Proteins,water, vitamins, and minerals. Vegetables provide Vitamin A,Vitamin C, Potassium,Folate,Magnesium,and Fiber, and for their lack of Cholesterol and fat. Fruits provide Vitamin A, Vitamin C,Potassium,and for their lack of Sodium,Fat, and Cholesterol. Best Answer: You need 3 to 5 servings of vegetables and 2 to 4 of fruit daily because they supply so much in nutrients. All of the vitamins are found in fruits and vegetables, A is fat soluble and found in dark colored veggies.
~~ Vegetables Chart ~~. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins
Vitamins. While iceberg lettuce is relatively low in nutrients, darker greens contain folate and vitamins A, C and K. The exact amount of vitamins depends on the type of green. A cup of raw kale will provide you with more than a day's worth of vitamins A, C and K, as well as a small amount of folate. Dark green leafy vegetables can also be good sources of calcium, iron and potassium. Each cup of raw kale provides 15 percent of the DV for calcium, 8 percent of the DV for iron and 14 percent of the DV for
The following is a list of resources that fruits and vegetables provide to the body: 1  Vitamins and minerals (including antioxidants, such as vitamin A, C, E and selium). 2  Vitamins and minerals are found in all foods, but fruits and vegetables are a particularly good source for some vitamins and minerals. 1 Vitamins and minerals (including antioxidants, such as vitamin A, C, E and selium). 2  Vitamins and minerals are found in all foods, but fruits and vegetables are a particularly good source for some vitamins and minerals. ( 3 See below for What vitamins and minerals do.).