Previcox for dogs is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication that is used to control inflammation and offer pain relief. This medication is commonly used for inflammation of osteoarthritis or when orthopedic surgery procedures are performed. 
Authorisation details. Previcox contains the active substance firocoxib, which belongs to a class of medicines having antiinflammatory action. Previcox is presented as chewable tablets for dogs (57 mg and 227 mg) and is also authorised as an oral paste for horses (8.2 mg/g). Previcox contains firocoxib, which belongs to a class of medicines called non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) belonging to the Coxib group, which acts by selective inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Coxibs display pain relief, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic properties.
Previcox is used for a relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis in dogs and for the alleviation of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and reduction of associated lameness in horses. Previcox contains firocoxib, which belongs to a class of medicines called non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) belonging to the Coxib group, which acts by selective inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Coxibs display pain relief, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic properties.
What is Previcox used for? Previcox is used for a relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis, soft-tissue, orthopaedic and dental surgery in dogs and for the alleviation of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and reduction of associated lameness in horses. Previcox contains firocoxib, which belongs to a class of medicines called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) belonging to the coxib group, which acts by selective inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2). Coxibs display pain relief, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic properties.
Previcox Chewable Tablets for Dogs is used for the control of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain and inflammation associated with soft-tissue and orthopedic surgery in dogs. Previcox Chewable Tablets contain firocoxib, a coxib-class, non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). The recommended dosage of Previcox Chewable Tablets is 2.27 mg/lb of body weight once daily. Previcox Chewable Tablets can be administered with or without food. Firocoxib.
What is the most important information I should know about Previcox: Previcox is a prescription medication that is FDA approved for use in dogs 7 weeks of age or older. Previcox is available as 57mg and 227mg Chewable, scored tablets. Previcox is a Cox-2 non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication used in dogs for the relief of pain and inflammation. Previcox requires a prescription from your veterinarian.
Previcox for dogs is a non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) for canines that weigh over 7 lbs. to help control pain and inflammation caused by osteoarthritis, joint abnormalities or soft-tissue surgery. Previcox is a chewable tablet that is easy to break apart for dosing needs. 
What is Previcox: Previcox (firocoxib) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Previcox works by reducing substances that cause pain, inflammation, and fever in the body. Previcox is used for the treatment of pain and inflammation as a result of osteoarthritis. Previcox is a Cox-2 non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication used in dogs for the relief of pain and inflammation. Previcox requires a prescription from your veterinarian.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Firocoxib (INN; brand names Equioxx and Previcox) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug of the COX-2 inhibitor (coxib) class, currently approved for use in dogs and horses. Firocoxib was the first COX-2 inhibitor approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for horses. Firocoxib is not intended or approved for use in human medicine.