History – Arawaks. History of the Arawak Amerindians, technology and culture. Historic perspective of the first settlers on Carriacou. How the Arawaks lived, about their beliefs and culture. Inventions and social organisation of the Arawak. History of the Arawaks
they had may similarities The Caribs were much more warlike than the Arawaks. The Caribs focused on making boats and weapons for war while the Arawaks strongest point was ag … riculture. The Arawaks were made of several tribes including Taino, Lucayan, Nepoya, Sepoya, and Igneri. They were peaceful people who grew crops and made pottery. They invented the hammock which the Spanish quickly adopted for use on their ships.
1 The Arawaks were a very gentle culture, they preferred negotiation and commercial exchange to war. 2  Their society was characterized by happiness, friendliness and a highly organized hierarchical, paternal society, and a lack of guile. 3  Each group was a small kingdom and the leader was called a cacique. History of the Arawaks Amerindians, technology and culture. Historic perspective of the first settlers on Carriacou. How the Arawaks lived, about their beliefs
1 The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And. 2  Cariban The kalinago pottery were not as sophisticated in ceramics as The. 3  Taino the cotton technology textiles of The kalinago were more.  advanced 1 The Caribs focused on making boats and weapons for war while the Arawaks strongest point was agriculture. 2  The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And.  cariban
1 The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And. 2  Cariban The kalinago pottery were not as sophisticated in ceramics as The.  taino 1 The Caribs focused on making boats and weapons for war while the Arawaks strongest point was agriculture. 2  The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And.  cariban
1 The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And.  cariban 1 The Caribs focused on making boats and weapons for war while the Arawaks strongest point was agriculture. 2  The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And.  cariban
1 The Caribs were much more warlike than the Arawaks. 2  The Caribs focused on making boats and weapons for war while the Arawaks strongest point was agriculture. 3  The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And.  cariban 1 The Caribs focused on making boats and weapons for war while the Arawaks strongest point was agriculture. 2  The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And.  cariban
The Caribs and Arawaks were both tribes that lived in the Caribbean region. The Arawaks were made of several tribes including Taino, Lucayan, Nepoya, Sepoya, and Igneri. They were peaceful people who grew crops and made pottery. They invented the hammock which the Spanish quickly adopted for use on their ships.
The cultures of the arawaks/Taino taíno and/Caribs kalinago were very; similar however they came from two language groups The arawakan And. Cariban The kalinago pottery were not as sophisticated in ceramics as The. taino The Arawaks were made of several tribes including Taino, Lucayan, Nepoya, Sepoya, and Igneri. They were peaceful people who grew crops and made pottery. They invented the hammock which the Spanish quickly adopted for use on their ships.