Simone is the daughter of Nina Simone and Andrew Stroud. She is married to Robert Kelly, with whom she has a daughter named ReAnna Simone Kelly. Both Simone and her daughter have appeared on Psychic Kids (Season 1 Episode 4), the Larry King Show, and the Tyra Banks Show. Lisa Celeste Stroud (born September 12, 1962), known by her stage name, Simone, is an American singer and actress, known for her work in the Broadway theatre field. She is the daughter of the late American vocalist and civil rights activist Nina Simone.
Soul. Of all the major singers of the late 20th century, Nina Simone was one of the hardest to classify. She recorded extensively in the soul, jazz, and pop idioms, often over the course of the same album; she was also comfortable with blues, gospel, and Broadway. Simone was not as well-served by her tenure with RCA in the late '60s and early '70s, another prolific period which saw the release of nine albums. These explored a less eclectic range, with a considerably heavier pop-soul base to both the material and arrangements.
The sixth child of a preacher's family in North Carolina, Simone aspired to be a concert pianist. Her musical path changed direction after she was denied a scholarship to the prestigious Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia, despite a well-received audition. Nina (from nina, niña 'meaning little' girl In) spanish was a nickname a boyfriend had given to, her And simone was taken from The french Actress Simone, signoret whom she had seen in the Movie casque'd. or
Nina Simone was born on February 21, 1933 in Tryon, North Carolina, USA as Eunice Kathleen Waymon. She was married to Andrew Stroud and Donald Ross. She died on April 21, 2003 in Carry-le-Rouet, Bouches-du-Rhone, Rhône. france Nina Simone was born on February 21, 1933 in Tryon, North Carolina, USA as Eunice Kathleen Waymon. She was married to Andrew Stroud and Donald Ross. She died on April 21, 2003 in Carry-le-Rouet, Bouches-du-Rhone, Rhône. France see full ». bio
Nina Simone was born Eunice Kathleen Waymon in Tryon, North Carolina on February 21, 1933. Her mother, Mary Kate Waymon, was a Methodist minister, and her father, John Divine Waymon, was a handyman who moonlighted as a preacher. Nina Simone was one of the most gifted vocalists of her generation, and also one of the most eclectic.
About Nina Simone. Of all the major singers of the late 20th century, Nina Simone was one of the hardest to classify. She recorded extensively in the soul, jazz, and pop idioms, often over the course of the same album; she was also comfortable with blues, gospel, and Broadway. Simone was not as well-served by her tenure with RCA in the late '60s and early '70s, another prolific period which saw the release of nine albums. These explored a less eclectic range, with a considerably heavier pop-soul base to both the material and arrangements.
Lisa Simone on Al Jazeera. Lisa Simone talks doc on Al Jazeera. Randall Pinkston talks to Lisa Simone Kelly about her film about her mother, the legendary Nina Simone in this exclusive video on Al Jazeera America. A NEW DAWN, A NEW DAY - Liz Garbus documentary What Happened, Miss Simone? puts fresh spotlight on Nina Simone. This documentary was authorized by Nina's estate and relied on personal accounts from Nina's family, friends, and band members.
Nina Simone (/ˈniːnə sɨˈmoʊn/ ; born Eunice Kathleen Waymon; February 21, 1933 – April 21, 2003) was an American singer, songwriter, pianist, arranger, and civil rights activist. She worked in a broad range of musical styles including classical, jazz, blues, folk, R&B, gospel, and pop. Nina (from nina, niña 'meaning little' girl In) spanish was a nickname a boyfriend had given to, her And simone was taken from The french Actress Simone, signoret whom she had seen in the Movie casque'd. or