A spider angioma is a dilated, small capillary. A spider angioma is a grouping of small blood vessels at the skin surface. The pattern sometimes resembles the threads of a spider's web. Overview. Spider angiomas are common in both children and adults. They appear more frequently during pregnancy, in people on birth control pills, or in people with liver disease
Alcohol is another important possible cause. In a study carried out among patients with alcoholic cirrhosis, it was found that alcoholism and impaired liver function are important predictors of the presence of spider angiomas in patients with liver cirrhosis. 
Spider angiomas are most often seen on the face or trunk, and they also may be seen on the hands, forearms, and ears. There may be one spider angioma or several. Each one is a small (1–10 mm) area of redness, which disappears with direct finger pressure but rapidly returns when the pressure is released. There is often a central red dot and small red lines radiating out from the center. Signs and Symptoms. A spider angioma is a grouping of small blood vessels at the skin surface. The pattern sometimes resembles the threads of a spider's web. Overview. Spider angiomas are common in both children and adults.
Spider nevus goes by several names: spider veins, spider angioma, nevus aranius, and vascular spider. A nevus is a collection of small, dilated arterioles (blood vessels) clustered very close to the surface of the skin. The cluster of vessels is web-like, with a central spot and radiating vessels; hence the name spider. Spider nevi can be caused by injuries, sun exposure, hormonal changes, or liver disease, but often the cause is unknown. For most people, the nevi are not a medical concern, but in some cases they may cause discomfort
BACKGROUND: Spider angioma is a common sign in patients with liver cirrhosis, but the pathogenesis is still unclear. Alcohol and hyperestrogenemia are both possible etiologies. CONCLUSIONS: Alcoholism and impaired liver function are important predictors of the presence of spider angiomas in patients with liver cirrhosis.
They are common and may be benign, presenting in around 10-15% of healthy adults and young children. However, having more than 3 spider angiomas is likely to be abnormal and may be a sign of liver disease. It also suggests the probability of esophageal varices. For spider angiomas on the face, techniques such as electrodesiccation and laser treatment can be used to remove the lesion. There is a small risk of a scar, although the results are generally good.
This study was designed to investigate the relationship of spider angiomas in patients with liver cirrhosis to alcohol, liver function test results, and plasma levels of sex hormones. CONCLUSIONS: Alcoholism and impaired liver function are important predictors of the presence of spider angiomas in patients with liver cirrhosis.
Spider angiomas are found only in the distribution of the superior vena cava, and are thus commonly found on the face, neck, upper part of the trunk, and arms. They may also be present on the backs of the hands and fingers in young children. For spider angiomas on the face, techniques such as electrodesiccation and laser treatment can be used to remove the lesion. There is a small risk of a scar, although the results are generally good.
For most people with spider nevus, the only symptom is the appearance of the vessel cluster. There may be a red dot in the center of a cluster of thin vessels, but this is not always the case. The thin vessels form a web-like shape and are red, blue, or purple in color. The cluster of vessels is web-like, with a central spot and radiating vessels; hence the name spider. Spider nevi can be caused by injuries, sun exposure, hormonal changes, or liver disease, but often the cause is unknown.
Spider angiomas (nevus araneus) are also associated with liver disease, liver failure, and cirrhosis. In fact, the spider angioma is rumored to have received its name from barmaids in New York, who used the lesion as a marker of liver disease in their customers. In pregnant women, palmar erythema may also be present. Spider angiomas are common in otherwise healthy children and are present in 10-15% of healthy adults and young children. International. The frequency of spider angiomas (nevus araneus) is presumed to be similar to that in the United States.