Meaning of Alyssa: Variant of ALICIA. The spelling has probably been influenced by that of the alyssum flower, the name of which is derived from Greek α “against” combined with λυσσα (lyssa) “madness, rabies”, since it was believed to cure madness. You are healthy, energetic, excitable, short-tempered, and stubborn. Meaning of the name Alyssa, analysis of the name Alyssa and so much more… What does Alyssa mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Alyssa. 2  Prononciation Of Alyssa. 3  The Meaning Of The Name Alyssa.
What does Alyssa mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Alyssa is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Alyssa is joy, great happiness. It is also of German origin, where its meaning is noble kind. View the Alyssa Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Alyssa has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Alyssa to other names. Variants of the name Alyssa include Alissa, Allissa. Alyssa has the diminutive (nickname) Lyssa.
Usage: Alyssa is a very popular first name. It is more often used as a girl (female) name. People having the name Alyssa are in general originating from France, Greece, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Alyssa across the world, see Alicia. The name Alyssa is ranked on the 419th position of the most used names. It means that this name is very frequently used. We estimate that there are at least 1556100 persons in the world having this name which is around 0.022% of the population.
Teutonic Meaning: The name Alyssa is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Alyssa is: Good humor. Greek Meaning: The name Alyssa is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Alyssa is: Rational. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. The name Alyssa is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Alyssa is: American Meaning: The name Alyssa is an American baby name. In American
Alyssa is very popular as a baby name for girls. The name's popularity increased from the 1960s up to the 1990s; before that, it was of very light use only. At the height of its usage in 1999, 0.722% of baby girls were named Alyssa. Its ranking then was #11. Alyssa is also a variant of the name Alicia (English, Latinized, Spanish, French, and Scandinavian) in the English language. Alyssa is also a variant of the name Alisa (German, English, Russian, Slavic, Armenian, and Hebrew) in the English and Hebrew languages.
[ 3 syll. a-lys-sa, al-y- ssa ] The baby girl name Alyssa is pronounced as aa-L IH SSaa- †. Alyssa is used chiefly in English and Hebrew, and its origin is Germanic and Hebrew. The spelling of the name could have been influenced by that of the Alyssum flower. In addition, Alyssa is a variant of Alice. Alyssa is also a variant of the name Alicia (English, Latinized, Spanish, French, and Scandinavian) in the English language. Alyssa is also a variant of the name Alisa (German, English, Russian, Slavic, Armenian, and Hebrew) in the English and Hebrew languages.