Energy is also relatively cheaper in Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and British Columbia. In general, one can assume that people are less wary of how much energy they use when it’s more affordable. That means they tend to use more energy when they live in a place where energy is produced.
Canadians use a lot of electricity. We consumed 508,336,000,000 kilowatt hours in 2007. The only countries that used more were the USA, China, Japan, Russia, India, and Germany, and they have much larger populations than we do!
Nuclear. Nuclear energy is part of Ontario’s balanced plan to make sure we have safe, clean, reliable and affordable electricity for years to come. Nuclear reactors, which produce heat by splitting uranium atoms, do the same job as typical power sources. They produce heat to change water into steam.
Ontario is Canada’s leader in clean wind energy with nearly 4,050 MW of installed capacity, supplying over five per cent of the province’s electricity demand. In 2012 – for the first time ever – more electricity was generated in Ontario using wind than coal. By the end of 2014, Ontario was the first jurisdiction in North America to eliminate coal as a source of electricity generation.
It is a completely sustainable and clean form of energy. It has the potential to provide a large amount of Ontario’s energy needs. Using the wind for local power generation is not new. In the 1930s more than 600,000 windmills were used in rural areas.
Nuclear energy is part of Ontario’s balanced plan to make sure we have safe, clean, reliable and affordable electricity for years to come. Nuclear reactors, which produce heat by splitting uranium atoms, do the same job as typical power sources. They produce heat to change water into steam.
Natural gas was the principal energy source for households in Alberta, accounting for 77% of their total energy use (Table 3-1). Natural gas made up 70% of household energy use in Saskatchewan, 58% in Ontario, 52% in British Columbia, and 49% in Manitoba. It is generally unavailable to most households east of Ontario.