Carrier. A person with one copy of a defective gene, who does not have the disease it causes, but can pass along the defective gene to offspring. CFTR. Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, the protein responsible for regulating chloride movement across cells in some tissues. The most severe effects of cystic fibrosis are seen in two body systems: the gastrointestinal (digestive) system, and the respiratory tract, from the nose to the lungs. CF also affects the sweat glands and male fertility. Symptoms develop gradually, with gastrointestinal symptoms often the first to appear
A defect in the CFTR gene causes cystic fibrosis (CF). This gene makes a protein that controls the movement of salt and water in and out of your body's cells. In people who have CF, the gene makes a protein that doesn't work well. This causes thick, sticky mucus and very salty sweat. Research suggests that the CFTR protein also affects the body in other ways. This may help explain other symptoms and complications of CF. More than a thousand known defects can affect the CFTR gene.
CF is caused by a faultin a gene called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. This gene makes a protein that controls the movement of salt and water in and out of cellsin the body. 
How to Use This Exploration. Cystic fibrosis is a fatal inherited disease of humans. Those who suffer from it secrete a thick mucus that clogs the passages of the lungs, pancreas, and liver. The result, when untreated, is fatal. Studying the disease, scientists have learned that the buildup of mucus is caused by a disruption of water balance in the body's cells. A mutation in the so-called cf gene (cf stands for cystic fibrosis) is the culprit, causing mucus buildup by preventing chloride ions from entering the cells. Chloride ions must pas through chloride channels in the cell membrane, channels which remain closed in individuals with cystic fibrosis. 
Certain mutations of the CFTR gene result in damage to the CFTR protein, which is then unable to carry out its function-transmembrane transport regulation. Cystic fibrosis disease (CF) is a result of the loss of this essential function. To begin to understand how a mutation in the CFTR gene can disrupt the proper functioning of the CFTR protein and lead to cystic fibrosis, let us examine the structure of CFTR.
Causes. In cystic fibrosis, a defect (mutation) in a gene changes a protein that regulates the movement of salt in and out of cells. The result is thick, sticky mucus in the respiratory, digestive and reproductive systems, as well as increased salt in sweat. Many different defects can occur in the gene. 
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease characterized by the buildup of thick, sticky mucus that can damage many of the body's organs. The disorder's most common signs and symptoms include progressive damage to the respiratory system and chronic digestive system problems. 
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease, meaning it is caused by a defect in the individual's genes. Genes control cell function by serving as the blueprint for the production of proteins. Proteins carry out a wide variety of functions within cells. The most severe effects of cystic fibrosis are seen in two body systems: the gastrointestinal (digestive) system, and the respiratory tract, from the nose to the lungs. CF also affects the sweat glands and male fertility. Symptoms develop gradually, with gastrointestinal symptoms often the first to appear
Cystic fibrosis causes thick and sticky mucous throughout the body, leading to serious, chronic and systemic health problems. Along with breathing and lung problems, bowel symptoms are a leading health complication related to cystic fibrosis. A distended, or swollen, abdomen is the result of severe constipation. In newborn infants, not passing their first bowel movement within 24 to 48 hours of birth is characteristic of cystic fibrosis. Children with untreated cystic fibrosis also show poor weight gain and growth.