A blood pressure reading appears as two numbers. The first and higher of the two is a measure of systolic pressure, or the pressure in the arteries when the heart beats and fills them with blood. The second number measures diastolic pressure, or the pressure in the arteries when the heart rests between beats. 
1 The top number is your systolic blood pressure. 2  The bottom number is your diastolic blood pressure. 3  For instance, a systolic pressure of 130 and a diastolic pressure of 75 is written as 130/75 and read as 130 over 75. The top number, or systolic pressure, is the measurement of the pressure of the blood in your arteries when your heart contracts, or beats, and is forcing blood out to the rest of your body.
Measuring blood pressure is quick and painless. Usually, the procedure involves using either a sphygmomanometer or a blood pressure machine. Blood pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mmHg) and recorded as two numbers -- systolic pressure over diastolic pressure. For example, the doctor or nurse might say 130 over 80 as a blood pressure reading. This is written as 130/80. 
Blood pressure (BP) is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels. When used without further specification, blood pressure usually refers to the arterial pressure in the systemic circulation. It is usually measured at a person's upper arm. Blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic (maximum) pressure over diastolic (minimum) pressure and is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). It is one of the vital signs along with respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature. 
Blood pressure is measured with a simple, painless test using a blood pressure cuff -- doctors call it a sphygmomanometer. It consists of a small pressure gauge that is attached to a cuff. The inflatable cuff is wrapped around your upper arm. Some blood pressure cuffs wrap around the forearm or wrist. When this noise goes away, that indicates the diastolic blood pressure. The systolic blood pressure number is always said first, and then the diastolic blood pressure number is given. For example, your blood pressure may be read as 120 over 80 or written as 120/80. Blood pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg)
Diastolic pressure is the minimum pressure in the arteries and occurs when the lower part of the heart relaxes. Normal blood pressure is less than 120 (systolic) over 80 (diastolic), typically written as 120/80 mm Hg (read 120 over 80 millimeters of mercury). How Blood Pressure Is Measured. Blood pressure is expressed as 2 numbers. These numbers represent the pressure against the walls of your blood vessels as the blood moves through them. Systolic pressure is when pressure is highest in the arteries and occurs when the lower part of the heart contracts.
1 For instance, a systolic pressure of 130 and a diastolic pressure of 75 is written as 130/75 and read as 130 over 75. 2  Blood pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury, shown as mm Hg. 3  Your healthcare provider will probably take at least two readings separated by 2 minutes. The top number, or systolic pressure, is the measurement of the pressure of the blood in your arteries when your heart contracts, or beats, and is forcing blood out to the rest of your body.
Blood pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) and recorded with the systolic number first, followed by the diastolic number. For example, a normal blood pressure would be recorded as something under 120/80 mm Hg. Blood pressure readings can be affected by factors like: 1  Smoking. When you visit your health care provider, a blood pressure measurement is one of the most important routine tests you’ll have. Blood pressure is the force exerted by your blood against your arteries. As your heart pumps, it forces blood out through arteries that carry the blood throughout your body.
Blood pressure is measured using two numbers. The first number, called systolic blood pressure, measures the pressure in your blood vessels when your heart beats. The second number, called diastolic blood pressure, measures the pressure in your blood vessels when your heart rests between beats. A blood pressure less than 120/80 mmHg is normal. A blood pressure of 140/90 mmHg or more is too high. People with levels in between 120/80 and 140/90 have a condition called prehypertension, which means they are at high risk for high blood pressure.