1 Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 5  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 6  Season with salt and pepper. 1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes
Published on Sep 1, 2012. Get the top-rated recipe @ http://allrecipes.com/recipe/baked-sa... Here's a simple, healthy, and delicious way to prepare baked salmon filets. Combine the salmon with olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, and herbs. So easy, it will make a believer out of folks who think they don't like salmon. Facebook.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
Season each Salmon filet with salt and pepper, place 2 lemon slices and 4 garlic slices on each filet. Drizzle each with olive oil and finish with a splash of wine. Wrap as directed in the video and bake for 25 minutes, if using 5ox filets, bake for 20 minutes. Allow fish to cool after removing from oven for 1 minute, unwrap and serve with brown rice or roasted potaoes.
1 Marinate in the refrigerator about 1 hour, turning occasionally. 2  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 3  Place fillets in aluminum foil, cover with marinade, and seal. 4  Place sealed salmon in the glass dish, and bake 35 to 45 minutes, until easily flaked with a fork. 1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  Place fillets in aluminum foil, cover with marinade, and seal. 3
In this video, you’ll learn how to cook salmon in the oven. We’ll show you how to choose and prepare and season salmon fillets. You’ll see why center cuts of salmon make the best, most tender fillets for cooking and learn how to bake salmon so you get a crisp, flavorful crust without overcooking the fish. It’s simple! 
1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  Place fillets in aluminum foil, cover with marinade, and seal. 3  Place sealed salmon in the glass dish, and bake 35 to 45 minutes, until easily flaked with a fork. 1 Place fillets in aluminum foil, cover with marinade, and seal. 2
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum baking time. 