He was wrong and, less than six years later, Mexico would cede California to the United States nine days after the largest gold strike in history. THE GOLD RUSH: James Marshall discovered gold at Sutter's Mill on the American River near Coloma, California, on January 24, 1848. He reported the find to his partner, John Sutter, on January 28, 1848. Even though Sutter and Marshall tried to keep the discovery a secret, word began to leak out within a few days
The California Gold Rush (1848–1855) was a period in American History which began on January 24, 1848, when gold was found by James W. Marshall at Sutter's Mill in Coloma, California. 's National Museum of the American Indian, the California Gold Rush was a cause of a major, but little known, genocide on the Native Americans. The Native Americans resided in The Great Basin, east of the Sierra Nevada and west of the Rocky Mountains, which supported Native American people for more than 14,000 years.
When the Gold Rush began, the California goldfields were peculiarly lawless places. When gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill, California was still technically part of Mexico, under American military occupation as the result of the Mexican–American War. 's National Museum of the American Indian, the California Gold Rush was a cause of a major, but little known, genocide on the Native Americans. The Native Americans resided in The Great Basin, east of the Sierra Nevada and west of the Rocky Mountains, which supported Native American people for more than 14,000 years.
Miners extracted more than 750,000 pounds of gold during the California Gold Rush. Just days after Marshall’s discovery at Sutter’s Mill, the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was signed, ending the Mexican-American War and leaving California in the hands of the United States. The Gold Rush undoubtedly sped up California’s admission to the Union as the 31st state. In late 1849, California applied to enter the Union with a constitution preventing slavery, provoking a crisis in Congress between proponents of slavery and abolitionists.
Some failed, some were successful, but nearly all of the prospectors faced severe hardships during their fortune-hunting days. Today, 165 years after that first discovery check out eight facts you may not know about the California Gold Rush. 1. California did not have the first gold rush in American history. That honor actually belongs to North Carolina. Fifty years before gold was discovered at Sutter’s mill, the first gold rush in American history got underway after a 17-pound gold nugget was found in Cabarrus County, North Carolina. 
Charles Drayton Gibbes, A New Map of the Gold. Region in California, 1851, Harvard Map Collection. The great California gold rush began on January 24, 1848, when James W. Marshall discovered a gold nugget in the American River while constructing a sawmill for John Sutter, a Sacramento agriculturalist. In addition to massive emigration from the eastern US, the California gold rush triggered a global emigration of ambitious fortune-seekers from China, Germany, Chile, Mexico, Ireland, Turkey, and France.
The California Gold Rush (1848-1855) began on January 24, 1848, when gold was found by James W. Marshall at Sutter's Mill in Coloma, California. Soon it was leaked that gold was found. Sutter tried to stop it from getting out but a San Francisco newspaper had a headline about the discovery and soon 10,000 a day were arriving in the area. Over 300,000 people came to the state in the two years after the news.
One of the most monumental events in the history of the United States was the Californian Gold Rush. It played a huge impact on populations in California and the surrounding areas. It was the discovery of gold by James Marshall in Coloma in 1848 that started the whole thing. 
He found gold flakes in the traces of the saw mill. Soon it was leaked that gold was found. Sutter tried to stop it from getting out but a San Francisco newspaper had a headline about the discovery and soon 10,000 a day were arriving in the area. Over 300,000 people came to the state in the two years after the news. CA became a state in 1850 and Sutter lost everything
The California Gold Rush began at Sutter's Mill, near Coloma. On January 24, 1848, James W. Marshall, a foreman working for Sacramento pioneer John Sutter, found shiny metal in the tailrace of a lumber mill Marshall was building for Sutter on the American River. 's National Museum of the American Indian, the California Gold Rush was a cause of a major, but little known, genocide on the Native Americans. The Native Americans resided in The Great Basin, east of the Sierra Nevada and west of the Rocky Mountains, which supported Native American people for more than 14,000 years.