Now adjust tuning on the E (second) string until the two notes sound the same. Using your freshly tuned E string, you can now tune your lowest string-the G string. To do that, hold down and play the third fret of the second (E) string on the ukulele, and tune your open fourth
Also known as a chromatic tuner, this is the easiest way to tune your Ukulele. It is a kind of device that automatically detects the pitch of your string. It has a small screen that will show what pitch are you at and you just have to adjust the string accordingly until you get the sound right.
If you wish to tune by ear, you can use our online ukulele tuner as a reference. Simply play the note you want to tune from our ukulele tuner and then pluck that string on your ukulele. As both sounds are ringing, if the note is out of tune, you should hear a wavy or warbly noise between the two sounds.
2. Locate the tuning pegs. To refer to the strings on your ukulele correctly, hold it with the fret board pointing up. The lower left of the 4 tuning pegs tunes the G string, the peg above it tunes the C string, the upper right peg tunes the E string, and the peg below it tunes the A string.
Choose a reference instrument to tune your ukulele to. The easiest way to tune your ukulele is to tune its strings to match the pitch of another musical instrument. You have several options: a piano, an online tuner, an electronic tuner, or a pipe tuner.
Check out our old ukulele tuner. How to Use this Tuner: To the right there is an image that explains the numbering of the strings on an ukulele. Click on the note for the string you want to tune and then turn the tuning pegs on your ukulele and match it up with the note that is being played.
You can use this tool as a point of reference for tuning your ukulele. If you just want to tune your ukulele to normal or standard tuning, make sure “Standard Tuning (gCEA)” is selected on the tuner. We’ll tune the ukulele’s top string first. Turn the black switch “on” under the “ G ” note to hear the pitch.