Your niche is the service you specialise in offering to your target market. For example various design businesses can have creative freelancers as their client group: a design company can offer them web design and app development, another company can offer them branding advice or photography. However, it is important to understand that there is a difference between your niche and your target market: Your target market is the specific group of people you work for e.g. women in the City, dog owners, creative female freelancers, ceramic collectors, brides to be, outdoor galleries.
Niche Marketing is all about finding a smaller segment of a market and creating a product or a service for that market. In general a niche is a very targeted and focused market. An example of a market is pets, whereas an example of a niche market could be tropical aquarium fish or Golden Retriever dogs. Niche marketing is a great way to get started making money online, particularly if you focus in on a niche that you are interested or knowledgeable in.
The word niche comes from a French word that means to nest. Niche marketing is targeting a product or service to a small portion of a market that is not being readily served by the mainstream product or service marketers. Nearly every business—fast food chains, convenience stores, even Wal-Mart was begun to fill perceived voids in the market place. 
What Is Niche Marketing. Niche Marketing can refer to both marketing and business choice. In and of itself, niche marketing refers to finding a segment of the general market for a service or product line. One then develops a solution for the needs of that segment and then markets to it to get the word out. Let s take a look at an example using one of the biggest companies in the world. You will hear over and over that the quickest way to find success on the net is niche marketing. I second this advice.
Image (c) Eileen Bach / Getty Images. Definition: A niche market is a focused, targetable portion of a market. By definition, then, a business that focuses on a niche market is addressing a need for a product or service that is not being addressed by mainstream providers. You can think of a niche market as a narrowly defined group of potential customers. 
Niche marketing is sometimes a misunderstood term. Basically, niche marketing refers to competing within a narrowly defined market segment with a specialized offering. In essence, the firm virtually becomes a ‘big fish in a small pond’. 
You can try for niche marketing if you think that you really need your product to go out to one small demographic. 7 people found this helpful. Me and my business partner practiced niche marketing and concentrated all of our efforts on a small percentage of the population. 8 people found this helpful. You may want to target a specific group of people for your product by using a specialized niche marketing plan. Concentrating all marketing efforts on a small but specific and well defined segment of the population. Niches do not 'exist' but are 'created' by identifying needs, wants, and requirements that are being addressed poorly or not at all by other firms, and developing and delivering goods or services to satisfy them.