'The modern era of laboratory cloning began in 1958 when F.C. Steward cloned carrot plants from mature single cells placed in a nutrient culture containing hormones. The first cloning of animal cells took place in 1964.'. Yeah but it has been going on before that. Dolly was the the name of the Sheep that was the first mammal ever cloned, but the first animal ever cloned was a tadpole. And I don't know if they named it or not. That was b … ack in 1952. Dewey(Deer).
The first animal ever cloned was a tadpole, back in 1952.   Dolly was the name of the sheep that was the first mammal ever cloned. It was in 1996, presented to the world in … 1997. Dolly was the the name of the Sheep that was the first mammal ever cloned, but the first animal ever cloned was a tadpole. And I don't know if they named it or not. That was b … ack in 1952. Dewey(Deer).
As the list of successfully cloned animals grew, scientists began to explore cloning as a way to create animals belonging to endangered or extinct species. A challenge to cloning endangered and extinct species is finding closely related animals to serve as egg donors and surrogates. All previous cloning experiments used donor nuclei from cells in early embryos. In this experiment, the donor nuclei came from a slightly different source: cultured sheep cells, which were kept alive in the laboratory.
1 The first cloned mammal successfully produced using a cell taken from another animal was ‘Dolly the sheep’ - born in 1996. 2  The growing list of species to have now been cloned includes mice, pigs, goats, dogs, cats, horses and mules. 3  Fewer than five per cent of cloned embryos usually survive to birth. 1 Read our submission to the European Food Safety Authority (on behalf of Eurogroup for Animals): The impact of cloning on animal welfare (2008) (PDF 50.4KB) . 2  See our submission to the UK Food Standards Agency: Cloning animals for food (2008) (PDF 108KB) .
Cloning animals started way back in the 1950s when the first frogs were reproduced. In 1996 British scientists cloned the first mammal, a sheep called Dolly. Since then the cloning of mice, cattle, cats and other mammals has been successful. 
Dolly the sheep, the first mammal cloned from a somatic (body) cell, came into the world innocent as a lamb. However, soon after the announcement of her birth in February 1997 (Wilmut et al., 1997) she caused panic and controversy. Nuclear transfer can also be done using a donor cell from an embryo instead of from an organism after birth. Cloning mammals using embryonic cells has been successful since the mid-1980s (for a history of cloning, see Wilmut et al., 2001).
1951 was when the first successful clone of a frog egg was created, though some early attempts at cloning in the 1800's were made. Hans Dreisch was the man in the late 1800's to conduct attempts at cloning a sea urchin. People who are identical twins are a form of clones, too! Man-made Clones Nearly 50 years ago, scientists made the first animal clones by splitting frog embryos. In 1996 the first mammal was cloned in Scotland-a sheep named Dolly.. Since then, scientists have successfully cloned other mammals. These include cows, pigs, a cat, and the first equine, a mule named Idaho Gem, was cloned at the University of Idaho in 2003. Cloning an adult animal is a big deal
Technique. The principle of cloning is relatively simple. The chromosomes of a cell from the donor animal are transferred into the cytoplasm of an egg, and the egg is signaled to develop an embryo. The cells from the donor animal are typically grown from a small sample of subcutaneous connective tissue. 
The cloning process usually involves removing genetic information, known as DNA, from a cell taken from one animal and placing this into an unfertilised egg that has had its own DNA removed. This egg is then artificially stimulated to start developing into an embryo and placed into a surrogate mother. 1 Read our submission to the European Food Safety Authority (on behalf of Eurogroup for Animals): The impact of cloning on animal welfare (2008) (PDF 50.4KB) . 2  See our submission to the UK Food Standards Agency: Cloning animals for food (2008) (PDF 108KB) .