1 To understand when marketing research is not needed. 2  To understand the difference between the “problem” and the “research objective”. 3  To know the importance of properly defining the problem. 4  To appreciate a process for defining the problem and research objectives including knowing the varied sources of problems. 1 To understand the difference between the “problem” and the “research objective”. 2  To know the importance of properly defining the problem. 3
This formal study, whether performed internally or externally, is called marketing research. The marketing research process consists of four steps: defining the problem and research objectives, developing the research plan, implementing the research plan, and interpreting and reporting the findings. 
1 To gain insights into marketing research by learning the steps in the marketing research process. 2  To understand when marketing research is not needed. 3  To understand the difference between the “problem” and the “research objective”. 4  To know the importance of properly defining the problem. 1 To understand the difference between the “problem” and the “research objective”. 2  To know the importance of properly defining the problem. 3  To appreciate a process for defining the problem and research objectives including knowing the varied sources of problems.
The figure below breaks the process down into six steps: The Market Research Process. Step 1. Define the Objective & Your “Problem”. Perhaps the most important step in the market research process is defining the goals of the project. In this step of the market research process, it’s time to design your research tool. If a survey is the most appropriate tool (as determined in step 2), you’ll begin by writing your questions and designing your questionnaire.
1 To appreciate a process for defining the problem and research objectives including knowing the varied sources of problems. 2  To understand the role of symptoms in problem recognition. 3  To realize that problems occur when management must make a decision and that decisions are statements of decision alternatives. 1 To understand the difference between the “problem” and the “research objective”. 2  To know the importance of properly defining the problem. 3 
The marketing research problem guides the entire research process. It is important in determining the working hypothesis. With the hypothesis and the research problem, you are able to outline what is to be achieved after the research which is commonly referred to as the objectives in the research world. Before you state the marketing research problem, you also need to observe and establish the effects of the problem in the entire marketing process.
Step 1: Problem Definition The first step in any marketing research project is to define the problem. In defining the problem, the researcher should take into account the purpose of the study, the relevant background information, what information is needed, and how it will be used in decision-making. 
Thus, marketing research may also be described as the systematic and objective identification, collection, analysis, and dissemination of information for the purpose of assisting management in decision making related to the identification and solution of problems and opportunities in marketing. Consumer marketing research is a form of applied sociology that concentrates on understanding the preferences, attitudes, and behaviors of consumers in a market-based economy, and it aims to understand the effects and comparative success of marketing campaigns.
Stage 1: Formulating the Marketing Research Problem. Formulating a problem is the first step in the research process. In many ways, research starts with a problem that management is facing. This problem needs to be understood, the cause diagnosed, and solutions developed. However, most management problems are not always easy to research. A management problem must first be translated into a research problem.