The finished display version of iceman Otzi on October 1, 1997 in Paris, France. Otzi is the name given to the frozen mummy of a man from around 3300BC, found by two German tourists in 1991 in the Schnastal glacier in the Oztal Alps. Patrick Landmann / Getty Images
Otzi the Iceman, also called Similaun Man, Hauslabjoch Man or even Frozen Fritz, was discovered in 1991, eroding out of a glacier in the Italian Alps near the border between Italy and Austria. Otzi is the name given to the frozen mummy of a man from around 3300BC, found by two German tourists in 1991 in the Schnastal glacier in the Oztal Alps.
The above map shows the location of the discovery site of Otzi the Iceman. In terms of geography Otzi was found in the Alps. In terms of modern political geography he was found just inside the Italian border with Austria and not too far from Switzerland. 
A new genetic analysis reveals that Otzi the Iceman is most closely related to modern-day Sardinians. | Reconstruction by Kennis © South Tyrol Museum of A. Ötzi ötzi The, iceman a stunningly preserved mummy found in The Italian alps in, 1991 has living relatives in the, region new genetic analysis. shows Ötzi'ötzi s. Ötzi oetzi ötzi may be the-most Well studied neolithic man. Ever discovered he was astonishingly well preserved when he was uncovered Ötztal The, oetztal ötztal alps, and since then scientists have scrutinized his clothes and. Probed his body They found the iceman, had tooth decay ate an agricultural Diet and. had lyme disease
[ˈoetsi]. ; ˈœtsi also Ötzi oetzi ötzi, the Iceman The, similaun Man the Man, from Hauslabjoch The, Tyrolean iceman, homo tyrolensis And the) hauslabjoch mummy is-a well preserved natural mummy of a man who 3,300 AROUND, 3300 bce more precisely between 3359 AND, 3105 bce witha 66 % chance that he died between 3239 AND. 3105 bce The mummy was found in September 1991 in the Ötztal ötztal, alps hence the Ötzi, oetzi ötzi Near the similaun Mountain and hauslabjoch on the Border between Austria. and italy
Otzi The Iceman. Otzi The Iceman. Otzi. also called Otzi the Iceman, the Similaun Man, the Man from Hauslabjoch, Homo tyrolensis, and the Hauslabjoch mummy, is a well-preserved natural mummy of a man who lived around 3,300 BCE. Otzi was discovered in Europe 1991 in the Otztal Alps on the Austrian-Italian border. 
| AFP via Getty Images. Researchers in Italy announced this week that they had discovered a strange new tattoo on the ribcage of the 5,300-year-old mummy known as Ötzi ötzi The. Iceman the find raises to 61 the number Ötzi'oetzi ötzi s, known tattoos and it came as a. big surprise Researchers in Italy announced this week that they had discovered a strange new tattoo on the ribcage of the 5,300-year-old mummy known as Ötzi ötzi The. iceman
When the Iceman was discovered in 1991, x-rays and CAT-scans of the corpse revealed that his internal organs had shrunken so drastically in the 5,300 years in the glacier that Dr. Dieter Zur Nedden, the radiologist who examined the images, could barely distinguish them. 
The mummy was found in September 1991 in the Ötztal ötztal, alps hence the Ötzi, oetzi ötzi Near the similaun Mountain and hauslabjoch on the Border between Austria. And italy He'is europe s oldest known natural, human mummy and has offered an unprecedented View Of. chalcolithic europeans The mummy was found in September 1991 in the Ötztal ötztal, alps hence the Ötzi, oetzi ötzi Near the similaun Mountain and hauslabjoch on the Border between Austria. and italy
Photograph by Robert Clark, National Geographic A report that Ötzi ötzi The iceman has 19 genetic relatives living In austria is the latest in a string of surprising discoveries surrounding the famed ice. Ötzi'oetzi 5,300-s-5300 year old corpse turned up on the mountain Border between Austria and italy. in 1991 4. The Iceman was inked. Ötzi'ötzi s frozen mummy preserves a fine collection Of Copper age. Tattoos numbering over 50 in, total they cover him from head to. Foot these'weren t produced using a, needle but by making fine cuts in the skin and then rubbing in. charcoal