Report Abuse. That depends on your cat. Like the average weight of a female person is 160 lbs-doesn't make you underweight if you weigh 150 lbs and are 5' tall, and doesn't make you overweight if you are 165 and 6' tall. You should be able to easily feel your cats ribs and see the tuck in of their abdomen when they stand.
With an animal as small as a cat, even a couple of pounds of extra weight can make a big difference in its overall health. If you are concerned, it is always best to check with your veterinarian. 1  Domestic cat: 8-10 lbs. 2  Persian: 7-12 lbs. 3  Siamese: 5-10 lbs. 4  Maine coon: 10-25 lbs. If you think there's a possibility that your cat might be overweight, he probably is. Schedule a visit with your veterinarian as soon as possible. They can confirm your cat's weight issue and help you formulate a plan to get him back on track. He'll also confirm that your cat is healthy enough to begin a diet.
The proper weight for a cat can vary widely, depending on the cat's build. My four normal-weight cats range from 6.5 pounds up to 14 pounds. Some large-breed cats such as Maine Coons can weigh 24 pounds and be normal, though most domestic cats would be obese at that weight. That depends on your cat. Like the average weight of a female person is 160 lbs-doesn't make you underweight if you weigh 150 lbs and are 5' tall, and doesn't make you overweight if you are 165 and 6' tall. You should be able to easily feel your cats ribs and see the tuck in of their abdomen when they stand.
On average, a healthy weight for a cat varies from as low as 5 pounds for a Siamese, to as high as 25 pounds for a Maine Coon. Indoor cats can pack on a few more pounds than their outdoor counterparts, because it doesn't take much cunning or athletic dexterity to sneak up on their food dishes. Saying all cats should weigh X amount is like saying all cars should get X miles to the gallon. Certain factors affect a cat's ideal weight, including whether they're spayed or neutered, their breed and their overall health.
Hi, The average weight for an adult cat is 8-10 pounds. Males tend to weigh more than females. It is entirely possible that your cat shouldn't be in this weight range though. It depends a lot on how the cat is built. Some cats weigh 5 pounds while others weigh 14 pounds, and don't have any fat on them at all.
While the weight of a cat varies by breed, male cats average  between 4.5 to 6.8 kilograms. Female cats weigh between 2.7 to 4.5  kilograms. The colour of the cat's coat does not depict its overall shape and weight. The average weight of a cat is usually about 8 - 16 pounds. Cats average about 23 - 25cm in height … and 46cm in body length, not including the tail. 3 people found this useful.
Best Answer: There isn't an average weight. Females weigh less than males for the most part as they are smaller, like human females. I do think that a healthy male cat weighs between 9-13 lbs. and a female 6-9. Maine Coons are the largest cat breed and they will weigh more than most cats. That depends on your cat. Like the average weight of a female person is 160 lbs-doesn't make you underweight if you weigh 150 lbs and are 5' tall, and doesn't make you overweight if you are 165 and 6' tall. You should be able to easily feel your cats ribs and see the tuck in of their abdomen when they stand.
The average weight of a cat is 4 kilograms, but of course this varies from cat to cat, as every cat has a different body size and shape. While the weight of a cat varies by breed, male cats average  between 4.5 to 6.8 kilograms.
The average weight of a cat is usually about 8 - 16 pounds. Cats average about 23 - 25cm in height … and 46cm in body length, not including the tail. The colour of the cat's coat does not depict its overall shape and weight. The average weight of a cat is usually about 8 - 16 pounds. Cats average about 23 - 25cm in height … and 46cm in body length, not including the tail. 3 people found this useful.