Its location near a plate boundary affects the kind of bedrock it has. Under Mount Rainier, there is igneous rock that formed from lava and magma in the Tertiary period, which was between 65 and 1.8 million years ago, intruded by the granodiorite and quartz mononite of Tatoosh pluton. Mount Rainier formed along a convergent tectonic plate boundary, where the denser oceanic crust of the Juan de Fuca plate is subducted under the less dense continental crust of the North American plate.
It is on a convergent plate boundry forming a subduction zone which build pressure in the volcano causing them to erupt. Transform boundary: when two plates grind past each other. Convergent boundary: when the two plates collide. Divergent boundary: when the two plates move apar
Mount Hood is part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc, which formed as a  result of the convergent boundary between the North American Plate  and the Juan de Fuca Plate. Edit. Transform boundary: when two plates grind past each other. Convergent boundary: when the two plates collide. Divergent boundary: when the two plates move apar
Quick Facts. Mount Hood volcano, Oregon's highest peak, forms a prominent backdrop to the state's largest city, Portland, and contributes valuable water, scenic, and recreational resources that help sustain the agricultural and tourist segments of the economies of surrounding cities and counties. 
Mount Hood (45.4N, 121.7W) is the tallest mountain in Oregon (11,237 feet, 3,426 m) and popular with skiers, hikers, and climbers. It is 45 miles (75 km) east-southeast of Portland, Oregon. Mount Hood is a stratovolcano made of lava flows, domes, and volcaniclastic deposits. Most of the volcano is andesite composition. The main cone of Mount Hood formed about 500,000 years ago. In the last 15,000 years the volcano has had four eruptive periods.
In the recent past, Mount Hood has had two significant eruptive periods, one about 1,500 years ago and the other about 200 years ago. Subduction of the Juan de Fuca Plate under the North American Plate controls the distribution of earthquakes and volcanoes in the Pacific Northwest. Mount Hood is just one of several recently active, major volcanic centers in the Cascade Range. Throughout Mount Hood's history, rapid landslides, called debris avalanches, of various sizes have occurred. The largest ones removed the summit and sizable parts of the volcano's flanks and formed lahars that flowed to the Columbia River.
This is a convergent boundary where two continental tectonic plates (the Indian and Eurasian plates) are colliding forming the mountain chain known as the Himalayas (of which … Mt Everest is a part) as well as the Tibetan plateau. Please see the related links. 31 people found this useful. Mount fuji was formed from tectonic plates in the earth.    lIt does not lie on a plate boundary but it lies near where the Pacific plate, Philippine plate and Eurasian p … late meet.
Mount Hood's last major eruption occurred in the 1790's not long before Lewis and Clark's expedition to the Pacific Northwest. In the mid-1800's, local residents reported minor explosive activity, but since that time the volcano has been quiet. Someday, however, Mount Hood will erupt again. Throughout Mount Hood's history, rapid landslides, called debris avalanches, of various sizes have occurred. The largest ones removed the summit and sizable parts of the volcano's flanks and formed lahars that flowed to the Columbia River.