Ecclesiastes is a treatise presented as an autobiography of Koheleth.. Koheleth's story is framed by voice of the narrator, who refers to Koheleth in the third person, praises his wisdom, but reminds the reader that wisdom has its limitations and is not man's main concern. It is among the canonical Wisdom Books in the Old Testament of most denominations of Christianity. The title Ecclesiastes is a Latin transliteration of the Greek translation of the Hebrew Koheleth (meaning Gatherer, but traditionally translated as Teacher or Preacher), the pseudonym used by the author of the book. The book is an anonymous treatise, probably composed in the last part of the 3rd century BCE
THE BOOK OF ECCLESIASTES. The Hebrew name of this book and of its author, Qoheleth, is actually a title, and it perhaps means “assembler” (of students, listeners) or “collector” (of wisdom sayings). The book’s more common name, Ecclesiastes, is an approximate translation into Greek of this Hebrew word. 
The Book of Ecclesiastes states it was written by Qoheleth, but this name is always translated into English as 'Preacher' or 'Ecclesiastes' and, instead, the book is traditionally attributed to King Solomon. Solomon is the most likely author of the book. Firstly, the author says he is the son of David who was a king of Jerusalem. Secondly, it is consistent from what is known of Solomon in that he was given to wisdom, insight, and reflection.
About 935 BC. Ecclesiastes was written for ancient Israelites and all later Bible readers. One of the Bible's Wisdom Books, Ecclesiastes is a series of reflections by the Teacher on his life, which was lived in the ancient united kingdom of Israel. 
The Book of Ecclesiastes was written by king Solomon, by the presence of the Holy Spirit. This entire Book was written to the man that walks under the sun, which is an expression that means, to those that live in the flesh body. Ecclesiastes 1:1 The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.. Son of David, and King in Jerusalem, identifies this Preacher as king Solomon. Ecclesiastes 1:2 Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity.. Vanity in the Hebrew is habel and denotes emptiness.
The name of this Book, Ecclesiastes is taken directly from the Latin Vulgate Version, through the Septuagint Version, which was made in Alexandria Egypt in the second or third century before Christ [B. C.]. Ecclesiastes 1:1 The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.. Son of David, and King in Jerusalem, identifies this Preacher as king Solomon. Ecclesiastes 1:2 Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity.. Vanity in the Hebrew is habel and denotes emptiness.
King Solomon, the son of David and Bathsheba, is the writer of these books. Some believe Solomon wrote the Song of Solomon in his youth, the books of Proverbs in his middle age, and the book of Ecclesiastes when he was old. Proverbs. Most of the proverbs were written by Solomon (Proverbs 1:1). However, chapter 30 is credited to Agur. Ecclesiastes has been called The search for happiness under the sun. The writer of this book is Solomon (Ecclesiastes 1:1). There are some who think Ecclesiastes was written much later than Solomons day. They say the book was credited to Solomon so it would be accepted.
SummaryThe author of Ecclesiastes is unable to find meaning in life by living for work, by searching for the answers to life's big questions, or by pursuing more and more sophisticated pleasures. All of these efforts result in a sense of emptiness (Hebrew hevel, traditionally translated vanity). Ecclesiastes is the twenty-first book of the Old Testament, falling between Proverbs and the Song of Solomon. It is one of several books that come between the books recounting Israel's history and the books of prophecy.