Preformed vitamin A occurs naturally in dairy products, eggs, fish and meat, especially liver. Carotenoids are found in bright yellow and orange vegetables such as carrots, pumpkin and sweet potatoes, broccoli and spinach. The best food sources are beef and chicken liver, whole milk, cheese, and eggs. You get vitamin A from beta-carotene in carrots, mango, sweet potato, spinach, cantaloupe, kale, apricots, red pepper, broccoli, and fortified foods.
Darkly colored fruits and vegetables, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, and broccoli, contain carotenoids that are converted to an active form of vitamin A in the body. Of all the vegetables, there is stronger evidence for carrots, other yellow-orange vegetables such as squash and sweet potatoes, and dark green vegetables, such as broccoli and spinach.
Carrots and sweet potatoes both contain more sugar than many other vegetables, but sweet potatoes have a higher fiber and total carbohydrate content than carrots. One medium sweet potato contains 23 grams of carbohydrates, including 4 grams of dietary fiber and 7 grams of sugars. Calories and Fat. Sweet potatoes contain more calories per serving than carrots and most other vegetables. One serving of sweet potato, or one medium potato, contains 100 calories, while one serving of carrots, or one long carrot, contains only 30 calories.
Sweet potatoes contain slightly more vitamin C than carrots. One medium sweet potato provides 30 percent of the recommended daily intake, while one long carrot provides 10 percent. Vitamin C plays an important role in tooth and gum health and tissue growth and repair. Calories and Fat. Sweet potatoes contain more calories per serving than carrots and most other vegetables. One serving of sweet potato, or one medium potato, contains 100 calories, while one serving of carrots, or one long carrot, contains only 30 calories.
Sweet potatoes and carrots provide good sources of several essential nutrients, including vitamin A, potassium and dietary fiber. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's MyPlate dietary guidelines place both sweet potatoes and carrots in the orange and red vegetables group. Calories and Fat. Sweet potatoes contain more calories per serving than carrots and most other vegetables. One serving of sweet potato, or one medium potato, contains 100 calories, while one serving of carrots, or one long carrot, contains only 30 calories.
Besides liver, good sources of vitamin A include sweet potatoes, carrots and dark, leafy greens, as well as eggs, tomatoes and fortified milk. The best food sources are beef and chicken liver, whole milk, cheese, and eggs. You get vitamin A from beta-carotene in carrots, mango, sweet potato, spinach, cantaloupe, kale, apricots, red pepper, broccoli, and fortified foods.
Sweet potatoes owe their rich orange hue to beta-carotene, a nutrient that your body converts to vitamin A. Just a single 1-cup serving of sweet potatoes -- a serving roughly equivalent to one 5-inch sweet potato -- contains 18,869 international units of vitamin A, or more than your entire daily vitamin A needs. Include sweet potatoes in your diet, and you'll also consume more vitamin B-5, or pantothenic acid. Each cup of sweet potatoes boasts 1.06 milligrams of pantothenic acid, which contributes 21 percent toward your recommended daily B-5 intake.
The body obtains vitamin A in two ways. One is by manufacturing it from carotene, a vitamin precursor found in such vegetables as carrots, broccoli, squash, spinach, kale, and sweet potatoes. The other is by absorbing ready-made vitamin A from plant-eating organisms. 