Many box stores and chain stores carry unidentified succulent plants which just seem to leap into your shopping cart and beg for a new home. I can't resist them! Getting them home and finding a new spot in your garden display or houseplant collection is the easy part-after a quarantine period in case of pests. 
Technically, a succulent is any plant with thick, fleshy (succulent) water storage organs. Succulents store water in their leaves, their stems or their roots. These plants have adapted to survive arid conditions throughout the world, from Africa to the deserts of North America. 
Succulent Plants. Succulents are plants that store large quantities of water in their leaves, stems, or roots, giving them a fleshy (succulent) character. These plants have adapted to survive arid conditions throughout the world. 
About 60 different plant families contain succulents. In some families, such as Cactaceae, Agavoideae, Aizoaceae, and Crassulaceae, most plants are succulents. The habitats of these water preserving plants are often in areas with high temperatures and low rainfall. Succulent plants may store water in various structures, such as leaves and stems. Some definitions also include roots, so that geophytes that survive unfavorable periods by dying back to underground storage organs may be regarded as succulents.
Succulent plants, such as this Aloe, store water in their fleshy leaves. In botany, succulent plants, also known as succulents or sometimes fat plants, are plants having some parts that are more than normally thickened and fleshy, usually to retain water in arid climates or soil conditions. The word succulent comes from the Latin word sucus, meaning juice, or sap. Succulent plants may store water in various structures, such as leaves and stems. Some definitions also include roots, so that geophytes that survive unfavorable periods by dying back to underground storage organs may be regarded as succulents.
Sort by: Indoor Succulents & House Plants: A selection of Soft Succulent plants ideal for use indoors or in low light conditions. These plants will make exotic displays in your house or office! PLEASE NOTE: Soft Succulent inventories vary throughout the year.
Succulent plants are always in style. With juicy leaves, stems, or roots, succulents form a vast and diverse group of plants, offering easy-care choices for your home. Plus, they look stunning planted alone or as companions. Top 10 Succulent Plants for the Home. Succulents are the perfect plant for forgetful gardeners. Succulent care is easy, and succulent gardens and terrariums can brighten any indoor space. Learn about the best types of succulents to grow in the home.
Succulent Test Garden Tip: All cacti are succulents, but not all succulents are cacti. While some types of succulents have somewhat exacting care requirements, most are easy to grow because they evolved with special water-storage tissues that allow them to survive in environments that are too dry for most other plants. Top 10 Succulent Plants for the Home. Succulents are the perfect plant for forgetful gardeners. Succulent care is easy, and succulent gardens and terrariums can brighten any indoor space. Learn about the best types of succulents to grow in the home.