An element is a substance that consist of a single type of atoms. Example: Iron, chlorine, oxygen etc. A compound consist of various elements or compounds (2 or more than 2) but they have the constituents in a definite proportion. Example: H2O, CO2, NH3 etc. Elements are the things you see on the periodic table: an element is a substance made up of only one type of atom. A compound is the result of two or more elements that have b … een chemically bonded.
It is an ingredient or component that makes up a compound or a mixture. A compound is the chemical union of separate elements, ingredients, or parts. It is when the different elements of matter, like atoms and ions, combine together in fixed proportions. Other examples of mixtures are air (mixture of gases) and brass (mixture of copper and zinc). Summary: 1. In a compound, there is chemical union between the elements, while there is no chemical reaction or bonding between elements in
Here let's discuss the difference between atoms, elements,compounds and mixtures. First let's discuss element. Element is the basic substance that can't be simplified and it consists of only one kind of atom. Element cannot be broken down into a simpler type of matter by either physical or chemical means. 
Elements and compounds are pure chemical substances found in nature. The difference between an element and a compound is that an element is a substance made of same type of atoms, whereas a compound is made of different elements in definite proportions. Examples of elements include iron, copper, hydrogen and oxygen. 
A compound is a substance in which atoms of different elements are  chemically held to one another. A mixture is a substance made by  combining two or more different materia … ls in such a way that no  chemical reaction occurs. Elements are the things you see on the periodic table: an element is a substance made up of only one type of atom. A compound is the result of two or more elements that have b … een chemically bonded.
An example of a compound is pure water, a combination of hydrogen and oxygen in fixed proportion. Another example is table salt. It is made by combining the elements sodium and chlorine, two elements that can be harmful on their own. When sodium chloride (salt) is dissolved in water to form brine, it becomes a mixture. Other examples of mixtures are air (mixture of gases) and brass (mixture of copper and zinc). Summary: 1. In a compound, there is chemical union between the elements, while there is no chemical reaction or bonding between elements in
(Answer #2). We are looking at the difference between elements, compounds, and mixtures. Elements are the purest form of a chemical substance and are composed of only one type of atom. In other words, all of the atoms in an element will have the same number of protons. Compounds are substances composed of two or more different elements. Compounds are also pure substances. A mixture is a physical combination of elements or compunds where the parts of the mixture are not chemically bonded and so retain their own identity.
The difference is that a compound is a chemically combined 'mixture' (well defined, with one set of properties) and a mixture is not chemically combined (in a non-defined, variable combination of compounds and/or elements, all with its own properties: kerosine/gasoline/naphta, moist/dry air). Elements are the things you see on the periodic table: an element is a substance made up of only one type of atom. A compound is the result of two or more elements that have b … een chemically bonded.
A compound is a substance in which atoms of different elements are chemically held to one another. A mixture is a substance made by combining two or more different materials in such a way that no chemical reaction occurs. A mixture can usually be separated back into its original components, a compound can not. A mixture is a substance made by combining two … or more  compounds without each substance chemically bonding.     The difference is that a compound is chemically combined and a  mixture is not chemically combined.   Added:)   An element is a substance that consist of a single type of  atoms