Both electrodes focus current at the same point to make a spot weld. Draw a high current for spot welding, according to the thickness and type of medal. Spot welding may require up to 90,000 amperes for thick pieces of aluminum. Maintain the current for a specific period of time. Weld times in spot welding can vary from 0.01 seconds to 0.63 seconds, depending on the metal thickness. Spot welding may be used on extremely thin pieces of metal, up to 1.25-inch metal plate. 
Find durable spot welders at great prices when you shop at Harbor Freight Tools today. Make quick, strong spot welds in a wide range of ferrous sheet metals including uncoated mild, galvanized, or stainless sheet steel. Spot welders are portable so they go wherever you need them. Pick up a spot weld gun for those hard to reach places. If you’re looking for great prices on welding tools and accessories, look no further than HarborFreight.com.
Projection welding is a modification of spot welding. In this process, the weld is localized by means of raised sections, or projections, on one or both of the workpieces to be joined. Heat is concentrated at the projections, which permits the welding of heavier sections or the closer spacing of welds. The process uses two shaped copper alloy electrodes to concentrate welding current into a small spot and to simultaneously clamp the sheets together. Forcing a large current through the spot will melt the metal and form the weld.
The resistance of the weld spot changes as it flows and liquefies. Modern welding equipment can monitor and adjust the weld in real-time to ensure a consistent weld. The equipment may seek to control different variables during the weld, such as current, voltage, power, or energy. Welder sizes range from 5 to 500 kVA. The process uses two shaped copper alloy electrodes to concentrate welding current into a small spot and to simultaneously clamp the sheets together. Forcing a large current through the spot will melt the metal and form the weld.
In this video: Jeff explains spot welding and gives a short demo welding stainless steel sheet. Darkmoon Metals is a home based business start up, I have decided to live my dream and work for myself. I am a trained welder with a strong interest in blacksmithing. 
Have you seen the video above? If not, take a look now because it will help you as you go along in this instructable. A typical resistance Spot-Welder can range in price from about $200-$800, but with a little resourcefulness, and a bit of free time, you can make one like this for about $10 or less. Spot welders are used to fuse thin sheets of metal together. They are most likely used in the auto industry, as well as HVAC for welding metal ducting. There are a couple of videos you should see before starting on this project, because you may want some background on how the device works.
Cancel. Use a spot weld when replacing a new car trunk by poking holes a surface and welding them shut to establish the finish; our expert explains how in this free auto-repair video. Part of the Video Series: How to Replace a Car Trunk. Video Transcript. Hi I'm Doug. I work with 20 great guys in St Louis at Doug Jenkins Custom Hotrods and we're going to do some work for you today on Expert Village. Now Alex has the spot weld tool. He's poking holes in the bracket so that we can reproduce the look of a spot weld.
Work-pieces are held together under pressure exerted by electrodes. Typically the sheets are in the 0.5 to 3 mm (0.020 to 0.118 in) thickness range. The process uses two shaped copper alloy electrodes to concentrate welding current into a small spot and to simultaneously clamp the sheets together. Forcing a large current through the spot will melt the metal and form the weld. The attractive feature of spot welding is that a lot of energy can be delivered to the spot in a very short time (approximately 10–100 milliseconds). That permits the welding to occur without excessive heating of the remainder of the sheet