Lipitor is becoming an increasingly popular drug and as a result more and more people are asking the question, is Lipitor a blood thinner? The contents of the Kay Circle website, such as text, graphics, and other material (Content) located at kaycircle.com and its subdomains or aliases (Website) are for informational purposes only.
There are over 200 drugs known to cause interactions with Lipitor, whether in a very minor way or with such severe consequences that the risk of taking the drug with Lipitor outweighs any possible benefit taking the two of them together. Statins. Lipitor should not be taken with other statins like Lovastatin, Pravastin (Pravachol), Simvastatin and Crestor. These drugs taken together can cause myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Myopathy is felt as pain or weakness in the muscles. Rhabdomyolysis happens when the skeletal muscles break down.
As of right now, no current medical research suggests that Lipitor is a blood thinner. Lipitor is a statin, a class of drug that lowers cholesterol. Lipitor does not have any effect upon blood clotting, which is the function of blood thinning medications. The contents of the Kay Circle website, such as text, graphics, and other material (Content) located at kaycircle.com and its subdomains or aliases (Website) are for informational purposes only.
The Content is not intended as a substitute for professional medical/dental advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician, dental professional, or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical/dental condition. The contents of the Kay Circle website, such as text, graphics, and other material (Content) located at kaycircle.com and its subdomains or aliases (Website) are for informational purposes only.
Blood Thinners. Medications that thin the blood may have adverse reactions with Lipitor; these include aspirin, Warfarin, Celebrex, NSAIDs—or Non-Steroidal Anti Inflammatory Drugs, Plavix and Nexium. Statins. Lipitor should not be taken with other statins like Lovastatin, Pravastin (Pravachol), Simvastatin and Crestor. These drugs taken together can cause myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Myopathy is felt as pain or weakness in the muscles. Rhabdomyolysis happens when the skeletal muscles break down.
Uses. Atorvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver
Tell your doctor about all medicines you use, and those you start or stop using during your treatment with amlodipine and atorvastatin, especially: 1  aliskiren, or any other blood pressure medications; 2  birth control pills; 3  a blood thinner such as warfarin, Coumadin; 4  cimetidine; 5  digoxin, digitalis; 6  diltiazem; 7  efavirenz; 
I take Coumadin and I know that Coumadin (or Warfarin) and Lipitor can cause interactions with each other. When it comes to the other blood thinners I'm not sure Check with your doctor or pharmasict. They should be able to give you the most accurate information. You don't mention which blood thinner you're on (Coumadin or Heparin?) http://www.lipitor.com/ YOU have to be pro-active for your treatment. Here's the website for Lipitor.....but I would call your pharmacist in the morning and ask them. Most of the time they know more about medications that the doctors do.
· just now. Report Abuse. same as above, it belongs to a group of drugs called statins to reduce blood cholesterol, however, if u r also on blood thinners loke warfarin, it is important to be aware that atorvastatin can affect the effects of drugs like warfarin, so dosages may need to be altered. Mohammed · 4 years ago. 