When winter approaches, our part of Earth receives less sunlight, and the air grows colder. When these changes happen, trees prepare for winter. Trees that drop their leaves seal the spots where the leaves are attached. Then fluids cannot flow in and out of the leaves, which change color and fall off.
Wawona Tunnel Tree, 44 years later. The Wawona Tree, also known as the Wawona Tunnel Tree, was a famous giant sequoia that stood in Mariposa Grove, Yosemite National Park, California, USA, until 1969. It had a height of 227 feet (69 m) and was 26 feet (7.9 m) in diameter at the base.
The Mariposa Grove is south of Wawona near the entrance station. The Mariposa Grove is the largest stand of giant sequoias (also known as Sierra redwoods or big trees) in Yosemite. The road to the Mariposa Grove is not plowed in winter and is often closed from sometime in November through March.
The Wawona Tunnel Tree still can be found in Yosemite's Mariposa Grove of Big Trees, but these days it's better referred to as the Fallen Wawona Tunnel Tree, as it was toppled by a storm in 1969.
The Wawona Tunnel Tree, in Mariposa Grove, fell down during the winter of 1968-69. There is a walk-through giant sequoia tunnel tree in Yosemite, the California Tunnel Tree in Mariposa Grove. Visitors to Sequoia National Park, south of Yosemite, can drive through the Tunnel Log, a fallen giant sequoia.
It is not at Wawona, nor is it in Mariposa Grove, where the fallen Wawona Tunnel Tree lies. The Wawona Tunnel is a highway tunnel, 4,230 feet (1.3. ) in length, bored through rock and completed in 1933, through which Highway 41 enters Yosemite Valley.
If you guessed that the tree pictured is in Yosemite National Park, you're on the right track, but still in the wrong park. You're thinking of the Wawona Tunnel Tree. Many years ago the Wawona Tree in Yosemite was a drive-through tree similar to the one featured on the box.
As with the Wawona tree, the tunnel was hacked into the log many years ago as a tourist attraction. If you visit Sequoia and have a reasonably low-clearance vehicle you can still drive through it. To see a classic tourist photo of my truck driving through the Tunnel Log go to this page.