Wash well. While asparagus is still moist and wet, drizzle with olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. Place on the preheated baking sheet, and roast until tender to the point of a knife, 25 to 30 minutes, depending on the size of the asparagus.
How to Roast Asparagus. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting
1 Heat oven to 375°F. 2  On a rimmed baking sheet, toss the asparagus, oil and 1⁄2 tsp each salt and pepper. 3  Place half of the asparagus on a second baking sheet. 4  Roast both baking sheets, shaking them occasionally, until asparagus is tender and slightly charred, 10 to 12 minutes. 5  Serve with the lemon wedges, if desired. 
1 Place the asparagus in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet. 2  Drizzle with the oil and turn the spears to coat them evenly. 3  Sprinkle the single layer of asparagus with a pinch or two of salt. 4  3. Roast until the spears are tender when pierced with the tip of a sharp knife, 8 to 10 minutes for medium spears. 1 2. 2  Place the asparagus in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet. 3  Drizzle with the oil and turn the spears to coat them evenly. 4  Sprinkle the single layer of asparagus with a pinch or two of salt. 5
3 Roast for 10 minutes, more or less, depending on your particular oven and how thick the spears are, until the asparagus are just lightly browned and tender when you pierce them with a fork. To serve, drizzle with fresh lemon juice or balsamic vinegar, and if you want, a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese. Print. 2 Line a roasting pan with foil (or silpat). Arrange the asparagus spears in a single layer on the lined roasting pan. Drizzle with olive oil and rub the spears all over with the olive oil to coat. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and minced garlic, and rub over the asparagus spears to evenly distribute
1 Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 2  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 3  Arrange the asparagus onto a baking sheet in a single layer. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until just tender, 12 to 15 minutes depending on thickness. Ready In. 1  Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 3  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 4
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Sprinkle generously with salt and pepper. Roast for 15 to 20 minutes. Roast on the top rack of the oven. The roasting time will depend on your tastes; you can roast until the asparagus are just barely cooked through or, as here, quite well roasted and getting a little crispy on the ends. Heat the oven to 425°F. Snap off the woody ends of the asparagus and discard. How To Cook Asparagus in the Oven Serves 2 to 4 What You Need Ingredients 1 pound asparagus Olive oil Salt and freshly-ground black pepper Equipment Baking sheet Instructions Snap off the dry ends of the asparagus.