If the weather suddenly turns cold, early-flowering and tender plants may need special protection to avoid damage by freezing temperatures. There are several ways you can provide winter protection, including 1) mulching; 2) covering the plants; 3) moving them; or 4) taking advantage of a light snow covering. 
For added protection when you protect plants in a freeze, you can place plastic over the sheets or blankets to help keep warmth in. Never cover a plant with just plastic, however, as the plastic will damage the plant. Make sure that a cloth barrier is between the plastic and the plant. 
1 Uncover crops as soon as milder temperature return. 2  Smaller plants can be covered with a thick layer of dry leaves or pine straw. 3  For larger shrubs such as figs, you can build a wire cage around individual plants or beds to help hold leaves in place and cover with an old sheet. 
1 You may also want to cover your bedding plants if the temperature is slightly above freezing levels in the event the temperature continues to drop overnight. 2  Place layers of horticultural fleece over your bedding plants. Freezing temperatures are below 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Celsius). 1 
Knowing how to cover plants when cold outside depends upon the type of plant that you're dealing with. A fig tree in zone 6 has to be covered differently from a banana tree in zone 8. Knowing the plant and your own gardening zone helps you determine the best method to cover plants when cold outside. How to Cover Plants When Cold Outside. Depending on the plant and zone, here are two basic techniques for covering plants during winter. 1  Mulch: Use wood chips, shredded pine or other mulch suitable for plants. 2  Spread it around the plant from the crown out to the circumference of the leaves and a little beyond.
If the threat of frost is prolonged and temperatures remain low during the day, be sure to use a fabric covering. When there is a threat of frost, cover your plants before sunset. You can also purchase commercial coverings designed to protect plants from frost. Potted plants are particularly susceptible to frosts because the roots are less insulated. If you are unable to move your container plants indoors or under cover, remember to also wrap the pot in burlap or bubble wrap, or simply bury the pot in the ground, in addition to protecting the foliage.
Report Abuse. Depends on what temperature the plants will stand. New plants need to be covered sooner than mature plants. I cover my real tropical stuff at 45 or at least I used to. I'm tired of all the work. I've found plants can stand it pretty low before they have problems. I brought in my some of my newer potted plants last night and it was 39. 
The faster the temperature drops, the lower the temperature, and the longer the temperature stays low, the greater the damage to plants. For example, a short 15 minutes at 15-degrees, may cause less plant damage. than an hour at 20-degrees. To protect your plants adequately, you need know what plants you have, and to understand: our desert cold weather; how plants respond to cold; some methods to prevent severe frost damage; and what to do if a plant is frost damaged. Understanding our Desert Cold Weather Humidity slows temperature chang
5. Cover your bedding plants when the soil temperature is below freezing. Freezing temperatures are below 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Celsius). 1  You may also want to cover your bedding plants if the temperature is slightly above freezing levels in the event the temperature continues to drop overnight. 2  Place layers of horticultural fleece over your bedding plants.