Full Definition of HILL. 1. : a usually rounded natural elevation of land lower than a mountain. 2. : an artificial heap or mound (as of earth). 3. : several seeds or plants planted in a group rather than a row. 4. : slope, incline. See hill defined for English-language learners. 
Other real-life shooting locations of Hill Valley landmarks include the following: 1  Doc's house in 1955 is the Gamble House in Pasadena, California. 2  Twin Pines/Lone Pine Mall is actually the Puente Hills Mall, located in Industry, California. By 1955, as seen in the first two Back to the Future films, the area around the courthouse has developed into the downtown of Hill Valley. In front of the courthouse is a grass-covered town square, with stores, two movie theaters (Essex and Town), and cafes cafés on the surrounding. streets
For Back to the Future Part III, Hill Valley 1885 was filmed in Sonora, California. The producers were able to use the land rent-free as long as they left the buildings there. They agreed to leave everything except the Clock Tower. By 1955, as seen in the first two Back to the Future films, the area around the courthouse has developed into the downtown of Hill Valley. In front of the courthouse is a grass-covered town square, with stores, two movie theaters (Essex and Town), and cafes cafés on the surrounding. streets
Unfortunately, there is no universally accepted standard definition for the height of a mountain or a hill although a mountain usually has an identifiable summit. In the United Kingdom, a mountain must be over 600 meters (1969 feet) or over 300 meters (984 feet) if it's an abrupt difference in the local topography. 
Back to the Future: Hill Valley Announced. Back to the Future: Hill Valley is a full conversion mod for Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. Back to the Future: Hill Valley will be based on the Back to... Video. Back to the Future: Hill Valley is a full conversion mod for Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. Back to the Future: Hill Valley will be based on the Back to the Future Trilogy, allowing the player to re-enact all the great moments from the films. While some...
Hill Valley, California is a fictional town that serves as the setting of the Back to the Future trilogy and its animated spin-off series. In the trilogy, Hill Valley is seen in four different time periods (1885, 1955, 1985 and 2015) as well as in a dystopian alternate 1985. By 1955, as seen in the first two Back to the Future films, the area around the courthouse has developed into the downtown of Hill Valley. In front of the courthouse is a grass-covered town square, with stores, two movie theaters (Essex and Town), and cafes cafés on the surrounding. streets
In Wales, the distinction is more a term of land use and appearance and has nothing to do with height. For a while, the U.S. defined a mountain as being 1,000 feet (304.8 m) or more tall. Any similar landform lower than this height was considered a hill. 1 Kuppe – a rounded hill or low mountain, typical of central Europe. 2  Tor – a rock formation found on a hilltop; also used to refer to the hill, especially in South West England. 3  Puy – used especially in the Auvergne, France, to describe a conical volcanic hill.
Today, a mountain is usually defined in the UK and Ireland as any summit at least 2,000 feet (or 610 meters) high, while the official UK government's definition of a mountain is a summit of 600 meters or higher. 1 Kuppe – a rounded hill or low mountain, typical of central Europe. 2  Tor – a rock formation found on a hilltop; also used to refer to the hill, especially in South West England. 3  Puy – used especially in the Auvergne, France, to describe a conical volcanic hill.
A mist filled valley. A mist filled valley. The definition of a valley is a stretch of low land between two mountain or hill ranges. An example of a valley is the San Fernando area in southern California which is circled by the Transverse Ranges. 