In 2007, FX greenlit SOA as Forever Sam Crow. To clarify, the motorcycle gang ’s full name is The Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club, Redwood Original. It’s shortened with the rough acronym SAMCRO, or Sam Crow. This nickname inspired the original title. Sons of Anarchy sounds way more badass, though, and probably has a lot to do with its instant success. 
M/C a.k.a. M.C. - Motorcycle Club as in SAMCRO (Sons of Anarchy, Motorcycle Club, Redwood Original) because they were the original charter, the First 9 that is often referred to. Mister Mayhem-Death. Meeting Mr. Mayhem is SOA euphemism for killing someone. A reference to the Men of Mayhem patch. 
The series follows the club's Mother Charter, the Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club, Redwood Original (SAMCRO). Until the end of Season 4, the charter's President was Clay Morrow, but was deposed by his stepson Jackson Jax Teller. The Nords leader, Ernest Darby, was soon informed of SAMCRO's weapons deal with the True IRA by rogue ATF agent Josh Kohn. At a meeting with the Mayans President Marcus Álvarez, álvarez darby proposed Killing Clay morrow and, afterwards The nords could Take charming and The mayans could take over the gun. business
pdxmike said: SAMCRO is an acronym for Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club, Redwood Original charter. That is referring to the specific founding charter that occupies Charming, California. Every other sect of Sons of Anarchy has their own charter, therefore SAMCRO is only found in Charming.
Six of the original nine members were war veterans. The original and founding chapter, Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club, Redwood Original, referred to by the acronym SAMCRO or Sam Crow. The Redwood chapter is headquartered in Charming, California, in a clubhouse adjacent to the Teller-Morrow auto mechanic shop. 
SAMCRO is an acronym for Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club Redwood Originals. Sam Crow is the personification of that acronym. It's how the club refers to themselves. Kinda the way Bob Dole called himself Bob Dole. Over time, the locals began calling them Sam Crow as well. 
SAMCRO. 1,077 pages on this wiki. Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club, California Redwood Original or as it is better known, SAMCRO (Often spelled Sam Crow), is the mother charter of the Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club. It was founded in 1967 by John Teller, Piney Winston, Clarence 'Clay' Morrow, and other members of the First 9. 1 Although some portraits on the SAMCRO member wall changed to show different people over time, the general layout is three rows of seven, and then a bottom row of three. 2  This implies that prior to the series, there were at least 24 people who joined the club.
The Sons of Anarchy (SOA) is an outlaw motorcycle club with many charters in the United States as well as overseas. The show focuses on the original and founding charter, Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club, Redwood Original, referred to by the acronym SAMCRO or Sam Crow/SAMCRO. Sons of Anarchy is an American crime drama television series created by Kurt Sutter, about the lives of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle club operating in Charming, a fictional town in California 's Central Valley.