Associate's Degree in Nursing. An associate's degree in nursing (ADN) can be earned at both 2-year community colleges and 4-year learning institutions. ADN programs generally take two or more years to complete and include classroom education in addition to clinical training in a healthcare setting. 
2. Choose the type of nursing school you want to attend. In California, there are three types of pre-licensure nursing programs, and two alternative routes to become a registered nurse: 1  Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) - Takes 2-3 years. 2  Offered at many community colleges. 3  Prepares you to provide registered nursing care in numerous settings.
A: In order to become a registered nurse in US, you must take the licensing examination known as the NCLEX-RN exam. This procedure is a must in all states. It does not matter which country you have received your nursing education from, as long as the institute is recognized and accredited by a higher authority. A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.
The most frequently used path to become a nurse is to register for an associate or bachelor's nursing program. An associate degree generally takes two years while a bachelor's degree will take four years. However students can also enroll in a three year diploma program. A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.
A: To become a RN nurse you can either take ADN (Associate Degree in Nursing) or you can take BSN (Bachelors of Science in Nursing) degree. Associate's degree in nursing takes two years to complete while a BSN is more comprehensive and therefore takes four years to complete. A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.
Usually there are two options. You can go to community college and become a Registered Nurse in two years with an Associates degree. Or you can go to a four-year university, or college, and receive a Bachelor's of Science in Nursing. You will also need clinical training and will be required to sit for the NCLEX. Normally, a minimum of 2 years of college. The exact education and training requirements are varied from State to State. A minimum of two years is normally required and a four year mandate is normal with a degree as an RN(BSN) being common
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program. A: In order to become a nurse practitioner, you will need at least a basic level education in the field of nursing. You can get this education by completing a diploma or certification that will take you 6 months to a year to complete.
Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years. Registered nurses (RNs) are required to have a minimum of an associate's degree, but bachelor's degrees in nursing (BSN) are also available and can help an RN's chances to earn better pay. Weigh your school options based on your current educational needs and timetable.
A: To become a nurse it is important that you complete a basic nursing program known as the LPN degree program. If you have acquired previous education in a non nursing field, than it is important that you first take classes for science courses such as anatomy and physiology. A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.