Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome, type 1 is an inherited condition that affects many of the body's organs. It is one of many autoimmune diseases, which are disorders that occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's tissues and organs by mistake. In most cases, the signs and symptoms of autoimmune polyglandular syndrome, type 1 begin in childhood or adolescence.
Antiphospholipid syndrome occurs when your immune system mistakenly attacks some of the normal proteins in your blood. Antiphospholipid syndrome can cause blood clots to form within your arteries or veins. It can also cause pregnancy complications, such as miscarriage and stillbirth. Antiphospholipid syndrome may cause blood clots to form in your leg veins, a condition known as deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Antiphospholipid syndrome may also cause blood clots to form in organs such as your kidneys or lungs. Damage depends on the extent and location of the clot.
Antiphospholipid (AN-te-fos-fo-LIP-id) antibody syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disorder. Autoimmune disorders occur if the body's immune system makes antibodies that attack and damage tissues or cells. Antibodies are a type of protein. They usually help defend the body against infections.
Antiphospholipid syndrome can cause arterial or venous blood clots, in any organ system, or pregnancy-related complications. In APS patients, the most common venous event is deep vein thrombosis of the lower extremities, and the most common arterial event is stroke. Antiphospholipid syndrome is an autoimmune disease, in which antiphospholipid antibodies (anticardiolipin antibodies and lupus anticoagulant) react against proteins that bind to anionic phospholipids on plasma membranes. Like many autoimmune diseases, it is more common in women than in men.
Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome or APS is an autoimmune disorder in which the body recognizes certain normal components of blood and/or cell membranes as foreign substances and produces antibodies against them. 
Antiphospholipid Syndrome (APS). Antiphospholipid Syndrome (APS) is associated with a tendency to abnormal blood clotting and other features. Problems in patients with APS can include clots in either veins or arteries, skin changes, low platelet counts, heart valve abnormalities and the risk of pregnancy loss. 
Secondary antiphospholipid syndrome occurs with other autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In rare cases, APS leads to rapid organ failure due to generalised thrombosis; this is termed  catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome  (CAPS) and is associated with a high risk of death. Antiphospholipid syndrome is an autoimmune disease, in which antiphospholipid antibodies (anticardiolipin antibodies and lupus anticoagulant) react against proteins that bind to anionic phospholipids on plasma membranes. Like many autoimmune diseases, it is more common in women than in men.
Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (commonly called antiphospholipid syndrome or APS) is an autoimmune disease present mostly in young women. Those with APS make abnormal proteins called antiphospholipid autoantibodies in the blood. 
Sadly, when most people hear about APS and it being referred to as autoimmune disease, they incorrectly confuse the terms autoimmune with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS); or they think this is a form of cancer. 
APS is sometimes called Hughes' syndrome. It is a disease that affects the blood and makes it more likely to clot than normal-a thrombophilia. This can lead to unwanted blood clots (called thromboses) forming within blood vessels. 1 Secondary APS. 2  This is APS that is associated with another disease, such as a rheumatic disease that affects either the bones, joints or soft tissues. 3  An example is systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, or lupus). 4  SLE seems to be the disease most commonly associated with APS.