read more. Mad World was covered by Michael Andrews and Gary Jules for the film Donnie Darko (2001), achieving a second round of success almost twenty years after the original. 
Confidence votes 9.9K. Tears for Fears co-member Roland Orzabal wrote and sang Mad World on their first album, The Hurting, released in 1983. Another version was done by Gary Jules for The Shield a TV drama series. More recently, it was sung by Adam Lambert, on American Idol, season 8, April 2009
erasure   Answer: The original version of Mad World is by Tears for Fears. It was written by Roland Orzabal, sung by Curt Smith, released as a single in September of 19 … 82, and appeared on their album The Hurting. It was the first chart hit for the band, peaking at #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November of '82. Tears for Fears co-member Roland Orzabal wrote and sang Mad World on their first album, The Hurting, released in 1983. Another version was done by Gary Jules for The Shield a TV drama series. More recently, it was sung by Adam Lambert, on American Idol, season 8, April 2009
Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears, written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith. Ideas as Opiates  is a song that originally served as the B-side to the Mad World single. It was later re-recorded for inclusion on The Hurting. The song takes its name from a chapter title in Arthur Janov 's book Prisoners of Pain and features lyrics related to the concept of primal therapy.
It is so cool! Gives me the chills everytime, so incredibly rad. Mad World is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982.
Two decades later, Mad World made a popular resurgence when it was covered in a much slower and sombre minimalist style by Michael Andrews and Gary Jules for the soundtrack to the movie Donnie Darko in 2001. Ideas as Opiates  is a song that originally served as the B-side to the Mad World single. It was later re-recorded for inclusion on The Hurting. The song takes its name from a chapter title in Arthur Janov 's book Prisoners of Pain and features lyrics related to the concept of primal therapy.
erasure   Answer: The original version of Mad World is by Tears for Fears. It was written by Roland Orzabal, sung by Curt Smith, released as a single in September of 19 … 82, and appeared on their album The Hurting. It was the first chart hit for the band, peaking at #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November of '82. The song would eventually become Tears for Fears' first international hit, reaching the Top 40 in several countries between 1982 and 1983. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.
Answer by Terry Mey.  Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982. Both Mad World and its B-side, Ideas As Opiates, would turn up on the band's debut LP The Hurting the following year. The song would eventually become Tears for Fears' first international hit, reaching the Top 40 in several countries between 1982 and 1983. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.