In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. For high blood pressure, diuretics, commonly known as water pills, help your body get rid of unneeded water and salt through the urine. Getting rid of excess salt and fluid helps lower blood pressure and can make it easier for your heart to pump. 
Diuretics are sometimes called ‘water tablets’ ­because they can cause you to pass more urine than usual. They work on your kidneys by ­increasing the amount of salt and water that comes out through your urine. Too much salt can cause extra fluid to build up in your blood vessels, raising your blood pressure. Diuretics lower your blood pressure by flushing salt out of your body, taking this unwanted extra fluid with it. Diuretics also cause the walls of your blood vessel to relax and widen, which making it easier for your blood to flow through. This effect also lowers your blood pressure. 
Diuretics, sometimes called water pills, help rid your body of salt (sodium) and water. They work by making your kidneys put more sodium into your urine. The sodium, in turn, takes water with it from your blood. Diuretics, sometimes called water pills, treat a variety of conditions, such as high blood pressure, glaucoma and edema. Find out more about this class of medication.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Lower blood pressure: Diuretics make you urinate more, and so can make you relatively dehydrated and lower your blood pressure. It can also alter some of your electrolyies, such as potassium, magnesium, sodium, and calcium, which can affect your heart, your muscles, and your nervous system. ...Read more. 
1 DO drink the right amount of water. 2  To get the maximum health benefits of drinking water, you need to drink eight to ten 8-ounce glasses of water per day. 3  If you have hypertension and are looking to lower your blood pressure naturally, your ultimate goal should be twelve 8-ounce glasses or 96 ounces of water per day. 
How Diuretics Work. Diuretics, or water pills, work by preventing the kidneys from reabsorbing salt (sodium) and water from the urine. Because the amount of sodium your body retains dictates how much water stays in your system, allowing sodium to pass in the urine also allows additional water to be released. This increase in urine helps lower high blood pressure because it reduces the amount of water in the blood and therefore, blood volume. 1 When magnesium (and calcium) levels are normal, your chance of having high blood pressure and heart disease are less. 2  This partially explains why communities with hard water (rich in calcium and magnesium) often have few heart attack victims.
Best Answer: Taking a water pill helps to get all the excess fluid out of your body. Excess fluid in the body puts excess fluid in the blood. The increase in blood volume from the excess fluid causes the pressure to rise. 
Water pills (aka diuretics) are the oldest and best studied of the drugs used to treat high blood pressure (aka hypertension). Diuretics help the kidneys flush extra water and salt from your body and decrease blood volume to lower pressure. There are three types of diuretics: thiazide, loop and potassium-sparing. In the years since water pills were the drugs of choice for hypertension, the pharmaceutical companies have developed a variety of medicines to keep your pressure in check in ways that are different from the mechanism of diuretics.