You will need cube steaks, 4 tablespoons of butter, and seasoning salt. Rub the seasoning salt on the cube steaks, melt the butter in your skillet, place the steaks in the skillet. Cook each steak for about 5 minutes on each side and serve. If you have a bag of potato chips, your kids are having a good lunch. Rub the seasoning salt on both side of each cube steak. Next, pour the water into a shallow baking dish, and then place the cube steaks into the baking dish. On each cube steak place some slices of the onion and green pepper.
1 Rub the Mrs. Dash seasoning over both sides of the steak. 2  On 4 inch rack, cook at high power for 15 minutes. 3  Turn and cook at high power 5 minutes for medium rare, 10 minutes for well done. Instructions: 1  Rub oil lightly all over the steak. 2  Rub the Mrs. Dash seasoning over both sides of the steak. 3  On 4 inch rack, cook at high power for 15 minutes. 4  Turn and cook at high power 5 minutes for medium rare, 10 minutes for well done. 5  Enjoy!
1 Brown the cube steaks in 1 tablespoon butter, until browned on both sides. 2  Transfer the browned cube steaks to a covered casserole dish. 3  Saute the onions and Mushrooms in remaining tablespoon butter until softened about 5-6 minutes. 4  Place the mushroom/onion mixture over the browned cube steaks in casserole dish. Directions. 1  Brown the cube steaks in 1 tablespoon butter, until browned on both sides. 2  Transfer the browned cube steaks to a covered casserole dish. 3  Saute the onions and Mushrooms in remaining tablespoon butter until softened about 5-6 minutes. 4  Place the mushroom/onion mixture over the browned cube steaks in casserole dish. 5  Mix the soups until ..
1 Rub oil lightly all over the steak. 2  Rub the Mrs. Dash seasoning over both sides of the steak. 3  On 4 inch rack, cook at high power for 15 minutes. 4  Turn and cook at high power 5 minutes for medium rare, 10 minutes for well done. Instructions: 1  Rub oil lightly all over the steak. 2  Rub the Mrs. Dash seasoning over both sides of the steak. 3  On 4 inch rack, cook at high power for 15 minutes. 4  Turn and cook at high power 5 minutes for medium rare, 10 minutes for well done. 5  Enjoy!
Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring frequently. Let the gravy boil, stirring constantly, until thickened, about 2 minutes. Season generously with pepper and serve the steaks smothered in the gravy. The Lady's House Seasoning: Combine 1 cup salt, 1/4 cup freshly ground black pepper and 1/4 cup garlic powder. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Spray a rimmed baking sheet with cooking spray. Pour the flour onto a dinner plate. In a shallow bowl, whisk together the milk, egg and a few dashes of hot sauce. Place the cornflakes, seasoned with 1 teaspoon of House Seasoning, on a second
Directions. Combine 1 1/2 cups flour and 1/4 teaspoon of pepper in a small bowl. Sprinkle 1 side of the meat with the House Seasoning and the other side with the seasoning salt, and then dredge the meat in the flour mixture. Heat 1/2 cup oil in a large heavy skillet over medium-high heat. Make the gravy by adding the 2 tablespoons remaining flour to the pan drippings, scraping the bottom with a wooden spoon. Stir in the remaining 1/4 teaspoon pepper, and the salt. Reduce the heat to medium and cook, stirring frequently, until the flour is medium brown and the mixture is bubbly.
Set the oven to cook your steaks one side at a time. Use the “HI” power level for each setting. For 1-inch fresh steaks, the cooking times for each side are five to six minutes for rare, six to seven minutes for medium rare, seven to eight minutes for medium and nine to 10 minutes for well-done. Add two minutes to the cooking time for 2-inch fresh steaks. For 1-inch frozen steaks, the cooking times for each side are 11 minutes for rare, 13 minutes for medium rare, 14 minutes for medium and 18 minutes for well-done. Step 2. Place the NuWave cooking rack in the oven so that it sits at the 4-inch height. Make sure that the liner pan is at the base of the oven before positioning the cooking rack.
You will need cube steaks, 1 sliced onion, 1 small green pepper, seasoning salt, and ½ cup of water. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees. Rub the seasoning salt on both side of each cube steak. Next, pour the water into a shallow baking dish, and then place the cube steaks into the baking dish. On each cube steak place some slices of the onion and green pepper. Cover the baking dish with aluminum foil and bake for around 20 to 30 minutes. While the cubes steaks are cooking you have time to prepare macaroni and cheese and a green vegetable or salad. Now, that was easy you prepared dinner in 30 minutes. For other easy cube steak recipes, try cooking on top of the stove