English Meaning: The name Steven is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Steven is: Crown; wreath. American Meaning: The name Steven is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Steven is: Crown; wreath. Greek Meaning: The name Steven is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Steven is: Crown; victorious
Greek Meaning: The name Stephen is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Stephen is: Crown; victorious. English Meaning: The name Stephen is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Stephen is: Crown; wreath. In the bible Stephen was the first Christian martyr. Biblical Meaning: The name Stephen is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Stephen is: Crown; crowned
Origin of the name Steven: From the Latin Stephanus, which is from the Greek Stephanos, a name derived from stephanos (a crown, a garland). The name is borne in the Bible by St Stephen, one of the seven chosen to assist the apostles, and the first Christian martyr. Var: Stefan, Stefen, Stefon, Stephan, Stephon, Stevan, Steven, Stevon. 
Meaning of Steve. English name. In English, the name Steve means-variation of stephen crown, wreath.The name Steve originated as an English name. The name Steve is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-variation of stephen crown, wreath.
Steve is the common short form, while various diminutives such as Stevie and Ste are also used. Many family names are derived from Stephen: the most common are Stephens/Stevens and Stephenson/Stevenson (others include Stephen, Stephan, Staphan, Stefan, Stevin and Stever). 
Stephen /ste-ph-en/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced STEE-ven, STEF-en. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Stephen is garland, crown . From stephanos. Biblical: Stephen was the first Christian martyr. 
Meaning of Stephen. English name. In English, the name Stephen means-Crown; wreath. In the bible Stephen was the first Christian martyr.. Other origins for the name Stephen include-English, Greek.The name Stephen is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Crown; wreath. In the bible Stephen was the first Christian martyr. 
Steve is the English short form of either Stephen or Steven. Saint Stephen is considered the very first Christian martyr in Roman Catholic tradition, so it was he who popularized the name Stephen among pious Christians for centuries thereafter. 
Meaning & History. From the Greek name στεφανος (Stephanos) meaning crown. Saint Stephen was a deacon who was stoned to death, as told in Acts in the New Testament, and he is regarded as the first Christian martyr. Due to him, the name became common in the Christian world. It was popularized in England by the Normans. 