Pi or π is a mathematical constant that is the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter. The constant, sometimes written pi, is approximately equal to 3.14159. I … n more simpler words, if you measure the circumference, and then divide by the diameter of the circle you get the number π. Pi is the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. π is an irrational number, which means that its value cannot be expressed exactly as a fraction, Consequently, its decimal representation never ends or repeats.
Pi is a mathematical ratio symbolized by the Greek letter π. Pi (symbol π) is a mathematical constant whose value is the ratio of any circle's circumference to its diameter in Euclidean space; this is the same value as the ratio of a circle's area to the square of its radius. (Area of a circle = πr2). This number is the same for every circle. Pi is the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. π is an irrational number, which means that its value cannot be expressed exactly as a fraction, Consequently, its decimal representation never ends or repeats.
Pi (π), the 16th letter of the Greek alphabet, is used to represent the most widely known mathematical constant. By definition, pi is the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. In other words, pi equals the circumference divided by the diameter (π = c/d). Conversely, the circumference is equal to pi times the diameter (c = πd). In basic mathematics, pi is used to find area and circumference of a circle. Pi is used to find area by multiplying the radius squared times pi, or. So in trying to find the area of a circle with a radius of 3 centimeters, π3 2 = 28.27 cm.
Pi or is a mathematical constant, one of the first ever discovered. It is the ratio of the distance around a circle to the circle's diameter. This produces a number, and that number is always the same. However, the number is rather strange. 
(Math | Miscellaneous | Constants | PI). Pi is a name given to the ratio of the circumference of a circle to the diameter. That means, for any circle, you can divide the circumference (the distance around the circle) by the diameter and always get exactly the same number. It doesn't matter how big or small the circle is, Pi remains the same. 
Pi is a number that is approximately equal to 3.14. It is the number you get if you divide the circumference of any circle by its diameter. It's the same for all circles. Usually in math we write pi with the Greek letter π, which is the letter p in Greek. You pronounce it pie, like apple pie. It is called pi because π is the first letter of the Greek word perimetros or perimeter. But it was not the Ancient Greeks who first discussed the value of pi.
The number π is a mathematical constant, the ratio of a circle 's circumference to its diameter, commonly approximated as 3.14159. It has been represented by the Greek letter  π  since the mid-18th century, though it is also sometimes spelled out as  pi  (/paɪ/). The symbol used by mathematicians to represent the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter is the lowercase Greek letter π, sometimes spelled out as pi. In English, π is pronounced as pie (/paɪ/ , paɪ).