The Luo people, one of Kenya's largest ethnic groups, live in the Western part of Kenya and their pop music is what epitomizes the original Benga style. Contemporary variations of Benga and Luo traditional music has produced the Ohangla style that is popular with young Luo. 
The themes in Kenyan art represent the daily life and culture of the people of Africa which is greatly reflected through their handicrafts, jewellery, clothes, sculptures, and paintings. In handicrafts particularly, Kenya is known for its traditional, tribal masks, mats, baskets and other products. The art and craft of Kenya has a lucrative tourist market. Kenya also specializes in performing arts such as music, theatre, and literature. Kenya's main cultures are the Swahili Culture which is also the oldest and the Maasai culture. The art and culture of Kenya gives the nation a distinct identity in the world.
The Art of Ethiopia, with a long Christian tradition, is also different from that of most of Africa, where Traditional African religion (with Islam in the north) was dominant until relatively recently. African art, but the continent is full of people, societies and civilizations, each with a unique visual culture. The definition may also include the art of the African Diasporas, such as the art of African Americans.
Sigana is a traditional performance art which contains elements of all the major Kenya art forms: storytelling, song, music, dance, rituals etc. Active participation is a key feature of sigana. Overview of Kenya Art. This page gives a concise overview of the major Kenya art forms: music, dance, Sigana, theatre and performance, literature, cinema, crafts and other Kenya art.
African art is a term typically used for the art of Sub-Saharan Africa. Often, casual observers tend to generalize traditional. African art, but the continent is full of people, societies and civilizations, each with a unique visual culture. The definition may also include the art of the African Diasporas, such as the art of African Americans.
Kenya Arts & Culture. In Kenyan art, as in all African art, themes are based on the representation of daily life and African culture; and reveal the importance behind some of its most beautiful art. Kenya's reputation as a haven for eccentrics and bohemians attracted many independent spirits to Kenya, and produced an interesting body of literature. Beryl Markham's West with the Night is an adventurous and evocative account of her flying, hunting and travelling through Kenya in the first half of the 20th Century.
Sigana. Sigana is a traditional performance art which contains elements of all the major Kenya art forms: storytelling, song, music, dance, rituals etc. Active participation is a key feature of sigana. The line between performers and audience is less clear than in many other Kenya art forms. Overview of Kenya Art. This page gives a concise overview of the major Kenya art forms: music, dance, Sigana, theatre and performance, literature, cinema, crafts and other Kenya art.
Arts and Culture of Kenya. Kenya is a nation with a diverse mix of traditions and cultures. The art and culture of Kenya is extremely unique and is represented through its people, traditions, customs, traditions, society, music and dance. Kenya's main cultures are the Swahili Culture which is also the oldest and the Maasai culture. The art and culture of Kenya gives the nation a distinct identity in the world.
Obviously, this is the clothing of the Kenyan tribes. Kitenge is a popular traditional dress of Kenya which is actually a cotton fabric made into various colors and designed through tie-and-dye and heavy embroidery. Kenya is a place of more than 40 ethnic communities and thus it is a unique African country having rare traditions and culture. Although, Kenya has no specific national dress, yet many acknowledged outfits are particular identification of this African nation that can be assumed as the traditional dress of Kenya.