Replacement. The executor is the individual who guides an estate through the probate process. The presence of an executor is, therefore, critical to proper probate administration. Accordingly, the probate judge assigned to the estate will need to replace the executor as soon as possible after the resignation. The easiest path is when the will instructs the probate judge as to the person who should act as the successor executor. However, not all wills identify a successor executor, which makes the appointment task a bit more burdensome for the probate judge.
If you were named as the executor of a deceased person's will, you are responsible for the duties and legal obligations of handling his estate. Due to the amount of work involved or other personal circumstances, you might have to resign as executor before or after you're appointed by the probate court. If you were already appointed executor by the probate court and are resigning, the court will require you to give a detailed account of all work you performed as executor to date.
Implied Renunciation. You can resign as executor in some states by simply failing to take any action after the testator dies. State laws typically give an executor a deadline in which to file the will with the court -- often 30 days from the date of the testator's death. If the executor fails to file the will in the required time period, another party with an interest in the estate can file instead. Your failure to act as executor in time is viewed by the probate court as a renunciation of your executor duties. If you were already appointed executor by the probate court and are resigning, the court will require you to give a detailed account of all work you performed as executor to date.
Can I Resign As Estate Administrator. My question involves estate proceedings in the state of: TEXAS My brother and I were appointed independent Co-Administrators (submitted COPY of signed/notarized Will to court) of my step-mother's estate. 
Serving as an estate executor is never a compulsory duty; the executor always has the right to resign, no matter what the reason. In fact, executor resignations are a common part of estate administration and the probate process. The easiest path is when the will instructs the probate judge as to the person who should act as the successor executor. However, not all wills identify a successor executor, which makes the appointment task a bit more burdensome for the probate judge.
Save. You can resign as an executor if you can no longer handle the duties or feel uncomfortable with the level of responsibility. The executor of an estate has various legal responsibilities, including disposing of estate assets, transferring shares to heirs, paying the deceased's final bills and filing tax returns. You can resign as an executor if you can no longer handle the duties or feel uncomfortable with the level of responsibility
The practical effect of an executor resigning is that the probate process is put on hold while the judge finds a successor executor. No probate activities take place between the time of resignation and the time of appointment of a successor. The easiest path is when the will instructs the probate judge as to the person who should act as the successor executor. However, not all wills identify a successor executor, which makes the appointment task a bit more burdensome for the probate judge.
File a resignation with the court that appointed you and the court will appoint a successor. Until you do you will be held responsible for the estate. You will be required to file an account that shows your activity while you were executor. If you wish to resign prior to the estate being opened you can file a declination and the court will appoint someone else.
The duty of settling and distributing the estate of a decedent (one who has died) is assigned to personal representatives of the decedent. A Personal Representative may be an executor (male or female) or executrix (female), or administrator (male or female) or administratrix (female). An executor or executrix is the person named in a will to administer the estate. An administrator or administratrix is a person appointed by the court to administer the estate of someone who died without a will. Courts can disqualify as executors persons who are legally incompetent or unsuitable. When this occurs, the court appoints either an alternative executor, if the will has named one, or an administrator. A person cannot be disqualified as an executor merely because he or she might inherit part of