Supergiants are a class of star that are among the most massive and luminous stars found. The Yerkes spectral classification place supergiants with the luminosity classes of 1a (luminous supergiants), 1ab (intermediate luminous supergiants), or 1b (less luminous supergiants). The largest and most luminous supergiants are termed hypergiants with a luminosity class of 0, although the term is loosely defined. Supergiants also vary greatly in their radius, ranging from 30 times the diameter of the sun to over 1000 times.
The most massive blue supergiants are too luminous to retain an extensive atmosphere and they never expand into a red supergiant. The dividing line is approximately 40 M ☉ , although the coolest and largest red supergiants develop from stars with initial masses of 15-25 M ☉ . Supernova progenitors are most commonly red supergiants and it used to be expected that only red supergiants exploded as supernovae. SN 1987A forced a rethink as the progenitor, Sanduleak -69° 202, was a B3 blue
They are evolved, expanded, massive and luminous stars like supergiants, but at the most massive and luminous extreme, and with particular additional properties of undergoing high mass-loss due to their extreme luminosities and instability. Such early O-type supergiants share many features with WNLh Wolf–Rayet stars and are sometimes designated as slash stars, intermediates between the two types. Luminous blue variables (LBVs) are a type of star that occur in the same region of the HR diagram as blue supergiants, but are generally classified separately.
Red Supergiants. A star of 15 solar masses exhausts its hydrogen in about one-thousandth the lifetime of our sun. It proceeds through the red giant phase, but when it reaches the triple-alpha process of nuclear fusion, it continues to burn for a time and expands to an even larger volume. The much brighter, but still reddened star is called a red supergiant. Betelgeuse, at the shoulder of Orion, is the best-known example. Absolute luminosities may reach -10 magnitude compared to +5 for our sun. Some of these supergiants are unstable and form the very important Cepheid variables. 
Supergiants [See Link] are among the most massive of stars. The most luminous Supergiants are often classified as Hypergiants [See Link] they can have masses from 10 to 70 Suns and brightness from 30,000 up to hundreds of thousands times the Sun. In the Yerkes spectral classification supergiants are class Ia (most luminous supergiants) or Ib (less luminous supergiants). They typically have bolometric absolute magnitudes between -5 and -12. The most luminous supergiants are often classified as hypergiants of class 0. Aldeberan is the brightest star in the sky.
Most of the stars in the universe, including our sun, are main sequence stars. There is a lot of variation in the main sequences. The biggest, hottest, and most luminous main sequence stars become supergiants. A star becomes a supergiant when it runs out of hydrogen to burn in its core. Both Deneb and Rigel are blue supergiants that emit blue light. Also found in Orion is the red supergiant star called Betelgeuse. Regel is Orion's left knee, while Betelgeuse stands in for his right shoulder. Another red supergiant star you can see is Antares.
Betelgeuse is a classic example, a bright red star in orion, visible to the naked eye, and which has a diameter 630 times that of the Sun and 14 times as massive. The example pictured above is a supergiant 500 times the diameter of the Sun and about 12 times as massive. Above left, a look at the structure of a supergiant. Outside the hot central region, the envelope of the star is convective and probably turbulent. (Convection is the mixing of fluid as hot fluids rise and cooler fluids sink.
Supergiants are among the most massive and most luminous stars. They occupy the top region of the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram with bolometric absolute magnitudes between −5 and −12 and temperatures from about 3,500K to over 20,000K. Such early O-type supergiants share many features with WNLh Wolf–Rayet stars and are sometimes designated as slash stars, intermediates between the two types. Luminous blue variables (LBVs) are a type of star that occur in the same region of the HR diagram as blue supergiants, but are generally classified separately.
Blue supergiants (BSG s) are hot luminous stars, referred to scientifically as OB supergiants. They have luminosity class I and spectral class B9 or earlier. They are found towards the top left of the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram to the right of the main sequence. Supernova progenitors are most commonly red supergiants and it used to be expected that only red supergiants exploded as supernovae. SN 1987A forced a rethink as the progenitor, Sanduleak -69° 202, was a B3 blue supergiant.
Types of Supergiants. The two most common types are supergiants are blue supergiants, such as Rigel, and red supergiants, such as Betelgeuse. However supergiants can range from spectral type cool, red class M stars to very hot, blue class O stars. The largest and most luminous supergiants are termed hypergiants with a luminosity class of 0, although the term is loosely defined. Supergiants also vary greatly in their radius, ranging from 30 times the diameter of the sun to over 1000 times.