The series was created by Dan Schneider. It focuses on teenager Carly Shay, who creates her own web show called iCarly with her best friends Sam Puckett and Freddie Benson. The show stars Miranda Cosgrove as Carly, Jennette McCurdy as Sam, Nathan Kress as Freddie, Jerry Trainor as Spencer, and Noah Munck as Gibby. It was taped at Nickelodeon on Sunset (season 1–5) and KTLA Studios (Season 6–7) in Hollywood, California. 1 Carly Shay (Miranda Cosgrove) is the host of her own popular web show, iCarly, which she produces with her two best friends, Sam and Freddie. 2  Sam Puckett (Jennette McCurdy) is one of Carly's best friends and co-host of iCarly.
Carly suggests that Sam and Freddie try each other's favorite hobbies; Spencer asks his former babysitter to dinner. Also, Sam and Freddie go see her Uncle Carmine and his friend, Chaz, in prison. Chaz threatens Freddie so Sam and Freddie must come to terms with their relationship. Loading... 
Show Summary. Carly is a teenager who lives with her 29 year old brother and guardian Spencer, and produces her own web show, iCarly, from a studio she constructed in the her apartment. EDIT. Carly is a teenager who lives with her 29 year old brother and guardian Spencer, and produces her own web show, iCarly, from a studio she constructed in the her apartment.
It stars Miranda Cosgrove as Carly Shay, Jennette McCurdy as Sam Puckett, Nathan Kress as Freddie Benson, and Jerry Trainor as Spencer Shay. iCarly is about a girl named Carly who decides to make a web show with her two friends Sam and Freddie (who don't get along too well). Right now, iCarly has 3 TV movies. iCarly is a smash hit TEENick show. It started on Saturday September 8, 2007 and is currently having season 3 episodes. It stars Miranda Cosgrove as Carly Shay, Jennette McCurdy as Sam Puckett, Nathan Kress as Freddie Benson, and Jerry Trainor as ...
The Nickelodeon sitcom iCarly centers on Carly Shay, who creates her own web show with her best friends Sam and Freddie. The series stars Miranda Cosgrove as Carly, Jennette McCurdy as Sam, Nathan Kress as Freddie, Jerry Trainor as Spencer and Noah Munck as Gibby. Carly Shay (Miranda Cosgrove) starts as a 13-year-old girl who lives with her older brother, Spencer, in Seattle, Washington. Carly's best friends are Sam Puckett, Freddie Benson and Gibby Gibson. Carly lives in the Bushwell Plaza in apartment 8-C with her funny, often careless, artist brother Spencer Shay.
Miranda Cosgrove. Carly Shay (Miranda Cosgrove) is a 13-year old girl (18 in Season 5) who is the star of her own popular web show (helped by her two friends, Sam and Freddie), iCarly. Her birthday is on January 14. Carly is the most mature character on the show and is usually the mediator between Sam and Freddie, though Carly and Sam did get into quarrels where Freddie became their mediator. It is revealed in iWanna Stay with Spencer that Carly has asthma.
Carly Shay (born July 24) is the main protagonist of the TV series iCarly, and her own web show, iCarly. She is the younger sister of Spencer Shay and the daughter of Colonel Steven Shay and Mrs. Shay. 