Team velocity is a measure of team's past performance -- how much value they were able to produce in every sprint and it is measured in story points. Velocity is helpful to predict how many stories the team will be able to complete in the next sprint. However, velocity is not the only factor to predict this. 
Part of the Agile, Scrum, XP glossary: Velocity is a metric that predicts how much work an Agile software development team can successfully complete within a two-week sprint (or similar time-boxed period). If the product backlog has 300 story points, and the team is averaging 30 story points per sprint, it can be estimated that team members will require 10 more sprints to complete work.
To calculate velocity, a team first has to determine how many units of work each task is worth and the length of each interval. During development, the team has to keep track of completed tasks and, at the end of the interval, count the number of units of work completed during the interval. 
How to Calculate Velocity of team in Scrum. Velocity of the team in Scrum = Number of total story points / One iteration. By use of the Yesterday’s weather principal it is natural for commit about the same type of backlog items in the next sprint. Before doing this it is necessary to check the history of the Project. According to the scum teams velocity is related with the amount of work done by a team in a given sprint. Team must have to know about the velocity of the team in Scrum, if in any case team does not know about the velocity of team in Scrum, then team has no way to know that how much work to put into upcoming iteration.
To calculate a range around your velocity, you need data for at least five iterations. Enter them in the field at right in any order (lowest to highest, random, most recent first, etc.). You can optionally indicate how many iterations remain in the project. With 90% confidence you can expect to complete between 0 and 0 more units of work with a median value of 0. Please enter the velocity of at least 5 completed sprints. We cannot calculate confidence intervals without at least 5 velocities.
Velocity of the team in Scrum = Number of total story points / One iteration. Let there are total 91 points calculated. So velocity of team in Scrum is 91 points per sprint. By use of the Yesterday’s weather principal it is natural for commit about the same type of backlog items in the next sprint. Before doing this it is necessary to check the history of the Project. According to the scum teams velocity is related with the amount of work done by a team in a given sprint. Team must have to know about the velocity of the team in Scrum, if in any case team does not know about the velocity of team in Scrum, then team has no way to know that how much work to put into upcoming iteration.
What is Velocity in a scrum team. = Number of total story points / One iteration. Velocity is a measurement of how much the team gets done in an iteration (called as Sprint in Scrum). Velocity is what actually got done in the last iteration not what is planned. In Scrum it is measure in Story points. Each feature in scrum is a story. A story has points. Points can be anything you come up with.
For velocity values of N/A. You have a median velocity of 0 and there is a 90% likelihood that your actual velocity will fall between 0 and 0. With 90% confidence you can expect to complete between 0 and 0 more units of work with a median value of 0. Please enter the velocity of at least 5 completed sprints. We cannot calculate confidence intervals without at least 5 velocities.
Velocity is the rate of story points completed by a team. It is expressed as a ratio of story points completed so far in iterations divided by the number of iterations. You can also graph the velocity line on the same chart to show visually if the velocity trend (trending upwards or downwards or staying the same). And I don't care. Each team is comparable only to itself. Velocity is not used as a measure as if we were racing against each other. Velocity is used to help us improve our own timing -- to help us get better and better and speed up, compared only to ourselves.