1 James's surname, Kyson, comes from the first letters of his parents’ surnames (k & y) and the word son. 2  It also means Child of the Spirit. 3  It was originally his middle name, but he changed it to his surname some time after Heroes was cancelled. 4  James does not speak Japanese fluently, but is learning the language. Trivia. 1  Throughout all of Heroes, James Kyson was credited as James Kyson Lee. 2  James's surname, Kyson, comes from the first letters of his parents’ surnames (k & y) and the word son. 3  James does not speak Japanese fluently, but is learning the language. 4  James was a member of the jury for Miss Universe in 2007. 5  James was once part of a Hip Hop ...
Meaning of Kyson. English name. In English, the name Kyson means-son of kyle.The name Kyson originated as an English name. The name Kyson is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-son of kyle. Origin-England.
Tyson is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ty-son. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 282 in baby name popularity for boys with 1262 occurrences. It ranked 18867 in popular baby names for girls with 5 occurrences. View the Tyson Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Tyson has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Tyson to other names. Tyson is a diminutive (nickname) of Tison.
Kyson is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ky-son. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 639 in baby name popularity for boys with 408 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Latin Meaning: The name Payton is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Payton is: Regal. Irish Meaning: The name Payton is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Payton is: Patrician; noble. Scottish Meaning: The name Payton is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Payton is: royal. American Meaning: The name Payton is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Payton is: royal.
Origin of the name Tyson: Transferred use of the English surname derived from the Old French tison (firebrand). Var: Tieson. Short: Tie, Ty. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Kyson: | Edit. We named our little boy Kyson because we could not come to an agreement between Tyson (my husbands fave) and Kaysen (my fave) so i decided that we should be different and name him Kyson. My husband fell in love with it after I said it enough and that is what has stuck!
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kyson in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kyson in Nautical Flags page. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
[ syll. ky-son, kys-on ] The baby boy name Kyson is pronounced K AY SAHN †. Kyson's origin and use are both in the English language. In addition, Kyson is a variant form of the English Tyson. Variant forms of Kyson include the names Kaeson and Kison. Kyson is somewhat popular as a baby boy name. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. 