Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2008). Dermatophytes (derived from Greek δέρματος (dermatos), from δέρμα, which means skin and -phyte, from phuton, phutón meaning) plant are a common label for a group of three types of fungus that commonly causes skin disease in animals and. humans 
1 Dermatophytes are a type of fungus that can grow on the skin, hair, and nails. 2  They don't invade the deeper tissues of the body. 3  The most common dermatophyte, Trichophyton rubrum, causes most cases of athlete's foot. 4  Athlete's foot, in turn, can infect the toenails. 1 You can get infected by contact with objects that have dermatophytes on them, such as clothing, shoes, nail clippers, nail files, shower and locker room floors, and carpet. 2  Dermatophytes cause almost all fungal toenail infections. 3  Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails.
Dermatophytes are fungi that require keratin for growth. These fungi can cause superficial infections of the skin, hair, and nails. Dermatophytes are spread by direct contact from other people (anthropophilic organisms), animals (zoophilic organisms), and soil (geophilic organisms), as well as indirectly from fomites.
Dermatophytes are fungi that require keratin for growth. These fungi can cause superficial infections of the skin, hair, and nails. Dermatophytes are spread by direct contact from other people (anthropophilic organisms), animals (zoophilic organisms), and soil (geophilic organisms), as well as indirectly from fomites.
Dermatophytes are fungal pathogens (…phytes) that cause diseases of the skin (dermato…). These fungi grow as filaments or hyphae, forming molds. Dermatophytes are the causative agent of cutaneous mycoses, including athlete’s foot, ringworm, and nail infections (Figure 1). 
The term  ringworm , commonly used to refer to such infections, is a misnomer, since the condition is caused by fungi of several different species and not by parasitic worms. The fungi that cause parasitic infection (dermatophytes) feed on keratin, the material found in the outer layer of skin, hair, and nails. These fungi thrive on warm and moist skin, but may also survive directly on the outsides of hair shafts or in their interiors.
Dermatophytes are fungi that can cause infections of the skin, hair, and nails due to their ability to utilize keratin. The organisms colonize the keratin tissues and inflammation is caused by host response to metabolic by-products. 
Fungal Nail Infections-Cause. Fungal nail infections can be caused by three different types of fungus, alone or in combination. 1  Dermatophytes are a type of fungus that can grow on the skin, hair, and nails. 2  They don't invade the deeper tissues of the body. 3  The most common dermatophyte, Trichophyton rubrum, causes most cases of athlete's foot. 1 You can get infected by contact with objects that have dermatophytes on them, such as clothing, shoes, nail clippers, nail files, shower and locker room floors, and carpet. 2  Dermatophytes cause almost all fungal toenail infections. 3  Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails.
Dermatophytes (the Greek for skin plants) are a common label for a group of three types of fungus that cause skin, hair and nail disease in animals and humans. These anamorphic (asexual or imperfect fungi) genera are: Microsporum, Epidermophyton and Trichophyton. 