Find the white wire coming from the main service panel and connect it to the white wire on the cable using a wire nut. Screw the switch back to the electric box and re-attach the switch cover. Turn on the main service panel and the switch to test if the light fixture works. What You'll Need. Step 5 – Wiring the Circuit Cable to the Switch. Assuming that a switch is already available and has been wired to the electrical source, turn off the main service panel. Remove the light switch cover and remove the two screws on the switch. Pull the switch off the electrical box. There are two brass screws on the switch. A black wire from the main electric source is connected to one the screws. Strip one inch of the insulation on the black and white wires from the cable
A tester is used to check an electrical circuit before doing any wiring. After hanging a fluorescent lamp in a garage, the next step is connecting the wiring. Typically, you hang the lamp at the area where an existing light was installed and use the existing switched circuit to power the light fixture. Alternatively, an electrician installs a ceiling box and pulls wires to a switch. 5. Connect the bare ends of the white and black romex wires to the corresponding white and black wires in the electrical bow, using wire nuts. To do this, hold the bare ends of similar colored wires alongside each other. Ensure the ends are even and then screw on the nut by hand.
Instructions. Turn off the power at the breaker box. Run the hot wire (black) from your power line to the wall switch. Connect this to the switch on the lower terminal (off) of the switch. Take another appropriate length of wire, connect it to the top switch terminal (on) and run the other end of this wire to the fluorescent light ballast. Run the neutral (white) and ground (green) wires from the power line directly to the fluorescent light fixture
Country: I am installing a fluorescent light fitting in my shed and want to install a one gang, one-way plastic light switch (with plastic back box). I have power coming into my shed from my adjoining garage's light circuit, which is 2.5mm twin & earth cable, so I have a neutral, live and earth coming into the shed. 
1. Turn off the breaker for the light circuit. If the breaker is not labeled or cannot be identified, ask an electrician to identify and turn off the breaker. Work from a stepladder to access the electrical box. 5. Connect the bare ends of the white and black romex wires to the corresponding white and black wires in the electrical bow, using wire nuts. To do this, hold the bare ends of similar colored wires alongside each other. Ensure the ends are even and then screw on the nut by hand.
Instructions. Turn off the main electricity. Attach the electrical wire to your fluorescent light. Make sure you are matching wire color. Run your wire from your light to your switch. Cut to length and strip about 1 inch off. Wire in the switch only with the black wire. Plasti-cap the white wire that comes from the light and that will go to the power source together. Run wire from the switch to either your fuse box if you have a dedicated circuit, or the nearest outlet. Cut to length, and strip 1 inch off. 
Whether you're wiring a single-lamp fluorescent or one that has multiple lamps, certain colored wires in the fixture connect to the black and white wires for the electrical circuit. Wiring a hanging fluorescent light fixture requires a few electrical supplies, some hand tools and the ability to work on a ladder. 5. Connect the bare ends of the white and black romex wires to the corresponding white and black wires in the electrical bow, using wire nuts. To do this, hold the bare ends of similar colored wires alongside each other. Ensure the ends are even and then screw on the nut by hand.
If you mean, can you run the wire from the switch to the first light and then to the second, that's also allowed as long as you make the connections in a legal fashion. Many fixtures will allow you to make the connection inside the fixture. Like Bookmark March 28, 2011 at 5:46AM. Thank you for reporting this comment. 
Shut off the breaker that supplies the voltage to the fluorescent fixture. Wire the new pull chain switch in series with the black incoming wire and the black wire of the ballast. Turn the breaker back on and your switch will now control the off on operation of the light fixture. Find the load wires and connect the black to the bottom screw of the switch. Connect the two remaining white wires together with a wire nut and push them to the back of the switch box. Install the switch into the wall box, replace switch plate cover. Turn the breaker (power) back on.