Millbank Tower is a large, modernistic office complex between the River Thames, Millbank Estate and Tate Britain Gallery. It has several restaurants and a public garden. Millbank Estate is a large but highly regarded Grade II-listed red-brick housing estate that gives the area behind Tate Britain a distinct character. The estate was built between 1897 and 1902, the bricks being recycled from Millbank Prison, which had closed in 1890.
Milbank is a city in Grant County, South Dakota, along the South Fork of the Whetstone River. The population was 3,353 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Grant County. In 1925 The American Legion Department of South Dakota established a new program for high school aged youth that grew into a national program. Milbank is the birthplace of American Legion Baseball played in all fifty states by more than five thousand teams.
The Grant County Review is published weekly and provides extensive coverage of the news, sports, school and social activities in Grant County. Communities in our coverage area include Milbank, Big Stone City, Revillo, LaBolt, Stockholm, Strandburg, Summit, Marvin, Twin Brooks, Corona and Wilmot. 
Millbank is in Perth County, in the province of Ontario. It is on the Nith River. One theory says the community was named Millbank because the mill was built on the edge of a bank. Sections below provide additional information and links about Millbank travel and tourism, maps, recreation, government and transportation.
Welcome to Grant County, South Dakota. Our goal is to provide a one stop information source about Grant County government including how to contact county offices, agencies and organizations. The tiles above, Commission, Elections, Contact, 4H and forms will take you directly to those sections of the website. The Director of Equalization assesses all of the property in Grant County. The Sheriff provides law enforcement, jail services, 911 and 24/7 programs for the County. The Coroner investigates unattended deaths. Emergency Management is responsible for preparing for and overseeing the counties response to disasters.
Our goal is to provide a one stop information source about Grant County government including how to contact county offices, agencies and organizations. The Director of Equalization assesses all of the property in Grant County. The Sheriff provides law enforcement, jail services, 911 and 24/7 programs for the County. The Coroner investigates unattended deaths. Emergency Management is responsible for preparing for and overseeing the counties response to disasters.
Millbank shares the name of the main road (A3212) along the north bank of the River Thames, extending northwards from Vauxhall Bridge to Abingdon Street, just south from Parliament Square. Millbank Estate is a large but highly regarded Grade II-listed red-brick housing estate that gives the area behind Tate Britain a distinct character. The estate was built between 1897 and 1902, the bricks being recycled from Millbank Prison, which had closed in 1890.
Millbank is an area of central London in the City of Westminster. Millbank is located by the River Thames, east of Pimlico and south of Westminster. The area derives its name from a mill house belonging to nearby Westminster Abbey. Millbank Estate is a large but highly regarded Grade II-listed red-brick housing estate that gives the area behind Tate Britain a distinct character. The estate was built between 1897 and 1902, the bricks being recycled from Millbank Prison, which had closed in 1890.
In 1850, a general store was opened by Mr. William Rutherford in what is now Millbank, Ontario. In this enterprise was associated with him Mr. James Reid, now and for nearly fifty years treasurer of Mornington. In 1851, he opened a post office, with himself as postmaster. The building, which is of brick, is now deserted and still stands by the stream, a monumental ruin, significant of the mutability of all human enterprise. In Millbank, also, were a carriage and waggon factory, flax mills, several stores, hotels, and a school in which were three teachers.