Answers. Best Answer: A gotra (lit. cow-pen or cow-shed in archaic rigvedic Sanskrit) is a named family lineage or clan in India. Origins of Gotra The term 'gotra' is applied generally to all the lineages found in various Indian castes. In southern India, gotras are also known as 'bari' (Tulu) or 'illum' (Malayalam). 
So Gotra refers to the Root Person in a person’s male lineage. This Gotra system helps one identify his male lineage and is passed down automatically from Father to Son. But the Gotra system does not get automatically passed down from Father to Daughter. Suppose a person with Gotra Angirasa has a Son. 
In most cases, the system is patrilineal and the gotra assigned is that of the person's father, however in some communities such as the Nairs of Kerala, the gotra is passed through the mother. Other terms for it are vansh, vanshaj, bedagu, purvik, purvajan, pitru. 3.In most cases, the system is patrilineal and the gotra assigned is that of the person's father.however in some communities the gotra is passed through the mother. 4.
2.So,A gotra is the lineage or clan assigned to a Hindu at birth. 3.In most cases, the system is patrilineal and the gotra assigned is that of the person's father.however in some communities the gotra is passed through the mother. 4.Other terms for it are vansh, vanshaj, bedagu, purvik, purvajan, pitru.
Gotra is the term applied to a clan, a group of families, or a lineage-exogamous and patrilineal-whose members trace their descent to a common ancestor, usually a sage of ancient times. A gotra is of immense importance to a Hindu for it shores up his identity. All Hindu ceremonies require a statement of the gotra. 3.In most cases, the system is patrilineal and the gotra assigned is that of the person's father.however in some communities the gotra is passed through the mother. 4.Other terms for it are vansh, vanshaj, bedagu, purvik, purvajan, pitru.
In Hindu society, the term gotra means clan. It broadly refers to people who are descendants in an unbroken male line from a common male ancestor or patriline. Generally the gotra forms an exogamous unit, with the marriage within the same gotra being prohibited by custom, being regarded as incest. In almost all Hindu families, marriage within the same gotra is prohibited, since people with same gotra are considered to be siblings or cousins. But marriage within the jaati is allowed and even preferred. In Jatt and Gujjar caste marriage within people from same gotra as self, mother and grandmother is not practiced.
191,916 pages on this wiki. Template:Hinduism small A Gotra is the lineage or clan assigned to a Hindu at birth. In most cases, the system is patrilineal and the gotra assigned is the gotra of the person's father. Other names used to refer to it are Vansh, Vanshaj, Bedagu, Purvik, Purvajan, Pitru.
A Gotra is the lineage or clan assigned to a Hindu at birth. In most cases, the system is patrilineal and the gotra assigned is that of the person's father. Other names used to refer to it are Vansh, Vanshaj, Bedagu, Purvik, Purvajan, Pitru. An individual may decide to identify his lineage by a different gotra, or combination of gotras. 
Importance of Son in the Gotra System. This Gotra system helps one identify his male lineage and is passed down automatically from Father to Son. But the Gotra system does not get automatically passed down from Father to Daughter. Suppose a person with Gotra Angirasa has a Son. The Gotra is a system which associates a person with his most ancient or root ancestor in an unbroken male lineage. For instance if a person says that he belongs to the Bharadwaja Gotra then it means that he traces back his male ancestry to the ancient Rishi (Saint or Seer) Bharadwaja.