Infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is common and usually occurs in childhood or early adulthood. EBV is the cause of infectious mononucleosis (also termed  mono ), an illness associated with fever, sore throat, swollen lymph nodes in the neck, and sometimes an enlarged spleen. It is also know an human herpes virus 4. Less commonly, EBV can cause more serious disease.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a virus that typically causes a mild to moderate illness. These tests detect antibodies to EBV in the blood and help establish a diagnosis of an EBV infection. Epstein-Barr virus causes an infection that is very common. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), as many as 95% of people in the United States will have been infected by EBV by the time they are 40 years old. The virus is easily passed from person to person.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), also known as human herpesvirus 4, is a member of the herpes virus family. It is one of the most common human viruses. EBV is found all over the world. Most people get infected with EBV at some point in their lives. EBV spreads most commonly through bodily fluids, primarily saliva. EBV can cause infectious mononucleosis, also called mono, and other illnesses.
The Epstein–Barr virus (EBV), also called human herpesvirus 4 (HHV-4), is one of eight viruses in the herpes family, and is one of the most common viruses in humans. In the United States and other developed countries, many people are not infected with EBV in their childhood years. When infection with EBV occurs during adolescence, it causes infectious mononucleosis 35 to 50 percent of the time.
In adolescents and adults, it causes an illness known as infectious mononucleosis between 35 and 50 percent of the time. The virus is spread through saliva or upper respiratory secretions and cannot be spread through contact with the blood. The Epstein-Barr virus test is a blood test used to identify an EBV infection. The test detects the presence of antibodies, which are proteins that your body’s immune system releases in response to a harmful substance, called an antigen. Specifically, the EBV test is used to detect antibodies to EBV antigens. 
Epstein-Barr Virus Infection Causes and Risk Factors. EBV is a contagious virus that is transmitted from person to person and occurs throughout the world. The cause of infection is generally close person-to-person contact through bodily fluids, especially saliva.
Definition. Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) is a common human virus that causes infectious mononucleosis and plays a role in the emergence of two rare forms of cancer: Burkitt's lymphoma, and nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Some doctors and medical textbooks describe and diagnose EBV as infectious mononucleosis and vise-versa. Epstein-Barr virus is in the herpes family of viruses and most people will become infected with EBV sometimes during their lives. In the United States, as many as 95 percent of adults between 35 and 40 years of age have been infected.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a member of the herpesvirus group, is the etiologic agent of infectious mononucleosis. EBV infections are difficult to diagnose in the laboratory since the virus does not grow in standard cell cultures. 
The Epstein-Barr virus, also called EBV, is an extremely common virus that infects most people at one time or another during their lifetimes. Epstein-Barr virus infection generally causes a minor cold-like or flu-like illness, but, in some cases, there may be no symptoms of infection. 