The pupil is a hole located in the center of the iris of the eye that allows light to strike the retina. It appears black because light rays entering the pupil are either absorbed by the tissues inside the eye directly, or absorbed after diffuse reflections within the eye that mostly miss exiting the narrow pupil. 
Iris and Pupil. The iris, which is the colored part of the eye, controls the amount of light that enters the eye. The iris is a ring shaped tissue with a central opening, which is called the pupil.
Pupil: The opening of the iris. The pupil may appear to open (dilate) and close (constrict), but it is really the iris that is the prime mover; the pupil is merely the absence of iris. The pupil determines how much light is let into the eye. Both pupils are usually of equal size. If they are not, the condition is called anisocoria
pupil. the opening in the center of the iris through which light enters the eye; see also Plate 17. Adie's pupil tonic pupil. Argyll Robertson pupil one that is miotic and responds to accommodation effort, but not to light. fixed pupil a pupil that does not react either to light or on convergence, or in accommodation. Etymology: L, pupa, doll. a circular opening in the iris of the eye, located slightly to the nasal side of the center of the iris. Like the iris, the pupil lies posterior to the cornea and the anterior chamber of the eye and is anterior to the lens. Its diameter changes with contraction and relaxation of the muscular fibers of the iris as the eye responds to changes in light, emotional states, and autonomic stimul
The pupil of the eye is the dark middle of the eye surrounded by the colored ring of the iris. It's actually a hole, and the light that passes through the lens is absorbed by the tissues in the back of the eye, giving the pupil it's black look. The pupil of the eye is the black circle in the center of your iris. The iris is the colored ring in your eye whose color and structure is as individual as you are. From the outside of the eye, light passes through the clear lens, then through the hole that is the pupil.
But this hole has a lot to do with how you see. The pupil of the eye is the black circle in the center of your iris. The iris is the colored ring in your eye whose color and structure is as individual as you are. From the outside of the eye, light passes through the clear lens, then through the hole that is the pupil.
See Puppet, and cf. Pupil of the eye. (Science: anatomy) The aperture in the iris; the sight, apple, or black of the eye. See the note under Eye, and iris. (Science: medicine) pin-hole pupil, the pupil of the eye when so contracted (as it sometimes is in typhus, or opium poisoning) as to resemble a pin hole. Origin: F. Pupille, n. Fem, L. Pupilla the pupil of the eye, originally dim. Of pupa a girl. 
2. pupil-the contractile aperture in the center of the iris of the eye; resembles a large black dot. iris-muscular diaphragm that controls the size of the pupil which in turn controls the amount of light that enters the eye; it forms the colored portion of the eye. aperture-a natural opening in something. The apparently black circular opening in the center of the iris of the eye, through which light passes to the retina. [Middle English, from Old French. , from Latin. , little doll, pupil of the eye (from the tiny image reflected in it) ; see pupil 1 .].