As to fertilizer, the nutrient balance recommended for palms is 8-4-12. This is a fertilizer with more nitrogen (8 percent) than phosphorus (4 percent) and more potassium (12 percent) than either. Apply it at the highest rate and frequency recommended on the label. Maybe your palm will adapt. And it might. However, majestic palms are not a shoo-in outdoors either. They are greedy for water. They also have a very high need for fertilizer. Your palm most likely has yellowing leaves either because it is not adequately watered, or because it lacks fertilizer, or for both reasons.
Majesty palms can withstand temperatures as low as 26 degrees Fahrenheit, but. be sure to err on the side of caution and try not to expose it to temperatures that. low. 
Hello everyone, I have a beautiful Majesty Palm out on my deck and the temperature at night is starting to get cold. This palm is way too big to bring indoors. I know the thing only cost $20.00 at Costco but this palm has thrived this summer. I even planted plants around the bottom.
Step 1. Plant the majestic palm tree in an area that will receive full sun for at least eight hours per day. If you live in an area that experiences extreme temperature highs, plant the tree in a partially shaded area, as the roots can dry out easily. Do not fertilize during the winter; this will give the tree some time to rest. Use a fertilizer that is designed for palm trees. This type of fertilizer can be purchased at your local garden specialty store.
Majesty palm (Ravenea glauca) is hardy only in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 10 through 11, so it only grows in a few areas. This plant is also somewhat small, growing only to a maximum of approximately 20 feet, and is adapted to life as an understory palm. 1 Do not sprinkle turf fertilizer on the lawn where your majesty palm tree is growing. 2  Turf fertilizer may cause nutrient deficiencies in the palm tree. 3  As your tree becomes more established, it will spread roots as far as 40 or 50 feet from the tree.
Published 4:00 am, Wednesday, June 20, 2007. Q: We recently moved into a new house by the old naval air station in Alameda. It is pretty windy. We took a palm (labeled 'majesty') that had been intended as a houseplant and planted it in a sunny spot -- our teenager thinks it would be fun to watch it grow, and so do we. Maybe your palm will adapt. And it might. However, majestic palms are not a shoo-in outdoors either. They are greedy for water. They also have a very high need for fertilizer. Your palm most likely has yellowing leaves either because it is not adequately watered, or because it lacks fertilizer, or for both reasons.
The Majesty Palm requires bright light. It is best to keep the palm in an area where it will not receive a lot of direct sunlight. Indoors, a south or east facing window would be ideal. The Ravenea Rivularis is a genus from the Ravenea Palms Family and is the only cultivated palm from that family. The Majesty Palm originates from the island nation of Madagascar off the South Eastern Coast of Africa.
With their large, sheltering sprays of leaves, majestic or majesty palm trees provide shade and diversity to the home landscape. Originating in Madagascar, these fast-growing trees can reach a height of 40 feet. Do not fertilize during the winter; this will give the tree some time to rest. Use a fertilizer that is designed for palm trees. This type of fertilizer can be purchased at your local garden specialty store.
The majestic palm will tolerate temperatures down to 20 degrees Fahrenheit, but an indoor plant accustomed to warmer temperatures can suffer damage if you put it out too early in the summer. Wait until nighttime temperatures are consistently above 50 F before you move your majestic palm outside in spring. Don't move this palm out into the sun. The majestic palm needs filtered shade or the leaves will burn, and when accustomed to filtered indoor light, it will be even more susceptible to bright sun. Summer is a great time to air out an indoor majestic palm (Ravenea rivularis) by moving it outside, but before dragging your palm into the sun, make sure the temperature is right and the spot outside won't scorch the leaves.