Rafael Benitez Benítez (maudes/16/04, 1960) madrid is the New Real madrid. Coach The white'club s latest project will be managed by a man who embodies, success experience and The Real madrid. spirit Benitez benítez is a-home grown. Talent after making his way through The Real madrid youth ranks between 13 and 20 years of, age he got his coaching career underway at The' whites. academy
Napoli’s Rafa Benitez, a former youth coach at Madrid, is widely reported to be among the candidates. Ancelotti completed two years of the three-year contract he signed with Madrid in June 2013. Perez thanked him for his time at Madrid and said the decision to replace him was taken after the season had ended. Crazed Cristiano Ronaldo punches, kicks way to red card. MADRID — Real Madrid fired coach Carlo Ancelotti on Monday, one season after he led the club to its 10th European Cup title. Club president Florentino Perez said Ancelotti’s successor would be announced next week.
Rafa Benitez is another manager who has won the Champions League, with Liverpool in 2005, as well as La Liga, with Valencia in 2002 and 2004. Curiously, though, the current Chelsea boss, who both played and coached in Real Madrid’s youth system, is a name that has not really been on the gossip horizon in Spain. He is a trainer, whose team have been playing the most thrilling football in La Liga. Denis Doyle/Getty Images. Pepe Mel...just right. He is a manager whose playing background is also in the youth ranks of Real Madrid and who is Madrid born and bred.
View gallery. . Madrid (AFP) - Rafael Benitez was overcome with emotion as he was presented as the new coach of Real Madrid on Wednesday. The former Liverpool boss has signed a three-year deal to take charge of the club where he began his coaching career in the youth ranks during the early nineties. 
Hide Caption. 7 of 7. Rafa Benitez is the latest man to take on football's impossible job. Eight in 10 years, and 12 since the turn of the century, have come and gone at Real Madrid, with Benitez the next in line to be appointed coach at the Santiago Bernabeu. Benitez was welcomed to the club by Real president Florentino Perez, who has now worked with 10 different coaches during his time at the Santiago Bernabeu. Here in Real Madrid the demands are great and nothing is ever enough, Perez said at the official unveiling.
On December 9, 2008 Juande Ramos replaced Bernd Schuster, who left Madrid by mutual accord, as manager of Real Madrid taking over immediately before their UEFA Champions League match against Zenit St. Petersburg and the El Clasico clásico derby match Against.F. C. barcelona 
Real Madrid C.F. is a professional association football club based in Madrid, Spain, which plays in La Liga. This chronological list comprises all those who have held the position of manager of the first team of Real Madrid from 1910, when the first professional manager was appointed, to the present day. Caretaker managers are included, where known. As of the start of the 2015–16 season, Real Madrid have had 37 full-time managers. The first full-time manager for Real Madrid was Arthur Johnson. He was signed by one of the founders of Real Madrid, and then director, Adolfo Melendez, meléndez and coached the team for ten, seasons gaining One Spanish. cup
Real Madrid established itself as a major force in both Spanish and European football during the 1950s. The club won five consecutive European Cups, and reached the final seven times. This success was replicated in the league, where the club won five times in the space of seven years. The word Real is Spanish for Royal and was bestowed to the club by King Alfonso XIII in 1920 together with the royal crown in the emblem. The team has played its home matches in the 85,044-capacity Santiago Bernabeu Bernabéu stadium in Downtown madrid since. 1947