Prints and posters are ideal for laminating. However, lamination is permanent, so once a print or poster is laminated, it cannot be undone. Collectible or valuable items should not be laminated. Posters of prints you would like to frame at a later date should not be laminated. Laminating is an inexpensive way to protect maps, drawings, aeronautical and nautical charts, the output from pen plotters, posters-in fact, just about anything. We use a 3-millimetre two-sided laminate which allows you to roll, or even fold your maps after they have been
And these are our top world maps.This elegant mahogany frame is a welcome addition to any room. Add to that, only the finest maps of our collection and you'll see why these framed maps are such a great value. All these maps come with a laminated surface so you write on them with a dry erase marker and wipe it off. They are mounted on foam core so you can easily stick map pins in the map. We make these maps up on demand, so please give us a few days to prepare them for shipment and to build a crate
We can turn any fold map or wall map into a laminated wall map or a mounted and laminated wall map. We also offer laminating and mounting service for any of you own paper products. So if you see a map that does'nt show a LAMINATED MAP PRICE or would like to laminate your map or other document contact us and we will be happy to give you a quote. We offer a 24 hour turn around on all small order lamination and mounting service. You may order by phone, fax, or e-mail.
With a smooth surface, you can use the map like a dry erase board to mark locations, directions and distances. When finished, simply wipe the map clean. Back a laminated map with a foam board so that you can mount it on a wall like a picture frame but still retain the interactive capability with the laminated surface. Things You'll Need. Take the map to a business that laminates large items if you do not currently own or have access to a laminating machine. Laminating machines can be expensive and take up a lot of space. If you choose to laminate the map yourself, slide the map through the print roller while the machine is on.
1 Of course, you could just get the poster or map laminated, and use tape, but this way is cheaper and the map is easier to store between times if it's not fully laminated. 2  Use tacks but only put the sides of the tacks on it, not the point. 1 If your poster or map is too heavy for this method, you can do a similar thing on the front. 2  Put tape on the front of the corners (all the way to the edge) and then tape it to the wall but put the tape over your laminated corner. 3  Use magnets
Hey..lamination and mounting isn't just for maps ya know. If it is flat we can laminate it or mount it or frame it or...well that's about all we can do with it, but since this is the worlds most incredible run on sentence I'm just going to keep on going and say any job big or small we can handle. OK so that's a lie. So if you see a map that does'nt show a LAMINATED MAP PRICE or would like to laminate your map or other document contact us and we will be happy to give you a quote. We offer a 24 hour turn around on all small order lamination and mounting service. You may order by phone, fax, or e-mail.
To adhere the poster/map to the foam board, we decided to use spray adhesive. Lay the board on a tarp so you don’t spray the adhesive onto your floors {and just wipe it off with a damp cloth when it does happen}, and spray away. To keep the map down we used binder clips to secure it to the board. This is the profile of that trim. Buy enough to cover all sides and paint the trim. It’s important to do this before as once you put the frame together it might be a bit hard to spray or paint. Miter the corners of the pieces to fit the length of the width and height of your poster ad best you can.
1 Use tacks but only put the sides of the tacks on it, not the point. 2  If your poster or map is too heavy for this method, you can do a similar thing on the front. 3  Put tape on the front of the corners (all the way to the edge) and then tape it to the wall but put the tape over your laminated corner. 4  Use magnets. 1 If your poster or map is too heavy for this method, you can do a similar thing on the front. 2  Put tape on the front of the corners (all the way to the edge) and then tape it to the wall but put the tape over your laminated corner. 3
Reply @ Bethany, The map wasn't heavily laminated but it did have a coating on it. I didn't wrap any part of the map around the canvas so it was fairly easy just to cut out to size and apply the glue. Do a google search for maps, sometimes you can really find a steal. 