How to change your email password on your iPhone. With Mail on iPhone 4, wherever you go, your email goes too. iPhone works with popular email providers including Yahoo! Mail, Gmail, and AOL — and most industry-standard IMAP and POP mail systems. 
If you use iCloud for your email, you have the option of picking a new password directly on the phone itself, but for other email providers, change your password on a computer and enter the new password on your iPhone when it automatically prompts you. Open the iOS 8 Settings app and tap Mail, Contacts, Calendars. Pick the account you want to update from the list of accounts. On the following page, tap your email address at the top of the screen. If you choose an iCloud account, the phone prompts you to log in with your current password. The list includes all accounts, including those not used for mail
If you want to change your password. If you know your Apple ID password and want to change it, follow these steps: 1  Go to My Apple ID. 2  Click Manage your Apple ID and sign in. 3  If you have two-step verification turned on, you'll be asked to send a verification code to the trusted device associated with your Apple ID. 1 In the Choose a new password section, click Change Password. 2  Enter your old password, then enter a new password and confirm the new password. 3  Click Change Password when done. 4  Sign in with your new Apple ID password to access Apple features and services.
Changing Your E-mail Password on the iPhone. A. On your iPhone: 1. Tap on Settings. 2. Tap on Mail, Contacts, Calendars. 3. Tap your email address for which you want to change the password. 4. Change password. 5. Press the Home Button to return to the Home Screen.
You can learn how to change your email password on the iPhone 5 by following the steps laid out below. Step 1: Touch the Settings icon. Step 2: Scroll down and select the Mail, Contacts, Calendars option. Step 3: Select the email account for which you want to change the password. Step 4: Touch the Account button at the top of the screen. Step 5: Tap inside the Password field. Step 6: Delete the current password, replace it with the new password, then touch the Done butt
Change your Apple ID password. Follow these steps to change your Apple ID password. Your Apple ID is the account you use for everything you do with Apple, like shopping the iTunes Store, signing in to iCloud, buying an app, and more. Follow these steps to change your password. 1 In the Choose a new password section, click Change Password. 2  Enter your old password, then enter a new password and confirm the new password. 3  Click Change Password when done. 4  Sign in with your new Apple ID password to access Apple features and services.
Thank you for contacting us here in Microsoft Community. I see that you want to reset password for your Outlook.com account using mobile. You can change your password by signing in to your account using a web browser on your mobile device. Remember that you need to re-configure the password for your Outlook.com account in the mail app you have for your mobile device. I hope this helps. Should you have further questions, please let us know. Thank you.
Outlook.com is the new name for Microsoft's web email service, formerly known as Hotmail and Windows Live Mail. If you have a Hotmail account, you can still access it through the Outlook.com website. You can change your password from your account settings or you can have your password reset if you can't remember it. If you don't have a recovery account associated with your Hotmail account, you will need to fill out a questionnaire so that Microsoft can verify your identity. Enter in your current password, and then enter a new password. There are three fields in the “Change your password” page. The first is for your old password, and the second two are for your new password. You will need to enter the new password twice in order to confirm it. Click the Save button.