Tobacco smoke is a mixture of gases and particles. It contains more than 7,000 chemical compounds. More than 250 of these chemicals are known to be harmful, and at least 69 are known to cause cancer. 
Harmful and useful effects of gases in the air? The atmosphere is composed of: Nitrogen (78.8%), Oxygen (20.95%), Argon (0.93%), Carbon dioxide (0.038%) and other gases (percentages by volume proportion). Oxygen … in its O3 form protects the planet from ultraviolet radiation (ozone layer) and in its O2 form Oxygen is essential to most forms of life. Ozone is known to cause cancer, and is used to kill bacteries.
Particulate matter. Solid or liquid matter that is suspended in the air. To remain in the air, particles usually must be less than 0.1-mm wide and can be as small as 0.00005 mm. Particulate matter can be divided into two types—coarse particles and fine particles. Near the ground (the troposphere), it is a major part of smog. The harmful ozone in the lower atmosphere should not be confused with the protective layer of ozone in the upper atmosphere (stratosphere), which screens out harmful ultraviolet rays.
An air pollutant is a substance in the air that can have adverse effects on humans and the ecosystem. The substance can be solid particles, liquid droplets, or gases. A pollutant can be of natural origin or man-made. Other examples include carbon monoxide gas from motor vehicle exhaust, or the sulfur dioxide released from factories. Secondary pollutants are not emitted directly. Rather, they form in the air when primary pollutants react or interact.
The particles are known as pollution, aerosols, or particulates,  and the harmful gases might be anthropocentric greenhouse gases  like carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4 …). found this useful. 
The answer is that ANY gas can cause harm to the environment. Even Nitrogen and Oxygen can do so if the concentrations get too high. The big … issue gases that cities have right now though are Nitrous Oxides, Carbon Monoxide, Sulfur Dioxide and Ozone. Oxygen … in its O3 form protects the planet from ultraviolet radiation (ozone layer) and in its O2 form Oxygen is essential to most forms of life. Ozone is known to cause cancer, and is used to kill bacteries.
The atmosphere is composed of: Nitrogen (78.8%), Oxygen (20.95%), Argon (0.93%), Carbon dioxide (0.038%) and other gases (percentages by volume proportion). Oxygen in its O3 form protects the planet from ultraviolet radiation (ozone layer) and in its O2 form Oxygen is essential to most forms of life. Ozone is known to cause cancer, and is used to kill bacteries. Nitrogen is part of all biological organisms, taking part in the genetic compounds, and is essential to life. Other gases such as the various oxides of Sulphur and Nitrogen can dissolve in water to form Acid Rain which can cause serious damage to plants, water system and can also be a major cause of erosion of rocks, both in nature and when they have been used as building material.
Sulphur dioxide, or. , belongs to a family of sulphur oxide gases (SO x). It is formed from the sulphur contained in raw materials such as coal, oil and metal-containing ores during combustion and refining processes.
My house has solar hot water, solar PV panels and rainwater tanks, my garden has chickens, compost, guinea pigs and worm farms. The particles are known as pollution, aerosols, or particulates, and the harmful gases might be anthropocentric greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4). Oxygen … in its O3 form protects the planet from ultraviolet radiation (ozone layer) and in its O2 form Oxygen is essential to most forms of life. Ozone is known to cause cancer, and is used to kill bacteries.
Air pollution risk is a function of the hazard of the pollutant and the exposure to that pollutant. Air pollution exposure can be expressed for an individual, for certain groups (e.g. neighborhoods or children living in a county), or for entire populations. Other examples include carbon monoxide gas from motor vehicle exhaust, or the sulfur dioxide released from factories. Secondary pollutants are not emitted directly. Rather, they form in the air when primary pollutants react or interact.