(NAA: M1406, 13). Australia became a nation on 1 January 1901, when the six colonies federated. The legal basis for Federation was provided by the Australian Constitution, which sets out the basic rules for our system of government. It tells us how power is shared and exercised by our political and legal institutions. 
Australia became an independent nation on 1 January 1901 when the British Parliament passed legislation allowing the six Australian colonies to govern in their own right as part of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Australia became a nation on 1 January 1901, when the six colonies federated to become the Commonwealth of Australia. There were many arguments in favour of Federation of th … e colonies. There were several reasons for Australia to become a nation, so the states federated in 1901. Reasons for federation included: Trade: There were steep tariffs imposed on the t … ransport of goods across the borders of the states.
The Federation of Australia was the process by which the six separate British self-governing colonies of Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, South Australia, and Western Australia agreed to unite and form the Commonwealth of Australia, establishing a system of federalism in Australia. The self-governing colonies of Queensland, Tasmania and Victoria, as well as the Crown Colonies of Western Australia and Fiji, became involved. South Australia was briefly a member between 1888 and 1890.
Prior to 1901, Australia was made up of six self-governing  colonies; New South Wales, … Victoria, South Australia, Queensland,  Western Australia and Tasmania. These colonies were under British  rule from the time the First Fleet landed, in 1788, until 1901. Australia reached the next stage of independence on 3 March 1986, when the Australia Acts came into effect. The Australia Acts declared that Australia had the status of a Sovereign, Independent and Federal Nation.
Prior to 1901, Australia was made up of six self-governing colonies; New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, West … ern Australia and Tasmania. These colonies were ultimately under British rule from the time the First Fleet landed, in 1788, until 1901. There were several reasons for Australia to become a nation, so the states federated in 1901. Reasons for federation included: Trade: There were steep tariffs imposed on the t … ransport of goods across the borders of the states.
Australia became a nation on 1 January 1901 when six British colonies—New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania—united to form the Commonwealth of Australia. This process is known as federation. 
Federation of the states in Australia occurred on 1 January 1901. However, this was not when Australia became an independent nation. Although the Constitution of the Commonwea … lth of Australia came into effect at Federation, this did not mean that Australia was now independent of Britain. Australia reached the next stage of independence on 3 March 1986, when the Australia Acts came into effect. The Australia Acts declared that Australia had the status of a Sovereign, Independent and Federal Nation.
There is no simple answer to that question. Prior to 1901, Australia was made up of six self-governing colonies; New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. These colonies were ultimately under British rule from the time the First Fleet landed, in 1788, until 1901. Australia reached the next stage of independence on 3 March 1986, when the Australia Acts came into effect. The Australia Acts declared that Australia had the status of a Sovereign, Independent and Federal Nation.
Federation of the states in Australia occurred on 1 January 1901. However, this was not when Australia became an independent nation. Although the Constitution of the Commonwea … lth of Australia came into effect at Federation, this did not mean that Australia was now independent of Britain. There were several reasons for Australia to become a nation, so the states federated in 1901. Reasons for federation included: Trade: There were steep tariffs imposed on the t … ransport of goods across the borders of the states.