The latitude of each point on the Equator equals 0°. The Equator divides the Earth's surface into the Northern and the Southern Hemispheres. The points that lie north of the Equator belong to the Northern Hemisphere. The points that lie south of the Equator belong to the Southern Hemisphere. 3) We calculate the distance between a point on the Earth's surface and the Equator as the length of the arc of the meridian passing through this point and crossing the Equator.
Is Sudan close to the equator? The southern border of Sudan is about 370 km from the equator, Kartoum the capital is about 1,700 km from the equator and the northern border of Sudan about 2,400 km from the … equator. Answer #1:   No, Canada is a long distance north of the equator.   =====   Answer #2:   Close is one of those rubber words ... it means different things  to … different   people, and can mean different things to the same person at  different times   or in different situations.
China is north of the equator. China extends from around 20 degrees to around 50 degrees. The southern most point of China is about 1400 mi (2250 km) from the equator.   Ev … en though the most southern point of China is about 2300km away from the equator, some part of China passes through the equator. Answer #1:   No, Canada is a long distance north of the equator.   =====   Answer #2:   Close is one of those rubber words ... it means different things  to … different   people, and can mean different things to the same person at  different times   or in different situations.
By Amanda Briney. The Southern Hemisphere is the southern portion or half of the Earth (map). It begins at the equator at 0° and continues south into higher latitudes until it reaches 90°S or the South Pole in the middle of Antarctica. The majority of Earth's population and its largest cities are in the Northern Hemisphere, although there are large cities such as Lima, Peru, Cape Town, South Africa, Santiago, Chile, and Auckland, New Zealand.
The Galapagos penguin (Spheniscus mendiculus) is a penguin endemic to the Galapagos Islands. It is the only penguin that lives north of the equator in the wild. It can survive due to the cool temperatures resulting from the Humboldt Current and cool waters from great depths brought up by the Cromwell Current. The Galapagos penguin is one of the banded penguins, the other species of which live mostly on the coasts of Africa and mainland South America.
Distance between Lima, Peru and the Equator. 1341 km = 833 miles. During our calculation of the distance to the Equator we made three assumptions. 1) We assumed a spherical Earth as a close approximation of the true shape of the Earth (an oblate spheroid). 3) We calculate the distance between a point on the Earth's surface and the Equator as the length of the arc of the meridian passing through this point and crossing the Equator.
The Equator is an imaginary line on the Earth's surface created by the intersection of a plane, orthogonal to the Earth's axis and passing through the Earth's centre, with the Earth's surface. The Equator is the longest circle of latitude or parallel on the Earth's surface. 3) We calculate the distance between a point on the Earth's surface and the Equator as the length of the arc of the meridian passing through this point and crossing the Equator.
The southern border of Sudan is about 370 km from the equator, Kartoum the capital is about 1,700 km from the equator and the northern border of Sudan about 2,400 km from the … equator. 2 people found this useful. Answer #1:   No, Canada is a long distance north of the equator.   =====   Answer #2:   Close is one of those rubber words ... it means different things  to … different   people, and can mean different things to the same person at  different times   or in different situations.
Cuba is roughly about 1,500 statue miles north of the equator. The capital of Havana is about 1,600 miles north, and the city of Santiago de Cuba (on the island's southern coa … st) is a little less than 1,400 miles north. Answer #1:   No, Canada is a long distance north of the equator.   =====   Answer #2:   Close is one of those rubber words ... it means different things  to … different   people, and can mean different things to the same person at  different times   or in different situations.