As a cancer grows, new and different types of breast cancer cells are created within that same cancer. The mixture of cells that builds up over time becomes more and more complex. So even though every cell of a cancer is related to the same original parent cell, all the cells that make up a cancer are not the same. The idea that different kinds of cells make up one cancer is called tumor heterogeneity.. By the time a breast cancer tumor is one centimeter (less than half an inch), the millions of cells that make up the lump are very different from each other
Types of breast cancers. Breast cancer can be separated into different types based on the way the cancer cells look under the microscope. Most breast cancers are carcinomas, a type of cancer that starts in the cells (epithelial cells) that line organs and tissues like the breast. In fact, breast cancers are often a type of carcinoma called adenocarcinoma, which is carcinoma that starts in glandular tissue. Other types of cancers can occur in the breast, too, such as sarcomas, which start in the cells of muscle, fat, or connective tissue. And in some rarer types of breast cancer, the cancer cells may not form a tumor at all. Breast cancer can also be classified based on proteins on or in the cancer cells, into groups like hormone receptor-positive or triple-negative.
The differences among cancer cells (tumor heterogeneity) is why your pathology report, blood tests, and other tests can be so complicated and why there are so many different treatments for breast cancer. Because the cancer cells can be so different, what kills one type of cell might not do anything to another. The differences in cancer cells are why two people with breast cancer may have completely different treatment plans. You may meet other people in the waiting room before your exams or therapies.
1 How different your cancer cells look from normal cells is called your cancer's grade. 2  Breast cancers are graded on a 1 to 3 scale, with grade 3 cancers being the most different looking and considered the most aggressive. Breast cancer types: What your type means. Not all breast cancers are the same. Understand what type of breast cancer you have and how it differs from other types of breast cancer.
Cancer Types. Use the alphabet links to find and retrieve information about a particular type of cancer. (The A to Z list is also available in Spanish 1  .). A. 2  B. 3  C. 4  D. 5  E. 6  F. 7  G. 8  H.
Not included in the above types listed are metastatic cancers; this is because metastatic cancer cells usually arise from a cell type listed above and the major difference from the above types is that these cells are now present in a tissue from which the cancer cells did not originally develop. 
And each cancer has its own genetic identity, or fingerprint, created by the DNA in its cells. So two people with breast cancer who are the same age, height, weight, and ethnicity, and who have similar medical histories, almost surely have two very different cancers. The only thing the cancers have in common is that they started from a breast tissue cell. So even though every cell of a cancer is related to the same original parent cell, all the cells that make up a cancer are not the same. The idea that different kinds of cells make up one cancer is called tumor heterogeneity..
1 The degree of difference between the cancer cells and normal cells. 2  How different your cancer cells look from normal cells is called your cancer's grade. 3  Breast cancers are graded on a 1 to 3 scale, with grade 3 cancers being the most different looking and considered the most aggressive. 4  Next. Breast cancer types: What your type means. Not all breast cancers are the same. Understand what type of breast cancer you have and how it differs from other types of breast cancer.
Cancer Overview. Cancer, also called malignancy, is an abnormal growth of cells. There are more than 100 types of cancer, including breast cancer, skin cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer, and lymphoma. Symptoms vary depending on the type. Cancer treatment may include chemotherapy, radiation, and/or surgery. 
Cancer, also known as a malignant tumor or malignant neoplasm, is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. Not all tumors are cancerous; benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body. Possible signs and symptoms include: a new lump, abnormal bleeding, a prolonged cough, unexplained weight loss, and a change in bowel movements among others. While these symptoms may indicate cancer, they may also occur due to other issues. There are over 100 different known cancers that affect humans.