For the type of tooth, see dental anatomy. The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. The function of the valve is to prevent back flow of blood into the right atrium. The tricuspid valve prevents back flow of blood into the right atrium. This valve is weakened by drug abuse. The back flow of blood is also known as regression or tricuspid regurgitation.
Four heart valves control the flow of blood through the heart. They act as one-way doors, opening to let blood exit or enter a chamber, then closing to keep blood from flowing backward. 1  The tricuspid valve controls blood flow from the right atrium to the right ventricle. At the start of each heartbeat, blood returning from the body and the lungs fills the heart's two upper chambers. The mitral and tricuspid valves are located at the bottom of these chambers. As the blood builds up in the upper chambers, these valves open to allow blood to flow into the lower chambers of your heart. After a brief delay, as the lower chambers begin to contract, the mitral and tricuspid valves shut tightly. This stops blood from flowing backward
When the heart contracts, blood is squeezed from the right atrium into the right ventricle through flaps of tissue called the atrioventricular (AV) valve, that prevents blood from flowing back into the right atrium. The valve that separates the right atrium and ventricle is called the tricuspid valve. 
Heart valves are like doors that open and close. The valves open to allow blood to flow into the next chamber of the heart or into one of the arteries, and then they shut to keep blood from flowing backwards. The tricuspid valve is on the right side of the heart and separates the right atrium and the right ventricle. Normally, the tricuspid valve opens when the right atrium contracts. This allows blood to flow down into the right ventricle. The tricuspid valve is closed when the right ventricle contracts, allowing blood to flow out to the lungs. In tricuspid regurgitation, the tricuspid valve does not close properly. 
The following is a step-by-step illustration of how the valves function normally in the left ventricle: 1  After the left ventricle contracts, the aortic valve closes and the mitral valve opens, to allow blood to flow from the left atrium into the left ventricle. The closure of the tricuspid valve prevents blood from backing into the right atrium and the opening of the pulmonary valve allows the blood to flow into the pulmonary artery toward the lungs. Left Ventricle. Left Ventricle: The left ventricle receives oxygenated blood as the left atrium contracts.
For more information on valve disease and its treatment, see Valve Disease. The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium (top chamber) and right ventricle (bottom chamber). Its role is to make sure blood flows in a forward direction from the right atrium to the ventricle. Tricuspid valve disease refers to abnormal function of the tricuspid valve. 1 Tricuspid regurgitation-the valve is leaky or doesn't close tight enough, causing blood to leak backwards across the valve. 2  Tricuspid stenosis-the valve leaflets are stiff and do not open widely enough, causing a restriction in the forward flow of blood.
The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. The tricuspid valve prevents back flow of blood into the right atrium. This valve is weakened by drug abuse. The back flow of blood is also known as regression or tricuspid regurgitation.
The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium and right ventricle and has a valve area of 4-6 cm 2 (see the following image and video). The valve is nearly vertical and is approximately 45° to the sagittal plane. 
1 Opens to allow blood to flow from the top right chamber to the lower right chamber (or from right atrium to right ventricle). 2  Prevents the back flow of blood from the ventricle to the atrium when blood is pumped out of the ventricle. MITRAL VALVE. To better understand your valve condition and to help prepare you to understand everything your healthcare provider will discuss, it helps to know the role each heart valve plays in providing healthy blood circulation.