1 The iOS device and the computer are on the same Wi-Fi network. 2  When your device is connected with iTunes via Wi-Fi, you can select the device and then configure sync and other options. 3  Click Apply or Sync to sync the iOS device.
1 If you're in the iTunes Store, click the Library button, then look for your device in the upper-right corner. 2  In the Summary tab, select Sync with this [device] over Wi-Fi.. 3  When the computer and the iOS device are on the same network, the iOS device will appear in iTunes. 4  Then you can sync it.
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Apple's iCloud allows you to sync contacts, calendars and other data between your iPhone and iPad without the use of a Mac or Windows-based computer. Setting up iCloud requires that you have an Apple ID and access to a Wi-Fi or a 3G connection.
Get ready to sync. Syncing your iPhone, iPod touch, or iPad with your computer is really quite easy. Gather your device and its USB charging cable, and make sure you have installed the latest version of iTunes on your Mac. Plug in your device, and iTunes should launch, displaying your device’s summary screen.
Set up syncing. 1  Open iTunes. 2  Make sure that you have the latest version. 3  Connect your iOS device to your computer with the included USB cable. 4  Locate your iOS device. 5  If you're in the iTunes Store, click the Library button, then look for your device in the upper-right corner.
1 Just connect any device (iPod, iPhone or iPad) to your Computer. 2  In iTunes, click your iPhone or iPad in the Devices section on the left. 3  Use tabs such as Info or Apps to set up your synchronization settings. 4  When you are done, click the Sync button in iTunes lower-right corner.
The first step to sync the iPhone to computer is very simple: plug the cable that came with the iPhone into a USB port on your computer and the other end into the dock connector on the bottom of the iPhone. When you plug the cable in, your phone will begin to sync. The rest of the iPhone sync process happens in iTunes.
1 iTunes is open on the computer. 2  The iOS device and the computer are on the same Wi-Fi network. 3  When your device is connected with iTunes via Wi-Fi, you can select the device and then configure sync and other options. 4  Click Apply or Sync to sync the iOS device.