The taxa in order from largest to smallest are domain,  kingdom,phylum,class, order, family, genus, and species. Taxonomy  is the hierarchical system of classification from … the most  inclusive taxon to the most exclusive taxon. It was developed by  Charles Linnaeus. The levels of classification from largest to smallest is Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus, and Species.
In common cladistic usage, a monophyletic group is a taxon (group of organisms) which forms a clade, meaning that it consists of an ancestral species and all its descendants. The term is synonymous with the uncommon term holophyly. A paraphyletic taxon contains its most recent common ancestor, but does not contain all the descendants of that ancestor. Diagram: in cyan, the reptiles A polyphyletic taxon does not contain the most recent common ancestor of all its members.
African elephants form the genus Loxodonta, a widely accepted taxon. In biology, a taxon (plural taxa; back-formation from taxonomy) is a group of one or more populations of an organism or organisms seen by taxonomists to form a unit. It is not uncommon, however, for taxonomists to remain at odds over what belongs to a taxon and the criteria used for inclusion. If a taxon is given a formal scientific name, its use is then governed by one of the nomenclature codes specifying which scientific name is correct for a particular grouping.
Best Answer: 1. d-it is a type of tree and the only one that follows the proper format for scientific names, the first letter of the first word must be captialized and the first letter of the second word must be lowercase 3. a (check source) 4. d. Source(s): http://www.palaeos.com/Systematics/Cladi... Which of the following is a scientific name of a species? a. bison bison b. Mimus Polyglottis c. homo Sapiens d. Quercus alba d) A scientific name uses a capital letter for the genus and lower case for the species.) 3.
A taxonomic unit, whether named or not: i.e. a population, or group of populations of organisms which are usually inferred to be phylogenetically related and which have characters in common which differentiate (q.v.) the unit (e.g. a geographic population, a genus, a family, an order) from other such units. It is not uncommon, however, for taxonomists to remain at odds over what belongs to a taxon and the criteria used for inclusion. If a taxon is given a formal scientific name, its use is then governed by one of the nomenclature codes specifying which scientific name is correct for a particular grouping.
1. Which of the following is a scientific name of a species? a. bison bison b. Mimus Polyglottis c. homo Sapiens d. Quercus alba d) A scientific name uses a capital letter for the genus and lower case for the species.) 3. Which of the following would be a useful characteristic to use in cladistics? a
type - (biology) the taxonomic group whose characteristics are used to define the next higher taxon. group Pteridospermae, group Pteridospermaphyta, Pteridospermae, Pteridospermaphyta-used in some classification systems: a group of extinct fossil gymnosperms coextensive with the order Cycadofilicales. subspecies, race - (biology) a taxonomic group that is a division of a species; usually arises as a consequence of geographical isolation within a species.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The taxa that contains the smallest number of species is Genus. The levels of classification from largest to smallest is Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus, and Species.
Phylogenetic groups: A monophyletic taxon contains a common ancestor and all of its descendants. Diagram: in yellow, the group of reptiles and birds. A paraphyletic taxon contains its most recent common ancestor, but does not contain all the descendants of that ancestor. Diagram: in cyan, the reptiles A polyphyletic taxon does not contain the most recent common ancestor of all its members.
The condition that a taxon or other group of organisms does not contain the most recent common ancestor of all members of the group, implying that it has multiple evolutionary origins; such groups are not valid as formal taxa and are recognized as such only through error. Contrasts with monophyly and praphyly. The Linnaean system in which a secies is given a compoun name, the first word being the genus in which the species is placed (capitalized) and the second word being the species epithet (uncapitalized) used to separate a secies from other members of the same genus.