People use “a stitch in time saves nine” to express that it’s better to spend a little time and effort to deal with a problem right now than to wait until later, when it may get worse and take longer to deal with. Many believe procrastination — putting off doing something until later — creates more work in the long run.
Because verses are easier got by heart, and stick faster in the memory than prose; and because ordinary people use to be much taken with the clinking of syllables; many of our proverbs are so formed, and very often put into false rhymes; as, a stitch in time, may save nine; many a little will make a mickle.
A stitch in time (saves nine). something that you say which means it is better to deal with a problem early before it gets too bad If you don't repair the oil leak now, you might damage the whole engine. It's a case of a stitch in time.
Clearly, the first users of this expression were referring to saving nine stitches. The proverbial expression was clearly meant as an incentive to the lazy. It's especially gratifying that 'a stitch in time saves nine' is an anagram for 'this is meant as incentive'. The Anglo Saxon work ethic is being called on here.
The complete form of this adage, a stitch in time saves nine, appeared in Thomas Fuller's 1732 proverb collection, Gnomologia, and is so well known that it often is stated in shortened form. Ogden Nash played with it in the title for his verse collection, A Stitch Too Late Is My Fate (1938).
Literally, it means that a single stitch (to fix a tear in a garment) will avoid having to make many more (nine) to fix a larger tear that it might cause. Figuratively, a little work today (one stitch) can save a lot of work later on (the nine stitches).
A stitch in time saves nine Meaning A timely effort will prevent more work later. Origin This is nothing to do with rips in the fabric of the space-time continuum, as some have ingeniously suggested. The meaning of this proverb is often requested at the Phrase Finder Discussion Forum, so I'll be explicit.
If you wait until late, things will get worse, and it will take much longer to deal with them. It is often shortened to A stitch in time.. Example: If you have an idea for your final research paper, start writing today. Don't wait until the end of the semester.