Cardiac muscle tissue is specifically muscle tissue of the heart.  It is smooth just like skeletal muscle tissue but has special  characteristics that help it to contract at … fast, steady rates. 1.Skeletal Muscle-Voluntary striated (lined/ridged) connective tissue with a primary function of contraction. Provides motion and movement. Repairs easily. 2.Cardiac Muscle … - Part of the Cardiovascular System enabling the Heart to rhythmically beat. Very strong. 3.Smooth Muscle-Involuntary
Finally, there is a type of cardiac muscle tissue with a regular contractile rhythm at the SA and AV nodes. SA and AV nodes are locations in the heart that act as pacemakers for heartbeats. Each of these types of tissue contributes to the overall coordination of the heart's rhythm. It has characteristics similar to both smooth and skeletal muscle tissue, as well as specialized properties, that allow it to function with fast but sustained contractions, rapid conduction and coordinated movement.
Characteristics of Cardiac Muscle. Cardiac muscle is characterized by striped muscle fibers, connected together by intercolated disks, where the membranes are specialized to allow electrical signals to pass easily. Like smooth muscles, cardiac muscles can remain in contraction for a sustained period. It has characteristics similar to both smooth and skeletal muscle tissue, as well as specialized properties, that allow it to function with fast but sustained contractions, rapid conduction and coordinated movement.
There are various types of cardiac muscle cells in different locations in the heart. In the atria and ventricles, the cells are strong in contraction and interconnected. In the area between the atria and ventricles there is a non-conductive fibrous tissue that serves to separate the contractions of these areas. There is another type of cardiac muscle tissue between the atria and ventricles, along the conduction pathways of the heart. It has characteristics similar to both smooth and skeletal muscle tissue, as well as specialized properties, that allow it to function with fast but sustained contractions, rapid conduction and coordinated movement.
An isolated cardiac muscle cell, beating. Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. These three types of muscle all form in the process of myogenesis. The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. The myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart, and forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer
Click to read more below. Cardiac muscle tissue is an extremely specialized form of muscle tissue that has evolved to pump blood throughout the body. In fact, cardiac muscle is only found in the heart and makes up the bulk of the heart’s mass
Cardiac muscle tissue is specifically muscle tissue of the heart.  It is smooth just like skeletal muscle tissue but has special  characteristics that help it to contract at … fast, steady rates. Answered. Answer   a cardiac muscle cell is a specialized muscle cell. it is a heart muscle. heart muscle cells have internal structers that contract and that make the heart … pump blood. 2 people found this useful.