Confidence votes 292. A Swai fish is a striped catfish that lives in freshwater and tropical areas of Asia. It is an important food source in Thailand and Vietnam. They are also known as Iridescent sharks and Siamese sharks because of their somewhat resemblance to sharks. A Swai fish is a striped catfish that lives in freshwater and tropical areas of Asia. It is an important food source in Thailand and Vietnam
The iridescent shark (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus) is a species of shark catfish (family Pangasiidae) native to the rivers of Southeast Asia. It is not a shark. It is found in the Mekong basin as well as the Chao Phraya River, and is heavily cultivated for food there. The fish is named for the glow or iridescence exhibited in juveniles, as well as the shark-like appearance of this and other shark catfish. It is also known as Siamese shark or sutchi catfish in the aquarium hobby. Adults reach up to 130 cm (4 ft) in length and can weigh up to a maximum of 44.0 kg (97 lb).
Swai fish fillets are fleshy and white. They have flaky texture similar to tilapia and a mild, sweet taste. Cook swai in the same way you would cook cod, catfish, tilapia, pollock, grouper or flounder. It works well fried, baked, grilled or poached, just as any other white, fleshy fish. One serving of swai fish fillets (a 3 1/2 ounce portion) has 90 calories and around 2 grams of fat. Check out these 10 ways to cook the budget priced fish swai at Examiner.com. Swai is a kind of catfish from Southeast Asia. Some of the swai marketed in the United States used to be simply labelled as catfish. Other terms for the swai fish are tra (the Vietnamese name) and striped catfish, and it is occasionally used interchangeably with basa fish, though basa is a different fish with a similar taste
Swai Fish. The Swai Fish, or Iridescent Shark, is a rather unremarkable fish that is typically farmed in Asia. However, it seems to create a bit of controversy in what contexts it appears. Whether it is to be kept in an aquarium or to be eaten at the dinner table, the Swai Fish has opposing viewpoints. As a juvenile, the Swai Fish radiates a glow from the edges of its fins, thus given the name Iridescent Shark. It can grow up to four feet in length and weigh up to nearly 100 pounds. They are omnivores and will eat other fish, crustaceans, and different types of water plants.
It can be found on the market as Swai Fish and shark catfish. It is a member of the catfish family. As a juvenile, the Swai Fish radiates a glow from the edges of its fins, thus given the name Iridescent Shark. It can grow up to four feet in length and weigh up to nearly 100 pounds. They are omnivores and will eat other fish, crustaceans, and different types of water plants.
A Swai fish is a striped catfish that lives in freshwater and  tropical areas of Asia. It is an important food source in Thailand  and Vietnam. They are also known as Irides … cent sharks and Siamese  sharks because of their somewhat resemblance to sharks. + 188 others found this useful. No. Swai is a type of catfish, and catfish are not a kosher species of fish.
About Swai. Swai is a type of South Asian catfish native to countries like Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam. It's also sold under the names basa, tra or pangasius due to its Latin scientific name, Pangasius hypophthalmus. While the two fish do have a similar flavor when cooked, swai is different from the common catfish farmed and sold in the U.S. Swai and catfish are often mistaken because the common scientific name of swai is Sutchi Catfish, and swai is commonly sold as imported catfish. Other People Are Reading.