maltose. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) a disaccharide of glucose formed by the enzymic hydrolysis of starch: used in bacteriological culture media and as a nutrient in infant feeding. 
Maltose is the second member of an important biochemical series of glucose chains. Maltose is the disaccharide produced when amylase breaks down starch. It is found in germinating seeds such as barley as they break down their starch stores to use for food. It is also produced when glucose is caramelized.
Maltose is a sugar just like fructose, but it's made of two joined glucose molecules. This makes it less sweet than either glucose (simple sugar) or fructose, though certainly still sweet enough to be used as a sweetener for things like granola bars, cereals, and even ice cream. 
Medical Definition of MALTOSE. : a crystalline dextrorotatory fermentable disaccharide sugar C12H22O11 formed especially from starch by amylase (as in saliva and malt), as an intermediate reducing product in metabolism, and in brewing and distilling and used chiefly in foods and in biological culture media. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Also known as malt sugar, maltose is formed by uniting two units of glucose that provide the first link in a process that eventually results in the creation of starch. It is an important component in the process of creating fermented barley that in turn can be used to brew beer. Maltose is not a substance that should be consumed as a separate sweetener in the same manner as table sugar. However, it is an excellent additive to many different types of packaged foods, including non-alcoholic beverages.
Although the disaccharide maltose contains two glucose molecules, it is not the only disaccharide that can be made from two glucoses. When glucose molecules form a glycosidic bond, the linkage will be one of two types, α or β, depending on whether the molecule that bonds its carbon 1 is an α-glucose or β-glucose. Maltose can be produced from starch by hydrolysis in the presence of the enzyme diastase. It can be broken down into two glucose molecules by hydrolysis. In living organisms, the enzyme maltase can achieve this very rapidly. In the laboratory, heating with a strong acid for several minutes will produce the same result
Maltose (/ˈmɔːltoʊs/ or /ˈmɔːltoʊz/), also known as maltobiose or malt sugar, is a disaccharide formed from two units of glucose joined with an α(1→4) bond, formed from a condensation reaction. The isomer isomaltose has two glucose molecules linked through an α(1→6) bond. Maltose is the disaccharide produced when amylase breaks down starch. It is found in germinating seeds such as barley as they break down their starch stores to use for food. It is also produced when glucose is caramelized.
Maltose, or malt sugar, is a disaccharide formed from two units of glucose joined with an α(1→4) linkage. Maltose is not common in food, but can be formed from the digestion of starch, and is heavy in the sugar in malt, the juice of barley and other grains. Maltose is a member of an important biochemical series of glucose chains. Maltose can be produced from starch by hydrolysis in the presence of the enzyme diastase. It can be broken down into two glucose molecules by hydrolysis. In living organisms, the enzyme maltase can achieve this very rapidly. In the laboratory, heating with a strong acid for several minutes will produce the same result
Maltose. a natural disaccharide, consisting of two glucose radicals. Large quantities of maltose are present in germinated grains of barley (malt), rye, and other cereals; it is also found in tomato plants, as well as in the pollen and nectar of several plant species. 