Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus capsulate of the genus Bordetella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Unlike B. bronchiseptica, B. pertussis is not motile. Pertussis [edit]. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. In the US, it killed between 10,000 and 20,000 people per year before a vaccine was available.
Bordetella Pertussis. Bordetella pertussis is a kind of bacteria. It is a gram-negative organism and has a morphology named coccobacillus. It is an aerobic organism, meaning that it has to be in an oxygenated atmosphere in order to survive. The disease has to live in a warmer temperature, like that of the human body. Pertussis is an infection of the respiratory system. It was called the whooping cough since victims of the disease make a whooping sound when breathing.
Morphology and culture. B. pertussis is an immobile, gram-negative, short rod-shaped bacterium with a capsule form, strictly aerobic growth, very sensitive to cold and desiccation. Bordetella Pertussis epidemiology. The only known host for B. pertussis is the man, diseases occur from infancy through to adulthood and are transmitted by droplet infection. Young people and adults to play as a reservoir of pathogens and vectors of increasing importance.
Bordetella pertussis. Bordetella pertussis (B. Pertussis) is a small, coccobacillus. Coccobacillus are rod-shaped bacteria. Cocco comes from cocci meaning spherical shaped and bacillus comes from bacilli meaning elongated. B. pertussis colonize the cilia of the mammalian respiratory epithelium. The epithelium is a tissue composed of a layer of cells. The main purpose of the respiratory epithelium is to moisten and protect the airways. It was originally thought that B. pertussis did not invade the tissues
Bordetella pertussis, the agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Gram stain. (CDC). Bordetella pertussis colonizes the cilia of the mammalian respiratory epithelium (Figure 1). Generally, it is thought that B. pertussis does not invade the tissues, but some recent work has shown the bacterium in alveolar macrophages.
B. pertussis and B. parapertussis are very similar species. Both species cause pertussis (whooping cough) in humans and are separated merely by the toxins they release during infection. B. parapertussis releases toxins that seem to cause a milder form of pertussis (whooping cough). B. bronchiseptica causes respiratory disease in various mammals and occasionally in humans. B. pertussis colonize the cilia of the mammalian respiratory epithelium. The epithelium is a tissue composed of a layer of cells. The main purpose of the respiratory epithelium is to moisten and protect the airways. It was originally thought that B. pertussis did not invade the tissue
Enter keyword (s) : Bordetella pertussis. Overview: Bordella pertussis is a Gram-negative, coccobacillus-shaped, aerobic bacterium, belonging to the family Alcaligenaceae. Like other Gram-negative species, B. pertussis possesses lipooligosaccharide (LOS, or endotoxin) in its cell-wall outer membrane.
M icrobiology. Bordetella pertussis, a small gram-negative coccobacillus, is the most important cause of pertussis. B. parapertussis causes similar, but often milder type of cough with posttussive vomiting. B. bronchiseptica and B. avium are important pathogens in wild and domestic animals. 