Ian Tyson first recorded this song while married to, and musical partner with, Sylvia Tyson in 1964 on the album Northern Journey. Of Ian Tyson, Richie Unterberger described this version as clearly point[ing] toward his future C&W/cowboy direction..n 1969, Judy Collins recorded the song for her album Who Knows Where the Time Goes. Released as a single in 1969, it spent six weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 and peaked at #55. In Canada, her version reached #37 on the Top Singles chart published by RPM.
Lyrics taken from http://www.lyricsmode.com/lyrics/j/judy_collins/someday_soon.html.here's a young man that I know. His age is twenty-one. Comes from down. In southern Colorado. Just out of the service. And he's looking for his fun. Someday soon, going with him. Someday soon.
This song about making a to-do list of mind-expanding exercises was inspired by an argument Tunstall had with her boyfriend (and drummer) Luke Bullen. Tunstall told Paste Magazine October 22, 2007: That song was written when I split up with Luke for a day.
~ SOMEDAY SOON ~ written by Ian Tyson. In his teens Ian Tyson decided upon a career as a rodeo rider. Recovering from a fall in the mid 1950s he started learning guitar. Ian started playing clubs and coffeehouses in Toronto and by 1959 he was performing music as a full-time occupation. Sylvia, still in her teens started frequenting the folk clubs of Toronto. By 1959, they started performing together.. But it was Judy Collins that popularized Tyson`s song.
Someday Soon is a song composed by Canadian singer/song-writer Ian Tyson. He recorded the song with his wife, Sylvia Tyson, as the duo Ian & Sylvia in 1964. Although this version was not released as a single, the song has been recorded by Judy Collins, Moe Bandy and Suzy Bogguss, all of whom had chart success with it.n 1969, Judy Collins recorded the song for her album Who Knows Where the Time Goes. Released as a single in 1969, it spent six weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 and peaked at #55. In Canada, her version reached #37 on the Top Singles chart published by RPM.
Someday Soon was written by Goodwin, Jimi/williams, Jez/williams, Andy /. 
In 1969, Judy Collins recorded the song for her album Who Knows Where the Time Goes. Released as a single in 1969, it spent six weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 and peaked at #55. In Canada, her version reached #37 on the Top Singles chart published by RPM.
The song Someday Soon, written by Ian Tyson, recounts the story of a young woman waiting for her lover to arrive. The song may contain some autobiographical elements since, like Ian Tyson himself, the young man rides in the rodeo. The young woman is determined to follow her man “down the toughest road I know.”.e will review the original version by Ian & Sylvia, and a cover of that song by Judy Collins. Ian & Sylvia and Someday Soon: We discussed the career of Ian and Sylvia Tyson in our blog post on Four Strong Winds. Here we briefly review their career and individual fortunes.
Here is a live video of Judy Collins performing Someday Soon on Graham Nash’s interview show. This is a fascinating clip, as just before Judy performs the song, Nash brings out his Crosby Stills & Nash (CSN) bandmate Stephen Stills.e will review the original version by Ian & Sylvia, and a cover of that song by Judy Collins. Ian & Sylvia and Someday Soon: We discussed the career of Ian and Sylvia Tyson in our blog post on Four Strong Winds. Here we briefly review their career and individual fortunes.
In this week’s blog we consider Someday Soon, one of my favorite folk songs from the 60s. We will review the original version by Ian & Sylvia, and a cover of that song by Judy Collins. Ian & Sylvia and Someday Soon: We discussed the career of Ian and Sylvia Tyson in our blog post on Four Strong Winds. Here we briefly review their career and individual fortunes.