Medicaid pays for Part A premiums. * Beneficiaries under this program often qualify for full Medicaid benefits by meeting Medically Needy standards or spending down excess. income to the Medically Needy level. ** Beneficiaries under this program are not otherwise eligible for full Medicaid coverage through the State. When “you” is used in this publication, we are referring to Medicare and Medicaid. The Medicare and Medicaid Programs The Medicare Program The Original Medicare Program, also known as Fee-For-Service (FFS) Medicare, consists of: • Part A, hospital insurance; and • Part B, medical insurance.
The Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries (QMB) program helps people who have Medicare pay for their medical care. To receive benefits from the QMB program you must be receiving Part A (Hospital insurance benefits) coverage of Medicare. Your income and resources must fall within certain limits. 
The Qualified Medicare Beneficiary program (QMB), Specified Low-Income Medicare Beneficiary program (SLMB), and Qualified Individual program (QI), help Medicare beneficiaries of modest means pay all or some of Medicare’s cost sharing amounts (ie. Payment of Medicare Part B monthly premiums and annual deductible. Payment of co-insurance and deductible amounts for services covered under both Medicare Parts A and B. Note: Medigap premiums are not covered by QMB, SLMB, or QI.
Qualified Medicare Beneficiary (QMB) Program. A state program that helps pay Part A premiums, Part B premiums, and other cost-sharing (like deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments) for people who have Part A and limited income and resources. Top of page. 
A Medicare beneficiary who qualifies for the QMB program will automatically qualify for the Medicare Part D Extra Help program that provides financial assistance with Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage (monthly premiums, deductibles, and drug costs). To be qualified for the QMB program, you must be a Medicare beneficiary and: Please note: The Federal Poverty Level can (and usually does) change each year so the income and resource limits for the QMB program can change each year.
The Qualified Medicare Beneficiary (QMB) program helps District residents who are eligible for Medicare pay for their Medicare costs. This means that Medicaid will pay for the Medicare premiums, co-insurance and deductibles for Medicare covered services. Even though DC Medicaid will pay for your Medicare costs, it does not mean that you are entitled to DC Medicaid benefits. The DC Medicaid program will assist you in paying for services covered under Medicare; but not for Medicai
There are several programs to help people pay their Medicare expenses: The Qualified Medicare Beneficiary or QMB program; the Specified Low-income Medicare Beneficiary or SLMB program; and the Qualifying Individual or QI program. If you qualify for assistance under the QMB program, you will not have to pay: 1  Medicare's hospital deductible which is $764 per benefit period in 1998. 2  The 20-percent coinsurance for services covered by Medicare Part B, depending on which doctor you see.
What this means is that, depending on your income and the value of things you own, you will not have to pay some or all of your out-of-pocket expenses for hospital, physician, and other services covered by Medicare. If you qualify for assistance under the QMB program, you will not have to pay: 1  Medicare's hospital deductible which is $764 per benefit period in 1998. 2  The 20-percent coinsurance for services covered by Medicare Part B, depending on which doctor you see.
It covers the cost of the Medicare premiums, deductibles, and coinsurance that Medicare beneficiaries normally pay out of their own pockets. If you qualify for assistance under the QMB program, you will not have to pay: 1  Medicare's hospital deductible which is $764 per benefit period in 1998. 2  The 20-percent coinsurance for services covered by Medicare Part B, depending on which doctor you see.
To be qualified for the QMB program, you must be a Medicare beneficiary and: Be enrolled in Medicare Part A (Hospital or In-patient insurance), Be a resident of the state where you are applying for your QMB benefits, and Have limited income and assets or financial resources. To be qualified for the QMB program, you must be a Medicare beneficiary and: Please note: The Federal Poverty Level can (and usually does) change each year so the income and resource limits for the QMB program can change each year.