Step 5: The chicken has to be pre-cooked by pre-baking. The ideal temperature for baking it is 360 degrees in the oven until partially cooked. This will seal in flavors and will ensure that the chicken has been cooked before it goes to the grill. Others do boiling. 
I never pre-cook my chicken ahead of time before putting them on the grill. I always put my chicken directly on the grill and then putting the barbecue sauce on the chicken for the last 7 to 10 minutes. My chicken always tastes nice and moist. Perfect flavor and nice and tender. I have had too many times of going to other people's cook outs and the BBQ chicken legs or thighs were dried out. I have been pre-cooking mine either in boiling water with garlic or in the oven at 300 degrees with the BBQ sauce on them.
Prepare the grill by preheating for fifteen minutes. Place the chicken pieces on the grill and cook for ten to fifteen minutes (depending on the size of the chicken cuts). Turn the pieces and cook further until you get the crispness you desire. 
MDT. Summary. Pre-zapping grilled foods makes sense-precook chicken in the microwave before grilling and you accomplish two things: The chicken will be ready to eat in about half the time, and you can be reasonably sure that it will be cooked inside when it's browned (or burned) on the outside. 
· just now. Report Abuse. My favorite way to quickly grill moist chicken is to par-boil for 15-20 minutes (depending on whether they are legs or breasts. . .) This can be done the night before, but they will cook quicker if you set them out 15 minutes before cooking, so they warm up slightly. Cook it completely, then use the grill to heat the chicken and give it that yummy char and smokey flavor on the outside. Nobody gets food poisoning. Many people poach/boil chicken before grilling it rather than baking it. Consider trying that technique.
(Visit lighting a charcoal grill!). 1  Wait till the grill is of a medium heat. 2  Smear a little oil or cooking and spray on the grill grid. 3  Place the chicken pieces on. 4  Keep flipping regularly to prevent them from burning. 5  Grill for a good 40 minutes, then smear over your favourite BBQ sauce. Oven pre-cooking is a tastier option but it's still not the best! Grilling Chicken - Without pre-cooking!. This involves putting raw chicken straight onto the grill, definately the tastier option but the most difficult to get right. Here are my tips and techniques so you won't go wrong.
A tastier option involves marinating your chicken, baking it in the oven and then grilling it. Place your chicken in the oven and pre-cook until golden brown, then place on the grill it to caramelize the outside. How to Grill Chicken pieces: Bake in the oven at 180 degrees for 45 minutes. Grill for 10 - 15 minutes on a medium heat grill. Whole chicken: Bake in the oven at 180 degrees for 90 minutes. Oven pre-cooking is a tastier option but it's still not the best! Grilling Chicken - Without pre-cooking!. This involves putting raw chicken straight onto the grill, definately the tastier option but the most difficult to get right. Here are my tips and techniques so you won't go wrong.
Cook your chicken on the grill on medium-low to medium heat for 5 to 10 minutes, flipping it at least once. To avoid scorching the skin, spray the grill with oil or cooking spray before you light it. Cook the chicken until it reaches an internal temperature of 165 F. 
DH loves grilled chicken thighs. I usually marinate them, no pre-cooking. We grill with a charcoal grill and the thighs usually take about 35-40 minutes total, depending on the size. We put them over the hot coals to sear each side (about 5 minutes per side generally). 