The Innocence Project recommends that all states implement wrongful conviction compensation statutes, and says each should offer a minimum of $50,000 for each year a person spends in prison. People who plead guilty or were coerced into confessing should not be restricted under these statutes, Brown contends. Imagine serving years, even decades in prison for a crime you didn't commit and then-when you're finally exonerated and released-you're not guaranteed any form of compensation under the law. In at least 21 states, that's the case.
According to the Innocence Project, Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin are among the 26 U.S. states with laws to provide compensation for individuals wrongfully convicted of crimes. In its December 2009 report “Making Up for Lost Time ,” the Innocence Project found that compensation ranged from a maximum total of $20,000 (regardless of the number of years spent in prison) to $80,000 per year of wrongful imprisonment.
Only 17 jurisdictions have laws providing monetary compensation to the wrongfully convicted. Of these, the amount of compensation varies widely, from a maximum of $5,000 under federal law, to an unlimited cap in New York and West Virginia. Here's a state-by-state chart of the existing laws and the number of DNA-exonerated men in each state, plus information on pending state and federal compensation legislation.
The federal wrongful conviction compensation statute is the only statute that offers higher compensation for those who spent time on death row. Under the federal statute, a person can be awarded up to $50,000 per year of wrongful imprisonment and up to $100,000 per year on death row. Imagine serving years, even decades in prison for a crime you didn't commit and then-when you're finally exonerated and released-you're not guaranteed any form of compensation under the law. In at least 21 states, that's the case.
Each state with a compensation system for wrongfully convicted defendants has its own method of determining how much to award—for example, $100 per day or $50,000 per year of wrongful incarceration. Talk to a Lawyer. If you’ve been wrongfully convicted of a crime, consult a knowledgeable lawyer. Such an attorney can advise you of the applicable law and let you know whether you have additional or alternative options for seeking compensation.
Wrongful conviction compensation statutes. The compensation to people wrongly imprisoned varies widely by state, and in 24 states, there is no money awarded at all. Check the table to see what each state pays to former inma
In order to be eligible to get compensation for wrongful conviction in a state that allows for it, a person must: 1  Be convicted of a felony, not just a misdemeanor, and. 2  Serve time in a state prison. Most states that honor any compensation for wrongful conviction require a strong showing that no crime was committed or you did not commit the crime. Other states will not consider such a claim unless a the Governor has issued a pardon or clemency.
Graves, who received $1.45 million under Texas' wrongful conviction compensation statute 6 months after his release, says states should not only offer money to the wrongfully convicted, but also free healthcare and much-needed counseling. That's the biggest disappointment. Imagine serving years, even decades in prison for a crime you didn't commit and then-when you're finally exonerated and released-you're not guaranteed any form of compensation under the law. In at least 21 states, that's the case.
States that have laws that compensate for wrongful conviction differ in the amount of compensation you can recover. Some states have a cap, where the amount of compensation cannot exceed $10,000. Most states that honor any compensation for wrongful conviction require a strong showing that no crime was committed or you did not commit the crime. Other states will not consider such a claim unless a the Governor has issued a pardon or clemency.
Under federal law, those wrongfully convicted of federal crimes receive up to $50,000 per year of wrongful incarceration, plus an additional $50,000 for each year spent on Death Row; only five states (none in the Midwest) provide this level of compensation. In its December 2009 report “Making Up for Lost Time ,” the Innocence Project found that compensation ranged from a maximum total of $20,000 (regardless of the number of years spent in prison) to $80,000 per year of wrongful imprisonment.