Certified pre-owned (CPO) cars are popular with buyers who want to minimize the risk of buying a used car. They also can typically get more car for their money with a CPO vehicle than they can with a new car. To be a CPO car, a vehicle needs to meet specific age and mileage requirements. 
The average cost of a certified BMW is usually between $1,500 up to $2,500, the most common replacement items are tires and/or brakes which can account for an additional $1,000 to $2,000 on top of the base fee of $1,500. Here is the breakdown of the cost of certification; There is an in-depth inspection done by a certified technician, it requires approximately 10 hours of service center time and the cost is around $1,000.
For those that don’t know, in BMW terms, the certified pre-owned program is a service you can opt for on any BMW over about 10,000 and under 60,000 miles. As for the warranty itself, it’s good for 2 years or the next 50,000 miles from when it is certified. But I digress, the important thing people need to know is that the items covered by the certification process are:
If you pose the question to the salesman, he may reply that the car could be certified, provided that it meets qualifying guidelines-see blog titled-“Save Money, Purchase a Certified Used BMW.”. There is a cost associated with certification, it is usually about $1500 in addition to the total price of the used vehicle. Here is the breakdown of the cost of certification; There is an in-depth inspection done by a certified technician, it requires approximately 10 hours of service center time and the cost is around $1,000.
The car fax is usually included with the deal for a certified vehicle, so you can calculate the savings of around $60, if you planned to get your own report. To get an estimate on the cost of a certified BMW today, call or stop by your local Pennsylvania BMW dealership, Otto’s BMW located in Exton. Certified BMW. Here is the breakdown of the cost of certification; There is an in-depth inspection done by a certified technician, it requires approximately 10 hours of service center time and the cost is around $1,000.
A later model with less than 60,000 miles, a Certified Pre-Owned. BMW is tested against our comprehensive Certified Pre-Owned vehicle inspection checklist by a BMW-trained technician, where everything from. how the engine performs to the operation of the glove box is scrutinized. 
However, for a vehicle that is less than 4 years old and has mileage that low then you should hold off as the factory warranty is still more than likely available on the car. As for the warranty itself, it’s good for 2 years or the next 50,000 miles from when it is certified. But I digress, the important thing people need to know is that the items covered by the certification process are:
For example, my certification cost about $1,800 as BMW had to replace the tires on my car as they weren’t BMW spec(don’t put any Pirelli’s on the car before you have it CPO’d!) so the cost was driven up some. As for the warranty itself, it’s good for 2 years or the next 50,000 miles from when it is certified. But I digress, the important thing people need to know is that the items covered by the certification process are:
According to BMW, any Certified Pre-Owned car that was certified after January 1st 2014 is not eligible for a warranty transfer if the car was sold through a non-BMW dealership. Here are two scenarios: John buys a CPO 2010 328 in February of 2014 (the vehicle was certified in February). Except it is not a BMW CPO car anymore, because despite what the CarFax says, the car is being sold through a non-BMW dealer. Mary buys a CPO 2009 X3 in January of 2014 (the vehicle was certified in January).