Dense Regular Connective Tissue. It is found in Tendons and Ligaments. Blood. Bone. Dense Irregular Connective Tissue. It is abundant in the Dermis, fibrous capsules of organs and joints, and the digestive tract. Fibrocartilage. It is found in intervertebral discs, the pubic symphysis and discs of the knee joint.
A connective tissue disease is any disease that has the connective tissues of the body as a target of pathology. Connective tissue is any type of biological tissue with an extensive extracellular matrix that supports, binds together, and protects organs. These tissues form a framework, or matrix, for the body, and are composed of two major structural protein molecules: collagen and elastin. Many connective tissue diseases feature abnormal immune system activity with inflammation in tissues as a result of an immune system that is directed against one's own body tissues (autoimmunity). Diseases in which inflammation or weakness of collagen tends to occur are also referred to as collagen diseases.
Some connective tissue diseases -- often called heritable disorders of connective tissue (HDCTs) -- are the result of changes in certain genes. Many of these are quite rare. Following are some of the more common ones. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). 
Connective tissue (blue) is seen supporting the epithelium (purple). Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component.
Your doctor is likely do these tests: 1  Physical exam to check for swollen hands and painful, swollen joints. 2  Blood test, which can determine whether you have a certain antibody in your blood that is associated with mixed connective tissue disease. 3  Preparing for your appointment. 
Specialised connective tissue includes tendons and ligaments, Bone and Cartilage, haemopoetic tissue, blood and adipose tissue. Bone contains Osteocytes, and osteoblasts (osteo-bone) which secrete the type of extracellular matrix material (ECM) that makes up bone. 
In patients with connective tissue diseases, it is common for collagen and elastin to become injured by inflammation. Many connective tissue diseases feature abnormal immune system activity with inflammation in tissues as a result of an immune system that is directed against one's own body tissues (autoimmunity). Diseases in which inflammation or weakness of collagen tends to occur are also referred to as collagen diseases. A connective tissue disease is any disease that has the connective tissues of the body as a primary target of pathology. The connective tissues are the structural portions of our body that essentially hold the cells of the body together.
SPECIALISED CONNECTIVE TISSUES. 1  dense regular connective tissue which is found in tendons and ligaments, and is shown below. 2  The other specialised types of connective tissue are covered in other topics. 3  cartilage - (see the topic on bone and cartilage). For example, if the matrix is calcified, it can form bone or teeth. Specialised forms of extracellular matrix also makes up tendons, cartilage, and the cornea of the eye. General connective tissue is either loose, or dense, depending on the arrangment of the fibres.
Connective tissue diseases are actually a group of medical diseases. A connective tissue disease is any disease that has the connective tissues of the body as a primary target of pathology. The connective tissues are the structural portions of our body that essentially hold the cells of the body together.
Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a rare autoimmune disorder. An autoimmune disorder is one in which the immune system mistakenly views the body’s own tissues as “invaders” and attacks them. Mixed connective tissue disease has features of three other connective tissue diseases: 1  Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) – An inflammatory disease that can affect many different organs. 2  Symptoms include fever, fatigue, joint pains, weakness, and skin rashes on the face, neck, and upper body. In the beginning stages, patients who have MCTD have symptoms similar to those of patients with other connective tissue disorders, including: 1  fatigue. 2  muscle pain with no apparent cause. 3  joint pain. 4  low-grade fever. 5  Raynaud phenomenon (reduced blood flow to the fingers, toes, ears, and nose).