The review article focuses on the structure and function of lymphatic capillaries in connective tissues of skin, muscles and synovial membrane. Lymphatic capillaries (initial lymphatics) are formed from endothelial cells mutually arranged so that their intercellular junctions have different structure. 
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
At the extremities of the lymphatic system are the lymphatic capillaries [figure1] . They are blind end tubes [3] and are bigger than blood capillaries [2] , they also have a unique one-way structure that allows interstitial fluids [figure 1] in but not out [1] they are very permeable [2] . 
Lymphatic vessels are structures of the lymphatic system that transport fluid away from tissues. Lymphatic vessels are similar to blood vessels, but they don't carry blood. The fluid transported by lymphatic vessels is called lymph. Once the fluid enters the lymph capillaries, it is called lymph. Lymph capillaries can be found in most areas of the body with the exceptions of the central nervous system, bone marrow, and non-vascular tissue. Lymphatic capillaries join to form lymphatic vessels. Lymphatic vessels transport lymph to lymph nodes.
The lymphatic system is basically a channel that carries a clear or whitish fluid called the lymph. This lymph aids in clearing the tissues of infective organisms, toxins etc. The basic structure and functions of the lymphatic system can be broken into the lymph channels. The lymph nodes, lymph and other organs.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lymph capillaries or lymphatic capillaries are tiny, thin-walled vessels located in the spaces between cells (except in the central nervous system and non-vascular tissues) which serve to drain and process extra-cellular fluid. Lymph is ultimately returned to the venous circulation. Lymphatic capillaries are slightly larger in diameter than blood capillaries, and have closed ends (unlike the loop structure of blood capillaries). Their unique structure permits interstitial fluid to flow into them but not out. The ends of the endothelial cells that make up the wall of a lymphatic capillary overlap
Mingled among the millions of blood capillaries throughout your body is another network of tiny, thin-walled vessels called lymphatic capillaries. The structure of a lymphatic capillary is similar to that of a blood capillary, but its function is distinctly different. Like a system of storm drains channeling rainwater from a city's streets, your lymphatic capillaries pick up the fluid that leaks into your tissues and help return it to your circulatory system. Lymphatic capillaries are among a number of structures belonging to your lymphatic system. Your lymphatic system works in close concert with your circulatory system, which transports blood throughout your body.
1. List the functions of the lymphatic vessels. The function of the lymphatic vessels, or lymphatics, is an elaborate system of drainage vessels that collect the excess protein-containing interstitial fluid and return it to the bloodstream. 2. Describe the structure and distribution of lymphatic vessels