Follow John. Add to circle. Many Tesla fans and electric-car drivers now know about the Model S P85D, Tesla's all-wheel-drive electric car that's arguably the fastest four-door sedan on the market. What most of them likely don't know is just what the car's ultimate performance mode, called Insane, actually feels like. 2014 Tesla Model S P85D, road test, Dec 2014 [photo: David Noland]. When it was first announced by Tesla CEO Elon Musk, the all-wheel-drive D version of the Tesla Model S had been expected as an addition to the lineup. But the all-out highest-performance model, the P85D, hadn't been.
Musk also said Tesla will upgrade the battery pack of the Model S to improve its range, something it plans to do every year. The upgrade will cost about $3,000, and it will give the car a range of about 300 miles on the highway on a single battery charge, about 15 miles more than the current version. CEO Elon Musk said Friday that the upgrade will cost $10,000 for new buyers of the Model S, whose base price is $70,000. Current Model S owners will be able to get the upgrade for $5,000 plus the cost of installation in the next six months.
Our intrepid driver Elliot states that the expected top speed of the Tesla Model S is around 130 mph, but he wanted to prove it. In possibly the quietest top speed run of all time, Elliot pegs the accelerator and in just 12 seconds gets the Model S up to 100 mph. The Tesla Model S is many things; an electric car, sure, but it’s also billed as a luxury car as well. But wait, it’s also a performance vehicle, capable of beating such venerable sports cars like the Dodge Viper.
Tesla announced Thursday that the all-wheel-drive versions of its Model S electric car will manage a slight increase in range of about 10 miles on a charge vs. the rear-drive models — for a maximum of 275 miles — because of efficiencies designed into the new system. Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla Motors Inc., shows how the sensing features being addedd to the Model S electric sedan work Ringo H.W. Chiu, AP. Fullscreen. Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla Motors Inc., announces its new Tesla D, a new all-wheel-drive version of the Tesla Model S
The Tesla Model S is a full-sized plug-in electric five-door, luxury liftback, produced by Tesla Motors. Since its introduction in June 2012 it has achieved rapidly growing sales, particularly in Norway and California. It scored a perfect 5.0 NHTSA automobile safety rating. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) official range for the Model S Performance model equipped with an 85 kWh battery pack is 265 miles (426 km), topping the Tesla Roadster to lead the electric car market. The Tesla Model S won awards such as the 2013 World Green Car of the Year, 2013 Motor Trend Car of the Year, Automobile Magazine 's 2013 Car of the Year, Time Magazine Best 25 Inventions of the Year 2012 award and Consumer Reports ' top-scoring car ever. In 2015, Car and Driver named the Model S the Car of the Century.
Not only does the 85 kWh Model S have an impressive 265-mile EPA-rated range, but it'll do the benchmark 0-60 mph sprint in only 4.4 seconds. That means the all-electric luxury sport sedan from Tesla Motors [NSDQ:TSLA] is at least as fast as V-8 German super sedans like the BMW M5. Given the Tesla's hefty weight at the curb of 4,690 lbs, it's even more impressive--weight is typically the enemy of speed. Huge low-down torque helps, of course--the 416-hp Model S Performance develops 443 lbs-ft from zero to 5,100rpm, and power delivery is much smoother too.
Tesla's claims for charging speed are not absolute. Weasel-words like up to and as fast as pepper the discussion. One says a Supercharger will provide half a charge in about 20 minutes.. At the Supercharger unveiling they said they could provide 3 hours of driving in as little as 30 minutes.. 
So just how fast is the Tesla Model S? Let’s go on a top speed run to find out. Our intrepid driver Elliot states that the expected top speed of the Tesla Model S is around 130 mph, but he wanted to prove it. June 6th, 2013 by Christopher DeMorro. The Tesla Model S is many things; an electric car, sure, but it’s also billed as a luxury car as well. But wait, it’s also a performance vehicle, capable of beating such venerable sports cars like the Dodge Viper.
Tesla makes super-fast Model S electric car even faster. Tesla (TSLA) founder Elon Musk announced three new features related to its Model S vehicle on Friday. First, Tesla released a 90 kWh batter pack option, for $3,000. This adds 15 miles, putting the total range on a charge to 300 miles. The battery pa Newslook.