1 acronym for fatty upper pussy area. 2  That is, a particularly fat pelvic area on women. 3  That chick has major FUPA. 4  That girl is so fat, her belt is pushing her FUPA down. 5  The waitress's FUPA touched my arm when she leaned over the table. 6  See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) . 1 acronym for fatty upper penis area. 2  That is, a particularly fat pelvic area on men. 3  That dude has major FUPA. 4  That guy is so fat, his belt is pushing his FUPA down. 5  The waiter's FUPA touched my arm when he leaned over the table.
FUPA is an acronym, abbreviation or slang word that is explained above where the FUPA definition is given. All A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Other 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. Other terms relating to 'upper': MONROE. 
FUPA. FUPA is an acronym for Fat Upper Pussy Area. Contrary to popular belief, the FUPA is *not* a roll of fat hanging over the vaginal area. Rather, it is the area directly *above* the vaginal area which has become enlarged. The FUPA has strange effects on its victims. FUPA. Acronym for Fat Upper Pubic Area; common misinterpretations include Fat Upper Pussy Area, Fat Upper Penile Area and Farting Under Pelicans Asses..
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
FUPA. Acronym for Fat Upper Pussy Area. Describes the small area of fatty tissue that covers a woman's pubis bone. Not to be confused with a flap an obese person's (man's or woman's) hanging stomach fat that sometimes hangs low enough to obscure the genitals. FUPA. Acronym for Fat Upper Pubic Area; common misinterpretations include Fat Upper Pussy Area, Fat Upper Penile Area and Farting Under Pelicans Asses..
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
A man's FUPA, from 'dude' + 'FUPA.' The male equivalent of a FUPA (Fat Upper Pubic Area), a term which is commonly understood to refer to women (it is also known as Fat Upper Pussy Area or gunt, from 'gut' + 'cunt,' for example). The under the belt area of a pot belly. This friend gets ignored by friends of the group that are of the opposite sex. Because of their lack-of good looks, this person is noted as annoying because engaging in conversation requires one to look at the dupa, which results in horrible inner agony.
1 acronym for fatty upper pelvic area. 2  That is, a particularly fat pelvic area (on either men or women.). 3  See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) . 4  See more words with the same meaning: fat (part of anatomy) . 5  See more words with the same meaning: unspecified genitalia. 1 acronym for fatty upper penis area. 2  That is, a particularly fat pelvic area on men. 3  That dude has major FUPA. 4  That guy is so fat, his belt is pushing his FUPA down. 5  The waiter's FUPA touched my arm when he leaned over the table.