Causes. The exact cause of optic neuritis is unknown. However, optic neuritis is believed to develop when the immune system mistakenly targets the substance covering your optic nerve (myelin), resulting in inflammation and damage to the myelin.
Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) is the most common cause of acute optic neuropathy in older age groups. It can be nonarteritic (nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy [NAION]) or arteritic, the latter being associated with giant cell arteritis. 
Optic neuritis. Optic neuritis is the most common cause of optic neuropathy. It is caused when the optic nerve is inflamed and the optic messages are not relayed properly to the brain. Optic neuritis is usually caused by an autoimmune disorder or other bacterial infection. Any damage to this vital nerve can cause significant vision loss or vision blurring. Symptoms of optic neuropathy. 1  Pain in the eyes during rest or even when moving. 2  Loss of vision in one eye or both eyes. 3  Blurred vision and color blindness (some colors may be hazy and indistinguishable).
1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. Optic neuritis facts. 1  Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, often affecting young adults in one eye. 2  Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 3 
1 Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 2  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 3  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. Optic neuritis facts. 1  Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, often affecting young adults in one eye. 2  Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 3
Besides affecting eyesight, related nerve damage in MS can lead to loss of mobility and sensory functions, along with other debilitating conditions. Other causes of optic neuritis and neuropathy include: Image of the back of a healthy eye, where the optic nerve is located. You also may notice distorted vision, reduced color vision and pain when you move your eyes. These types of symptoms may precede vision loss due to optic neuritis. Optic neuropathy more generally describes optic nerve abnormalities or damage, including from causes such as blocked blood flow or toxic exposure.
Optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve, caused by damage to and loss of the protective sheath (myelin) surrounding this nerve that is so vital for good vision. Demyelinating optic neuritis is another term for this eye condition. You also may notice distorted vision, reduced color vision and pain when you move your eyes. These types of symptoms may precede vision loss due to optic neuritis. Optic neuropathy more generally describes optic nerve abnormalities or damage, including from causes such as blocked blood flow or toxic exposure.
Abstract. Nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) is the most common clinical presentation of acute ischemic damage to the optic nerve. Most treatments proposed for NAION are empirical and include a wide range of agents presumed to act on thrombosis, on the blood vessels, or on the disc edema itself. II-Clinical presentation. Nonarteritic AION is an acute or subacute optic neuropathy resulting from small vessel infarction of the anterior optic nerve. Symptoms include acute, unilateral, usually painless visual loss that evolves over several hours to days.
Damage and death of these nerve cells, or neurons, leads to characteristic features of optic neuropathy. The main symptom is loss of vision, with colors appearing subtly washed out in the affected eye. On medical examination, the optic nerve head can be visualised by an ophthalmoscope. A pale disc is characteristic of long-standing optic neuropathy. In many cases, only one eye is affected and patients may not be aware of the loss of color vision until the doctor asks them to cover the healthy eye.
Optic neuropathy refers to damage to the optic nerve due to any cause. On medical examination, the optic nerve head can be visualised by an ophthalmoscope. A pale disc is characteristic of long-standing optic neuropathy. In many cases, only one eye is affected and patients may not be aware of the loss of color vision until the doctor asks them to cover the healthy eye.