Is your loan FHA? I have read that an FHA appraisal gets logged into some system and is good for 6 months, so if another buyer tries to go FHA on the house, the appraisal would be available making it harder to get it financed. I guess that is one way you can get the seller to negotiate. Good luck and keep us posted. Just a reminder that FHA doesn't appraise the property....an independent appraiser will do that. Nor does FHA have input when the appraiser is visiting the property in order to determine value. Neither the lender nor FHA see the appraisal until it is finished.
Best Answer: I'm a loan officer, and I will be able to answer this for you. FHA loans are government loans. The length of time it'll take to close an FHA loan depends on what type of relationship your lender, or broker, has with FHA. If they are a correspondent FHA lender, then it'll take an average of 3 weeks. It could take up to as long as 3 months if not a correspondent. My suggestion is to contact your loan officer, and hound him. Get answers, and if you don't get it from him, go elsewhere.
NO FHA appr can be done in a day. The avg time in the DC Metro area is 30 days because FHA is the number one loan right now. It must be in livable condition and if it's not it will not pass the appr process. Your Realtor should have already informed you of this before you ever made an offer. 
As for the inspection, you do not need to wait for the appraisal to come back to order that. In fact, depending on the time frame you put in your contract for Due Diligence, you likely have no more than 7 to 10 days (see your contract) to complete your home inspection. The appraisal itself takes about an hour or so. Once the appraisal is finished they have another 7 days until the results have to be in to the requesting bank. All banks will do their own appraisals. Be aware that your deal might fall apart at this point.
‎11-21-2011 11:43 AM. My appraisal was ordered on Friday early afternoon. I was hoping to get an update on when the appraisal actually is, but I haven't heard anything from the LO. My realtor said normally it is only 3 business days from the time they order the appraisal until the appraisal is done and reviewed. I thought that sounded crazy fast. Waiting on the appraiser for the THIRD time in this process. First time was about a week and then took her almost a week to check that the house was painted in one place to conform to FHA. Now waiting since Friday for her to sign off on a couple of closing conditions.
Sure hope you have it by now! Anyway, how long did it end up taking. it would be good for buyers to know the answer to this, because they are always on pins and needles until it is done. I find that it can easily take up to a week after the inspection. If the appraiser inspected the property last Friday, the lender typically should have received the report by Tuesday, depending on the appraiser and barring no problems with the inspection. General turn time is 48 to 72 hours (2 to 3 days) after inspection for most residential FHA appraisals. The type, size, and location of the property may also have an affect on the completion/delivery date
But here we go. If you already waited 2 weeks since the appraisal inspection that’s an awful long time in today’s market environment. You have the right to contact the bank or lender and inquire about the status of the loan. Tell them the appraiser told you it should be ready in about a week.
(22 reviews). Once the appraisal is ordered, it normally takes 3-14 days for the final report to be received by the underwriter. The underwriter can ask for an appraisal review which can take another 3-5 days. Best to check with your loan officer to see what average times are for their appraisal orders. 
When it comes to FHA home loan applications, many borrowers wonder about how long their paperwork will take to make it through the review process. The application phase of an FHA loan can be stressful for some borrowers. 