Definition. The Average Variable Cost (AVC) is the total variable cost per unit of output. This is found by dividing Total Variable Cost (TVC) by total output (Q). Total Variable Cost (TVC) is all the costs that vary with output, such as materials and labor. Summary. The average variable cost is a firm's variable cost per unit of output. Most AVC functions will start decreasing and then at one point, begin to increase. A firm will chose to shut down production in the short run if the market price is less than the average variable cost of production.
In economics, average variable cost (AVC) is a firm's variable costs (labor, electricity, etc.) divided by the quantity of output produced. Variable costs are those costs which vary with output. where VC = variable cost, AVC = average variable cost, and Q = quantity of output produced. Average variable cost plus average fixed cost equals average total cost : A firm would choose to shut down if marginal revenue is below average variable cost at the profit-maximizing positive level of output.
1 Definition. 2  Average cost is equal to total cost divided by the number of goods produced (the output quantity, Q). 3  It is also equal to the sum of average variable costs (total variable cost divided by Q) plus average fixed costs (total fixed costs divided by Q). 1
Average Costs Edit. 1  Definition. 2  Average cost is equal to total cost divided by the number of goods produced (the output quantity, Q). 3  It is also equal to the sum of average variable costs (total variable cost divided by Q) plus average fixed costs (total fixed costs divided by Q). 1
Before we explain, the relation of average variable cost (AVC) and average total cost (ATC) to marginal cost (MC), it seems necessary that the various types of costs and their relationship should be shown in the form of a table. This is illustrated in the table below: 
Economic Definition of average variable cost. Offline Version: PDF. Term average variable cost Definition: Total variable cost per unit of output, found by dividing total variable cost by the quantity of output. Defined. Offline Version: PDF. Term average variable cost Definition: Total variable cost per unit of output, found by dividing total variable cost by the quantity of output.
1 Average cost is equal to total cost divided by the number of goods produced (the output quantity, Q). 2  It is also equal to the sum of average variable costs (total variable cost divided by Q) plus average fixed costs (total fixed costs divided by Q). 1
In economics, marginal cost is the change in the total cost that arises when the quantity produced is incremented by one unit. That is, it is the cost of producing one more unit of a good. 