Ltd. is the abbreviation for limited. The term is designed to advise that the shareholders or owners of this type of enterprise is limited. Specifically, the shareholders or owners have limited responsibility for the debts and obligations of the business enterprise, according to InvestorWords.com. Warning. Merely adding ltd. to the end of a business's name does not, in and of itself, limit liability. Rather, the company must appropriately be established in the first place, complying with the organizational laws of the jurisdiction where created.
In many countries a limited company business entity is a corporation in which the shareholders' financial liability is limited by shares.. It is often regarded as an attractive option for business owners-and is especially popular among those who own smaller companies. Limited by shares specifically means that the most a company's shareholders stand to lose in the case of insolvency is the capital they originally invested into it (i.e. the aggregate nominal value of the shares) plus any dividends.
LDT may stand for: 1  Laboratory Developed Test, assays developed in the laboratory for internal use, or research use only, and not intended for diagnostic or medical use, and therefore treated differently by regulatory agencies; describes most current genetic testing. 1
The abbreviation ltd. associated with a business enterprise is commonly used in different European countries as well as in Canada, according to InvestorWords.com. Ltd. is also used from time to time with companies in the United States. Warning. Merely adding ltd. to the end of a business's name does not, in and of itself, limit liability. Rather, the company must appropriately be established in the first place, complying with the organizational laws of the jurisdiction where created.
The abbreviation LTD stands for “limited company.” The name is attached to businesses operating in the United Kingdom and many of its Commonwealth countries. The designation’s regulations vary between countries, but in the United Kingdom an LTD refers to a privately held limited company. Much like a limited liability company, or LLC, in the United States, limited companies enjoy certain liability and tax benefits. Gaining a limited company designation in the United Kingdom also often projects a company as more reliable business partner to larger businesses and organizations.
Any business owners who are considering a limited company structure for their ventures should be aware that each country has its own specific laws and regulations regarding the establishment of an Ltd. Limited by shares specifically means that the most a company's shareholders stand to lose in the case of insolvency is the capital they originally invested into it (i.e. the aggregate nominal value of the shares) plus any dividends.
Much like a limited liability company in the United States, a limited company is a separate legal entity from its owners. The organization shields them from liability. In the event a company gets into financial trouble or declares bankruptcy, its owners are not personally liable for the debt. Much like a limited liability company, or LLC, in the United States, limited companies enjoy certain liability and tax benefits. Gaining a limited company designation in the United Kingdom also often projects a company as more reliable business partner to larger businesses and organizations.
Top Definition. LDT. Limp dick trick, also known as LDT for short, is the act of getting a special job to cure what may be a limp situation after a distributed, or concentrated load has been given. Man, after I blew that distributed load, she left me spent, but she wanted more.
The limited company business structure only exists in certain countries. A Ltd. type of company may be incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, Scotland, the Republic of Ireland, as well as many Commonwealth countries, such as India and Australia. Limited by shares specifically means that the most a company's shareholders stand to lose in the case of insolvency is the capital they originally invested into it (i.e. the aggregate nominal value of the shares) plus any dividends.