Plant sources. While plants are generally a good source of vitamin C, the amount in foods of plant origin depends on: the precise variety of the plant, the soil condition, the climate in which it grew, the length of time since it was picked, the storage conditions, and the method of preparation. Sources of Vitamin C. The richest natural sources are fruits and vegetables, and of those, the Kakadu plum and the camu camu fruit contain the highest concentration of the vitamin.
Our best food sources of vitamin C have a single thing in common: they are all plant foods. Even though many—even most—animals make vitamin C in their bodies, only plants make it to the degree that they provide a rich source of the nutrient when eaten. Cranberries, blueberries, and watermelon are examples of very good sources, while apples, pears, and bananas are in the good category. You should expect almost any fresh fruit to be a good, very good, or excellentsource of dietary vitamin C. In addition, many vegetables contain
Vitamin A. Food sources include: Cod-liver oil, sweet potatoes, carrots, leafy vegetables, and fortified foods such as breakfast cereals. What it does: Promotes good eyesight and normal functioning of the immune system. Vitamin B1 (Thiamine)
Vitamin C may be the most familiar of all of the nutrients. Although most adults would be hard pressed to name a good food source of biotin or riboflavin, most everyone can name citrus fruits as good sources of vitamin C. It is also a commonly used nutritional supplement. Cranberries, blueberries, and watermelon are examples of very good sources, while apples, pears, and bananas are in the good category. You should expect almost any fresh fruit to be a good, very good, or excellentsource of dietary vitamin C. In addition, many vegetables contain
Many non-citrus fruits are highly rated sources, as well. Papaya, strawberries, pineapple, kiwifruit, cantaloupe, and raspberries are also excellent vitamin C sources. Cranberries, blueberries, and watermelon are examples of very good sources, while apples, pears, and bananas are in the good category. You should expect almost any fresh fruit to be a good, very good, or excellentsource of dietary vitamin C. In addition, many vegetables contain vitamin C.
Good sources of vitamin C. Vitamin C is found in a wide variety of fruit and vegetables. Good sources include: 1  oranges and orange juice. 2  red and green peppers. 3  strawberries. 4  blackcurrants. 5  broccoli. 6  brussels sprouts. 7  potatoes.
*This amount includes sources of vitamin C from food and supplements. Vegetables and fruits are the best sources of vitamin C. This table will help you choose foods that are high in vitamin C. Information about Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid). 1  Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin. 2  Vitamin C is important for growth and repair of bones, teeth, skin and other tissues. 3  Vitamin C has many other roles in the body and can also: 4  Increase your body's absorption of iron from plant-based foods. 5  Help to prevent cell damage and may reduce your risk for ...
Good Source of Vitamin C. Fruits and vegetables that contain 6 mg to less than 12 mg vitamin C per reference amount (10-19% of the Daily Value per reference amount) qualify to carry the label “good source of vitamin C.”. Artichoke. Asparagus. Banana. Blueberries. Carrot. Celery. Cherries, Sweet. Corn. 
This exotic fruit is another great vitamin C food, with one Guava containing over 250 mg. Over twice your daily needs! They are also rich in dietary fiber, folic acid, potassium and manganese, making guavas one of the best super foods to add to your diet. While not everyone’s favorite food, Brussels sprouts have a great Vitamin C reputation. One serving of cooked Brussels sprouts has almost 50 mg of vitamin C. Brussels sprouts are also high in vitamin K, folate, vitamin A, manganese, potassium and dietary fiber.
14. While not as colorful as some of our other foods high in vitamin C, cauliflower holds its own with this essential nutrient. Just one cup of cauliflower will give you approximately 46 mg, not to mention plenty of vitamin K, folate and dietary fiber. While not everyone’s favorite food, Brussels sprouts have a great Vitamin C reputation. One serving of cooked Brussels sprouts has almost 50 mg of vitamin C. Brussels sprouts are also high in vitamin K, folate, vitamin A, manganese, potassium