Chickenpox Home. It takes between 10 and 21 days after contact with an infected person for someone to develop chickenpox (this is known as the chickenpox incubation period). While this is the complete range for the chickenpox incubation period, the usual chickenpox incubation period averages between 14 and 16 days. Chickenpox Incubation Period. It takes between 10 and 21 days after contact with an infected person for someone to develop chickenpox (this is known as the chickenpox incubation period).
Characteristic pancorporeal varicella lesions in unvaccinated person. The incubation period for varicella is 14 to 16 days after exposure to a varicella or a herpes zoster rash, with a range of 10 to 21 days. A mild prodrome of fever and malaise may occur 1 to 2 days before rash onset, particularly in adults. In children, the rash is often the first sign of disease. 
The incubation period is the time from when your child comes into contact with a person with chickenpox, to when the first symptoms appear. The incubation period for chickenpox is usually 14 to 16 days but can range from 10 to 21 days. A child is infectious 1-2 days before they get the rash until all the blisters have dried up. This usually takes 5 to 7 days.
Symptoms of Chickenpox. The time between exposure to the virus and eruption of symptoms is called the incubation period. For chickenpox, this period is 10 - 20 days. The patient often develops fever, headache, swollen glands, and other flu-like symptoms before the typical rash appears. 
What to expect. The rash usually appears from 10 to 21 days after first being exposed to someone who has chickenpox. This time between exposure to getting the rash is called the 'incubation period'. 1  Children with a severe infection or with underlying serious medical conditions may be given anti-viral medication.
Report Abuse. Chicken pox is contagious from the incubation period (14-21 days from when your toddler first came into contact) until the last blister has scabbed over and no new blisters are appearing. It is caught from contact from the liquid from the blisters or from sneezing. I don't believe it survives outside the body
The incubation period is seven to 21 (usually 10 to 21) days after exposure to the herpes varicella-zoster virus to the development of the symptoms. The disease is most contagious a day or two before the rash appears and until the rash is completely dry and scabbed over, about five to six days after onset of the rash. Chickenpox incubation period. Chickenpox (varicella) is a common, highly contagious, viral infectious disease of childhood. Usually mild, it’s characterised by a very itchy rash that can spread over the whole body. In the UK, it is common and most cases occur during winter and spring.
The first symptoms of chickenpox usually develop about 14 to 16 days after contact with a person infected with the virus. Most people feel sick and have a fever, a decreased appetite, a headache, a cough, and a sore throat. The itchy chickenpox rash usually appears about 1 or 2 days after the first symptoms start. Chickenpox (varicella) is a contagious illness that causes an itchy rash and red spots or blisters (pox) all over the body. Chickenpox can cause problems for pregnant women, newborns, teens and adults, and people who have immune system problems that make it hard for the body to fight infection.