Products containing caffeine are coffee, tea, soft drinks (colas), energy drinks, other beverages, chocolate, caffeine tablets, other oral products, and inhalation. Caffeine's biological half-life – the time required for the body to eliminate one-half of a dose – varies widely among individuals according to factors such as pregnancy, other drugs, liver enzyme function level (needed for caffeine metabolism) and age. In healthy adults, caffeine's half-life is between 3–7 hours.
Caffeine (also spelled caffein) is a bitter, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that is a psychoactive stimulant. Caffeine was isolated from coffee in 1820 by a German chemist, Friedlieb Ferdinand Runge, and in 1821 by French chemists working independently; viz., by Robiquet and by Pelletier and Caventou. 
Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class of psychoactive drugs. It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. Caffeine's biological half-life – the time required for the body to eliminate one-half of a dose – varies widely among individuals according to factors such as pregnancy, other drugs, liver enzyme function level (needed for caffeine metabolism) and age. In healthy adults, caffeine's half-life is between 3–7 hours.
Caffeine is also a common ingredient of soft drinks, such as cola, originally prepared from kola nuts. Soft drinks typically contain 10 to 69 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounce serving. By contrast, energy drinks, such as Red Bull, can start at 80 milligrams of caffeine per serving. Caffeine's biological half-life – the time required for the body to eliminate one-half of a dose – varies widely among individuals according to factors such as pregnancy, other drugs, liver enzyme function level (needed for caffeine metabolism) and age. In healthy adults, caffeine's half-life is between 3–7 hours.
Caffeine dependence. Caffeine is a commonplace central nervous system stimulant drug which occurs in nature as part of the coffee, tea, yerba mate and other plants. It is also an additive in many consumer products, most notably beverages advertised as energy drinks. Caffeine is also added to sodas such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi, where, on the ingredients listing, it is designated as a flavoring agent. Caffeine's mechanism of action is somewhat different from that of cocaine and the substituted amphetamines. Caffeine blocks adenosine receptors A and A2A.
1 It is believed that some 3 out of 4 regular caffeine users are addicted to the substance. 2  Consuming as little as 200 mg of caffeine a day can lead to addiction and altered chemistry in the brain. 3  Around 5 grams of caffeine can be fatal. 4  This is the equivalent of some 30-40 cups of regular coffee. Caffeine is the most commonly used drug in the world. Although the consumption of low to moderate doses of caffeine is generally safe and has many proven health benefits, caffeine is causing quite a stir as a potential source for certain health problems with continued use.
Caffeine is one of the world’s mostcommonly used drugs. It is a bitter,naturally occurring substance foundin coffee and cocoa beans, tea leaves,kola nuts, and other plants. It can beingested when consuming coffee, tea,soft drinks, or chocolate. 
Toxic doses, over 10 grams per day for an adult, are much higher than typical dose of under 500 milligrams per day. A cup of coffee contains 80–175 mg of caffeine, depending on what bean (seed) is used and how it is prepared (e.g. drip, percolation, or espresso). Caffeine's biological half-life – the time required for the body to eliminate one-half of a dose – varies widely among individuals according to factors such as pregnancy, other drugs, liver enzyme function level (needed for caffeine metabolism) and age. In healthy adults, caffeine's half-life is between 3–7 hours.
Coffee is slightly acidic (pH 5.0–5.1) and can have a stimulating effect on humans because of its caffeine content. Coffee is one of the most popular drinks in the world. It can be prepared and presented in a variety of ways (e.g., espresso, cappuccino, cafe latte, etc.). Another issue concerning coffee is its use of water. It takes about 140 liters (37 U.S. gal) of water to grow the coffee beans needed to produce one cup of coffee, and coffee is often grown in countries where there is a water shortage, such as Ethiopia.