You can use Internet Explorer for that, use Google Chrome, or Firefox if you are running a development channel of the browser and not the stable version. Most users will probably stick to Internet Explorer, or at least use the browser for a while before they make the switch. 1 Move the mouse cursor to the lower right corner of the screen, select Settings, then Options. 2  Or, use Windows-C to open the Charms Bar, select Settings, then Options. 3  Switch the Always show address bar and tabs preference to On.
To display the shortcut menu for the topic, press CTRL+F10. To return to the Contents tab to select another topic, press ALT+C. To exit Help, press ALT+F4. To navigate through the Help Index by using the keyboard. To view the Index tab in Internet Explorer Help, press ALT+I. Initially, the keyboard focus is in the keyword box, and the box is empty. The following illustration shows the Index tab for Internet Explorer Help. To display the shortcut menu for the topic, press CTRL+F10. To return to the Index tab to select another topic, press ALT+I. To exit Help, press ALT+F4. To navigate through the Help Search by using the keyboard. To view the Search tab in Internet Explorer Help, press ALT+S. The keyboard focus moves to the keyword box. The following illustration shows the Search tab for Internet Explorer Help. Type the keyword you want, and then press ENTER or ALT+L
To close a tab, simply click or tap on the close button (... see Image-1 Arrow-3). And to create a new tab click on the Add [+] Button (... see Image-1 Arrow-4). To close the Win 8 Internet Explorer metro app and close all tabs, please use the keyboard shortcut [ALT+F4]. See also: ..
In this article, I’ll go through the four major browsers (IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari) and show you the different ways to navigate and switch between tabs. If you use IE, then you’re using Windows, which means you’re probably familiar with the ALT + TAB shortcut key for switching between open applications. If so, then all you have to do to switch between tabs in IE is to press CTRL + TAB. Unfortunately, you can’t go past 8, so if you have more than eight tabs, you’ll have to use a different keyboard shortcut or just click on it. CTRL + 9 will take you to the last tab, even if there are more than 8! There is one last keyboard shortcut, which could be useful for some people: CTRL + K.
Internet Explorer 7 (IE7 free download) has tabbed browsing feature where multiple web pages can be opened within tabs inside a single browser window. For users who like to use the keyboard for navigation, IE 7 has built-in several keyboard shortcuts to speed up tabs using and switching in IE7. Here’s a few commonly used keyboard shortcuts to accelerate usage of tabs in Internet Explorer 7 or newer, such as when want to jump or switch to another tabs. Middle mouse button or CTRL+Left mouse button: Open link in new background tab.
I usually have about 10 tabs open on the internet explorer. But there are occasions when I need to go back and forth many times between two specific tabs. I am trying to find a shortcut key to do that. If I use Alt-Tab then it takes me from one tab to a different program say MS-Word that I might have open. 
Internet Explorer Tab Shortcuts. If you use IE, then you’re using Windows, which means you’re probably familiar with the ALT + TAB shortcut key for switching between open applications. If so, then all you have to do to switch between tabs in IE is to press CTRL + TAB. Unfortunately, you can’t go past 8, so if you have more than eight tabs, you’ll have to use a different keyboard shortcut or just click on it. CTRL + 9 will take you to the last tab, even if there are more than 8! There is one last keyboard shortcut, which could be useful for some people: CTRL + K.
Those are the most obvious options to change to another tabs, but there are more available. Internet Explorer Tab Shortcuts. You can use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl-1 to Ctrl-9 to switch to different tabs that are open in the browser. Ctrl-1 will always focus the first tab in the browser, while Ctrl-9 the last (even if it is not the ninth tab). Use it to quickly switch without displaying the interface at the bottom of the screen. 1 Move the mouse cursor to the lower right corner of the screen, select Settings, then Options. 2  Or, use Windows-C to open the Charms Bar, select Settings, then Options. 3  Switch the Always show address bar and tabs preference to On.
You can force Internet Explorer 11 app to always display Address Bar and Tabs. This might be useful on large resolution screens. Use keyboard shortcut Windows Key+I to open Settings charm, click Options and then set the Always show address bar and tabs slider to On. Another way of searching in Internet Explorer 11 app is to open Search bar using keyboard shortcut Windows Key+Q. Yes, that's the same key combination as opening Apps Search in Windows 8 and 8.1. The Search bar will appear on the right. Type your search term and press Enter or click the Search button (magnifying glass).