Average YMCA hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.35 per hour for Care Giver to $45.00 per hour for Transportation. The average YMCA salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Swim Instructor to $227,500 per year for Employee Benefits Account Manager. 
1 The cost to join YMCA will depend on the location of the facilities. 2  There are different levels of memberships depending on the age of the client, and the cost of membership will also vary depending on this factor. 3  On average, plan on spending anywhere from $30 to as much as $120 month. 1 Daily passes can range anywhere from $4 for a youth to $12 for a family. 2  A single adult can cost around $8 for the day. 3  If you do not understand how YMCA works, you can definitely visit their website to gather more information regarding the matter.
1 On average, plan on spending anywhere from $30 to as much as $120 month. 2  These prices will widely vary depending on how many people are going to use the membership (see chart below.). 3  Daily passes can range anywhere from $4 for a youth to $12 for a family. 4  A single adult can cost around $8 for the day. 1 Daily passes can range anywhere from $4 for a youth to $12 for a family. 2  A single adult can cost around $8 for the day. 3  If you do not understand how YMCA works, you can definitely visit their website to gather more information regarding the matter.
How much does the YMCA pay? how much does the YMCA pay you to work for the after school programs? im 17 and i want a job there but i dont want to ask them and be rude. Answers. Best Answer: It's a job, so the obvious answer would be yes. They do pay you. However, the payment depends on your job there. Also, it really isn't rude at all to ask them how much they pay. Source(s): /b/lessthefall.
About: The Young Men's Christian Association (commonly known as YMCA or simply the Y) is a worldwide organization of more than 45 million members from 125 national federations affiliated through the World Alliance of YMCAs. Their main motto is: Empowering young people.. It was founded on 6 June 1844 in London, England,…. 
How much do YMCA employees make? Glassdoor has salaries, wages, tips, bonuses, and hourly pay submitted anonymously by 87 YMCA employees. 1  Salaries by Job. 2  Salaries by Company. 3  Salaries by City. 4  Reviews by Company. 5  Interview Questions by Job. 6  Interviews by Company. 7  Benefits by Company. 8  Jobs by Title. 9  Jobs by Company. 10  Jobs by City.
1 Membership for All: If your household income is less than $60,000 per year, your joining fee can be cut in half. 2  Bring a copy of your last tax return to your local YMCA and fill out the application. 3  Financial Assistance: Low-income people can qualify for monthly membership aid. YMCA members have access to state-of-the-art fitness equipment, a broad range of wellness programs and licensed child-care services. Most YMCAs offer flexible membership plans, including reduced fees for low-income participants. If you want to become a member of the YMCA, follow these guidelines.
1 According to the website of YMCA, you can expect to pay anywhere from $100 to $150 depending if you are an adult, single parent family or a family. 2  The monthly fee after paying the initial joining fee can cost you $50 to $81. 1 Daily passes can range anywhere from $4 for a youth to $12 for a family. 2  A single adult can cost around $8 for the day. 3  If you do not understand how YMCA works, you can definitely visit their website to gather more information regarding the matter.