A  registered consignee  is a natural or legal person that is authorised, as part of their professional activities, to receive goods subject to excise duty from another Member State under the suspension of excise duty regime. They are not authorised to hold, dispatch, produce or process this type of goods. It is important not to confuse the status of authorised warehousekeeper / registered consignee required to trade goods subject to excise duty with the status of authorised economic operator (AEO) which gives access to simplified customs procedures.
Excise notices: tobacco products, Excise notices: alcohols and Excise notices: storing and moving goods. This notice sets out the UK's requirements for the commercial movement of excise goods by a Registered Consignee. HTML. This Notice 203A (October 2014) cancels and replaces Notice 203A (October 2012). Details of any changes to the previous version can be found in paragraph 1.2 of this notice.
Registered consignor. A natural or legal person may be authorised to act as a registered consignor to dispatch, under the suspension of excise duty regime, products subject to excise duty imported from a third country and already released for free circulation. It is important not to confuse the status of authorised warehousekeeper / registered consignee required to trade goods subject to excise duty with the status of authorised economic operator (AEO) which gives access to simplified customs procedures.
Detail. As a Registered Consignee, you can import duty suspended excise goods into the UK from other EU Member States. You can also account for the UK duty using deferment arrangements. As a Registered Consignee, you can import duty suspended excise goods into the UK from other EU Member States
A Registered Consignor Permit allows you to transport excise goods under excise-duty suspension procedure from the place of import to: 1  excise warehouse. 2  bonded warehouse (excise goods place). 3  registered consignee in another member state. 4  a location where the excise goods leave the EU territory. If you have a registered sender permit and if you are transferring goods subject to excise duty suspension to: 1  excise warehouse. 2  bonded warehouse (excise goods place). 3  registered consignee in another member state.
Related forms and guidance. Return of Excise duty for Registered Consignees or Registered Commercial Importers (HM2). Use form HM2 to submit your return of excise duty as a Registered Consignee or Registered Commercial Importer. Application to register as a Registered Commercial Importer (HM3). Use form HM3 to apply for approval as a Registered Commercial Importer. Request to import excise goods bought duty-paid in another EU Member State (HM4). Use form HM4 to apply for approval to import duty-paid excise goods from other EU countries into the UK. As a Registered Consignee, you can import duty suspended excise goods into the UK from other EU Member States.
Registered Consignee for UK imports. Allied to our REDS registration PJ Shipping Ltd are also authorised Registered Consignee. To receive shipments through the new EMCS (Excise Movement & Control System) a trader has to be a Registered Consignee or as a Registered Consignee we can act on your behalf. This allows EMCS e-AD documents/consignments to be consigned to us.
In a contract of carriage, the consignee is the entity who is financially responsible (the buyer) for the receipt of a shipment. Generally, but not always, the consignee is the same as the receiver. This aspect of shipping law is regulated by the Hague Rules, and the laws of individual countries, e.g. the UK Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 and the U.S. Pomerene Act 1916. There is some international dispute as to whether the consignee on a straight bill must produce the bill in order to take delivery.