Definition of MISAPPREHEND. transitive verb. : to apprehend wrongly: misunderstand. — mis·ap·pre·hen·sion \-ˈhen(t)-shən\ noun. See misapprehend defined for kids. 
Trent, the manager declared in his suavest and most professional manner, that you are acting under a complete misapprehension. A Millionaire of Yesterday by Oppenheim, E. Phillips View in context. He saw the smile, and a strange misapprehension came over him. Anna Karenina by Tolstoy, Leo View in context. To re-move the liability of such misapprehension, I deem it proper to append the following brief explanation.
Example Sentences Including 'misunderstanding'. It seems to be you who have suffered from misunderstanding of the position. You must simply explain to your friend that it was a matter of poor communication, of misunderstanding, of premature assumptions. This was no misunderstanding to be cleared by diplomacy, by compromise
misapprehension-an understanding of something that is not correct; he wasn't going to admit his mistake; make no mistake about his intentions; there must be some misunderstanding--I don't have a sister. mistake, misunderstanding. noun misunderstanding, mistake, error, delusion, misconception, fallacy, misreading, false impression, misinterpretation, false belief, misconstruction, wrong idea or impression We were under no misapprehension about the scale of the problem.
misunderstanding. Use misunderstanding in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a misunderstanding is a situation where something is not understood properly, or a quarrel or disagreement. 1  When you read something in a book and you don't understand its actual meaning but instead believe that it means something different entirely, this is an example of a misunderstanding of the book
misapprehension-an understanding of something that is not correct; he wasn't going to admit his mistake; make no mistake about his intentions; there must be some misunderstanding--I don't have a sister. mistake, misunderstanding. misconception-an incorrect conception. noun misunderstanding, mistake, error, delusion, misconception, fallacy, misreading, false impression, misinterpretation, false belief, misconstruction, wrong idea or impression We were under no misapprehension about the scale of the problem.
The instructions are carefully written in order to avoid/prevent misunderstanding. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. [count]. Her comments reflect a misunderstanding of the basic problem. using clear language to avoid misunderstandings. an unfortunate misunderstanding between old friends. We had our little misunderstandings in the past but we managed to clear them up long ago. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples.
misapprehension. noun misunderstanding, mistake, error, delusion, misconception, fallacy, misreading, false impression, misinterpretation, false belief, misconstruction, wrong idea or impression We were under no misapprehension about the scale of the problem.
misapprehension noun [C]. › a ​failure to ​understand something, or an ​understanding or ​belief about something that is not ​correct: He was under the misapprehension that those ​chemicals were ​banned. (Definition of misapprehension from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). 