There are four main principles of .NET from the perspective of the user: 1  It erases the boundaries between applications and the Internet. 2  Instead of interacting with an application or a single Web site, .NET will connect the user to an array of computers and services that will exchange and combine objects and data. 1 It erases the boundaries between applications and the Internet. 2  Instead of interacting with an application or a single Web site, .NET will connect the user to an array of computers and services that will exchange and combine objects and data.
ASP.NET is in the process of being re-implemented as a modern and modular web framework, together with other frameworks like Entity Framework. The new framework will make use of the new open-source .NET Compiler Platform (code-name Roslyn) and be cross platform. It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, web applications and web services. It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the .NET Framework, and is the successor to Microsoft's Active Server Pages (ASP) technology.
Programs written for .NET Framework execute in a software environment (as contrasted to hardware environment), known as Common Language Runtime (CLR), an application virtual machine that provides services such as security, memory management, and exception handling. FCL and CLR together constitute .NET Framework. Miguel de Icaza describes .NET Core as a redesigned version of .NET that is based on the simplified version of the class libraries, and Microsoft's Immo Landwerth explained that .NET Core would be the foundation of all future .NET platforms.
.NET Framework (pronounced dot net) is a software framework developed by Microsoft that runs primarily on Microsoft Windows. Miguel de Icaza describes .NET Core as a redesigned version of .NET that is based on the simplified version of the class libraries, and Microsoft's Immo Landwerth explained that .NET Core would be the foundation of all future .NET platforms.
A programming infrastructure created by Microsoft for building, deploying, and running applications and services that use .NET technologies, such as desktop applications and Web services. The .NET Framework contains three major parts: 1  the Common Language Runtime. 2  the Framework Class Library. 3  ASP.NET. 
A Microsoft operating system platform that incorporates applications, a suite of tools and services and a change in the infrastructure of the company's Web strategy. The .NET Framework supports building and running of next gen of applications and XML Web services. 1 It erases the boundaries between applications and the Internet. 2  Instead of interacting with an application or a single Web site, .NET will connect the user to an array of computers and services that will exchange and combine objects and data.
.NET is both a business strategy from Microsoft and its collection of programming support for what are known as Web services, the ability to use the Web rather than your own computer for various services. The full release of .NET is expected to take several years to complete, with intermittent releases of products such as a personal security service and new versions of Windows and Office that implement the .NET strategy coming on the market separately.
The .NET platform includes servers; building-block services, such as Web-based data storage; and device software. It also includes Passport, Microsoft's fill-in-the-form-only-once identity verification service. The full release of .NET is expected to take several years to complete, with intermittent releases of products such as a personal security service and new versions of Windows and Office that implement the .NET strategy coming on the market separately.
After four years of development, and a series of beta releases in 2000 and 2001, ASP.NET 1.0 was released on January 5, 2002 as part of version 1.0 of the .NET Framework. Even prior to the release, dozens of books had been written about ASP.NET, and Microsoft promoted it heavily as part of its platform for Web services. It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, web applications and web services. It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the .NET Framework, and is the successor to Microsoft's Active Server Pages (ASP) technology.