Answer by Eve3030. Confidence votes 57. Grapes are excellent sources of vitamins A, C, B6 and folate, containing almost all the beneficial minerals (potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron, selenium, phosphorus in high amounts and zinc, manganese and copper in smaller amounts). They are also loaded with proteins and fibers. Grapes are a source of the minerals copper,  potassium, manganese and iron. Grapes also contain  calcium, phosphorus, magnesium and zinc, but only in  trace amounts. … Grapes are also a good source of Vitamin C  and Vitamin A.  . 1 person found this useful
These grapes also contain vitamin K and vitamin B-6, though they have a lower concentration than Thompson seedless grapes, with 13.4 micrograms of vitamin K and 0.10 milligram of vitamin B-6 in a 1-cup serving. These grapes are an excellent source of riboflavin, with 1.1 milligrams of the vitamin per serving, an amount that supplies all of a woman's daily requirement and 85 percent of a man's. Also known as vitamin B-2, riboflavin aids in the synthesis of red blood cells.
What vitamins does grapes have?   Grapes are excellent sources of vitamins A, C, B6 and folate, containing almost all the beneficial minerals (potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron, selenium, phosphorus in … high amounts and zinc, manganese and copper in smaller amounts). They are also loaded with proteins and fibers. Grapes are a source of the minerals copper,  potassium, manganese and iron. Grapes also contain  calcium, phosphorus, magnesium and zinc, but only in  trace amounts. … Grapes are also a good source of Vitamin C  and Vitamin A.  . 1 person found this useful.
1. Vitamin C. Grapes contain high levels of vitamin C. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant that assists your body in ridding itself of free radicals within the body. These radicals can attack your cells, weaken your immune system and allow your body to catch certain diseases.
Grapes are a source of vitamins, with each cup providing 13.4 micrograms of vitamin K, or 17 percent of the daily value; 3.7 milligrams of vitamin C and 0.09 milligrams of thiamine, or six percent of the daily value for each of the latter two nutrients; and 0.1 milligrams of vitamin B-6, or five percent of the DV. Each one-cup serving of grapes contains 62 calories, 0.6 grams of protein, 0.3 grams of fat and 15.8 grams of carbohydrate, including 0.8 grams of fiber. (See Reference 1) This is about three percent of the daily 25-gram value for fiber for people who eat a 2,000-calorie diet.
Each 1-cup serving of fresh grapes contains 22 micrograms of vitamin K. For a man, this amount supplies 18 percent of his recommended daily allowance; for a woman, a cup of grapes fulfills 24 percent of her vitamin K requirement per day. If your diet lacks foods rich in vitamin K, you may be more likely to develop osteoporosis or bleed too much when injured. As an adult, you should get at least 1.3 milligrams of vitamin B-6 each day. Grapes contain 0.13 milligrams of vitamin B-6 in every cup, supplying 10 percent of the required daily intake. Also known as pyridoxine, vitamin B-6 is necessary for the production of neurotransmitters and hormones such as serotonin
What Vitamins Do Grapes Contain? Grapes are very good for health and they have a high content of vitamins D and C. Vitamin D is rarely found in natural foods, but is found in great abundance in sunlight. There are several health benefits of eating grapes for the body. Grapes contain flavonoids, phenolic acids and reversatrol. 
According to the USDA, canned grapes have a higher concentration of vitamin K and vitamin B-6 than raw grapes. Every 1-cup serving contains 24 micrograms of vitamin K, or 20 percent of a man's RDA and nearly 27 percent of a woman's. These grapes are an excellent source of riboflavin, with 1.1 milligrams of the vitamin per serving, an amount that supplies all of a woman's daily requirement and 85 percent of a man's. Also known as vitamin B-2, riboflavin aids in the synthesis of red blood cells.