To add a Calendar Control to Excel 2003, begin by clicking on a cell in the area of the spreadsheet where you want to make a calendar. Go to the Insert menu and click on Object. On the Create New tab of the Object dialog box, click Calendar Control and then click OK. In Excel 2007, go to the Developer tab of the ribbon and click Insert. Select ActiveX Controls and then More Controls. Select Calendar Control and click OK
If you want to insert such a calendar into your spreadsheet, you can do so by enabling Developer Mode from the program's main menu. Step 1. Click the Office button and select the Excel Options option from the drop-down menu that appears. Step 2. Click the Popular tab in the Options menu and place a check mark next to the Show Developer Tab in the Ribbon option. Click OK to save the changes. Step 5. Click on the upper left corner of the cell to which you want to add the calendar and drag your mouse pointer to the cell's bottom-right corner. This will draw a rectangle around the cell. Step 6. Release your mouse button to insert the calendar into the cell.
Step 4. Click and drag on the cell in which you want the calendar to appear. When you release the mouse, Excel will display a drop-down control that shows the current date. Excel also will highlight the Design Mode button. Date Picker doesn't allow date selection in design mode. You can find Date Picker on the Developer tab, which is hidden by default. Step 1. Create a new Excel workbook, click the File menu and choose Options.. Click the Customize Ribbon category and check the Developer check box in the Main Tabs pane. Click OK to see the Developer tab among Excel's other tabs. Step 2. Click the Developer tab's Insert button, which is in the Controls group. Excel will display a list of form controls and a button labeled More Controls for displaying additional controls
3) Start Excel and open a workbook. 2007: Click the Microsoft Office Button, click Excel Options, click the Add-Ins tab. 2010-201: Click on File, click on Options, click the Add-ins tab. In the Manage drop-down, choose Excel Add-ins, and click Go. Use Browse to select the add-in and then click on OK. Verify that the Date Picker is checked in the add-in list and then click OK. 4) Right click on a cell and choose Date Picker to open the user form. Note: The add-in is available as freeware.
Select the control in the list and press OK. Click on a cell on your worksheet. Press the Design Mode button next to the Insert button to turn of Design Mode. Excel 97-2010. It is possible you don't see it in the list, because it is installed with Access in Excel 97-2007. So if you don't have that program installed you possible don't have the control.
Pop-up Excel Calendar displays an in-cell icon button automatically when you click a cell which: 1  Has a date format. 2  To set the format of a cell in Excel, right click the cell and choose Format Cells. 1 Has a date format. 2  To set the format of a cell in Excel, right click the cell and choose Format Cells. 3  On the Number tab choose Date in the Category list, and then choose a proper date format in the Type list. 4  Has a date value.
In the Controls section of the Developer tab click the Insert button to display a selection of controls. Click the More Controls button to open the More Controls dialog. The More Controls dialog offers a list of additional controls that are available. Scroll down the list and find Microsoft Date and Time Picker Control. 1 In Excel 2007 click the Office Button and choose Excel Options. 2  In the Popular section of the Excel Options dialog check the box marked Show Developer tab in the Ribbon. 3  Click OK to return to Excel. 4  In Excel 2010 click the File tab, choose Options and in the Excel Options dialog choose Customize Ribbon