lymphocytes bone lymph nodes. The organs of the immune system either make the cells that participate in the immune response or act as sites for immune function. These organs include the lymphatic vessels, lymph nodes, tonsils, thymus, Peyer's patch, and spleen. The lymph nodes are small aggregations of tissues interspersed throughout the lymphatic system. White blood cells (lymphocytes) that function in the immune response are concentrated in the lymph nodes. Lymphatic fluid circulates through the lymph nodes via the lymphatic vessels. As the lymph filters through the lymph nodes, foreign cells of microorganisms are detected and overpowered
Organs of the immune system make cells, that either contribute in the immune response, or act as sites for the immune function. Major Organs of the Immune System. The main organs in the immune system are the bone marrow, thymus, spleen and lymph nodes. Let us have a look at these immune system organs and functions. Bone Marrow: All the cells of the human immune system are formed in the bone marrow, found within the bones, by a process called hematopoiesis. T-Cells: The main function of T-cells or T lymphocytes is intensifying immune system responses. They do this by secreting specialized factors, which in turn activate other white blood cells, to fight off infections. T-cells are again subdivided into different types.
Immune System. Organs of the Immune System: significance of the lymphatic and circulatory systems. Many organs are involved in the immune response like the lymphatic system, bone marrow, the spleen, and the thymus. Bone marrow, the spongy tissue inside of the bone, is the birthing ground for white blood cells. B cells mature in the bone marrow, but T cells travel to the thymus to grow. Just like blood travels through veins and arteries, the cells of the immune system have their own transportation system where they perform many functions. This is called the lymphatic system.
Immune System The immune system is a network of cells, tissues, and organs that work together to protect the body from infection. Although scientists have learned much about the immune system, they continue to study how the body targets invading microbes, infected cells, and tumors while ignoring healthy tissues.
Introduction T he immune system is a network ofcells, tissues *, and organs that worktogether to defend the body against attacksby “foreign” invaders. These are primarily microbes (germs)—tiny, infection-causing organisms such as bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi. 
The organs of the immune system are positioned throughout the body. They are called lymphoid organs because they are home to lymphocytes, small white bloodcells that are the key players in the immune system. There are two groups of immune system organs. 1  Primary (central)--organs where immature lymphocytes develop. 2  Thymus. 3  Bone marrow. 4  Secondary (peripheral)--tissues where antigen is localized so that it can be effectively exposed to mature lymphocytes.
The major organs of the immune system are bone marrow, thymus, spleen and lymph nodes. These organs produce lymphocytes required to destroy bacteria, virus, tumor cells, etc. This article dwells on these major immune system organs that protect the human body from infections. T-Cells: The main function of T-cells or T lymphocytes is intensifying immune system responses. They do this by secreting specialized factors, which in turn activate other white blood cells, to fight off infections. T-cells are again subdivided into different types.
In t the literature we find two groups of immune organs (or lymphoid organs as it is also part of the lymphoid System): Primary organs” - These are immune organs concerned with production and maturation of lymphoid cells and including bone marrow and thymus gland. “Secondary organs” - these immune organs are spots or sites in which the lymphocytes localize, identify unfamiliar antigens and triggers reaction in opposition to it. It Contains tonsils, lymph nodes, Spleen, Peyer’s patches (in the small intestines), appendix and liver. Talking about the immune organs (i'll get back to the immune system cells later): Primary Organs: Thymus-located beneath the breast bone. Those two lobes! It functions at its peak during adolescence producing specialized lymphocytes-T-cells and B-cells and dispatching them through lymph vessels to secondary organs.