Sign into My Verizon and select Bill & Payment in the left column. You can make a one-time payment with your checking or savings account, debit, credit or ATM card. In addition, you can enroll in Autopay and/or enroll in Paper Free Billing. Pay your bill in person. If you want to pay your bill in person, find an authorized payment location near you. 
Send or request money. 1  Open Gmail. 2  Click the Compose button. 3  Enter the email address of the person you want to send money to. 4  Add a subject and message text (optional). 5  Click the $ icon (£ for UK users). 6  If you don’t have Google Wallet yet, you’ll be asked to set up your account. 1 If you don’t have Google Wallet yet, you’ll be asked to set up your account. 2  To send money: Enter the amount you want to send and choose a funding source. 3  To request money: Click Request at the top of the box, and enter the amount you’d like to request. 4  Click Attach. 5  Look over your message one more time and click Send.
If your child's balance changes, the email notification is reset to send a new message. You should receive a 1st, 2nd, and Final notice when the balance goes below your selected minimum dollar amount and you do not make a deposit. If you have more than one child account, you may receive messages for each account. Click the Welcome, [Name] link drop-down at the top of the screen and select My User Profile or click Update Account Settings from the Home page. Click Edit next to the name of the student you would like to receive emails for. Then, check the box to request low balance notifications and fill in the amount.
1 Yes, you are in full control of how your customers can pay. 2  When you add a Pay Now button to your emailed invoice, you'll have the ability to turn on or off credit card processing and bank transfers for that particular invoice. 3  So say you have a $15,000 invoice you only want paid by Bank Transfer. 1 When you add a Pay Now button to your emailed invoice, you'll have the ability to turn on or off credit card processing and bank transfers for that particular invoice. 2  So say you have a $15,000 invoice you only want paid by Bank Transfer. 3  You got it.
You can add your Google Wallet Card to Android Pay and use it to pay with your Wallet Balance. Your Wallet Balance can also be used to send money to friends, make online purchases on Google Play, or accessed using the Wallet Card. You can send money to or request money from anyone in the US with an email address through the Google Wallet app, on Gmail, or at wallet.google.com. In the UK, you can send or request money only through Gmail. You can't send or receive money between the US and UK at this time.
1 Click the Compose button. 2  Enter the email address of the person you want to send money to. 3  Add a subject and message text (optional). 4  Click the $ icon (£ for UK users). 5  If you don’t have Google Wallet yet, you’ll be asked to set up your account. 1 If you don’t have Google Wallet yet, you’ll be asked to set up your account. 2  To send money: Enter the amount you want to send and choose a funding source. 3  To request money: Click Request at the top of the box, and enter the amount you’d like to request. 4  Click Attach. 5  Look over your message one more time and click Send.
new Google Wallet. Send money to anyone in the US with an email address. It's fast, easy, and free to send directly from your debit card, bank account, or Wallet Balance. When you receive money, you can quickly cash out to your bank account using your debit card, or spend it instantly with the Google Wallet Card. Spend safely. Your Google Wallet app can only be accessed with your Google payments PIN. You'll also use this PIN to make in-store purchases or to withdraw cash at ATMs with your Google Wallet card. If your Wallet Card is ever lost or stolen, you can cancel it using the Google Wallet app or at wallet.google.com.
1 Open Gmail. 2  Click the Compose button. 3  Enter the email address of the person you want to send money to. 4  Add a subject and message text (optional). 5  Click the $ icon (£ for UK users). 1 If you don’t have Google Wallet yet, you’ll be asked to set up your account. 2  To send money: Enter the amount you want to send and choose a funding source. 3  To request money: Click Request at the top of the box, and enter the amount you’d like to request. 4  Click Attach. 5  Look over your message one more time and click Send.