Islands of Trinidad and Tobago in the Caribbean. Due to recent separation from South America these island's flora and fauna reflect the ecology of equatorial South America more than any other Windward Island where biotic endemism is common. The two islands have a combined land area of 5,128 km2. Trinidad is currently separated from the mainland at its closest points, in both the north and the south, by distances of approximately 12 km, while Tobago lies another 30 km to the north-east.
The Caribbean, long referred to as the West Indies, includes more than 7,000 islands; of those, 13 are independent island countries (shown in red on the map), and some are dependencies or overseas territories of other nations. In geographical terms the Caribbean area includes the Caribbean Sea and all of the islands located to the southeast of the Gulf of Mexico, east of Central America and Mexico, and to the north of South America.
In a wider sense, the mainland countries of Belize, Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana are also included. Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America and are organized into 30 territories including sovereign states, overseas departments, and dependencies. 1 Politically, the Caribbean may be centred on socio-economic groupings found in the region. 2  For example, the bloc known as the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) contains the Co-operative Republic of Guyana, the Republic of Suriname in South America, and Belize in Central America as full members.
Hispaniola contains two countries--Haiti in the west and the Dominican Republic in the east. To the east and south of the Greater Antilles are the smaller islands of the Lesser Antilles, which include Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Leeward and Windward Island groups. The Caribbean also known as The West Indies are a collection of tropical islands that form a cultural region at the western edge of the North Atlantic Ocean. The islands form a long chain, called an archipelago, which separates the Caribbean Sea from the rest of the Atlantic.
Trinidad and Tobago is the largest LNG exporter to the United States. The Atlantic LNG Company of Trinidad and Tobago currently operates three LNG trains on the islands. The Atlantic plant is considered the largest single-train plant ever built, and the first LNG producer in the Latin America and Caribbean region. While many of the islands' economies contracted in 2002, Trinidad and Tobago and the Dominican Republic's economies continued to grow, with real gross domestic product (GDP) growth rates of 2.6% and 4.1%, respectively. Over the past decade, the Caribbean states have made efforts to integrate their economies.
Various islands in the Caribbean that were colonies of the United Kingdom, including Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, Jamaica, and those on the Leeward and Windward Islands, came together to form the Federation, with its capital in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. The West Indies Federation, also known as the Federation of the West Indies, was a short-lived political union that existed from 3 January 1958 to 31 May 1962.
(August 2009). Trinidad and Tobago on a world map. Trinidad (Spanish :  Trinity ) is the larger and more populous of the two major islands and numerous landforms which make up the island nation of Trinidad and Tobago. The island lies just 11 km (6.8 mi) off the northeastern coast of Venezuela and sits on the continental shelf of South America
Location: Trinidad and Tobago are the most southern islands in the Caribbean, located a mere seven miles off Venezuela's north eastern coast. The islands are a 3 hour and 19 minute flight from Miami, 4 1/2 hours from New York and 58 minutes from Caracas. 
The geography and climate in the Caribbean region varies: Some islands in the region have relatively flat terrain of non-volcanic origin. These islands include Aruba (possessing only minor volcanic features), Barbados, Bonaire, the Cayman Islands, Saint Croix, the Bahamas, and Antigua. 1 Politically, the Caribbean may be centred on socio-economic groupings found in the region. 2  For example, the bloc known as the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) contains the Co-operative Republic of Guyana, the Republic of Suriname in South America, and Belize in Central America as full members.
Economic growth, however, varies across the region. While many of the islands' economies contracted in 2002, Trinidad and Tobago and the Dominican Republic's economies continued to grow, with real gross domestic product (GDP) growth rates of 2.6% and 4.1%, respectively. Over the past decade, the Caribbean states have made efforts to integrate their economies.