The EVAP vent valve/control solenoid is mounted on a bracket by the fuel tank. The EAVP purge valve/control solenoid is mounted on the front top of the intake manifold. Just … behind the area where the throttle housing bolts to the front of the intake. It has an electric wires connected to it. 
Disconnect the EVAP canister vent valve electrical connector. Disconnect the canister pipe from the vent valve. Push in the retainer and remove the existing canister vent valve from the fuel tank clip or mounting bracket. Discard the old valve. Install the new canister vent valve to the fuel tank clip or mounting bracket. Cut bulk 5/8 heater hose to a length of approximately 76 mm (3 in). Install the hose between the vent valve and the canister pipe and secure using clamps.
Push in the retainer and remove the existing canister vent valve from the fuel tank clip or mounting bracket. Cut back the existing canister pipe approximately 51 mm (2 in) and retain the pipe for use with new valve. Connect the canister pipe quick connect to the canister. Install the new canister vent valve to the fuel tank clip or mounting bracket. Cut bulk 5/8 heater hose to a length of approximately 76 mm (3 in). Install the hose between the vent valve and the canister pipe and secure using clamps.
1 Connect the vent valve pipe to the EVAP canister. 2  Install the two vent valve pipe clips into the existing underbody holes. 3  Connect the EVAP canister vent valve electrical connector, if equipped. 4  Attach bulk 5/8 heater hose to the vent valve port and secure using a clamp. 1 Disconnect the vent valve pipe at the EVAP canister. 2  Remove and retain the EVAP canister vent valve bracket mounting bolt. 3  Remove the complete EVAP canister vent valve assembly with bracket attached and discard.
The vent valve solenoid is part of the evaporative emissions control system which absorbs fuel vapor from the fuel tank before it can be released into the environment. The vent valve opens to purge the vapors into the fuel system where they are burned in the combustion chambers. The system self-diagnoses when the engine is started, and any faults are reported to the vehicle's main computer. Replacing the vent valve solenoid in a 2000 Silverado is simple and straightforward. How to Replace the Vent Valve Solenoid on a 2000 Silverado. The vent valve solenoid is part of the evaporative emissions control... 1  How to Verify if a Chevy Tahoe Solenoid Vent Is Clogged.
09 silverado evap vent valve solenoid. Follow 09 silverado evap vent valve solenoid to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow 09 silverado evap vent valve solenoid to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following 09 silverado evap vent valve solenoid in your eBay Feed. 
The EVAP vent valve/control solenoid is mounted on a bracket by the fuel tank. The EAVP purge valve/control solenoid is mounted on the front top of the intake manifold. Just … behind the area where the throttle housing bolts to the front of the intake. It has an electric wires connected to it. The vent valve is located above the tank and below the bed near the junction of the back of the cab and the front of the bed. It has one 2 pin electrical connector and on tube going into it. The valve is normally open. The ECM only closes the valve for testing of the EVAP system
The vent control valve (also known as vent valve or EVAP vent solenoid) and vent hose (on the left of the vent control valve in the diagram) need to be checked for blockage; The vent control valve also needs to be tested; the vent control valve is an electrical solenoid valve that closes when the voltage is applied. The vent control valve closes when the ECM performs the leak test of the EVAP system. During the leak test, the ECM seals off the EVAP system by closing both, the vent control valve and the purge control valve (solenoid).
Disconnect the EVAP canister vent valve electrical connector. Disconnect the vent valve pipe quick connect from the canister. Either cut the existing valve vent pipe and leave the remaining section of pipe in the vehicle or remove along with the valve. Install the new canister vent valve to the fuel tank clip or mounting bracket. Cut bulk 5/8 heater hose to a length of approximately 76 mm (3 in). Install the hose between the vent valve and the canister pipe and secure using clamps.