Some of the chemicals used are: Aluminum An aluminum compound, usually listed as Aluminum Zirconium Tetrachlorohydrex GLY or Aluminum Chlorohydrate, is the main ingredient in antiperspirants – typically 14-20% of the total product. It is a metal which has been linked to breast cancer in women and increased risk of Alzheimer’s disease. 
Conventional antiperspirants and deodorants contain a variety of ingredients that current research is showing may be harmful to your health. Propylene glycol has been shown it to be a skin irritant and to cause allergic reactions even in concentrations as low as 2%. 1 In some deodorants, even “natural” ones, propylene glycol is the first or second ingredient. Parabens. Parabens are used as preservatives in a wide range of cosmetic and food products.
Aluminum chloride, aluminum chlorohydrate, and aluminum-zirconium compounds, most notably aluminum zirconium tetrachlorohydrex gly and aluminum zirconium trichlorohydrex gly, are the most widely used in antiperspirants. Antiperspirants on the other hand, try to prevent sweating by blocking the pores using aluminum. Without sweat, the bacteria cannot metabolize proteins and fatty acids that cause body odor. Antiperspirants are products that try to prevent sweating by
Conventional deodorants and antiperspirants use an aluminum compound as the active ingredient. Dove’s active ingredient is ALUMINUM ZIRCONIUM TETRACHLOROHYDREX GLYCINE COMPLEX (mmmm that sounds safe). Some studies have shown there to be a link between aluminum and Alzheimer’s and possibly some forms of breast cancers. 
Consequently, applying aluminum to the skin is a very effective way to get aluminum in your system, and in your brain. Aluminum was first recognized as a human neurotoxin in 1886, before being used as an antiperspirant. A neurotoxin is a substance that causes damage to nerves or nerve tissue. Antiperspirants on the other hand, try to prevent sweating by blocking the pores using aluminum. Without sweat, the bacteria cannot metabolize proteins and fatty acids that cause body odor. Antiperspirants are products that try to prevent sweating by
Use in Antiperspirants. Aluminum zirconium — or, more precisely, aluminum zirconium tetrachlorohydrex gly — is used in antiperspirants because it has several qualities that reduce sweating. It is absorbed by the skin, where the ions of aluminum and zirconium cause the skin cells to swell. Many antiperspirants contain aluminum zirconium. Although some people believe there to be a link between aluminum zirconium and Alzheimer's disease, but scientific research does not support this claim. Aluminum zirconium may be used in antiperspirants because it has qualities that can
These deodorants will be referred to as ‘natural deodorants’. It might be a surprise to learn that the antiperspirant you use daily is in fact an over-the-counter (OTC) drug. As mentioned, antiperspirants work by clogging, closing, or blocking the pores with aluminum salts in order to prevent the release of sweat. Antiperspirants on the other hand, try to prevent sweating by blocking the pores using aluminum. Without sweat, the bacteria cannot metabolize proteins and fatty acids that cause body odor. Antiperspirants are products that try to prevent sweating by
Propylene glycol was originally developed as an anti-freeze. In antiperspirants and deodorants it is used as a humectant and to increase absorption. Propylene glycol has been shown it to be a skin irritant and to cause allergic reactions even in concentrations as low as 2%. 1 In some deodorants, even “natural” ones, propylene glycol is the first or second ingredient. Parabens. Parabens are used as preservatives in a wide range of cosmetic and food products. They have been shown to mimic estrogen and are suspected to be endocrine system disruptors
The use of antiperspirant deodorant formulas has been subject to a lot of controversy due to the aluminum base and parabens (chemicals used as preservatives) - among other harsh and toxic substances such as solvents and some fragrances-that are used in many commercial products. 
Zirconium is also used in everyday home products. Zirconium compounds are used in deodorants, flashbulbs, lamp filaments, and in artificial gemstones. Cubic zirconia is a hard, clear, gem-like material that is marketed as an inexpensive diamond-like gemstone. Colored cubic zirconia is sold as simulants of many different gemstones. Substitutes and Alternative Sources: