Gastric bypass surgery Tummy tuck surgery. Treating ulcers that won't heal by Raquel Hunter. Ulcers that don't heal. About 90% of all stomach ulcers heal within 1 to 3 months of starting treatment. Ulcers that don't heal within 1 to 3 months of starting treatment are called Refractory Ulcers. Why Ulcers don't heal. There are many reasons why stomach ulcers don't heal. The number 1 reason is because people don't take their medications properly. 
Treatments for peptic ulcer can include: 1  Antibiotic medications to kill H. pylori. 2  Eliminating the bacteria which causes the H. pylori can be difficult. 3  Even though 80 to 90 percent of ulcers can be cured with antibiotics, it can still take time. Duodenal ulcers are not cancerous nor are they contagious. Stomach ulcer disease is common, affecting millions of Americans yearly. The size of a stomach ulcer can range between 1/8 of an inch to 3-6 inches. Stomach (gastric) ulcers can become malignant.
Avoid all alcohol until your ulcer is completely healed. Alcohol irritates the stomach lining, and it takes a while for the stomach to heal completely. If you're recovering from an ulcer, or any kind of stomach trouble, it's important to avoid alcohol while you're recovering. Even a beer or two can aggravate your ulcer. Aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause ulcers, and will exacerbate the symptoms. Avoid taking NSAIDS while you have an active ulcer, and for extended periods of times thereafter. 1  If you need to take medication to deal with pain symptoms, ask a doctor about your options.
With appropriate treatment from both a medication and the patient, stomach ulcers usually heal within three months. Depending on the severity of the sore (size and depth), it can take several months to completely heal a stomach ulcer if treatment is successful. Successful treatment includes the prevention of stomach ulcers becoming worse, too. This is why a healing environment in the stomach is a necessary component of a fast recovery from the condition. How stomach ulcers heal is related to their cause. Stomach ulcers may be caused by a number of things, including: 1  H. pylori, bacteria that exists in the stomachs of nearly half of the world’s population. 2  Eating foods that cause too much acid production or degradation of the mucous lining in the stomach
Treatment to get rid of H. pylori usually takes about 2 to 3 weeks. Your doctor may want you to take medicine that lowers the stomach acid for up to 8 weeks. Most ulcers heal within this time. Several other medicines can be used to help treat ulcers. Two types of medicines (H2 blockers and proton pump inhibitors) reduce the amount of acid that your stomach makes. They usually help people start to feel better within 3 days.
If you have an ulcer, you should be tested for H. pylori, and if found to be infected, you should be treated with antibiotics. Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers; therapy is 1-2 weeks of one or two antibiotics and a medicine that will reduce the acid in the stomach. This treatment is a dramatic medical advance because eliminating H. pylori with antibiotics means that there is a greater than 90% chance that the ulcer can be cured for good. 1 Most ulcers are caused by an infection, not spicy food, acid or stress. 2  The most common ulcer symptom is burning pain in the stomach. 3  Your doctor can test you for H. pylori infection. 4  Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers. 5  Eliminating H. pylori infections with antibiotics means that your
Ulcers are open sores found in the lining of the stomach, intestines or esophagus. Stomach and intestinal ulcers are most commonly caused by Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. 
One way to treat ulcers is to get rid of the H. pylori bacteria. Treatment may also be aimed at lowering the amount of acid that your stomach makes, neutralizing the acid and protecting the injured area so it can heal. Several other medicines can be used to help treat ulcers. Two types of medicines (H2 blockers and proton pump inhibitors) reduce the amount of acid that your stomach makes. They usually help people start to feel better within 3 days.
If you have a stomach ulcer, your treatment will depend on what caused it. With treatment, most ulcers heal in a month or two. If your stomach ulcer is caused by an Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacterial infection, a course of antibiotics and a medication called a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) is recommended. 