Database administrators use specialized software to store and organize data, such as financial information and customer shipping records. They make sure that data are available to users and are secure from unauthorized access. The median annual wage for database administrators (DBAs) was $77,080 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $42,930, and the top 10 percent earned more than $118,720.
A Database Administrator (DBA) earns an average salary of $69,909 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are UNIX, Oracle, Linux, and PL/SQL. Read More... A database administrator (DBA) is an IT professional who ensures that the software used to manage a database is properly maintained to allow rapid access when needed.
The role includes the development and design of database strategies, system monitoring and improving database performance and capacity, and planning for future expansion requirements. They may also plan, co-ordinate and implement security measures to safeguard the database. 
Database Administrators organize and manage a company's data. Database administrators ensure that business data is accurate, available and secure. The corporate database is the heart of key business systems that drive payroll, manufacturing, sales and more, so database administrators are recognized-and rewarded-for playing a crucial role in an organization's success.
Database administration is the function of managing and maintaining database management systems (DBMS) software. Mainstream DBMS software such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and Microsoft SQL Server need ongoing management. 
Job Description for Database Administrator (DBA). Read More... A database administrator (DBA) is an IT professional who ensures that the software used to manage a database is properly maintained to allow rapid access when needed.
A database administrator (DBA) directs or performs all activities related to maintaining a successful database environment. DBA is also an abbreviation for doing business as-a term sometimes used in business and legal writing. dBA is an abbreviation for A-weighted decibels.
It's been said that the database administrator (DBA) has three basic tasks. In decreasing order of importance, they are: protect the data, protect the data, and protect the data. Although data integrity is clearly the #1 job (who cares if the database is available or fast if the data isn't good), the DBA has many other jobs as well. Here's a list of the actual tasks that a DBA performs. (Some duties are common to all DBAs, and others are only required in some database environments.)
Database administrators, often called DBAs, make sure that data analysts can easily use the database to find the information they need and that the system performs as it should. DBAs sometimes work with an organization’s management to understand the company’s data needs and to plan the goals of the database. The median annual wage for database administrators (DBAs) was $77,080 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $42,930, and the top 10 percent earned more than $118,720.
What Database Administrators Do. Database administrators (DBAs) use specialized software to store and organize data, such as financial information and customer shipping records. They make sure that data are available to users and are secure from unauthorized access. The median annual wage for database administrators (DBAs) was $77,080 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $42,930, and the top 10 percent earned more than $118,720.