In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium. Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ]. Selected food sources of magnesium are listed in Table 2.
The magnesium content of refined foods is usually low. Whole-wheat breads, whole-grain cereals, and wheat pasta have twice as much magnesium as white bread or other refined products.
The majority of good magnesium sources contain only about 10% or less of recommended daily amounts, as seen in a list of the magnesium content in common food sources of magnesium. Those that do contain more, such as certain nuts, fish and whole grains, are often eaten in too small quantities by the average person.
Coming back to foods that contain magnesium, one of the reasons why the American people are magnesium deficient, on the average, is that they cook so much of their food. Even if people eat whole wheat, bread, the act of baking it under high heat kills a great deal of the magnesium in the wheat germ.
Sources of Magnesium. Food. Magnesium is widely distributed in plant and animal foods and in beverages. Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains, are good sources [ 1, 3 ].
Wheatgrass is also an excellent source of calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, sulphur, cobalt, and zinc Wheatgrass juice is a body builder. It is very high in enzymes and chlorophyll. It contains up to 70% chlorophyll, which is an important
Bran. The bran is the hard outer layer of the whole wheat grain that contains dietary fiber, antioxidants, B vitamins, and phytochemicals. This layer also contains most of the minerals in grain, such as iron, copper, zinc and magnesium.
So, we must take bone meal (which is pulverized young beef bone) not only for its calcium and phosphorus, but also because of the magnesium and the amount of valuable trace minerals it contains. Wheat germ is extremely rich in magnesium, so take a lot of it. So is kelp and brewer's yeast, sunflower and pumpkin seeds.