Additional pressure is placed on primate populations by humans hunting them to sell for food and pets. Monkeys and apes are popular sources of bush meat in West Africa. At least 22 species of primates and many other kinds of wild animals are being hunted in Africa for this purpose. The order Primates includes humans, apes, monkeys, and prosimians. Many of them may be familiar, but it would not be surprising if you cannot immediately visualize prosimians (like the ring-tailed lemurs in the picture on the right) . How many living primate species exist today is not clear
Gorillas, Chimps,Orangutans & Humans. The family Hominidae includes seven species including two species of gorillas, two species of orangutans, the chimpanzee, the bonobo, and humans. Also known as the “great apes”, hominids are large, tailless primates. Typically, hominids are diurnal omnivores that live in family groups. Historically, taxonomists considered humans as the only living member of the family Hominidae, with all other apes lumped into the family Pongidae. 
Just like humans, gorillas are diurnal. Because they are nomadic, they usually end up in a new location each night. At dusk, they prepare nests by shoving vegetation under and around themselves. They will bend soft trees and use plants with broad leaves to provide cushioning and a blanket against the cold. 
In short, yes. Although technically they are both diurnal and nocturnal. Wolverines are on a 4 hour cycle. What they do is nap for 4 hours, then venture out, forage and hunt f … or 4 hours. At night they sleep more than hunt because their eyesight is not as good as other nocturnal animals (ie. raccoon)
Behavior: This ground-living ape is diurnal, eating near its nest, moving every one to three days, depending upon food supply. Males nest on the ground, females and young nest on a platform built less than ten feet from the ground. Locomotion is quadrupedal with knuckle-walking. While the gorilla is the largest of the apes, the western lowland gorilla is the smallest of the three gorilla subspecies. There is obvious sexual dimorphism. Standing height for males 5 feet 6 inches, arm span 7 feet 8 inches, weight 325 pounds. Females are only half the weight of the males.
Even the terrestrial ones usually sleep in the trees. The most notable exceptions are humans and gorillas. Both of these species live on the ground with occasional tree climbing for fun, especially by children. Almost all primates are diurnal, which is to say, they are active during the day and sleep at night. The order Primates includes humans, apes, monkeys, and prosimians. Many of them may be familiar, but it would not be surprising if you cannot immediately visualize prosimians (like the ring-tailed lemurs in the picture on the right) . How many living primate species exist today is not clear
Gorilla Facts. Gorilla is the largest primate and the second closest relative (after chimpanzees) of humans. There are three subspecies of gorilla: Western Lowland, Eastern Lowland and Mountain gorillas. As their names suggest, these animals inhabit different parts of Africa and different types of habitat.
Example is a leopard gecko, rarely you would see them up in the day. Although most gecko species … are nocturnal, doing their daily activities at night, some species of gecko are diurnal. This means that they are active during the day. These species of geckos are called Phelsuma (day geckos). + 4 others found this useful. Beavers are nocturnal and diurnal (awake during the day, or non nocturnal, which is not the proper way to say it). Primarily, nocturnal though.
Other than that, gorillas eat ants, termites, insect larvae and worms. Gorillas are diurnal (active during the day) animals. They spend third part of the day in search for food, one third in eating and the rest of the day in resting. Gorilla builds a nest using the leaves. Nest can be located on the ground or on the trees, but gorilla never sleeps in the same nest twice. There are three subspecies of gorilla: Western Lowland, Eastern Lowland and Mountain gorillas. As their names suggest, these animals inhabit different parts of Africa and different types of habitat.