On 25 September 2013 a partnership between Pacific Biosciences and Roche Diagnostics was announced for the development of in vitro diagnostic products using the technology, with Roche providing US$75 million in the deal. In April 2012, scientists from Pacific Biosciences, the University of California, and other institutes used SMRT sequencing to prove the validity of activating internal tandem duplication mutations in FLT3 as a therapeutic target in acute myeloid leukemia.
DARA BioSciences. DARA is an oncology supportive care pharmaceutical company dedicated to providing healthcare professionals a synergistic portfolio of medicines to help cancer patients adhere to their therapy and manage side effects arising from their cancer treatments. 
Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc. is a biotechnology company founded in 2004 that develops and manufactures systems for gene sequencing and some novel real time biological observation. They describe their platform as single molecule real time sequencing (SMRT), based on the properties of zero-mode waveguides. In April 2012, scientists from Pacific Biosciences, the University of California, and other institutes used SMRT sequencing to prove the validity of activating internal tandem duplication mutations in FLT3 as a therapeutic target in acute myeloid leukemia.
Sutton Bonington Campus. Biosciences courses are mostly based at the Sutton Bonington Campus – a 40-acre site located 10 miles south of Nottingham, with easy access to nearby cities, national rail and road links and East Midlands Airport. Most biosciences students also have the opportunity to take a year working in industry as a paid employee between years two and three, recognised with your degree as an Industrial Placement Award.
The Center for Law and the Biosciences, directed by Professor Hank Greely, examines biotech discoveries in the context of the law, weighing their impact on society and the law’s role in shaping that impact. The Center is part of the Stanford Program in Law, Science & Technology. BioLaw, a new student organization devoted to law and the biosciences, works with the Center to sponsor regular seminars and conferences, and to cultivate student interest in the intersection of law and the biosciences.
Bioscience is the branch of the sciences concerned with living organisms, from microorganisms to towering trees and gigantic whales. Within this incredibly broad branch of the sciences, there are a number of smaller branches focused on specific issues which pertain to living organisms. Biochemistry, for example, is concerned with the chemistry of life, while botanists study plants exclusively. Bioscience is the foundation of many other schools of scientific inquiry, ranging from medicine to agronomy, and new discoveries in this field are being made every day.
PHD Biosciences (formerly Nanometics LLC) is a New York City based biosciences company developing small molecule therapeutics for diseases with high unmet medical need. 