Mesocortical pathway can be seen projecting to the prefrontal cortex from the VTA. The mesocortical pathway is a dopaminergic pathway that connects the ventral tegmentum to the cerebral cortex, in particular the frontal lobes. It is one of the four major dopamine pathways in the brain. This pathway may be the brain system that is abnormal or functioning abnormally in psychoses, such as schizophrenia. It is thought to be associated with the negative symptoms of schizophrenia, which include avolition, alogia and flat affect.
In addition to cortical upper motor neurons, there are also upper motor neurons whose cell bodies are located in brainstem nuclei. For the most part, these brainstem pathways project to spinal cord circuits involved in automatic movements. Because the brainstem nuclei and cortical motor areas communicate directly with the local controls of the spinal cord they are known as the descending pathways.
2 Definition. The geniculo-striate pathway is the set of axonal connections that project from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus to the primary visual cortex. It is the single-greatest source of thalamic input to visual cortex and serves to relay visual information from retina to cortex
Definition. Cortical Visual Impairment (CVI) is a temporary or permanent visual impairment caused by the disturbance of the posterior visual pathways and/or the occipital lobes of the brain. The degree of vision impairment can range from severe visual impairment to total blindness
A large fraction (at least 90%) of retinal ganglion cells project to visual cortex through the lateral geniculate nucleus. This pathway is thought to be most important for visual perception. 
Noun. 1. corticospinal tract-any of the important motor nerves on each side of the central nervous system that run from the sensorimotor areas of the cortex through the brainstem to motor neurons of the cranial nerve nuclei and the ventral root of the spinal cord. pyramidal motor system, pyramidal tract. 
primary motor pathway descending from motor cortex to brainstem (where it decussates) and thence to the spinal cord, subserving contralateral voluntary motor control; injuries to the corticospinal tract show characteristics of an upper motor neurone lesion. corticospinal tract, any of two groups of nerve fibers (the anterior corticospinal tract and lateral corticospinal tract) that originate in the cerebral cortex and run through the spinal cord. They are responsible for carrying motor fibers.
The information from the eye is carried by the axons of the retinal ganglion cells (the 3° visual afferent) to the midbrain and diencephalon. This chapter will provide more information about visual pathway organization and the visual processing that occurs within the brain. The inferior surface of the brain illustrating the visual pathway. The termination sites of the retinal ganglion cell axons in three nuclei that are not considered a part of the visual pathway are also illustrated.