BOMGAR, BOMGAR BOX, JUMP and UNIFIED REMOTE SUPPORT are trademarks of Bomgar Corporation. Android is a trademark of Google Inc; Mac, Mac OS, iPad, iPhone and Safari are trademarks of Apple Inc. Windows, Windows Mobile, and Remote Desktop Protocol are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. LogMeIn Rescue is a trademark of LogMeIn, Inc.
Bomgar Support Representative and Administrator features include: 1  Remote control-View and control desktops, laptops, servers, switches, POS systems and mobile devices. 2  Multi-platform support-Windows, Linux, Mac; iPhone, Android, BlackBerry and Windows Mobile smartphones; and iOS and Android tablets. The company originated when Joel Bomgaars developed his own remote support solution to cut back on wasted hours he spent travelling while working as a support professional for a local company.
http://www.bomgar.com/ - Bomgar is remote support software designed for the unique challenges of the enterprise. Our remote support solutions give support organizations easy, secure access to remote computers and mobile devices. 
Bomgar-scc.exe is a type of EXE file associated with Bomgar Support Customer Client developed by Bomgar Corporation for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Bomgar-scc.exe is 10.4.8 (23590), which was produced for Windows XP. Bomgar-scc.exe errors can be related to corrupt or outdated device drivers. Drivers can work one day, and suddenly stop working the next day, for a variety of reasons. The good news is that you can often update the device driver to fix the EXE problem.
bomgar-scc.exe is known as Bomgar Support Customer Client and it is developed by Bomgar, it is also developed by Bomgar Corporation. We have seen about 100 different instances of bomgar-scc.exe in different location. Check what your PC is running. bomgar-scc.exe is known as Bomgar Support Customer Client and it is developed by Bomgar, it is also developed by Bomgar Corporation. We have seen about 100 different instances of bomgar-scc.exe in different location. So far we haven't seen any alert about this product.
Bomgar is a remote support solution that allows support technicians to remotely connect to end-user systems through firewalls from their computer or mobile device. 
Using the Bomgar Representative Console, technology support professionals can access and control systems and devices remotely, including personal computers, smartphones, tablets, servers, switches, point-of-sale systems and others. The company originated when Joel Bomgaars developed his own remote support solution to cut back on wasted hours he spent travelling while working as a support professional for a local company.
BOMGAR, BOMGAR BOX, JUMP and UNIFIED REMOTE SUPPORT are trademarks of Bomgar Corporation. Android is a trademark of Google Inc; Mac, Mac OS, iPad, iPhone and Safari are trademarks of Apple Inc. Windows, Windows Mobile, and Remote Desktop Protocol are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.
SimpleHelp allows you to offer remote support to your customers, but at a fraction of the cost. The real question is not what benefit SimpleHelp has over Bomgar, but what benefit Bomgar has over SimpleHelp, and whether it is worth paying such a high premium. SimpleHelp is licensed as a one off cost. 