1 QUALIA: What it is like to have an experience Qualia include the ways things look, sound and smell, the way it feels to have a pain, and more generally, what it's like to have experiential mental states. 
In more philosophical terms, qualia are properties of sensory experiences by virtue of which there is something it is like to have them. Whether qualia actually exist is a hotly debated topic in contemporary philosophy of mind. The importance of qualia in contemporary philosophy of mind comes largely from the fact that they are often seen as being an obvious refutation of physicalism. Another way of defining qualia is as raw feels. A raw feel is a perception in and of itself, considered entirely in isolation from any effect it might have on behavior and behavioral disposition. In contrast, a cooked feel is that perception seen as existing in terms of its effects.
Qualia. Qualia are the subjective or qualitative properties of experiences. What it feels like, experientially, to see a red rose is different from what it feels like to see a yellow rose. Likewise for hearing a musical note played by a piano and hearing the same musical note played by a tuba. Paradigm examples of experiences with qualia are perceptual experiences (including nonveridical perceptual experiences like hallucinations) and bodily sensations (such as pain, hunger, and itching).
There are a number of different definitions for qualia. The definitions in use have changed over time. One of the simpler, broader, definitions is The 'what it's like' character of mental states. The way it feels to have mental states such as pain, seeing red, smelling a rose, etc' [1] . Another way of defining qualia is as raw feels. A raw feel is a perception in and of itself, considered entirely in isolation from any effect it might have on behavior and behavioral disposition. In contrast, a cooked feel is that perception seen as existing in terms of its effects.
From RationalWiki. Qualia (singular, quale) is a philosophical term referring to the experiential properties of sensation; the redness of red, the warmness of warmth, the garlickness of the taste of garlic, and so on. Controversies about qualia include: 1  Whether qualia exist at all. 2  Whether qualia is a useful concept/word. 3  Whether qualia have interesting epistemological properties, such as being irrefutable and/or ineffable. 4  Whether qualia can have unaccountable variations and absences. 5  Can computers have qualia.
Qualia. Qualia is a term used in philosophy to refer to individual instances of subjective, conscious experience. The term derives from a Latin word meaning for what sort or what kind.. Examples of qualia are the pain of a headache, the taste of wine, or the perceived redness of an evening sky
Qualia (from the Latin, meaning what sort or what kind; Latin and English singular quale, pronounced KWAHL-ay) are most simply defined as qualities or feelings, like redness, as considered independently of their effects on behavior. Another way of defining qualia is as raw feels. A raw feel is a perception in and of itself, considered entirely in isolation from any effect it might have on behavior and behavioral disposition. In contrast, a cooked feel is that perception seen as existing in terms of its effects.
(2) Qualia as properties of sense data. Consider a painting of a dalmatian. Viewers of the painting can apprehend not only its content (i.e., its representing a dalmatian) but also the colors, shapes, and spatial relations obtaining among the blobs of paint on the canvas. However, some philosophers hold that there are qualia in the sense of intrinsic nonrepresentational properties of experience. These philosophers deny representationalism, and identify qualia in the broad sense with intrinsic nonrepresentational properties of experience. This view is the subject of the present section.
In philosophy, qualia (/ˈkwɑːliə/ or /ˈkweɪliə/ ; singular form: quale) are individual instances of subjective, conscious experience. The term qualia derives from the Latin neuter plural form (qualia) of the Latin adjective quālis (. [ˈkwaːlis]) meaning of what sort or of what kind). Examples of qualia include the pain of a headache, the taste of wine, or the perceived redness of an evening sky. Since it is by definition impossible to convey qualia verbally, it is also impossible to demonstrate them directly in an argument; so a more tangential approach is needed. Arguments for qualia generally come in the form of thought experiments designed to lead one to the conclusion that qualia exist.