Driscoll’s ensures our raspberries are available year-round by growing in Central & Southern California, Central Mexico and Baja. We naturally breed berry plants to be more resistant to diseases and pests while producing berries that meet our strict quality standards for flavor, color and appearance. Our Golden Raspberries are grown to perfection on the California Central Coast. Learn More About Our Growing Regions. Driscoll’s raspberries pack a healthy punch of flavor and contain important nutrients for a healthy diet.
Raspberries are an important commercial fruit crop, widely grown in all temperate regions of the world. Many of the most important modern commercial red raspberry cultivars derive from hybrids between R. idaeus and R. strigosus. The raspberry (/ˈraezˌbɛri/) ˈræzˌbɛri is the edible fruit of a multitude of plant species in the Genus rubus of the rose, family most of which are in the Subgenus; idaeobatus the name also applies to these plants. Themselves raspberries are perennial with woody. stems
How to grow raspberries. Articles :: Design :: Links to plants :: Raspberries. Most raspberries bear red fruit but a few have white or yellow berries. Most ripen in July, some in September or October, and some in either season according to when they are pruned. 
Raspberries belong to a large group of fruits known as brambles, all in the plant genus Rubus. Three main types that can be grown in the home garden are red, black, and purple. (Yellow raspberries are red raspberries that don't make red pigment.) Raspberries can be grown successfully in most areas of Minnesota. Raspberries have perennial roots and crowns, but their canes (branches) live for only two summers.
Raspberries need some afternoon shade if grown in hot climates, but in most regions, full sun is key to growing raspberries with rich, sweet flavor. Raspberries can produce for many years if grown in fertile, weed-free soil that drains well and has a pH of about 6.0. The most cold-tolerant varieties can survive Zone 3 winters, and fall-bearing raspberries can be grown in warm climates that have limited winter chilling. All types of raspberries — including summer reds, golden raspberries and super-nutritious black raspberries — make excellent boundary plantings in Zones 4 to 7.
To be on the safe side remove as much of the soil from the raised bed as you can before adding new soil and compost, or grow the plants in big pots this year. It's not recommended to plant black raspberry plants close to red raspberries as they are susceptible to mosaic virus. The raspberry plants will do better if you plant them in the ground. They need to go dormant over the winter. Plant them as soon as possible so that they may have a chance to start growing some roots before the ground freezes. Add a layer of mulch around them for protection.
Delicious, nutritious and easy to grow, raspberries are a valuable addition to any food garden. The most cold-tolerant varieties can survive Zone 3 winters, and fall-bearing raspberries can be grown in warm climates that have limited winter chilling. All types of raspberries — including summer reds, golden raspberries and super-nutritious black raspberries — make excellent boundary plantings in Zones 4 to 7.
Varieties. Red raspberries are the most commonly grown, but there are varieties of purple, black, or yellow berries that are adapted to Massachusetts. Purchase certified, virus-free plants from a reliable nursery. They cost more, but the benefits of having more vigorous, productive plants outweigh the extra cost. Of all the small fruits, raspberries are gaining the most popularity. The berries are versatile and can be used as fresh fruit, in preserves, or in pies and pastries. Newer plant varieties are productive and easy to grow. Raspberries may be grown successfully at an elevation as high as 7,000 feet.
About raspberries. Raspberries are best grown from bare-root plants in the autumn. There are lots of different varieties available, which bear fruit at different times. The majority are harvested between early and late summer, while others are grown for their autumn berries. 
1 Raspberry plants need full sun to produce the most fruit. 2  The plant will grow in part shade, but harvests will be meager. 3  Space red and yellow types 2 to 3 feet apart; space black and purple types 4 feet apart. 4  Raspberries are self-fertile. Three main types that can be grown in the home garden are red, black, and purple. (Yellow raspberries are red raspberries that don't make red pigment.) Raspberries can be grown successfully in most areas of Minnesota. Raspberries have perennial roots and crowns, but their canes (branches) live for only two summers.