The exact amount of time will vary by lender, school and time of year, but in general, the process can take as little as 2 weeks and as long as 2 months. Since the loan funds will be sent directly to your school, any money left over after the school applies your loan to your account will be refunded to you. Yes.
The time taken to process your loan is dependent on a number of factors, including: 1  Requirement of a valuation. 2  Complexity of your loan. 3  Availability of supporting documents i.e. your payslips, credit card statements etc.
After credit approval, you may access funds within 1-2 business days. Unsecured personal loans generally range from 12 to 48 months and up to 60 months, depending on the amount borrowed. Secured personal loan terms may extend to 120 months, depending on the type of collateral you use and availability in your state. The maximum amount available for an unsecured personal loan is $100,000.
Tips for a fast Home Loan Application. To make your application process quick and easy, you can use our handy checklist to help you prepare the documents you need to provide. In many cases, incorrect documents or not enough documentation is bought to the home loan interview which can cause delays.
Applying for a personal loan through loanDepot is quick and simple. You can even check your rate without affecting your credit score. Click here to apply now online or call us at 800-656-2606 and one of our consumer lending specialists can take your application over the phone.
The loan can be repaid over a period of 12 to 60 months. A processing fee of 2% to 2.25% depending on the company you are employed in and location of the loan will be levied. This fee will be deducted from the disbursal amount payable to you.
Start the home loan process by applying for a mortgage pre-approval as soon as you decide to start looking for a home to buy. A mortgage pre-approval letter is a great thing to have when shopping for a home. It gives you, and the seller of a property you are interested in, an idea of how much you can spend.