i bought some red cannas on craigslist and planted them about 3-4 weeks ago. it's been pretty cold and wet here so they've stayed moist most of the time. anyway, just wondering how long people usually wait before seeing spikes start coming out. 
1 Some varieties can grow as high as 6 feet (1.83 m) tall. 2  Take flower size into consideration when selecting the ideal location for your cannas. 3  In climates that are warm all year long, cannas do not need to be removed from the ground for the winter. 4  Simply add a dose of fertilizer in the spring. 2. Water your cannas regularly. Cannas need moist soil, so its important to water your cannas regularly. If you live in an area where rainfall is one inch or less (2.54 cm) each week, you will need to water your cannas once a week. If you find yourself in a dry spell, water whenever you notice the soil getting dry
It’s recommended to divide cannas every 3 to 4 years. It’s a good idea to dig them up and divide the plants. You can plant a few on the east/north side of the house and see how they grow. Plant the rest in the old spot after you have added some fresh compost and soil. 1 Exotic, tropical creatures, cannas need lots of sunshine and fertile, moist soil but you don't have to pamper them. 2  Cannas can be started in the house in small pots if your gardening season is short. 3  Where not hardy, plant outdoors in early summer—around the same time you'd put in tomato plants.
Comments. Submit. Canna seeds germinate in about one week. When you plant rhizomes in the ground at an average depth of 2 to 3 inches, canna seeds sprout within a few days to a few weeks. The key determinants are heat, moisture and soil conditions, along with rhizome species, size and quality
Cover the seeds in water and leave for about 48 hours. If you forget about them for an extra few days it does not seem to matter.They just start to grow in the glass. go. After a couple of days in soak, they need to be planted. They can either be planted in individual cells trays or in 3 - 4 inch flower pots. 
After the first frost dig up the canna bulbs and cut off the foliage to about 2-3 inches from the bulb. Place the bulbs in a dry area to cure for a couple of days. Then wrap the bulbs in newspaper and store in a cool, dry place for the winter. Do not water. In the spring plant outside and then dig up in the fall. 1 Exotic, tropical creatures, cannas need lots of sunshine and fertile, moist soil but you don't have to pamper them. 2  Cannas can be started in the house in small pots if your gardening season is short. 3  Where not hardy, plant outdoors in early summer—around the same time you'd put in tomato plants.
Canna lilies can take 90 to 120 days to flower from the time the seeds are sown.. Canna lilies (Canna x generalis) can add an exotic feel to your garden. The ornamental plants, which resemble banana trees, have paddle-like leaves, and flowers in shades ranging from yellows and oranges to pinks and reds. 
Unlike most bulbs, cannas can thrive in moist soils but will not tolerate standing in water puddles. 3- How to Plant your Canna Bulbs: For outdoor planting, dig holes that are 4 to 6 inches deep, and 2 feet apart for tall varieties and 1 foot for the others. Then dig in a little peat moss and perlite.
By Nikki Phipps (Author of The Bulb-o-licious Garden). The canna lily plant is a rhizomatous perennial with tropical-like foliage and large flowers that resemble that of iris. Canna lilies are low maintenance and easy to grow, and both their flowers and foliage offer long-lasting color in the garden. Flower color may be red, orange or yellow. Depending on the variety, foliage color varies from green to maroon, bronze, and variegated types.