King Crab Legs are already cooked when you purchase them. King crab legs are cooked on the fishing boats or immediately upon landfall to preserve freshness (the crab is caught, cooked, then blast frozen to preserve its fresh taste). Because of this, King Crab need only to be adequately heated before eating. Melt butter in a large skillet with cover over medium heat. Add garlic and cook 1 1/2 minutes, until aromatic; do not let it burn. Add stock, salt, pepper and crab legs. Cover and simmer 6 minutes. This may have to be done in batches if they don't all fit into the pan at one time.
To bake crab legs, preheat an oven to 350 degrees. Place the crab legs in a shallow baking pan in single layers. Place hot water in the pan about 1/8 of an inch deep. Cover the pan with aluminum foil and bake for eight to ten minutes. Boiled Crab Legs. To boil crab legs, simply fill a large saucepan half full of cold water and bring to a boil. Add a tablespoon of salt and the seasoning of your choice, if any. When the water begins to boil add the crab legs and reduce the heat to medium. Allow them to simmer for about six minutes.
1 Add the crab legs, placing them onto a rack in the bottom of the pan or into the steaming basket. 2  As the water starts to boil again, begin timing. 3  Steam the crab legs for between 5 - 7 minutes, until you can begin to smell their aroma and until they are warm. To boil crab legs. 1  Half fill a large saucepan with cold water and add a tablespoon of sea salt and seasoning if you wish. 2  Bring the water to the boil and then drop the crab legs in. 3  Reduce the heat slightly and allow the crab legs to simmer and heat up for 5 - 7 minutes.
Cooking Frozen Crab Legs. Most frozen crab legs are already pre-cooked so they will just need to be heated. When cooking frozen crab legs, we have found the best way is to place them in a colander or steamer over rapidly boiling water. The pot should be about one-third of the way filled with water. You will need to cover the pot and steam your frozen crab legs for about ten minutes or until they are completely heated. Boiled Crab Legs. To boil crab legs, simply fill a large saucepan half full of cold water and bring to a boil. Add a tablespoon of salt and the seasoning of your choice, if any. When the water begins to boil add the crab legs and reduce the heat to medium. Allow them to simmer for about six minutes.
Ad. 2. Fill a large stock pot with water. Cover it. Set it to boil on your stove. 1  Make sure you have a cover and steamer insert for this method of cooking. 2  Consider beer steaming your crab legs. 3  Pour a ratio of 1 part beer to 1 part water in your steamer.
Most crab legs are cooked and frozen on the fishing boat as soon as the crab is caught. This means they are usually sold frozen as well. 1  Look for crab legs that are fairly thick to ensure they will be meaty and easy to eat. 2  Avoid those with a lot of ice crystals or that look like they have been frozen for too long. 
To steam crab legs. 1  Pour 2 cups of water in a steamer or a large pot, add 1 tablespoon of salt and bring to the boil. 2  Add the crab legs, placing them onto a rack in the bottom of the pan or into the steaming basket. 3  As the water starts to boil again, begin timing. To boil crab legs. 1  Half fill a large saucepan with cold water and add a tablespoon of sea salt and seasoning if you wish. 2  Bring the water to the boil and then drop the crab legs in. 3  Reduce the heat slightly and allow the crab legs to simmer and heat up for 5 - 7 minutes.
If you want the crab meat hot, then you literally want to just heat the meat. You want water involved otherwise the meat might dry out and be tough. If the legs are small enough, I just put them in a pot of salted water (about 1 inch of water) and put the lid on. I boil the legs for about 10 minutes. Some people like to put Old Bay seasoning in the water. I don't mind this for snow crab, but I think it ruins King Crab. If the crab is cooked, the top of the shell on the legs will be a nice red color and the bottom a nice white. If they are raw, the top of the leg shell will be kind of a bluish/gray color and the bottoms are still white(ish). I'll assume they are cooked.
They are probably cooked as I have yet to see a frozen, uncooked crab. If the crab is cooked, the top of the shell on the legs will be a nice red color and the bottom a nice white. If they are raw, the top of the leg shell will be kind of a bluish/gray color and the bottoms are still white(ish). I'll assume they are cooked. If they are cooked, you can literally thaw them and eat them