Orangery Extension Prices. Orangery prices are dependent on the size, configuration, features and styling. Orangery prices can range from £7995 to £100,000+. Small timber framed orangeries are generally the cheapest whilst larger orangery extensions will typically range from £20,000 onwards. The average cost of Orangeries ranges between £20,000 and £50,0000, again this is all down to a number of factors. People deciding between a conservatory or an orangery should take note of the price differences due to the roof and overall structure. Conservatories in wood tend to be cheaper due to the pitched roof whereas an Orangery will also require a roof lantern.
Written guarantees for materials & workmanship on all installations, combined with the most competitive Orangery prices in the UK. Our panel of installers covers the UK: You can access an extensive range of products & services giving you the maximum amount of choice. As soon as we receive your quote request we start to work hard on your behalf, we don’t take commission from any installers so you know that we have your best interest at heart.
Getting an Orangery price quote or a Conservatory quote couldn't be easier, simply give us a call on 0843 8868 552 or fill out our call back request form and a member of our specialist team will give you a call back. Hardwood OrangeriesLearn more about our Orangery products from Timber to Oak Orangeries in any shape, style, wood stain etc. Wooden Conservatories Browse our range of bespoke hardwoodconservatories also available in Timber and Oak, made to any size specification.
This would include: full installation, 3 x double Eelectric sockets, Plaster finish. I would say the average size upvc orangeries that we build are about £34,000 to £37,000 again for a full build project. These projects would be around 3.5 x 4.5 metres and include for electrics and plastering. 
Orangery Conservatories. Orangeries can trace their beginnings in Europe around the 16th Century, where folks really enjoyed collections of citrus fruit plants & trees; however, today they are all about individual and unique living spaces. 
Read more. We are a nationwide supplier of high quality Orangery, Conservatory and Garden Room structures. We make all of our Orangeries and Conservatories in-house using-quality, long-lasting hardwoods including Sapele, Oak and Idigbo. Hardwood OrangeriesLearn more about our Orangery products from Timber to Oak Orangeries in any shape, style, wood stain etc. Wooden Conservatories Browse our range of bespoke hardwoodconservatories also available in Timber and Oak, made to any size specification.
Depending on design and size, stone work can add between £3,000 and £10,000 to an average size project. Tiled roofs on conservatories-a design generally called a garden room-will add between £2,000 and £5,000 to the cost of an average size conservatory. Conservatory blinds. Basic blinds start at around £2,000 for an average size conservatory. Pinoleum blinds for a 16 square metre start at around £5,000 and electric blinds with remote control will usually cost over £10,000.
The average quote for a typical conservatory tends to be around the £5,000 and up mark. With that said though it is quite possible to get one for half that price, particularly if you want something basic and you are intending to erect it on your own. Conservatory prices vary, as there are a wealth of styles and qualities to choose from. Make sure you opt for a professional, reliable supplier (and fitter), to ensure your conservatory is built to last. Below is a rough guide of current conservatory prices for 2014.
Orangery costs depend on size, style, features & other factors. Orangeries tend to be more expensive than a similarly sized conservatory, but depending on the options chosen for framing and glazing, orangery costs can still be very reasonable. People deciding between a conservatory or an orangery should take note of the price differences due to the roof and overall structure. Conservatories in wood tend to be cheaper due to the pitched roof whereas an Orangery will also require a roof lantern.
Orangeries. Individually Designed To Your Requirements High quality extensions for new family living space, each one unique and tailored to your preferences, a fantastic way to improve your home and add real value. As soon as we receive your quote request we start to work hard on your behalf, we don’t take commission from any installers so you know that we have your best interest at heart.