The country of Madagascar is an island situated 400 km off the east coast of Africa, separated from the mainland by the Mozambique Channel. It is the fourth large island, stretching 1,580 km from north to south and 600 km from east to west, with a coastline of about 5,000 km. 
Print this map. Print this map. Madagascar, an island in the Indian Ocean off the southeastern coast of Africa, is the fourth-largest island in the world. The island is characterized by its early isolation from Africa and India, and colonization didn't begin until 200 BC through 500 AD. 
Geography. Madagascar lies in the Indian Ocean off the southeast coast of Africa opposite Mozambique. The world's fourth-largest island, it is twice the size of Arizona. The country's low-lying coastal area gives way to a central plateau. 
Lowest Point: The Indian Ocean. Madagascar (map) is a large island nation located in the Indian Ocean east of Africa and the country Mozambique. It is the fourth largest island in the world and it is an African country. Madagascar's official name is the Republic of Madagascar. Madagascar's capital and largest city, Antananarivo, which is located in the northern part of the country somewhat away from the coast has a January average high temperature of 82°F (28°C) and a July average low of 50°F (10°C).
(December 2008). Madagascar is an island in the Indian Ocean off the eastern coast of southern Africa, east of Mozambique. It is the fourth largest island in the world. The highest point is Maromokotro, in the Tsaratanana Massif region in the north of the island, at 2,876 metres (9,436 ft). The capital Antananarivo is in the Hauts Plateaux near the centre of the island. It has a total area of 587,040 square kilometres (226,660 sq mi) with 581,540 square kilometres (224,530 sq mi) of land and 5,500 square kilometres (2,100 sq mi) of water. Madagascar originated as part of the Gondwana supercontinent.
Off Africa's southeast coast in the Indian Ocean, Madagascar is the world's fourth largest island after Greenland, New Guinea, and Borneo. A stunning diversity of plant and animal species found nowhere else evolved after the island broke away from the African continent 165 million years ago. 
Africa is a continent, it has countries not states. Some consider  Madagascar part of Africa put the people who live there don't.   -------------------------------------- … --------------------   Madagascar is a large island several hundred miles of the east  coast of southern Africa. It is not part of Africa. 2 people found this useful.
Madagascar is considered a part of southern Africa as it is located in the Indian Ocean east of Mozambique. It is a large island that has a narrow coastal plain with a high plateau and mountains in its center. Madagascar's capital and largest city, Antananarivo, which is located in the northern part of the country somewhat away from the coast has a January average high temperature of 82°F (28°C) and a July average low of 50°F (10°C).
Madagascan wildlife. Around 80% of Madagascar's wildlife is found nowhere else as a result of the island's strange geological history. Once part of the Gondwana supercontinent, Madagascar lost contact with Africa (160 million years ago), then with Antarctica, Australia and finally India.