Directions. 1  Mix peanut butter, margarine or butter, powdered sugar, and vanilla in bowl (It helps to soften the margarine). 2  Shape into 1 balls. 3  Refrigerate balls. 4  Meanwhile, melt chocolate with a bit of crisco (so the chocolate will harden. 5  Insert toothpick into refrigerated balls and dip into chocolate, leaving small area resembling a buckeye. 6  Co 1 Mix peanut butter, margarine or butter, powdered sugar, and vanilla in bowl (It helps to soften the margarine). 2  Shape into 1 balls. 3  Refrigerate balls. 4  Meanwhile, melt chocolate with a bit of crisco (so the chocolate will harden.
COMBINE peanut butter, butter, vanilla and salt in large bowl. Beat with an electric mixer on LOW until blended. Add 2 cups powdered sugar, beating until blended. Beat in additional powdered sugar until mixture, when shaped into a ball, will stay on a toothpick. Shape into 1-inch balls. Refrigerate. DIRECTIONS: 1  COMBINE peanut butter, butter, vanilla and salt in large bowl. 2  Beat with an electric mixer on LOW until blended. 3  Add 2 cups powdered sugar, beating until blended. 4  Beat in additional powdered sugar until mixture, when shaped into a ball, will stay on a toothpick. 5  Shape into 1-inch balls. 6  Refrigerate.
The wood of the buckeyes is pale and light, and it is sometimes used for paper, crate, and novelty item production. There are seven species of buckeye native to the United States, mostly found in the eastern half of the country. Ohio buckeye (Aesculus glabra) is an attractive tree often recognized by its rounded canopy and thick, deeply fissured, gray bark. The tree is valued for its early, showy spring flowers and for the equally early and striking orange and yellow color show its leaves produce in autumn or late summer.
Directions. 1  With an electric mixer, beat the peanut butter and butter at medium speed until creamy. 2  Reduce the mixer speed to low and mix in the confectioners’ sugar, vanilla, and salt (the mixture will be crumbly). 3  Roll tablespoonfuls of the dough into balls and place on a wax paper-lined baking sheet. 
Ready In. 1  In a large bowl, mix together the peanut butter, butter, vanilla and confectioners' sugar. 2  Press a toothpick into the top of each ball (to be used later as the handle for dipping) and chill in freezer until firm, about 30 minutes. 3  Melt chocolate chips in a double boiler or in a bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water. 4  Dip frozen ... 1 The dough will look dry. 2  Roll into 1 inch balls and place on a waxed paper-lined cookie sheet. 3
Instructions: 1  Mix together peanut butter, butter, salt, and vanilla extract. 2  Work in the powdered sugar until it's completely incorporated. 3  Roll the peanut butter mixture into 1 balls. 4  Place on a parchment-lined baking sheet and freeze for 15-20 minutes. 5  Melt the chocolate and shortening in a double boiler. Tips for making buckeyes or peanut butter balls: 1  If your butter isn't room temperature, you can quickly soften it with this tip or microwave it in 10 second intervals until it's softened. 2  Work the powdered sugar in a little at a time using a wooden spoon.
Directions. Line a baking sheet with parchment. Beat the confectioners' sugar, peanut butter, butter, vanilla and salt with an electric mixer in a medium bowl until well combined. Scoop 2-teaspoonful mounds, and roll into balls; arrange them on the prepared baking sheet. Refrigerate until firm, about 20 minutes. Best Buckeyes EVER! I have made Buckeyes for years and these are so simple and taste so light. I will never made my old recipe again. pumpvixen 2014-12-16T18:28:22Z item not reviewed by moderator and published.