Irish engagement rings encompass a wide array of designs, from the knots and braids of the ancient Celts to the more recent style of Claddagh rings. If you are looking for a ring that symbolizes enduring love, these Irish rings are the perfect choice. Custom Irish Engagement Rings. If you have a unique vision of your perfect Irish engagement ring, you may want to work with a custom jewelry design expert to bring that vision to life! For Claddagh rings, a popular option is adding a heart shaped diamond or colored gemstone to the center.
A new tradition is to have each partner wear a Celtic ring that has the birthstone of the loved one embedded into the design. While they are popular with people on every continent, a Celtic ring is a great way for someone of Irish descent to take pride in their heritage. Claddagh earrings and pendants are also available but, because they are not worn on the right or left hand, they don’t signal the romantic status of the wearer. Whether you wear your Celtic ring on your right hand or your left, it is a beautiful way to let everyone know that there is love in your life. The gifting process is reciprocal; it means so much to both the giver and the receiver of the ring
The Meaning of Celtic Symbols. Celtic rings are a beautiful way to wear variations of the ancient celtic knot designs. There is much speculation and scholarly guesses associated with the meaning of celtic knots. The Celts didn't keep records of the meanings of the designs they created but they were included in so many areas of their life. 
Celtic wedding rings are based on celtic tradition and history. Celtic wedding rings are very popular around the world. They are equally popular with men and ladies. Each celtic wedding ring has a special ancient meaning, a meaning that can give your celtic ring a special significance above other types of ring styles. The wide range of celtic rings available at Gillett's Jewellers each represent a special quality and meaning.
Celebrate your celtic heritage with this stunning clover leaf celtic ring. The shamrock is a beloved symbol of Ireland that is immediately recognizable to almost everyone. This ring brings you the Luck of the Irish with green enamel clovers on a spinning band. If you like to show off your heritage in a big way, look no further than this spiral Celtic knot ring. This sterling silver jewelry piece is made of .925 stamped silver with a Celtic knots and spiral rope designs lining the band and a Celtic spiral on the Celtic ring face.
The Claddagh ring (Irish: fainne Fáinne) chladaigh is a Traditional irish ring given which represents, love, loyalty and (friendship the hands represent, friendship the heart represents, love and the crown represents). loyalty Fede rings are distinctive in that the bezel is cut or cast to form two clasped hands that symbolize faith and trust or plighted troth . The Claddagh ring is a variation on the fede ring, while the hands, heart, and crown motif was used in England in the early 18th century.
Celtic Ring Design Celtic rings are often called Celtic wedding rings or claddagh rings. They were first seen over 300 years ago in the Irish fishing village called the Claddagh, from an Irish term meaning “flat stony shore.” The earliest rings were made of gold and show two hands presenting a heart between them. Claddagh earrings and pendants are also available but, because they are not worn on the right or left hand, they don’t signal the romantic status of the wearer. Whether you wear your Celtic ring on your right hand or your left, it is a beautiful way to let everyone know that there is love in your life. The gifting process is reciprocal; it means so much to both the giver and the receiver of the ring
Celtic Rings. A collection of beautiful Celtic rings inspired by the ancient symbols and ornate designs of the Irish Celt tradition. Finely crafted Celtic rings featuring the trinity knot or the Claddagh or based on designs the famous Book of Kells. Unique Celtic wedding bands in gold and sterling silver. 