The Human circulatory system is an organ system that is mainly concerned with transportation of nutrients, gases, blood cells and hormones throughout the body, through a network of blood vessels. It is also the main cooling as well as transportation system of the body.
The main function of the circulatory system is to get blood throught the body. Your blood is pumped around by the heart which is the main function in your circulatory system. The heart sends blood through your blood vessels. The circulatory system consists of the heart, blood vessels, lymph, blood, and the lymphatic vessels and glands.
The circulatory system consists of the heart, blood and blood vessels. The functions of the circulatory system are: to carry nutrients to and waste away from every cell in your body As the name suggests, the circulatory system is involved with circulating blood (or fluid connective tissue) throughout the body.
The circulatory system is a body-wide network of blood, blood vessels, and lymph. Powered by the heart, it is the body’s distribution system to organs with oxygen, hormones and essential nutrients that helps it function properly.
The pulmonary vein sends the oxygen-rich blood back to the heart, according to NLM. The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted.
The heart functions as a pump to move blood through the blood vessels of the body. A circulatory system is essential for large, multi-cellular organisms, such as humans and animals, and provide at least five major functions that are necessary for life.
The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells.
Heart, blood and blood vessels are the three crucial components of the circulatory system. The major function of this organ system is to carry oxygen and nutrients to every cell and tissue of the body.