Women can be expected to go through a number of tests that might include: 1  Ovulation and hormone testing: Testing is done through various methods to determine whether hormonal imbalances or ovulation issues are leading to infertility. But, before they get to that point, a barrage of testing is done to answer the question 'how do I know if I am infertile'. Reasons for infertility involve a myriad of factors, so be prepared to take a lot of tests. Often, you will get a recommendation for a fertility clinic and doctor from your general practitioner.
Women are born with a finite number of eggs. Thus, as the reproductive years progress, the number and quality of the eggs diminish. The chances of having a baby decrease by 3% to 5% per year after the age of 30. This reduction in fertility is noted to a much greater extent after age 40. 1 Hormonal causes. 2  Some women have problems with ovulation. 3  Synchronized hormonal changes leading to the release of an egg from the ovary and the thickening of the endometrium (lining of the uterus) in preparation for the fertilized egg do not occur.
In women, changes in the menstrual cycle and ovulation may be a symptom of a disease related to infertility. Symptoms include: 1  Abnormal periods. 2  Bleeding is heavier or lighter than usual. 3  Irregular periods. 4  The number of days in between each period varies each month. 5  No periods. 
The best way to determine if you are infertile (if you already meet the 1 year of trying unsuccessfully), is to see your OB/Gyn who will most likely order some lab tests and refer you to a fertility specialist. As noted above, a sperm count and motility test will be done. Infertility is usually defined as the inability to become pregnant after 1 year of trying to get pregnant without any form of birth control. There are several causes of infertility. These include female and male factors.
My fiance and I are trying for a baby. I got off birth control over two months ago and so far no luck. I know it's way too soon to be jumping to conclusions but I've always had a fear that what if I could not reproduce. I am very young and there should be no problems for me. (I'm about 10 yrs... Source(s): infertile: https://shortly.im/AWQsF.
Getting tested is the only way to stop wondering and know for sure if you are infertile. By Amy Hoover. If you are wondering about your fertility and thinking to yourself, How do I know if I am infertile, you are not alone. But, before they get to that point, a barrage of testing is done to answer the question 'how do I know if I am infertile'. Reasons for infertility involve a myriad of factors, so be prepared to take a lot of tests. Often, you will get a recommendation for a fertility clinic and doctor from your general practitioner.
Infertility is a medical problem. Approximately 30% of infertility is due to female factor and 30% is due to male factor. In the balance of the cases, infertility results from problems in both partners or the cause of the infertility is unexplained. If you are over 35 and have been trying for 6 months, you should consult a physician. If you are over 30 and have a history of pelvic inflammatory disease, painful periods, miscarriage, irregular cycles, or if you know that your partner has a low sperm count, do not wait one year. Consult your ob/gyn.
most doctors don't think there is a fertility problem until you have been trying actively to get pregnant for over 2 years. (and not getting pregnant in that time) Ok, i understand that you don't want to wait 2 years and then see a doc. that's OK. I know it's way too soon to be jumping to conclusions but I've always had a fear that what if I could not reproduce. I am very young and there should be no problems for me. (I'm about 10 yrs... Source(s): infertile: https://shortly.im/AWQsF.
Ovulation is a normal part of the female reproductive cycle. Ovulation is the process during which an ovary releases an egg cell (or oocyte), which is then picked up by the feathery projections that lie at the end of the fallopian tube. This egg is then ready to be fertilized during the next 12-24 hours. I know it's way too soon to be jumping to conclusions but I've always had a fear that what if I could not reproduce. I am very young and there should be no problems for me. (I'm about 10 yrs... Source(s): infertile: https://shortly.im/AWQsF.