English name. In English, the name Lilian means-Variant of Lillian derived from the flower name Lily. Symbol of innocence; purity; beauty.. Other origins for the name Lilian include-English, American.The name Lilian is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Variant of Lillian derived from the flower name Lily. Symbol of innocence; purity; beauty. Origin-English. In English, the name Lilian means-Variant of Lillian derived from the flower name Lily. Symbol of innocence; purity; beauty.
Lillian is a very popular first name for females (#98 out of 4276, Top 2%) and a slightly less popular surname for all people (#78549 out of 150436, Top 52%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Lillian for girls. Lillian /lil-lian/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LIL-ee-an. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Lillian is  lily . Flower name.
Meaning of Lillian. English name. In English, the name Lillian means-blend of lily and ann.The name Lillian originated as an English name. The name Lillian is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-blend of lily and ann.
Liliana name is derived from the Latin name Lilia.In French this name can be used for both the Genders. Lillian is derived from the Middle English lilie, which is from the Old English and Latin lilium (lily). Alternatively, Lily is used as a pet from of both Lilian and Lilith. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Lillian is a baby girl name. The name Lillian comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Lillian is: Variant of Lillian derived from the flower name Lily. Symbol of innocence; purity; beauty. 
Latin Meaning: The name Lillian is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lillian is: Lily (after the flower). Pure. American Meaning: The name Lillian is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lillian is: Lily (after the flower). Pure. English Meaning: The name Lillian is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lillian is: derived from the flower name Lily. Symbol of innocence; purity; beauty.
Lillian (or Lilian) is a female given name. It is Latin, meaning ' Lily '. In French, Lilian (. [li.ljɑ̃]) is the male form of the name, while Liliane is the female form. 
Lilian /lil-ian/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Lilian's name origin is Latin, and the name Lilian means lily. Lilian is an alternate form of Lillian (Latin): Flower name. Lilian is also a form of Lily (Latin): Flower name via Old French. Kreatif forms: Lalian, Lolian.