Estradiol is produced especially within the follicles of the female ovaries, but also in other endocrine (i.e., hormone-producing) and non-endocrine tissues (e.g., including fat, liver, adrenal, breast, and neural tissues). Estradiol or oestradiol (American or British English usages), derives from estra- , Gk. οἶστρος (oistros, literally meaning verve or inspiration) and-diol, a chemical name and suffix indicating that this form of steroid and sex hormone is a type of alcohol bearing two hydroxyl groups.
Estradiol, or more precisely, 17β-estradiol, is a steroid and estrogen sex hormone, and the primary female sex hormone. It is named for and is important in the regulation of the estrous and menstrual female reproductive cycles. Estradiol or oestradiol (American or British English usages), derives from estra- , Gk. οἶστρος (oistros, literally meaning verve or inspiration) and-diol, a chemical name and suffix indicating that this form of steroid and sex hormone is a type of alcohol bearing two hydroxyl groups.
Estradiol is a type of estrogen, the major sex hormone in women. It is secreted by the ovarian follicles. As the follicles grow and develop each month, they produce estradiol. This sets the rest of the reproductive cycle in motion. It could also mean that the estradiol is suppressing FSH. Either of these things could mean that you will have more trouble getting pregnant, more trouble ovulating (even with treatment) and reduced success with IVF. In rare cases, high levels of estradiol could indicate an ovarian tumor or hyperthyroidism.
The noun ESTRADIOL has 1 sense: 1. the most powerful female hormone that occurs naturally; synthesized and used to treat estrogen deficiency and breast cancer. Familiarity information: ESTRADIOL used as a noun is very rare.
Estradiol is a female sex hormone produced by the ovaries, adrenal gland and also the placenta during pregnancy. Estradiol is the most important hormone during a female’s reproductive years, and is required for reproductive and sexual function as well as having an impact on the health of other organs and tissues. Estradiol is needed to maintain the eggs inside a female’s ovaries. During the menstrual cycle, follicles on the ovaries secrete estradiol, which triggers a series of events that lead to a surge in luteinizing hormone and, in turn, induces ovulation.
A blood test to check estradiol levels is one of the most common fertility tests. One reason to have your estradiol levels checked is to determine your ovaries’ ability to produce eggs (which is known as ovarian reserve). It can also help to determine if your follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) test was accurate or not. It could also mean that the estradiol is suppressing FSH. Either of these things could mean that you will have more trouble getting pregnant, more trouble ovulating (even with treatment) and reduced success with IVF. In rare cases, high levels of estradiol could indicate an ovarian tumor or hyperthyroidism.
This test measures the amount of estradiol (E2), the form of estrogen made mainly by the ovaries. E2 plays a key role in the female reproduction system. It's necessary for the development of the uterus, fallopian tubes, vagina, and breasts. 
If your FSH levels are normal but your estradiol levels are high, this indicates that the estradiol is artificially suppressing FSH levels. If you have already begun fertility treatment, your estradiol levels may be checked to see how the ovaries are responding to stimulation. It could also mean that the estradiol is suppressing FSH. Either of these things could mean that you will have more trouble getting pregnant, more trouble ovulating (even with treatment) and reduced success with IVF. In rare cases, high levels of estradiol could indicate an ovarian tumor or hyperthyroidism.
Estradiol is a form of estrogen, a female sex hormone that's produced by the ovaries. Estradiol comes in an oral form, a transdermal skin patch, a vaginal ring, or as a topical gel, spray, or emulsion. Estradiol is used to treat and prevent hot flushes in women experiencing menopause. Estradiol gel is also used to treat vaginal dryness, itching, and burning in menopausal women.