From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), also known as brittle bone disease or Lobstein syndrome, is a congenital bone disorder characterized by brittle bones that are prone to fracture. People with OI are born with defective connective tissue, or without the ability to make it, usually because of a deficiency of type I collagen. 
osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). Definitions: 1. a group of connective tissue disorders of type I collagen, characterized by bone fragility, fractures on trivial trauma, skeletal deformity, blue sclerae, ligament laxity, and hearing loss.
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a group of genetic disorders that mainly affect the bones. The term osteogenesis imperfecta means imperfect bone formation. People with this condition have bones that break easily, often from mild trauma or with no apparent cause. Most infants with more severe forms of osteogenesis imperfecta (such as type II and type III) have no history of the condition in their family. In these infants, the condition is caused by new (sporadic) mutations in the COL1A1 or COL1A2 gene.
Noun. 1. osteogenesis imperfecta-autosomal dominant disorder of connective tissue characterized by brittle bones that fracture easily. autosomal dominant disease, autosomal dominant disorder-a disease caused by a dominant mutant gene on an autosome. Translations. n osteogenesis osteogénesis. imperfecta 
Definition of OSTEOGENESIS IMPERFECTA. : a hereditary disease marked especially by extreme brittleness of bones and caused by defective or insufficient collagen. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, imperfect osteogenesis.
DefinitionOsteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder characterized by bones that break easily, often from little or no apparent cause. A classification system of different types of OI is commonly used to help describe how severely a person with OI is affected. 
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a group of genetic diseases of collagen in which the bones are formed improperly, making them fragile and prone to breaking. Collagen is a fibrous protein material. It serves as the structural foundation of skin, bone, cartilage, and ligaments. In osteogenesis imperfecta, the collagen produced is abnormal and disorganized. This results in a number of abnormalities throughout the body, the most notable being fragile, easily broken bones.
Medical Definition of OSTEOGENESIS IMPERFECTA. : a hereditary disease caused by defective or deficient collagen production and marked by extreme brittleness of the long bones and a bluish color of the whites of the eyes—called also fragilitas ossium, osteopsathyrosis. : a hereditary disease marked especially by extreme brittleness of bones and caused by defective or insufficient collagen. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, imperfect osteogenesis.
osteogenesis imperfecta, a genetic disorder involving defective development of the connective tissue. It is inherited as an autosomal-dominant trait and is characterized by abnormally brittle and fragile bones that are easily fractured by the slightest trauma. Collagen is a fibrous protein material. It serves as the structural foundation of skin, bone, cartilage, and ligaments. In osteogenesis imperfecta, the collagen produced is abnormal and disorganized. This results in a number of abnormalities throughout the body, the most notable being fragile, easily broken bones.
Osteogenesis imperfecta: A group of inherited connective tissue diseases, all of which result from mutations that affect collagen in connective tissue in the body, and all of which result in fragile bones. The best known types of osteogenesis imperfecta are types I and II. Also known as brittle bone disease. 