DEFINITION of 'Volatility'. 1. A statistical measure of the dispersion of returns for a given security or market index. Volatility can either be measured by using the standard deviation or variance between returns from that same security or market index. Commonly, the higher the volatility, the riskier the security.
Historical volatility is a measure of how much the underlying asset has been moving in the past. Implied volatility is a function of an option's price and is backed out from the price. Implied volatility shows the expectation of future volatility. Volatility is a one-standard-deviation annual figure.
Definition. A theoretical value designed to represent the volatility of the security underlying an option as determined by the price of the option.
The term implied volatility refers to an expectation of volatility in the underlying asset from the present till the options expiration, using current options pricing data as a basis.
In addition to known factors such as market price, interest rate, expiration date, and strike price, implied volatility is used in calculating an option's premium. IV can be derived from a model such as the Black Scholes Model.
Rate this implied volatility definition... The implied volatility of an asset is an estimate of volatility, or rate of price change, for the asset. In mathematical finance, volatility is defined as the annualized standard deviation of daily price changes.
In financial mathematics, the implied volatility of an option contract is that value of the volatility of the underlying instrument which, when input in an option pricing model (such as Black–Scholes) will return a theoretical value equal to the current market price of the option.
In general, implied volatility increases when the market is bearish, when investors believe that the asset's price will decline over time, and decreases when the market is bullish, when investors believe that the price will rise over time.
DEFINITION of 'Implied Volatility-IV'. Implied volatility is the estimated volatility of a security's price.