Place your steak into pan and time 30 seconds, then turn the steak. again time 30 seconds then turn it. Continue to turn steak every 30 seconds until you get rare medium or well done. once cooked let meat rest for 3 minutes. The idea behind turning every 30 seconds is the high heat will cook the meat but not overheat the entire steak to let any juice escape from the top.
You cook that steak any way you want and do not let ppl tell you that you might as well throw your money away if you want your steak well done. It's your steak and you eat it the way you want to. Some ppl don't like to hear 'moo' when they cut into their meat. Turn off one side of the grill and put the steak on that side. Turn the heat on the other side of the grill to LOW. Close the lid. Do not peek. Let the steak cook for about 15 minutes.
1 Rather than oiling the pan, brush the steak with oil to prevent it sticking. 2  Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 3  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. again time 30 seconds then turn it. Continue to turn steak every 30 seconds until you get rare medium or well done. once cooked let meat rest for 3 minutes. The idea behind turning every 30 seconds is the high heat will cook the meat but not overheat the entire steak to let any juice escape from the top.
A Well Done steak is the hardest to cook. The secret is to do it low and slow. It's the only way to prevent burning while fully cooking it through the middle. Grill this steak over a medium heat between 10 and 12 minutes per side. Most people will tell you that this is the steak for people who don't like steak. While there is some truth to that, it is a popular request so, any good griller needs to know how to do it.
1 Let your steak cook until it's done. 2  How long this takes depends on how thick the steak is and how well you want it to be done. 3  A one-inch (2.5-centimeter) thick steak will take about four minutes for rare steak and about 10 minutes for a well-done steak. 1 This will sear the steak and hold in the juices. 2  Press gently on the steak with the back of a tablespoon to keep it in contact with pan as much as possible. 3  Let your steak cook until it's done. 4
1 Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 2  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 3  Always use tongs to handle steak as they won't pierce the meat, allowing the juices to escape. again time 30 seconds then turn it. Continue to turn steak every 30 seconds until you get rare medium or well done. once cooked let meat rest for 3 minutes. The idea behind turning every 30 seconds is the high heat will cook the meat but not overheat the entire steak to let any juice escape from the top.
Best Answer: First brown the steak on both sides on med-high to high with a small amount of oil. If an oven is available, after turning the steak place the pan in a pre-heated oven at 350-375 degrees for approx. 15-20 minutes or until desired temperature. 
If so, sear the steak on each side on high heat. Turn off one side of the grill and put the steak on that side. Turn the heat on the other side of the grill to LOW. Close the lid. Do not peek. Let the steak cook for about 15 minutes. If you are in very cold weather, turn the burner on MEDIUM rather than LOW
1 How long this takes depends on how thick the steak is and how well you want it to be done. 2  A one-inch (2.5-centimeter) thick steak will take about four minutes for rare steak and about 10 minutes for a well-done steak. 3  Half way through the cooking time, turn the steak over in the pan [source: Delia Smith ]. 1 This will sear the steak and hold in the juices. 2  Press gently on the steak with the back of a tablespoon to keep it in contact with pan as much as possible. 3  Let your steak cook until it's done. 4 
We cook a New York 1 inch thick steak on a charcoal grill for 20 minutes. We only flip once at about 15 minutes. That gives you a medium well steak. It will vary depending on the thickness of the steak and the temperature of your grill or frying pan. Here's how restaurant chefs decide sear the steak lightly on both sides to brown. A normal steak cut is about 3/4 of an inch thick and on average, the cooking temp on a grill … is 300-350of. With these, an average of about 8 minutes per side will leave a bit of red in the center. To be safe, check it a bit early by cutting a small slice in the middle of the steak.