One common use for saffron tea is as a body cleanser. As was mentioned, it has elements that remove toxins from the blood and help improve the overall health of the body. The tea also works with the digestive system to eliminate excess waste and make the digestive system more efficient and creating and removing waste. Sugar, honey, or lemon can be added for taste if desired. Saffron tea can also be chilled and enjoyed as an iced tea if desired as well. Women who are pregnant are advised to not drink this tea. Consult with a physician prior to drinking saffron tea if you are currently pregnant, nursing, or prescribed to medications.
Saffron Tea. Buy Now. Saffron tea is an herbal infusion prepared from the delicate thread-like saffron, the spice often used in cooking. The brewed tea with its yellow or reddish-orange hue and a naturally strong flavor is consumed for its therapeutic properties. Saffron tea benefits: what is it good for. According to clinical trials, the antidepressant property in saffron tea helps to relieve the symptoms of mild or moderate depression.
Benefits of Saffron. Saffron tea has been documented as a powerful herbal supplement for hundreds of years. There are unique constituents that are found in saffron tea which account for its unique taste and advantages. If you’re feeling down, a cup of saffron tea may do you well. 
Saffron is POSSIBLY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth as a medicine for up to 6 weeks. Some possible side effects include dry mouth, anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, change in appetite, and headache. Allergic reactions can occur in some people. Taking large amounts of saffron by mouth is POSSIBLY UNSAFE. Saffron is a plant. The dried stigmas (thread-like parts of the flower) are used to make saffron spice. It can take 75,000 saffron blossoms to produce a single pound of saffron spice. Saffron is largely cultivated and harvested by hand
Yellow saffron tea gets its name because of the yellow color it has when brewed. In reality, saffron tea is made from red-orange-colored saffron threads, the same ones you use for cooking. One of the most expensive spices on the market, saffron has a host of health benefits as well as a naturally rich taste and delicate aroma that are imparted to the brewed tea. You can purchase yellow saffron teabags or make tea from loose saffron threads. Because saffron is expensive, teabags may not contain the best quality or as much saffron.
Medicinal Uses of Saffron. • 1  Regular consumption of saffron tea is good for heart. 2  To prepare this tea, steep three strands of saffron stigma in a cup of hot water for about 20 minutes. 3  Enhance the taste as well as health benefits of saffron tea by adding other spices like cinnamon in it. The saffron that we use is actually the stigma or style of the Saffron Crocus flower. Saffron benefits health in numerous ways but it is an expensive spice because each saffron flower produces only about three stigmas. Thus, almost 14,000 flowers are required to produce merely an ounce of saffron spice.
Promote Health and Wellness with Saffron Tea. There is a very good chance that if you are an avid tea drinker you have either heard of saffron or you drink saffron tea yourself. The saffron plant that this tea is derived from most commonly grows in Spain, India, Greece, and China. Sugar, honey, or lemon can be added for taste if desired. Saffron tea can also be chilled and enjoyed as an iced tea if desired as well. Women who are pregnant are advised to not drink this tea. Consult with a physician prior to drinking saffron tea if you are currently pregnant, nursing, or prescribed to medications.
Saffron tea contains antioxidants that reduce the risk of developing heart disease. It reduces cholesterol and regulates blood pressure. Plus, saffron has anti-cancer qualities as it includes a compound called crocin which inhibits the growth of human cancer cells. The saffron that we use is actually the stigma or style of the Saffron Crocus flower. Saffron benefits health in numerous ways but it is an expensive spice because each saffron flower produces only about three stigmas. Thus, almost 14,000 flowers are required to produce merely an ounce of saffron spice.
Saffron tea is an herbal infusion prepared from the delicate thread-like saffron, the spice often used in cooking. Saffron tea benefits: what is it good for. According to clinical trials, the antidepressant property in saffron tea helps to relieve the symptoms of mild or moderate depression.