Iron is a chemical element with symbol Fe (from Latin: ferrum) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series. It is by mass the most common element on Earth, forming much of Earth's outer and inner core. It is the fourth most common element in the Earth's crust. The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities, in particular carbon, from the smelting process. A certain proportion of carbon (between 0.002% and 2.1%) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
The body-centered cubic structure of iron, which is called ferrite, is stable at (i) a temperature of 1,665K (1,392) or above and (ii) at 1,184K (911) or below, the crystal forms being referred to as iron and a iron, respectively. Particularly important lattice defects are (i) vacancies, which are point-like defects in which an iron atom is missing at a lattice point, and (ii) dislocations, which are linear defects. Vacancies play an important role in the diffusion of atoms, and plastic deformation occurs when dislocations move.
Iron is a relatively abundant element in the universe. It is found in the sun and many types of stars in considerable quantity. Iron nuclei are very stable. Iron is a vital constituent of plant and animal life, and is the key component of haemoglobin. The pure metal is not often encountered in commerce, but is usually alloyed with carbon or other metals.
Like other group 8 elements, iron exists in a wide range of oxidation states, −2 to +6, although +2 and +3 are the most common. Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen environments, but is reactive to oxygen and water. The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities, in particular carbon, from the smelting process. A certain proportion of carbon (between 0.002% and 2.1%) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
The face-centered cubic structure, which is called austenite, is stable in a temperature range everywhere between the above-mentioned two temperature ranges, and the iron of this structure in this temperature range is called iron. Particularly important lattice defects are (i) vacancies, which are point-like defects in which an iron atom is missing at a lattice point, and (ii) dislocations, which are linear defects. Vacancies play an important role in the diffusion of atoms, and plastic deformation occurs when dislocations move.
Iron atoms arrange themselves regularly in one crystal, and the direction of the arrangement of atoms differs among grains. The diameter of an iron atom is 0.25 nanometers, while that of a grain is usually 10 to 20 m. Iron atoms arrange themselves in one of two stable crystal structures called the body-centered cubic structure and the face-centered cubic structure. Particularly important lattice defects are (i) vacancies, which are point-like defects in which an iron atom is missing at a lattice point, and (ii) dislocations, which are linear defects. Vacancies play an important role in the diffusion of atoms, and plastic deformation occurs when dislocations move.
At room temperature, iron is in the form of ferrite, or α-iron, a body-centered cubic structure. The density of α-iron is 7.86 g/cc. At 910°C it changes to γ-iron, which is face-centered cubic and somewhat softer. At 1535°C iron melts, and boils at 3000°C. Half of the ferric iron is on the tetrahedral interstices of the spinel structure, the other half of the ferric iron and all the ferrous iron in the octahedral interstices. The moments of the ferric iron, 5 μ B, cancel, leaving the 4 μ B of the ferrous ions.
The statements below refer to the diagram of the structure of iron. The diagram shows part of a slice through thethree dimensional structure.Please read each statement carefully, and decide whether it is correct or not. TRUE: the iron structure contains iron cations surrounded by the fast moving electrons thatwould be in outer shells of separate iron atoms. (Sometimes this is called a ‘sea of electrons’.) 11. An iron atom will reflect light, and so freshly polished iron shines.
The structure of iron is an example of a giant molecule. FALSE. In iron the positive ions are packed together in a giant lattice but we use the word molecule to imply that the structure contains covalent bonds which iron does not. In the structure of iron there are positive ions. TRUE. For a series of statements about the bonding in iron, students decide whether they are true or false. This leads to further thinking and discussion about the bonding in metals. This activity checks on the misconceptions that: 1  the structure of iron is an example of a giant molecule. 2  the atoms of iron are held together by ionic bonds. 3  iron conducts electricity because iron atoms move through the solid. 4  iron expands when heated because the atoms get bigger