MS Word is a word processor. MS Excel is a spreadsheet. They are two different types of applications. They are both software packages. Microsoft Word is a Word Processor pr … ogramme for TYPING letters, documents etc. Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet programme. The concept is document processing is a method of converting a handwritten or typed up document into an electronic document by scanning or photocopying.
1 Document processing system. 2  Document processing system. 3  Document processor. 4  Document processor. 5  Document processor. 6  Document processor. 7  document produced as evidence. 1 Document processing system. 2  Document processing system. 3  Document processing system. 4  Document processor. 5  Document processor. 6  Document processor. 7  Document processor. 8  document produced as evidence.
Pages for Mac is a powerful word processor that gives you everything you need to create documents that look beautiful. And read beautifully. Redesigned for OS X Yosemite, it lets you work seamlessly between Mac and iOS devices. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A document processor is a computer application that superficially resembles a word processor —but emphasizes the visual layout of the document's components, above creation and formatting of text. Document processor tools are not just typical document elements—paragraphs, lists, headers, etc. The primary attraction of a document processor is the ability to program documents with strong layout controls and powerful conditional automatic formatting rules that create structured documents.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A document processor handles incoming documents and data entry to keep operations running smoothly. Financial institutions, law firms, insurance companies, and health care providers, use document processors, among others. Document processors file original documents into the company’s filing system and make sure digital copies include notes about the physical location of the original. A document processor handles incoming documents and data entry to keep operations running smoothly. View slideshow of images above.
Using a computer to create, edit, and print documents. Of all computer applications, word processing is the most common. To perform word processing, you need a computer, a special program called a word processor, and a printer. The great advantage of word processing over using a typewriter is that you can make changes without retyping the entire document. If you make a typing mistake, you simply back up the cursor and correct your mistake.
Document Processing. Documents serve to archive and communicate information. Document processing is the activity of operating on information captured in some form of persistent medium. Traditionally, that medium is paper, and documents are bundles of paper with information captured in print or in writing. Document processing may serve to coordinate and conduct business transactions. The web has become a marketplace for business. E-commerce is a major application of document processing on the World Wide Web. A company may publish a document on a web server to advertise itself and attract customers. Viewers of the document may then interact with it to go to other documents to seek mor
You want to type a document at your computer keyboard, and have it appear in nicely printed form at your computer's printer. Naturally you don't want this to happen in real time (the material appearing at the printer as you type). You want to type the document first and save it in digital form on some storage medium. 1 The binary coding used by word processors is a quite different animal, so inter-conversion between TeX and word processor formats is not easy. In addition, since TeX is a superior typesetting engine, it is in principle impossible to convert a TeX document to, say, Word without loss of information.