Applications of radiography include medical radiography and industrial radiography: if the object being examined is living, whether human or animal, it is regarded as medical; all other radiography is regarded as industrial radiographic work or Industrial computed tomography. Nuclear medicine typically involves gamma rays. The types of electromagnetic radiation of most interest to radiography are X-ray and gamma radiation. This radiation is much more energetic than the more familiar types such as radio waves and visible light.
Pr. Mirjan M. Nadrljanski et al. Computed tomography (CT) scanning, also known as computerized axial tomography (CAT) scanning, is a diagnostic imaging procedure that uses X-rays in order to present cross-sectional images (slices) of the body. In the specific case of the CT, the emitter of X-rays rotates around the patient and the detector, placed in diametrically opposite side, picks up the image of a body section (beam and detector move in synchrony). Unlike X-ray radiography, the detectors of the CT scanner does not produce an image.
Welcome to the Division of Radiography and Medical Imaging. Radiography is an art and science which involves the medical imaging of patients to produce a radiograph for the diagnosis of disease. 
Plain radiography was the only imaging modality available during the first 50 years of radiology. Due to its availability, speed, and lower costs compared to other modalities, radiography is often the first-line test of choice in radiologic diagnosis. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist. Depending on location, the diagnostic radiologist, or reporting radiographer, then interprets or reads the images and produces a report of their findings and impression or
Computed Tomography (CT). Although also based on the variable absorption of x rays by different tissues, computed tomography (CT) imaging, also known as CAT scanning (Computerized Axial Tomography), provides a different form of imaging known as cross-sectional imaging. 1 A motorized table moves the patient (Figure 3) through a circular opening in the CT imaging system. 2  As the patient passes through the CT imaging system, a source of x rays rotates around the inside of the circular opening.
(October 2014). Radiography is an imaging technique that uses electromagnetic radiation other than visible light, especially X-rays, to view the internal structure of a non-uniformly composed and opaque object (i.e. a non-transparent object of varying density and composition) such as the human body. Nuclear medicine typically involves gamma rays. The types of electromagnetic radiation of most interest to radiography are X-ray and gamma radiation. This radiation is much more energetic than the more familiar types such as radio waves and visible light.
All x-ray imaging is based on the absorption of x rays as they pass through the different parts of a patient's body. Depending on the amount absorbed in a particular tissue such as muscle or lung, a different amount of x rays will pass through and exit the body. 1 A motorized table moves the patient (Figure 3) through a circular opening in the CT imaging system. 2  As the patient passes through the CT imaging system, a source of x rays rotates around the inside of the circular opening.
Radiologists use a variety of imaging techniques such as X-ray radiography, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine including positron emission tomography (PET), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to diagnose and/or treat diseases. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist. Depending on location, the diagnostic radiologist, or reporting radiographer, then interprets or reads the images and produces a report of their findings and impression or diagnosis.
Radiology is a medical specialty that uses imaging to diagnose and treat diseases seen within the body. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist. Depending on location, the diagnostic radiologist, or reporting radiographer, then interprets or reads the images and produces a report of their findings and impression or diagnosis.
1 1 Introduction to Digital Radiography [CR/DR], Computed Tomography [CT], and Magnetic Resonance Imaging [MRI] Daniel A. Feeney DVM, MSProfessor of Veterinary RadiologyCollege of Veterinary MedicineUniversity of Minnesota 2 What Is Digital Radiography? 