Delicious and crunchy, apple fruit is one of the most popular and favorite fruits among the health conscious, fitness lovers who firmly believe in the concept of “health is wealth.” This wonderful fruit is packed with rich phyto-nutrients that, in the true sense, indispensable for optimal health.
Description. Apples are a crisp, white-fleshed fruit with a red, yellow or green skin. The apple is actually a member of the Rose family, which may seem strange until we remember that roses make rose hips, which are fruits similar to the apple.
1 The phytonutrients in apples can help you regulate your blood sugar. 2  Recent research has shown that apple polyphenols can help prevent spikes in blood sugar through a variety of mechanisms. 3  Flavonoids like quercetin found in apples can inhibit enzymes like alpha-amylase and alpha-glucosidase.
Introduction of Apples. Apple-king of all fruits have long been associated with the biblical story of Adam and Eve. Between the Caspin and the Black Sea, the fruit was originated in the Middle East just about 4000 years ago! It is one of the most favorite and popular fruits ever known.
Further, apple fruit is a good source of B-complex vitamins such as riboflavin, thiamin, and pyridoxine (vitamin B-6). Together, these vitamins help as co-factors for enzymes in metabolism as well as in various synthetic functions inside the human body.
Apples are rich in antioxidant phyto-nutrients flavonoids and polyphenolics. The total measured anti-oxidant strength (ORAC value) of 100 g apple fruit is 5900 TE. Some of the important flavonoids in apples are quercetin, epicatechin, and procyanidin B2.
The apple tree (Malus domestica) is a deciduous tree in the rose family best known for its sweet, pomaceous fruit, the apple. It is cultivated worldwide as a fruit tree, and is the most widely grown species in the genus Malus.
Kaempferol and myricetin are also important apple flavonols. Chlorogenic acid is apple's primary phenolic acid, and it's found throughout the pulp and also in the skin. If apples are red, it's because of their anthocyanins, which are largely restricted to the skin.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: Apple is a prominent hardware and software company best known for its series of personal computers, the iPod and its innovative marketing strategies for its products.