The type of RNA that copies DNA is known as the messenger RNA or mRNA. There are other types of RNA these include the transfer RNA (tRNA), and the ribosomal (rRNA). 1 There are two main types of nucleic acids, which are DNA and RNA. 2  Both consist of long chains of repeating…. 3  Transcription: Decoding the Mystery Transcription is the name given for the process of the chemical synthesis of RNA from DNA. 4  In other terms, the DNA is being transcribed to make RNA
Best Answer: pentose sugars: ribose and deoxyribose. and either a purine (G or A) or Pyrimidine (C, T:in DNA, or U:in RNA). Also the phosphate groups. G A C T and U are all nitrogenous bases. Source(s): G: guanine A: adenine C:cytosine T: thymine U: uracil. Nucleotides and deoxynucleotides are the building blocks that comprise the DNA and RNA polymers. Nucleotides are made up of ribose or deoxyribose sugars, a nitrogenous base, and one or more phosphate groups. Yaybob · 8 years ago.
Nucleic Acids. RNA. DNA. Monomers and Polymers-monomers are building blocks, many times of the same type, that join together to form larger structures (polymers) which have properties that are more than just a collection of monomers. A good analogy is that of bricks to a building.
Best Answer: It's a nucleic acid, made up of monomers called nucleotides. A nucleotide consists of three parts: a) A sugar-deoxyribose (ribose in RNA) b) An organic base-adenine, cytosine, guanine and thymine (in DNA. In RNA, there is uracil instead of thymine) c) A phosphate group I hope that helps. :) ILoveMaths07
A macromolecule is a very large molecule commonly created by polymerization of smaller subunits (monomers). They are typically composed of thousands or more atoms. For example,a single polymeric molecule is appropriately described as a macromolecule or polymer molecule rather than a polymer, which suggests a substance composed of macromolecules. Because of their size, macromolecules are not conveniently described in terms of stoichiometry alone.
Nucleic acids are polymers of nucleotides, complex monomers consisting of a pentose (five carbon sugar) covalently bonded to a phosphate group and to one of five different kinds of nitrogenous bases. DNA and RNA are the only two nucleic acids found in living matter. Four main types of organic molecules predominate in living organisms: 1  carbohydrates (polymers of simple sugars). 2  Carbohydrate Review. 3  lipids (fatty acids linked by glycerol). 4  Lipid Review. 5  polypeptides (made of amino acids). 6  Protein Review. 7  nucleic acids (DNA or RNA-polymers of nucleotides).
Nucleic Acids are biopolymers, or large biomolecules, essential for all known forms of life. Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides. Nucleic acids are among the most important biological macromolecules (others being amino acids/proteins, sugars/carbohydrates, and lipids/fats).