Kittens are usually weaned at about 6 to 8 weeks and by three months (12 weeks) the mother will leave them on their own. Many, if not all, good cat breeders strongly advise t … hat you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 12-14 weeks of age. Kittens that leave their mother this young can become very sick and even die. Not to scare anyone but even though kittens can be VERY CUTE at 6 weeks don't take one home that young! You will be much happier to have a healthy silly kitten that's a little older, than a sick, helpless newborn.
Answer by Mediatech. Confidence votes 36.4K. Kittens are usually weaned at about 6 to 8 weeks and by three months (12 weeks) the mother will leave them on their own. Many, if not all, good cat breeders strongly advise that you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 12-14 weeks of age. Answer: 6 weeks is a good age for them to be weaned and start a life independent of their mom. Answer: Taking a kitten away at six weeks is far too early. Many, if not al … l, cat breeders strongly advise that you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 10-12 weeks of age.
We will not just tell you what this age is; we will provide explanations of kitten development to prove it to you. In standard conditions, a kitten can leave its mother at 12 weeks of age; it should never leave its mother before it is 8 weeks old. So, from the nursing point of view, 10 weeks of age, or when the kitten has been weaned, is the safest time for a kitten to leave its mother. If the kitten is still nursing at 12 weeks, something is wrong with the breeder’s strategy
Three-week-old kittens cannot retract their claws, and kittens are not steady on their feet until they are around 4 weeks old. At 6 weeks of age, a marvelous transformation begins to take place. The kittens begin to run, jump, and climb. This is when the mother cat teaches them many important lessons. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. If you start with a healthy kitten, you're more likely to avoid health problems later on. While there's no substitute for a good veterinary exam, here are a few things to help you assess the health of a kitten: Age-Kittens are ready to leave their mothers at around 10-12 weeks of age. Most good breeders won't let kittens go unless they are 12 weeks because they still have a lot of things to learn from their mother. They learn how to behave and use the litter box at that time. Don't let them go until AT LEAST 8 weeks.
1 The socialization period of kittens normally lasts until 8 weeks of age, which is one reason why 8 weeks is the earliest a kitten can leave its mother. 2  The mother queen’s nursing of her kittens should not end abruptly; weaning can be done safely at around 8 to 10 weeks of age. So, from the nursing point of view, 10 weeks of age, or when the kitten has been weaned, is the safest time for a kitten to leave its mother. If the kitten is still nursing at 12 weeks, something is wrong with the breeder’s strategy
At about eight weeks of age, kittens are ready to leave the mother. Until kittens are a year old, give them as much as they want to eat. Unlike puppies, most kittens are unlikely to overeat, and they won't get the bone and joint problems that fat puppies can develop. For the first few weeks of their lives, kittens feed only on their mother's milk, but by about four weeks of age, they start to eat her food. At this time, you can begin to wean them, gradually. Feed them a cat milk substitute or moist kitten food in a shallow dish.
Answer: 6 weeks is a good age for them to be weaned and start a life independent of their mom. Answer: Taking a kitten away at six weeks is far too early. Many, if not al … l, cat breeders strongly advise that you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 10-12 weeks of age. Kittens that leave their mother this young can become very sick and even die. Not to scare anyone but even though kittens can be VERY CUTE at 6 weeks don't take one home that young! You will be much happier to have a healthy silly kitten that's a little older, than a sick, helpless newborn.