The government of the United States of America is the federal government of the republic of fifty states that constitute the United States, as well as one capital district, and several other territories. The Vice President is the second-highest executive official in rank of the government. As first in the U.S. presidential line of succession, the Vice President becomes President upon the death, resignation, or removal of the President, which has happened nine times in U.S. history.
The United States of America is a republic. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules. This is often without regard for the rights of the  minority.    For example
The United States of America is a republic. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules.
The full name of the republic is United States of America. No other name appears in the Constitution, and this is the name that appears on money, in treaties, and in legal cases to which it is a party (e.g. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively. The Vice President is the second-highest executive official in rank of the government. As first in the U.S. presidential line of succession, the Vice President becomes President upon the death, resignation, or removal of the President, which has happened nine times in U.S. history.
The United States officially operates under a federal constitutional presidential democratic republic form of government.The United States is a federal republic and a representative democracy. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules.
The U.S. Constitution is the supreme law of the land in the United States. It creates a federal system of government in which power is shared between the federal government and the state governments. 
The government was formed in 1789, making the United States one of the world's first, if not the first, modern national constitutional republics. The United States government is based on the principle of federalism, in which power is shared between the federal government and state governments. The Vice President is the second-highest executive official in rank of the government. As first in the U.S. presidential line of succession, the Vice President becomes President upon the death, resignation, or removal of the President, which has happened nine times in U.S. history.
Democracy. The United States has had the same type of government for more than 200 years. It’s called a “representative democracy.” Among the nations of the world, it is unusual for a system of government to last so long. 
The United States is a federal constitutional republic, in which the President of the United States (the head of state and head of government), Congress, and judiciary share powers reserved to the national government, and the federal government shares sovereignty with the state governments. 
According to the CIA World Factbook the United States of America's government type is a Constitution-based federal republic with a strong democratic tradition. Broken down further... Constitution-based: The Constitution of the United States of America acts as the highest and supreme law of the Union. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules.