Muscle performance is closely related to the architecture and dimensions of the muscle–tendon unit and the effect of maturation on these architectural characteristics in humans is currently unknown. 2001). As a result of these changes in muscle size and architecture it is possible that the fascicle: tendon length ratio, as well as the PCSA of the muscle, will change with maturation. Moreover, if the intra-muscular architecture variation (Blazevich et al.
Stretching and its effect on the muscle-tendon-unit. Stretching is a commonly used tool in pre-match preparation as well as in rehabilitation. There are different stretching techniques, which might benefit one or the other purpose. As a result, the following paragraphs will focus on a) is it possible to stretch individual parts of the muscle-tendon unit, b) if so, what are the effects on each part, c) are there result differences between various types of stretches and finally d) how to use these information in a football setting.
1. The proximal hamstring muscle–tendon–bone unit is the most frequently injured muscle in athletes [1] , [2] and [3] , which typically presents with a sudden excruciating pain along the posterior thigh, resulting in the need for immediate cessation of athletic activity. In children, the weakest link in the muscle–tendon–bone unit is at the apophyseal attachment of the muscle, for example the ischial tuberosity (Fig. 5). Therefore, injury tends to occur in the form of an apophyseal avulsion (Fig. 6 and Fig. 7).
Introduction. The proximal hamstring muscle–tendon–bone unit is the most frequently injured muscle in athletes [1] , [2] and [3] , which typically presents with a sudden excruciating pain along the posterior thigh, resulting in the need for immediate cessation of athletic activity. In children, the weakest link in the muscle–tendon–bone unit is at the apophyseal attachment of the muscle, for example the ischial tuberosity (Fig. 5). Therefore, injury tends to occur in the form of an apophyseal avulsion (Fig. 6 and Fig. 7).
There are two key properties of tendons of relevance to the performance of the muscle-tendon complex (MTC): stiffness and hysteresis. Both can be altered with training. Tendon ‘stiffness’ has nothing to do with our understanding of the word when we talk about flexibility, or range of motion. Crucially, the muscles and tendons interact, with the elastic properties of the tendons contributing both to the type and quality of movement. In almost all movements, when the muscle contracts, the tendon will lengthen before it shortens, independent of any change in muscle length.
How strength training targets tendons. Having established that the muscle tendon unit has two separate components that contribute to force production, the key question for athletes and coaches is how to improve the tendon’s elastic energy release as well as the strength of the muscles. It is possible for a muscle tendon unit to have good ‘range of motion’ and good ‘stiffness’ at the same time. The take-home message for coaches and athletes is that they need to consider the effects of a training programme on the whole MTU, and how that will impact on performance.
Raphael Brandon explains how rehab specialists can exploit our emerging knowledge of tendon properties. The properties and behaviour of the muscle-tendon complex (MTC) is a relatively new focus for sports science research, but it is attracting a lot of interest. Crucially, the muscles and tendons interact, with the elastic properties of the tendons contributing both to the type and quality of movement. In almost all movements, when the muscle contracts, the tendon will lengthen before it shortens, independent of any change in muscle length.
Research shows that the passive tension (or stiffness) of a stretched muscle-tendon unit was reduced after stretching (10), showing the positive effect of stretching, even without impairing the force and speed capacities of the muscle (10). As a result, the following paragraphs will focus on a) is it possible to stretch individual parts of the muscle-tendon unit, b) if so, what are the effects on each part, c) are there result differences between various types of stretches and finally d) how to use these information in a football setting.