The DNA helix consists of two complementary DNA strands. Therefore, each of the two strands serves as a template for the construction of the other strand. Under normal conditions the DNA is packed into a compact structure called chromatin. To be able to replicate, the cell has to unfold and unwind the DNA, and also has to separate the two strands from each other. The cell has a complex machinery to perform these tasks. When it is time to replicate, special initiator proteins attach to the DNA at regions called replication origins
During separation, the two strands of the DNA double helix uncoil at a specific location called the origin. Several enzymes and proteins then work together to prepare, or prime, the strands for duplication. Finally, a special enzyme called DNA polymerase organizes the assembly of the new DNA strands. This strand contains nucleotides that are complementary to those in the template sequence. Base pairing ensures that the sequence of nucleotides in the existing template strand is exactly matched to a complementary sequence in the new strand, also known as the anti-sequence of the template strand.
DNA replication is one of the most basic processes that occurs within a cell. Each time a cell divides, the two resulting daughter cells must contain exactly the same genetic information, or DNA, as the parent cell. To accomplish this, each strand of existing DNA acts as a template for replication. Replication occurs in three major steps: the opening of the double helix and separation of the DNA strands, the priming of the template strand, and the assembly of the new DNA segment. This strand contains nucleotides that are complementary to those in the template sequence. Base pairing ensures that the sequence of nucleotides in the existing template strand is exactly matched to a complementary sequence in the new strand, also known as the anti-sequence of the template strand.
Once the two strands are separated a small piece of RNA, called an RNA primer, is attached to the DNA by an enzyme called DNA primase. These primers are the beginnings of all new DNA chains since the enzyme responsible for the copying of the DNA, DNA polymerase, can not start from scratch. Under normal conditions the DNA is packed into a compact structure called chromatin. To be able to replicate, the cell has to unfold and unwind the DNA, and also has to separate the two strands from each other. The cell has a complex machinery to perform these tasks.
If the two strands of a DNA molecule are separated, each can be used as a pattern or template to produce a complementary strand. Each template and its new complement together then form a new DNA double helix, identical to the original. Before a cell divides, its DNA is replicated (duplicated.) Because the two strands of a DNA molecule have complementary base pairs, the nucleotide sequence of each strand automatically supplies the information needed to produce its partner.
NEW STRAND SYNTHESIS. Now that they are separated, the two single DNA strands can act as templates for the production of two new, complementary DNA strands. Remember that the double helix consists of two antiparallel DNA strands with complementary 5’ to 3’ strands running in opposite directions. The point where the DNA is separated into single strands, and where new DNA will be synthesized, is known as the replication fork. Single-strand binding proteins, or SSBs, quickly coat the newly exposed single strands. SSBs maintain the separated strands during DNA replication.
Before a cell divides, its DNA is replicated (duplicated.) Because the two strands of a DNA molecule have complementary base pairs, the nucleotide sequence of each strand automatically supplies the information needed to produce its partner. 