How to Grow a Quince Tree. Quince trees are hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture zones 5 through 9. Growing quince trees isn’t that difficult as long as you can provide appropriate conditions. Choose a sunny location with fertile soil. Quinces adapt to wet or dry soils but perform best when the soil is well-drained. The fruit on a flowering quince is edible, but the fruit on a flowering or Japanese quince is extremely tart. Advertisement. While you can use them to make jams and jellies, you’ll get much better results from a quince that was bred to produce fruit.
Full Definition of QUINCE. 1. : the fruit of a central Asian tree (Cydonia oblonga) of the rose family that resembles a hard-fleshed yellow apple and is used especially in preserves. 2. : a tree that bears quinces — compare Japanese quince. Definition of QUINCE for Kids. : a hard sour yellow fruit that resembles an apple, grows on a shrubby Asian tree, and is used especially in jams and jellies.
Quince-Cydonia oblonga Mill. The quince (/ˈkwɪns/ ; Cydonia oblonga) is the sole member of the genus Cydonia in the family Rosaceae (which also contains apples and pears, among other fruits). It is a small deciduous tree that bears a pome fruit, similar in appearance to a pear, and bright golden-yellow when mature. 1 This usage is likened to the rather bitter aftertaste of a quince fruit inside the mouth. 2  When a baby is born in the Balkans, a quince tree is planted as a symbol of fertility, love and life. 3  Ancient Greek poets (Ibycus, Aristophanes, e.g.) used quinces (kydonia) as a mildly ribald term for teenage breasts.
The quince is a hard, yellow, fragrant fruit that looks like a cross between an apple and a pear. Native to southwest Asia, it is now grown throughout the world, including Europe and North America, though in the United States, it grows primarily in New England and the Mid-Atlantic region. 
Quince resembles a pear and has a yellowish hard exterior when ripened. Quince turns a a deep red when cooked and is often used to make jams and jellies. Quince were first cultivated in the Middle East. Germany uses quince to make a fruit juice that blends well with other sweet juices. Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A quince is a fruit resembling a pear that was first cultivated in the Middle East. In fact, the proverbial apple offered to Adam by Eve may actually be more accurately translated as a quince.
Quince trees were a significant presence in the gardens of middle-class colonial Americans. Cooked quince fruit provided pectin for their preserves and an ingredient for pies, candy and juice. As pears and apples eaten straight from the tree gained favor, quince trees began disappearing from the American landscape. Cooked quince fruits are excellent sources of pectin. Several botanical species and their hybrids claim the common name of quinces. Only one of them, however, is known commonly as the quince tree or fruiting quince (Cydonia oblonga). Although they also grow as multistemmed bushes, thornless branches distinguish quince trees from flowering quince shrubs (Chaenomeles japonica, Chaenomeles sinensis)
1 Place cut quince into a bowl of water: As you finish with each quince quarter, place in a large bowl of water to prevent browning. 2  Make the poaching liquid and a dd any flavorings: Mix together 4 cups water, 1/2 cup sugar, and 1/4 cup honey in a 3-quart (or larger) saucepan. 
Once the quince is cooked, it's soft and tender, usually with a really lovely syrup from the cooking process. You eat the fruit straight like this, or pour it over yogurt, or bake it into a tart. You can make a sweet, spicy paste out of it (known as membrillo in Spain) that is magnificent with cheese. The Challenges of Quince. Quince is an ancient fruit, found in Roman cooking and grown across Turkey and southeast Asia. It grows on small trees and is closely related to apples and pears, but it lacks their immediate edibility and appeal.