THE MAYFLOWER COMPACT (1620). In the name of God, Amen. We whose names are underwritten, the loyal subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord King James, by the Grace of God of Great Britain, France and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith, etc. the mayflower compact was significant because this was the first governing document of plymouth colony. This signified not a constitution; but an agreement to form a crude gov … ernment, and to submit the will of the majority under the regulations agreed upon.
Mayflower Compact. Mayflower Compact, in U.S. colonial history, an agreement providing for the temporary government of Plymouth Colony. The compact was signed (1620) on board the Mayflower by the adult male passengers; it created the first American settlement that was based upon a social contract. In it, the colonists combined together in a civil Body Politick whose purpose was to frame just and equal laws for the general good of the c
The Mayflower Compact. The Mayflower Compact was signed on 11 November 1620 onboard the Mayflower shortly after she came to anchor off Provincetown Harbor. The Pilgrims had obtained permission from English authorities to settle in Virginia, whose northern border at the time extended up to what is now New York
The Mayflower Compact was the first governing document of Plymouth Colony. It was written by separatist Congregationalists who called themselves Saints. Later they were referred to as Pilgrims or Pilgrim Fathers. They were fleeing from religious persecution by King James of England. The Mayflower was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in what is now Massachusetts.
Mayflower Compact. The Mayflower Compact was the first governing document of Plymouth Colony. It was written by the Separatists, also known as the Saints, fleeing from religious persecution by King James of Great Britain.
The Mayflower Compact is a written agreement composed by a consensus of the new Settlers arriving at New Plymouth in November of 1620. They had traveled across the ocean on the ship Mayflower which was anchored in what is now Provincetown Harbor near Cape Cod, Massachusetts. All 41 of the adult male members on the Mayflower signed the Compact. Being the first written laws for the new land, the Compact determined authority within the settlement and was the observed as such until 1691.
The Mayflower Compact was signed aboard ship on November 11, 1620 by the Pilgrims. The Mayflower was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in what is now Massachusetts.
A+E Networks. The Mayflower Compact, signed by 41 English colonists on the ship Mayflower on November 11, 1620, was the first written framework of government established in what is now the United States. 
Reasons for the Compact. The Mayflower was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in what is now Massachusetts.
The Mayflower Compact (1620) was the first case of colonial self-government in America. The Mayflower Compact was the first governing document of Plymouth Colony. It was drafted by the pilgrims who crossed the Atlantic aboard the Mayflower. the mayflower compact was significant because this was the first governing document of plymouth colony. This signified not a constitution; but an agreement to form a crude gov … ernment, and to submit the will of the majority under the regulations agreed upon.