1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3  Various trace gases make up the remainder. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.
Stratosphere. The Stratosphere extends from the tropopause up to 31 miles above the Earth's surface. This layer holds 19 percent of the atmosphere's gases but very little water vapor. Temperature increases with height as radiation is increasingly absorbed by oxygen molecules leading to the formation of Ozone. The Ionosphere. Exosphere. The Exosphere is the outermost layer of the atmosphere. It extends from the thermopause-the transition boundary which separates the exosphere from the thermosphere below-to 6,200 miles (10,000 km) above the earth. In this layer, atoms and molecules escape into space and satellites orbit the earth
The atmosphere consists of 4 layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. Figure A shows the placement of the different layers of the atmosphere and how the temperature changes with height as you go from the ground up to space. The troposphere is the lowest layer of the atmosphere. This is the layer where we live and where weather happens. Temperature in this layer generally decreases with height. The boundary between the stratosphere and the troposphere is called the tropopause.
Space. The atmosphere has 4 layers: the troposphere that we live in near the surface of the earth; the stratosphere that houses the ozone layer; the mesosphere, a colder and lower density layer with about 0.1% of the atmosphere; and the thermosphere, the top layer, where the air is hot but very thin. The troposphere is the lowest layer of the atmosphere. This is the layer where we live and where weather happens. Temperature in this layer generally decreases with height. The boundary between the stratosphere and the troposphere is called the tropopause.
In meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body. These suspended particles are also known as aerosols and are studied in the cloud physics branch of meteorology. 
Cirrocumulus is one of the three main genus-types of high-altitude tropospheric clouds, the other two being cirrus and cirrostratus. They usually occur at an altitude of 5 kilometres (16,000 ft) to 12 kilometres (39,000 ft). Like lower altitude cumuliform and stratocumuliform clouds, cirrocumulus signifies convection. Thus cirrocumulus clouds are usually short-lived. They usually only form as part of a short-lived transitionary phase within an area of cirrus clouds and can also form briefly as a result of the breaking up of part of a cumulonimbus anvil.
The troposphere is the lowest layer of Earth's atmosphere. It extends from Earth's surface to an average height of about 12 km, although this altitude actually varies from about 9 km (30,000 ft) at the poles to 17 km (56,000 ft) at the equator, with some variation due to weather. The lower pie represents the trace gases that together compose about 0.038% of the atmosphere (0.043% with CO 2 at 2014 concentration). The numbers are from a variety of years (mainly 1987, with CO 2 and methane from 2009) and do not represent any single source.
Diagram of the layers within Earth's atmosphere. Troposphere. The troposphere starts at the Earth's surface and extends 8 to 14.5 kilometers high (5 to 9 miles). This part of the atmosphere is the most dense. Almost all weather is in this region. Stratosphere. The stratosphere starts just above the troposphere and extends to 50 kilometers (31 miles) high.
The general concepts found in this section are: 1  The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.