A plant disease is usually defined as abnormal growth and/or dysfunction of a plant. Diseases are the result of some disturbance in the normal life process of the plant. Diseases may be the result of living and/or non-living causes. Biotic diseases are caused by living organisms such as fungi, bacteria, and viruses. 
Most plant diseases are caused by fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Although the term disease is usually used only for the destruction of live plants, the action of dry rot and the rotting of harvested crops in storage or transport is similar to the rots of growing plants; both are caused by bacteria and fungi. Most mosaic diseases and many other types of chlorosis are caused by viruses (see virus). Plant diseases are more often classified by their symptoms than by the agent of disease, because the discovery of microscopic agents such as bacteria dates only from the 19th cent.
Most plant diseases – around 85 percent – are caused by fungal or fungal-like organisms. However, other serious diseases of food and feed crops are caused by viral and bacterial organisms. Certain nematodes also cause plant disease. You are not actually seeing the disease pathogen, but rather a symptom that is being caused by the pathogen. Here are a few examples of common signs and symptoms of fungal, bacterial and viral plant diseases: Fungal disease signs: 1  Leaf rust (common leaf rust in corn).
Some microbes cause disease in humans, plants, and animals. Others are essential for a healthy life, and we could not exist without them. Indeed, the relationship between microbes and humans is delicate and complex. Most microbes belong to one of four major groups: bacteria, viruses, fungi, or protozoa. 
Plant pathogenic bacteria cause many serious diseases of plants throughout the world (Vidhyasekaran 2002; Figure 2), but fewer than fungi or viruses, and they cause relatively less damage and economic cost (Kennedy and Alcorn 1980). 
Parasitic Diseases & Plant Pathogens That Cause Them. The bulk of this program concentrates on those plant health problems that are caused by pathogenic microorganisms. These organisms include fungi, bacteria, and viruses. About 85% of all plant diseases are caused by fungi. Therefore, on a statistical basis alone, you are likely to encounter fungal diseases much more often than those caused by other types of pathogens.
These “bad-news” microbes are called disease-causing microbes and can make humans, animals and plants sick by causing infection and disease. Most microbes belong to four major groups: bacteria, viruses, protozoa or fungi. (To find out more, see the “Bacteria/Viruses/Protozoa” fact sheets). 
Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. Most bacteria that are associated with plants are actually saprotrophic, and do no harm to the plant itself. However, a small number, around 100 known species, are able to cause disease. Bacterial diseases are much more prevalent in sub-tropical and tropical regions of the world.
Fungi Fungi are the most prevalent plant pathogen of indoor ornamental plants. They cause a number of leaf spot, stem, and root rot diseases. Most foliage diseases caused by fungi develop circular, dead spots or lesions on leaves, stems and flowers. The gray-to-brown center is dry and papery, with a darker edge. Plants are subject to two types of disorders: 1  Abiotic or non-infectious disorders; caused by environmental, cultural, and non-living things. 2  Biotic, infectious or pathogenic diseases; caused by living pathogenic microorganisms such as fungi, bacteria, viruses, or nematodes.