If you are remodeling or adding on to your home, you will be required to obtain a building permit from your local building department. Permits take time and do cost money so you need to budget that into your remodeling costs. You should consult with a licensed contractor before starting your remodeling project. If you are in the process of remodeling and you are caught, you will have to stop the work until you obtain a permit which could cause delays and a lot of hassles and extra money. Also, the local tax appraiser’s office may discover your extra sq. footage when they are reappraising the homes in the neighborhood.
Even if you do not get caught and finish the work without obtaining a permit, you must disclose the fact that additions were added or remodeling was done without permit when you go to sell your home. This could affect the price and the property appraisal. If you are in the process of remodeling and you are caught, you will have to stop the work until you obtain a permit which could cause delays and a lot of hassles and extra money. Also, the local tax appraiser’s office may discover your extra sq. footage when they are reappraising the homes in the neighborhood.
Your deck-building project may not seem complex enough to you to require a permit, especially if you live in an area that requires getting bonded, submitting numerous plans, and paying a fee. Nevertheless, do not try to circumvent the permitting process. Save yourself from potential future trouble by obtaining a building permit before you begin work. In some areas, the penalties for building without a permit can be quite steep. You may be required to tear apart the entire structure and pay a fine. At a minimum, if you re caught without a permit, you ll be required to stop work until a permit is obtained. If it s a busy time of year, this may take weeks or month
I built 2 columns in the front for speakers (floor to ceiling) 2 columns in the back for my equipment and to cover a water heater, and put a fake wall in front of my garage door(which is still up). I added AC and now the company that did the AC work says they need to send a city inspector to inspect their AC work. The type of project will dictate the need for a permit- - building a small closet in a bedroom likely won't-a larger project like yours with electrical work, HVAC, etc would.
You need to get a permit for most construction projects that involve: 1  New construction. 2  Alteration or remodeling. 3  Demolition of a building or structures. 4  A change of use or occupancy on a property (for example if you are changing an office to a restaurant). 5  Work in an environmentally critical area, such as a steep slope. 
Nonetheless, before you decide one way or the other regarding whether to obtain a permit, it makes sense to know the reasoning behind the permitting process and what's at risk. The building permitting process ensures that structures adhere to approved minimum standards or codes of construction. Save yourself from potential future trouble by obtaining a building permit before you begin work. In some areas, the penalties for building without a permit can be quite steep. You may be required to tear apart the entire structure and pay a fine. At a minimum, if you re caught without a permit, you ll be required to stop work until a permit is obtained. If it s a busy time of year, this may take weeks or months
If the inspector determines that you did need a permit he can do several things- - you can be fined-you can be made to redo some or all of the work-you can be made to remove the some or all of the work-any combination of the above See also-http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Building_pe... - David. Source(s): The type of project will dictate the need for a permit- - building a small closet in a bedroom likely won't-a larger project like yours with electrical work, HVAC, etc would.