Robert Reynolds, founding bassist and vocalist for the alt-country rock band The Mavericks, has been fired from the band due to ongoing opiate addiction, just as the band was to embark on tour in support their first new studio album, according to Angela Stefano of The Boot. 
The Mavericks are an eclectic American band, combining neotraditional country music, Latin, and Rockabilly influences. The Mavericks were founded in 1989 in Miami, Florida. Between 1991 and 2003, the band recorded six studio albums, in addition to charting 14 singles on the Billboard country charts. Their highest-peaking American single was 1996's . All You Ever Do Is Bring Me Down , a collaboration with accordionist Flaco Jimenez. jiménez The band split up in 2004, and lead singer Raul Malo released six solo albums. Bass player Robert Reynolds and keyboardist Jerry Dale McFadden co-founded the 'supergroup' SWAG, along with Ken Coomer of Wilco, Tom Petersson of Cheap Trick, and Doug Powell.
The Mavericks are an American country music band. The group formed in 1989 in Miami, Florida. The Mavericks won Vocal Group of the Year at the Country Music Awards in 1995 and 1996. They won a Grammy Award in 1996 for Best Country Performance by Duo/Group with Vocals. Their version of Blue Moon was featured in Tom Hanks' 1995 motion picture Apollo 13. Members.
The Mavericks are an American country music band. The group formed in 1989 in Miami, Florida.The Mavericks won Vocal Group of the Year at the Country Music Awards in 1995 and 1996. They won a Grammy Award in 1996 for Best Country Performance by Duo/Group with Vocals. Their version of Blue Moon was featured in Tom Hanks' 1995 motion picture Apollo 13. Members. 
Edward Anthony Perez (born June 26, 1968 in Los Angeles, California) is an American guitarist and singer. He currently tours and records with The Mavericks again after a long time of being on tour with Dwight Yoakam. Prior to this, Perez joined the Grammy award-winning, multi-platinun band The Mavericks as a member in 2003. He has also played with other notable artists such as James Intveld, Connie Smith, Jim Lauderdale, Miranda Lambert, Lee Ann Womack, Gary Allan and Kim Richey. 
Fusing traditional country with traditional rock & roll, the Mavericks became one of the most critically acclaimed and commercially successful groups of the early '90s. Led by singer/songwriter Raul Malo (born August 7, 1965, Miami, Florida), the band was formed in Florida in the late '80s. 
Contemporary Country. Fusing traditional country with traditional rock & roll, the Mavericks became one of the most critically acclaimed and commercially successful groups of the early '90s. Led by singer/songwriter Raul Malo (born August 7, 1965, Miami, Florida), the band was formed in Florida in the late '80s. 
The Mavericks began their career within the punk and alternative music scene in Miami, Florida, frequently playing on the same bill as emerging acts like Marilyn Manson, etc. The band initially consisted of singer Raul Malo, guitarist Ben Peeler, bassist Robert Reynolds; and drummer Paul Deakin. The band split up in 2004, and lead singer Raul Malo released six solo albums. Bass player Robert Reynolds and keyboardist Jerry Dale McFadden co-founded the 'supergroup' SWAG, along with Ken Coomer of Wilco, Tom Petersson of Cheap Trick, and Doug Powell.
The group formed in 1989 in Miami, Florida. The Mavericks won Vocal Group of the Year at the Country Music Awards in 1995 and 1996. They won a Grammy Award in 1996 for Best Country Performance by Duo/Group with Vocals. Their version of Blue Moon was featured in Tom Hanks' 1995 motion picture Apollo 13. Members.