For dessert, he favored Deep South diner classics. One of Elvis's favorite sweets was the pound cake made by his childhood friend Janelle McComb. She gave us her recipe in 1987, on the 10th anniversary of Elvis's death. Every year at Christmas, she'd bake two loaves and bring them to Graceland. Penny De Los Santos. The King was a big fan of rich sweets, and classic buttery pound cake—flavored simply with vanilla—was no exception. When we wrote our book Elvis World (Knopf, 1987), we often dined with fans of The King.
I make this pound cake every year to use in the White Chocolate and Apricot Trifle recipe from Epicurious many years ago. It is a delicious pound cake and can be the base for many desserts. Sometimes I add a couple of teaspoons of almond extract,, Elvis Presley's Favorite Pound Cake. Beat together butter (2 sticks) and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes in a stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment or 6 to 8 minutes with a handheld mixer. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla.
Try this Elvis Presley Pound Cake recipe, or contribute your own. Celebrity and Cakes are two tags used to describe Elvis Presley Pound Cake. Try this Elvis Presley Pound Cake recipe, or contribute your own. Celebrity and Cakes are two tags used to describe Elvis Presley Pound Cake. As a self appointed Pound Cake connoisseur I have made about every kind/style there is. 
Elvis Presley's Favorite Pound Cake. Ingredients: : a 10-inch tube pan (4 1/2 inches deep; not with a removable bottom) or a 10-inch bundt pan (3 1/4 inches deep; 3-qt capacity). Instructions: note: Cake keeps, covered well with plastic wrap or in an airtight container, at room temperature 5 days. Source: Elvis Presley's Favorite Pound Cake-epicurious.com. This is one of the best pound cakes I have ever tasted.
Elvis Presley's Pound Cake. Despite Elvis's worldwide fame, he never lost his taste for down-home Southern sweets, like this pound cake adapted from childhood friend, Janelle McComb. Penny De Los Santos. The King was a big fan of rich sweets, and classic buttery pound cake—flavored simply with vanilla—was no exception. When we wrote our book Elvis World (Knopf, 1987), we often dined with fans of The King.
For all of you Elvis Presley fans and Pound Cake fans: This is the best pound cake we have ever tasted. It's tender appeal is owed in part to cake flour and cream, and in part to beating the batter an extra 5 minutes. 
I think not. So I went hunting down the famous recipe on the interwebs and found it at Saveur. The story behind one of Elvis’s favorite sweets was the pound cake made by his childhood friend Janelle McComb. Every year at Christmas, she’d bake two loaves of Elvis Presley’s Favorite Pound Cake and bring them to Graceland. It is said Elvis could eat one all by himself
Delicious simple vanilla pound cake goes well with any fruit or dollop of whipped cream. I came to know about Elvis late in my life, however in India we have an old actor who copied Elvis style and was famous there, none other Shammi Kapoor. There is also a famous song starts with the Yahoo starring Shammi. Pound cake is a favorite of Southern cuisine. Coming to this Elvis Presley’s favorite vanilla pound cake, it was made by his childhood friend Janelle McCombone. She makes two loaves every Christmas for him. Elvis would finish one loaf by himself. She gave the recipe on his 10th death anniversary to a local newspaper. When I saw the recipe I got immediately hooked