Trichomoniasis (or “trich”) is a very common sexually transmitted disease (STD) that is caused by infection with a protozoan parasite called Trichomonas vaginalis. Although symptoms of the disease vary, most women and men who have the parasite cannot tell they are infected. Back to Top. In the United States, an estimated 3.7 million people have the infection, but only about 30% develop any symptoms of trichomoniasis. Infection is more common in women than in men, and older women are more likely than younger women to have been infected.
Definition. Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by a parasite. In women, trichomoniasis can cause a foul-smelling vaginal discharge, genital itching and painful urination. Men who have trichomoniasis typically have no symptoms
1 Trichomonas infection can affect women or men. 2  Many people who have the infection have no symptoms, but when symptoms occur, they include vaginal or urethral (in men) discharge that may appear greenish and frothy, burning on urination, discomfort during sex, and itching in the genital area. Trichomoniasis (TRIK-uh-muh-NEYE-uh-suhss) is a sexually transmitted infection (STI) caused by a parasite. It is sometimes called trich.. Trichomoniasis is the most common curable STI found in young, sexually active women. The parasite is spread through sexual contact.
Bacterial Vaginosis vs. Trichomoniasis. There are three main types of vaginal infections that women are faced with: bacterial vaginosis (BV), yeast infections, and trichomoniasis (trich). All 3 exhibit similar symptoms, particularly vaginal itching, burning sensation and pain within the vaginal region. Bacterial vaginosis mostly affects women of childbearing age, whereas trichomoniasis can affect both men and women. Trichomoniasis is caused by a microscopic parasite that can live and multiply in the vaginal area. It is classified as an STD since it can be transferred between partners.
Font Size. A. A. A. Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by a small organism called Trichomonas vaginalis. Women are most often affected by this disease, although men can become infected and pass the infection to their partners through sexual contact. 
Trichomoniasis Overview. Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted infection (or sexually-transmitted disease, STD) caused by a protozoan (a microscopic parasite), usually found in the vagina and urethral tissues. Although this condition is most often treated in women, trichomoniasis infection in men can also occur (and often has no symptoms). 
Trichomoniasis, a sexually transmitted infection of the urogenital tract, is a common cause of vaginitis in women, while men with this infection can display symptoms of urethritis. 'Frothy', greenish vaginal discharge with a 'musty' malodorous smell is characteristic. 
Trichomoniasis is a common cause of vaginitis. It is a sexually transmitted infection, and is caused by the single-celled protozoan parasite Trichomonas vaginalis producing mechanical stress on host cells and then ingesting cell fragments after cell death. Trichomonas vaginalis infection is the most common non-viral STI in the world with an estimated 248 million new cases per year. It is more common in women (2.7%) than males (1.4%). It is also the most common non-viral STI in the U.S., with an estimated 3.7 million prevalent cases and 1.1
About Trichomoniasis. Trichomoniasis (or trich) is a very common sexually transmitted disease (STD) that is caused by infection with a protozoan parasite called Trichomonas vaginalis. Although symptoms of the disease vary, most women and men who have the parasite cannot tell they are infected. About the Penis. Trichomoniasis (or trich) is a very common sexually transmitted disease (STD) that is caused by infection with a protozoan parasite called Trichomonas vaginalis.