5–7 days in fridge with a cork. Most light white and rose rosé wines will be drinkable for up to a week when stored in your. Refrigerator’you ll notice the taste will change subtly after the first day as the wine. oxidizes Q: A: It depends on the type of wine and how well the wine is stored. Fortified wines can last open for up to a month, but most last only about 3–5 days.
An opened bottle of white will be okay for a couple of days, depending on the quality. However the taste changes a bit (less fruity). Red wine should be drunk not at regular room temperature, but depending on the wine between 14 and 18 degrees Celsius (58 - 65 Fahrenheit). A decanter can be usefull for some wines. You should drink red wine at room temperature or about 65 degrees. Most White wines are usually fairly good priced, in the $4 to $8 range. Just to expand your knowledge: Zinfandel is a RED grape that is mainly made into RED WINE but with so much on the market the wineries in CALIFORNIA began making WHITE ZINFANDEL.
3–5 days in a cool dark place with a cork. The more tannin and acidity the red wine has, the longer it will last open. So, a light red with very little tannin, such as Pinot Noir, won’t last open as long as a bold red like Petite Sirah. Q: A: It depends on the type of wine and how well the wine is stored. Fortified wines can last open for up to a month, but most last only about 3–5 days.
You could test the theory yourself by keeping a bottle of two different white wines in the fridge, and a second bottle of each in a cool, dark cellar. Open all the bottles after 3 months and evaluate in different orders under blind tasting conditions. I'll be interested to know the results of the experiment. 
Report Abuse. White wine can be kept in the fridge for 2 days MAXIMUM with the cork in. You should drink red wine at room temperature or about 65 degrees. Most White wines are usually fairly good priced, in the $4 to $8 range. Just to expand your knowledge: Zinfandel is a RED grape that is mainly made into RED WINE but with so much on the market the wineries in CALIFORNIA began making WHITE ZINFANDEL.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. An opened bottle of white wine will stay fresh in the fridge for at least several months, and sometimes for years. However it's best to seal it or even cover the lid. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
Basics After Opening. Re-cork the wine after every glass pour. Keep the open wine bottle out of light and stored under room temperature. In most cases a refrigerator goes a long way to keeping wine fresh longer; even red wines. When stored at colder temperatures the chemical processes slow down, including the process of oxidation that takes place when wine is exposed to oxygen.
3–5 days in fridge with a cork. Full-bodied white wines like oaked Chardonnay and Viognier tend to have much less acidity which will cause them to ruin more quickly than light white wines. Be certain to always keep them corked and in the fridge. Q: A: It depends on the type of wine and how well the wine is stored. Fortified wines can last open for up to a month, but most last only about 3–5 days.
Oxygen in the fridge will convert the alcohol into carboxylic acid, basically turning your expensive wine into expensive vinegar. Although this takes some time (roughly 2 weeks open at room temp, it may last a lot longer in the fridge.) this process starts as soon as the bottle has been opened. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.