HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE EXPENDITURES. The average homeowners insurance premium rose by 5.6 percent in 2012, following a 7.7 percent increase in 2011, according to a February 2015 study by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The average renters insurance premium was unchanged in 2012, after rising 1.1 percent the previous year. Florida had the highest average homeowners insurance premium in 2012 ($2,084) and Idaho had the lowest ($538). The countrywide average homeowners insurance premium was $1,034 in 2012. (See tables in EXPENDITURES FOR HOMEOWNERS AND RENTERS INSURANCE section below). EXPENDITURES HOMEOWNERS AND RENTERS INSURANCE. The average homeowners insurance premium rose by 5.6 percent in 2012, following a 7.7 percent increase in 2011, according to a February 2015 study by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
Estimates. According to the Federal Reserve Bureau, the average cost of an annual premium for homeowners insurance is between $300 and $1,000. For most homeowners, the annual costs for a homeowners insurance policy can be estimated by dividing the value of the home by 1,000, then multiplying the result by $3.50.
Well, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the average cost for homeowners insurance in 2006 was around $804. This is a national average, and some states are much higher and lower than this number. We will get to the most and least expensive states in just a moment. By Brandon Cornett | © 2014 All rights reserved. Welcome to The Average Cost of Things, where we help you get a better perspective on prices. In this article, we will talk about the average cost of a homeowners insurance policy, and what you can do to control the costs.
Average Cost. The average cost of homeowners insurance in Ohio in 2009 was $613 -- making it $267 less than the national average. Ohio has some of the lowest homeowners insurance rates in the country, ranking among the 10 states with the lowest premiums
The average cost of homeowners insurance is dependent on a lot of different factors. The homeowners insurance policy that you purchase for your home is very important. Without this type of protection, you are taking huge risks with your house. The average cost of your plan will depend on the coverage options that you decide to include. Cheaper options will generally have less coverage while the more expensive policies will come with a slightly higher average cost of homeowners insurance.
The average cost of homeowners insurance will be determined by several different factors that you may be able to control. The value of your house is going to be the main characteristic that determines the average price that you will pay for homeowners insurance. The average cost of your plan will depend on the coverage options that you decide to include. Cheaper options will generally have less coverage while the more expensive policies will come with a slightly higher average cost of
How Much Does It Cost? The average yearly premium cost for U.S. homeowners insurance in 2008 (as of 2010, the latest year for which data is available) was $791, according the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, but premiums vary widely and depend on multiple factors. 
An owner with a more expensive home will have to pay a higher average cost of homeowners insurance, as they will be protecting property that is worth more money. The age and location of your house will also play a part in determining the average cost that you will pay for homeowners insurance. The average cost of your plan will depend on the coverage options that you decide to include. Cheaper options will generally have less coverage while the more expensive policies will come with a slightly higher average cost of