Synopsis. Henri Matisse is widely regarded as the greatest colorist of the twentieth century and as a rival to Pablo Picasso in the importance of his innovations. He emerged as a Post-Impressionist, and first achieved prominence as the leader of the French movement Fauvism. His art was important in endorsing the value of decoration in modern art. However, although he is popularly regarded as a painter devoted to pleasure and contentment, his use of color and pattern is often deliberately disorientating and unsettling. Matisse was heavily influenced by art from other cultures.
Fauvism is the style of les Fauves (French for the wild beasts), a loose group of early twentieth-century Modern artists whose works emphasized painterly qualities and strong color over the representational or realistic values retained by Impressionism. 
French painter of the Fauve Group, Henri Matisse (1869 - 1954) in his Paris studio. Photogravure from 'Men of Mark' - published 1913. Alvin Langdon Coburn / Stringer/ Hulton Archive/ Getty Images. Wild Beasts Invade the Art World. Matisse and his group of fellow artists experimented with different techniques, distancing themselves from traditional art of the 19th century. Visitors to a 1905 exhibition at the Salon d'Automne were shocked by the intense colors and bold strokes used by the artists.
[ɑ̃ʁi emil bənwɑ matis] ; 31 December 1869 – 3 November 1954) was a French artist, known for both his use of colour and his fluid and original draughtsmanship. He was a draughtsman, printmaker, and sculptor, but is known primarily as a painter. Matisse and a group of artists now known as  Fauves  exhibited together in a room at the Salon d'Automne in 1905. The paintings expressed emotion with wild, often dissonant colours, without regard for the subject's natural colours. Matisse showed Open Window and Woman with the Hat at the Salon.
Henri-Émile-émile Benoit (. [benoît matisse ɑ̃ʁi emil] ; bənwɑ Matis 31 – december 1869 3) november 1954 Was a, french artist known for both his use of colour and his fluid and. Original draughtsmanship he was, a, draughtsman printmaker, and sculptor but is known primarily as. a painter Matisse and a group of artists now known as  Fauves  exhibited together in a room at the Salon d'Automne in 1905. The paintings expressed emotion with wild, often dissonant colours, without regard for the subject's natural colours. Matisse showed Open Window and Woman with the Hat at the Salon.
Fauvism. is the style of les Fauves (French for the wild beasts), a loose group of early twentieth-century Modern artists whose works emphasized painterly qualities and strong color over the representational or realistic values retained by Impressionism. Henri Matisse.
Henri Matisse (1869-1954). Henri Matisse the French artist and leader of the fauve group is regarded as one of the great formative figures in 20th-century art, a master of the use of color and form to convey emotional expression. Matisse was born in Le Cateau in northern France on December 31, 1869
1 It was the art of a group of early twentieth-century Modern Arti…. 2  Henri Matisse's Painting The Dance Henri Matisse painted The Dance as a commissioned artwork for Sergei Shchukin, a renowned Russian art collector. 1 Fauvism Art Fauvism art is a style of painting that experienced a very short movement in the early 1900s, from 1904-1908. 2 
Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth, Texas. The relationship between the artists Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso is the subject of a new exhibition at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas, called Matisse and Picasso: A Gentle Rivalry.. 