That'll be in the cars that we were told are the spawn of the devil and that his government stealthly and directly taxed like no other. OK my rant is over-we can encourage people to use public transport by building a system like no other on earth and when that is in place we will use it. Until that time, which can now never happen, then we the people shall live our lives in the most efficient and convenient way for us and not be preached to. 2. Make it usable. Last train back here from London leaves before 10:30pm-so impossible to use public transport to have an evening out in London-or pretty much anywhere else for that matter. 3. Make it more reliable.
To illustrate the point, it takes me around an hour to travel 8 miles by bus-to the next town (Northampton) at a cost (IIRC) of £4.90 - It is faster and cheaper for me to use a 6.75 litre Bentley Turbo R. (it's a bit more fun too) I cannot really AFFORD public transport any more apart from anything else. 2. Make it usable. Last train back here from London leaves before 10:30pm-so impossible to use public transport to have an evening out in London-or pretty much anywhere else for that matter. 3. Make it more reliable.
When people use public transportation, we have healthier communities. In fact, using public transportation provides greater benefits for our air and water than adopting energy-efficient lighting, switching to an energy-efficient refrigerator, and weatherizing your home—combined. Public transportation benefits all of us, but for millions of Americans, it’s a necessity. It is the primary—or only—transportation option for people who cannot drive or do not have access to private vehicles.
Public Transportation Helps Create a Healthier Future. One of the most effective ways to help our environment is by increasing the use of public transportation and making it available to more people. We all share the benefits of cleaner air—even if we don’t use public transit personally. Public transportation benefits all of us, but for millions of Americans, it’s a necessity. It is the primary—or only—transportation option for people who cannot drive or do not have access to private vehicles.
Page Content. Public transportation in the United States is a crucial part of the solution to the nation’s economic, energy, and environmental challenges-helping to bring a better quality of life. In increasing numbers, people are using public transportation and local communities are expanding public transit services. 1 People board public transportation 36 million times each weekday. 2  Public transportation is a $61 billion industry that employs more than 400,000 people. 3  More than 7,200 organizations provide public transportation in the United States.
Public transit also supports healthy lifestyles. People who use public transportation walk more, which improves fitness and reduces the risk of developing obesity, diabetes, and heart disease. Public transportation benefits all of us, but for millions of Americans, it’s a necessity. It is the primary—or only—transportation option for people who cannot drive or do not have access to private vehicles.
1 More than 7,100 organizations provide public transportation in the United States. 2  From 1995 through 2013, public transportation ridership increased by 37.2%—a growth rate higher than the 22.7% increase in U.S. population and higher than the 20.3% growth in the use of the nation’s highways over the same period. 
I believe in public transport. I went car-less and licence-less until my late twenties. Apart from being a low emission way to get around taking public transport means you can do other things with your time, like read. So UK’s call to the shift back to rail and other similar public transportation is a welcome voice. There are other ways for governments to promote public transport, of course. Tax, for example. Back in the 1980s (not now) in Malaysia the automobile tax made owning a car for the average person impossible. So this meant most people (over 90 percent) rode motorbikes, a much more fuel efficient way to travel
Myth: Making public transport free will encourage use. Fact: Although Melbourne’s fares are far too high, cost is not the main factor that puts most people off using public transport in Melbourne. Just eliminating fares without improving services won’t shift the habits of enough people to justify the cost. 