Merbau (pronounced MER-boo), also known as kwila or ipil, is a tropical timber which inhabits mangrove forests. The wood is naturally oily with a high tannin content, making it highly durable and resistant to weathering, decay and termites. Its appearance is a deep reddish brown with occasional flecks of yellow which enhance its visual appeal.
Merbau (AKA Kwila) is a very durable and termite-resistant wood, making it a highly valued material for fences and other uses. Merbau Fences are an excellent choice when it comes to building a featured timber fence, privacy screen or gates around the home. 
The bark and leaves of the ipil are used in traditional medicines. The tree's timber, called merbau or kwila, is a very durable and termite-resistant wood, making it a highly valued material for flooring and other uses. The wood can also be used to extract a dye. Merbau can contain a gold fleck that runs through the grain, considered to be attractive by some. Intsia bijuga is a species of flowering tree in the pea family, Fabaceae, native to the Indo-Pacific. It ranges from Tanzania and Madagascar east through India and Queensland, Australia to the Pacific island of Samoa.
NO, by far.....there are only a few Indonesian hardwood species which are more or less termite resistant. Despite claims of most, - if not all -, other companies that Merbau and Bangkirai is 100% termite resistant IT IS NOT, since in most cases a mix of sap wood and heartwood is used. Only the use of sole heartwood gives full protection. A technical data sheet from the Australian timber base sheds some light on the termite resistance of Merbau and can be found at http://www.timber.net.au/?option=com_species&name=Merbau&Itemid=441 This article clearly indicates that only Merbau heartwood i
Merbau | Insia Bijuga. Merbau is a popular hardwood from South East Asia used in a wide range of applications; from construction to indoor and outdoor furniture. Merbau is a popular hardwood from South East Asia used in a wide range of applications; from construction to indoor and outdoor furniture. Other Names:&nbsp Kwila, Ipil, Vesi, Johnstone River Teak or Scrub Mahogany
MERBAU HARDWOOD FLOORING. Merbau Hardwood Flooring is a great option for any home because it is very strong and highly resistant to termites. This wood has recieved a Janka Hardness Rating of 1712, so it on the middle to high end of the spectrum
RATIONALE. Claiming that a wooden house built from Bangkirai or Merbau is 100% termite resistant is a deceiving statement, since not one supplier will supply heartwood only, hence they supply a mix of sapwood (very termite sensitive) and heartwood (not susceptible to termite attacks). There is only one wood species in Indonesia which have a core so dense and hard that termites can't eat it. This species is Bangkirai. Close followers are Bojonegoro Teak, Merbau and Iron wood. However, as is the case with all trees the outer rings (called sap wood) are soft or softer than the core (heartwood).
Termite resistance Merbau is only susceptible for termite (white ants) attacks when is is classified in Class 1 (heartwood) or 2. Merbau endurance against fungus is Class 1 Appearance The wood texture is evenly coarse. 
Douglas fir, hemlock, and spruce are the most common types of wood used for structural lumber. Of these materials, Douglas fir is moderately resistant to termites, whereas the other two are not. Remember that wood which is not naturally resistant to termites can be treated to make it resistant to termites. 
Any tree has a core called heartwood. This is the hardest part of a tree. There is only one wood species in Indonesia which have a core so dense and hard that termites can't eat it. This species is Bangkirai. Close followers are Bojonegoro Teak, Merbau and Iron wood. However, as is the case with all trees the outer rings (called sap wood) are soft or softer than the core (heartwood).