The prothrombin time (PT) — along with its derived measures of prothrombin ratio (PR) and international normalized ratio (INR) — are assays evaluating the extrinsic pathway of coagulation. This test is also called ProTime INR and PT/INR. They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status. PT measures factors I (fibrinogen) , II (prothrombin) , V, VII, and X. Laboratory measurement [edit]. The reference range for prothrombin time depends on the analytical method used, but is usually around 12–13 seconds (results should always be interpreted using the reference range from the laboratory that performed the test), and the INR in absence of anticoagulation therapy is 0.8-1.2.
INR stands for international normalized ratio. The INR provides some information about a person’s blood’s tendency to clot (which is often described as how “thin” or “thick” their blood is). The INR comes from the conversion of another value, the prothrombin time (PT). Prothrombin time is the time it takes for blood to clot in a test tube. A high or low PT can suggest bleeding or clotting tendencies. Most often, the PT is checked to monitor a person’s response to blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin). A normal INR is approximately 1.0. People taking the blood thinner warfarin typically have a target INR of 2.0 to 3.0. People with an INR higher than the normal range who aren’t taking warfarin may have a medical condition that needs further evaluation. A low INR is rarely significant.
However, in people taking warfarin a normal INR level is  … somewhere between 2 and 3.   High levels of INR are associated with: Disorders affecting  clotting factors; Warfarin usage; Vitamin K deficiency; Liver  disease; Disseminated intravascular coagulation etc. People taking anticoagulant drugs, such as Warfarin, will have a raised INR, typically between 2.5 and 3.5. This means the blood is less sticky and less likely to form clots in the event of certain surgical procedures or disease.
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a standardized number that's figured out in the lab. If you take blood thinners, also called anti-clotting drugs or anticoagulants, it's especially important to check your INR. The INR is figured out using the results of the prothrombin time (PT) test, which measures the time it takes for your blood to clot. The INR is an international standard for the PT.
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a calculation based on results of a PT and is used to monitor individuals who are being treated with the blood-thinning medication (anticoagulant) warfarin (Coumadin®). The PT and INR are used to monitor the effectiveness of the anticoagulant warfarin. This drug affects the function of the coagulation cascade and helps inhibit the formation of blood clots. It is prescribed on a long-term basis to people who have experienced recurrent inappropriate blood clotting.
INR Levels. For people taking blood-thinning medications, it is important to make sure that the medication is working properly to avoid serious complications. To help ensure safe treatment, a healthcare provider will take a blood sample and test how long it takes the blood to clot. This amount is then compared to an average to establish your international normalized ratio (INR). It is important that your INR levels are within normal limits. If your ratio is too high, it means it takes longer for your blood to clot and you may have an increased risk for uncontrollable bleeding.
Wot is the inr level for someone with a mechanical valve INR = International Normalised Ratio, which describes how 'sticky' the blood is. Values are taken relative to 'norma … l' which is an INR of 1.0. People taking anticoagulant drugs, such as Warfarin, will have a raised INR, typically between 2.5 and 3.5. This means the blood is less sticky and less likely to form clots in the event of certain surgical procedures or disease.
It's safer for you when your INR is in your Normal INR Range because the risks of an INR Level lower than your Normal INR range could mean that you are at risk for potential clots and an INR higher than your Normal INR Range could mean that you are at risk for potential internal bleeding. Normal INR Levels. The normal range for a healthy person not using warfarin is 0.8–1.2. However, this is a dangerously low INR for a person using Warfarin.