Araya appeared on the charts for the first time in 1992 on position #3568. In this article you'll learn the history of this name, statistics, see famous people named Araya and more. It could be that a name that is very popular on the national overall charts is less (or even more) popular where you live. So make sure you check out the state specific charts below and find out how popular or unique Araya is where you live. Araya is a 5 letter name with 3 syllables.
The highest recorded use of the name Araya was in 2014 with a total of 149 babies. According to the 2001 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Araya is not a popular baby girl's name in Michigan. Imagine that, only 5 babies in Michigan have the same name as you in 2001. Across the entire United States a total of only 79 babies also bear the same first name during the same year. 
Click on a place to view Araya immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Araya families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Araya birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Are you having a baby or looking to learn more about the name Araya? Our experts and editorial staff have gathered trends and insights for 30,000+ baby names over the last 100 years -- And on this page you will learn everything you ever wanted to know about the name Araya. It could be that a name that is very popular on the national overall charts is less (or even more) popular where you live. So make sure you check out the state specific charts below and find out how popular or unique Araya is where you live. Araya is a 5 letter name with 3 syllables.
The baby girl name Araya was given to 56 baby girls in 2012, ranking #1903 on the national girl baby name top chart. With that position 1 in 25,237 baby girls were given this name-making this a very unique female name according to our Popularity Score algorithm. It could be that a name that is very popular on the national overall charts is less (or even more) popular where you live. So make sure you check out the state specific charts below and find out how popular or unique Araya is where you live. Araya is a 5 letter name with 3 syllables.
Meaning: The Arabic name Araya means-a form of Ara. Rating: 
[ 3 syll. a-ra-ya, ar-aya ] The baby girl name Araya is pronounced as er AY AH †. Araya is of Armenian origin. Araya is a form of the English Ara. Araya is rare as a baby girl name. 
The meaning of Araya is  Of Araia . Its origin is  Basque . Araya is a form of Araia and is generally pronounced like  ah RYE ah . Another meaning of Araya is unknown. Its origin is  Modern English . Araya is a form of Araia and is generally pronounced like  ah RYE ah . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 1,743rd in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names
Powerful and complete. You are good intellectually and require several outlets for your energies. You are not a builder but a planner, and you want others to carry out your plans.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. 
Report Abuse. The girls name Araya has many different origins and meanings. two of which are latin (meaning alter), and Afghan (meaning decoration, ornament). Source(s): http://babynamesworld.parentsconnect.com... You are good intellectually and require several outlets for your energies. You are not a builder but a planner, and you want others to carry out your plans.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it.