Overall, about 90 out of every 100 men with localised prostate cancer will live for more than 5 years after they are diagnosed. Between 65 and 90 out of every 100 men (65 to 90%) will live for at least 10 years. Please note, these are relative statistics. This means that they don't include people with prostate cancer who have died from other causes. Overall outcome. The overall outlook statistics below are for people diagnosed with prostate cancer in England and Wales. Of all those with prostate cancer, around 95 out of every 100 men (95%) live survive for a year or more after they are diagnosed. Almost 90 out of every 100 men (90%) survive for 5 years or more.
When discussing cancer survival statistics, doctors often use a number called the 5-year survival rate. The 5-year survival rate refers to the percentage of patients who live at least 5 years after their cancer is diagnosed. Of course, many of these people live much longer than 5 years (and many are cured). 
Thanks to the development of newer treatments, men with metastatic disease can have an excellent long term survival as well. If your cancer is localized to the prostate and you receive either radiation therapy or surgery, you have a greater than 92% chance of living 10 years and not dying from the prostate cancer. If the cancer is localized to the prostate, and a patient’s elects either radiation therapy or surgery, there is a greater than 92% chance of living 10 years and not dying from the prostate cancer.
Prostate cancer can metastasize anywhere in the body. But according to researchers, about 80 percent of the time, malignant cells from the prostate spread to bones in the hips, spine, and pelvis. Once relocated, the cells begin growing at a rapid pace. The symptoms of metastatic prostate cancer vary. Symptoms depend on the location of the new cancer cells and the size of the metastases. For example, symptoms of prostate cancer that has spread to bones may include stiffness or pain in the hip, thighs, or back.
Statistics available today represent men who were diagnosed with metastases five years ago. Some of them didn’t have the improved treatment options available today. One study demonstrated the impact of new treatments on life expectancy for advanced prostate cancer. Researchers found that men who receive new treatments are living, on average, two years longer than they would 10 have years ago. The symptoms of metastatic prostate cancer vary. Symptoms depend on the location of the new cancer cells and the size of the metastases. For example, symptoms of prostate cancer that has spread to bones may include stiffness or pain in the hip, thighs, or back.
Ronald F. Tutrone, Jr., MD, FACS: The good news about prostate cancer is that if it is localized to your prostate, you have a greater than 95% chance of living over five years. If the cancer is localized to the prostate, and a patient’s elects either radiation therapy or surgery, there is a greater than 92% chance of living 10 years and not dying from the prostate cancer.
If prostate cancer is diagnosed at an early stage, the chances of survival are generally good. About 90% of men diagnosed at stages 1 or 2 will live at least five more years and 65-90% will live for at least 10 more years. If you are diagnosed with stage 3 prostate cancer, you have a 70-80% of chance of living for at least five more years. However, if you are diagnosed when your prostate cancer has reached stage 4, there is only a 30% chance you will live for at least five more years
Many patients wonder about prostate cancer life expectancy. If prostate cancer is localized, patients have a 95% chance of living more than five years, explains Dr. Tutrone. Thanks to the development of newer treatments, prostate cancer life expectancy is much longer than in the past. If the cancer is localized to the prostate, and a patient’s elects either radiation therapy or surgery, there is a greater than 92% chance of living 10 years and not dying from the prostate cancer.
Life expectancy Metastatic Prostate Cancer. by sonic37 on Fri Mar 15, 2013 12:46 AM. My father is 64, he was diagnosed with Prostate Cancer in July 2011, and then with metastatic Prostate Cancer in July 2012. He has had one batch of chemotherapy that worked too quickly and will not get anymore. 