How long should you cook a 4-1/2-lb. pork shoulder or butt roast? Per our usual nagging, you should cook it until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the roast measures 160째F (70째C). 
Cook for 2 to 4 hours, until fork tender: Let the pork cook undisturbed for 2 hours, then begin checking it every half hour. Total cooking time will be 2 to 4 hours, depending on the amount of pork and whether it's bone-in (which takes longer to cook). The pork is done when it is fork-tender (when the meat can be easily pierced with a fork without resistance and easily falls apart with a little pressure). Pin it Open Slideshow Pork shoulder is one of my secret weapons in the kitchen. A pork shoulder, slow-cooked and pulled into succulent little shreds, can become a thousand different meals. I can mix in some barbecue sauce and make pulled pork sandwiches, scatter the pork over pizza, or toss it into a sauce for pasta.
1 Place the roast in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature down to 200 degrees F. 2  Roast for about 4 hours or until the meat is falling-apart tender (cooking time will vary depending on the size of the roast). 3  Stir the salt and black pepper into the juice (do not omit the salt!). 4  Slice meat as desired. 1 Place the roast in a greased casserole dish with a lid. 2  Sprinkle the roast on all sides with Worcestershire sauce. 3  Let sit at room temperature for 1-1/2 hours. 4  After 1-1/2 hours spoon any Worcestershire sauce (if any) back on the roast that has accumulated on the bottom of the casserole.
Pork shoulder is best when it's cooked long and slow. Roast uncovered in the oven for about 1 hour per pound of meat. You may reduce the heat as needed if the pork appears to be cooking too quickly-many recipes call for 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius) rather than 350 (177 C). 6. Cook at a low heat for 8 to 10 hours. Place the cover on the crock pot and begin the lengthy slow cooking process. Slow cooking allows plenty of leeway in terms of cooking time, but, generally, you'll want to cook for roughly 2 hours
Using a pastry brush, spread the mixture all over the pork shoulder. Set the meat on a rack set into a roasting pan. Roast for 20 minutes, and then reduce the heat to 325 degrees F. Continue to cook until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the shoulder reads 185 degrees F, about 4 hours. Remove the pork from the oven and let stand until cool enough to handle, about 30 minutes. 
1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees F for 15 minutes. 2  Place the roast in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature down to 200 degrees F. 3  Roast for about 4 hours or until the meat is falling-apart tender (cooking time will vary depending on the size of the roast). 1 Place the roast in a greased casserole dish with a lid. 2  Sprinkle the roast on all sides with Worcestershire sauce. 3  Let sit at room temperature for 1-1/2 hours. 4  After 1-1/2 hours spoon any Worcestershire sauce (if any) back on the roast that has accumulated on the bottom of the casserole.
That temp is better for a pork loin that you are going to slice. Pork shoulder needs to cook long and slow to allow that fall apart tender thing you are looking for. I would go to like 185-195F. I know people that don't pull it off the smoker until it is 200-205. My suggestion is to try turning a fork to see if the meat falls apart at 160F. Then when it doesn't, cook longer. Hey gang I picked up a 7lb pork shoulder that I wanted to roast for various pulled dishes and was curious on cooking time and temp, I need it to be fall off the bone tender but not dry, any insight to how to pull this off is greatly appreciated. Thanks for your time. Reply.
Note that this cooking time is for a 4-pound Boston butt pork shoulder. A general rule on barbecued pork is to cook it at about 215째F to 225째F for 90 minutes per pound. If using a rub, you'll need to get the rub on the night before and refrigerate. An 8 pound roast will take at least 12 hours of cooking time. (If you want to cook 8 pounds of pork shoulder more quickly, I recommend starting with two 4 pound roasts, spaced on the grill a few inches apart, which will cook in just a little more time than an 8 pound roast.).
Pork shoulder (also known as Boston butt or Pork butt) is a cut of meat from the upper part of the front leg of a pig-the shoulder, in other words. Typically, pork shoulder cooking methods use slow, gradual cooking to create a tender, juicy, meat falls off the bone piece of pork. Regardless of the cooking method, this versatile cut of meat can serve as a main course, be pulled for sandwiches, or offered alongside summer barbecue fare. 6. Cook at a low heat for 8 to 10 hours. Place the cover on the crock pot and begin the lengthy slow cooking process. Slow cooking allows plenty of leeway in terms of cooking time, but, generally, you'll want to cook for roughly 2 hours per pound of meat.
1 Cover tightly. 2  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F for 15 minutes. 3  Place the roast in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature down to 200 degrees F. 4  Roast for about 4 hours or until the meat is falling-apart tender (cooking time will vary depending on the size of the roast). 1 Place the roast in a greased casserole dish with a lid. 2  Sprinkle the roast on all sides with Worcestershire sauce. 3  Let sit at room temperature for 1-1/2 hours. 4  After 1-1/2 hours spoon any Worcestershire sauce (if any) back on the roast that has accumulated on the bottom of the casserole.