Approximately 62% of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or LDS (Mormons), which greatly influences Utah culture and daily life. The world headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is located in Utah's state capital, Salt Lake City. Tourism is a major industry in Utah. With five national parks (Arches, Bryce Canyon, Canyonlands, Capitol Reef, and Zion), Utah has the third most national parks of any state after Alaska and California.
Located in the Rocky Mountain Region of the United States, Utah is a land of snow-covered peaks, natural rock formations, and beautifully colored canyons. Utah's Dixie is located in the extreme southwestern corner of the Basin and Ridge Region. This area is the warmest and the lowest part of the state. Colorado Plateau: The Colorado Plateau covers most of the southern and eastern areas of Utah.
The state of Utah is located in the Western region of USA. It has got its name from the Ute tribe that means people of the mountains in the Ute language. Situated in the Rocky Mountainous area of the country at 39.5° N, 111.5° W, Utah shares its northern border with Idaho, northeastern border with Wyoming, eastern border with Colorado, southern border with Arizona and western border with Nevada.
In 2010, the College of Eastern Utah, located in Price, Utah joined the USU system becoming Utah State University College of Eastern Utah (USU Eastern). Throughout Utah, USU operates more than 20 distance education centers. Located in Price, Utah, the former College of Eastern Utah joined the USU system in 2010 and became Utah State University College of Eastern Utah (USU Eastern). In 2013, the official name was shortened to Utah State University Eastern.
Know where is Utah located on the US map. As shown in the given Utah location map that Utah is located in the western part of the United States. Utah map also illustrates that the state shares border with Colorado in the east, Wyoming in the north-east, Idaho in the north, Nevada in the west, Arizona in the south, and New Mexico in the south-east. Utah is the 45th state that admitted in the Jurisdiction of the United States. Interestingly, the state name 'Utah' is derived from the Ute tribe language, which means people of the mountains. The climate of state varies from semi-arid to arid.
Location. Centrally located in the Intermountain West, Utah is bordered by all of the mountain states except Montana and is often called the Crossroads of the West.. The state's centrality is important to the prosperity of the Wasatch Front, Utah's core area, and particularly to the Salt Lake City metropolitan area. 
The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population of Utah was 2,942,902 on July 1, 2014, a 6.48% increase since the 2010 United States Census. The center of population of Utah is located in Utah County in the city of Lehi. Tourism is a major industry in Utah. With five national parks (Arches, Bryce Canyon, Canyonlands, Capitol Reef, and Zion), Utah has the third most national parks of any state after Alaska and California.
History of Utah. About Utah (UT). Utah is a state located in western United States. It is bordered by Arizona on the south, Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, Idaho on the north and Utah on the west. It also touches a corner of New Mexico. 1  Infographic of Utah Facts.
Utah (/ˈjuːtɔː/ or /ˈjuːtɑː/ ; (Navajo: Áshįįh áshįįh Bi To; Tó: Hahoodzo'arapaho) wo teeneihi tééneihí is a state In The. Western united states it became the 45th state Admitted to The union, on. january 4 1896 Tourism is a major industry in Utah. With five national parks (Arches, Bryce Canyon, Canyonlands, Capitol Reef, and Zion), Utah has the third most national parks of any state after Alaska and California.
Utah-Location, size, and extent. Located in the Rocky Mountain region of the western US, Utah ranks 11th in size among the 50 states. The area of Utah totals 84,899 sq mi (219,899 sq km), of which land comprises 82,073 sq mi (212,569 sq km) and inland water 2,826 sq mi (7,320 sq km). Utah extends 275 mi (443 km) E-W and 345 mi (555 km) N-S. 