Salman is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sal-man. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1504 in baby name popularity for boys with 107 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
You have searched for Salman meaning in urdu or سلمان meaning in english in muslim baby name databasae, remember names selection is very important in the life of every muslim family with new born babies, so choose the best names according to meaning, history and characteristics associated with each name. Muslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database.
Salman. This name originates from the ancient Hebrew word Sal which literally means sexy-genius. Thus the term Sal-man is used to describe a man of such character. In the modern day it is used as a name for a man with chiselled good looks and great intellect.
[ 2 syll. sal-man, sa-lm-an ] The baby boy name Salman is pronounced as S AE LMaeN †. Salman has its origins in the Arabic and Hebrew languages. It is used largely in the Arabic, Iranian, and Turkish languages. Salman is a variant of Salim (African, Arabic, English, and Swahili) in the Arabic language. Salman is also a variant of Solomon (English, Hebrew, Romanian, and Slavic) in the Arabic, Iranian, and Turkish languages. Salman is unusual as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. In 2012, among the family of boy names directly linked to Salman, Solomon was the most regularly used
Below you can find Salman gender info, english meaning and Salman meaning in urdu. Name: Salman. Gender: Boy. Meaning: Safe, mild, affable, perfect, name of a sahabi i.e. companion of the Prophet Muhammad. Muslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database.
Salman (also transliterated as Salmaan or Selman, Arabic: سلمان ‎) is a male Arabic given name that comes from the root of S-L-M. 
Salman /sal-man/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Salman is security, safety. Salman is a rare given name for men but a very popular surname for all people (#15710 out of 150436, Top 10%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Salman for boys. Salman has yet to be listed in the Top 1000 thus far. (2014 Birth Statistics)
The name Salman is of Persian origin. The meaning of Salman is name of a friend of ali. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is name of a friend of Ali. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.