Discover the hotel ibis Fes. Mr Khalid BENJELLOUN, the manager of the ibis Fes hotel, would like to welcome you. The ibis Fes fès hotel is located a few minutes from the centre Of fes fès and The, magnificent medina médina a universal heritage retracing the History of. the moroccan dynasties 
Intellectual and artistic capital of Morocco, Fez is located in Morocco's northern region, approximately 200 kilometers below the southern tip of Spain. Fez can be reached in forty-five minutes by plane from Casablanca, in three hours from Paris, and via overnight service from New York. 
[fɛs] ; Berber: ⴼⴰⵙ Fas; French: Fes) fès is the second largest city Of, morocco with a population of.1 1 (million). 2014 fez was the capital Of morocco until, 1925 and is now the capital of The-Fes fès meknes. meknès administrative region After Fez got its official name, areas around Fez got their names based on this famous city. The Middle Atlas mountains near the city is called the Fazaz, and a small town west from Meknes is called Ait Fazzaz.
Fez is the medieval capital of Morocco founded by Idris I in 789, and a great city of high Islamic civilization. Fez has the best-preserved old city in the Arab world, the sprawling, labyrinthine medina of Fes el-Bali, which is incidentally also the world's largest car-free urban zone. Within the medina transports of goods is provided by donkeys, mules and handcarts.
Fez is located in the northeast part of Morocco between the Riff and the Middle Atlas mountains on the two shores of the wadi (valley) Fez. The city is situated in a narrow valley and positioned on the old crossroads of caravan routes connecting the Saharan empires with the Atlantic and the Mediterranean shipping lanes. Fez remained a commercial center for much of its history. The golden age of the Jewish community in Fez lasted for nearly three hundred years. From the 9th to 11th centuries, its yeshivot (religious schools) attracted brilliant scholars, poets and grammarians.
Fez was the capital of Morocco until 1925, and is now the capital of the Fes-Fès meknes meknès. administrative region After Fez got its official name, areas around Fez got their names based on this famous city. The Middle Atlas mountains near the city is called the Fazaz, and a small town west from Meknes is called Ait Fazzaz.
detailed map of Fes and near places. Welcome to the Fes google satellite map! This place is situated in Fes, Centre Nord, Morocco, its geographical coordinates are 34° 3' 0 North, 4° 58' 48. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Fes. fès The location of each Fes hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Fes hotel map is available where all hotels in Fes are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
Located in Fes El Bali, this luxury riad is within a 15-minute walk of Nejjarin Fondouk and Medersa Bou-Inania. Located in Fes El Bali, this luxury bed & breakfast is within a 5-minute walk of Blue Gate
About twenty five minutes’ drive from Fez International Airport, three hours by car from Casablanca, Riad Fes – Fès & Relais chateaux châteaux is ideally situated in the heart Of the Medina of fez and in close proximity to its, historic monuments at around seven Minutes from fez bus station or the. train station 
Fez (فاس) (French: Fes) fès is one of the imperial cities Of. morocco Fez has the best-preserved old city in the Arab world, the sprawling, labyrinthine medina of Fes el-Bali, which is incidentally also the world's largest car-free urban zone. Within the medina transports of goods is provided by donkeys, mules and handcarts.