Once you've obtained your RN license, you may then begin on the path to becoming a nurse practitioner. The steps you take to become a nurse practitioner will include gaining nursing experience, completing a graduate program, becoming licensed and obtaining certification. Steps to Become a Nurse Practitioner. If you'd like to become a nurse practitioner, you can expect to complete somewhere between 6-8 years in training. You'll begin your career as a registered nurse (RN).
Candidates may choose from several graduate programs in order to become nurse practitioners. Nurses who have a master's degree in a different nursing background may opt to complete a post-master's graduate certificate program as a nurse practitioner. This can take five months to a year to complete, depending on the specialty. The first step to becoming a registered nurse is obtaining a Bachelor of Science in nursing degree (BSN). This degree takes four years to complete.
Most states have licensing requirements for nurse practitioners beyond an RN license. The requirements vary widely by state and are usually managed by the state's board of nursing. For example, according to the Oregon Board of Nursing, you must have a nurse practitioner's license (www.oregon.gov). Steps to Become a Nurse Practitioner. If you'd like to become a nurse practitioner, you can expect to complete somewhere between 6-8 years in training. You'll begin your career as a registered nurse (RN).
Step 3: Complete a Graduate Degree in Nursing. Registered nurses with a bachelor's degree who are interested in becoming nurse practitioners can qualify for the position by earning a master's or doctoral degree in nursing. Many nurse practitioners specialize in a specific area of medicine, such as pediatrics or family medicine during their graduate study. 
A: In order to become a nurse practitioner, one must first acquire a nursing degree. You can opt for ADN, LPN or bachelor's degree in nursing (BSN) from a state approved school. After completing a nursing program, candidates must take the licensing examination in their state. A: If you are aiming to become a nurse practitioner, the first step would be to complete a certification of diploma course in nursing. These courses normally take anywhere between 6 months and a year to complete.
A: In order to become a nurse practitioner, you will need at least a basic level education in the field of nursing. You can get this education by completing a diploma or certification that will take you 6 months to a year to complete. A: If you are aiming to become a nurse practitioner, the first step would be to complete a certification of diploma course in nursing. These courses normally take anywhere between 6 months and a year to complete.
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program. A: If you are aiming to become a nurse practitioner, the first step would be to complete a certification of diploma course in nursing. These courses normally take anywhere between 6 months and a year to complete.
Only registered nurses can enter nurse practitioner programs. You can become an RN by completing a diploma program, which is a two-or three-year program from a hospital school of nursing, or by completing an associate degree program, which is a two-year program offered by many community colleges and some universities. A master’s in nursing science usually takes four years for a full-time student. A doctoral program can take an additional three to four years. Many RNs who work full-time can only attend classes part-time, which may lengthen the time to an NP degree.
A: To become a nurse practitioner at the quickest, you can take up the certificate of nursing which is a one year program and the shortest to get nursing education. Certificate in nursing allows students to be able to practice and have introductory level knowledge and skills in the field of nursing. A: If you are aiming to become a nurse practitioner, the first step would be to complete a certification of diploma course in nursing. These courses normally take anywhere between 6 months and a year to complete.