The Cambrian spans from 541 million years to 485 million years ago and is the first period of the Paleozoic and of the Phanerozoic Eon. The Cambrian sparks a boom in evolution in an event known as the Cambrian Explosion in which the largest number of creatures evolve in the history of Earth during one period. The Paleozoic Era ended with the largest mass extinction in Earth's history, the Permian–Triassic extinction event. The effects of this catastrophe were so devastating that it took life on land 30 million years into the Mesozoic to recover. Recovery of life in the sea may have been much faster.
The Paleozoic Era, which ran from about 542 million years ago to 251 million years ago, was a time of great change on Earth. The era began with the breakup of one supercontinent and the formation of another. Plants became widespread. And the first vertebrate animals colonized land. Life in the Paleozoic. 
The Cambrian spans from 540 million years to 485 million years ago and is the first period of the Paleozoic and of the Phanerozoic eon. The Cambrian sparks a boom in evolution in an event known as the Cambrian Explosion in which the largest number of creatures evolve in the history of Earth during one period. 
The Paleozoic Era is bracketed by two major events in earth's history. It began with an unexplained explosion in animal life and ended with the world's largest mass-extinction known to man. The causes of these great events are currently unknown and under debate. Animal Life. The beginning of the Paleozoic era is marked by a sudden explosion of invertebrate animals, over 900 recorded species in the Cambrian period. It was only a few million years later that vertebrates appeared during the Ordovic
The start of the Paleozoic Era was marked by a huge diversification of life known as the Cambrian Explosion. Many genre of life emerged during the Cambrian Period. Although plants and animals were around in the Pre-Cambrian it was not until after the extinction event that immediately proceeded the Paleozoic that many advanced forms of life evolved such as multi-celled plants and advanced animals such as the arthropods. The Paleozoic era was from 540 million years ago to about 245 million years ago. After that came the Mesozoic era, and that lasted from the end of the Paleozoic to 65 million … years ago, when the earth entered the Cenozoic era.
The Mesozoic Era is the age of the dinosaurs and lasted almost 180 million years from approximately 250 to 65 million years ago. This era includes 3 well known periods called the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods. A mass-extinction marked the beginning and end of the Mesozoic Era. The event that caused the transition from the Paleozoic era to the Mesozoic era was the greatest extinction this earth has seen. This extinction wiped out about 95% of all marine life and 70% of land-life
Online exhibits: Geologic time scale. The Paleozoic Era. The Paleozoic is bracketed by two of the most important events in the history of animal life. At its beginning, multicelled animals underwent a dramatic explosion in diversity, and almost all living animal phyla appeared within a few millions of years. 