Osteoarthritis of the Knee. Osteoarthritis is the most common cause of musculoskeletal pain and disability in the knee joint. In the knee joint, the end of the femur (thigh bone) and tibia (shin bone) are covered in smooth articulate cartilage. Symptoms of osteoarthritis include joint pain with activity, night pain, morning stiffness, limited motion, joint inflammation, crepitus or noise from the knee, and deformity. Below are pictures of osteoarthritis in a knee joint. There are several options in treating osteoarthritis, both surgical and nonsurgical.
Osteoarthritis, commonly known as wear-and-tear arthritis, is a condition in which the natural cushioning between joints -- cartilage -- wears away. When this happens, the bones of the joints rub more closely against one another with less of the shock-absorbing benefits of cartilage. 1 In fact, weak muscles around the knee can lead to osteoarthritis. 2  Other illnesse s. 3  People with rheumatoid arthritis, the second most common type of arthritis, are also more likely to develop
Outcomes for most people with osteoarthritis are good. OA is the most common form of arthritis with disease of the knee and hip affecting about 3.8% of people as of 2010. Among those over 60 years old about 10% of males and 18% of females are affected. It is the cause of about 2% of years lived with disability
A. Arthritis is a general term that means inflammation of the joints. Osteoarthritis, commonly known as wear and tear arthritis, is the most common type of arthritis. It is associated with a breakdown of cartilage in joints and can occur in almost any joint in the body. It commonly occurs in the weight-bearing joints of the hips, knees, and spine. 
Introduction of Arthritis in the Knee. Arthritis in the knee is a condition that affects more than four million Americans annually, occurs when degenerative changes develop in the cartilage that lines the knee joint.
Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis. While it can occur even in young people, the chance of developing osteoarthritis rises after age 45. According to the Arthritis Foundation, more than 27 million people in the U.S. have osteoarthritis, with the knee being one of the most commonly affected areas. 1 In fact, weak muscles around the knee can lead to osteoarthritis. 2  Other illnesse s. 3  People with rheumatoid arthritis, the second most common type of arthritis, are also more likely to develop
Consensus is that total knee replacement is the most clinically effective treatment for severe osteoarthritis of the knee. Unicompartmental knee replacement may be more effective in the long term than tricompartmental knee replacement. 
Tricompartmental arthritis involves all three of the anatomical compartments of the knee joint. It can cause significant joint pain and stiffness, as well as instability; it tends to be more common in older adults, because it represents an advanced progression of disease. Surgically, one of the best options for tricompartmental arthritis can be a full knee replacement. Medical professionals typically only recommend surgery when other options are no longer viable because the joint is too degenerated, and replacing it may be the most efficient choice.
1 People with rheumatoid arthritis, the second most common type of arthritis, are also more likely to develop osteoarthritis. 2  People with certain metabolic disorders, such as iron overload or excess growth hormone, also run a higher risk of osteoarthritis. 1 In fact, weak muscles around the knee can lead to osteoarthritis. 2  Other illnesse s. 3 