Letter to W. B. Yeats. read this poet's poems. Born in Dublin, Ireland, on June 13, 1865, William Butler Yeats was the son of a well-known Irish painter, John Butler Yeats. He spent his childhood in County Sligo, where his parents were raised, and in London.
Early years. William Butler Yeats was born on June 13, 1865, in Dublin, Ireland. He was the oldest of four children of John Butler Yeats, a portrait artist. His father added to William's formal schooling with lessons at home that gave him an enduring taste for the classics. John Yeats had a forceful personality. Born: June 13, 1865 Dublin, Ireland Died: January 28, 1939 Roquebrune, France. Irish poet and dramatist. William Butler Yeats was an Irish poet and dramatist (playwright). Some think he was the greatest poet of the twentieth century.
Biography of William Butler Yeats William Butler Yeats was born in County Dublin on June 13, 1865. Due to the demands of his father's career as an artist, he moved with his family to London at a young age, but he spent summers in County Sligo, in Western Ireland.
Of Anglo-Irish descent, William Butler Yeats was born at Sandymount in County Dublin, Ireland. His father, John Butler Yeats (1839–1922), was a descendant of Jervis Yeats, a Williamite soldier, linen merchant, and well-known painter who died in 1712. Benjamin Yeats, Jervis's grandson and William's great-great-grandfather, had in 1773 married Mary Butler of a landed family in County Kildare. At the time of his marriage, William's father John Yeats was studying law but abandoned his studies to study art at Heatherley's Art School in London. His mother, Susan Mary Pollexfen, came from a wealthy merchant family in Sligo, who owned a milling and shipping business.
Early Life. William Butler Yeats was born on June 13, 1865, in Dublin, Ireland, the oldest child of John Butler Yeats and Susan Mary Pollexfen. Although John trained as a lawyer, he abandoned the law for art soon after his first son was born
Yeats spent most of his life between Sligo, Dublin, and London, but his profound influence to future poets and playwrights and theatre, music and film can be seen the world over. Early Years and Education. William Butler Yeats was born on 13 June 1865 in the seaside village of Sandymount in County Dublin, Ireland. His mother, Susan Mary Pollexfen (1841-1900) was the daughter of a wealthy family from County Sligo. O beloved daughter of Hope and Memory, be with me for a little. from This Book, The Celtic Twilight (1893). Forum Discussions on William Butler Yeats. William Butler Yeats (1865-1939) , Nobel Prize winning Irish dramatist, author and poet wrote The Celtic Twilight (1893);
William Butler Yeats (1865-1939) was born in Dublin. His father was a lawyer and a well-known portrait painter. Yeats was educated in London and in Dublin, but he spent his summers in the west of Ireland in the family's summer house at Connaught. The young Yeats was very much part of the fin de siecle siècle In; london at the same time he was active in societies that attempted An irish literary. revival
William Butler Yeats was born in Sandymount, Ireland and educated there and in London; he spent his childhood holidays in County Sligo. He studied poetry in his youth and from an early age was fascinated by both Irish legends and the occult. At the time of his marriage, William's father John Yeats was studying law but abandoned his studies to study art at Heatherley's Art School in London. His mother, Susan Mary Pollexfen, came from a wealthy merchant family in Sligo, who owned a milling and shipping business.