An inverter changes direct current to alternating current. All computers use both AC (alternating current) and DC (direct current). On a laptop computer the devices that use AC current are the cooling fan, floppy drive, hard disk drive, CD-ROM or DVD drive and the backlight for the LCD panel. However, laptops run on DC (battery) voltage. Therefore, the inverter is required to convert that DC to AC to light the backlight. In your case, the inverter probably is bad, especially if the laptop is relatively new, but the fluorescent backlight itself can also burn out.
A screen inverter is a small circuit board in a laptop computer that passes a power current from the body of the machine to the attached liquid crystal display (LCD) screen. A screen inverter creates the image displayed on a laptop screen. Laptop repairs are sometimes possible but not always, and in any event they tend to require a bit of expertise.
All laptops are comprised of numerous parts, but the LCD inverter plays an especially important role. The inverter is one of several key parts within a laptop's display; it helps to illuminate the screen. Purpose. Normally, a notebook's screen will display windows and other user-controlled elements. But without a backlight, the viewing experience would be similar to looking at a film reel without a projector. The inverter allows for the laptop's display to be lit by providing power to the screen's backlight.
From DC to AC and Back Again. Ironically, if you use an AC inverter to power a computer or television, the power supply in the device is converting the 120-volt alternating current into a much lower voltage direct current. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The name inverter is a little bit of a misnomer. It doesn't really invert the electrical signal, instead it converts DC electricity to AC electricity. In the case of a laptop LCD, the lighting is provided by a backlight. Without this backlight, the screen still works but it is very (very) dim. However, laptops run on DC (battery) voltage. Therefore, the inverter is required to convert that DC to AC to light the backlight. In your case, the inverter probably is bad, especially if the laptop is relatively new, but the fluorescent backlight itself can also burn out.
A power inverter, or inverter, is an electronic device or circuitry that changes direct current (DC) to alternating current (AC). The input voltage, output voltage and frequency, and overall power handling depend on the design of the specific device or circuitry. 
Location. The LCD inverter can usually be found inside some area of the laptop's display. For example, the MacBook's inverter can be found inside the display hinge, while other manufacturers place it along the side of the screen. Purpose. Normally, a notebook's screen will display windows and other user-controlled elements. But without a backlight, the viewing experience would be similar to looking at a film reel without a projector. The inverter allows for the laptop's display to be lit by providing power to the screen's backlight.
Most of the time the screen inverter board is the culprit. Here is just some symptoms you may be getting from a bad LCD backlight or bad inverter board problem: You still can see an faint or very dim image on the screen. Use a flashlight to see if you can see a dim display on the LCD. 
In electronics, an inverter can be defined as a device for converting direct current (DC) power into alternating current (AC). An example of an inverter is the adapter used in cars for converting the low voltage cigarette lighter’s power (DC) into mains equivalent voltage (AC). This allows the use of many types of household electrical devices while on the road. In a laptop, an inverter is often used to light the computer's screen. A laptop inverter is a small circuit board, usually about the size of a pen. Internally, a laptop runs on a low voltage, with the exception of the screen, which uses a backlit liquid crystal display (LCD). Without the inverter and the bulb it powers, the screen would be too faint to see properly