Dames’ pay included a R5 million package at the end of his contract, R1.9 million in back pay – as well as a R1.92 million payout in long-term incentives. Eskom has come under fire for paying its top executives millions in salaries despite a financial, and operational crisis at the power utility. However, Eskom is not a publicly-listed, for-profit company, and is better compared to other parastatals. In that context, Dames’ salary far outstrips any other CEO of a state-owned company – including Telkom, which is a semi-private company listed on the JSE.
Eskom is pleased to note that significant progress has been made and that most of the municipalities now have payment plans in place. These municipalities will only have their power supply interrupted should payment plans not be honoured and only if absolutely necessary. 
Thus, although Eskom says that with the 16% increases for five years (if Nersa approves), the average price per kilowatt-hour will be 128c, a cursory examination of a Tshwane bill shows that residents in certain areas already pay more than that for their power. PRETORIA – Eskom has asked for 16% tariff increases each year for five years as part of its third multi-year price determination (MYPD3), but promises to also play its part in keeping costs down. Firstly, the power utility has pledged to save R30bn in the next five years
31 Comments. rpm - 26-01-2013, 11:59 AM. One of the reasons Eskom is applying for an electricity hike is because the average annual salary of one of its employees is expected to be R820,000 in 2017 and 2018, according to a report on Saturday. In the documents Eskom claimed that in the current book year, the average salary per worker is R633,000 annually. According to the documents, the reason for the high salaries was because new power stations needed more employees, and there was need to get more skilled workers and to keep them.
Eskom Salary. Eskom average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Eskom salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Eskom salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
Tweet. One of the reasons Eskom is applying for an electricity hike is because the average annual salary of one of its employees is expected to be R820,000 in 2017 and 2018, according to a report on Saturday. In the documents Eskom claimed that in the current book year, the average salary per worker is R633,000 annually. According to the documents, the reason for the high salaries was because new power stations needed more employees, and there was need to get more skilled workers and to keep them.
In the last year Dames’ salary rose 9.6%, while Finance Director Paul O’Flaherty got an increase of 10%. That brought their salaries respectively to R8.28m and R5.5m which impacts on the average cost for an Eskom employee, which is around R506 000 (using numbers from the 2012 Integrated Report). According to the integrated report, the remuneration of executive directors increased last year with 9.82%. PRETORIA – Eskom has asked for 16% tariff increases each year for five years as part of its third multi-year price determination (MYPD3), but promises to also play its part in keeping costs down. Firstly, the power utility has pledged to save R30bn in the next five years
According to a parliamentary response to queries about the Eskom executive’s pay, last week, Public Enterprises Minister, Lynne Brown, noted that former Eskom boss, Brian Dames’ total pay for the 2013 financial year was in fact R22.78 million – higher than the R15.6 million listed in Eskom’s full year report. However, Eskom is not a publicly-listed, for-profit company, and is better compared to other parastatals. In that context, Dames’ salary far outstrips any other CEO of a state-owned company – including Telkom, which is a semi-private company listed on the JSE.