When a meteoroid, comet or asteroid enters the Earth's atmosphere at a speed typically in excess of 20 km/s (72,000 km/h; 45,000 mph), aerodynamic heating of that object produces a streak of light, both from the glowing object and the trail of glowing particles that it leaves in its wake.
Most of us probably have seen meteors or shooting stars. A meteor is the flash of light that we see in the night sky when a small chunk of interplanetary debris burns up as it passes through our atmosphere. Meteor refers to the flash of light caused by the debris, not the debris itself.
A meteoroid is a small rocky or metallic body travelling through space. Meteoroids are significantly smaller than asteroids, and range in size from small grains to 1 meter-wide objects.
A series of many meteors appearing seconds or minutes apart, and appearing to originate from the same fixed point in the sky, is called a meteor shower. If that object withstands ablation from its passage through the atmosphere as a meteor and impacts with the ground, it is then called a meteorite. Around 15,000 tonnes of meteoroids, micrometeoroids and different forms of space dust enter Earth's atmosphere each year.
A meteorite is a solid piece of debris from a source such as an asteroid or a comet, which originates in outer space and survives its impact with the Earth's surface. It is called a meteoroid before its impact. A meteorite's size can range from small to extremely large.
A meteor, known colloquially as a shooting star or falling star, is the passage of a meteoroid, micrometeoroid, comet or asteroid into the Earth's atmosphere, heated from collisions with air particles in the upper atmosphere and shedding glowing material in its wake sufficiently to create a visible streak of light.
A meteor is the streak of bright light that can be seen from Earth when a meteorite enters the atmosphere. The actual object entering the atmosphere is called a meteorite, and it is usually a piece of an asteroid.
A meteor is a meteoroid – or a particle broken off an asteroid or comet orbiting the Sun – that burns up as it enters the Earth's atmosphere, creating the effect of a shooting star. Meteoroids that reach the Earth's surface without disintegrating are called meteorites.