Vitamin K. Baby’s vitamin K stores at birth are very low. Vitamin K is needed for proper blood clotting, and a deficiency of this vitamin causes a syndrome called Vitamin K deficiency bleeding (VKDB). Increasing mom’s vitamin K intake increases the amount of vitamin K in her milk.
We give all healthy newborns a vitamin K shot shortly after delivery to prevent a type of bleeding called Vitamin K deficiency bleeding (VKDB), formally known as hemorrhagic disease of the newborn.
Vitamin K shots are routinely administered to newborn babies because 1.8 out of every 100,000 babies who do not receive vitamin K injections suffer permanent injury or death due to uncontrolled bleeding in the brain that may be the result of having extremely low levels of vitamin K in their systems.
Unregulated vitamin K supplements not recommended. We do not recommend giving your baby vitamin K from a source not approved by the FDA. The FDA does not regulate vitamin supplements purchased over the counter and there is no way to tell if the dose is too little or too much.
Babies are born with very small amounts of vitamin K in their bodies which can lead to serious bleeding problems. Research shows that a single vitamin K shot at birth protects your baby from developing dangerous bleed-ing which can lead to brain damage and even death.
All babies are born with low levels of vitamin K in their bodies. Vitamin K is made naturally in the intestine but as newborn babies have very little bacteria in their intestine they do not make enough. As your baby grows they will start to make enough vitamin K. Breastmilk does contain vitamin K but in too small an amount to provide protection.
Why does my newborn need a vitamin K shot? Vitamin K deficiency bleeding recently made the news when four cases of late bleeding were reported in healthy newborns in Nashville, Tenn. All parents had declined vitamin K, and their infants were reported to be developing normally until sudden bleeding occurred between 6 and 15 weeks.
1 all babies need vitamin K to produce clotting factors. 2  babies have low levels of vitamin K in their bodies at birth. 3  without vitamin K, babies are at risk of getting a rare bleeding disorder called VKDB (vitamin K deficiency bleeding) or HDN (haemorrhagic disease of the newborn).