Objectives This article reviews and critically evaluates historical and contemporary research on simulation-based medical education (SBME). It also presents and discusses 12 features and best practices of SBME that teachers should know in order to use medical simulation technology to maximum educational benefit. Simulation-based medical education is a complex service intervention that needs to be planned and practised with attention to organisational contexts. Medical Education 2010: 44: 50–63. View Full Article (HTML) Enhanced Article (HTML) Get PDF (131K) Get PDF (131K).
Medical simulation is a branch of simulation technology related to education and training in medical fields of various industries. It can involve simulated human patients, educational documents with detailed simulated animations, casualty assessment in homeland security and military situations, and emergency response. Its main purpose is to train medical professionals to reduce accidents during surgery, prescription, and general practice. The main purpose of medical simulation is to properly educate students in various fields through the use of high technology simulators. According to the Institute of Medicine, 44,000 to 98,000 deaths annually are recorded due primarily to medical mistakes during treatment.
Simulation-based medical education provides a controlled or simulated environment to imitate a real-life patient care setting. Through simulation, learners can practice and master skills without putting patients at risk. Emerging medical simulation technologies provide training in a risk-free, supportive environment where the complex nuances of ideal patient care can be identified, recreated, practiced and tested among learners to ensure the highest levels of competency.
OBJECTIVES: This article reviews and critically evaluates historical and contemporary research on simulation-based medical education (SBME). It also presents and discusses 12 features and best practices of SBME that teachers should know in order to use medical simulation technology to maximum educational benefit. A critical review of simulation-based medical education research: 2003-2009. McGaghie WC(1), Issenberg SB, Petrusa ER, Scalese RJ.
Simulation is the imitation or representation of one act or system by another. Healthcare simulations can be said to have four main purposes – education, assessment, research, and health system integration in facilitating patient safety. Simulation-based approaches can be effectively used to help evaluate organizational processes as well as individuals and team performance. Examples include disaster response or testing a new procedure before it is put into practice.
Simulation-Based Medical Education is one form that allows students to learn for educational purposes in a classroom. SBME works well with all forms of classroom learning such as lectures, problem solving, in hospital teaching, and other traditional forms of education. The main purpose of medical simulation is to properly educate students in various fields through the use of high technology simulators. According to the Institute of Medicine, 44,000 to 98,000 deaths annually are recorded due primarily to medical mistakes during treatment.
Simulation is the imitation of the operation of a real-world process or system over time. The act of simulating something first requires that a model be developed; this model represents the key characteristics or behaviors/ functions of the selected physical or abstract system or process. Simulation is also used with scientific modelling of natural systems or human systems to gain insight into their functioning. Simulation can be used to show the eventual real effects of alternative conditions and courses of action.
Simulation-based learning examples can today often be found in medical, physics, biology education and other fields as well and the results were positive. An example of this is “ Harvey ”, a cardiology patient simulator. Simulation-based learning is a constructivist learning model that provides learners with an experience of working on an usually simplified simulated world or system.
Abstract. The use of simulation-based medical education (SBME) in pediatrics has grown rapidly over the past 2 decades and is expected to continue to grow. Similar to other instructional formats used in medical education, SBME is an instructional methodology that facilitates learning. Successful use of SBME in pediatrics requires attention to basic educational principles, including the incorporation of clear learning objectives. In the future, all medical specialties, including pediatrics, will likely require simulation-based assessments as a measure of competency during training and continued retention of competency as part of maintenance of certification. 53.
As simulation-based learning is frequently used in medical education, a recent study has examined result of 670 related articles and identified 10 key aspects of simulation-based learning in medical education which enhance learning : providing feedback to the students, Simulation-based learning is a constructivist learning model that provides learners with an experience of working on an usually simplified simulated world or system.