Without scientific evidence, no one can say what dosage of raspberry ketone supplements, if any, might be safe to take. Talk to your doctor about any supplements you're thinking about taking, and any concerns you have about your weight or weight loss. Raspberry ketones in food and cosmetics are generally considered safe. But no one knows what short-or long-term effect raspberry ketone supplements could have on your overall health. No study has been done to document potential side effects. There are also no studies that look at potential drug or food interaction
It is most commonly used for weight loss and obesity. It is also used to increase lean body mass. Some people apply raspberry ketone to the scalp to improve hair growth. Raspberry ketone is also used in foods, cosmetics, and other manufacturing as a fragrance or flavoring agent. Raspberry ketone became popular for weight loss after it was mentioned on the Dr. Oz television show during the segment called “Raspberry ketone: Miracle fat-burner in a bottle” in February 2012
Raspberry ketone is used in perfumery, in cosmetics, and as a food additive to impart a fruity odor. It is one of the most expensive natural flavor components used in the food industry. Since the natural abundance of raspberry ketone is very low, it is prepared industrially by a variety of methods from chemical intermediates. One of the ways this can be done is through a crossed aldol-catalytic hydrogenation. In acetone and sodium hydroxide, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde can form the α,β-unsaturated ketone.
Raspberry ketone occurs in a variety of fruits including raspberries, cranberries and blackberries. It is biosynthesized from coumaroyl-CoA. Extraction of pure raspberry ketone is usually 1–4 mg per kg of raspberries. Since the natural abundance of raspberry ketone is very low, it is prepared industrially by a variety of methods from chemical intermediates. One of the ways this can be done is through a crossed aldol-catalytic hydrogenation. In acetone and sodium hydroxide, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde can form the α,β-unsaturated ketone.
Raspberry ketone is a natural phenolic compound that is the primary aroma compound of red raspberries. Since the natural abundance of raspberry ketone is very low, it is prepared industrially by a variety of methods from chemical intermediates. One of the ways this can be done is through a crossed aldol-catalytic hydrogenation. In acetone and sodium hydroxide, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde can form the α,β-unsaturated ketone.
Report Abuse. I saw the Dr. Oz clip last year that started this whole ketone craze. The nutritionist on the show said you would have to eat 90 lbs of raspberries to get the same amount of ketones as the supplement. They are supposed to accelerate fat cell reduction. So obviously the ketones are synthesized-chemically produced
Raspberry ketone is a chemical from red raspberries that is thought to help for weight loss. Some research in animals or in test tubes shows that it might increase some measures of metabolism. It might also affect a hormone in the body called adiponectin. It is also used to increase lean body mass. Some people apply raspberry ketone to the scalp to improve hair growth. Raspberry ketone is also used in foods, cosmetics, and other manufacturing as a fragrance or flavoring agent.
How raspberry ketones fit into all of this is that raspberry ketones have been shown to stimulate the production of adiponectin and raise the levels basically helping an overweight person lose weight by tricking the body into thinking it’s thin and adapting it as such. I use a brand called Raspberry Ketone Platinum which is clinical strength raspberry ketone weight loss formula. Not to say that is the only good one, but there are a lot of fake brands out there so just be careful when you are shopping. Hope I could be of some help. Source(s): http://raspberry-ketone-platinum.com.
When ketones are taken from raspberries, they can be used to add fragrance and flavor to things such as colas, ice cream, and cosmetics. Experts say that investing in a bottle of raspberry ketone supplements amounts to little more than wishful thinking. And it may or may not be harmful. Raspberry ketones in food and cosmetics are generally considered safe. But no one knows what short-or long-term effect raspberry ketone supplements could have on your overall health. No study has been done to document potential side effects. There are also no studies that look at potential drug or food interactions