The Pennine Bernese Carters are a group of Bernese Mountain Dog owners who have got together with the sole purpose of showing the public what the breed was originally used for in it's native land. 
One of a quartet of Swiss breeds known as mountain dogs, the Bernese developed as a cattle drover and cart dog in Alpine villages. He was a farm dog extraordinaire, herding cattle, hauling milk and other products to market, and watching over the family. 
Bernese Mountain Dog. The Bernese Mountain Dog is an extremely versatile working dog from the farmlands of Switzerland. He was developed to herd cattle, pull carts, and be a watchdog and loyal companion. He is one of four types of Swiss Mountain Dogs, and the only one with long hair. The Bernese Mountain Dog comes from the canton of Bern, hence his name. He's a large and sturdy dog breed, with a friendly and calm disposition, and he's well suited to conformation, obedience, tracking, herding, and carting competitions.
history. The distant origins of the Bernese Mountain Dog are not well documented. The breed apparently had its origins in the mastiff type dogs brought by the Romans when they came into Switzerland around two thousand years ago. The Roman dogs were used to guard and drive herds brought with the invaders. Fortunately, around the turn of the century, several Swiss dog fanciers realized that ignoring the many good qualities of the old native breeds would be a mistake. These pioneers brought Bernese from various isolated valleys in their home canton of Bern, and promoted the general interest in these dogs.
The Bernese temperament is a very are affectionate, loyal, faithful, stable and intelligent dog that is native to the mountains of Switzerland. The majority of Bernese are very friendly towards people, and animals including other dogs. Bernese love to be encouraged with praise and treats and this gorgeous breed is very sweet and good with children, despite their great size. Overall, they are very stable in temperament, patient, and loving. Bernese Mountain Dogs are quirky, loving dogs, craving love and affection.
The Bernese Mountain dog originated in the Swiss mountains. Many 18th century paintings show dogs that look like a Bernese type dog. The breed was named for the Canton of Bern in Switzerland. They were working dogs particularly good at draft work, pulling carts to market. 
The Bernese Mountain Dog, called in German the Berner Sennenhund, is a large-sized breed of dog, one of the four breeds of Sennenhund-type dogs from the Swiss Alps. The name Sennenhund is derived from the German Senne (“alpine pasture”) and Hund (“dog”), as they accompanied the alpine herders and dairymen called Senn. Like the other Sennenhunde, the Bernese mountain dog is a large, heavy dog with a distinctive tri-colored coat, black with white chest and rust colored markings above eyes, sides of mouth, front of legs, and a small amount around the white chest.
The Bernese Mountain Dog is a striking. tri-colored, large dog. He is sturdy and balanced. He is intelligent, strong and agile enough to do the draft and droving work for which he was used in the mountainous regions of his origin. Male dogs appear masculine, while bitches are distinctly feminine. 
Berner (or Bernese in English) refers to the area of the breed’s origin, in the canton of Bern in Switzerland. This mountain dog was originally kept as a general farm dog. Large Sennenhunde in the past were also used as draft animals, pulling carts. The breed was officially established in 1907. Like the other Sennenhunde, the Bernese mountain dog is a large, heavy dog with a distinctive tri-colored coat, black with white chest and rust colored markings above eyes, sides of mouth, front of legs, and a small amount around the white chest.