To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage.
1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can.
Rest your wrist to give it time to heal. You may find that, depending on the severity of the sprain, immobilization through a soft cast is necessary. If your sprain is the result of a sports injury, you should stop playing the sport immediately, at least for a few weeks while your wrist heals.
You may need to have a cortesone injection at the site of the injury, and then some physio to keep the shoulder mobile until it heals naturally. If the shoulder is allowed to 'freeze' then it could take a long tme to heal. I have had this condition and it has taken 10 months to overcome it using above treatment.
I sprained my arm by falling off the couch and it took 3 to 4 to 5 days to heal! then today at school i tripped and broke it. It will take 2-3 weeks to be normal, but to heal it rest it then it will take 5-6 days. i injured my right hand wrist by having a scooter accident my whole wrist hurts I cant move it up down left right is this a a sprained wrist or a fracture.
A mild sprain-actually any sprain-is very dependent on your age. If you're under 25, a mild sprain should be healed completely in 10 days. If you're past fifty, the same m … ild sprain will take a month to heal.
1 Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 4  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can.