Alternative searches for foreign intelligence 1  : Search for Definitions for foreign intelligence. 2  Search for Synonyms for foreign intelligence. 3  Quotes containing the term foreign intelligence. 4  Search for Phrases containing the term foreign intelligence. Information relating to capabilities, intentions, and activities of foreign powers, organizations, or persons, but not including counterintelligence, except for information on international terrorist activities. 
Foreign intelligence is information relating to the capabilities, intentions, and activities of foreign powers, organizations, or persons, but not including counterintelligence except for information on international terrorist activities. 
(A) knowingly engages in clandestine intelligence gathering activities for or on behalf of a foreign power, which activities involve or may involve a violation of the criminal statutes of the United States; “(B) sections 105B and 105C of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 [ 50 U.S.C. 1805b, 1805c ], as added by sections 2 and 3, respectively, of the Protect America Act of 2007, shall continue to apply with respect to an order, authorization, or directive referred to in paragraph (1) until the later of—.
Confidence votes 261K. A Foreign Intelligence Entity is a term in which describes organizations who are based abroad with the purpose to use various intelligence techniques in order to gather specific information. These entities can be government and non-government. 
(2) information with respect to a foreign power or foreign territory that relates to, and if concerning a United States person is necessary to—. (A) the national defense or the security of the United States; or. (B) the conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States. “(B) sections 105B and 105C of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 [ 50 U.S.C. 1805b, 1805c ], as added by sections 2 and 3, respectively, of the Protect America Act of 2007, shall continue to apply with respect to an order, authorization, or directive referred to in paragraph (1) until the later of—.
Intelligence relating to capabilities, intentions, and activities of foreign powers, organizations, or persons (not including counterintelligence), except for information on international terrorist activities. See also intelligence. 
Intelligence is information, not always available in the public domain, relating to the strength, resources, capabilities and intentions of a foreign country that can affect our lives and the safety of our people. 
counterintelligence. Information gathered and activities conducted to protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of foreign governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations, or foreign persons, or international terrorist activities.
(D) engages in the international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or activities in preparation therefor; or. (E) engages in the international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or activities in preparation therefor for or on behalf of a foreign power; or. “(B) sections 105B and 105C of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 [ 50 U.S.C. 1805b, 1805c ], as added by sections 2 and 3, respectively, of the Protect America Act of 2007, shall continue to apply with respect to an order, authorization, or directive referred to in paragraph (1) until the later of—.
(iii) clandestine intelligence activities by an intelligence service or network of a foreign power or by an agent of a foreign power; or. (B) information, whether or not concerning a United States person, with respect to a foreign power or foreign territory that relates to--. (i) the national defense or the security of the United States; or. (ii) the conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States.”.