1 Bread may be kept at room temperature for up to two days; cover with foil or plastic wrap or place in plastic bag to prevent drying out. 2  Bread will keep for an additional week in the refrigerator, covered with foil or plastic wrap or in plastic bag.
You can also use a plastic freezer bag or vacuum sealer. Flash freeze the bread for an hour or two on a cookie sheet before using a vacuum sealer so the bread does not get flattened. Thawing Baked Bread. A 1 pound loaf takes about 3 hours at room temperature, leave the loaf in it's wrapper until thawed.
Bakery bread is usually fresh but still needs to be frozen as soon as you get it home for best results. Wrap well in moisture-vapor proof plastic wrap with an outer layer of tin foil or in a plastic bag. Freeze homemade bread, like my sandwich bread, after cooling it.
Freeze crackers and crisp bread for up to 6 months at 0ºF. Wrap muffins in heavy-duty aluminum foil or set trays of muffins in the freezer until firm and transfer them to plastic bags for freezing. Store muffins from 6 to 12 months at 0ºF. Muffin batter can be frozen right in the tins for later baking.
Freezer. 2-3 months. Tips. 1  Bread may be kept at room temperature for up to two days; cover with foil or plastic wrap or place in plastic bag to prevent drying out. 2  Bread will keep for an additional week in the refrigerator, covered with foil or plastic wrap or in plastic bag.
If bread that is already baked is frozen the life of the bread is  about a month in the freezer. Bread tends to lose moisture when it  is frozen. Bread dough that is frozen … will last 6 months or more in  the freezer if it is placed in an airtight container.
Slices can thaw in 5-10 minutes at room temperature on the counter, and can be uncovered. Sliced bread can be toasted without thawing. Freezing Partially Baked Rolls and Buns. Only partially baking bread is not recommended for yeast or quick bread loaves.
Most recipes can be baked at 300F for 15 minutes or so. Let them cool before freezing individually on a cookie sheet. Package and label with type of bread, date and reheating instructions. To reheat take your frozen rolls or buns and put them in a preheated 400F oven for 10 minutes or until golden brown on top.
Freezing is a better long-term option, you can freeze your bread while preserving its taste and texture if you use an air-tight freezer safe container (or the plastic bag it came with a twist tie closure).