A competitive market is one in which a large numbers of producers compete with each other to satisfy the wants and needs of a large number of consumers. In a competitive market no single producer, or group of producers, and no single consumer, or group of consumers, can dictate how the market operates. 
2 years ago. Conditions that could negatively affect a company's competitive capability are c. Conditions that could negatively affect a company's competitive capability are called ________. This topic is currently locked from adding new posts. Only administrators and moderators can reply. If you'd like to contribute to this topic, start a new thread and make reference to this one. Otherwise, contact a moderator for more options.
To know if company resources play a vital role in a company's competition. 2. To understand the relationship between resources, capabilities, and competence of firms. 3. To know if resources play a significant role in achieving and sustaining the competitive advantage of an organization. Identify resources gaps and invest in upgrading weaknesses. 4.4 A Company’s Competitive Capabilities (Shaibu, 2010; pg 162-163) Capabilities refer to a company's ability to exploit its resources. They consist of processes and routines that manage the interaction among resources to turn inputs into outputs.
To have the potential of sustained competitive advantage, a firm resource must have four attributes 1  --. it must be valuable, in the sense that it exploit opportunities and/or neutralizes threats in a firm's environment. 2  it must be rare among a firm's current and potential competition. 3  it must be imperfectly imitable. --. A business organization with a competitive advantage is more profitable than its rivals while this profitability exceeds its cost of capital. Profits in excess of the cost of capital are called economic rent. Sustained economic rents are prima facie evidence of a competitive advantage.
The industry or market opportunities that are most relevant to a company and those which its strategy should aim at capturing include. *opportunities that are well-matched to the company's competitive capabilities and resource strengths. Strategies that yield sustainable competitive advantage is important because. a strategy that yields a competitive advantage over rivals and creates an enduring demand for a company's products or services is the key to a company's ability to earn ongoing above-average profits.
Cost Advantage and Differentiation Advantage. Competitive advantage is created by using resources and capabilities to achieve either a lower cost structure or a differentiated product. A firm positions itself in its industry through its choice of low cost or differentiation. This decision is a central component of the firm's competitive strategy. According to the resource-based view, in order to develop a competitive advantage the firm must have resources and capabilities that are superior to those of its competitors. Without this superiority, the competitors simply could replicate what the firm was doing and any advantage quickly would disappear.
3/4, 2008 289 111 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 30 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 40 1 2 3 4 5 6 711 8 The external environment and its effect on strategic marketing planning: a case study for McDonald’s Demetris Vrontis* School of Business, University of Nicosia, 46 Makedonitissas Ave., P.O. The external environment and its effect on strategic marketing planning 111 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 30 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 40 1 2 3 4 5 6 711 8 Figure 1 The STRATICS PROCESS – marketing planning 291 Source: adapted from Vignali et al.
B) External threats can negatively affect a company's competitive capability. These threats include intense price competition, political problems, and coordinated competition from other companies, amongst others. This topic is currently locked from adding new posts. Only administrators and moderators can reply. If you'd like to contribute to this topic, start a new thread and make reference to this one. Otherwise, contact a moderator for more options.
An Evaluation of a Company’s Resources and Capabilities; Achieving and Sustaining Competitive Advantage in Nigerian firms by Mrs. Hauwa Lamino Abubakar 1.0 Abstract Achieving a competitive advantage position relative to its business rival is what most Nigerian organization in particular should be aiming for. Identify resources gaps and invest in upgrading weaknesses. 4.4 A Company’s Competitive Capabilities (Shaibu, 2010; pg 162-163) Capabilities refer to a company's ability to exploit its resources. They consist of processes and routines that manage the interaction among resources to turn inputs into outputs.
Toward that end, a competitive pay policy is the cornerstone of an organization’s human capital investment strategy. How a company competes depends on three recruiting market conditions: The extent to which qualified employees are available in targeted recruiting markets. 