The spine is divided into three general regions: the cervical, thoracic and lumbar vertebrae. Each region aids with movement of a different part of the body. Ad. The processes located in the cervical portion of the spine connect muscles and ligaments to the small vertebrae in the neck region of the spine. In this area, they have what is known as transverse foramina, which act as passageways for the arteries that lead to the brain.
The vertebral arch refers to the lateral and posterior parts of the vertebrae. With the vertebral body, the vertebral arch forms an enclosed hole, called a vertebral foramen. The foramina of the all vertebrae line up to form the vertebral canal, which encloses the spinal cord. The vertebral column (also known as the backbone or the spine), is a column of approximately 33 small bones, called vertebrae. The column runs from the cranium to the apex of the coccyx, on the posterior aspect of the body. It contains and protect
The transverse process is a bony structure that protrudes from each side of the vertebrae, which means that there are two connected to each vertebrae of the spine. Ad. The processes located in the cervical portion of the spine connect muscles and ligaments to the small vertebrae in the neck region of the spine. In this area, they have what is known as transverse foramina, which act as passageways for the arteries that lead to the brain.
In accordance with the location and structural features in the spinal column distinguishes five types of vertebrae: 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral and 3-5 coccygeal. Cervical vertebra (vertebra cervicalis) is different from others in that it has a hole in the transverse processes. A total of 32-34 spine vertebrae separated by intervertebral disks and their slightly different device. The structure of a single vertebra is isolated vertebral body (corpus vertebrae) and vertebrae arch (arcus vertebrae), which closes the vertebrate hole (foramen vertebrae).
They form the region of the spinal column inferior to the cervical vertebrae of the neck and superior to the lumbar vertebrae of the lower back.... Click to read more below. The thoracic vertebrae are a group of twelve small bones that form the vertebral spine in the upper trunk. Thoracic vertebrae are unique among the bones of the spine in that they are the only vertebrae that support ribs and have overlapping spinous processes. Like all other vertebrae, the thoracic vertebrae help to support the weight of the upper body and protect the delicate spinal cord as it runs through the vertebral canal. The thoracic vertebrae are located in the thorax posterior and medial to the ribs.
Each vertebra has a facet on each side of the vertebral body which articulates with the head of a rib. There is also a facet on each of the transverse processes which articulates with the tubercle of a rib. The number of thoracic vertebrae varies considerably across the species. Specific to the cervical vertebra is the transverse foramen, (also known as foramen transversarium). This is an opening on each of the transverse processes which gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein and a sympathetic nerve plexus.
In the vertebrate spinal column, each vertebra is an irregular bone with a complex structure composed of bone and some hyaline cartilage, the proportions of which vary according to the segment of the backbone and the species of vertebrate animal. Specific to the cervical vertebra is the transverse foramen, (also known as foramen transversarium). This is an opening on each of the transverse processes which gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein and a sympathetic nerve plexus.
The upper and lower surfaces of the vertebra body give attachment to the intervertebral discs. The posterior part of a vertebra forms a vertebral arch, in eleven parts, consisting of two pedicles, two laminae, and seven processes. The laminae give attachment to the ligamenta flava. Specific to the cervical vertebra is the transverse foramen, (also known as foramen transversarium). This is an opening on each of the transverse processes which gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein and a sympathetic nerve plexus.
The pedicle is a pair of short processes that protrude backward on each side of the vertebrae in order to connect the body of the spinal vertebrae to the arch. The role of the transverse process, as previously mentioned, is dependent on its location within the spinal column. Ad. The processes located in the cervical portion of the spine connect muscles and ligaments to the small vertebrae in the neck region of the spine. In this area, they have what is known as transverse foramina, which act as passageways for the arteries that lead to the brain.