The Misconceptions of Benign Fasciculation Syndrome (BFS). This is the story of my experience with Benign Fasciculation Syndrome – a misunderstood and ignored neurological disorder involving muscle twitching (fasciculation), pain, fatigue, paresthesia, and cramping. [1,2] My story starts as far back as high school. 
Fibromyalgia syndrome is an illness with many faces. In fact, it is often accompanied by so many different symptoms that many health care providers have troubles diagnosing fibromyalgia in the first place. If you are suffering from fibromyalgia, you may be encountering some painful and annoying muscle twitching and weakness. These are two very common symptoms but they can exacerbate other fibromyalgia complications. So if you are suffering from muscle weakness and twitching, be sure to look into effective treatments.
Benign fasciculation syndrome (BFS) is a neurological disorder characterized by fasciculation (twitching) of various voluntary muscles in the body. The twitching can occur in any voluntary muscle group but is most common in the eyelids, arms, legs, and feet. Even the tongue may be affected. Presenting symptoms of benign fasciculation syndrome may include: 1  Fasciculations (primary symptom). 2  Generalized fatigue. 3  Muscle pain. 4  Anxiety (Which can also be a cause). 5  Exercise intolerance. 6  Globus sensation. 7  Paraesthesias. 8  Muscle cramping or Spasms
Read More. I'm new here and I haven't had a fibromyalgia diagnosis, but I have had muscle twitching all over (mostly in my legs) and that has died down quite a bit, but I've have tired muscles and I have been so tired. I get tender spots that hurt for no reason to the touch. Read More. Viruses can cause nerve damage and widespread muscle twitching rarely, but do not tend to cause localized rashes as you describe. Fasciculations involving the whole body are more likely to be benign, especially if no other neurological signs appear over time such as muscle weakness or wasting.
In fact, it is often accompanied by so many different symptoms that many health care providers have troubles diagnosing fibromyalgia in the first place. If you are suffering from fibromyalgia, you may be encountering some painful and annoying muscle twitching and weakness. These are two very common symptoms but they can exacerbate other fibromyalgia complications. These tender points tend to irritate nerves in the body, which may cause muscles to twitch involuntarily. Muscle twitching may also be related to the high incidence of sleep related disorders in fibromyalgia, including bruxism and restless leg syndrome.
Muscle twitching and weakness are common symptoms of fibromyalgia syndrome. In fact, more than half of fibromyalgia sufferers seem to experience at least one of the two symptoms. These tender points tend to irritate nerves in the body, which may cause muscles to twitch involuntarily. Muscle twitching may also be related to the high incidence of sleep related disorders in fibromyalgia, including bruxism and restless leg syndrome.
Benign Fasciculation Syndrome is a disorder of the nervous system characterized by the uncontrolled twitching (fasciculation) of voluntary muscle groups in various parts of the body that may or may not be associated with muscle cramps. 
The characteristic feature of Fibromyalgia is a muscle pain mostly in neck, back, thighs, and hips. There is presence of specific tender points in these areas that trigger the pain. Along with this there is morning stiffness in the muscles, brain fog, dizziness and other neurological symptoms. Read More. Viruses can cause nerve damage and widespread muscle twitching rarely, but do not tend to cause localized rashes as you describe. Fasciculations involving the whole body are more likely to be benign, especially if no other neurological signs appear over time such as muscle weakness or wasting.