Report Abuse. The narcissistic personality disorder is probably not genetic in the same way as the shape of your thumb. Rather, it is probably the vulnerability to the disorder that is inherited. The narcissistic behavioral or personality disorder is a learned trait, and is not passed through genetic. However, some psychologists would argue that narcissism is a genetic trait due to an imbalance of seortonin within the brain
Causes of Narcissistic Personality Disorder. The causes of NPD aren’t well understood. Inherited genetic defects are thought to be responsible for up to 50 percent of cases. Contributing environmental factors may include childhood abuse or neglect, excessive pampering, or unrealistic expectations from parents. Narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) is a mental condition in which sufferers have an inflated opinion of themselves and an intense need for the admiration and attention of others.
Abstract. Genetic epidemiologic studies indicate that all ten personality disorders (PDs) classified on the DSM-IV axis II are modestly to moderately heritable. Shared environmental and nonadditive genetic factors are of minor or no importance. No sex differences have been identified
Narcissistic personality disorder, also known as NPD, is a personality disorder in which the individual has a distorted self image, unstable and intense emotions, is overly preoccupied with vanity, prestige, power and personal adequacy, lacks empathy, and has an exaggerated sense of superiority. Below are the most common signs and symptoms found in people with narcissistic personality disorder: 1  An insatiable appetite for the attention of other people. 2  Generally prone to extreme feelings of jealousy. 3  Behave is if they deserve special treatment. 4  Commonly exaggerate their achievements, talents and importance.
http://samvak.tripod.com/index.html. no it is not genetic ,it is a learned disorder. The narcissistic behavioral or personality disorder is a learned trait, and is not passed through genetic. However, some psychologists would argue that narcissism is a genetic trait due to an imbalance of seortonin within the brain. 
In order for a person to be diagnosed with narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) they must meet five or more of the following symptoms: 1  Has a grandiose sense of self-importance (e.g., exaggerates achievements and talents, expects to be recognized as superior without commensurate achievements). A personality disorder is an enduring pattern of inner experience and behavior that deviates from the norm of the individual’s culture. The pattern is seen in two or more of the following areas: cognition; affect; interpersonal functioning; or impulse control.
In laypeople terms, someone with this disorder may be described simply as a “narcissist” or as someone with “narcissism.” Both of these terms generally refer to someone with narcissistic personality disorder. A personality disorder is an enduring pattern of inner experience and behavior that deviates from the norm of the individual’s culture. The pattern is seen in two or more of the following areas: cognition; affect; interpersonal functioning; or impulse control.
Narcissistic Personality Disorder is characterized by a long-standing pattern of grandiosity (either in fantasy or actual behavior), an overwhelming need for admiration, and usually a complete lack of empathy toward others. A personality disorder is an enduring pattern of inner experience and behavior that deviates from the norm of the individual’s culture. The pattern is seen in two or more of the following areas: cognition; affect; interpersonal functioning; or impulse control.
As with other mental disorders, the cause is likely complex. Narcissistic personality disorder may be linked to: 1  Mismatches in parent-child relationships with either excessive pampering or excessive criticism. 2  Genetics or psychobiology — the connection between the brain and behavior and thinking. 3  Symptoms. 4  Risk factors. 