Causes of boils and carbuncles. Boils and carbuncles are often caused by a type of bacteria known as Staphylococcus aureus (staph bacteria) infecting one or more hair follicles. Staph bacteria usually live harmlessly on the surface of the skin or in the lining of the nose.
Carbuncles are more likely than boils to leave scars. An active boil or carbuncle is contagious: the infection can spread to other parts of the person's body or to other people through skin-to-skin contact or the sharing of personal items.
A. A. A carbuncle is a red, swollen, and painful cluster of boils that are connected to each other under the skin. A boil (or furuncle) is an infection of a hair follicle that has a small collection of pus (called an abscess) under the skin. Usually single, a carbuncle is most likely to occur on a hairy area of the body such as the back or nape of the neck. An active boil or carbuncle is contagious: the infection can spread to other parts of the person's body or to other people through skin-to-skin contact or the sharing of personal items.
To research the causes of Carbuncle, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Carbuncle: 1  Staphylococcus aureus. 2  Abscess. 3  Bacteremia. 4  Cellulitis. 5  Community-acquired methicillin-resistant S aureus. 6  Community-associated methicillin-resistant S aureus. 7  CA-MRSA. 8  Conjunctivitis. 
A carbuncle is a group of boils (infections associated with hair follicles) on the skin. A carbuncle forms when a number of boils group together to form one lump, or when multiple hair follicles become infected at once. When multiple carbuncles form, the condition is known as carbunculosis. Carbuncles are typically triggered by bacterial infection of the hair follicles, usually by Staphylococcus aureus bacteria, but other bacteria and fungi present on the skin surface may also cause the infection. If the infection is not resolved quickly, pockets of bacteria, cells, dead tissue, fluid, and pus form
A carbuncle is a cluster of boils, draining pus onto the skin. It is usually caused by bacterial infection, most commonly with Staphylococcus aureus or Streptococcus pyogenes, which can turn lethal. However, the presence of a carbuncle is actually a sign that the immune system is working. 
A carbuncle usually develops when Staphylococcus aureus (staph) bacteria enter your hair follicles. Scrapes and other broken skin make it easy for bacteria to enter your body and cause an infection. The infection usually occurs deep within your skin and involves your hair follicles. It is also called a staph skin infection. Carbunculosis is the name given to more than one carbuncle. This condition can cause permanent skin scarring. It can easily infect other parts of your body and other people.
Overview. A carbuncle is an infection of the skin that may be filled with pus. The infection usually occurs deep within your skin and involves your hair follicles. It is also called a staph skin infection. Carbunculosis is the name given to more than one carbuncle. This condition can cause permanent skin scarring. It can easily infect other parts of your body and other people.
Boil Type: Carbuncle. A carbuncle is an abscess in the skin caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus. It usually involves a group of hair follicles and is therefore larger than a typical furuncle, or boil. A carbuncle can have one or more openings onto the skin and may be associated with fever or chills. Boils themselves are not contagious, but the bacteria that cause boils are. Until it drains and heals, an active skin boil is contagious. The infection can spread to other parts of the person's body or to other people through skin-to-skin contact or the sharing of personal items.
Most carbuncles are caused by the bacteria staphylococcus aureus. The infection is contagious. This means it can spread to other areas of the body or other people. A carbuncle is made up of several skin boils (furuncles). The infected mass is filled with fluid, pus, and dead tissue. 