There are too many mountains in Australia, but other notable peaks of include Mt Feathertop, Cradle Mountain, Mt Ossa, Mt Tywnam, Federation Peak (Australia's tallest cliff face at 600m vertically), Legges Tor, Frenchman's Cap, Mt Hotham, Barn Bluff, Mt Geryon. The hi … ghest peak in Australia, Mt Kosciuszko, is only 2228m high. Other significant mountains of the Australian Alps include Mt Townsend, Mt Buller, Mt Buffalo and Mt Bogong. North Queensland has a number of significant mountains, such as Bartle Frere.
3. Snowy Mountains. The Snowies are the highest mountain range in Australia and are home to our highest mountain, Mount Kosciuszko. However, don't let the name fool you; these mountains are beautiful all year, with each season distinct and offering gorgeous landscapes. 
The highest peak in Australia, Mt Kosciuszko, is only 2228m high. Other significant mountains of the Australian Alps include Mt Townsend, Mt Buller, Mt Buffalo and Mt Bogong. North Queensland has a number of significant mountains, such as Bartle Frere. The hi … 
The Himalayas, the most majestic and highest mountain range in the world, lie principally in China. Also the longest mountain range in China, they stretch fro 2,400 kilo … meters from west to east and 200-300 kilometers from north to south in China's Tibet, Pakistan, India, Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan. Passionate about all things Australian, I roam all over WikiAnswers, answering questions that have the remotest connection to Australiana ... and some that don't ... as my interests are far and wide. The highest mountain range in Australia is the Australian Alps, part of which is known as the Snowy Mountains. It is here that Australia's highest mainland mountain can be found: Mt Kosciuszko, at 2228m high (some sources say 2229m)
The Macdonnell Ranges of central Australia are significant, as are the Kimberley Ranges of north western Australia. The highest mountain on Australian territory is found on Heard Island, one of Australia's offshore territories. It is Mawson Peak, with an elevation of 2,745 m (9,006ft). The hi … ghest peak in Australia, Mt Kosciuszko, is only 2228m high. Other significant mountains of the Australian Alps include Mt Townsend, Mt Buller, Mt Buffalo and Mt Bogong. North Queensland has a number of significant mountains, such as Bartle Frere.
Highest and Biggest in Australia. Australia is the flattest, lowest and, except for Antarctica, the driest of all the continents. Part of the Great Dividing Range, the Snowy Mountains are Australia's tallest. It's here you'll find Australia's highest mountain, Mt. Kosciuszko. Although the tallest in Australia, it's only ranked the 71st highest in the world. Everest in Nepal is 4 times as high. World's highest mountains. 
Here are several mountain ranges in the Australian territories of Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia, Westren Australia, Tasmania and Northern Territory. The ten highest mountain ranges of Australia include: Apart from these, there are sevrel other mountain ranges in Australia like Mount Sugerloaf, Mount Jagungal, Mount Nebo, Mount Kaputar, Mount Warning, Mount Barney, Wilson s Peak, Mount Barney, Mount Edwards, Mount Brown and many others. 
Highest Mountains. The highest mountains on the Australian mainland are in the Snowy Mountains region in New South Wales and the Victorian Alps which are part of the Great Dividing Range separating the central lowlands from the eastern highlands. 
Mount Kosciuszko is a mountain located on the Main Range of the Snowy Mountains in Kosciuszko National Park, part of the Australian Alps National Parks and Reserves, in New South Wales, Australia. Various measurements of the peak originally called Kosciuszko showed it to be slightly lower than its neighbour, Mount Townsend. The names of the mountains were swapped by the New South Wales Lands Department, so that Mount Kosciuszko remains the name of the highest peak of Australia, and Mount Townsend ranks as second.