Male urinary system. Kidney infection (pyelonephritis) is a specific type of urinary tract infection (UTI) that generally begins in your urethra or bladder and travels up into your kidneys. A kidney infection requires prompt medical attention. If not treated properly, a kidney infection can permanently damage your kidneys or the bacteria can spread to your bloodstream and cause a life-threatening infection. Kidney infection treatment usually includes antibiotics and often requires hospitalization. 
Some kidney infections develop without a bladder infection. This is sometimes due to a problem in the kidney. For example, people are more prone to kidney infections if they have a kidney stone or an abnormality of the kidney. It is usually only one kidney that develops an infection. Possible complications which occur in a small number of cases include: 1  Sometimes germs (bacteria) from a kidney infection get into the bloodstream, particularly if treatment is delayed. 2  A kidney abscess can (rarely) develop. 3  The infection can sometimes cause some permanent damage to kidney tissues.
A: Group A Streptococcus is a bacterium that can cause a wide range of infections. People may also carry group A streptococci in the throat or on the skin and have no symptoms of illness. Most GAS infections are relatively mild illnesses such as strep throat, or impetigo (a skin infection). 
Kidney infection. A kidney infection is a painful, unpleasant illness that usually happens when bacteria travels up from your bladder into one or both of your kidneys. It's different from-and more serious than-cystitis, which is a common infection of the bladder that makes urinating painful. A kidney infection can be physically draining, even if you're normally healthy. It may take up to two weeks before you're fit enough to return to work. A kidney infection happens when bacteria enter and infect one or both of your kidneys. The bacteria are usually a type called E. coli, which live in your bowel.
A kidney infection is a painful, unpleasant illness that usually happens when bacteria travels up from your bladder into one or both of your kidneys. A kidney infection can be physically draining, even if you're normally healthy. It may take up to two weeks before you're fit enough to return to work. A kidney infection happens when bacteria enter and infect one or both of your kidneys. The bacteria are usually a type called E. coli, which live in your bowel.
Severe or recurrent infections may cause permanent kidney damage and lead to chronic kidney disease. In rare cases, infection in the kidney may spread to the bloodstream. Infection of the bloodstream is a serious condition called sepsis. Acute renal failure, a temporary condition in which the kidneys stop working, can also result. Pyelonephritis is a kidney infection, usually from bacteria that have spread from the bladder.
Term. Ureters are long slender tubes that convey urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder. They begin at level of __ as a continuation of the ___ ___. They descend behind the ___to the base of the bladder, turn medial and then run oblique through posterior wall of bladder. 
A kidney infection usually happens when bacteria, often a type called E. coli, accidentally gets into the urethra (the tube through which urine passes out of the body) from the anus and then travels up through the bladder into one of the kidneys. In most cases of kidney infection, only one kidney is affected. A kidney infection can be physically draining, even if you're normally healthy. It may take up to two weeks before you're fit enough to return to work. A kidney infection happens when bacteria enter and infect one or both of your kidneys. The bacteria are usually a type called E. coli, which live in your bowel.
Pyelonephritis: kidney bacterial infection. Hydronephrosis: obstruction of urine flow results in collection or the urine in the bladder and kidneys, increased pressure can cause damage. Chemical nephrosis: the ingestion of certain poisonous substances can cause renal failure. 