Carnival Magic 's keel was laid on 12 January 2010. Magic has 1,845 passenger cabins (an increase from her predecessor Carnival Dream 's 1,823 cabins) and 746 crew cabins; she can carry over 6,000 6,000 persons. The ship was floated out from her drydock on 27 August 2010.
CARNIVAL MAGIC Current Position (- DUAL TRACKING -). Current position of Carnival Magic, Itinerary History, Ports of Call, Weather Reports, Free Ship Tracking-Next Port, ETA, IMO number, Speed, Course, Track, Vessels Nearby data sources: www.carnival.com and www.vesselfinder.com and www.marinetraffic.com. 
Its map shows where is Carnival Magic cruise ship today, along with next cruise port of call, ETA (estimated arrival time and date) and the Magic ship current cruising speed in knots. You can share our Carnival Magic deck plans review via our social media buttons. Carnival Magic (built 2011, scheduled refurbishment 2015) is in the list of largest and newest Carnival cruise ships and the second of the three Carnival Dream-class ships – together with Breeze and Dream, and the new Carnival Vista.
Carnival Magic itinerary program offers roundtrip 7 day deals from Galveston TX to Bahamas, Eastern and Western Caribbean, with feature port destinations Nassau, Key West FL, Jamaica, Mexico (Cozumel, Progreso, Costa Maya), Belize, Roatan, Grand Cayman. Carnival Magic cruise ship. ms Carnival Magic is a passenger cruise ship with identification IMO number 9378486, MMSI number 370491000 and call-sign number 3ETA8, registered in Panama. The cruise ship is owned by Carnival Corporation & PLC, and operated by Carnival Cruise Lines. Carnival Magic is a Dream-class ship.
Able to accommodate a maximum of 4,724 passengers, Magic was the largest yet built ship for Carnival Cruise Line, surpassing the launched in 2008 and first in class Carnival Dream. The shipowner Carnival Cruise Lines is an American company headquartered in Doral, Florida. Technical Specifications. Launched in 2011, Carnival Magic is between the biggest Carnival ships and the second Dream-class vessel, together with Breeze, Dream and the new Carnival Vista.
CARNIVAL MAGIC. Since the fall of 2000, when Carnival started cruising from Galveston, GalvestonCruises.com has specialized in Galveston cruises, offering expert advice and great rates on cruises from Galveston. Galveston is pleased to welcome the Carnival Magic in Galveston each Sunday for 7-day cruises to the Caribbean.
Carnival Magic. Carnival Magic position at sea (current location of the Carnival cruise ship on a digital map) is a free AIS ship tracking service based on VesselFinder data. Carnival Magic cruise ship. ms Carnival Magic is a passenger cruise ship with identification IMO number 9378486, MMSI number 370491000 and call-sign number 3ETA8, registered in Panama. The cruise ship is owned by Carnival Corporation & PLC, and operated by Carnival Cruise Lines. Carnival Magic is a Dream-class ship.
Lots of what is found onboard Carnival Magic came from first-in-class Carnival Dream, like the Seaside Theatre, 2-deck Cloud 9 spa and WaterWorks aqua park (Magic has two waterslides-corkscrew and bowl slide, Dream's got one). Technical Specifications. Launched in 2011, Carnival Magic is between the biggest Carnival ships and the second Dream-class vessel, together with Breeze, Dream and the new Carnival Vista.