It was built (or rather, started) on 13 August 1961.   The Berlin Wall   Construction of the Berlin Wall started on 13 August 1961. It separated East and West Berlin a … nd plugged the last 'gap' in the Iron Curtain which divided Europe into two blocs. It remained in place till 9 November 1989. The Berlin Wall was built after the Allies won WWII. As part of the peace treaty, Germany was divided into East and West, with East Germany under the auspices of the USSR and … West Germany being overseen by the UK and US.
In 1961, East Germany closed the border and built the Wall dividing West Berlin from East Berlin. The area of East Berlin was the Sovjet zone, while West Berlin was compounded of the French, British and U.S. zones. Despite the defensive reasons given for the wall separating East and West Berlin, the wall was foremost built to prevent residents of East Berlin from leaving to live in Wes … t Berlin (part of west Germany).
Travelling to West Germany became difficult after closing the border between East and West Germany in 1952. The Wall was erected in 1961 because more than 2.6 million East Germans escaped to West Berlin or West Germany from 1949 to 1961 (total population of East Germany was about 17 million!). The Berlin Wall was built after the Allies won WWII. As part of the peace treaty, Germany was divided into East and West, with East Germany under the auspices of the USSR and … West Germany being overseen by the UK and US.
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. West Berliners initially could not visit East Berlin or East Germany at all-all crossing points were closed to them between 26 August 1961 and 17 December 1963. In 1963, negotiations between East and West resulted in a limited possibility for visits during the Christmas season that year (Passierscheinregelung).
The Berlin Wall (German: Berliner Mauer) separated the city of Berlin in Germany from 1961 to 1989. It separated the eastern half from the western half. Many people thought it was a symbol of the Cold War. The Berlin Wall was taken down on November 9, 1989. The Berlin Wall was about 168 km (104 miles) long. It was built to prevent people from escaping from the eastern half of Berlin.
In 1961, East Germany closed the border and built the Wall dividing West Berlin from East Berlin. The area of East Berlin was the Sovjet zone, while West Berlin was compounded of the French, British and U.S. zones.   The Eastern Bloc, under the control of the USSR, fell in 1989, as did the infamous Wall. The Berlin Wall was built after the Allies won WWII. As part of the peace treaty, Germany was divided into East and West, with East Germany under the auspices of the USSR and … West Germany being overseen by the UK and US.
The Soviet Union built the Berlin Wall to block their section (East Berlin) from the US/French/British controlled sections in West Berlin. It appears that the German Communist Walter Ulbricht, concerned that Germans were escaping from West Germany convinced the Russians to build the wall. Despite the defensive reasons given for the wall separating East and West Berlin, the wall was foremost built to prevent residents of East Berlin from leaving to live in Wes … t Berlin (part of west Germany).
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. Its demolition officially began on 13 June 1990 and was completed in 1992. The Berlin Wall. During the early years of the Cold War, West Berlin was a geographical loophole through which thousands of East Germans fled to the democratic West. In response, the Communist East German authorities built a wall that totally encircled West Berlin. It was thrown up overnight, on 13 August 1961.
It was built (or rather, started) on 13 August 1961.   The Berlin Wall   Construction of the Berlin Wall started on 13 August 1961. It separated East and West Berlin a … nd plugged the last 'gap' in the Iron Curtain which divided Europe into two blocs. It remained in place till 9 November 1989. Despite the defensive reasons given for the wall separating East and West Berlin, the wall was foremost built to prevent residents of East Berlin from leaving to live in Wes … t Berlin (part of west Germany).