A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects. For the treatment of high blood pressure, it may take 2 to 4 weeks before you get the full benefit of this medication. For the treatment of heart failure, it may take weeks to months before you get the full benefit of this medication.
Uses. Lisinopril is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. It is also used to treat heart failure and to improve survival after a heart attack. For the treatment of high blood pressure, it may take 2 to 4 weeks before you get the full benefit of this medication. For the treatment of heart failure, it may take weeks to months before you get the full benefit of this medication.
This medicine is a pink, round tablet imprinted with ZESTRIL 10 and 131 and is manufactured by Almatica Pharma, a subsidiary of Alvogen. An ACE inhibitor given 24 hours after a heart attack improves outcome. Lisinopril is also available as brand name Prinivil and Zestril, and in combination with the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (as lisinopril/hctz).
This medicine is a white, round tablet imprinted with ZESTRIL 2 1/2 and 135 and is manufactured by Almatica Pharma, a subsidiary of Alvogen. An ACE inhibitor given 24 hours after a heart attack improves outcome. Lisinopril is also available as brand name Prinivil and Zestril, and in combination with the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (as lisinopril/hctz).
Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. For the treatment of high blood pressure, it may take 2 to 4 weeks before you get the full benefit of this medication. For the treatment of heart failure, it may take weeks to months before you get the full benefit of this medication.
Lisinopril, a synthetic peptide derivative, is chemically described as (S)-1-[N2-(1-carboxy-3-phenylpropyl)-L-lysyl]-L-proline dihydrate. Its empirical formula is C 21 H 31 N 3 O 52 H 2 O and its structural formula is: Lisinopril is a white to off-white, crystalline powder, with a molecular weight of 441.53. It is soluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in ethanol. Zestril is supplied as 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg and 40 mg tablets for oral administration. Inactive Ingredients: Call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  feeling like you might pass out; 2  urinating less than usual or not at all; 3  swelling, rapid weight gain; 4  fever, chills, body aches, flu symptoms; 5  tired feeling, muscle weakness, and pounding or uneven heartbeats;
How to use Zestril. Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually once daily. If you are using the suspension form of this medication, shake the bottle well before each dose. Carefully measure the dose using a special measuring device/spoon. For the treatment of high blood pressure, it may take 2 to 4 weeks before you get the full benefit of this medication. For the treatment of heart failure, it may take weeks to months before you get the full benefit of this medication.
This medication is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. This product contains two medications: lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Lisinopril is an ACE inhibitor and works by relaxing blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily. Hydrochlorothiazide is a water pill (diuretic) that causes you to make more urine, which helps your body get rid of extra salt and water. Your doctor may direct you to take the individual medications first, and then switch you to this combination product. Do not continue taking the individual medications (lisinopril and/or hydrochlorothiazide) after you start this medication.
Lisinopril belongs to a group of medicines called ACE inhibitors. These cause the blood vessels to relax, making it easier for the blood to pass through them. Lisinopril tablets are used to treat: 1  high blood pressure. 2  heart failure. 3  diabetic kidney disease in patients with high blood pressure. 1 Initial dose is 10mg once daily. 2  Your doctor may increase your dose to a maintenance dose of 20mg once daily, up to a maximum dose of 80mg once daily. 3  If you are already taking diuretics, your doctor may tell you to stop taking the diuretic for several days before beginning treatment with Lisinopril tablets.