Trice at RootsWeb databases. Trice in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Trice genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Trice surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name.
Meaning: The Greek name Trice means-a short form of Theresa. Rating: 
You can find out where the majority of the Trice families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Trice birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by LouisaH. Confidence votes 25. Trice is classes as a nickname of Theresa, and the meaning of that name is reaper. A person would be called by the word for an animal or force of nature in orde … r to bring valued attributes to that person. Later names described something about a person and referred to what they did, what they looked like or where they came from. As a result, most names derive from a word with some meaning. However, in many cases the knowledge of that meaning is lost in everyday usage ad is merely an interesting but trivial piece of information, not expected to reflect any actual aspect of the person using the name
Definition of TRICE. : to haul up or in and lash or secure (as a sail) with a small rope. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Obie /obie/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of the name Obie is servant of God. Obie is an alternate form of Obadiah (Hebrew). Compare surname Obee. Kreatif forms: Obieoi, Oiobie. Obie is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#33333 out of 150436, Top 22%). (2000 U.S. Census).
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Henry en le Tres. This was dated 1327, in the Subsidy Rolls of Derbyshire, during the reign of King Edward 11nd of England, 307 - 1327. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. 
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Trice in Danish origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. 
Trice's origin is Old Greek. Trice is a variant form of the English, French, German, and Italian name Beatrice. Trice is also a shortening of the English and German name Theresa. The name Treece is a variant form of Trice. Trice is seldom used as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. Within the group of girl names directly related to Trice, Beatrice was the most commonly used in 2012