Ad. Another important aspect in the discipline of cytology is examining cell interaction. By studying how cells relate to other cells or to the environment, cytologists can predict problems or examine environmental dangers to cells, such as toxic or cancer-causing substances. Recognizing the similarities and differences of cells is of the utmost importance in cytology. Microscopic examination can help identify different types of cells. Looking at the molecules which form a cell, sometimes called molecular biology, helps in further description and identification.
Urine cytology is a test to look for abnormal cells in your urine. Urine cytology is used along with other tests and procedures to diagnose urinary tract cancers. Urine cytology is most often used to diagnose bladder cancer, though it may also detect cancers of the kidney, prostate, ureter and urethra. 
Cytology, more commonly known as cell biology, studies cell structure, cell composition, and the interaction of cells with other cells and the larger environment in which they exist. The term cytology can also refer to cytopathology, which analyzes cell structure to diagnose disease. Recognizing the similarities and differences of cells is of the utmost importance in cytology. Microscopic examination can help identify different types of cells. Looking at the molecules which form a cell, sometimes called molecular biology, helps in further description and identification.
cytology. the branch of biology that studies the structure, function, multiplication, and life history of cells. — cytologist, n. — cytologie, cytological, adj. the branch of biology that studies the structure, growth, and pathology of cells. — cytologist, n. — cytologie, cytological, adj. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cytology (from Greek κύτος, kytos, a hollow; and -λογία, -logia) is the study of cells. Cytology is that branch of life science that deals with the study of cells in terms of structure, function and chemistry. Robert Hooke is sometimes seen as the father of cytology. Based on usage it can refer to: 1  Cytopathology: the study of cellular disease and the use of cellular changes for the diagnosis of disease. 
exfoliative cytology microscopic examination of cells desquamated from a body surface or lesion as a means of detecting malignancy and microbiologic changes, to measure hormonal levels, etc. Such cells are obtained by aspiration, washing, smear, or scraping. (sī-tŏl′ə-jē). cytology. the study of cells, their origin, structure, function and pathology. aspiration biopsy cytology (ABC). the microscopic study of cells obtained from superficial or internal lesions by suction through a fine needle.
Cytology: The medical and scientific study of cells. Cytology refers to a branch of pathology, the medical specialty that deals with making diagnoses of diseases and conditions through the examination of tissue samples from the body.
Cytology is the examination of cells from the body under a microscope. In a cytology exam of urine, cells collected from urine are sent to a laboratory and examined to see how they look and function. The test is commonly used to check for infection, inflammatory disease of the urinary tract, cancer, or precancerous conditions
exfoliative cytology. microscopic examination of cells desquamated from a body surface or lesion as a means of detecting malignancy and microbiological changes, to measure hormonal levels, etc. cytology. the study of cells, their origin, structure, function and pathology. aspiration biopsy cytology (ABC). the microscopic study of cells obtained from superficial or internal lesions by suction through a fine needle.
exfoliative cytology microscopic examination of cells desquamated from a body surface or lesion, done to detect malignancy or microbiologic changes, to measure hormonal levels, and for other purposes. cytology. the study of cells, their origin, structure, function and pathology. aspiration biopsy cytology (ABC). the microscopic study of cells obtained from superficial or internal lesions by suction through a fine needle.