After months of breast-feeding, prolactin levels may also return to normal levels even if you still breast-feed. The pituitary glands of men and nonpregnant women also make prolactin but it is not clear what it does in the body for these people. Prolactin levels are different throughout the day.
Sexual problems in men may be linked to low levels of the hormone prolactin, according to a new study. The finding is perhaps surprising because experts have traditionally thought prolactin, which stimulates breast development and milk production in women, impairs men's sexual functioning at high levels. Men and non-pregnant women also produce prolactin, but it's not clear what the hormone does in these people. Studies have found that high prolactin levels in men are linked to low sexual desire and erectile dysfunction, and men suffering from such conditions are sometimes tested for high prolactin levels.
Hyperprolactinemia is defined as increased levels of serum prolactin. Normal prolactin levels are between 5-21 ng/mL. A prolactin level greater than 21 ng/mL is abnormally high (7). Hyperprolactinemia can be high due to normal physiological causes. Physiological or psychological stress can elevate prolactin in both men and women, but values rarely exceed 40 ng/mL. Women generally have higher levels of prolactin than men and also secrete more prolactin in response to physiological triggers than men (6). Strenuous exercise, sleep, and high-protein meals have also shown to increase prolactin levels. There are many pathologic causes of hyperprolactinemia
Hyperprolactinaemia or hyperprolactinemia is the presence of abnormally high levels of prolactin in the blood. Normal levels are less than 500 mIU/L [20 ng/mL or µg/L] for women, and less than 450 mIU/L for men. 
1 A normal or low prolactin level does not always mean there is no pituitary tumor. 2  An MRI test may be done if a pituitary tumor is suspected. 3  High levels of prolactin may mean that the pituitary gland is making excess prolactin for unknown reasons (idiopathic hyperprolactinemia). High values. 1  High levels of prolactin (usually higher than 200 ng/mL) may mean a pituitary gland tumor (prolactinoma) is present. 2  The higher the prolactin level, the more likely a pituitary gland tumor
Prolactin. Guide. A prolactin test measures the level of the hormone prolactin, which is made by the pituitary gland, in your blood. Pregnant women have high levels of prolactin, which helps make breast milk. During pregnancy, prolactin levels increase by 10 to 20 times. After the baby is born, prolactin stays high if you are breast-feeding. In women who do not breast-feed, prolactin levels return to normal soon after they give birth. The pituitary glands of men and nonpregnant women also make prolactin but it is not clear what it does in the body for these people. Prolactin levels are different throughout the day.
1 High levels of prolactin (usually higher than 200 ng/mL) may mean a pituitary gland tumor (prolactinoma) is present. 2  The higher the prolactin level, the more likely a pituitary gland tumor is present. High values. 1 
Traditionally, prolactin levels were measured in ng/ml, and normal prolactin levels in women are less than 29 ng/ml. The new units are pmol/l and to convery you need to multiply by 44. This means the normal level is less than. 700 pmol/l or mIU/L. A low level is of no clinical importance. 
Some women have high prolactin levels without any symptoms. In men, high prolactin levels can cause galactorrhea, impotence (inability to have an erection during sex), reduced desire for sex, and infertility. A man with untreated hyperprolactinemia may make less sperm or no sperm at all. Normally, both men and women have small amounts of prolactin in their blood. Prolactin levels are controlled by other hormones called prolactin inhibiting factors (PIFs), such as dopamine. During pregnancy, prolactin levels go up. After the baby is born, there is a sudden drop in estrogen and progesterone.