1 The concept of 'fair trade' has been around for over 40 years but a formal labelling scheme didn't get off the ground until the late 1980s. 2  In 1988: launch of the first Trade label, Max Havelaar, under the initiative of the Dutch development agency. We have fair trade so that all the communities in developing countries can earn a fair amount of money from producing crops. They also get decent working conditions, commitmen … t from the buyers, local sustainability and fair terms of trade for the farmers and producers.
The fair trade movement has undergone several important changes since its early days following World War II. Fair trade, first seen as a form of charity advocated by religious organizations, has radically changed in structure, philosophy and approach. The past fifty years have witnessed massive changes in the diversity of fair trade proponents, the products traded and their distribution networks. The first fair trade agricultural products were coffee and tea, quickly followed by dried fruits, cocoa, sugar, fruit juices, rice, spices and nuts. Coffee quickly became the main growth engine behind fair trade: between 25 to 50% of the total alternative trading organization turnover in 2005 came from coffee sales.
Fair Trade has been growing at 37% year to year increase, making people wonder whether Fair Trade is the biggest growing market after The Internet. How did Fair Trade begin? Fair Trade started in the mid 1940s and early 1950s in developed countries. » printer friendly version well i know that......... the fair trade movement, also known as the trade justice movement, promotes international labour, environment and social standards for the production of traded goods and services.
1 What is Fair Trade? www.FTRN.org Fair Trade is a lot of things: a social justice movement, an alternative business model, a system of global commerce, a tool for international development, a faith-based activity. It means different things to different people. There is no single, regulatory, authoritative body. 
Step 1. Write a business plan for your fair trade business. Decide whether you will open a store or sell fair trade items online. Visit other fair trade stores to see what they stock. Determine how you will differentiate your store from others like it by offering different products or creating a different atmosphere within your store.
Earth Divas' Blog. When the owner of Earth Divas, Ed Edmundson, decided to start a company that sold 100% fair trade items, he had no idea how to get started. Learning the ins and outs of how to source and supply fair trade items was a huge undertaking. And, like any business owner he made some mistakes along the way! 
Who we are. Fairtrade is a global movement with a strong and active presence in the UK, represented by the Fairtrade Foundation. Fairtrade is a movement for change that works directly with businesses, consumers and campaigners to make trade deliver for farmers and workers. The international Fairtrade system represents the world's largest and most recognised fair trade system
Additionally, Fair Trade USA, formerly a licensing agency for the Fairtrade International label, broke from the system and is implementing its own fair trade labelling scheme, which has resulted in controversy due to its inclusion of independent smallholders and estates for all crops. One of the main tenets of fair trade is that farmers receive a fair price, but this does not mean that the larger amount of money paid for fair trade cocoa goes directly to the farmers. In reality, much of this money goes to community projects such as water wells rather than to individual farmers.
Fair trade is a social movement whose stated goal is to help producers in developing countries achieve better trading conditions and to promote sustainability. Members of the movement advocate the payment of higher prices to exporters, as well as higher social and environmental standards. One of the main tenets of fair trade is that farmers receive a fair price, but this does not mean that the larger amount of money paid for fair trade cocoa goes directly to the farmers. In reality, much of this money goes to community projects such as water wells rather than to individual farmers.
Fair trade, is basically when companies pay producers [normally in developing countries] a fair price, for what they sell. The difference is that before, companies used to vio … late human rights and deny basic human needs. At the times of Globalization, this issue has come into the spotlight. We have fair trade so that all the communities in developing countries can earn a fair amount of money from producing crops. They also get decent working conditions, commitmen … t from the buyers, local sustainability and fair terms of trade for the farmers and producers.