Jesus conception was most assuredly immaculate, but the Immaculate Conception does not refer to Jesus at all. The Immaculate Conception is a doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church in regards to Mary, Jesus mother.
The Immaculate Conception is the Catholic dogma that the Mother of God, the Blessed Virgin Mary, was conceived in her mother's womb without the stain of original sin. A lot of folks mistakenly confuse the Immaculate Conception with the Virgin Birth of Jesus.
Essentially, the Immaculate Conception is the belief that Mary was protected from original sin, that Mary did not have a sin nature, and was, in fact, sinless. The problem with the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception is that it is not taught in the Bible.
The Immaculate Conception is a doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church. According to the Catholic Encyclopedia, the Immaculate Conception refers to the sinless state of Mary. Pope Pius IX proclaimed this doctrine of the Immaculate Conception of Mary on December 8, 1854.
Pope Pius IX officially defined the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception in the year 1854. He did so with the understanding that this belief would help the Catholic faithful grow spiritually towards Christ. The belief that Mary was without sin was not invented as numerous people mistakenly think.
The Immaculate Conception, according to the teaching of the Catholic Church, was the conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary in the womb of her mother, Saint Anne, free from original sin by virtue of the foreseen merits of her son Jesus Christ.
The Immaculate Conception is commonly and mistakenly taken to mean the conception of Mary's son Jesus Christ in her own womb, and the virgin birth of Jesus. These are covered by the doctrine of the Incarnation, while the Immaculate Conception deals with the conception of Mary herself, not that of her son.
The Immaculate Conception. It was Mary's closeness to Christ that made her receive God's fullness of grace to be sinless. Without God's grace, it would have been impossible for Mary to be sinless, and she too would be like the rest of humanity.
The Immaculate Conception. It’s important to understand what the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception is and what it is not. Some people think the term refers to Christ’s conception in Mary’s womb without the intervention of a human father; but that is the Virgin Birth.