Chapter Five Summary: Janie and Joe take the train from Maitland to Eatonville. When they arrive in Eatonville, both are disappointed with the town. Joe demands to talk to the mayor, but one of the men tells him that there is no mayor.
When Joe and Janie are newlyweds traveling to Eatonville, Joe s aspirations, not Janie, dominate him. Mostly he talked about plans for the town when he got there. They were bound to need somebody like him (42). Joe does not make many speeches with rhymes to [Janie] (42).
In Zora Neale Hurston s. Janie searches for love. Her second husband, Joe Starks, fails to provide her with the love and care she desires. Starks problem is that he is completely self-centered.
1 Years into the marriage (around 1924), Joe hits Janie for the first time for not preparing his dinner properly. 2  At this point, Janie realizes she no longer loves Joe and that she is saving herself for another man. 3  Years later, she insults Joe’s manhood in front of the townspeople, he hits her again.
Janie Starks: You talk a lot of brass, Joe, but there here's nothin' big about you but your voice! Hell, when you pull down yo' britches it look like you done hit the change of life! Janie Starks : [ to Joe on his deathbed ] Even now, you got to die with me being obedient, instead of just letting me love you.
Janie. Although Their Eyes Were Watching God revolves around Janie’s relationships with other people, it is first and foremost a story of Janie’s search for spiritual enlightenment and a strong sense of her own identity. When we first and last see Janie, she is alone.
Again, Janie was sullen and he resented that (75). Joe, however, views his isolation as pouring honor all over her (75). Because Joe values status, he wants to make Janie a kind of aristocratic first lady, but because she does not value status, she is resentful of Joe s efforts. Thus, their relationship suffers. Machismo causes Joe to abuse Janie, leading to the complete failure of their relationship.
The beginning of chapter five is similar to chapter four. Both begin with the fact that neither Joe Starks nor Logan Killicks speak in rhymes to Janie. This similarity foreshadows Janie's dissatisfaction with her relationship with Joe. Janie's problems with her first relationship are repeating themselves in her second.