If you are required to get a permit prior to demolition you can expect to pay $25 to $100 for each permit and could go as high as several thousands of dollars. In Chicago, for example, the cost of a permit to demolish an existing home will cost you up to $10,000 for the permit because of their local rules. Remember the total cost will increase if there is lead paint or asbestos in the home. Partial Demolition. If you have a garage that isn’t attached and has outlived its usefulness you can expect to spend between $1,000 up to $10,000 depending on the location and what it is you are tearing down.
1 Often any required permits are included in the demolition price, but if not it can be anywhere from $25-$100 depending on the size of the house, to several hundred to several thousand dollars, depending on local rules. 1 Total costs will increase if there's lead paint or asbestos removal. 2  Demolishing part of a house -- such as an attached garage, sagging porch or non-permitted addition that isn't up to code -- can be trickier because the rest of the structure needs to be unharmed.
Geographic Location. In California, the average cost to demolish a house is much higher compared to the demolition costs in Florida. Based on Hometown’s data, it’s about a $7,000 difference. Obviously, you can’t control where you live, so this is one cost factor you can’t influence. If you have an older home found to contain asbestos, this is a cost you’ll have to absorb. The asbestos abatement procedure can take up to a week for homes with extensive asbestos to as little as two days for smaller jobs. WARNING: Don’t try to reduce demolition costs by removing asbestos yourself.
Ask the asbestos abatement professional for an estimate on how much this will cost. Usually, it is around $2 or $3 per square foot. For instance, if you have a building that has 1,750 square feet and was quoted $2 per square foot for asbestos removal, the cost for this part of the demolition will cost $3,500. Add this price to the amount the professional asbestos inspector charged for the discovery of asbestos. Multiply the amount of worker's wages by the amount of time it will take for the demolition. If the workers work 8 hours a day for the 5 demolition days, there are 40 billable hours. If the hourly wages for all of your workers add up to $200 a hour, then the wages portion of the demolition will cost $8,000.
This averages out to about 5 dollars per square foot. A few more examples are outlined below. 1  Dallas, TX-A 900 sq ft wood home was demolished for a final cost of $3,000, which is about $3.30 per square ft. 2  Bayview, SC-A 1-story, 1000 sq ft cottage with no foundation and vinyl siding was demolished for $6,500. Commercial Building Demolition Cost. In Holland, Michigan a 32 unit apartment building was demolished, with each of the units measuring in at 900 sq ft. The final cost of this apartment demolition was $65,000. So the total cost per square foot was approximately $2.25.
Shopping for house demolition: 1  Often any required permits are included in the demolition price, but if not it can be anywhere from $25-$100 depending on the size of the house, to several hundred to several thousand dollars, depending on local rules. 1 Total costs will increase if there's lead paint or asbestos removal. 2  Demolishing part of a house -- such as an attached garage, sagging porch or non-permitted addition that isn't up to code -- can be trickier because the rest of the structure needs to be unharmed.
If you deconstruct a home in an affluent state such as California you can easily spend double the cost for deconstruction as you would to demolish. For example a home that would cost $12,000 to demolish will cost about $25,000 to deconstruct. The up side to deconstruction is you could see a considerable tax savings. Remember the total cost will increase if there is lead paint or asbestos in the home. Partial Demolition. If you have a garage that isn’t attached and has outlived its usefulness you can expect to spend between $1,000 up to $10,000 depending on the location and what it is you are tearing down.
The cost of demolishing a home can vary significantly based upon multiple factors. An estimated range based on nationwide averages is $4,000 to $14,000. Some of the factors influencing the cost of a house demolition include location, size of the home, whether or not asbestos is present, and more. If you have an older home found to contain asbestos, this is a cost you’ll have to absorb. The asbestos abatement procedure can take up to a week for homes with extensive asbestos to as little as two days for smaller jobs. WARNING: Don’t try to reduce demolition costs by removing asbestos yourself.
Demolishing a home and removing the foundation or basement will cost a bit more. The price ranges from $10,000 to $25,000 and depends on the materials, whether the home is one or two stories, the rates of local contractors for similar work and how easily the home is accessed. Remember the total cost will increase if there is lead paint or asbestos in the home. Partial Demolition. If you have a garage that isn’t attached and has outlived its usefulness you can expect to spend between $1,000 up to $10,000 depending on the location and what it is you are tearing down.