Earth's Surface Processes. After seeing some of the slower processes that shape Earth's landscape over time, it is important to remember that some may be much faster process. Events such as landslides, volcanoes, tsunamis and earthquakes can change a landscape in the blink of an eye. While these slope failures can happen due to natural causes such as torrential rain or earthquakes, they can also be caused by human activity such as machinery blasting that weakens the ground. 1  In the right-center of the picture to the left we see an example of slope failure leading to a landslide in India.
1. Glaciers can shape landforms by erosion and deposition.Glaciers often follow a river valley down a mountain. As they move, they change the V-shaped valley eroded by the river into a U-shaped valley. 2. 
Landslides. Movements of earth down a steep slope are called landslides. Landslides happen when hills or mountains become unstable. Slopes become unstable when the pieces of rock that form the slopes are not properly supported. Human activities, water, frost and ice can cause landslides. Unlike earthquakes and volcanic eruptions that can change landforms in a matter of hours, changes caused by weathering take thousands or millions of years. The speed at which weathering forces work depends a lot on the action of water and the temperature of the area.
A landslide, also known as a landslip, is a geological phenomenon that includes a wide range of ground movements. Rockfalls, deep failure of slopes and shallow debris flows were common. Landslides can occur in offshore, coastal and onshore environments. Although the action of gravity is the primary driving force for a landslide to occur, there are other contributing factors affecting the original slope stability. Shallow landslides can often happen in areas that have slopes with high permeable soils on top of low permeable bottom soils. The low permeable, bottom soils trap the water in the shallower, high permeable soils creating high water pressure in the top soils.
Label the center oval: “Processes that Change the Earth’s Surface.” (Teacher models this.)c. Remind students to create a new oval for each new main idea and rectangles for each new supporting detail.d. Ask students to think about what they have already learned in the Land & Water unit (STC) or Landforms unit (FOSS). Volcanoes also can occur as a result of plate movement. A volcano is a vent in the surface of the Earth through which magma (molten rock called “lava” when it reaches the surface) and associated gases, erupt. Volcano is also the term used to describe the structure produced by material ejected through the vent.
Landslides. A landslide is when a mound of earth or rock slides down from the edge of a mountain or a cliff. While these slope failures can happen due to natural causes such as torrential rain or earthquakes, they can also be caused by human activity such as machinery blasting that weakens the ground. 1  In the right-center of the picture to the left we see an example of slope failure leading to a landslide in India.
Earthquakes •Earthquakes are vibrations on Earth’s surface caused by sudden movement in Earth, often along a fault, a break in Earth’s surface. •Some earthquakes cause little damage and some cause a lot of damage. •Large earthquakes can cause landslides. Landforms and Oceans5.3 The student will demonstrate an understanding of features, processes, and changes in Earth’s land and oceans. (Earth Science)5-3.4 Explain how waves, currents, tides, and storms affect the geologic features of the ocean shore zone (including beaches, barrier islands, estuaries, and inlets).
•Landslides can cause buildings to fall, or power and gas lines to break. •Landslides even occur on the continental slope in the ocean. Volcanic eruptions •Volcanoes are mountains with openings in Earth’s crust through which magma, gases, and ash reach Earth’s surface. •Volcanoes can change Earth’s surface. Landforms and Oceans5.3 The student will demonstrate an understanding of features, processes, and changes in Earth’s land and oceans. (Earth Science)5-3.4 Explain how waves, currents, tides, and storms affect the geologic features of the ocean shore zone (including beaches, barrier islands, estuaries, and inlets).
While the causal factors involved in landslides are complex, there is a strong body of research which supports the idea that climate change will increase the number of slides. The key factor connecting climate change to landslides is water. This linkage has been evinced in both geological and hydrological research. 
Landforms and Oceans5.3 The student will demonstrate an understanding of features, processes, and changes in Earth’s land and oceans. (Earth Science) Landslides •Landslides are mass movements of land due to gravity. Landforms and Oceans5.3 The student will demonstrate an understanding of features, processes, and changes in Earth’s land and oceans. (Earth Science)5-3.4 Explain how waves, currents, tides, and storms affect the geologic features of the ocean shore zone (including beaches, barrier islands, estuaries, and inlets).