Crunches and leg raises provide best results for your question about how to reduce tummy at home. Begin by doing three sets of 20 repetitions. You could also do planks; hold your body in a push-up position on your elbows for 30 to 60 seconds. To get rid of your love handles, go in for side bends.
The weight-loss products that claim to help you burn just your belly fat are dubious in nature. To lose fat, you must put your body in a calorie deficit. This deficit, which leads to fat loss, happens when you burn a greater number of calories than you consume.
Once you reduce the fat off your stomach, you want to make sure you have conditioned the muscles to achieve toned, washboard abdominals. Perform these exercises: plank, side plank, ball crunches, knee ups, cable rotations and ball medicine ball pullover throw. Perform 2-3 sets of 8-12 repetitions of each exercise.
The only way to lose weight around your stomach is to decrease your calories and increase your exercise. You will lose weight in your stomach if you burn more calories than you take in. You could do thousands of sit ups but you still have to change diet and decrease calories.
1. Reduce calories. It’s a fairly obvious point, but if you want to reduce your waist size, you need to reduce the amount of calories you consume. Weight loss is an obvious equation: You need to burn more than you take in, and exercise burns fewer calories than many people think.
How to Reduce Tummy. Eating a balanced diet and regular exercise is the safest way to getting a flat tummy. Go in for a diet rich in proteins and minerals, avoid junk food, get enough sleep, drink plenty of water, reduce your sodium intake and see your confidence improve as your tummy gets tighter.
Your belly fat will disappear as you reduce calories and exercise. Aerobic exercise such as walking, jogging, or kick boxing can help burn calories. To tone the underlying muscle, strengthen your core with abdominal exercises such as crunches. As you lose weight, you'll be able to see the work you've done.