A day's hike through forest and wetlands and along beaches on a barrier island. Expect alligators and an infinite variety of birds. Bull Island is a major component of the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge. Accessible only by boat, it is remote and permanently sheltered from development. It is not sheltered from the elements, however. 
The island is connected to the mainland by the Bull Bridge, today a one-lane wooden road bridge (with weight and height restrictions) at the southern (Clontarf / Dollymount) end, and by a broad causeway at Raheny, approximately halfway along, and forms part of Raheny and Clontarf districts. Over the succeeding 48 years, the natural tidal effects created by the walls deepened the entry to the Liffey from 1.8 m to 4.8 m. Much of the silt now scoured from the river course was deposited on the North Bull, and a true island began to emerge, with people venturing out to the growing beach.
Bull Island Experience: There were four or five of us that walked into Bull Island in 1972. There was a path to the stage, and our goal was to get to the stage. The path got smaller and smaller as we got closer to the stage to the point that there were people laying across the path. Months after Bull Island, Duncan told a local reporter that he’d left the music business, disheartened and broke. His partner continued on, attempting to organize other rock festivals around the Midwest, but he was met with opposition almost wherever he went, tainted by the bad news emanating from the festival.
Located in Charleston County, SC. 5821 Highway 17 North. Awendaw, SC 29429. 843-928-3368. © SCGreatOutdoors. Bull Island, also known as “Bulls Island”, is an undeveloped barrier island within the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge. It was established in 1932 to help wildlife and to preserve their habitat. Numerous roads and trails provide opportunities for hiking and wildlife observation around the island
Bull Island in a Nutshell: This nature reserve and leisure beach is a paradise for birdwatchers, a good place for some beach life, a breath of very fresh air just a few minutes drive from Dublin City ... and home of the Bull Island Mouse. When Darwin was working on his Origin of Species, the Bull Island Mouse was discovered and became one of the chief witnesses to Darwin's theories-it had evolved from the field and house mice of the vicinity, adapting to island life by changing its coat to a sandy colour.
Bull Island (Irish: Oilean oileán An) tairbh or more Properly North Bull (Island: Irish oilean Oileán An) tairbh thuaidh is an island Located In dublin Bay, in ireland about 5 km long and 800, m wide lying roughly parallel to the Shore (off Clontarf), Including, Dollymount, raheny kilbarrack And. facing sutton Over the succeeding 48 years, the natural tidal effects created by the walls deepened the entry to the Liffey from 1.8 m to 4.8 m. Much of the silt now scoured from the river course was deposited on the North Bull, and a true island began to emerge, with people venturing out to the growing beach.
The Soda Pop Festival became more popularly known as Bull Island, after its 900-acre site on the Indiana-Illinois border. The ground once had been an island in the Wabash. It had joined with land on the Indiana bank to form a peninsula, but still was in Illinois. 
But if you like birding, hiking, beach combing, unmatched naturalist-guided tours through the estuary, the chance to get away from the harried mainland, bald eagles, alligators, bobcats, dolphins and otters, all within South Carolina's only Class 1 Wilderness Area. Well, then Bulls Island might just be for you. 
&#100&#117&#98&#108&#105&#110&#46&#105&#101. Bull Island is a low lying, dune covered sand spit in Dublin Bay off the coast of the city’s north side. As a National Nature reserve it is a paradise for birdwatchers and wildlife enthusiasts, a good place for walking, cycling and beach activities. It is adjacent to private golf courses The Royal Dublin and St Anne’s. Bull Island was created 200 years ago due to the construction of the north bull wall to Dublin Port. It continues to grow seaward and is a rare natural occurrence in Ireland. Its current size is 5km long by 1km wide. Its habitats include beach, dunes, mud flats, grassland and marsh
North Bull Island has the most designations of any site in the Republic of Ireland and its importance for nature conservation has been recognised since 1914, when it was listed as a Rothschild Reserve. It was the first National Bird Sanctuary, designated in 1931. Over the succeeding 48 years, the natural tidal effects created by the walls deepened the entry to the Liffey from 1.8 m to 4.8 m. Much of the silt now scoured from the river course was deposited on the North Bull, and a true island began to emerge, with people venturing out to the growing beach.