Please use this list of Japanese baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Hiyoko in Japanese origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
Hiyokoi (Japanese: ひよ恋) is a shōjo manga series written and illustrated by Moe Yukimaru. It is serialized in Shueisha 's monthly shōjo manga magazine Ribon, and had been published into fourteen tankōbon volumes. The name of the series is a pun between Hiyoko (ひよこ, which means chick) and Koi (恋, which means love). It is still ongoing. A 15-year-old girl on first year of high school. She has a height of 140 centimeters and is very shy, because she doesn't want people to pick on her. She is referred to as cute by her classmates, especially by Natsuki and Yuushin. Her best friend is Ritsuka, who she has known since kindergarten.
Kiyoko was born on April 3, 1991, in Los Angeles, California, to actor/comedian Jamie Alcroft and figure skater Sarah Kawahara. Her mother is from Canada, and is of Japanese ancestry, and her father is from Ohio, and has English and Scottish ancestry. 
Trivia Edit. 1  Saionji (西園寺) translates to “Western garden temple” while Hiyoko (日寄子) means “Child who brings forth day”. 2  Hiyoko (as 雛) is also the Japanese word for chick (as in a baby bird). 3  This association connected to Hiyoko's name matches her childish, innocent-looking appearance, as well as her hair color. While in Hope's Peak Academy, Hiyoko befriended Mahiru, Ibuki, Mikan, and Sato. During their time together, they discovered a corpse in the music room. This was later revealed to be Fuyuhiko Kuzuryu 's sister, who was murdered by Sato.
Appearance. Kyoko is a relatively tall young woman, with purple eyes and a pale complexion. She wears her lavender hair down and with a braid on the side, tied with a black ribbon. Her outfit consists of a dark purple collared jacket over a white blouse and brown tie, along with a short skirt and heeled knee-high boots. Trivia. 1  The name Kyoko (響子) is composed of 響 - echo or ringing and 子 - meaning child. 2  Her name fits her composed, quiet speech and how, during the trials, she more than once guides Makoto to conclusions she has already reached herself and lets him be the one to voice them.
Kyōko or Kyoko or Kyouko (きょうこ, キョウコ, 京子) is a very common feminine Japanese given name. Not to be confused with Kiyoko. 1 Kyoko Okudera, the main female protagonist in the Japanese horror movie Chakushin Ari 2. 2  Kyoko, a To-Oh University student in the anime and manga series Death Note (appears volumes 3 and 4, episodes 9, 10, and 15).
[ 3 syll. hi-yo-ri, hiy-ori ] The baby girl name Hiyori is pronounced as HH IY-YowRiy- †. Hiyori is largely used in Japanese and its origin is also Japanese. Hiyori's meaning is weather. Hiyori is seldom used as a baby name for girls. 
Baby Name Meanings for a Meaningful Identity. More.. Choosing a name for your baby is indeed one of the greatest moments of euphoria for parents. The arrival of a baby in the family is the culmination of many months of planning and anticipation punctuated with periods of anxiety and concern. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.