Definition. The capacity and willingness to develop, organize and manage a business venture along with any of its risks in order to make a profit. The most obvious example of entrepreneurship is the starting of new businesses. In economics, entrepreneurship combined with land, labor, natural resources and capital can produce profit. Entrepreneurial spirit is characterized by innovation and risk-taking, and is an essential part of a nation's ability to succeed in an ever changing and increasingly competitive global marketplace. Entrepreneurship can be scary because there is no guarantee that the business will work, and the entrepreneur may end up losing money for the first few years.
Entrepreneurial economics is the study of the entrepreneur and entrepreneurship within the economy. The accumulation of factors of production per se does not explain economic development. They are necessary inputs in production, but they are not sufficient for economic growth. 
A n entrepreneur is someone who organizes, manages, and assumes the risks of a business or enterprise. An entrepreneur is an agent of change. Entrepreneurship is the process of discovering new ways of combining resources. In economies with limited governments and rule of law, entrepreneurs produce wealth. Baumol’s and Boettke’s idea is consistent with the data and research linking economic freedom, which is a measure of the presence of good institutions, to both entrepreneurship and economic growth.
Definition. Someone who exercises initiative by organizing a venture to take benefit of an opportunity and, as the decision maker, decides what, how, and how much of a good or service will be produced. An entrepreneur supplies risk capital as a risk taker, and monitors and controls the business activities. The entrepreneur is usually a sole proprietor, a partner, or the one who owns the majority of shares in an incorporated venture.
Also, this trade-off and economic incentives (financial inducements, for example, the prospect of a healthy profit) more generally affect the hiring and investment decisions that entrepreneurs make when they establish and grow their businesses. • how incentives within incumbent firms stimulate entrepreneurial spin-offs and the effects those have on the broader economy; • identification of the economic determinants of growth, at the levels of the venture, the region and the economy as a whole.
The economics of entrepreneurship explains how economic conditions and incentives affect entrepreneurship, and how the actions of entrepreneurs in turn affect the broader economy. • how incentives within incumbent firms stimulate entrepreneurial spin-offs and the effects those have on the broader economy; • identification of the economic determinants of growth, at the levels of the venture, the region and the economy as a whole.
Entrepreneurship is the process of starting a business, typically a startup company offering an innovative product, process or service. The entrepreneur perceives an opportunity and often exhibits biases in taking the decision to exploit the opportunity. More recently, the term entrepreneurship has been extended to include a specific mindset (see also entrepreneurial mindset) resulting in entrepreneurial initiatives, e.g. in the form of social entrepreneurship, political entrepreneurship, or knowledge entrepreneurship.
DEFINITION of 'Entrepreneur'. An individual who, rather than working as an employee, runs a small business and assumes all the risk and reward of a given business venture, idea, or good or service offered for sale. The entrepreneur is commonly seen as a business leader and innovator of new ideas and business processes. These are the people who have the skills and initiative necessary to take good new ideas to market and make the right decisions to make the idea profitable. The reward for the risks taken is the potential economic profits the entrepreneur could earn.
In its economic sense the term entrepreneur was first introduced in the early 18th century by French economists Richard cantillion. In his earlier writings he formally defines the entrepreneur as the agent who buys means of production at a certain price in order to combine them into a new product. The origin of the word entrepreneur was derived from the French verb entreprendre.The word entreprendre in French means Frenchmen who organized military expeditions’ in the early 1600 .The meaning of this word was also used in 1700 to mean architects and contractors of public works.
Term entrepreneurship Definition: One of the four basic categories of resources, or factors of production (the other three are labor, capital, and land). Entrepreneurship is a special sort of human effort that takes on the risk of bringing labor, capital, and land together and organizing production. 