Regions. Farmer pay varies by state and region. The top five states for annual mean farmer wages in 2011 were Kansas, at $95,000; Washington, at $87,000; California, at $84,000; Iowa, at $82,000; and Minnesota, at $78,000. Among cities, Des Moines, Iowa had the highest farmer wages, with a mean salary of $120,000 a year. 
Now, let us discuss in detail what do farmers do. 1. The most basic thing that the farmers do is grow vegetables and raise animals. Though it may seem like a very mere job, the truth is that it is the most important job in an economy. No man can survive without food. Farmers supply in an economy the most important things-vegetable, meat and milk. 
Some farmers work primarily with crops and vegetables, whereas other farmers and ranchers handle livestock. Farmers, ranchers, and other agricultural managers run establishments that produce crops, livestock, and dairy products. Farmers, ranchers, and other agricultural managers also negotiate with banks and other credit lenders to get financing, because they must buy seed, livestock, and equipment before they have products to sell. Farmers and ranchers own and operate mainly family-owned farms.
These hardworking people are called farmers! Some farmers raise animals like cows, chickens and fish. Other farmers raise plants like fruits, vegetables and grains. There are even farmers who grow plants for people to enjoy in their gardens! Farmers make a living by selling their plants, animals and animal products. Being a farmer is hard work! Farmers care for their animals by giving them food and water. They plant and harvest crops. They make sure their plants and animals stay healthy. They also take care of the machines that help them farm, like tractors and plows.
A farmer might own the farmed land or might work as a labourer on land owned by others, but in advanced economies, a farmer is usually a farm owner, while employees of the farm are known as farm workers, or farmhands. Dirt farmer is an American colloquial term for a practical farmer, or one who farms his own land. In developed nations, a farmer (as a profession) is usually defined as someone with an ownership interest in crops or livestock, and who provides land or management in their production.
A farmer is a person engaged in agriculture, raising living organisms for food or raw materials. The term usually applies to people who do some combination of raising field crops, orchards, vineyards, poultry, or other livestock. 
However, in the not so distant past a farmer was a person who promotes or improves the growth of (a plant, crop, etc.) by labor and attention, land or crops or raises animals (as livestock or fish). Dirt farmer is an American colloquial term for a practical farmer, or one who farms his own land. In developed nations, a farmer (as a profession) is usually defined as someone with an ownership interest in crops or livestock, and who provides land or management in their production.
A farmer (also called an agriculturer) is a person engaged in agriculture, raising living organisms for food or raw materials. The term usually applies to people who do some combination of raising field crops, orchards, vineyards, poultry, or other livestock. Dirt farmer is an American colloquial term for a practical farmer, or one who farms his own land. In developed nations, a farmer (as a profession) is usually defined as someone with an ownership interest in crops or livestock, and who provides land or management in their production.