Clark felt that she played child parts for too long. In 1946 Clark launched her television career with an appearance on a BBC variety show, Cabaret Cartoons, which led to her being signed to host her own afternoon series, titled simply Petula Clark. Pet's Parlour followed in 1949. Clark's professional career began as an entertainer on BBC Radio during World War II. During the 1950s she started recording in French and having international success in both French and English, with such songs as The Little Shoemaker, Baby Lover, With All My Heart and  Prends Mon Coeur . cœur
While in France, Petula Clark worked for a short time as a secretary at the Firestone offices. Ranked #85 on VH1's 100 Greatest Women of Rock N Roll. She was considered for roles in the films Paradise, Hawaiian Style (1966), Valley of the Dolls (1967) and Airport (1970). After a move to France in 1960, having fallen for a Frenchman, she had hit records all over Europe ,and by 1966 with such hits as Downtown and my Love having topped the American charts, became a truly international star. Petula Sally Olwen Clark was born in West Ewell Surrey, England on November 15, 1932. Petula made her first broadcast as a singer for the BBC Radio Overseas Service in October 1942, and became an overnight star on BBC National Radio in December 1942 at the age of 10. After many radio shows for the BBC during World War 2, Petula made her film debut in Medal for the General in 1945
Petula Clark, 80, is releasing a new album. Petula Clark has been a star all her life. She started singing at seven, made her radio debut at nine, appeared at the Royal Albert Hall at 11, and has sold 70 million records with hits including Downtown, I Couldn't Live Without Your Love and Don't Sleep In The Subway. Petula Clark marrying Claude Wolff at their wedding eception in Primrose Cottage, Lodsworth near Petworth, Sussex, in 1961. Petula had always had an eye for a good-looking man. In the early 1950s she flirted with Sean Connery, then a chorus boy in the stage musical South Pacific.
Petula Clark on location filming Finian's Rainbow with her family, husband Claude Wolff and daughters Kate Wolff and Barbara Wolff in 1967. 'Emotionally, it was a real wrench every time I had to leave, and I think the whole sad business of saying goodbye to each other so often stayed with the children for many years. Petula Clark marrying Claude Wolff at their wedding eception in Primrose Cottage, Lodsworth near Petworth, Sussex, in 1961. Petula had always had an eye for a good-looking man. In the early 1950s she flirted with Sean Connery, then a chorus boy in the stage musical South Pacific.
Petula Clark was a star at the age of 11. She starred in the music halls and on BBC radio singing for the troops during WWII. She was a child star in a series of British films from the end of WWII through to the early 1950s,and by 1954 was having hit records. 
In November 2006 Clark was the subject of a BBC Four documentary titled Petula Clark: Blue Lady and appeared with Michael Ball and Tony Hatch in a concert at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane broadcast by BBC Radio the following month. Clark's professional career began as an entertainer on BBC Radio during World War II. During the 1950s she started recording in French and having international success in both French and English, with such songs as The Little Shoemaker, Baby Lover, With All My Heart and  Prends Mon Coeur . cœur
Petula Clark was a star at the age of 11. She starred in the music halls and on BBC radio singing for the troops during WWII. She was a child star in a series of British films from the end of WWII through to the early 1950s,and by 1954 was having hit records. After a move to France in 1960, having fallen for a Frenchman, she had hit records all over Europe ,and by 1966 with such hits as Downtown and my Love having topped the American charts, became a truly international star. Petula Sally Olwen Clark was born in West Ewell Surrey, England on November 15, 1932. Petula made her first broadcast as a singer for the BBC Radio Overseas Service in October 1942, and became an overnight star on BBC National Radio in December 1942 at the age of 10. After many radio shows for the BBC during World War 2, Petula made her film debut in Medal for the General in 1945
Now: What a difference a decade makes, Petula Clark looking great at 80. Turning a year older is probably little cause for concern when you’ve already managed to turn back the clock. And as Petula Clark celebrated her 80th birthday yesterday, it certainly looked as though she had rewound the years. With her smooth, taut skin and a stylish haircut reminiscent of her days on stage, the Downtown singer appeared astonishingly fresh and youthful
Petula Clark – $10 Million. The Celebrity Net Worth website lists 80 year-old Petula Clark as being worth $10 million. Clark has now been singing for 74 years. When I think of Petula Clark I think of her hit song Downtown. Connie Francis – $25 Million. The net worth of Connie Francis is listed at $25 million despite the fact that she only had three No.1 hits in her 70 year career. The 74-year-old Francis had her first No.1 hit in My Heart’s Got A Mind Of Its Own in 1960.