The San Andreas fault is actually a Strike-Slip fault, which means that the movement of the plates is a side-to-side movement past each other. The Pacific plate, relatively speaking, is moving north and the North American plate is moving south. The San Andreas Fault is a continental transform fault. It is around eight hundred and ten miles long and forms the boundary between the Pacific and the North American lithosp … heric plates. In California this crack in the crust of the earth is visible.
The San Andreas Fault—made infamous by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake—is a strike-slip fault. This means two fault blocks are moving past each other horizontally. Strike-slip faults tend to occur along the boundaries of plates that are sliding past each other. This is the case for the San Andreas, which runs along the boundary of the Pacific and North American plates. After a quake along a strike-slip fault, railroad tracks and fences can show bends and shifts
The San Andreas fault is one of only a few examples of a transform boundary between two tectonic plates that is exposed on a continent. Some other continental transforms are the Alpine fault in New Zealand and the Dead Sea Transform fault system in the Middle East. The remainder is expressed by displacement along other, subparallel faults such as the Imperial and the San Jacinto fault zones in southern California. The San Andreas fault zone is a transform boundary between two tectonic plates, the North America plate and the Pacific plate.
The San Andreas Fault is a continental transform fault. It is around eight hundred and ten miles long and forms the boundary between the Pacific and the North American lithosp … heric plates. In California this crack in the crust of the earth is visible. The San Andreas Fault is an example of a transform boundary in which plates slide past each other. This type of fault may also be known as a strike slip fault. During this pla … te motion, lithosphere is neither created nor destroyed.
Characteristics of the San Andreas Fault Zone. The surface expression of the San Andreas transform fault zone is a right-lateral strike-slip fault. The fault zone is approximately 1300 km long and is made up of three major segments, each with characteristic types, magnitudes and frequencies of earthquake activity. The remainder is expressed by displacement along other, subparallel faults such as the Imperial and the San Jacinto fault zones in southern California. The San Andreas fault zone is a transform boundary between two tectonic plates, the North America plate and the Pacific plate.
The San Andreas Fault is an example of a transform boundary in which plates slide past each other. This type of fault may also be known as a strike slip fault. During this plate motion, lithosphere is neither created nor destroyed. Shear stress causes the undeformed block of rock to experience tearing and smearing. The San Andreas Fault is a continental transform fault. It is around eight hundred and ten miles long and forms the boundary between the Pacific and the North American lithosp … heric plates. In California this crack in the crust of the earth is visible.
A few, however, occur on land. The San Andreas fault zone in California is a transform fault that connects the East Pacific Rise, a divergent boundary to the south, with the South Gorda -- Juan de Fuca -- Explorer Ridge, another divergent boundary to the north. My google search produced these results: The San Andreas is a classic ``Strike Slip'' fault: the two sides (for the most part) move past each other horizontally.
Map of the San Andreas Fault, showing relative motion. The San Andreas Fault is a continental transform fault that extends roughly 1300 km (810 miles) through California. It forms the tectonic boundary between the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate, and its motion is right-lateral strike-slip (horizontal). 