Conclusions: In adult body CT, dose to an organ fully encompassed by the primary radiation beam can be estimated from CTDI vol using a protocol-independent conversion coefficient. However, fully encompassed organs only account for 50% ± 19% of k factor and 46% ± 24% of q factor. Dose received by partially encompassed organs is also substantial. To estimate effective dose and risk index from DLP, it is necessary to use conversion coefficients specific to the anatomical region examined.
The brain uses loads and loads of energy which is a major challenge for your metabolism-the organ which uses most energy prefers to run on the fuel that can be stored worst. Fatty acids can be converted to ketones, which can partly power the brain. More about the brain later, it is not that simple.
Conversion disorder is a type of somatoform disorder where physical symptoms or signs are present that cannot be explained by a medical condition. Very importantly, unlike factitious disorders and malingering, the symptoms of somatoform disorders are not intentional or under conscious control of the patient.
Conversion disorder is a mental condition in which a person has blindness, paralysis, or other nervous system (neurologic) symptoms that cannot be explained by medical evaluation.
Conversion disorder symptoms may appear suddenly after a stressful event or trauma, whether physical or psychological. Signs and symptoms that affect movement function may include: 1  Weakness or paralysis. 2  Abnormal movement, such as tremors or difficulty walking. 3  Loss of balance.
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose.
Sometimes people with conversion disorder have tremors or symptoms that resemble fainting spells or seizures * . There also may be loss of feeling in various parts of the body, or loss of the sense of smell, and symptoms may occur together.
Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose.