In dystopian literature, we usually find a world where the population is massively controlled by the government or a power of some sort (military, etc) in everything they can and can't do. A dystopia is a world that is imperfect. A dystopian world is unpleasant and is typically either under the control of a totalitarian government or has experienced a mass environmental disaster.
Definition of Dystopia. Dystopia is a world in which everything is imperfect and everything goes terribly wrong. Dystopian literature shows us a nightmarish image about what might happen in the near future. Usually the main themes of dystopian works are rebellion, oppression, revolutions, wars, overpopulation and disasters. On the other hand, utopia is a perfect world exactly opposite to dystopia. 
See also: Utopian and dystopian fiction. A dystopia (from the Greek δυσ- and τόπος, alternatively, cacotopia, kakotopia, or simply anti-utopia) is a community or society that is undesirable or frightening. Some of the most famous examples are 1984 and Brave New World. Dystopias are often characterized by dehumanization, totalitarian governments, environmental disaster, or other characteristics associated with a cataclysmic decline in society.
(1). Here is more information on the characteristics of dystopian society in literature from the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE): Utopia: A place, state, or condition that is ideally perfect in respect of politics, laws, customs, and conditions. 
In dystopian literature, the novelist uses the text to interrogate the idyllic posture of the pre-20th century utopianism. This is due to certain events in the contemporary world, including both cold and violent wars; revolutions or totalitarianism, like Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Russia. The most popular definition of dystopian literature is that it is anti-Utopian. The genre challenges utopia's fundamental assumption of human perfectibility, arguing humanity's inherent flaws negate the possibility of constructing perfect societies.
Dystopian literature is the opposite of utopian literature. It is a incredibly unperfect world, where usually the government is controlling every decision of the general public. A modern example could be an extreme form of communism where everyone goes along with it. A dystopia is a world that is imperfect. A dystopian world is unpleasant and is typically either under the control of a totalitarian government or has experienced a mass environmental disaster.
Welcome to the world of dystopian literature! Dystopias often start with an illusion of a perfect society, or UTOPIA. But as the story progresses, the reader and characters both realize that this fictional world is the opposite of perfect. This presentation chronicles the development of dystopian literature and describes some of its main characteristics.
Transcript of Dystopian Literature. Dystopias often focus on a current social, technological, or governmental trend and show us what would happen if this trend were taken way too far. It’s basically an exaggerated “worst-case scenario.” This allows the dystopian story to make a criticism of a trend in our real world. This presentation chronicles the development of dystopian literature and describes some of its main characteristics.