Atavism is the tendency to revert to ancestral type. In biology, an atavism is an evolutionary throwback, such as traits reappearing which had disappeared generations before. Atavisms can occur in several ways. A number of traits can vary as a result of shortening of the fetal development of a trait (neoteny) or by prolongation of the same. In such a case, a shift in the time a trait is allowed to develop before it is fixed can bring forth an ancestral phenotype.
atavistic. Etymology: L, atavus, ancestor. pertaining to the tendency for a genetic trait of a remote ancestor to be expressed in an individual as a result of a chance recombination of genes. Hayward sought his acquaintance; but Philip had an unfortunate trait: from shyness or from some atavistic inheritance of the cave-dweller, he always disliked people on first acquaintance; and it was not till he became used to them that he got over his first impression.
Medical Definition of ATAVISM. 1. : recurrence in an organism of a trait or character typical of an ancestral form and usually due to genetic recombination. 2. : an individual or character manifesting atavism: throwback. Definition of ATAVISM. 1. a: recurrence in an organism of a trait or character typical of an ancestral form and usually due to genetic recombination. 2. : one that manifests atavism: throwback. — at·a·vis·tic \ˌa-tə-ˈvis-tik\ adjective
In such a case, a shift in the time a trait is allowed to develop before it is fixed can bring forth an ancestral phenotype. In the social sciences, atavism is a cultural tendency—for example, people in the modern era reverting to the ways of thinking and acting of a former time. During the interval between the acceptance of evolution and the rise of modern understanding of genetics, atavism was used to account for the reappearance in an individual of a trait after several generations of absence.
1 This atavistic fear of bodily hair is entirely compatible with a religion that sought to separate man from his animal origins. 2  His fate evokes the atavistic fear of Nature's fury that has been with us since the dawn of history. 1 His fate evokes the atavistic fear of Nature's fury that has been with us since the dawn of history. 2  If there was one striking thing about this performance, it is that it reminded the audience that live theatre is probably our most ancient art, which is why something deep and atavistic thrills when the curtain goes up.
In the social sciences, atavism is a cultural tendency—for example, people in the modern era reverting to the ways of thinking and acting of a former time. The word atavism is derived from the Latin atavus. An atavus is a great-great-great-grandfather or, more generally, an ancestor. A number of traits can vary as a result of shortening of the fetal development of a trait (neoteny) or by prolongation of the same. In such a case, a shift in the time a trait is allowed to develop before it is fixed can bring forth an ancestral phenotype.
atavistic adjective. › ​happening because of a very ​old ​habit from a ​long ​time ago in ​human ​history, not because of a ​conscious ​decision or because it is ​necessary now: an atavistic ​fear of the ​dark. atavism noun [U] uk /ˈaet.ˈæt.ə.vɪ/ zəm /us-/. ˈaet̬ [ˈæt̬] noun /u.uk.ˈaet.ˈæt/ ə /vɪ-/. zəm us ˈaet̬ ˈæt̬ › ​happening because of a very ​old ​habit from a ​long ​time ago in ​human ​history, not because of a ​conscious ​decision or because it is ​necessary now: an atavistic ​fear of the ​dark. atavism noun [U] uk /ˈaet.ˈæt.ə.vɪ/ zəm /us-/.
John Barleycorn by London, Jack View in context. Hayward sought his acquaintance; but Philip had an unfortunate trait: from shyness or from some atavistic inheritance of the cave-dweller, he always disliked people on first acquaintance; and it was not till he became used to them that he got over his first impression. 