Saffron Walden is a delightful medieval market town located in north-west Essex and just 15 miles to the south of Cambridge. Tucked away in the back streets of pretty Saffron Walden, this lovingly restored Grade II gem consists of seven interlinked gardens laid out in the nineteenth century, and features a formal knot garden, kitchen garden and a popular hedge maze. Find out more.
Visit the Saffron Walden website. Saffron Walden has many interesting historic buildings. At the heart lies St Mary’s Church, the largest parish church in Essex. Fine examples of elaborate moulded plasterwork (pargetting), can be seen on the Old Sun Inn and the houses in Castle Street & Bridge Street. Saffron Walden Museum is of particular interest. Visit historic Saffron Walden and its unique maze heritage. Places to visit and things to do. Places to stay. Events taking place in the area. Saffron Walden is a delightful medieval market town located in north-west Essex and just 15 miles to the south of Cambridge.
Saffron Walden is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1977 by Alan Haselhurst, a Conservative. Three medium-sized market towns, Saffron Walden, Dunmow and Halstead are in the constituency. All three have historic links, and are busy and regionally visitor-drawing towns in the South East.
For all of your construction needs in Saffron Walden, Cambridge or rural Essex, Artisan Builders is here for you. Based between Cambridge and Chelmsford in Saffron Walden, Artisan Builders are in the perfect position to work on any building projects in the rural areas of Essex. 
Archeological evidence suggests a continuous settlement on or near the site of Saffron Walden from at least the Neolithic period. It is believed that a small Romano-British settlement and fort – possibly in the area around Abbey Lane – existed as an outpost of the much larger settlement of Cestreforda to the north. Saffron Walden is accessed from junction 8 of the M11 travelling from London (a distance of approximately 15 miles (24 km)) and from junction 10 travelling from the Cambridge direction (8 miles (13 km)). Stansted Airport is some 15 miles (24 km) from the town, while Luton Airport is 43 miles (69 km) away.
Saffron Walden in Essex, showing boundaries used from 1918 to 1950. Since a by-election in 1977, this safe Conservative seat has been represented by Sir Alan Haselhurst. Three medium-sized market towns, Saffron Walden, Dunmow and Halstead are in the constituency. All three have historic links, and are busy and regionally visitor-drawing towns in the South East.
The constituency is by far the largest and most rural in Essex, and covers the entire north-west corner of the county-an area of almost 400 square miles (1,000 km 2). It borders Hertfordshire and Cambridgeshire, whilst also extending deep into the middle of Essex near Chelmsford. Three medium-sized market towns, Saffron Walden, Dunmow and Halstead are in the constituency. All three have historic links, and are busy and regionally visitor-drawing towns in the South East.
The market was moved from nearby Newport to Saffron Walden during de Mandeville's tenure increasing the town's influence and the town's Tuesday market operated from 1295. The town’s first charter was granted in around 1300, when the town was known as Chepyng Walden, meaning Market Walden. Saffron Walden is accessed from junction 8 of the M11 travelling from London (a distance of approximately 15 miles (24 km)) and from junction 10 travelling from the Cambridge direction (8 miles (13 km)). Stansted Airport is some 15 miles (24 km) from the town, while Luton Airport is 43 miles (69 km) away.
Saffron Walden is a delightful medieval market town located in north-west Essex. It has a rich heritage of old buildings, including St Mary’s Church, the largest and one of the most beautiful parish churches in Essex. Visit historic Saffron Walden and its unique maze heritage. Places to visit and things to do. Places to stay. Events taking place in the area. Saffron Walden is a delightful medieval market town located in north-west Essex and just 15 miles to the south of Cambridge.