Your brother or sister should use USCIS Form I-765 to apply for a work permit (see Obtaining a Work Permit for more information). Checking the Status of a Green Card Application for My Brother or Sister You may check the status of your application or case online, by phone, or by contacting an appropriate USCIS office.
If your brother or sister is outside the United States when an immigrant visa number becomes available, your brother or sister will be notified to go to the local U.S. Consulate to complete the processing for a Green Card (immigrant visa).
A: Yes, there is an age requirement to sponsor a U.S. citizen's brothers and sisters immigration to United Stats. If you are a U.S. citizen and at least 21 years old, you are eligible to petition for an immigrant visa for your brother or sister to live and work permanently in the United States.
Eligibility Requirements. In order to file an Immigrant Petition for your brother or sister, you must be a U.S. Citizen and at least 21 years of age. If you are a Lawful Permanent Resident, you are not eligible to sponsor your brothers or sisters for Green Card Status.
As the sponsor of your brother or sister, you must show that your household income is sufficient to support your family and your brother or sister at 125% or more above the U.S. poverty level for your household size.
However, they can apply for immigrant visas with her, when her place in line is reached. On the other hand, a separate relative petition must be filed on behalf of each person who qualifies as your direct relative, including your children. To sponsor your mother and father, file a separate petition for each.
If your brother or sister is in the U.S. and has applied to adjust to permanent resident status (by filing. Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status), they are eligible to apply for a work permit while their case is pending.
A: To start the immigrant visa application process for U.S. citizen's brother or sister, the U.S. citizen will need to file an immigrant visa petition using USCIS Form I-130, with the proof of U.S. citizenship and the proof of siblings.
A: To help you filing U.S. Green Card petition for your brother or sister, we provide the high quality and case-proven Complete Do-It-Yourself Package of Green Card Application for U.S. Citizen's Brother or Sister , based on our extensive and practical immigration experience.