Since out-of-state service can only be used to qualify for service retirement, you should not purchase it if you will qualify for service retirement without it. Group I members qualify for service retirement at age 60 or with 30 years of service, whichever comes first. 1 At the time the service is claimed, you must establish either all the years of out-of-state service that you have requested or the number of years which you expect to need to meet the 30 year retirement requirement. 2  The service and salary must be certified by the employer or state in which the service was rendered.
Texas Teacher Retirement System (TRS) participants may buy back years of refunded system service credit. According to the TRS Benefits Handbook, credit for buying back years of service is used to establish early retirement eligibility and to calculate retirement benefits. Texas Teacher Retirement System (TRS) participants may buy back years of refunded system service credit. According to the TRS Benefits Handbook, ...
To use purchased service credit in calculating service retirement benefits, a member must complete the purchase by the effective date of retirement or by the last day of the month in which the member submits a retirement application, whichever is later. Service credit also affects the amount of a service or disability retirement benefit you may receive when you are eligible for retirement. TRS members can build service credit in two ways: 1  Earning membership service credit through employment in Texas public education. ( 2 See the TRS Benefits Handbook (pdf) .).
8. When I retire, what will my monthly benefit be and how will it be calculated? You can use our online service to estimate your benefit or, if you are within two years of retirement, please call us at (360) 664-7000 or 1-800-547-6657 to request a written estimate. 
The cost to purchase Non Qualifying Part Time (NQPT) service and most types of non-school or non-state service credit is the full actuarial cost. In other words, when you purchase service credit, you are paying an amount for the purchase that will result with you self-funding your future PSERS retirement benefit. On the other hand, if over the course of your career you experience a salary increase greater than 5.5% per year, it is possible that the benefits you would receive as a result of purchasing the service, could be greater than the cost to you.
In addition, remember that it may not be worth your while buying extra years if you stand to get means tested pension credit when you retire or if even after you bought the years you still will not have the minimum required to qualify for any state pension. In terms of how much better off you could be, think of it this way; if you are 12 years short of the full term and are due to reach state pension age in 2009 you could pay £5,052. For a woman this would mean an extra annual income of £1,444 or £1,286 for men.
She will receive a retirement check for the rest of her life when she retires. If the amount of her check (the difference from paying the time back) times her life expectancy (the IRS really has a life expectancy for humans on earth) equals more than the $55, 000, then it is worth it. If it's only going to make a small difference, then tell her to keep the money. Also keep in mind that if she has any type of IRA or deferred comp, she can withdraw money to pay back that time. Source(s): I work for MS Retirement systems. KG · 8 years ago
Out-of-State Service Credit If you have out-of-state service in a public school system or college and you also have five years of TRS membership service credit, you may be eligible to purchase out-of-state service credit. First, you must have a minimum of 10 years of membership service credit for actual service in the Texas public schools. If purchased before retire-ment, withdrawn, unreported (including substitute), and up to five years of military or USERRA service can be counted toward the 10 year minimum.
Yes. You will start a new account with ERS if you come back to work for the State. You can also purchase the service time that you withdrew. You must have your first retirement deduction taken from your paycheck and become an ERS member again before you can buy the service time. 