Artery: A vessel that carries blood high in oxygen content away from the heart to the farthest reaches of the body. Since blood in arteries is usually full of oxygen, the hemoglobin in the red blood cells is oxygenated. The resultant form of hemoglobin (oxyhemoglobin) is what makes arterial blood look bright red. 
The term Atherosclerosis literally means hardening from atheroma. In a he … althy person, the artiers have walls that are muscular, smooth and elastic enough to allow for variations in blood pressure, which allows the blood to pass through freely. This is a morbid condition. The hardening of arteries within the brain is a form of arteriosclerosis, which in most cases is atherosclerosis. The buildup of hardened scar tissue within the brain can also be caused by the demyelinating autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis.
Noun. 1. hardening of the arteries-sclerosis of the arterial walls. arterial sclerosis, arteriosclerosis, coronary-artery disease, induration of the arteries. atherosclerosis, coronary artery disease-a stage of arteriosclerosis involving fatty deposits (atheromas) inside the arterial walls, thus narrowing the arteries. 
Atherosclerosis (also known as arteriosclerotic vascular disease or ASVD) is a specific form of arteriosclerosis in which an artery wall thickens as a result of invasion and accumulation of white blood cells (WBCs) (foam cell) and proliferation of intimal smooth muscle cell creating a fibrofatty plaque. 
Atherosclerosis is the build up of a waxy plaque on the inside of blood vessels. In Greek, athere means gruel, and skleros means hard. Atherosclerosis is often called arteriosclerosis. Arteriosclerosis (from the Greek arteria, meaning artery) is a general term for hardening of the arteries. Arteriosclerosis can occur in several forms, including atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis that affects only the inner lining of an artery. It is characterized by plaque deposits that block the flow of blood. Plaque is made of fatty substances, cholesterol, waste products from the cells, calcium, and fibrin, a stringy material that helps clot blood.
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Arteries. A blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to tissues and organs in the body. Blood Vessels. Tubes that carry blood to and from all parts of the body. The three main types of blood vessels are arteries, capillaries, and veins. Heart. The hollow, muscular organ that maintains the circulation of the blood.
The meaning of the medical term atherosclerosis is: hardening of fatty plaque (deposited on the arterial wall); Atherosclerosis is a common arterial disorder in which deposits of yellowish plaques of cholesterol, lipids, and cellular debris are formed in the walls of arteries. 
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of hardening of the arteries): atherosclerosis; coronary artery disease (a stage of arteriosclerosis involving fatty deposits (atheromas) inside the arterial walls). arteriosclerosis obliterans (a stage of arteriosclerosis involving closure of blood vessels). 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Digitalis. Confidence votes 6.9K. Hardening of the arteries due to cholesterol plaques is called atherosclerosis or arteriosclerosis. The term Atherosclerosis literally means hardening from atheroma . In a healthy person, the artiers have walls that are muscular, smooth and elastic enough to allow for variations in blood pressure, which allows the blood to pass through freely. Arteriorrhaphy is the medical term for suture of an artery. This is  when a surgeon will close up an artery. If an artery was severed,  they would reattach both sides of the … blood vessel walls, like  stitching up a deep cut. A related term, angiorrhaphy, means suture  of any vessel.
An artery is made up of several layers: an inner lining called the endothelium, an elastic membrane that allows the artery to expand and contract, a layer of smooth muscle, and a layer of connective tissue. Arteriosclerosis is a broad term that includes a hardening of the inner and middle layers of the artery. It can be caused by normal aging, by high blood pressure, and by diseases such as diabetes. Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis that affects only the inner lining of an artery. It is characterized by plaque deposits that block the flow of blood. Plaque is made of fatty substances, cholesterol, waste products from the cells, calcium, and fibrin, a stringy material that helps clot blood.