In the summer, the preferred direction for a ceiling fan to spin in is a counterclockwise direction as you look up at the fan blades. You will feel a cool downward airflow as you stand directly under the fan. In the winter, the preferred direction for a ceiling fan to spin in is a clockwise direction.
Today, most ceiling fans include remote controls or wall controls that adjust the direction in which the fan blades rotate, which makes reversing your ceiling fan as simple as pressing a button. Press the forward button to set your ceiling fan to spin counterclockwise for the summer.
During the summer you want the fan to blow air straight down, so your ceiling fan needs to run in a counter clockwise direction (as you look up at it).
The ceiling fan direction in winter should be rotating clockwise or reverse. Warm air rises and gets trapped near the ceiling so when the ceiling fan direction is in reverse mode it circulates the warm air from the ceiling to the floor helping take the chill out of the air.
Summer Settings. Most ceiling fans have a means of changing the fan's direction. This adjustment may be found on a wall switch, a remote control, or on the fan itself on its motor housing. Select forward, which indicates the normal operating direction of the fan.
In the summer, ceiling fan blades should rotate in a counterclockwise or forward direction to create cool downward airflow. In the winter, fan blades should rotate in a clockwise or reverse direction to redistribute warm air, which naturally rises to the top of the ceiling. Changing the direction of a ceiling fan is as easy pressing a button, flipping a switch, or tugging a pull chain.
The short answer is: “In the Winter, your ceiling fan should be turning clockwise (reverse). In the Summer, your ceiling fan should be spinning counter clockwise (forward).”. Ceiling Fan Direction Illustration Chart. The above animated ceiling fan is spin
The best way to circulate the warm air is to reverse the direction of the ceiling fan so it spins in a clockwise direction. This will redistribute any warm air trapped near the top of the ceiling. If you set your ceiling fan for summer (i.e. to spin counterclockwise), you will actually create a wind chill effect).