How long does the surgery for removing a gallbladder take. Laparoscopic gallbladder surgery to remove the gallbladder or stones usually takes about 2-1/2 hours. 
Laparoscopic gallbladder surgery requires a shorter hospital stay; usually the patient is home within 24 hours. In some cases you may need to stay overnight. In contrast, patients undergoing open cholecystectomy are often in the hospital three to seven days. 
You will need general anesthesia for this surgery, which usually lasts 2 hours or less. After surgery, bile flows from the liver (where it is made) through the common bile duct and into the small intestine. Because the gallbladder has been removed, the body can no longer store bile between meals. What To Think About. Recovery is much faster and less painful after laparoscopic surgery than after open surgery. 1  The hospital stay after laparoscopic surgery is shorter than after open surgery. 2  People generally go home the same day or the next day, compared with 2 to 4 days or longer for open surgery.
You may have gallbladder surgery as an outpatient, or you may stay 1 or 2 days in the hospital. Most people can return to their normal activities in 7 to 10 days. People who have laparoscopic gallbladder surgery are sore for about a week. But in 2 to 3 weeks they have much less discomfort than people who have open surgery. No special diets or other precautions are needed after surgery. What To Think About. Recovery is much faster and less painful after laparoscopic surgery than after open surgery. 1  The hospital stay after laparoscopic surgery is shorter than after open surgery. 2  People generally go home the same day or the next day, compared with 2 to 4 days or longer for open surgery.
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a procedure in which the gallbladder is removed by laparoscopic techniques. Laparoscopic surgery also referred to as minimally invasive surgery describes the performance of surgical procedures with the assistance of a video camera and several thin instruments. 
Timing of Surgery. Cholecystectomy may be performed within days to weeks after hospitalization for an acute gallbladder attack, depending on the severity of the condition. 1  Emergency gallbladder removal within 24 - 48 hours is warranted in about 20% of patients with acute cholecystitis. 
You will be in the operating room for about 2-5 hours with at least another 1 - 2 hours in the recovery room afterwards. Your hospital stay will depend on the extent of your surgery and may be up to 7-10 days in length if the surgery is extensive. 1 Your incision(s) will be watertight in about 24-36 hours allowing you to shower carefully if you don't have any plastic drainage tubes in place. 2  The incision normally heals fully within a few weeks. 3  There is also swelling and a feeling of firmness under the incision that may last for a couple of months.
Surgery to remove the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is the treatment of choice for gallstones that cause moderate to severe pain or other symptoms. Symptoms usually do not return after the gallbladder has been removed. In a small number of cases, surgery may be done to prevent complications of gallstones. Laparoscopic surgery is often the best method to remove the gallbladder. Open gallbladder surgery requires a longer recovery period and causes more pain. Surgery may be done for: 1  Gallstones that cause symptoms.
Recovering from a gallbladder removal. Recovery after keyhole surgery to remove your gallbladder (laparoscopic cholecystectomy) is usually quick. Most people are able to eat and drink and leave hospital on the same day as the surgery. In some cases you may be advised to stay overnight and go home the next day. After open surgery, you will have to stay three to five days in hospital and your recovery time will be longer. Typically, it takes around four to six weeks to recover fully from the effects of open surgery. 