Bougainvillea. Bougainvillea is one of the showiest vines you can grow. The large plant practically smothers itself in big clusters of papery bracts. These bracts appear in bold shades of pink, lavender, red, gold, or orange and create a display you can see a block away.
Bougainvillea spectabilis is a large climber with distinctive curved thorns, and hair on stems and leaves. The bracts are crinkled, fairly large, egg-shaped, and possess colors in the rose, rusty-red, and purple. Flowers are cream in color, slender, with very hairy tubes.
The bougainvillea plant is an evergreen vine that may be semi-evergreen in cooler parts of it range, where it may drop its leaves for a short period during winter. Its canes have abundant pointed thorns and grow to heights of 15 feet or more when grown outdoors under ideal conditions.
Bougainvillea (/ˌbuːɡɨnˈvɪliə/ or /ˌboʊɡɨnˈvɪliə/) is a genus of thorny ornamental vines, bushes, and trees with flower-like spring leaves near its flowers. Different authors accept between four and 18 species in the genus.
Bougainvillea is a sun-lover and it will grow best in a full sun position, in the open, facing due North (in the southern hemisphere) and due South (in the northern hemisphere). Bougainvillea needs at least 5 hours of full sun every day to thrive. 3. Choose a place with rich, well-drained soil.
As a profuse bloomer, bougainvillea is most striking during the winter, when it is at its peak and few other plants are able to provide color. Although it is frost-sensitive and hardy in zones 9b and 10, bougainvillea can be used as a houseplant or hanging basket in cooler climates.
Bougainvillea is a tropical vining shrub that comes in a wide array of bright and fanciful colors. The flowers are actually modified leaves, called bracts, that are long-lasting and bright. The colorful bracts outshine the plant's true (but tiny) flower, much like a poinsettia.
Bougainvillea plants are heavy bloomers that climb and spread. Few plants are better choices for a fence, trellis or other support than a bougainvillea (Bougainvillea spp.). A spreading, woody vine, the bougainvillea plant is a powerhouse bloomer that covers itself in bright color for most of the growing season.