Phenylketonuria (pronounced fen-l-kee-toh-NOOR-ee-uh), often called PKU, is an inherited disorder that that can cause intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDDs) if not treated. In PKU, the body can't process a portion of a protein called phenylalanine, which is in all foods containing protein. Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an inborn error of metabolism involving impaired metabolism of phenylalanine, one of the amino acids. Untreated PKU can lead to intellectual disability, seizures, and other serious medical problems.
Phenylketonuria, often called PKU is a genetic disorder that causes a mutation in the liver (hepatic) enzyme, phenylalanine hydroxylase, that is necessary to metabolize phenylalanine into the amino acid tyrosine. 
Phenylketonuria Definition: Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a genetic disorder that is characterized by an inability of the body to utilize the essential amino acid, phenylalanine. 
Definition of Phenylketonuria. Phenylketonuria: The inherited inability to metabolize (process) the essential amino acid phenylalanine due to complete or near-complete deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase. Newborns are screened for phenylketonuria (PKU) by a blood test, usually with the Guthrie card bloodspot obtained from a heelprick. Treatment is with a special diet low in phenylalanine. The goal is to normalize the levels of phenylalanine and tyrosine in the blood to prevent brain damage.
Phenylketonuria (commonly known as PKU) is an inherited disorder that increases the levels of a substance called phenylalanine in the blood. Phenylalanine is a building block of proteins (an amino acid) that is obtained through the diet. It is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners. 
Maternal phenylketonuria requires a diet low in phenylalanine. Phenylketonuria is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, as are lesser degrees of phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency. Phenylketonuria is abbreviated and commonly referred to as PKU. Newborns are screened for phenylketonuria (PKU) by a blood test, usually with the Guthrie card bloodspot obtained from a heelprick. Treatment is with a special diet low in phenylalanine. The goal is to normalize the levels of phenylalanine and tyrosine in the blood to prevent brain damage.
PKU. A genetic disorder in which the body lacks the enzyme necessary to metabolize phenylalanine to tyrosine. Left untreated, the disorder can cause brain damage and progressive mental retardation as a result of the accumulation of phenylalanine and its breakdown products. Noun. 1. phenylketonuria-a genetic disorder of metabolism; lack of the enzyme needed to turn phenylalanine into tyrosine results in an accumulation of phenylalanine in the body fluids which causes various degrees of mental deficiency.
Definition. Phenylketonuria (fen-ul-ke-toe-NU-re-uh), also called PKU, is a rare inherited disorder that causes an amino acid called phenylalanine to build up in your body. PKU is caused by a defect in the gene that helps create the enzyme needed to break down phenylalanine. Without the enzyme necessary to process phenylalanine, a dangerous buildup can develop when a person with PKU eats foods that are high in protein. This can eventually lead to serious health problems
: an inherited metabolic disorder caused by an enzyme deficiency resulting in accumulation of phenylalanine and its metabolites in the blood causing usually severe mental retardation and seizures unless phenylalanine is restricted from the diet beginning at birth —abbreviation PKU. 
Definition. Phenylketonuria (PKU) can be defined as a rare metabolic disorder caused by a deficiency in the production of the hepatic (liver) enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH). Abbr. PKU A genetic disorder in which the body lacks the enzyme necessary to metabolize phenylalanine to tyrosine. Left untreated, the disorder can cause brain damage and progressive mental retardation as a result of the accumulation of phenylalanine and its breakdown products.