Today, ALL conscientious objectors are still required to register with the Selective Service System. A conscientious objector is one who is opposed to serving in the armed forces and/or bearing arms on the grounds of moral or religious principles. WHEN THERE IS A DRAFT –.
34,268 pages on this wiki. A conscientious objector (CO) is a person who refuses to serve in the armed forces because to do so would violate his conscience. Such people are often motivated by a religious idea of pacifism, such as Quakers, Seventh Day Adventists or Jehovah's Witnesses.
A conscientious objector is an individual who has claimed the right to refuse to perform military service on the grounds of freedom of thought, conscience, disability, and/or religion.
The practice of conscientious objection, the refusal to fight in the military on moral and religious grounds, has existed since the time of the Christ. Throughout much of history, however, conscientious objectors (COs) have not been a part of the religious mainstream.
A conscientious objector is someone who is opposed to serving in the armed forces and/or bearing arms on the grounds of moral or religious principles, according to the U.S. Selective Service.
A conscientious objector must oppose war in any form, and not just a particular war, in order to avoid military service. He does not have to be a member of a religious congregation that forbids participation in war. Under the Military Selective Service Act (50 App.
Conscientious objection, which the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) defines as a “firm, fixed and sincere objection to participation in war in any form or the bearing of arms, by reason of religious training and belief,” is not a new phenomenon in American culture.
In general, conscientious objector status is only considered in the context of military conscription and is not applicable to volunteer military forces. In some countries, conscientious objectors are assigned to an alternative civilian service as a substitute for conscription or military service.
A person who, because of principles of religious training and moral belief, is opposed to all war regardless of its cause. A conscientious objector may be released from the obligation to serve in the armed forces or to participate in selective service registration.