There are eight official languages spoken in the Caribbean. The eight languages are: 1  Spanish (official language of Cuba, Dominican Republic, and Puerto Rico). 2  French (official language of Guadeloupe, Haiti, Martinique, St. Barthelemy, and St. Martin).
The official language of Bonaire is Dutch, yet the native language is actually Papiamentu, spoken exclusively in the ABC Islands of Aruba, Bonaire, and Curacao. Papiamentu is a mixture of many languages including Spanish, Dutch, Portuguese, French, English, Caribbean Indian, and various African languages.
The countries in the Caribbean where Spanish is the official language include Cuba and the Dominican Republic. The US territory of Puerto Rico also speaks Spanish. If you in … clude Puerto Rico (some lists don't), then there are 3: Cuba The Dominican Republic Puerto Rico.
The countries in the Caribbean where Spanish is the official language include Cuba and the Dominican Republic. The US territory of Puerto Rico also speaks Spanish. If you in … clude Puerto Rico (some lists don't), then there are 3: Cuba The Dominican Republic Puerto Rico.
The official language of Dominica and Saint Lucia is English, but  both islands were at one point French territories, and many people  still speak a Creole dialect of French.
Dominica-official language is English, dialect french creole, St. Lucia-official language is English, dialect is french creole, St. Vincent and the grenadines
Haiti official-french,cuba,Puerto Rico and the dominican republic all speak spanish,curacao, bonaire, Aruba and st. maarten all speak dutch Guyana-official-English, dialect/vernacular-bhojputri,Hindi,ordu. Ivory Coast-Offical language is French. Haiti has two official languages, Kreyol and French.
Most languages spoken in the Caribbean are either European languages (namely English, Spanish, French and Dutch) or European language-based creoles. English is the first or second language in most Caribbean islands and is also the unofficial language of tourism, the dominant industry in the Caribbean region.