The best way to decide if soundproofing sheets and sound blankets are right for you is to solicit the advice of a professional-someone who will carefully explain the in’s and out’s of sound proof window sheets to make sure you understand how convenient and effective they are compared to the more costly alternatives. Audimute is here to help. At Audimute, we understand how to use sound proof window sheets to soundproof windows. We have experience supplying sound blankets for use in band practice rooms, daycare centers, woodworking shops, production facilities, factories and companies running loud, industrial machinery.
Soundproofing blankets, or more accurately known as acoustic blankets, are commonly used as an acoustic treatment for recording rooms where reducing the amount of noise reflecting off the walls and ceilings is critical to producing quality sound recordings. Music Rooms – Another common use of sound absorbing blankets is to cover the walls of musicians practice rooms. Imagine if your family had to hear hours of your drum or saxophone practice, they might not be very happy with you.
Comparison of Moving Blankets, sound blankets Acoustic blankets and Absorption sheets to use for sound absorption in a recording studio. Compare weight, size, make, price range and absorption quality of acoustic blankets. Includes acoustic test graphs. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
It can be overwhelming because sound blankets and soundproofing sheets are only one option among many others such as foams, wraps and expensive, custom made state-of-the-art glass. Audimute is here to help. At Audimute, we understand how to use sound proof window sheets to soundproof windows. We have experience supplying sound blankets for use in band practice rooms, daycare centers, woodworking shops, production facilities, factories and companies running loud, industrial machinery.
Find the right moving blankets for soundproofing that fit your application based on weight and style. Buy soundproof moving blankets by the dozen and save. Get dense moving blankets for sound proofing with weights up to nearly 8 lbs each (up to 95 lbs per dozen). Each sound proof moving blanket measures 72 by 80 and is an excellent method of sound attenuation. Call 866-444-9990 to speak to a member of our sales team. 
Hanging the soundproof blanket 2-3 inches from the wall will absorb some 50% more sound than hanging the blanket on the wall directly. Using a 3 inch spacing will result in the best, most crisp and clear sound inside the room (garage, etc). Moving blankets are used for noise reduction for. 1  Sound blankets for dishwashers. 2  Sound attenuation blankets for doors and windows. 3  Acoustical blankets for a garage band, no drum or bass (vocals, guitars, etc. only). 4  Sound blankets for a small air conditioner or heat pump.
Except for the bass... Blankets, mats, egg cartons, pillows & stuff like that will help with higher & mid-range frequencies. But bass-especially loud bass-is the hardest to deal with. Basically it requires more mass & density to absorb or block-a LOT more. And that's where things start to get expensive. For a temporary setup, you could hang a bunch of heavy blankets (at least a few layers thick) on the walls and over the doors/windows. Of course, this will cost much more than $50 if you don't already have the blankets, but you can often rent moving blankets from U-Haul.
1 Soundproof Blankets – If you are not concerned with the aesthetics of your method soundproofing a room, soundproof curtains can be hung on your walls temporarily to help block sound and increase your STC rating. 2  Acoustic blankets can reduce the level of noise in your room up to 21dB. Soundproofing a room is as simple as creating a sound blocking gap between your walls and the source of the noise. There are a number of soundproofing materials on the market that achieve this goal effectively.
And that is: making the room/space AIRTIGHT. Sound travels best through the air-even small holes, cracks & crevasses. It is astonishing how much you can reduce the level of sound coming from a room by sealing it up around the door(s), window(s) & etc. Use weather stripping foam, caulk-whatever you have or can get. For a temporary setup, you could hang a bunch of heavy blankets (at least a few layers thick) on the walls and over the doors/windows. Of course, this will cost much more than $50 if you don't already have the blankets, but you can often rent moving blankets from U-Haul.