Celluloids are a class of compounds created from nitrocellulose and camphor, with added dyes and other agents. Generally considered the first thermoplastic, it was first created as Parkesine in 1856 and as Xylonite in 1869, before being registered as Celluloid in 1870. The name Celluloid actually began as a trademark of the Celluloid Manufacturing Company, first of Albany, NY, and later of Newark, New Jersey, which manufactured the celluloids patented by John Wesley Hyatt. Hyatt used heat and pressure to simplify the manufacture of these compounds.
Unlike the harder, more resilient Bakelite or Catalin (two other collectible old plastics), Celluloid is flammable, sensitive to heat and easily damaged. Celluloid was first invented in the late 19th century and is made of chemical compounds and camphor. It was originally invented to make billiard balls, which were traditionally made of precious ivory. There were several inventors who unsuccessfully attempted to make this type of plastic. 
Celluloid is the name of a class of compounds created from nitrocellulose and camphor, plus dyes and other agents. Generally regarded to be the first thermoplastic, it was first created as Parkesine in 1856 and as Xylonite in 1869 before being registered as Celluloid in 1870. Celluloid is easily molded and shaped, and it was first widely used as an ivory replacement. Lucite is one brand name of Acrylic glass. Acrylic glass is a thermoplastic and transparent plastic. Chemically, it is the synthetic polymer of methyl methacrylate.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Celluloid is a material made by plasticizing nitrocellulose with the assistance of camphor. This substance was first invented in the 1800s as a replacement for ivory and bone, and its uses later greatly expanded, perhaps most notably into the world of film. Originally, celluloid was used to make things like stays for corsets, pool balls, and a variety of other objects once made from bone; when its potential as photographic film was realized, celluloid production took off in a major way.
Celluloid is one of the first synthetic plastics ever created. It is a plastic created from wood products that includes cellulose nitrate and camphor. First created in 1863, it was a popular material to make items as diverse as jewelry and dolls from the 1870s through the 1930s. When celluloid was invented and first came to prominence in the 1870s, dolls were nearly all breakable and fragile--bisque and china dolls were easily shattered and papier mache and wax easily ruined.
Celluloid Dolls-An Introduction: When celluloid was invented and first came to prominence in the 1870s, dolls were nearly all breakable and fragile--bisque and china dolls were easily shattered and papier mache and wax easily ruined. So, it wasn't a surprise that doll companies started experimenting with celluloid to mold dolls rather early on.
Celluloid is easily molded and shaped, and it was first widely used as an ivory replacement. The main use was in movie and photography film industries, which used only celluloid films prior to acetate films that were introduced in the 1950s. The name Celluloid actually began as a trademark of the Celluloid Manufacturing Company, first of Albany, NY, and later of Newark, New Jersey, which manufactured the celluloids patented by John Wesley Hyatt. Hyatt used heat and pressure to simplify the manufacture of these compounds.
Celluloid is made from a mixture of chemical such as nitrocellulose, camphor, alcohol, as well as colorants and fillers depending on the desired product. The first step is transforming raw cellulose into nitrocellulose by conducting a nitration reaction. The name Celluloid actually began as a trademark of the Celluloid Manufacturing Company, first of Albany, NY, and later of Newark, New Jersey, which manufactured the celluloids patented by John Wesley Hyatt. Hyatt used heat and pressure to simplify the manufacture of these compounds.
Celluloid is actually a trade name, like Band-Aid or Kleenex, but the term has been generically used for many years to reference a type of plastic material invented in the mid 1800s and used to make a variety of objects until around 1940. 
Celluloid. Celluloids are a class of compounds created from nitrocellulose and camphor, with added dyes and other agents. Generally regarded to be the first thermoplastic, it was first created as Parkesine in 1862 and as Xylonite in 1869, before being registered as Celluloid in 1870. 