Each day, your liver carries out more than 400 different functions that help you digest food, store nutrients, produce proteins and detoxify your body. Your kidneys use a specialized filtration system to continually purify your blood and produce urine. Magnesium. Prevent kidney stones by getting plenty of magnesium in your diet, according to Dr. James F. Balch, author of the book Prescription for Natural Cures: A Self-Care Guide for Treating Health Problems with Natural Remedies, Including Diet and Nutrition, Nutritional Supplements, Bodywork and More..
Bitter leafy salad greens (dandelion, chicory, endive, rocket). The bitterness of these foods helps to stimulate bile flow within the liver. Good food for kidneys: Apple Apples can be eaten raw, baked, or drunk, which makes them a very versatile food. Foods that are healthy for the liver fall into two main categories. First are those that promote the detoxification process of the liver. And second, are those that are high in antioxidants and therefore protect the liver while it's carrying out its detoxification processes. Below are a list of the top eight foods that are considered to be good for your liver. Garlic and onions. Garlic contains allicin which is a sulphur-based compound needed by the liver for effective detoxification. Garlic helps the liver rid the body of mercury, certain food additives and the hormone oestrogen
People talk about liver and kidney cleansing in ways that conjure up pictures of driving to something like a carwash, attaching the liver and kidneys to a washing machine, and happily picking them up “cleansed” after a quick and powerful scrub. Unfortunately, liver and kidney cleansing isn’t that easy. Also enjoy cranberry, pomegranate, and blueberry juices, which enhance kidney function, and supplement with essential nutrients (see “foods to optimize kidney health” below). Guidelines for any cleanse. Most healthy people can follow these cleansing guidelines for a period of two or three weeks.
Overview. The kidneys and liver are organs of detoxification and elimination that help your body filter waste. The kidneys regulate sodium and mineral levels, excreting extra salts so that toxins do not build up in your body. The liver, your largest internal organ, aids in digestion, produces bile to break down fats and absorb nutrients and rids the body of toxic substances. For kidney and liver cleansing, eat a whole foods diet, low in animal protein and saturated fat. Avoid alcohol, caffeine, tobacco and unnecessary drugs
If you have kidney disease, it's important that you consult a renal dietitian and follow a kidney diet. Including super foods in your kidney diet eating plan can help you increase your intake of nutrients and antioxidants. Here’s a list of the top 15 kidney-friendly super foods. These foods are good for everyone, not just people with kidney disease, so by using them in your family's meals, you'll be helping your loved ones enjoy good health too. 1. Red bell peppers. Red bell peppers are a good choice for those concerned about kidney health, because they're low in potassium.
Fruits and vegetables contain antioxidants, which promote kidney and liver health. Your kidneys and liver are responsible for a variety of functions, but both organs work as as filters that remove toxins and waste products from your body. Diets high in preservatives, chemicals, toxins, refined sugar, hydrogenated fats or protein can damage your kidneys and liver, leading to dysfunction and disease. 
Kidney stones can develop when minerals build up in your urine. However, eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables, and low in salt or oxalate-rich food can help prevent mineral build up. Additionally, drinking lots of water throughout the day, especially if you exercise frequently, is important for kidney health.