DEFINITION of 'Internal Rate Of Return-IRR'. A metric used in capital budgeting measuring the profitability of potential investments. Internal rate of return is a discount rate that makes the net present value (NPV) of all cash flows from a particular project equal to zero. 
Remarks. IRR is closely related to NPV, the net present value function. The rate of return calculated by IRR is the interest rate corresponding to a 0 (zero) net present value. Description. Returns the internal rate of return for a series of cash flows represented by the numbers in values. These cash flows do not have to be even, as they would be for an annuity.
internal abdominal abscess. see retroperitoneal abscess. internal carotid artery arteritis. parasitic arteritis of the external carotid artery as it courses around the edge of the guttural pouch may lead to copious nasal bleeding in horses when the artery ruptures. internal elastic membrane. a condensation of elastic fibers separating the tunica intima from the tunica media. internal environment. within the animal; includes blood pressure, circulating blood volume, tissue fluid volume, blood sugar level, tidal air volume, glomerular filtration rate. internal rate of return. the interest rate needed to discount future income in order to equate it with the present investment in a program.
Pooled Internal Rate Of Return ... The IRR is a discount rate where the present value of future cash flows of an investment is equal to the cost of the investment. The net IRR is a modified IRR value that has taken into consideration management fees and any carried interest. RELATED TERMS. 
Definition. IRR. The rate of return that would make the present value of future cash flows plus the final market value of an investment or business opportunity equal the current market price of the investment or opportunity. 
There are two variables that you will need to determine before you can calculate the internal rate of return. 1  The amount of the initial investment. 2  The amount of money that the project will pay out for each year. Lesson Summary. Internal rate of return analyzes all of the money that will be earned for a particular project and calculates the rate at which that investment will break even. It is the value of an investment when the net present value equals zero.
internal rate of return (IRR). The rate of discount on an investment that equates the present value of the investment's cash outflows with the present value of the investment's cash inflows. Internal rate of return is analogous to yield to maturity for a bond. That is, the internal rate of return is the return necessary for the present value of an investment to equal what one spends in making the investment.
What it is: Internal rate of return (IRR) is the interest rate at which the net present value of all the cash flows (both positive and negative) from a project or investment equal zero. Internal rate of return is used to evaluate the attractiveness of a project or investment. 
Internal rate of return (IRR), also called the dollar-weighted rate of return or yield on project, is the interest rate that will bring a series of positive and/or negative cash flows to a net present value (NPV) of zero. This was last updated in August 2011. Posted by: Margaret Rouse. Related Terms. - A swivel chair interface is a system for user input and interaction that requires them to move from one interface to another, sometimes duplicating work.