The real test of a solid state hybrid drive is how the performance will be compared to traditional hard drives and solid state drives. Of course the performance is highly dependent upon how a computer system is used. The real limiting factor of a SSHD is the amount of solid state memory that is used for the cache. In fact, the laptop and desktop variants of these drives have the exact same capacities. So this claim is entirely true. Next we compare the prices of the SSHD to the other two. In terms of capacity ratings, the SSHD does cost slightly more than a traditional hard drive. This is the result of adding in the extra solid state cache memory and additional firmware to control the caching processor
The ultimate solution to meeting improved storage performance and capacity needs within the budget constraints of IT organizations is a blend of solid state drive (SSD) and hard disk drive (HDD) technology. SSHDs combine a small, fast and affordable amount of NAND flash memory with a traditional hard drive. SSHD, the best of both worlds: 1  Uses SSD for blazing speed. 2  Integrates HDD high–capacity and reliability.
SSHD stand for solid-state hybrid drive. It's a traditional hard disk with a small amount of solid-state storage built in, typically 8GB. The drive appears as a single device to Windows (or any other operating system), and a controller chip decides which data is stored on the SSD and what's left on the HDD.
Solid state hybrid drives (SSHD) effectively merge these technologies, providing storage devices that are compatible with traditional HDD modules, while delivering one of the most compelling value propositions the storage market has seen in years: SSD–like performance and hard drive capacity. SSHDs combine a small, fast and affordable amount of NAND flash memory with a traditional hard drive. SSHD, the best of both worlds: 1  Uses SSD for blazing speed. 2  Integrates HDD high–capacity and reliability.
Solid State Hybrid Drive (SSHD) is a category of storage that incorporates NAND flash, solid state memory into a hard drive's architecture, resulting in a single, integrated device. IIn the two forms of hybrid storage technologies (dual drive hybrid solutions, and SSHDs), the goal is to combine HDD and flash-based storage technologies to provide a balance of improved performance and high-capacity storage availability.
In computing, a hybrid drive (also known by the initialism SSHD) is a logical or physical storage device that combines NAND flash solid-state drive (SSD) with hard disk drive (HDD) technology, with the intent of adding some of the speed of SSDs to the cost-effective storage capacity of traditional HDDs. The purpose of the SSD in a hybrid drive is to act as a cache for the data stored on the HDD, improving the overall performance by keeping copies of the most frequently used data on the SSD.
The emergence of solid state hybrid drive (SSHD) technology provides a way for users to get more performance from their machines, run richer applications, and make stronger contributions to the organization—all in a price that works. SSHDs combine a small, fast and affordable amount of NAND flash memory with a traditional hard drive. SSHD, the best of both worlds: 1  Uses SSD for blazing speed. 2  Integrates HDD high–capacity and reliability.
SSHD is a more precise term than the more general term Hybrid Drive, which has previously been used to describe both SSHD devices as well non-integrated combinations of Solid State Drives (SSD) and Hard Disk Drives (HDD). IIn the two forms of hybrid storage technologies (dual drive hybrid solutions, and SSHDs), the goal is to combine HDD and flash-based storage technologies to provide a balance of improved performance and high-capacity storage availability.
The Good The Seagate Laptop Thin SSHD offers noticeably faster boot time and better overall performance than regular hard drives at a much lower cost than solid-state drives. The Bad The Seagate Laptop Thin SSHD's data transfer speed is slow. It comes with just 8GB of flash memory and spins at only 5,400rpm. Similar to previous generations, the new Laptop Thin SSHD is a regular hard drive that has built-in 8GB of NAND flash memory, like the type of storage used in SSDs.