The conventional Prius is the top selling hybrid car ever in both Japan and the U.S. Prius sales passed the 1 million mark in the U.S. in April 2011, and August 2011 in Japan. Japan also has the world's highest hybrid market penetration. The hybrid-electric vehicle did not become widely available until the release of the Toyota Prius in Japan in 1997, followed by the Honda Insight in 1999.
The first hybrid cars were invented in the 1990's. The first non  gas powered vehicle was invented in 1896 by Jacob Lohner. A hybrid does not plug into an outlet, all of the electricity used  to charge its batteries comes from a fossil fuel engine on the car.    Electric cars, on the other … hand, can only be charged from  an outlet, which takes a long time.
The hybrid car is such a suitable mode of transportation in these times of environmental and economic concerns that we tend to think of it as a recent modern invention. Actually, these vehicles have been in development for several years now. It was in 1665 when Ferdinand Verbiest, a Jesuit priest and astronomer, began designing a four-wheeled self-moving wagon powered by steam. Verbiest is known to have toiled on the design well into 1680, but there is no known record that the machine ever worked or if it was even built in the first place.
The first hybrid car wasn't the Toyota Prius nor was it invented in the 1990s or 2000s. In fact, it dates back to the early 20th century. Still, the first hybrid car was brought into existence for reasons that will be familiar to those living in the early 21st century: Internal combustion engines were producing too much foul-smelling pollution. Lohner asked Porsche to combine his in-wheel motors with one of Lohner's coaches. The result was the Lohner-Porsche Elektromobil. This vehicle was first shown to the general public at the Paris Exposition of 1900. Although initially a purely electric vehicle, the Elektromobil soon became history's first hybrid.
Toyota released the Toyota Prius, the first hybrid four-door sedan available in the United States. Honda introduced the Honda Civic Hybrid, its second commercially available hybrid gasoline-electric car. The appearance and drivability of the Civic Hybrid was (and still is) identical to the conventional Civic. Briggs and Stratton, the company known for manufacturing lawn mower engines, developed a hybrid car powered by a twin cyclinder four-stroke 16hp gasoline engine and an electric motor—for total of 26 horsepower.
The Austrian Dr. Ferdinand Porsche, at age 23, built his first car, the Lohner Electric Chaise. It was the world’s first front-wheel-drive. Porsche’s second car was a hybrid, using an internal combustion engine to spin a generator that provided power to electric motors located in the wheel hubs. Briggs and Stratton, the company known for manufacturing lawn mower engines, developed a hybrid car powered by a twin cyclinder four-stroke 16hp gasoline engine and an electric motor—for total of 26 horsepower.
The first hybrid car was built in the year 1899 by engineer Ferdinand Porsche. Called the System Lohner-Porsche Mixte, it used a gasoline engine to supply power to an electric motor that drove the car's front wheels. The Mixte was well-received, and over 300 were produced. 
The credit for being the first hybrid car of the world goes to Lohner-Porsche Mixte Hybrid, the hybrid vehicle developed by Ferdinand Porsche in 1889. Porsche pulled off this feat while he was working with Jacob Lohner & Co based at Vienna, Austria. While Toyota Prius was indeed the first hybrid car to go into mass production, it was clearly not the first one to be developed. Hybrid Cars: An Overview. A hybrid car is a car which uses two or more distinct sources of power for the purpose of locomotion.
Victor Wouk had been developing the modern hybrid car throughout the 1960’s to the’70’s, but it was not until the late ‘90’s that it had become commercially available. It was an idea that took decades to catch on, but if we take into account the other previous attempts, it had actually taken literally centuries. It was in 1665 when Ferdinand Verbiest, a Jesuit priest and astronomer, began designing a four-wheeled self-moving wagon powered by steam. Verbiest is known to have toiled on the design well into 1680, but there is no known record that the machine ever worked or if it was even built in the first place.
In 1901 Ferdinand Porsche developed the Lohner-Porsche Mixte Hybrid, the first gasoline-electric hybrid automobile in the world. The hybrid-electric vehicle did not become widely available until the release of the Toyota Prius in Japan in 1997, followed by the Honda Insight in 1999.