Preparation. Preheat oven to 450°. Spread 3 Tbsp. Basic Tomato Sauce over each of 4 individual pizza crusts. Top each with 1/4 cup ham, 1/4 cup chopped pineapple, and 1 Tbsp. diced bell pepper. Sprinkle each with 2 Tbsp. cheese. Bake on middle oven rack 10 to 12 minutes. Note: We tested with Natural Gourmet Kabuli Pizza Crust.
Hawaiian pizza is a pizza that usually consists of a cheese and tomato base with pieces of ham and pineapple. Often versions will have mixed peppers, mushrooms and bacon. Another variety consists of pineapple and Canadian bacon. or American Bacon. Despite its name, Hawaiian pizza is not a Hawaiian invention; it is Canadian. The Village Voice, National Post, Toronto Sun, London Free Press and The Chatham Daily News have covered Sam Panopoulos' claim that he created the first Hawaiian pizza at the Satellite Restaurant in Chatham, Ontario, Canada in 1962.
1 Heat the pan to medium and add about 1 tablespoon of olive oil. 2  Add 1 piece of the rolled-out dough. 3  Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, until the dough is bubbly on top and browned underneath. 4  Flip, add half of the sauce, half of the mozzarella, half of the ham, and half of the pineapple. 1 Preheat the broiler. 2  Add a little oil to a medium cast-iron pan and fry the ham over medium-low heat until it's a little brown and crispy, about 3 minutes. 3  Set aside. 4  Roll each pizza dough half into circles the size of your cast-iron pan.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Place pizza crust on a baking sheet and top with all remaining ingredients, in the order listed. Bake 8 to 12 minutes, until cheese is melted and bubbly.
Hawaiian Pizza. 1) To make the dough: Mix and knead together all of the dough ingredients, by hand, mixer, or bread machine, till you've created a soft, smooth dough. 2) Allow the dough to rise, covered, for 1 hour. 
Place 1/2 cup of sauce on pizza. Sprinkle on 1/2 cup of cheese, 1 cup of pineapple and bacon pieces. Sprinkle on remaining 1/4 cup of cheese. Bake in oven for 14 minutes on middle rack. If you prefer a browner pizza, broil pizza for an additional couple of minutes, watching to ensure it doesn't burn. Once it looks good and brown remove and let sit for 10 minutes to let the cheese firm up a little
It starts with the crustiest homemade pizza crust. Ham, pineapple, cheese, and sauce haphazardly arranged on top. And there’s bacon. I don’t think bacon is a traditional topping on Hawaiian pizza, but in Kevin’s words “everything goes with bacon.” So naturally… there’s lots of bacon on our hawaiian pizza. Let’s talk about this pizza crust for a sec. Total Time: 2 hours, 30 minutes. Print Recipe. Classic Hawaiian Pizza is a staple on our Friday nights. This crowd-pleasing recipe starts with my fluffy homemade pizza crust and is finished with a sprinkle of crisp bacon. It's love at first bite. 1  1/2 recipe homemade pizza crust 1