they take your highest score. I would assume that it would stay on your record. since you have been out of school for so long, if you retake it you might not have such a good chance at getting a better score. call the college you're wanting to attend and see. they might need a more recent score. Lassandra · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Answer: • The TSI Assessment and all TSI alternative tests (TAKS, SAT, ACT and STAAR) are valid for 5 years from the day the exam was taken. • CompassESL scores are valid for one year from the day the exam was taken. • Higher level math is valid for 2 years.
If I were to take the SAT in 11th grade, would that score be valid for my 12th grade college admissions? Essentially, how long is the validity of my SAT scores for admissions? 
Score for SAT. · The SAT scores are valid over a period of 5 years. · The scoring for SAT is evaluated out of 2400 (from 600 to 2400). · Subject wise scores ranges from 200 -800, where 200 is the minimum and 800 is the maximum score. · The scores for your exams are available after 3 weeks of taking up the examination. The SAT scores are valid over a period of 5 years, until or unless there has been a change in the criteria for SAT. Candidates mostly do not use their SAT scores till five years or so. They usually take new tests and then they apply to the desired colleges.
Answers: 5 years Usually after time away from school you will not have to submit SAT/ACT scores. They will usually only ask for high school transcript information. 
Columbia. GMAT scores are valid for five years. Your GMAT score must be valid up through the start of your MBA studies at Columbia Business School. For example, for January 2012 entry, GMAT scores must be dated January 7, 2007, or more recently. For August 2012 entry, GMAT scores must be dated August 20, 2007, or more recently..
1017 was the average SAT score (515 math, 502 Reading) for 2007     SAT scores are scaled so that the average score on a section is always right around 500 … (which is right in the middle of the 200 to 800 point range for each section). This is true for the new test or the old test. According to the website of the College Board, it takes the College Board about 5 weeks to mail an SAT score to a college if regular delivery is requested. If rush delivery is requested, the scores are mailed in two days.
Date Posted: Aug 20, 2011 #1. Advertisement. I took them about three years ago, and graduated high school two years ago, went to college for a while, and dropped out (technically discharged, but I voluntarily stopped going and let my crappy GPA do the work for me. Worst decision I've made in my life). 