That’s why 85% of the world’s premier financial institutions trust Fidessa to provide them with their multi-asset trading and investment infrastructure, their market data and analysis, and their decision making and workflow technology. Exceptional trading, investment and information solutions for the world’s financial community. New technology, new regulation, new challenges: making money in today’s financial markets is all about staying ahead of the curve. Having the capability to spot new trends and act fast turns change into opportunity.
Fidessa /fi-des-sa/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Fidessa's name origin is Latin, and the name Fidessa means loyalty. Fidessa is a variant transcription of Fidelity (Latin): Latin transcription of Faith. Fidessa is an unusual first name for women. Fidessa is an equally uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census).
01 Fidessa groupfidessacom Fidessa group Exceptional trading, investment and information solutions for the world’s financial community. New technology, new regulation, new challenges: making money in today’s financial markets is all about staying ahead of the curve. That’s why 85% of the world’s premier financial institutions trust Fidessa to provide them with their multi-asset trading and investment infrastructure, their market data and analysis, and their decision making and workflow technology.
About Fidessa. Exceptional trading, investment and information solutions for the world's financial community. New technology, new regulation, new challenges: making money in today's financial markets is all about staying ahead of the curve. Having the capability to spot new trends and act fast turns change into opportunity.
That's why 85% of the world's premier financial institutions trust Fidessa to provide them with their multi-asset trading and investment infrastructure, their market data and analysis, and their decision making and workflow technology. New technology, new regulation, new challenges: making money in today's financial markets is all about staying ahead of the curve. Having the capability to spot new trends and act fast turns change into opportunity.
Fidessa Group plc is a British-headquartered company which provides software and services such as trading systems to clients in the financial services sector. The firm also provides market data and related services to buy side and sell side financial services customers. In November 2008, Fidessa launched its Fidessa Fragmentation Index (FFI). This helps to show how fragmented stocks are across exchanges following the MiFID European landscape. Since its inception it has highlighted as one of the most interesting technical developments in the financial sector in 2008 by Finextra.
01. Fidessa group. fidessacom. Fidessa group. Exceptional trading, investment and information solutions. for the world’s financial community. New technology, new regulation, new challenges: making money in today’s financial markets is all. about staying ahead of the curve. That’s why 85% of the world’s premier financial institutions trust Fidessa to provide them with their multi-asset trading and investment infrastructure, their market data and analysis, and their decision making and workflow technology.
With the group's core trading platform, Fidessa, being better known in the market place, the Royalblue Group plc changed its name to Fidessa Group plc following shareholder approval at the AGM held in April 2007. The change of name took effect on 1 May 2007. In November 2008, Fidessa launched its Fidessa Fragmentation Index (FFI). This helps to show how fragmented stocks are across exchanges following the MiFID European landscape. Since its inception it has highlighted as one of the most interesting technical developments in the financial sector in 2008 by Finextra.
Papers // Innovation Ecosystems: Unlocking real value through fintech innovation. Examining the two different types of innovation that are emerging within the buy-side and. the sell-side and what is required for them to be truly disruptive. 