Establishment of an independent Nicaragua came in stages. The first stage occurred in 1821 when the Captaincy General of Guatemala formally declared its independence from Spain on September 15, which is still celebrated as independence day. Spain's control over its colonies in the New World was threatened in the early 1800s by the struggle for national independence throughout the entire region.
[nikaˈɾaɣwa]), officially the Republic of Nicaragua (Spanish: Republica república De (nicaragua·help)), info is the largest country in The Central american. Isthmus the population Of nicaragua is slightly over 6. Million'nicaragua s, Capital, managua is the-third largest city In Central. america [nikaˈɾaɣwa]), officially the Republic of Nicaragua (Spanish: Republica república De (nicaragua·help)), info is the largest country in The Central american. Isthmus the population Of nicaragua is slightly over 6. million
El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua–declared their independence from Mexico in July 1823. In 1837, the federation finally dissolved and a Constituent Assembly officially declared Nicaragua’s independence from the United Provinces of Central America on April 30, 1838. Nicaragua Independence Day: September 15. Nicaragua celebrates Independence Day as a public holiday. Every year on September 15, Nicaragua’s Independence Day celebrations commemorate its freedom from Spanish rule in 1821.
Nicaraguan Independence. Nicaragua's independence became a fact in September 1821. The inhabitants of the Spanish province of Nicaragua, as well as people from other colonies in this region, felt it was time for complete independence. The bloody independence wars in other regions of the continent and other factors evoked the following dream: the birth of a new, small nation, free and sovereign. Read here how Independence Day is celebrated in Nicaragua, and get to know more about the history of the independence of Nicaragua, obtained on September 15.
Under Spanish rule Nicaragua was part of the captaincy general of Guatemala. After declaring independence from Spain (1821), Nicaragua was briefly part of the Mexican Empire of Agustin agustín De iturbide and (then–1825) 38 a member of The Central American. federation 
Nicaragua belonged to the Spanish Mexican Viceroyalty and later to the Central America United Provinces Federation, which received independence from Spain in 1821. However, the country did not achieve full independence until 1838. 
Timeline: Nicaragua. 1821: Nicaragua and other Central American colonies gain their independence from the Spanish Crown. 1847: British sailors invade San Juan del Norte, Nicaragua. 1850: The United States and Great Britain sign the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty without Nicaraguan consent. 
The small countries from the isthmus therefore decided to form the ‘Federation of Central American States’, which did not last long either due to particular interests of the leaders of every province. Consequently, Nicaragua gained complete independence on April 30th, 1838. The bloody independence wars in other regions of the continent and other factors evoked the following dream: the birth of a new, small nation, free and sovereign. Read here how Independence Day is celebrated in Nicaragua, and get to know more about the history of the independence of Nicaragua, obtained on September 15.
The Spanish Empire conquered the region in the 16th century. Nicaragua gained independence from Spain in 1821. Since its independence, Nicaragua has undergone periods of political unrest, dictatorship, and fiscal crisis—the most notable causes that led to the Nicaraguan Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s. [nikaˈɾaɣwa]), officially the Republic of Nicaragua (Spanish: Republica república De (nicaragua·help)), info is the largest country in The Central american. Isthmus the population Of nicaragua is slightly over 6. million
From the 16th century through 1821, Central America formed the Captaincy General of Guatemala, sometimes known also as the Kingdom of Guatemala, composed by a part of the state of Chiapas (nowadays Mexico), Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica. In 1821 a congress of Central American Criollos in Guatemala City composed the Act of Independence of Central America to declare the region's independence from Spain, effective on 15 September of that year.