Waterfront Tools. The Installation Tools in this section make the install and removal of a boat lift much easier. Wheel kits allow the lift to be easily moved and the lift jack allows the lift to be easily lifted. General.
Click to see details. IWP-66; Boat Lift Wheel Mount Kit. (Kit for 2 wheels). IWP-66; Boat Lift Wheel Mount Kit fits lift frames up to 4 wide x 3, 4, 5 & 6 high. Kit complete with all parts needed (4 ea. Plates, 2 ea. Axles W/ shim tubes & fasteners) to mount 2 Ea. 1-1/4 or 1-1/2 hub wheels. 
Boat Lift Wheel Kits. 1  Allows you to roll your lift in and out without heavy lifting. 2  Airtight wheels provide about 60 pounds of flotation each to lighten the lift while moving it in the water. 1 Allows you to install and level your lift without getting wet or straining a muscle. 2  Incorporates a set of four wheels with a float allowing you to roll the lift into the water and float it into place. 3  Insta-Float – Same as Float & Roll™ except without wheels. 4  May be used in combination with boat lift wheel kits
Please try again later. Once you install the SmarteJack™ and wheels (not included), you will be able to efficiently move your boat lift or dock with ease. This retractable wheel kit is made from a pair of aluminum posts that attach to plastic wheels with 1-5/8 or larger hubs (wheels sold separately). For leveling, the jack adjusts up to 20 using a wrench or cordless drill. This patent-pending wheel kit fits most boat lifts. The one-time installation doesn't require tools. http://www.overtons.com/modperl/produ...
Our wheel kit makes moving your boat lift easy. Smarte JackTMmakes moving your boat lift easy and quick. With this retractable wheel kit, efficiently move your boat lift or dock by yourself. Smarte Jack TM is the perfect solution for boat owners and dock installers because it makes boat lifts easy to move and to level. Attachable wheels make your boat lift light and mobile. If you want to level the lift, all you need is a wrench or cordless drill: Smarte Jack TM moves up and down 20 inches.
No longer will you need help from neighbors any time you need to move your lift. This system makes the seemingly impossible, possible – one person installation for even the heaviest of boat lifts. Miraculift is more than just a simple wheel kit; Miraculift is a complete installation and removal system. The DIY install kit includes detailed instructions along with all necessary hardware, brackets, tow straps and a winch to allow a single person to install, position or remove a boat lift. MiracuLift – easy in and easy out for your boat lift. Miraculift is the answer to “easy in and easy out” with your boat lift. This product can simply be installed on nearly any lift by a do-it-yourself cottage owner in minutes. You will be able to take your boat lift in and out of the water with greater ease while saving time in the process
Wheel Kit-Rotomolded Plastic Tire. Using wheels when installing and removing a boat lift will make the job easier in most situations. Bracket kits are available to install on any additional lifts and use the same wheels. The wheels are not intended to provide support while the boat is on the lift