Brisbane's existing cruise ship terminal at Portside Wharf is capable of welcoming ships up to 270 metres in length, including the P&O Aurora and the Oriana, but unable to handle mega ships the size of the 345 metre-long RMS Queen Mary 2. 
Strategically located on Australia's East Coast cruising hub, the Brisbane Cruise Terminal is ideally situated just one sea-day away from Sydney or the Whitsunday Islands, and two sea-days from Tropical Cairns or the Pacific Island of New Caledonia. Only ten minutes from the Brisbane CBD and Brisbane International Airport, Portside Wharf is arguably the world's closest cruise terminal to an international airport, and is literally in the thick of it all.
The majority of cruise liners that visit the port currently dock at the Portside Wharf cruise terminal, located on the north side of the Brisbane River. The Portside Wharf website contains detailed information on available facilities, including parking options for passengers. 
Schedule. For passengers embarking on their cruise from the Brisbane Cruise Terminal, Sun-air arrive at the cruise terminal at 10:45am. Pick up times from your accommodation are advised when making your reservation. Sun-air operate shuttle transfers to meet every P&O cruise ship arriving and departing from the Brisbane Cruise Terminal (Hamilton Wharf) and provides a door to door service to holiday accommodation and private residences to all suburbs of the Sunshine Coast*.
The Wharf is Brisbane's commercial international cruise terminal. It is also an upscale residential and retail precinct including restaurants, shops, a large fish shop/cafe, a supermarket, Dendy cinema complex and a public plaza. The $750 million development was completed by Multiplex. It is located on the north side of the Brisbane River upstream from the Gateway Bridge. The cruise ship terminal is capable of accommodating ships up to 270 metres in length.
Portside Wharf is the international cruise terminal, residential and retail development at Hamilton, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. The $750 million development was completed by Multiplex. It is located on the north side of the Brisbane River upstream from the Gateway Bridge. The cruise ship terminal is capable of accommodating ships up to 270 metres in length.
Please use the form for an online booking request. Brisbane Cruise Terminal will then contact you in regard to your request. Alternately, please feel free to phone Brisbane Cruise Terminal office on 07 3907 4111 regarding booking a berth at Portside Wharf. Only ten minutes from the Brisbane CBD and Brisbane International Airport, Portside Wharf is arguably the world's closest cruise terminal to an international airport, and is literally in the thick of it all.
The Brisbane Cruise Terminal was opened on 29 August 2006. The $750 million development was completed by Multiplex. It is located on the north side of the Brisbane River upstream from the Gateway Bridge. The cruise ship terminal is capable of accommodating ships up to 270 metres in length. Ocean liners, super yachts and expedition ships dock at its international wharf on average once a week
Portside Wharf is capable of welcoming ships up to 270 metres in length, including the P&O Aurora and the Oriana, two of the largest ships to dock in Brisbane. Other luxury liners that have docked at the terminal include The World, The Volendam, The Sea Princess, The Amsterdam and Nippon Maru World Ship for Youth. Only ten minutes from the Brisbane CBD and Brisbane International Airport, Portside Wharf is arguably the world's closest cruise terminal to an international airport, and is literally in the thick of it all.
For passengers disembarking from their cruise at the Brisbane Cruise Terminal, Sun-air departs from the cruise terminal at 9:00am when all pre-booked passengers are on board. Sun-air operate shuttle transfers to meet every P&O cruise ship arriving and departing from the Brisbane Cruise Terminal (Hamilton Wharf) and provides a door to door service to holiday accommodation and private residences to all suburbs of the Sunshine Coast*.