New Jersey Plan. Opposite of the Virginia Plan, it proposed a single-chamber congress in which each state had one vote. This created a conflict with representation between bigger states, who wanted control befitting their population, and smaller states, who didn't want to be bullied by larger states. 
The Virginia Plan (also known as the Randolph Plan, after its sponsor, or the Large-State Plan) was a proposal by Virginia delegates for a bicameral legislative branch. The plan was drafted by James Madison while he waited for a quorum to assemble at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. The Virginia Plan proposed a legislative branch consisting of two chambers (bicameral legislature), with the dual principles of rotation in office and recall applied to the lower house of the national legislature.
The Ten Percent Plan was written by president Lincoln. The Radical Republicans wrote the Wade Davis Bill/ Ten Percent Plan. The Bill stated that the southern states could rejo … in but, had to swear under Ironclad oath to rejoin the Union. This also established safeguards for African American Civil
the rivial plan proposed by congress to president Abraham Lincoln's Reconstruction plan was the Wade-Davis Bill. The Radical Republicans wrote the Wade Davis Bill/ Ten Percent Plan. The Bill stated that the southern states could rejo … in but, had to swear under Ironclad oath to rejoin the Union.
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2007). The New Jersey Plan (also widely known as the Small State Plan or the Paterson Plan) was a proposal for the structure of the United States Government presented by William Paterson at the Constitutional Convention on June 15, 1787. 
The rival plan proposed by congress in July 1864, was the Wade-Davis Bill. When 10% of a state's voters had signed this oath, Congress would reinstate the state into the Union. He also urged that African Americans who could read and write gain the right to vote. Resistance to Lincoln's plan was shown by his Radical Republican opponents in Congress.
What rival plan proposed by congress to president Abraham Lincoln's reconstruction plan was the was it the rival bill fifteenth amendment wade-Davis bill or the freedmen's bureau? The Radical Republicans wrote the Wade Davis Bill/ Ten Percent Plan. The Bill stated that the southern states could rejo … in but, had to swear under Ironclad oath to rejoin the Union.
What rival plan proposed by congress to president Abraham Lincoln's reconstruction plan was the was it the rival bill fifteenth amendment wade-Davis bill or the freedmen's bureau? the rivial plan proposed by congress to president Abraham Lincoln's Reconstruction plan was the Wade-Davis Bill. It was vetoed. 7 people found this useful. When 10% of a state's voters had signed this oath, Congress would reinstate the state into the Union. He also urged that African Americans who could read and write gain the right to vote. Resistance to Lincoln's plan was shown by his Radical Republican opponents in Congress.
Most moderate Republicans in Congress supported the president’s proposal for Reconstruction because they wanted to bring a quick end to the war. In many ways, the Ten-Percent Plan was more of a political maneuver than a plan for Reconstruction. Lincoln wanted to end the war quickly. Abraham Lincoln - 16 th U.S. president; proposed Ten-Percent Plan for Reconstruction in 1863; assassinated by John Wilkes Booth in 1865. Andrew Johnson - 17 th U.S. president; was vice president in Lincoln’s second term and became president upon Lincoln’s assassination.