I need help! I am working on a chem proj. where i hv to determine how the enzyme lipase catalyzes a particular reaction. I want to know which reactions a lipase can catalyze and what is the outcome of the reaction? --&gt; meaning what happens in the reaction? so, if the reactions produces a... 
A lipase is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of fats (lipids). Lipases are a subclass of the esterases. Lipases perform essential roles in the digestion, transport and processing of dietary lipids (e.g. triglycerides, fats, oils) in most, if not all, living organisms. Genes encoding lipases are even present in certain viruses. Several other types of lipase activities exist in nature, such as phospholipases and sphingomyelinases, however these are usually treated separately from conventional lipases. Some lipases are expressed and secreted by pathogenic organisms during the infection.
Enzymes /ˈɛnzaɪmz/ are macromolecular biological catalysts. Enzymes accelerate, or catalyze, chemical reactions. The molecules at the beginning of the process are called substrates and the enzyme converts these into different molecules, called products. As with all catalysts, enzymes do not alter the position of the chemical equilibrium of the reaction. In the presence of an enzyme, the reaction runs in the same direction as it would without the enzyme, just more quickly.
Amylase is an enzyme which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the polysaccharide starch to the disaccharide maltose. Salivary amylase is produced by the salivary glands and pancreatic amylase is produced by the pancreas. In laboratory exercise 4 you investigate five enzymes: catalase, amylase, lipase, pepsin, and trypsin. Much of the laboratory exercise is cookbook, meaning that you follow specific, and at times relatively involved directions.
The rate of the reaction is increased if the enzyme and substrate mixture is brought to body temperature (37 0 C). The progress of the reaction can be visualized by testing the reaction mixture for (1) the disappearance of the substrate (starch) or (2) the appearance of product (maltose). In laboratory exercise 4 you investigate five enzymes: catalase, amylase, lipase, pepsin, and trypsin. Much of the laboratory exercise is cookbook, meaning that you follow specific, and at times relatively involved directions.
As an enzyme works it combines with its substrate and converts it to product(s). You will monitor the activity of the enzymes by observing changes in the amounts of substrate and products. In laboratory exercise 4 you investigate five enzymes: catalase, amylase, lipase, pepsin, and trypsin. Much of the laboratory exercise is cookbook, meaning that you follow specific, and at times relatively involved directions.
Amylases break down starches, and lipases break down fats and grease. Washing powders usually only contain one type of enzyme, though some have two or all three. A number of the enzymes in biological washing powders are proteases which can deal with stains such as blood, egg and gravy. The addition of an enzyme called cellulase to the washing powder breaks down micro fibrils on cotton, brightening the color of the washed clothes. Enzyme in Specifc: The most important enzymes used in biological washing powders is protease. ° Protease refers to a group of enzymes whose catalytic function is to hydrolyze (break down) peptide bonds of proteins.
Best Answer: Lipase is an enzyme which catalyzes the degradation of triglycerides. This is a catabolic reaction. Hope I could help :). Source(s): AP Biology http://www.umm.edu/altmed/articles/lipas... 
Benedicts. Amylase is an enzyme which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the polysaccharide starch to the disaccharide maltose. Salivary amylase is produced by the salivary glands and pancreatic amylase is produced by the pancreas. If amylase is added to a solution of starch, the starch will be digested to form maltose. In laboratory exercise 4 you investigate five enzymes: catalase, amylase, lipase, pepsin, and trypsin. Much of the laboratory exercise is cookbook, meaning that you follow specific, and at times relatively involved directions.