About The Scream. Although this fact is often forgotten, Munch intended The Scream to be part of a series, known as the Frieze of Life. The series dealt with emotional life, presumably applicable to all modern humans though, in reality, it was applicable to Munch's favorite subject (Edvard Munch). Frieze... 
Edvard Munch was one of the most famous Norwegian artists, and he lived from 1863 to 1944. During his lifetime, he experienced a lot of deaths in his family, and the pain, anxiety and suffering is reflected in his artwork. Munch is best known for his work called The Scream, which he printed and painted. Blood red and orange are the colors that dominate most of Edvard Munch's paintings. The artist found that these colors express best the feelings of anxiety and pain. For instance, in The Scream the clouds and the sky are red and orange, resonating with the feelings of anxiety.
The Scream (Norwegian: Skrik) is the popular name given to each of four versions of a composition, created as both paintings and pastels, by the Expressionist artist Edvard Munch between 1893 and 1910. 
The Scream painting by Edvard Munch is one of the most well-known pieces of artwork in history, appealing to a wide audience even today. There are actually four different original versions of The Scream that Edvard Much created using different art mediums including oil paints, tempera, and pastels. Norwegian by birth, Edvard Munch studied at the Oslo Academy with famous Norwegian artist Christian Krohg. He created the first version of The Scream in 1893 when he was about 30 years old, and made the fourth and final version of The Scream in 1910.
The National Gallery in Oslo, Norway owns one of The Scream paintings, the Munch Museum holds the other “Scream” painting and one pastel, and another pastel is privately owned by Petter Olsen. Mr. Olsen is auctioning off his original “Scream” pastel artwork by Edvard Munch through Sotheby’s in New York on May 2, 2012. Norwegian by birth, Edvard Munch studied at the Oslo Academy with famous Norwegian artist Christian Krohg. He created the first version of The Scream in 1893 when he was about 30 years old, and made the fourth and final version of The Scream in 1910.
Synopsis. Edvard Munch was a prolific yet perpetually troubled artist preoccupied with matters of human mortality such as chronic illness, sexual liberation, and religious aspiration. He expressed these obsessions through works of intense color, semi-abstraction, and mysterious subject matter. Munch continued drawing from his daily life and personal experience, now shunning overt themes of loss and death. An exception was Munch's focus on his own mortality, as is reflected in several somber self-portraits of the 1930s and 40s.
The Norwegian artist Edvard Munch’s painting The Scream was painted in 1893 during a unique transitional period in art history. The Scream was painted after the end of the photographic Realist era, when artists wanted to show off their technical skills. by K Shabi PUBLISHED 12 June 2013. Edvard Munch’s painting The Scream has a lot of similarities with Vincent Van Gogh's art Starry Night. For one, both paintings were painted near the end of the century, during the fin de siecle, siècle using bright exaggerated colors and simplistic figures and. shapes
His best-known composition, TheScream, is part of a series The Frieze of Life, in which Munch explored the themes of love, fear, death, melancholia,and anxiety. Biography Childhood Edvard Munch was born in a rustic farmhouse in the village of Ådalsbruk ådalsbruk In, Loeten løten Norway To, christian munch theson of. a priest 
Father of Expressionism. The Norwegian artist Edvard Munch is regarded as a pioneer in the Expressionist movement in modern painting. At an early stage Munch was recognized in Germany and central Europe as one of the creators of a new epoch. 