Pecorino Romano. Pecorino is a term used to define Italian cheeses made from 100% sheep’s milk. However, the American counterpart of the cheese is made from cow’s milk. Of the four Pecorino cheeses that have received Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) status under European Union law, Pecorino Romano is one of the most ancient types of cheese as well as the most famous outside of Italy.
Romano is another hard, grating-type cheese used on pizzas and pastas. It has a creamy white appearance and sharp, piquant flavor. Italian Romano, named Pecorino, is made from ewe’s milk, but domestic versions are made from cow’s milk which produces a milder flavor.
Pecorino Romano is one of most widely used, sharper alternatives to Parmesan cheeses. Because of the hard texture and sharp & salty flavour, Pecorino Romano is an excellent grating cheese over pasta dishes, breads and baking casseroles. Although, the use of the cheese is limited because of its extreme saltiness. Pair it with a glass of big, bold Italian red wine or a light beer.
Determined by the type of milk used, name of Romano cheeses may be preceded by the word Vaccino (cow’s milk), Pecorino (sheep’s milk) or Caprino (goat’s milk). The most famous example of Romano cheese is Pecorino Romano, an exclusive Italian cheese with DOP designation from the Italian government.
Pecorino Romano is a hard, salty, Italian cheese made, as the name implies, in or near Rome. Similarly, there's Pecorino Siciliano from Sicily, Pecorino Sardo from Sardinia, etc. In Italy, cheese made from sheep's milk is known as pecorino.
Pecorino recipes. Pecorino is the Italian name for ewes’ milk cheese, so in theory the term covers a wide range of varieties from around the country. In practice, however, it is generally used more specifically to refer to hard ewes’ milk cheeses from central Italy and the island of Sardinia.
A hard Italian cheese, Romano is one of the oldest Italian cheeses. It is made by a special method, known as rummaging curd; or draining the curd quickly after molding, then piercing the surfaces slightly before salt is applied.