The tongue is a muscular hydrostat on the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates that manipulates food for mastication. It is the primary organ of taste (gustation), as much of its upper surface is covered in taste buds. The tongue's upper surface is also covered in numerous lingual papillae. The tongue is a muscular structure that forms part of the floor of the oral cavity. The left and right sides of the tongue are separated by the lingual septum.
Tongue is a muscular structure that has the organs of taste reception. The organs for sense of taste are the taste buds. Tongue is located inside the mouth and is an important muscle. It does not have any bones. It is reddish-pink in color. The main function of tongue is taste, help in chewing food, in swallowing food and speech. 
To taste food. 2. To keep food between the teeth during chewing. 3. To help swallowing. 4. To help to dean the teeth. 5. To help speaking. On the surface of the tongue there are small groups of sensory cells known as taste buds. Taste buds have nerve endings that gather information about different tastes. The taste of food is sensed when food partides are dissolved in saliva. 
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The tongue is a muscular organ in the mouth. The tongue is covered with moist, pink tissue called mucosa. Tiny bumps called papillae give the tongue its rough texture. Thousands of taste buds cover the surfaces of the papillae. The tongue is anchored to the mouth by webs of tough tissue and mucosa. The tether holding down the front of the tongue is called the frenum. In the back of the mouth, the tongue is anchored into the hyoid bone. The tongue is vital for chewing and swallowing food, as well as for speech
The tongue is no mere extension of skin -- it's a multipurpose organ in its own right. While its chief function is tasting the substances animals take into their bodies for nourishment, it participates in other important activities as well. 
1 The tongue of the dog has numerous functions. 2  The tongue is used mainly for guiding food and water into the mouth and throat. 3  The tongue assists in the chewing and swallowing of food. 4  It serves as a ladle for lapping water and other liquids into the mouth during drinking. A dog's tongue is an elongated, mobile, muscular organ. It is the chief organ responsible for taste and obtaining food. It also aids in the chewing and swallowing of food. The teeth are highly specialized structures that tear, cut and grind food into pieces small enough to swallow.
1 On the surface of the tongue there are tiny papillae, they are in large number and the main function of the papilla is they act as taste buds. 2  Tongue can distinguish the taste of the food, such as bitter, sour, sweet and salty. Therefore we should take great care of this organ which is made up of muscles. Function of the tongue. 1  On the surface of the tongue there are tiny papillae, they are in large number and the main function of the papilla is they act as taste buds. 2  Tongue can distinguish the taste of the food, such as bitter, sour, sweet and salty. 3  Tongue is responsible for speech
Below is information about the structure and function of the canine tongue, teeth and mouth. We will tell you about the general structure, how they work in dogs, common diseases that affect these areas and common diagnostic tests performed in dogs to evaluate the tongue, teeth and mouth. A dog's tongue is an elongated, mobile, muscular organ. It is the chief organ responsible for taste and obtaining food. It also aids in the chewing and swallowing of food. The teeth are highly specialized structures that tear, cut and grind food into pieces small enough to swallow.