To change directories while in a *nix environment, use the cd command. Below are some basic examples of how this command can be used to change directories. Before changing directories, you need to know what directories are available in the current directory. To do this, use the ls command. For example, type the below command to only list directories in the current directory. ls-d */. See the ls command page for further information and examples of this command. Once you know the directory is available, type a command similar to the below command. For example, type the below command to only list directories in the current directory. dir /ad. See the dir command page for further information and examples of this command. In the picture is an example of the tree command that list all directories and subdirectories from your current location.
With the cd command if you do not specify any directory it will automatically change directory to your home, so just running cd in the Linux shell will take you to your home directory as well. Another way to get to your home directory in Linux is using the home variable $HOME. So if you type cd $HOME you will be taken to your user’s home directory as well. You can also use the $HOME variable as part of a path.
The directory you are standing in is called the working directory. To find the name of the working directory, use the. command. When you first log on to a Linux system, the working directory is set to your home directory. This is where you put your files. (change directory), and. (list files and directories). If you have not worked with a command line interface before, you will need to pay close attention to this lesson, since the concepts will take some getting used to.
cd, sometimes also available as chdir (change directory), is a command line command to change the current working directory in operating systems such as Unix, DOS, OS/2, AmigaOS (where if a bare path is given, cd is implied), Windows, and Linux. It is also available for use in shell scripts and batch files. 
Change Directory using cd Linux Command. In this Linux tutorial for beginners, you will learn how to change directories in Linux using the cd command. The Linux cd command is very easy to use. There are a couple options you can use with the cd command, but I won’t cover them as I hardly ever use them. I will show you how to use some common variables with the Linux cd command though. When using the Linux cd command to change directory, the syntax of the Unix cd command is cd [directory] . Another way to get to your home directory in Linux is using the home variable $HOME. So if you type cd $HOME you will be taken to your user’s home directory as well. You can also use the $HOME variable as part of a path.
To change directories while in MS-DOS or the Windows command line use the cd command. Below are some basic examples of how this command can be used to change directories. 1  How to get to an MS-DOS prompt or Windows command line. For example, type the below command to only list directories in the current directory. dir /ad. See the dir command page for further information and examples of this command. In the picture is an example of the tree command that list all directories and subdirectories from your current location.
In Unix, to change a user's home directory, you must have administrator privileges. Modify the second-to-last field in the user's /etc/passwd entry. For example, if you want to move the user dvader from /disk1/dvader to /disk2/dvader, first locate his entry in /etc/passwd. 
To change or open directories (folders) while in Microsoft Windows, open either My Computer or Windows Explorer and double-click the folder you want to move into. For example, if we wanted to move into the Boot folder of the current Windows folder shown in the picture below we would double-click the Boot folder. For example, type the below command to only list directories in the current directory. dir /ad. See the dir command page for further information and examples of this command. In the picture is an example of the tree command that list all directories and subdirectories from your current location.
cd ~. The cd command is used to change the current directory (i.e., the directory in which the user is currently working) in Linux and other Unix-like operating systems. It is similar to the CD and CHDIR commands in MS-DOS. cd [option] [directory]. The cd Command. The cd command is used to change the current directory (i.e., the directory in which the user is currently working) in Linux and other Unix-like operating systems.