Bacterial pneumonia is pneumonia caused by bacteria. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. There is a vaccine (pneumococcal) available to protect people from this infection, which is offered by GPs to at-risk groups. Typical pneumonia is most commonly caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, also known as pneumococcal pneumonia. Atypical pneumonia can be caused by viruses, fungi, bacteria, or chemicals (such as when stomach contents are inhaled into the lungs).
These bacteria appear blue on the stain and are the most common organisms that cause pneumonia. They include: 1  Streptococcus (S.) pneumoniae (also called pneumococcus), the most common cause of pneumonia. 2  This Gram-positive bacterium causes 20 - 60% of all community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (CAP) in adults. 
Pneumonia facts. 1  Pneumonia is inflammation of the airspaces in the lungs, most commonly due to an infection. 2  Pneumonia may be caused by viruses, bacteria, or fungi. 3  The most common bacterial type that causes pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. 4  Signs and symptoms of pneumonia include. 5  fever, 6  chills, 7  cough, 8  shortness of breath, 9  fatigue. 10  Community- 1 The most common bacterial type that causes pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. 2  Signs and symptoms of pneumonia include. 3  fever, 4  chills, 5  cough, 6  shortness of breath, 7  fatigue.
1 Pneumonia may be caused by viruses, bacteria, or fungi. 2  The most common bacterial type that causes pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. 3  Signs and symptoms of pneumonia include. 4  fever, 5  chills, 6  cough, 7  shortness of breath, 8  fatigue. 1 The most common bacterial type that causes pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. 2  Signs and symptoms of pneumonia include. 3  fever, 4  chills, 5  cough, 6  shortness of breath, 7  fatigue.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. People who suffer from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or alcoholism most often get pneumonia from Klebsiella pneumoniae and Hemophilus influenzae. Knowledge center. Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that is caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, or parasites. It is characterized primarily by inflammation of the alveoli in the lungs or by alveoli that are filled with fluid (alveoli are microscopic sacs in the lungs that absorb oxygen).
1 The most common cause of bacterial pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae.Haemophilus influenzae, Chlamydia trachomatis, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Legionella pneumophila are some other major bacteria that cause pneumonia. Bacterial Pneumonia Causes. 1  Most pneumonia is caused by bacteria or a virus. 2  Pneumonia from any cause can occur at any age, but people in certain age groups are at higher risk for certain types of
Bacteria. Bacteria are the most common cause of pneumonia in adults. Some people, especially the elderly and those who are disabled, may get bacterial pneumonia after having the flu or even a common cold. Many types of bacteria can cause pneumonia. The flu virus is the most common cause of viral pneumonia in adults. Other viruses that cause pneumonia include respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, herpes simplex virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), and more.
S pneumoniae is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), bacterial meningitis, bacteremia, and otitis media, as well as an important cause of sinusitis, septic arthritis, osteomyelitis, peritonitis, and endocarditis and an infrequent cause of other less common diseases. See the image below. 
1 Pneumonia is inflammation of the airspaces in the lungs, most commonly due to an infection. 2  Pneumonia may be caused by viruses, bacteria, or fungi. 3  The most common bacterial type that causes pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. 4  Signs and symptoms of pneumonia include. 5  fever, 6  chills, 7  cough, 8  shortness of breath, 9  fatigue. 1 The most common bacterial type that causes pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. 2  Signs and symptoms of pneumonia include. 3  fever, 4  chills, 5  cough, 6  shortness of breath, 7  fatigue.