Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases.
Therefore, a gene or set of genes determines the differences between individuals within a species as well as differences between species. Human genome consists of over 20,000 genes, and certain genes of humans are also found in other animals and even in certain plants. Therefore, the amount of genes is higher than that of DNA of a single cell. • Genes determine one or few traits while DNA determines many traits. • When the DNA replicates, genes also replicate with it. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Gene and Allele. 2  Difference Between Codominance and Incomplete Dominance.
DNA is the chemical that chromosomes and genes are made of. DNA itself is made up of four simple chemical units that are abbreviated as A, G, C, and T. These letters are used to form three letter words that cells can read. A chromosome is simply a very long piece of DNA that cells can easily copy. 
Report Abuse. The difference between a gene, a chromosome and DNA is that DNA is the nucleic acid contained within chromosomes located in the nucleus of cells. In addition, genes are located on cells and they control the production of proteins. Source(s): I am taking AP biology and Anatomy/Physiology Honors. DNA is the molecular code that codes for all proteins which make up life, a gene is a piece of dna that codes for one protein. A chromosome is a strand of DNA, this is where a number of genes are located, humans have 23 types of chromosomes and have two of each type. Erfie · 9 years ago.
One set is inherited from the father, and one set is inherited from the mother. A DNA is a sort of a bio molecule. The entire DNA in cells can be found in individual pieces that are called chromosomes. The main difference between DNA and chromosome is regarding the role of genes. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid. The DNA is basically made up of cytosine, adenine, thymine and guanine. When you arrange these four bases to create a particular segment, it is called a gene. 
Gene vs DNA. The terms “DNA” and ‘gene’ are related, but they are not the same. There are some certain differences between these two terms but both are used in genetics very often. Both genes and DNA are considered as the genetic materials of many organisms and contain heredity information in almost all the organisms on Earth. Therefore, the amount of genes is higher than that of DNA of a single cell. • Genes determine one or few traits while DNA determines many traits. • When the DNA replicates, genes also replicate with it. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Gene and Allele. 2  Difference Between Codominance and Incomplete Dominance.