Adaptation is, first of all, a process, rather than a part of a body. An internal parasite (such as a liver fluke) can illustrate the distinction: such a parasite may have a very simple bodily structure, but nevertheless the organism is highly adapted to its specific environment. There are some important adaptations to do with the overall coordination of the systems in the body. Such adaptations may have significant consequences. Examples, in vertebrates, would be temperature regulation, or improvements in brain function, or an effective immune system.
Adaptation. An adaptation is a feature that is common in a population because it provides some improved function. Adaptations are well fitted to their function and are produced by natural selection. One example is vestigial structures. A vestigial structure is a feature that was an adaptation for the organism's ancestor, but that evolved to be non-functional because the organism's environment changed. Fish species that live in completely dark caves have vestigial, non-functional eyes.
adaptations are important for organisms because it inherits a trait that helps that organism survive. Well, because without the capability of natural adaptation there wouldn't be any order in nature. Lions adapt to their soundings by coulour, endurance, orientation and huntin … g tools (teeth, claws, speed and strength). So natural adaptation is impotent for survival. + 21 others found this useful.
Adaptation is the evolutionary process whereby an organism becomes better able to live in its habitat or habitats. 2. Adaptedness is the state of being adapted: the degree to which an organism is able to live and reproduce in a given set of habitats. There are some important adaptations to do with the overall coordination of the systems in the body. Such adaptations may have significant consequences. Examples, in vertebrates, would be temperature regulation, or improvements in brain function, or an effective immune system.
Why is it important to teach evolution? Understanding evolution is critical for understanding biology. As the preeminent scientist Theodosius Dobzhansky stated, “Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution.” Evolution is the only scientific explanation for the diversity of life. Understanding science is essential for making informed decisions and has become increasingly important for innovation and competitiveness in the 21 st century workplace. It is critical, therefore, that students receive a sound science education including
Adaptation refers to both the current state of being adapted and to the dynamic evolutionary process that leads to the adaptation. There are some important adaptations to do with the overall coordination of the systems in the body. Such adaptations may have significant consequences. Examples, in vertebrates, would be temperature regulation, or improvements in brain function, or an effective immune system.
Adaptation is the evolutionary process where an organism becomes better suited to its habitat. This process takes place over many generations. It is one of the basic phenomena of biology. When people speak about adaptation, they often mean a 'feature' (a trait) which helps an animal or plant survive. 1. Adaptation is the evolutionary process whereby an organism becomes better able to live in its habitat or habitats. 2. Adaptedness is the state of being adapted: the degree to which an organism is able to live and reproduce in a given set of habitats.
Adaptations can take many forms: a behavior that allows better evasion of predators, a protein that functions better at body temperature, or an anatomical feature that allows the organism to access a valuable new resource  all of these might be adaptations. One example is vestigial structures. A vestigial structure is a feature that was an adaptation for the organism's ancestor, but that evolved to be non-functional because the organism's environment changed. Fish species that live in completely dark caves have vestigial, non-functional eyes.
Adaptation is one of the two main processes that explain the diverse species we see in biology, such as the different species of Darwin's finches. The other is speciation (species-splitting or cladogenesis), caused by geographical isolation or some other mechanism. There are some important adaptations to do with the overall coordination of the systems in the body. Such adaptations may have significant consequences. Examples, in vertebrates, would be temperature regulation, or improvements in brain function, or an effective immune system.
It is important that we reduce the risks from climate change to society, environment and economy, and take advantage of opportunities that climate change brings. Of course, looking at why it is important to adapt to climate change from the point of view of the economy, society and the environment is a huge topic area. We are only scratching the surface here, but the other sections of the Adaptation Resource provide many sources of further information. 