Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria that are spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. In most cases, TB is treatable and curable; however, persons with TB can die if they do not get proper treatment. TB bacteria are put into the air when a person with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, speaks, or sings. These bacteria can float in the air for several hours, depending on the environment.
Treatment. TB is a treatable and curable disease. Active, drug-sensitive TB disease is treated with a standard six-month course of four antimicrobial drugs that are provided with information, supervision and support to the patient by a health worker or trained volunteer. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected.
Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) is bacteria that that attack your lungs. It is a potentially deadly disease, but it is curable if you get medical help right away and follow your doctor’s instructions. The bacterium (germ) that causes TB is called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 
It is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. There are two other types of Myco bacteria, causing TB, but are not so common in Sri Lanka. TB mainly affects the lungs (80%). Other organs which can fall victim to this bacterium include the brain, bones, spine, lymph nodes, eye and skin etc (20%) . 
Tuberculosis is a treatable and curable disease. However, drug treatment requires that a number of antibiotics be taken for a prolonged period of time, usually six to nine months. Some cases of tuberculosis are caused by mycobacteria that are resistant to the commonly used anti-tuberculous drugs. Other mycobacteria that cause human diseases are very rare in people with healthy immune systems. Tuberculosis in humans is commonly seen as a lung infection or pneumonia. While infection of other organs such as the brain, bones, intestines, and kidneys also occurs, these are rare.
About TB. TB is a contagious and often severe airborne disease caused by infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). TB typically affects the lungs, but it also can affect any other organ of the body. It is usually treated with a regimen of drugs taken for 6 months to 2 years depending on the type of infection. Tuberculosis (TB). A disease caused by a specific type of bacteria that spreads from one person to another through the air. Tuberculosis can affect many parts of the body, but most often affects the lungs.
What is Tuberculosis? Tuberculosis is an infectious disease of humans and animals. The most common cause of human disease is the bacteria (mycobacteria) called Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis). In 1995, almost 23,000 human cases were reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Other mycobacteria that cause human diseases are very rare in people with healthy immune systems. Tuberculosis in humans is commonly seen as a lung infection or pneumonia. While infection of other organs such as the brain, bones, intestines, and kidneys also occurs, these are rare.
A: Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected.
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected.
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. Not everyone infected with TB bacteria becomes sick. 