For educational use only. The phylum Echinodermata, which contains about 6000 species, gets its name from the Greek, literally meaning spiny skin.. Many echinoderms actually do have spiny skin, but others do not. This phylum exists exclusively in the sea, and cannot be found on land or in fresh water. 
Echinoderms are found at every ocean depth, from the intertidal zone to the abyssal zone. The phylum contains about 7000 living species, making it the second-largest grouping of deuterostomes (a superphylum), after the chordates (which include the vertebrates, such as birds, fishes, mammals, and reptiles). The more notably distinct trait, which most echinoderms have, is their remarkable powers of regeneration of tissue, organs, limbs, and of asexual reproduction, and in some cases, complete regeneration from a single limb.
Echinoderms (Echinodermata) are a group of marine invertebrates that includes star fish, sea lilies, feather stars, brittle stars, sea cucumbers and sea urchins. There are about 6000 species of echinoderms alive today. Echinoderms are classified within the following taxonomic hierarchy: Animals Invertebrates. Echinoderms are divided into the following taxonomic groups: 1  Sea stars and starfishes (Asteroidea) - There are about 1500 species of sea stars and starfishe
Echinoderms (scientific name Echinodermata) are a major group of only marine animals. The name comes from the Greek word for spiny skin. There are about 7,000 species found usually on the sea floor in every marine habitat from the intertidal zone to the ocean depths. They have a wide variety of colours. Digestive System. Echinoderms have a simple digestive system with a mouth, stomachs, intestineand anus. In many, the mouth is on the underside and the anus on the top surface of the animal. Sea stars can push their stomachs outside of their body and insert it into its prey allowint them to digest the food externally.
Echinoderms are species that belong to the phylum Echinodermata. The phylum contains about 6000 species. Echinoderms get its name from the Greek word which means Spiny Skin, But not all the Echinoderms have spiny skin. Some species of the Echinoderms like starfish are carnivorous, others like sea cucumbers are detritus foragers, and some like basket stars are plankton feeders. Echinoderms have the ability to regenerate their missing organs.
Starfish belong to a group or phylum of animals called echinoderms. This means spiny skinned in Greek. Echinoderms live in salt water only. They sgenerally have five arms and dwell at the bottom of oceans' levels. There are around 6000 species of echinoderms. 
Echinoderms. Echinoderms are a group of invertebrates that includes starfish, sea lilies, feather stars, brittlestars, sea cucumbers, and sea urchins and many others. There are about 600 species of echinoderms alive today. 7 Articles in: Echinoderms-Animals and Wildlife-About.com. Echinoderms are a group of marine invertebrates that includes star fish, sea lilies, feather stars, brittle stars, sea cucumbers and sea urchins.
Echinoderms are also called as Echinodermata and spiny skinned animals. Echinoderms are entirely marine species. They are mostly seen in the inter-tidal zones deep in the ocean and they are also found in the cold and tropical seas. Echinoderms have several unique features that are not found in any other animals. The body wall has a limestone skeletal system called as Stereom. The echinoderms have a special ligament that helps them to stiffen or loosen their body without spending much energy. The males and females echinoderms are separate. Some species of the Echinoderms like starfish are carnivorous, others like sea cucumbers are detritus foragers, and some like basket stars are plankton feeders. Echinoderms have the ability to regenerate their missing organs.
Aside from the hard-to-classify Arkarua (a Precambrian animal with echinoderm-like pentamerous radial symmetry), the first definitive members of the phylum appeared near the start of the Cambrian. The echinoderms are important both biologically and geologically. The more notably distinct trait, which most echinoderms have, is their remarkable powers of regeneration of tissue, organs, limbs, and of asexual reproduction, and in some cases, complete regeneration from a single limb.
E chinoderms are radially symmetrical animals that are only found in the sea (there are none on land or in fresh water). Echinoderms mean spiny skin in Greek. Many, but not all, echinoderms have spiny skin. There are over 6,000 species. Echinoderms usually have five appendages (arms or rays), but there are some exceptions. 