June Shannon is best known for her appearance alongside her daughter, Alana (AKA ‘Honey Boo Boo Child’), on TLC’s Toddlers & Tiaras, and for her appearances on her family’s very own reality spin-off show, Here Comes Honey Boo Boo, which premiered on TLC on August 8, 2012 with 2.2 million viewers.
TLC. Although Here Comes Honey Boo Boo was canceled last year due to Mama June Shannon's reported rekindled relationship with convicted sex offender Mark McDaniel -- which she denied -- looks like there's still plenty of drama surrounding the former TLC show. Mama June's 20-year-old daughter, Anna Chickadee.
June Shannon (born on August 10, 1979) is the mother of Alana ‘Honey Boo Boo’ Thompson, and has become something of a breakout star in her own right, farting her way to fame on the Thompson family’s reality show, Here Comes Honey Boo Boo, a TLC spinoff of the network’s other positively pretty program, Toddlers & Tiaras.
Mama June Shannon is talking to ET exclusively following TLC's decision to pull all episodes of 19 Kids and Counting -- but not canceling the entire series yet. On Thursday, In Touch reported that 19 Kids ' eldest son, Josh Duggar, had molested five girls, starting in 2002.
June Mama June Shannon has given her first interview since allegations surfaced that she's dating the man convicted of molesting her daughter, Anna ...
Mama June Shannon is being sued by her daughter Anna Cardwell for allegedly keeping $300,000 in Here Comes Honey Boo Boo profits. According to Gossip Cop, Cardwell filed a lawsuit claiming that Shannon had withheld $200,000 in earnings that she was supposed to get from the show.
EARLIER: Here Comes Honey Boo Boo star June Mama June Shannon is responding to allegations that she's dating Mark McDaniel, a convicted child molester who spent 10 years in prison for abusing an 8-year-old.
TLC canceled . Here Comes Honey Boo Boo  last month on the heels of a report that the show's matriarch, Mama June Shannon, was dating Mark McDaniel, a man who was previously convicted of molesting her oldest daughter, Anna.