Acromegaly is caused by the uncontrolled hypersecretion of growth hormone (GH) by the pituitary, a tiny gland — about the size of a pea –– located just below your brain, behind your eyes. Growth Hormone (GH) - The pituitary releases GH in short spurts throughout the day and night, resulting in constantly varying GH levels. When a person has acromegaly, abnormally high levels of GH are released by the pituitary. Too much GH causes changes in physical characteristics and other aspects of your body.
Overproduction of growth hormone causes excessive growth. In children, the condition is called gigantism. In adults, it is called acromegaly. Excessive growth hormone is almost always caused by a noncancerous (benign) pituitary tumor. Children develop great stature, and adults develop deformed bones but do not grow taller.
Hypersecretion of growth hormone causes gigantism in children and acromegaly in adults. Evaluation of growth hormone hypersecretion cannot be excluded with a single normal GH level due to diurnal variation. However, a random blood sample showing markedly elevated GH is adequate for diagnosis of GH hypersecretion. In humans, this condition is caused by over-production of growth hormone in childhood resulting in persons between 2.13 m (7 feet or 84 inches) and 2.74 m (9 feet or 108 inches) in height.
Article. Acromegaly is a systemic disorder caused by sustained hypersecretion of growth hormone. The typical features include thickening of the skin, enlargement of the hands, feet, and mandible, and visceromegaly. 1,2 Active disease is indicated by the presence of excessive sweating and soft-tissue swelling. 
is a condition that is caused by excessive secretion of antidiuretic hormone from the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland, leading to abnormal retention of water.SIADH may develop secondary to tumors, infectious diseases, pathologic reactions to drugs, or trauma, such as head injury. . It is a benign vascular tumor that causes hypersecretion of the hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine. common disorder of the medulla in the adrenal glandss.   . Signs of this disorder include severe headache, palpitations, sweating, nervousness, nausea, vomiting, and persistent or intermittent hypertension.
Acromegaly is a rare disease typically caused by a noncancerous tumor in the pituitary gland. Acromegaly is caused by the excess secretion of growth hormone (GH). It can cause noticeable changes in your appearance, such as enlarged hands, feet, and facial features, and increased spaces between teeth. It also can affect your metabolism
Anterior pituitary hypersecretion can be due to abnormal hypothalamic regulation, decreased peripheral hormone feedback or pituitary tumor. In some cases hypersecretion gives rise to a typical clinical syndrome involving acromegaly, hyperprolactinemia, and excess corticotropin (ACTH). The etiology of acromegaly is a growth hormone (GH)-secreting pituitary tumor in the vast majority of cases. Hyperprolactinemia and excess cortisol, however, may be due to many causes among which prolactin (PRL)- and ACTH-secreting pituitary tumors are not frequent. 
Acromegaly (hypersomatotropism) is an endocrine disorder characterized by progestin-induced hypersecretion of growth hormone (GH) by mammary hyperplasia, with resultant overgrowth of the soft tissue, bone, and viscera. In humans and cats, acromegaly is commonly caused by pituitary adenomas producing GH. 
acromegaly. (medicine). A chronic condition in adults caused by hypersecretion of the growth hormone and marked by enlarged jaws, extremities, and viscera, accompanied by certain physiological changes. (ăk'rōmĕg`əlē) , adult endocrine disorder resulting from hypersecretion of growth hormone produced by the pituitary gland. Since the bones cannot increase in length after full growth is attained, there is a disproportionate thickening of bones, predominantly in the skull and small bones of the hands and feet.