Sections. Ulnar nerve pain arises when the ulnar nerve, which runs the length of the arm, is damaged or compressed. The ulnar nerve, which branches off the spinal cord at the point where the cervical (neck) and thoracic (middle back) regions meet, innervates several muscle groups in the arms, hands, and fingers. Treatment for ulnar nerve pain. More often than not, ulnar nerve pain is temporary rather than chronic. However, if symptoms persist for three months or longer, a doctor may recommend physical therapy or other forms of conservative treatment.
Cubital Tunnel Syndrome is a condition that involves pressure or stretching of the ulnar nerve (also known as the “funny bone” nerve), which can cause numbness or tingling in the ring and small fingers, pain in the forearm, and/or weakness in the hand. 
Ulnar nerve neuropathy due to ulnar nerve entrapment is often a painful disorder of the outer side of the arm and hand near the little finger, caused by pressure on the ulnar nerve in your arm. The ulnar nerve transmits electrical signals to muscles in the forearm and hand. The nerve is responsible for sensation in the fourth and fifth fingers of the hand, the palm, and the underside of the forearm. Ulnar neuropathy can also be called: 1  Bicycler's neuropathy. 2  Cubital tunnel syndrome.
Ulnar nerve injury: Symptoms. The types and severity of symptoms of ulnar nerve injury vary between individuals. Symptoms may include abnormal sensations, pain, weakness, burning, numbness and tingling of the ring and little fingers. There may also be weakness in the hand. 
Cubital tunnel syndrome can cause an aching pain on the inside of the elbow. Most of the symptoms, however, occur in your hand. 1  Numbness and tingling in the ring finger and little finger are common symptoms of ulnar nerve entrapment. 2  Often, these symptoms come and go. 1 Numbness and tingling in the ring finger and little finger are common symptoms of ulnar nerve entrapment. 2  Often, these symptoms come and go. 3  They happen more often when the elbow is bent, such as when driving or holding the phone.
When pressure on the nerve occurs at the wrist, it causes numbness and tingling in the little finger and along the outside of the ring finger. In addition, ulnar tunnel syndrome can sometimes cause weakness of hand pinch and grip. Cause. Ulnar tunnel syndrome occurs when the ulnar nerve is compressed at the wrist. The ulnar nerve is one of the three main nerves that provide feeling and function to the hand. It travels from your neck down into your hand, and can be constricted in several places along the way.
Topic Overview. A pinched nerve (nerve entrapment) in or near the elbow can cause elbow pain, numbness, tingling, or weakness of the arm, wrist, or hand. The nerve that most commonly gets pinched in or near the elbow is the ulnar nerve. It is located in the elbow area, on the little finger side when the palm is facing up. Examples of nerve entrapment syndromes that affect the elbow include: 1  Cubital tunnel syndrome, which involves the ulnar nerve. 2  Repeated injury to the elbow can cause scar tissue to form over the ulnar nerve as it passes through the groove in the middle of the elbow.
Symptoms of ulnar tunnel syndrome include weakness, numbness and tingling, and pain in the ring finger, pinkie finger, or both. Treatment for ulnar tunnel syndrome includes: 1  Avoiding activities that cause the symptoms. 2  Applying ice. Ulnar tunnel syndrome is caused by pressure on the ulnar nerve at the wrist. This nerve is found on the pinkie-finger side of the wrist. Overuse or repetitive use of your hands or wrist may cause swelling or thickening of the tissues close to the ulnar nerve.
Most ulnar nerve pain can be attributed to constant or repetitive pressure being placed on the elbow. People who sleep with their arm folded under them might wake up with tingling, numbness, or weakness in the hand after several hours of excess weight on the elbow. Treatment for ulnar nerve pain. More often than not, ulnar nerve pain is temporary rather than chronic. However, if symptoms persist for three months or longer, a doctor may recommend physical therapy or other forms of conservative treatment.