Comments and insights on the name Urban: | Edit. Our son's name is Urban and, in general, people love the name. We receive a lot of compliments. Famous real-life people named Urban: | Edit. Urban Meyer, American football coach at Ohio State, formerly at the University of Florida (two BCS national championships), Utah and Bowling Green; player at Cincinnati.
Login or create an account to post a review. You are logged in as. Please submit your review for Urban Dictionary-Slang Definitions and Name Meanings. The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. Click here to review our site terms of use.
Izjian. This name makes you a one of a kind. In others words, special,rare,unique. You start off extremely shy but when you get to know some one you're as crazy as them. You have your sense of style and you tend to explore. You are trustworthy and reliable like no other. 
Latin Meaning: The name Urban is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Urban is: Townsman; citizen; of the city. American Meaning: The name Urban is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Urban is: Townsman; citizen; of the city.
Name. A name is a label used to identify a person, place, or thing. It can be given to you by someone else or one you've chosen for yourself. In the case of people, your name is one of the most important things your have both in terms of reputation and how you feel about yourself.
Urban /ur-ban/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Urban is from the city. The modern word urbane is from the same root. Charted below is the baby name popularity of Urban for boys. Urban reached its peak position of #614 in the U.S. in the 1900s, but is not listed at the moment.
Look up the meaning of your name on Urban Dictionary. New York, Feb 5 (THAINDIAN NEWS) The latest craze sweeping the Facebook users is urbandictionary.com It defines the slang usages of words, and names that actually mean quite something else.
Full Definition of URBAN. : of, relating to, characteristic of, or constituting a city. See urban defined for English-language learners. See urban defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
From the Latin name Urbanus which meant city dweller. This name is mentioned briefly in one of Paul 's epistles in the New Testament. It was subsequently borne by eight popes.
However Urban Dictionary is not all about weird meanings, as some of the meanings are true and real too. 1  Urban Dictionary Names' Definitons Catching On In Facebook-Feb 05, 2010. 2  Palin likens herself to Shakespeare with newly coined word 'refudiate' - Jul 19, 2010. 3  Furor over Facebook's dislike button-Oct 03, 2011. New York, Feb 5 (THAINDIAN NEWS) The latest craze sweeping the Facebook users is urbandictionary.com It defines the slang usages of words, and names that actually mean quite something else.