The First Continental Congress was a meeting of delegates from twelve of the thirteen colonies that met on September 5 to October 26, 1774 at Carpenters' Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, early in the American Revolution. Rather than precipitate rebellion by calling for independence, the First Continental Congress, in its Declaration and Resolves, passed and signed the Continental Association, which called for a boycott of British goods to take effect in December 1774.
The First Continental Congress met in Carpenter's Hall in Philadelphia, from September 5, 1774 until October 26, 1774. 
The First Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia 's Carpenters Hall on September 5, 1774. Twelve of the 13 colonies sent delegates. Georgia decided against roiling the waters; they were facing attacks from the restive Creek on their borders and desperately needed the support of regular British soldiers. 
On September 5, 1774, delegates from each of the 13 colonies except for Georgia (which was fighting a Native-American uprising and was dependent on the British for military supplies) met in Philadelphia as the First Continental Congress to organize colonial resistance to Parliament’s Coercive Acts. The First Continental Congress, which was comprised of delegates from the colonies, met in 1774 in reaction to the Coercive Acts, a series of measures imposed by the British government on the colonies in response to their resistance to new taxes.
In addition to the colonies which had sent delegates to the First Continental Congress, the Congress resolved on October 21, 1774 to send letters of invitation to Quebec, Saint John's Island (now Prince Edward Island), Nova Scotia, Georgia, East Florida, and West Florida. Rather than precipitate rebellion by calling for independence, the First Continental Congress, in its Declaration and Resolves, passed and signed the Continental Association, which called for a boycott of British goods to take effect in December 1774.
The First Continental Congress was a group of 56 delegates from 12 colonies (all except Georgia) who met in Philadelphia in September of 1774. They came together to act together in response to the Intolerable Acts. They met in secret because they didn't want Great Britain to know that they were united. 
First Continental Congress: a meeting of colonial delegates in Philadelphia to decide how to respond to the closing of Boston Harbor, increased taxes, and abuses of authority by the British government; delegates petitioned King George II, listing the freedoms they believed colonists should enjoy. In 1774, the First Continental Congress meeting took place. 12 out  of 13 colonies sent delegates. The Congress demanded the repeal of  the Intolerable Acts and the right to … govern and tax themselves.
Theme of the First Continental Congress (Source: Library of Congress) In 1774, the colonies held the First Continental Congress. Representatives from each colony, except Georgia, met in Philadelphia. First Continental Congress meeting (Source: Library of Congress) The congress had three objectives: to compose a statement of colonial rights, to identify British parliaments violation of those rights, and to provide a plan that would convince Britain to restore those rights.
Formation of a Congress. By September 1774, many leaders in the American colonies still hoped for a resolution to colonial grievances, which would avoid out right war with England. That same month and year, the First Continental Congress assembled in Philadelphia.