(Redirected from Maximum Acceptable Outage). Maximum tolerable period of disruption (MTPOD) is the maximum amount of time that an enterprise's key products or services can be unavailable or undeliverable after an event that causes disruption to operations, before its stakeholders perceive unacceptable consequences.
Maximum Tolerable Period of Disruption (Definition). The maximum time an activity or resource can be unavailable before irreperable harm is caused to the organization. As part of a Business Impact Analysis, a maximum tolerable period of disruption should be estimated for each key activity within
2. Maximum Tolerable Period of Disruption or MTPD/MTPoD is the time it would take for adverse impacts, which might arise as a result of not providing a product/service or performing an activity, to become unacceptable.
Even before the introduction of the term maximum tolerable period of disruption (MTPOD) by the British standard for Business Continuity Management, BS 25999, Parts 1 and 2, there were ongoing debates about recovery point objectives (RPOs) and recovery time objectives (RTOs) .
1. Maximum Tolerable Period of Disruption or MTPD/MTPoD is the maximum allowable time that the organization’s key products or services is made unavailable or cannot be delivered before its impact is deemed as unacceptable. Related Terms: Recovery Objectives.
A key aspect of determining the impact of a disruption is identifying what BS 25999 calls the maximum tolerable period of disruption (MTPOD). BS 25999 defines MTPOD as the duration after which an organization's viability will be irrevocably threatened if product and service delivery cannot be resumed..
Maximum Tolerable Period of Disruption (MTPOD) became an issue with the introduction of British Standard 25999-2. When applied correctly, MTPOD improves management's understanding of the disaster recovery business continuity program and clarifies the enterprise's recovery priorities.
Maximum tolerable period of disruption (MTPOD) is the time following a disaster after which an organization’s viability will be irreversibly impacted if production isn't resumed.
Mel Gosling argues that the current definition of the term maximum tolerable period of disruption (MTPD) not only causes confusion, but is actually wrong, and needs to be replaced by a definition that will ensure that the concept is both readily understood and used as originally intended.