Eggplant (Solanum melongena) is a member of the nightshade family, bearing edible fruit that range in color and size according to cultivar. The fruit of the most popular European and American varieties are fairly large, reaching a size of 5 to 10 inches (12 to 25 cm) long and 2 to 4 inches (6 to 9 cm) wide. What I do is I cut up the eggplant and then I put it in a bowl of cold water with salt in it. I let it sit like that for fifteen to twenty minutes before I cook.
The seeds and skin of the eggplant are edible and usually do not need to be removed prior to cooking and eating. An exception to this is in the case of a fruit that is overmature or that has been sitting around for a few days in the refrigerator. What I do is I cut up the eggplant and then I put it in a bowl of cold water with salt in it. I let it sit like that for fifteen to twenty minutes before I cook.
I love the hefty feel of a large fresh eggplant, but the larger they are the less flavorful they will be and the tougher the skin. I generally look for fruit that is no more than about 1 lb (about 8 inches long and 4 inches in diameter). As such, eggplant is technically a fruit. As with tomatoes and other of nightshade veggies there are a number of varieties of eggplant. You'll find a wide assortment in your market these days.
Eggplant is a cold-sensitive vegetable that requires a long warm season for best yields. The culture of eggplant is similar to that of bell pepper, with transplants being set in the garden after all danger of frost is past. 1/2 cup fresh basil leaves, cut into shreds. Wash eggplant, remove caps and cut into quarters or cut in half. Sprinkle with salt and let drain for 30 minutes. Rinse and pat dry with paper towels.
Eggplant is a member of the nightshade family as are tomatoes, peppers, potatoes and sweet potatoes. As such, eggplant is technically a fruit. As with tomatoes and other of nightshade veggies there are a number of varieties of eggplant. You'll find a wide assortment in your market these days.
Eggplant, or aubergine as it is called in France, is a vegetable long prized for its beauty as well as its unique taste and texture. Eggplants belong to the plant family of Solanaceae, also commonly known as nightshades, and are kin to the tomato, bell pepper and potato. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Eggplant is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
The eggplant is a delicate, tropical perennial often cultivated as a tender or half-hardy annual in temperate climates. It grows 40 to 150 cm (16 to 59 in) tall, with large, coarsely lobed leaves that are 10 to 20 cm (3.9 to 7.9 in) long and 5 to 10 cm (2.0 to 3.9 in) broad. Eggplant is used in the cuisine of many countries. Eggplant is widely used in its native Indian cuisine, for example in sambhar, dalma (a dal preparation with vegetables, native to Odisha), chutney, curry, and achaar.
Eggplant (Solanum melongena) or aubergine is a species of nightshade grown for its edible fruit. It is known in South Asia, Southeast Asia and South Africa as brinjal. Eggplant is the common name in North American and Australian English but British English uses aubergine. Other common names are melongene, garden egg, or guinea squash. The fruit is widely used in cooking. As a member of the genus Solanum, it is related to both the tomato and the potato. Eggplant is used in the cuisine of many countries. Eggplant is widely used in its native Indian cuisine, for example in sambhar, dalma (a dal preparation with vegetables, native to Odisha), chutney, curry, and achaar.