Plants Vegetation types within the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy zone range from moist coastal canyon bottoms in the Santa Monica Mountains, to desert transitional areas at the headwaters of the Santa Clara River. 
1 This list of native plants is organized by elevational distribution ranges and their plant communities. 2  Some plants with a broader altitudinal range are found listed in their predominant habitat elevation. 3  All the plant species listed are native to the Sierra's foothills, valleys, and mountains. The Sierra Nevada mountain range, also known locally as the Sierras or Sierra Nevada , run 400 miles (640 km) north-to-south along eastern California, and occasionally in western Nevada.
For the place, see Ponderosa Pines, Montana. Pinus ponderosa, commonly known as the ponderosa pine, bull pine, blackjack pine, or western yellow pine, is a very large pine tree species of variable habitat native to the western United States and Canada. It is the most widely distributed pine species in North America. P. ponderosa is a dominant tree in the Kuchler plant association, the ponderosa shrub forest. Like most western pines, the ponderosa generally is associated with mountainous topography.
Size [edit]. The National Register of Big Trees lists a ponderosa pine that is 235 ft (72 m) tall and 324 in (820 cm) in circumference. In January 2011, a Pacific ponderosa pine in the Rogue River–Siskiyou National Forest in Oregon was measured with a laser to be 268.35 ft (81.79 m) high. P. ponderosa is a dominant tree in the Kuchler plant association, the ponderosa shrub forest. Like most western pines, the ponderosa generally is associated with mountainous topography.
WESTERN HEMLOCK-DOUGLAS FIR FOREST The most common plant community in the Pacific Northwest is dominated by large conifers, with a wide range of trees, shrubs and groundcovers as understory plants. A number of species are common throughout the moist to dry range with a few species found at one end of the gradient or the other. For instance, in places where the soil is well drained and the slope is south-facing, or in open canopy sunny conditions, you will find plants more tolerant of dry conditions.
EvergreenZones: 8-24Height: 12-30 feet Width: 15-30 feet There are hundreds of beautiful, functional trees that do not pose an ecological threat to California’s wildlands. This brochure recommends only a selection of the trees that can be planted in place of the invasive trees on the opposite panels. Suggested alternatives for invasive Trees in California Suggested alternatives for invasive Trees in California California is home to the world’s tallest, largest, and oldest trees—coast redwoods, giant sequoias, and bristlecone pines. We also enjoy many beautiful landscaping trees imported from around the world.
1 Some plants with a broader altitudinal range are found listed in their predominant habitat elevation. 2  All the plant species listed are native to the Sierra's foothills, valleys, and mountains. The Sierra Nevada mountain range, also known locally as the Sierras or Sierra Nevada , run 400 miles (640 km) north-to-south along eastern California, and occasionally in western Nevada.
1 All the plant species listed are native to the Sierra's foothills, valleys, and mountains. 2  In addition some are also endemic to here and elsewhere within California - (ca-endemic) ; and some are further endemic to and only found in the Sierra Nevada - (sn-endemic) . The Sierra Nevada mountain range, also known locally as the Sierras or Sierra Nevada , run 400 miles (640 km) north-to-south along eastern California, and occasionally in western Nevada.
A List of Plants in the Sierra Nevada is below. The Sierra Nevada mountain range, also known locally as the Sierras or Sierra Nevada , run 400 miles (640 km) north-to-south along eastern California, and occasionally in western Nevada.