When done, drain and rinse in cold water. Fry onion and peppers in small amount of oil. When onion and peppers are limp, add garlic and parsley. Add fries and fry for a few minutes. Add Ortega salsa, salt, pepper, and white wine and simmer, covered for about 15 to 20 minutes. Return to Sheep's Creek Farm Lamb Recipes page.
Rocky Mountain oysters are sometimes confused with lamb fries or animelles (lamb testicles), which are served in a manner similar to Rocky Mountain oysters. A few other deceptive terms, such as cowboy caviar, Montana tendergroins, dusted nuts, bull fries or swinging beef may be used. Rocky Mountain oysters is a term for a dish made of bull, pig or sheep testicles. The organs are often deep-fried after being peeled, coated in flour, pepper and salt, and sometimes pounded flat. This delicacy is most often served as an appetizer with a cocktail sauce dip
Greek Style Pulled Lamb Fries. After making several of the Greek style pulled lamb pitas I was looking for a bit of a change and I had just the idea. I was thinking about Greek styled pulled lamb fries something along the veins of chili fries or carne asada fries. Of course in addition to the pulled lamb topping there would be some freshly made mint tzatziki along with diced tomatoes, red onions, feta and some chopped kalamata olives. 
1 Season with lemon juice, lemon pepper, and salt. 2  Cook and stir until the lamb fries are firm and white in the center, and the liquid from the vegetables has cooked down, 15 to 20 minutes. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Slice each lamb fry in half lengthwise, and remove from the membrane; set aside. 2  Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Stir in the lamb fries, and cook for about a minute until they begin to firm and change color.
1 Stir in the lamb fries, and cook for about a minute until they begin to firm and change color. 2  Stir in the Armenian peppers, onion, spinach, and butter. 3  Season with lemon juice, lemon pepper, and salt. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Slice each lamb fry in half lengthwise, and remove from the membrane; set aside. 2  Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3 
Lamb fries can be found on the menus of a number of restaurants in Kentucky, most specifically in the Bluegrass region where they are a traditional food. 
Lamb Weston Colossal Crisp long fancy 3/8 regular cut fries were designed to meet all of today's foodservice needs. Whether prepared in an oven or fryer, they cook up crisp on the outside and fluffy on the inside. 
Lamb fries are lamb testicles used as food. Historically they were parboiled, cut in half, and seasoned. Lamb testicles are served in a variety of cuisines, including Italian, American Basque, barbecue, Chinese, Caucasian, and Turkish. In the United States they are often served breaded and fried. Lamb fries, often served in a cream gravy, are a traditional dish in the Bluegrass region of Kentucky.