How long does it take for mdma to kick in? When you're swallowing it as a pill, it can take anywhere from 20  minutes to 60 minutes. Depends on the person, but it can take up to a few weeks. For long-term users the effects of suboxone can last for months or even years after its use.
I have been given Endone 5mg for torn muscles on my chest wall. The script only says one every six hours but does not have anything about how many can be taken in a 24 hour period. Follow. 
I take 50mg 15 minutes before love making, and now I can spend hours with foreplay and not worry if I'm gonna go soft or lose interest. It takes effect in 15 minutes on the average and out love-making session goes for over an hour every time. - Age 65, Florida. I could feel my penis get erect within 15 minutes, getting harder than usual and lasting longer too-YT, Age 45, Nigeria. The effects last 3 or 4 hours, and it takes 30 to 45 minutes to kick in. - Art, Age 62, Texas. It worked faster than a 1/2 hour and I had the first complete sexual experience in over 6 YEARS! William, Age 42, Texas. It begins to work in about 15 minutes to a half an hour and lasts for 3 hours or so. I find that 25 mg two hours prior to sex is best for me, and allows sensitivity, to remain at its peak. - Phil, Age 60, California. The first time I took it, my wife and I had already made love that afternoon. 
If you have been using this medicine for a long period of time and it is no longer needed to control pain DO NOT suddenly stop taking ENDONE. Your doctor may want you to gradually reduce the amount of ENDONE you are taking before stopping completely in order to lessen the risk of withdrawal symptoms. Do not take any other medicines while you are taking ENDONE unless you have discussed this with your doctor. This includes medicines you can buy without a prescription from a pharmacy, supermarket or health food shop. Do not take ENDONE to treat any complaint other than that directed by
How long will it take for pain medication to work? It usually takes 20 minutes to a half hour for medicine to work, but some medicine takes more time then others. Tramadol, for example, can take 50-55 minutes to really get rol … ling in the blood stream, but will usually last six hours. + 30 others found this useful. Satch Hrdlicka. The most intense cramping and bleeding generally lasts for 3-5 hours, but it can last for less or more time. Some women bleed heavily for up to 48 hours and may pass clots days or even weeks after taking the misoprostol.
Endone is from the same family of drugs as heroin, and like heroin it can be addictive. People who take a lot of Endone for long periods can find their body adapts to having regular Endone. If the regular dose is not taken, they go into withdrawal. This makes cutting down or stopping Endone difficult. 
I have notice it takes longer for the oxy to start working then the percocet. I am on the 20mg er oxycodone (generic for oxycontin 20 mg cr) on the Teva brand. I have seen the post about the generics being somewhat different. I take the same dosage every 8 hours due to the fact that it does not last 12hrs for me. I have found that it takes an hour to and hour and half for it to relieve my pain. Thats if it is even going to work at all. I personally have to stay away from the teva brand.
When I take it, it usually takes a good hour to kick in and relieve my pain. My doctor has told me in the past that oxy initially releases 8 mg's into your body, so that may be why it doesn't last 12 hours. It seems silly that they market it that way. I also take percocet for b/t pain. I take the same dosage every 8 hours due to the fact that it does not last 12hrs for me. I have found that it takes an hour to and hour and half for it to relieve my pain. Thats if it is even going to work at all. I personally have to stay away from the teva brand.
It is important to always take the dose prescribed by your doctor. Never increase or decrease the dose unless advised to do so by your doctor. Endone takes 10-15 minutes to start working and relieves pain for 3-6 hours. Always try to take Endone at the correct time. If you miss a dose, you can take it 2-3 hours after the scheduled time, but do not take the missed dose within 2-3 hours of the time at which the next Endone dose is due. If you do not realise you have missed a dose until within 2-3 hours of your next dose, skip the missed dose