You will have to pay out of pocket and request reimbursement, as any credit cards that are tied to that account will only be able to be used for current year pledges. If by the middle of March you have not used all the funds from the previous year, you will forfeit those funds to your employer. Lower Income Taxes Using FSA. Knowing tax brackets and where you fall within those also can be helpful. In many cases, people who fall on the borderline for income brackets can save money by utilizing the FSA to get them into a lower tax bracket, thus potentially saving a significant amount of money.
Flex Account Ends When Employment Ends. When employment is terminated, regardless of the circumstances, you can no longer participate in the company's flexible-spending program, and money in the account cannot transfer to another employer. Spending More Than You Contribute. With most flexible spending accounts, funds are available on the first day of the plan year. If you spend the entire balance and leave the company before contributing the total amount agreed, you aren't required to pay back the funds.
Pledging Intelligently. Deciding to utilize an FSA is a decision that needs to be taken seriously. The decision to utilize an FSA can be a tool that can be used to lower your income tax bill and help ensure that you have the funds available for routine and unexpected health care events. Lower Income Taxes Using FSA. Knowing tax brackets and where you fall within those also can be helpful. In many cases, people who fall on the borderline for income brackets can save money by utilizing the FSA to get them into a lower tax bracket, thus potentially saving a significant amount of money.
I had an employer ask me to pay back FSA money previously (read $1500 for a well planned LASIK). I explained the use-it-or-lose-it rule and politely declined. Worked out fine. If you do decide to repay it just to be nice, make sure to have them take it out of your paycheck pretax. 
Flexible spending accounts allow employees to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified medical, dental and dependent care expenses. The contributions are not subject to payroll taxes, which is a money-saving advantage. When you leave an employer, you may wonder what happens to the money in your account. Spending More Than You Contribute. With most flexible spending accounts, funds are available on the first day of the plan year. If you spend the entire balance and leave the company before contributing the total amount agreed, you aren't required to pay back the funds.
Flexible spending accounts are pretax accounts that can be used for qualified medical purchases. Many employers offer these as a benefit to their employees to assist in the financial management of their family health care throughout the year. Lower Income Taxes Using FSA. Knowing tax brackets and where you fall within those also can be helpful. In many cases, people who fall on the borderline for income brackets can save money by utilizing the FSA to get them into a lower tax bracket, thus potentially saving a significant amount of money.
If you have signed up to allocate $3,000 for the year, that full $3,000 is available to you on the first day of the plan year, even though you haven't contributed it yet. If you leave employment with a negative balance in your account, you are not required to pay the balance back. COBRA Benefits. When you leave a job, most employers with more than 20 employees must offer COBRA coverage. This allows you to purchase health care coverage at the employer's full cost for up to 18 months. COBRA also applies to FSA benefits. If you leave your job, you can continue your contributions plus a 2 percent administrative charge to keep the plan active
Leaving a Company. Leaving your company mid-year can put you in two situations regarding your FSA account: spending more of your pledge than you have actually contributed (leaving a negative balance), or spending less than you have contributed (leaving a positive balance). Lower Income Taxes Using FSA. Knowing tax brackets and where you fall within those also can be helpful. In many cases, people who fall on the borderline for income brackets can save money by utilizing the FSA to get them into a lower tax bracket, thus potentially saving a significant amount of money.