The combustion of acetylene produces a large amount of heat, and, in a properly designed torch, the oxyacetylene flame attains the highest flame temperature (about 6,000° F, or 3,300° C) of any known mixture of combustible gases. The hydrogen atoms in acetylene can be replaced by metallic elements to form acetylides--e.g., acetylides of silver, copper, or sodium.
GENERALITIES: Acetylene (C 2 H 2) is not an air gas, but a synthesis gas generally produced from the reaction of calcium carbide with water. It was burnt in acetylene lamps to light homes and mining tunnels in the 19 th century. Non recommended, significant loss of mass by extraction or chemical reaction, contamination of the material by the gas and the impurities contained in the gas can be incompatible with material. Top of the page. Selection of the units. You can choose the units in which the values are displayed.
Acetylides of heavy metals are easily formed by reaction of acetylene with the metal ions. Several, e.g., silver acetylide (Ag 2 C 2) and copper acetylide (Cu 2 C 2), are powerful and very dangerous explosives. Berthelot later obtained acetylene directly by passing hydrogen between the poles of a carbon arc. Commercially available acetylene gas could smell foul due to the common impurities hydrogen sulphide and phosphine. However, acetylene gas with high purity would generate a light and sweet smell.
When mixed with pure oxygen in a cutting torch assembly, an acetylene flame can reach a temperature of 5700 F. ACETYLENE IS EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE AND EXPLOSIVE. Many users may not be aware of the unique characteristics of acetylene that create special hazards compared to other fuel gases. 
Thanks to the Air Liquide Gas Encyclopedia, you will be able to: 1  Find all of the physical properties of gases (the main physical characteristics of molecules in their solid, liquid and gaseous or supercritical states), Non recommended, significant loss of mass by extraction or chemical reaction, contamination of the material by the gas and the impurities contained in the gas can be incompatible with material. Top of the page. Selection of the units. You can choose the units in which the values are displayed.
The flame characteristics of acetylene make it the premier fuel gas for welding, heating, and cutting applications. It produces the hottest flame temperature (5720 F.) and releases a higher percentage of its heat in the inner cone of its flame, more than any other fuel gas. 
It was rediscovered in 1860 by French chemist Marcellin Berthelot, who coined the name acetylene. Berthelot was able to prepare this gas by passing vapours of organic compounds (methanol, ethanol, etc.) through a red-hot tube and collecting the effluent. Berthelot later obtained acetylene directly by passing hydrogen between the poles of a carbon arc. Commercially available acetylene gas could smell foul due to the common impurities hydrogen sulphide and phosphine. However, acetylene gas with high purity would generate a light and sweet smell.
For soldering, air/acetylene systems are preferred. The flame characteristics allow lower heat input and reduce the risk of overheating solder and flux. Flame characteristics and brazing The fact that an oxygen/acetylene flame has a higher temperature has already been mentioned. An air/acetylene system only requires the use of a single acetylene tank and gets oxygen from the atmosphere. Since air contains only about 21% oxygen, it was difficult for older air/acetylene torches to reach the higher flame temperatures necessary for brazing.
Oxy-fuel welding (commonly called oxyacetylene welding, oxy welding, or gas welding in the U.S.) and oxy-fuel cutting are processes that use fuel gases and oxygen to weld and cut metals, respectively. In oxy-fuel welding, a welding torch is used to weld metals. Welding metal results when two pieces are heated to a temperature that produces a shared pool of molten metal. The molten pool is generally supplied with additional metal called filler. Filler material depends upon the metals to be welded.
Oxy-fuel processes may use a variety of fuel gases, the most common being acetylene. Other gases that may be used are propylene, liquified petroleum gas (LPG), propane, natural gas, hydrogen, and MAPP gas. Many brands use different kinds of gases in their mixes. In oxy-fuel welding, a welding torch is used to weld metals. Welding metal results when two pieces are heated to a temperature that produces a shared pool of molten metal. The molten pool is generally supplied with additional metal called filler. Filler material depends upon the metals to be welded.