1 States vs Federal rights-The rights effected the economy in the north and south. 2  Cotton Gin-This relates because the south wanted slaves and the north did not. 3  Fugitive Slave Act-This relates be the south believed in slaver and the north did not. The south was mainly known for it's agriculture and farming and the north was known for It's factories and industries. The people of the south were also denied jobs by the people in the north because the southern people were thought of as stupid (the same goes for today).
Abstract. For years, textbook authors have contended that economic difference between North and South was the primary cause of the Civil War. The northern economy relied on manufacturing and the agricultural southern economy depended on the production of cotton. 
1 Cotton Gin-This relates because the south wanted slaves and the north did not. 2  Fugitive Slave Act-This relates be the south believed in slaver and the north did not. 3  The Panic of 1837 - This relates because it devastated the the and did nothing to the south. The south was mainly known for it's agriculture and farming and the north was known for It's factories and industries. The people of the south were also denied jobs by the people in the north because the southern people were thought of as stupid (the same goes for today).
Slavery and Free Blacks. The major difference between the North and the South -- and the one most responsible for the Civil War -- was the institution of slavery. In the North, slavery was almost universally prohibited by the 1800s, while the institution was a cornerstone of Southern society. 
The period between 1861 and 1865 is referred to as the Civil War in the American history. It was fought between the Southern states--the Confederation--and the Union of the Northern states. The main causes of this brutal and bloody civil war were issues of federal control over the states, trade and slavery.
One of the primary differences between the Northern and Southern economy before the American Civil War was the presence of slavery. Uncle Tom's Cabin focuses on this element, this difference between North and South. Part of the reason why slavery is shown to be so cruel is that it degrades human beings as objects. Uncle Tom;s Cabin was written in the 1850's, which was the time period where slavery was a big issue. The book focuses a lot on the differences between the North and the South. The Southern economy was based on the slave trade.
The North was much more industrialized, having many industries, such as textiles, revolve around factories. In contrast, the South was still very agricultural, having many plantations as well as small farms. The North also had many more miles of railroad track. The North and South fought the Civil War because the South lived on slavery and could not live without it, the north on the other hand did not like slavery. They also fought t … he war because the South seceded after Lincoln became president.
Title: The Economic Differences Between the North and the South Prior to the Civil War Subject: ESOL Focus Social Studies A-LevelGrade Level(s): Middle ESOL Author(s): Barbara F. Brown School: Luther Jackson Middle SchoolLesson Time: 1 hr 30 mins. 
Although the Civil War itself was caused by a number of different factors, the divergent paths taken in the economic development of North and South contributed to the animosity between the regions, the development of the Confederacy and, ultimately, the victory of the Union. by Marc Schulman. Introduction. In the years before the Civil War, the economic interests of Americans in the North and Northwest grew increasingly further from those of Americans in the South and Southwest.