The Australian dollar (sign : $ ; code: AUD) is the currency of the Commonwealth of Australia, including Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, and Norfolk Island, as well as the independent Pacific Island states of Kiribati, Nauru and Tuvalu. Australia's currency comprises coins of 5, 10, 20 and 50 cent and one and two dollar denominations; and notes of 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 dollar denominations. Many forms of currency were used in the Australian colonies after the arrival of the first European settlers in 1788.
Within Australia it is almost always abbreviated with the dollar sign ($), with A$ sometimes used to distinguish it from other dollar-denominated currencies. It is subdivided into 100 cents. As of 2011, the Australian is the 5th most traded currency in the world, accounting for 7.6% of the world's daily share. It trades in the world foreign exchange markets behind the US dollar, the euro, the yen and the pound sterling. Australia's currency comprises coins of 5, 10, 20 and 50 cent and one and two dollar denominations; and notes of 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 dollar denominations. Many forms of currency were used in the Australian colonies after the arrival of the first European settlers in 1788.
Dollar) '. The abbreviation for the Australian dollar and U.S. dollar (AUD/USD) currency pair or cross. The currency pair tells the reader how many U.S. dollars (the quote currency) are needed to purchase one Australian dollar (the base currency). Trading the AUD/USD currency pair is also known as trading the Aussie
DEFINITION of 'AUD (Australian Dollar)'. The currency abbreviation for the Australian dollar (AUD), the currency for the Commonwealth of Australia. The Australian dollar is made up of 100 cents and is often presented with the symbol $, A$, or AU$. The Australian dollar is also the currency for Pacific Island states of Nauru, Tuvalu and Kiribati. 
The Australian dollar (sign : $ ; code: AUD) is the currency of the Commonwealth of Australia (including its territories), Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. It is subdivided into 100 cents (symbol: ¢). 
Australian Dollar History. Importance of the Australian Dollar. The central bank in Australia is called the Reserve Bank of Australia. As the 5th most traded currency in the world, the Australian dollar is also referred to as buck, dough, or the Aussie. The Australian Dollar is known as a commodity currency due to its substantial raw material exports. As a result, the AUD is affected by China and other Asian import markets
United States Dollar (USD). The Australian Dollar is the currency in Australia (AU, AUS), Canton and Enderbury Islands, Christmas Island (CX, CXR), Cocos Islands (Keeling Islands, CC, CCK), Heard and McDonald Islands (HM, HMD), Kiribati (KI, KIR), Nauru (NR, NRU), Norfolk Island (NF, NFK), and Tuvalu (TV, TUV). The symbol for USD can be written $. The Australian Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The United States Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Australian Dollar was last updated on October 14, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund.
Other countries and currencies. The Australian Dollar is the currency in Australia (AU, AUS), Canton and Enderbury Islands, Christmas Island (CX, CXR), Cocos Islands (Keeling Islands, CC, CCK), Heard and McDonald Islands (HM, HMD), Kiribati (KI, KIR), Nauru (NR, NRU), Norfolk Island (NF, NFK), and Tuvalu (TV, TUV). The symbol for USD can be written $. The Australian Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The United States Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Australian Dollar was last updated on October 14, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund.
The Australian Dollar is the currency of Australia. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Australia Dollar exchange rate is the AUD to GBP rate. The currency code for Dollars is AUD, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Australian Dollar rates and a currency converter. The central bank in Australia is called the Reserve Bank of Australia. As the 5th most traded currency in the world, the Australian dollar is also referred to as buck, dough, or the Aussie.