Having a high level of triglycerides, a type of fat (lipid) in your blood, can increase your risk of heart disease. 
Test Results. If your blood triglyceride levels are normal, your test results will be less than 150 milligrams per deciliter. The range for borderline high triglycerides is 150 to 199 milligrams per deciliter. The range for high is 200 to 499 milligrams per deciliter. Any level above 499 is considered very high. 
1 Normal triglyceride levels in the blood are less than 150mg per deciliter (mg/dL). 2  Borderline levels are between 150-200 mg/dL. 3  High levels of triglycerides (greater than 200 mg/dl) are associated with a increased risk of atherosclerosis and therefore coronary artery disease and stroke. 1 Borderline levels are between 150-200 mg/dL. 2  High levels of triglycerides (greater than 200 mg/dl) are associated with a increased risk of atherosclerosis and therefore coronary artery disease and stroke. 3  Extremely high triglyceride level s (greater than 500mg/dl) may cause pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas).
The National Cholesterol Education Program sets guidelines for triglyceride levels: Normal triglycerides means there are less than 150 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). Borderline high triglycerides = 150 to 199 mg/dL. High triglycerides = 200 to 499 mg/dL. Very high triglycerides = 500 mg/dL or higher. High triglyceride levels may lead to heart disease, especially in people with low levels of good cholesterol and high levels of bad cholesterol, and in people with type 2 diabetes. Experts disagree, though, on just how bad of an effect high triglyceride levels by themselves have on the heart. 
In some ways, the molecules called triglycerides are the easiest to understand. Simply put, triglycerides are fat in the blood, and a high triglyceride level can increase the risk of heart disease. Just what your triglyceride levels mean and how much lowering triglycerides reduces heart disease risk is less clear. Triglycerides may be an enabler of other heart disease risk factors. That is, high triglyceride levels could multiply the bad effects of high cholesterol, high blood pressure, and smoking.
Normal Triglyceride Levels in Women. A high fat diet can contribute to high triglycerides. Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood and women with unhealthy lifestyles are at risk for high triglycerides and heart disease. 
1 The triglyceride test measures the level of triglycerides in the blood. 2  Fasting for 9 to 12 hours before the triglyceride test is required. 3  Elevated triglyceride levels may be a risk factor for atherosclerosis. 4  Highly elevated triglyceride levels may also cause fatty liver disease and pancreatitis. 1 Triglycerides are the main ingredient in vegetable oils and animal fats. 2  The triglyceride test measures the level of triglycerides in the blood. 3  Fasting for 9 to 12 hours before the triglyceride test is required. 4
Triglycerides are one of the types of fat in the body and your level can be measured with a blood test. The test is more accurate if it is done after fasting from food and drinks for 9 to 12 hours. The normal range for triglyceride level for adults is less than 150 mg/dL. A triglyceride level less than 150 mg/dL is considered ideal for adults, according to the National Cholesterol Education Program. A triglyceride level of 150 to 200 mg/dL is borderline high
Triglyceride Ranges. A triglyceride level less than 150 mg/dL is considered ideal for adults, according to the National Cholesterol Education Program. A triglyceride level of 150 to 200 mg/dL is borderline high. A triglyceride result of 200 to 499 mg/dL is high, and levels of 500 mg/dL or more are very high. There can be some variability in normal triglyceride levels, depending on your age and other factors. The normal range for triglyceride level for adults is less than 150 mg/dL
Normal triglyceride levels vary by age and sex. A high triglyceride level combined with low HDL cholesterol or high LDL cholesterol is associated with atherosclerosis, the buildup of fatty deposits in artery walls that increases the risk for heart attack and stroke. 