Enjoy our most comprehensive lifestyle experience with access to all Bay Club resorts from San Francisco to San Diego. Executive Club Membership. Choose from North Bay, South Bay, or Silicon Valley membership and enjoy access to Bay Club resorts in your area.
Silicon Beach South Campus. A campus is made up of one or more Bay Clubs in the same region. Our basic campus membership allows you to enjoy and indulge in all of the various fitness facilities and amenities within the campus. Select a campus to find out more about each club and the available amenities in the area.
The Mission of the Club is to foster the game of tennis for all levels and create an intimate, social atmosphere for all members and their families. The Club provides tennis, swim, fitness, and social facilities, as well as a wide variety of programs for all ages. Our membership includes active professionals and business people, young families, individuals, and retired people involved in a variety of civic activities and organizations.
Located in the heart of Silicon Valley, between highways 101 and 237, Santa Clara Golf and Tennis Club is just minutes away from the new San Francisco 49ers’ stadium and California’s Great America Theme Park.
Partner Program The Tennis Partner Program is an on-going service where we're connecting you with dedicated tennis partners outside of league play on the tennis courts throughout San Francisco. This is our non-competitive program for players who are looking to meet up with other people who love to hit.
Find your happiness in San Francisco. As part of the San Francisco Campus, the Bay Club SF Tennis is the city's leading tennis facility, with 12 indoor climate-controlled courts, 12 rooftop outdoor courts, tennis programs for all ages and abilities, and a state-of-the-art fitness space.
Tennis Lessons Connecting players with San Francisco tennis instructors to provide on court tennis lessons. Improve your game today. Tennis Ladder The objective is to get to the top of San Francisco tennis ladder.