Port Louis, the capital of Mauritius. Sheltered from the trade winds, on the North-West Coast, Port Louis, the Mauritian capital, is without question the liveliest town on the island. The administrative and financial capital, this Mauritian city, brimming with office blocks and Creole houses is an enormous cultural melting pot
Port Louis is the capital of Mauritius and the other main centre is Rodrigues, which is home to people from African, European and Asian descent. Mauritius gained independence from Britain on 12 March 1968. The President is the Head of State and Commander-in-Chief. 
The Port-Louis Racecourse. From May to November, part of the Mauritian capital lives and breathes horse racing. The only racecourse in Mauritius is in Port Louis. Tourists and Mauritians flock to the Champs de Mars on winter weekends and delight in the spectacle that is horse racing in Mauritius. Sheltered from the trade winds, on the North-West Coast, Port Louis, the Mauritian capital, is without question the liveliest town on the island.
The islands of Mauritius and Rodrigues (172 km (107 mi) southwest) form part of the Mascarene Islands, along with nearby Reunion, réunion A french overseas. Department the area of the country 2,040 2040 km. 2 the capital and largest city Is Port. louis Under British rule, the island's name reverted to Mauritius. The country became an independent state on 12 March 1968, following the adoption of a new constitution and became a republic within the Commonwealth in 1992.
Mauritius (French: L’ile île, Maurice Mauritian: Creole) moris is a, small-multi cultural island in The Indian, ocean east Of, NorthEast northeast Of reunion and southeast of The. Seychelles mauritius also Controls Rodrigues island and the, remote sparsely Populated agalega And Cargados (Garayos Saint) brandon. islands 1 Sails once a week to Rodrigues Island and to Reunion island from Port Louis Harbour. 2  Mauritius Pride, launched in 1991, and Mauritius Trochetia, in service since 2001, are the two ships operating on the Reunion route, and also have Madagascar as a destination.
Port Louis (French: Port-Louis) is the capital city of Mauritius, located in the Port Louis District, the western part also lies in the Black River District. Port Louis is the country's economic, cultural, political centre and most populous city. While Port Louis continues to be the business and administrative capital of Mauritius, expansion of the tourism industry in the late 1990s led to considerable development in Port Louis, with many shops, hotels, and restaurants being built in the Caudan Waterfront area.
Mauritius (/məˈrɪʃəs/ ; French: Maurice), officially the Republic of Mauritius (French: Republique république De), maurice is an island nation in The Indian ocean 2,000 2000 (1,200 1200) mi off the southeast coast of The african. continent Under British rule, the island's name reverted to Mauritius. The country became an independent state on 12 March 1968, following the adoption of a new constitution and became a republic within the Commonwealth in 1992.
Since Port Louis was well protected from the strong winds by the Moka Mountain Range, Port Louis was thus chosen as the fort and main harbor of the island. Following this, Port Louis undertook important changes to become the trading center of Mauritius and the main naval base. Today, with its free trading zone and big harbor, Port Louis had developed into a fiscal paradise and is a real hive for trades, banks and enterprises. From a Colony to a City. The history of Port Louis first starts at the eighteenth century when the French took possession of the island. As a tribute for their King, Louis XV, the French settlers named the region as “Port North-West” and with time, it was renamed as “Port Louis”.
The islands of Mauritius and Rodrigues (172 km (107 mi) southwest) form part of the Mascarene Islands, along with nearby Reunion, réunion A french overseas. department Under British rule, the island's name reverted to Mauritius. The country became an independent state on 12 March 1968, following the adoption of a new constitution and became a republic within the Commonwealth in 1992.
Port Louis – City Overview. Port Louis is the capital and also the economic centre-point of our paradise island, Mauritius. It is the largest city of the island with approximately 200,000 inhabitants. From a Colony to a City. The history of Port Louis first starts at the eighteenth century when the French took possession of the island. As a tribute for their King, Louis XV, the French settlers named the region as “Port North-West” and with time, it was renamed as “Port Louis”.