1 Gastritis is an inflammation or irritation of the lining of the stomach. 2  Gastritis has many causes, including as a result of an infection with the same bacteria that causes most stomach ulcers. 1 Symptoms of gastritis are. 2  indigestion (burning pain in upper abdomen or pit of the stomach), 3  nausea or vomiting, 4  pain in the upper abdomen. 5  Home remedies for gastritis include changing the diet and avoiding alcohol. 6  If the person is taking pain relievers that can cause gastritis, these should be changed or avoided.
Gastritis is a group of diseases that cause inflammation of the lining of the stomach. Acute gastritis (occurs suddenly) and chronic gastritis (develops slowly). The inflammation of the stomach lining is most frequently caused by a bacterium called H. pylori. 1 Symptoms of gastritis are. 2  indigestion (burning pain in upper abdomen or pit of the stomach), 3  nausea or vomiting, 4  pain in the upper abdomen. 5  Home remedies for gastritis include changing the diet and avoiding alcohol. 6  If the person is taking pain relievers that can cause gastritis, these should be changed or avoided.
Deaths from Gastritis. Deaths from Gastritis: 703 deaths in the USA 1980 s (Digestive diseases in the United States: Epidemiology and Impact NIH Publication No. 94-1447, NIDDK, 1994). 
Gastritis & H. pylori Infection. Gastritis is an inflammation of the lining of the stomach, and has many possible causes. The main acute causes are excessive alcohol consumption or prolonged use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (also known as NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen and naproxen. Chronic causes are infection with bacteria; primarily Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori), chronic bile reflux, stress and certain autoimmune disorders can cause gastritis as well. An upper endoscopy (EGD) can diagnose gastritis. Biopsies of the lining of the stomach can determine if the gastritis is caused by H. pylori
Gastritis is inflammation of the lining of the stomach. It may occur as a short episode or may be of a long duration. The most common symptom is upper abdominal pain. Other symptoms include nausea and vomiting, bloating, loss of appetite, and heart burn. Others may have no symptoms. The symptoms of gastritis may be a presentation of a myocardial infarction. Other conditions with similar symptoms include inflammation of the pancreas, gallbladder problems, and peptic ulcer disease. Prevention is by avoiding things that cause the disease.
Gastritis. Gastritis is an inflammation of the lining of the stomach. There are severalforms, including chronic gastritis (symptoms are usually indefinite or nonexistent) and acute erosive gastritis (symptoms may include vomiting, vomiting blood, black, tarry feces, anorexia nervosa, and nausea). After H. pylori, the second most common cause of gastritis is nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. These commonly used pain killers, including aspirin, fenoprofen, ibuprofen and naproxen, can lead to acute erosive gastritisand peptic ulcers.
1 An example of chronic gastritis is Helicobacter pylori or H. pylori, a type of bacteria that infects the stomach. 2  Foods that may cause gastritis can differ from person to person, but in general, foods that can cause gastritis include. 3  beverages that contain alcohol or caffeine, 1 Symptoms of gastritis are. 2  indigestion (burning pain in upper abdomen or pit of the stomach), 3  nausea or vomiting, 4  pain in the upper abdomen. 5  Home remedies for gastritis include changing the diet and avoiding alcohol. 6  If the person is taking pain relievers that can cause gastritis, these should be changed or avoided.