You have found a question that answers itself...Yes, solid iron chloride is a solid. You should turn that question back on the person who posed it and ask if they meant Ferrou … s chloride (Iron (II) chloride) or Ferric chloride (Iron (III) chloride). The answer will still be yes. ha 014. 1,319 Contributions. 
Chlorine is supplied as a gas, liquid and a solid. The gas is 100 percent elemental chlorine (Cl2), and is supplied in 150 lb. cylinders (10 inches in diameter and about 55 inches high) and in 2,000 lb. (ton) containers (30 inches in diameter and 82 inches high). And the solid is calcium hypochlorite [Ca(OCl)2], available in granular form or as tablets. If cost is an issue, chlorine gas is a clear choice because calcium hypochlorite is only 65 percent available chlorine, sodium hypochlorite is 12.5 percent.
Calcium is a soft gray alkaline earth metal and is the fifth-most-abundant element through mass in the Earth's crust. Calcium is also the fifth most abundant mixed ion in seawater by both mass and molarity, following chloride, sodium, sulfate and magnesium. 
Calcium (Ca) is a Pure Element of the 'Alkaline Earth Metal' group and, is a Solid under normal conditions of Temperature and Pressure. Solid, liquid and gas are states or phases of an element or substance. But most substances can exist in all three states depending on temperature and pressure.
Report Abuse. Calcium can exist in solid, liquid, or gas form, depending on the temperature. And anything which does not occur naturally is synthetic. The word has nothing to do with elemental properties, as far as I know. twitching_green_grasshopper · 7 years ago. Solid, liquid and gas are states or phases of an element or substance. But most substances can exist in all three states depending on temperature and pressure.
water   Water is a gas when it is steam. It condenses to liquid, becoming water. It becomes solid when it freezes, and then becomes liquid again as it melts. The entire pro … cess depends on temperature. The molecular structure of water does not change throughout all these changes. If u boil a solid,it will become liquid. If u continue to heat the Liquid,it will evaporate and become steam at a particular temperature. 8 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Calcium chloride, CaCl2, is a common salt. It behaves as a typical ionic halide, and is SOLID at room temperature. It has several common applications such as brine for refrigeration plants, ice and dust control on roads, and in concrete.
Calcium can exist in solid, liquid, or gas form, depending on the temperature. And anything which does not occur naturally is synthetic. The word has nothing to do with elemental properties, as far as I know. Solid, liquid and gas are states or phases of an element or substance. But most substances can exist in all three states depending on temperature and pressure. Actually there is also the plasma state as well.