Orihuela is a large municipality covering an area of 365 km2 and is the historical capital of the Vega Baja. The region can be split into three distinct zones; the surrounding countryside and the La Pedrera Reservoir, the coastal area known as the Orihuela Costa and the city itself. Orihuela Train Station. Orihuela Station is on the main line north to Elche Parque and Alicante and south to Orihuela and Murcia. The line is used by various regional operates, but you can find the timetable using the Renfe website. Click on the word welcome to change the site to English.
Uploaded on Sep 18, 2011. A brief look at the Orihuela-Costa with The Leader. To view Spanish property in this area, please visit http://www.theleader.info/spanish-pro... for more than 30,000 properties for rent or for sale in Spain. 
Information about Orihuela. On Spain-holiday.com you can search from a selection of holiday homes for rent in Orihuela. Popular holiday rentals in Orihuela are holiday villas, cottages, apartments and country houses to rent for short term holidays in Orihuela. On Spain-holiday.com you can search from a selection of holiday homes for rent in
This large estate is located outside Torrevieja, just 650 yards from the beaches of the Costa Blanca. It has an outdoor pool, 3 tennis courts, a basketball court and a fitness centre. Orihuela Costa Resort is under 15 minutes’ drive from Campoamor, Villamartin villamartín And ramblas De Orihuela Golf. courses 
The city of Orihuela Spain lies about 50 km south west of Alicante, just between Elche and Murcia. With about 50 000 habitants Orihuela is a major city in the area. You can best reach Orihuela using the national road N 340 from Alicante. Orihuela is the capital of what is called “La Vega Baja” (or the low fertile lowlands), one of the largest regions in the province of Alicante which pertains to the Valencian Community. It is about 57 kilometers south-west of Alicante heading inland although the region’s land reaches until the Costa Blanca.
1799 Orihuela was part of the province of Alicante. In 1810, Napoleon made Orihuela part of the Department of Segura with the capital at Murcia. In 1822, Orihuela passed to the province of Murcia. In 1304 Orihuela was considered to be on the border between the kingdoms of Castile and Aragon. Aragón in 1366 it passed to the kingdom Of. Valencia in, 1437 it was declared a city and in, 1707 Charles, V Holy Roman emperor Made orihuela capital of the province Of. orihuela
Orihuela Costa. Orihuela Costa is a coastal region situated on the Costa Blanca in the province of Alicante. It sits close to the border with Murcia, near La Manga and the beautiful Mar Menor. Despite its name it is actually around 20 kilometres away from the main resort of Orihuela. 
When you rent a holiday home in Orihuela via Spain-holiday.com, you deal directly with the owner, who is your best source of information for local restaurants etc near your accommodation. On Spain-holiday.com you can search from a selection of holiday homes for rent in Orihuela.
Orihuela (. [oriˈwela]. Oriola [oɾiˈɔla]) is a city and municipality located at the feet of the Sierra de Orihuela mountains in the province of Alicante, Spain. The city of Orihuela had a population of 33,943 inhabitants at the beginning of 2013. In 1304 Orihuela was considered to be on the border between the kingdoms of Castile and Aragon. Aragón in 1366 it passed to the kingdom Of. Valencia in, 1437 it was declared a city and in, 1707 Charles, V Holy Roman emperor Made orihuela capital of the province Of. orihuela