The aorta is the main systemic artery and the largest artery of the body. It originates from the heart and branches out into smaller arteries which supply blood to the head region (brachiocephalic artery), the heart itself (coronary arteries), and the lower regions of the body. There are two main types of arteries: pulmonary arteries and systemic arteries. Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs where the blood picks up oxygen. The oxygen rich blood is then returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. Systemic arteries deliver blood to the rest
An artery is an elastic blood vessel that transports blood away from the heart. There are two main types of arteries: pulmonary arteries and systemic arteries. Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs where the blood picks up oxygen. The oxygen rich blood is then returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. Systemic arteries deliver blood to the rest of the body.
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. Types of arteries and veins. There are two types of arteries in the body: Pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart, to the lungs, for purification while the systemic arteries form a network of arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to other parts of the body.
The largest and primary artery is called the aorta, and extends from the left ventricle of the heart. It branches into the other arteries that carry oxygenated blood to the bo … dy.   aorta. + 139 others found this useful. 
Small Vessel Coronary Disease. Small vessel coronary disease is a type of coronary heart disease (CHD) that affects the heart's arterioles and capillaries. Small vessel coronary disease is also known as Syndrome X, microvascular dysfunction, non-obstructive coronary disease, or microvascular angina. 
Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system.
The two main coronary arteries are the left main and right coronary arteries. Left main coronary artery (LMCA). The left main coronary artery supplies blood to the left side of the heart muscle (the left ventricle and left atrium). The left main coronary divides into branches: The left anterior descending artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and supplies blood to the front of the left side of the heart. The circumflex artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and encircles the heart muscle. This artery supplies blood to the outer side and back of the heart.
Anatomy of the coronary arteries. Your left ventricle pumps blood into the main artery of your body, called the aorta. See a picture of the heart and coronary arteries. Close to the heart, the two main coronary arteries branch off of your aorta. 1  The left main coronary artery is a short vessel that branches into the: 
Arteries: Arteries are blood vessels that supply blood to the tissues of body. They carry the blood away from heart and because the blood inside them is oxygenated, they appear red in color. 
The aorta is the root systemic artery. It receives blood directly from the left ventricle of the heart via the aortic valve. As the aorta branches, and these arteries branch in turn, they become successively smaller in diameter, down to the arteriole. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system.