To get rid of tracked changes and comments, you need to accept or reject the changes and delete the comments. Here's how: On the Review tab, in the Tracking group, click the arrow next to Show Markup. Make sure a check mark appears next to each of the following items: On the Review tab, in the Changes group, click Next or Previous. Do one of the following: In the Changes group, click Accept. In the Changes group, click Reject. Repeat steps 3 and 4 until all the tracked changes in the document have been accepted or rejected and all the comments have been deleted.
To check a document: Open the document you want to inspect for tracked changes and comments. Click the Microsoft Office Button, point to Prepare, and then click Inspect Document. In the Document Inspector dialog box, click Inspect. Review the inspection results. On the Review tab, in the Changes group, click Next or Previous. Do one of the following: In the Changes group, click Accept. In the Changes group, click Reject. Repeat steps 3 and 4 until all the tracked changes in the document have been accepted or rejected and all the comments have been deleted.
Open your Word document, then click the Review tab. To accept all of the Track Changes at once, click the arrow under Accept, then select Accept All Changes in Document.. To reject all the changes and keep your document as-is, click the arrow under Reject, then select Reject All Changes in Document.. To delete all the comments and notes in the sidebar, click Delete in the Comments category, then select Delete All Comments in Document.. Accepting or rejecting Track Changes in Word can get tedious, so Word provides an option to either accept or reject all changes in your document at once.
1 Revise documents with Track Changes and Comments in Word 2007, a training course, will teach you how to review, accept, reject, and hide tracked changes in Word 2007, and along the way you get to practice. Bonus track (changes): Remove tracked changes and comments from a document shows how to ensure that track changes and comments are not left in your Word 2007 documents when you distribute them.
Open your document in Microsoft 2010 and locate the Review tab. Step 2: Locate the Track Changes icon at the top of the screen; be sure that Track Changes is disabled. If Track Changes is enabled, as in the screen shot below, be sure that you click the Track Changes icon to disable this feature before you proceed. 
If there is already a check next to Reviewing, the toolbar is already shown. Look on the reviewing toolbar for a document with a green check on it-there is a little arrow to the right. Click it and choose Accept all changes in Document.. After doing this, to the right of this button there is a Track Changes button. Click it to turn it off. Hope this helps! Best Regards, Brandon. Ask Your Own Mac Question. Customer: replied 5 years ago. Hi there, If you already have a document that has Track Changes enabled, you will first have to accept all changes before you can
Get rid of tracked changes and comments, once and for all Applies to: Microsoft Office Word 2003 http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/help/HA010983881033.aspx Applies to Microsoft Office Word 2003 Microsoft Word 2002 You receive a document in an e-mail message from your colleague. 
To delete the tracked changes permanently, accept or reject them. Click Review Next Accept or Reject. Word accepts the change or removes it and then moves to the next change. To accept all the changes at the same time, click the arrow by Accept and click Accept All Changes. To remove comments from your document, delete them. Click the comment and then click Review Delete Comment. Or click Review, click the arrow by Delete Comment, and click Delete All Comments in Documen