Summer. There is no better time to visit the city of Vancouver than the summer. The weather is dry and very sunny and the temperatures tend to be moderate. July and August are perfect as they see temperatures with an average high of 21.7 Celsius (71.1 Fahrenheit) and 21.9 Celsius (71.4 Fahrenheit) respectively.
Days of Hot Weather in Vancouver. Vancouver's hottest days usually have temperatures in the high-twenties Celsius. Just once every three years on average does the thermometer nudge above 30 degrees Celsius (86 °F). Temperatures above 35 °C (95 °F) are not expected here.
Average temperatures for July at cities and towns throughout British Columbia are given below. The tables list the normals for maximum and minimum monthly temperatures, in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit, based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010.
The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Vancouver, British Columbia during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below monthly and annually for the city, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture.
Vancouver weather is infamously wet, yet mild year-round. As writer Allan Fotheringham put it, Vancouver is the Canadian city with the best climate and the worst weather.. From high 70's Fahrenheit (low 20's Celsius) in summer to mid 40's Fahrenheit (0° to 5° Celsius) in winter, the climate is seldom unpleasant.
July in Vancouver has the fewest rainy days, most hours of sunlight, moderate humidity and is warm, but comfortable. 1  Average July temperature: 17ºC / 63ºF. 2  July average high: 23ºC / 74ºF. 3  July average low: 12ºC / 54ºF. 4  July is the least rainy month in a city famous for its rain.
Vancouver in the Summer. In June, July and August, Vancouver warms up considerably. The weather during the summer months is usually warm and pleasant, with daytime average temperatures around 20°C. July and August are the driest months of the year, but you'll still see rain on around 6 days each month.