Similarly, results of the QUEST* study provide evidence that early treatment helps lengthen life. Dogs treated with VETMEDIN lived virtually twice as long as the ACE inhibitor–treated dogs (267 days vs. 140 days) in the QUEST trial, suggesting that earlier treatment with VETMEDIN helps extend life. Studies show importance of acting early. A critical point occurs when dogs suffering from congestive heart failure (CHF) begin to show clinical signs. As seen here, following the onset of clinical signs of CHF, progression to death is rapid.
Vetmedin ®. Vetmedin ® is a medication that has been prescribed by your vet to treat your dog’s heart condition. To find out more about Vetmedin ® and see answers to common questions read the links below. Should you have any concerns or questions about your dogs condition or treatment then you should consult your vet. 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Pimobendan is a cardiac drug used to treat dogs with congestive heart failure. Pimobendan helps strengthen the heart's muscular contractions and dilates the blood vessels. Pimobendan is offered as oblong, half-scored chewable tablets in two sizes (1.25 mg and 5 mg). 
The safe use of VETMEDIN has not been evaluated in dogs younger than 6 months of age, dogs with congenital heart defects, dogs with diabetes mellitus or other serious metabolic diseases, dogs used for breeding, or pregnant or lactating bitches. Use only in dogs with clinical evidence of heart failure. The safety of VETMEDIN has not been established in dogs with asymptomatic heart disease or in heart failure caused by etiologies other than atrioventricular valvular insufficiency (AVVI) or dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).
Pimobendan (Vetmedin®) is a drug that is approved for use in dogs with congestive heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy or mitral valve disease. It is sometimes used in cats but its use in cats is more controversial than its use in dogs. Please note: this article has been provided for informational purposes only. However, its use in cats is still somewhat controversial. How Pimobendan (Vetmedin®) Works in Congestive Heart Failure for Dogs and Cats. Pimobendan has two different methods of improving the heart's function. It acts on the heart muscle itself to improve its ability to contract normally.
Studies show benefits of early VETMEDIN use in dogs with CHF. The VetSCOPE* study results support an early therapeutic role for VETMEDIN. In the VetSCOPE trial, clinical signs in dogs treated with VETMEDIN improved significantly by Day 7 and continued to improve throughout the trial. Studies show importance of acting early. A critical point occurs when dogs suffering from congestive heart failure (CHF) begin to show clinical signs. As seen here, following the onset of clinical signs of CHF, progression to death is rapid.
Vetmedin can help relieve the symptoms associated with certain types of heart failure. It may take a few weeks to see outward improvement in your dog. This medication will not sure heart disease but will help to increase your dogs comfort and length of life in some cases. Uses: Vetmedin is used to treat dogs (older than 6 months) with mild, moderate, or severe congestive heart failure due to atrioventricular valvular insufficiency or dilated cardiomyopathy. Generic Name: Pimobendan (drug name).
Vetmedin can help relieve the symptoms associated with certain types of heart failure. It may take a few weeks to see outward improvement in your dog. This medication will not sure heart disease but will help to increase your dogs comfort and length of life in some cases. 
Vetmedin is a prescription inodilator that helps extend the life expectancy of dogs with congestive heart failure by helping the heart pump more efficiently. Vetmedin opens up the blood vessels that take blood away from the heart, reducing the work heart has to do to pump blood. 
Vetmedin is a prescription medication used in dogs to increase the ability of the heart to pump blood. •. Vetmedin is used for the management of mild, moderate, or severe congestive heart failure due to atrioventricular valvular insufficiency or dilated cardiomyopathy. Increases the ability of the heart to pump blood. How it works: Vetmedin opens up the blood vessels that take blood away from the heart, effectively reducing work the heart does to pump blood. At the same time, Vetmedin opens up the blood vessels returning blood to the heart, reducing pressure on the heart.