Health IT Salaries Continue To Rise. With demand for health IT professionals continuing to exceed the supply, the average salary in the field reached $113,269 in 2013, and the median salary was $95,000, according to a new survey from the Health Information Management and Systems Society (HIMSS). 
While there isn’t data for healthcare risk managers, the average (non-healthcare) risk manager makes the most money in New York, NY, with a reported average salary of $121,000 per year. According to PayScale, the average salary for a Certified Diabetes Educator is $61,184 per year, with an average reported salary of $45,205 to $80,052 per year.
Average Risk Manager salaries for job postings in New York, NY are 36% higher than average Risk Manager salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Average Healthcare Risk Management salaries for job postings in Florida are 7% lower than average Healthcare Risk Management salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Healthcare Risk Management Managers in the United States take home approximately $74K annually on average. Job satisfaction is high and work is enjoyable for most Healthcare Risk Management Managers. Female Healthcare Risk Management Managers far outnumber their male contemporaries among survey respondents. Healthcare Risk Management Managers with a lot of experience do not necessarily enjoy more money. Folks who are navigating the first five years of their careers have a median salary of approximately $67K in this position.
Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Healthcare Risk Management Managers with a lot of experience do not necessarily enjoy more money. Folks who are navigating the first five years of their careers have a median salary of approximately $67K in this position.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Risk Management Director-Healthcare in the United States is $109,177, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Risk Management Director-Healthcare in the United States are expected to make less than $109,177. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Risk Management Director-Healthcare are expected to make less than the median.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Risk Management Director-Healthcare may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Risk Management Director-Healthcare are expected to make less than the median.
Average Healthcare Risk Manager Salaries. The average salary for healthcare risk manager jobs is $70,000. Average healthcare risk manager salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term healthcare risk manager anywhere in the job listing.
Those who have been around for five to 10 years don't get much more, though; the median salary in that group is $67K. Healthcare Risk Management Managers with one to two decades of relevant experience report an average salary of approximately $80K. Healthcare Risk Management Managers with a lot of experience do not necessarily enjoy more money. Folks who are navigating the first five years of their careers have a median salary of approximately $67K in this position.