Metformin is an oral diabetes medicine that helps control blood sugar levels. Metformin is for people with type 2 diabetes. Metformin is sometimes used in combination with insulin or other medications, but it is not for treating type 1 diabetes. 
Metformin, marketed under the tradename Glucophage among others, is an antidiabetic medication which is taken by mouth. It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function. Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce blood sugar levels in people, and in 1957, French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes.
What you need to know about Metformin HCl. One of the more often approved medications in treating diabetes is Metformin HCl (Glucophage®). It is prescribed to type 2 diabetes patients to decrease their levels of blood sugar. Metformin hydrochloride is the abbreviated form of Metformin HCl. The effects of the medicine are as follows: 
Metformin is used to treat high blood sugar levels that are caused by a type of diabetes mellitus or sugar diabetes called type 2 diabetes. Using metformin alone, with a type of oral antidiabetic medicine called a sulfonylurea, or with insulin, will help to lower blood sugar when it is too high and help restore the way you use food to make energy. Many people can control type 2 diabetes with diet and exercise.
Metformin hydrochloride, or HCL, is an oral medication available by prescription. The medication works along with a proper diet and exercise to lower blood glucose levels in diabetic patients and for other purposes determined by a physician. Metformin HCL is available in regular and extended-release oral tablets. Physicians prescribe regular 500 mg tablets for administration in divided doses throughout the day, while extended-release medication administration occurs with the evening meal each day, according to RxList.com.
Patients use metformin HCL to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus. This form of diabetes is non-insulin dependent and the body allows unused sugars to increase in the bloodstream. Metformin works to lower the blood sugar level, but does not affect the production of insulin. Metformin HCL is available in regular and extended-release oral tablets. Physicians prescribe regular 500 mg tablets for administration in divided doses throughout the day, while extended-release medication administration occurs with the evening meal each day, according to RxList.com.
Descriptions. Metformin is used to treat high blood sugar levels that are caused by a type of diabetes mellitus or sugar diabetes called type 2 diabetes. With this type of diabetes, insulin produced by the pancreas is not able to get sugar into the cells of the body where it can work properly.
Uses of This Medicine. Metformin is used to treat high blood sugar levels that are caused by a type of diabetes mellitus or sugar diabetes called type 2 diabetes. With this type of diabetes, insulin produced by the pancreas is not able to get sugar into the cells of the body where it can work properly. Using metformin alone, with a type of oral antidiabetic medicine called a sulfonylurea, or with insulin, will help to lower blood sugar when it is too high and help restore the way you use food to make energy. Many people can control type 2 diabetes with diet and exercise.