23) Which term best describes those processes that move weathered rock materials and soils downslope? A) podzolization B) slope sheeting C) mass wasting D) talus transfer Answer: C Diff: 1 24) Assume that water filling a crack in a rock undergoes cycles of freezing and melting. A) soil bacteria produce organic acids that precipitate calcium carbonate in the B horizon B) iron oxides and aluminum-rich clays are precipitated in the B horizon C) humus accumulates below the solum in the C horizon D) clays are eluviated upward from the C horizon Answer: B Diff: 1.
Soils supply plants with mineral nutrients held in place by the clay and humus content of the soil. For optimum plant growth, the generalized content of soil components by volume should be roughly 50% solids (45% mineral and 5% organic matter), and 50% voids of which half is occupied by water and half by gas. Gravel, sand and silt are the larger soil particles, and their mineralogy is often inherited from the parent material of the soil, but may include products of weathering (such as concretions of calcium carbonate or iron oxide), or residues of plant and animal life (such as silica phytoliths).
The development of all karst landforms requires the presence of rock which is capable of being dissolved by surface water or ground water. The term karst describes a distinctive topography that indicates dissolution (also called chemical solution) of underlying soluble rocks by surface water or ground water. Cracks and joints that interconnect in the soil and bedrock allow the water to reach a zone below the surface of the land where all the fractures and void spaces are completely filled (also known as saturated) with water. This water-rich zone is called the saturated zone and its upper surface is called the water table.
Weathering describes the means by which soil, rocks and minerals are changed by physical and chemical processes into other soil components. Weathering is an integral part of soil development. Depending on the soil-forming factors in an area, weathering may proceed rapidly over a decade or slowly over millions of years. Soils have been referred to as young, mature, and old, depending on the degree of weathering. A mature soil is in equilibrium with its environment and shows full development of layers or horizons in its profile (Fig.
8. The absorption of water by a mineral, usually in weathering. 9. A physical weathering mechanism in which rocks crack and fragment. 11. The most important factor in the type and formation of soils. 13. This term describes the tendency of a chemical or mineral substance to remain in a given form. 14. DOWN 1. Describes a particular level in a rock or soil section with distinct characteristics. 2. A rock composed primarily of hydrous aluminum oxides, formed by intense chemical weathering. 3. A common soil type in arid regions, characterized by accumulations of calcium carbonate in the A-horizon. 5.
Parent material is the underlying geological material (generally bedrock or a superficial or drift deposit) in which soil horizons form. 
Large drainage systems in karst areas are likely to have both fluvial (surface) and karst (underground) drainage components. As stated in the introduction, the term karst describes a distinctive topography that indicates dissolution of underlying rocks by surface water or ground water. Cracks and joints that interconnect in the soil and bedrock allow the water to reach a zone below the surface of the land where all the fractures and void spaces are completely filled (also known as saturated) with water. This water-rich zone is called the saturated zone and its upper surface is called the water table.
CHAPTER 6 (Weathering and Soil). 1. Weathering is a term which describes the general process by which rocks are broken down at the Earths surface into such things as sediments, clays, soils and substances that are dissolved in water. 2. The process of weathering typically begins when the earths crust is uplifted by tectonic forces. 10. Figure 6.5: As weathering breaks down a rock into smaller particles, the surface area increases so that the process of chemical weathering is accelerated. Dissolving of Minerals. 1. Slightly acidic rainwater can also react with non-silicates in a rock or soil.