LDH is the short form for the Lactate Dehydrogenase test. This test is typically used as a measure of tissue damage in an individual. It may be used to measure acute tissue damage, which has occurred due to a recent illness or injury. It is found in almost all body tissues and can be measured by a simple blood test. Normal LDH levels are generally low and range between 140 IU/liter to 333 IU/ liter. Low LDH levels are usually no cause for concern.
One such test is called the LDH isoenzymes test. LDH isoenzymes are five kinds of the LDH enzyme that are found in specific concentrations in different organs and tissues. By measuring the blood levels of these isoenzymes, doctors can get a better idea of the type, location, and severity of the cellular damage. Lactate dehydrogenase (also called lactic acid dehydrogenase, or LDH) is an enzyme found in almost all body tissues. It plays an important role in cellular respiration, the process by which glucose (sugar) from food is converted into usable energy for our cells.
An LDH blood test is performed to detect and determine the extent of tissue disease or damage to the brain, kidney, muscles, liver, and lungs. It is performed in case of bone fractures, anemia, and cancers. This test can be called for if the doctor wants to ascertain or rule out organ disease or damage. After a tissue damage, LDH level increases in the blood. If the LDH level is uncommonly high, then the doctor will call for LDH blood test to identify organs that have been affected. Levels of all five isoenzymes or components of LDH are taken into account when diagnosing LDH blood test results.
This is a blood test to measure the different LDH isoenzymes that may be in your blood. Enzymes are proteins that cause chemical reactions in your body and provide energy. 
This is a blood test that measures the level of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) in your body. LDH is an enzyme, or catalyst, found in many different tissues in your body. These include your red blood cells, skeletal muscles, kidneys, brain, and lungs. You may also have a lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme test. Your total LDH is made up of 5 isoenzymes numbered LDH-1 through LDH-5. The concentration of each isoenzyme depends on the tissue. For example, LDH-1 and LDH-2 are found mainly in heart tissue. LDH-5 is found mostly in the liver.
In order to know what is LDH blood test, one would need knowledge about what does LDH mean. LDH is known by various names, LD, lactatic dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, LDH isoenzymes, or total LDH. LDH (consisting of five molecular forms of LDH) is an enzyme found in all cells and tissues of the body. This enzyme is released into the blood once there is trauma or damage to a tissue or organ. After a tissue damage, LDH level increases in the blood. If the LDH level is uncommonly high, then the doctor will call for LDH blood test to identify organs that have been affected. Levels of all five isoenzymes or components of LDH are taken into account when diagnosing LDH blood test results.
Introduction. A lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) test measures the amount of LDH in the blood. Lactate dehydrogenase is an enzyme that the body uses during the process of turning sugar into energy for your cells to use. LDH is found in many of the body's tissues and organs, including the muscles, liver, heart, pancreas, kidneys, brain and blood cells. The LDH test is mainly used to help identify the location and severity of tissue damage in the body
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is an enzyme that helps facilitate the process of turning sugar into energy for your cells to use. LDH is present in many kinds of organs and tissues throughout the body, including the liver, heart, pancreas, kidneys, skeletal muscles, brain, and blood cells. When illness or injury damages your cells, LDH may be released into the bloodstream, causing the level of LDH in your blood to rise. Taking an LDH Test. LDH levels are normally measured using a blood draw. Occasionally, LDH levels may be measured using urine or cerebrospinal fluid. In adults, blood is taken from a vein at the inner elbow or the back of the hand.
Blood test for measuring LDH is a commonly ordered test. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH or LD) is an enzyme whose most important role is catalyzing the interconversion of pyruvic acid and lactic acid. The conversion of pyruvic acid to lactic acid is an important step in cellular respiration. 
LDH is most often measured to check for tissue damage. The protein LDH is in many body tissues, especially the heart, liver, kidney, muscles, brain, blood cells, and lungs. Other conditions under which the test may be done: 1  Anemia of vitamin B-12 deficiency. 2  Leukemia or lymphoma. 3  Megaloblastic anemia. 4  Pernicious anemia. 