By Regina Bailey. Definition: prefix (hetero-) - other, different. Examples: heterozygous (hetero-zygous) - having two different alleles for a given trait. 
homo-. 1. Combining form meaning the same, alike; opposite of hetero-. See also: homeo-. 2. chemistry Prefix used to indicate insertion of one more carbon atom in a chain. homo-, 1 prefix meaning the same: homocentric, homodont, homolysis. 2 prefix meaning the addition of one CH 2 group to the main compound: homochelidonine, homocystine, homoquinine.
1. A prefix that is often misunderstood because it has two etymological meanings: -- a) From the Greek homos meaning same / the same, as in homosexuality (same-sex love), homogenous (uniform). (The opposite is hetero-from the Greek heteros meaning different from); -- b) From the Latin homo, meaning human / human being (a member of the genus Homo), as in Homo sapiens, hominophobia, homicide. 
Hetero- (prefix). Hetero- (prefix): Combining form from the Greek heteros meaning different. The opposite is homo-from the Greek homos meaning same. For example, heterogeneous and homogeneous, heterosexual and homosexual, etc
Answer by Daniza777. Confidence votes 30. ex: homo-sexual-likes the same sex (female and female/ male and male) hetero-sexual-likes the opposite sex (female and male) homo=the same hetero-the opposite. 
Hetero-comes from the Greek word έτερος [heteros], héteros meaning other party or, another used in science as a prefix meaning; different and The latin word for (sex that, is characteristic sex or sexual). differentiation 
Hetero-: Prefix meaning different, as in heteromorphism (something that is different in form) and heterozygous (possessing two different forms of a particular gene). The opposite of hetero-is homo-. 
homo-. 1. Prefix meaning the same, alike; opposite of hetero-. 2. chemistry prefix used to indicate insertion of one more carbon atom in a chain (i.e., insertion of a methylene moiety). homo-, 1 prefix meaning the same: homocentric, homodont, homolysis. 2 prefix meaning the addition of one CH 2 group to the main compound: homochelidonine, homocystine, homoquinine.