Elegy Definition. Elegy is a form of literature which can be defined as a poem or song in the form of elegiac couplets, written in honor of someone deceased. It typically laments or mourns the death of the individual. 
Full Definition of ELEGY. 1. : a poem in elegiac couplets. 2. a: a song or poem expressing sorrow or lamentation especially for one who is dead b: something (as a speech) resembling such a song or poem. 3. a: a pensive or reflective poem that is usually nostalgic or melancholy b: a short pensive musical composition. See elegy defined for English-language learners.
Elegy is a form of poetry natural to the reflective mind. It may treat of any subject, but it must treat of no subject for itself; but always and exclusively with reference to the poet. As he will feel regret for the past or desire for the future, so sorrow and love became the principal themes of the elegy. Other than epitaphs, examples of ancient elegy as a poem of mourning include Catullus ' Carmen 101, on his dead brother, and elegies by Propertius on his dead mistress Cynthia and a matriarch of the prominent Cornelian family.
Elegy Poems. Below are examples of elegy poems. This list of poems in the elegy form of poetry is made of PoetrySoup member poems. PoetrySoup is a great resource for examples of elegy poems or a list of elegy poetry. These examples illustrate what elegy poems look like and its form. 
elegy. Use elegy in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an elegy is a mournful piece of music or is a poem written as an ode to the dead. An example of an elegy is a poem written to honor a deceased man. -·gies. 1  any poem in elegiac verse. 2  a poem or song of lament and praise for the dead, as Shelley's “Adonais”. 3  any poem, song, etc. in a mournfully contemplative tone: Gray's “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”.
The Greek term elegeia (Greek: ἐλεγεία; from ἔλεγος, elegos, lament) originally referred to any verse written in elegiac couplets and covering a wide range of subject matter (death, love, war). The term also included epitaphs, sad and mournful songs, and commemorative verses. Other than epitaphs, examples of ancient elegy as a poem of mourning include Catullus ' Carmen 101, on his dead brother, and elegies by Propertius on his dead mistress Cynthia and a matriarch of the prominent Cornelian family.
Definition of Elegy. An elegy is a mournful poem, usually written in remembrance of a lost one for a funeral or as a lament. An elegy tells the traffic story of an individual, or an individual’s loss, rather than the collective story of a people, which can be found in epic poetr
Lesson Summary. So, an elegy is a reflective poem that laments the loss of someone or something and differs from a eulogy in form and tone. While modern elegies are loosely structured and have a more broad sadness, traditional elegies follow the three stages of loss: lament, praise and solace. An elegy and a eulogy are so similarly spelled and used that they can easily be misunderstood, but their differences are fairly easy to identify. First, they are different forms of writing. Whereas an elegy is a poem or even a song, a eulogy is written as an essay or a short piece of prose.
An elegy is a poem of mourning; this is often the poet mourning one person, but the definition also includes Thomas Gray's 'Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard', which mourns all the occupants of that churchyard, and looks into the future to mourn the poet's own death. 