In South Africa it is widely planted, although some may call it Colombar, a name which is unique to South Africa, and which has helped to distinguish wines from this country from similar wine products from France or Australia. No matter what it is called, Colombard is a very popular wine to grow. Its origins lie in the South West of France, and it was mostly used as a base wine on which other white wines could be mixed. This has lead to its decline in the country as more wine growers produce Chenin Blanc for that purpose. This is made from 100% Colombard grapes, and has a light honey taste with a strong hint of guava and tropical fruits. The sweetness of the wine, plus the golden-green colour of its current maturity, mean that the wine is suitable with a light lunch, or as an aperitif.
Colombard. Colombard is one of the grapes used in both Cognac and Armagnac. As a table wine, it is hugely popular in California, where it was once known as French Colombard. Today, French growers are producing light, fragrant whites of their own. Colombard makes delightfully crisp, dry whites with a leafy, spring blossom fragrance and fresh green apple flavors.
Colombard is a white French wine grape variety that is the offspring of Gouais blanc and Chenin blanc. This makes the grape the sibling of the Armagnac Meslier-Saint-Francois françois and the nearly Extinct cognac Grape balzac. blanc 
Colombard is also planted in South Africa, where it is known as Colombar. A lot of this is used in the production of brandy, but as in California, it is also used to make bulk wine. At this time, Colombard was mostly used for brandy production, and many producers considered Ugni Blanc to be a more attractive prospect for this end.
Colombard and Chardonnay blends. Which is where the highly-acidic Colombard comes in. The neutrality of this grape means that it offers little in the way of flavors but can provide some structure to the Chardonnay, making a wine that combines a fruit-driven palate with a balance of acidity. As producers begin to experiment with Chardonnay blends, they tend to use the other varieties at their disposal, and so Colombard is used mostly in regions where it is widespread.
Colombard. Colombard is one of those wines which are often drunk but rarely recognised, and that is a great pity because the grape and wine are both exceptional, and can produce very fruity, sweet liquids that make it delicious as a dinner accompaniment, or simply as an evening glass of wine. This is made from 100% Colombard grapes, and has a light honey taste with a strong hint of guava and tropical fruits. The sweetness of the wine, plus the golden-green colour of its current maturity, mean that the wine is suitable with a light lunch, or as an aperitif.
Colombard Wine. Colombard is one of the world's great blending grapes, most famously used alongside Ugni Blanc and Folle Blanche in the production of Cognac and Armagnac (see Colombard – Folle – Ugni wines). At this time, Colombard was mostly used for brandy production, and many producers considered Ugni Blanc to be a more attractive prospect for this end.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Colombard (also known as French Colombard in North America) is a white French wine grape variety that is the offspring of Gouais blanc and Chenin blanc. This grape is mainly grown in California to provide backbone, due to its natural acidic character, for white  jug wine  blends. It is also widely grown in South Africa where it is known as Colombar, the wine gives lovely flavours of Guava, and to a lesser extent in Australia.
History of the grape: Colombard is believed to be a crossing of Gouais Blanc and Chenin Blanc, although horticultural DNA tests have not been confirmed. It is believed to originate in the Charente region of France, where it was used as a primary base for Cognac and Armagnac brandy. My first Colombard, Smells a little of the ocean, oysters with the saltiness along with the sweetness of pear and green apples. It is medium bodied with the richness but not overwhelming. The crispness is refreshing but it is smooth with fruit of green...