Normal urine is clear and has a straw-yellow color. While the odor of urine can vary somewhat, in most cases, it does not have a strong smell. With dehydration, the urine is more concentrated and may have a stronger ammonia scent than normal. Consumption of certain foods, such as asparagus (which can impart a characteristic odor to urine), and taking some medications may be causes for changes in the odor of urine.
Usually cloudy and sometimes smelly urine is a sign of a urinary tract or bladder infection. An additional symptom with these infections is the frequent urge to urinate. When you do, urination burns. Urinary tract and bladder infections are treated with prescription antibacterial drugs. Since strains of bacteria do vary, your infection may not clear up by taking someone else’s medication. As such, you need to have a urine test done to determine the nature of your bacterial
Best Answer: If you have a strong odor in your urine it can be due to a lot of things. You could have an infection (such as cystitis, urinary tract infections) , dehydration, vitamins, foods. Try increasing your fluid intake and if this doesn't work, think about foods that might influence the odor. Report Abuse. It's normal for urine to have some smell. However, if you have noticed a CHANGE in your urine odour, then you might have a urinary tract infection. Visit the doctor and have a urine test performed. Source(s): I'm a medical scientist.
See your GP if: 1  You have symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI) , such as pain or a burning sensation when urinating and a need to urinate often. 2  This is the most likely cause of unexplained foul-smelling urine. 1 You have symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI) , such as pain or a burning sensation when urinating and a need to urinate often. 2  This is the most likely cause of unexplained foul-smelling urine. 3  A UTI will often get better on its own, especially if you increase your fluid intak
A urine test may be done: 1  To check for a disease or infection of the urinary tract. 2  Symptoms of a urine infection may include colored or bad-smelling urine, pain when urinating, finding it hard to urinate, flank pain, blood in the urine (hematuria), or fever. Bacteria in the urine mean a urinary tract infection (UTI). Yeast cells or parasites (such as the parasite that causes trichomoniasis) can mean an infection of the urinary tract. The presence of squamous cells may mean that the sample is not as pure as it needs to be.
Kidney problems, especially those in which kidney stones are present, will sometimes result the urine having quite a strong odor. Urinary Tract Infections-Another cause of smelly urine, particularly in women, is a urinary tract infection. Urinary tract infections (UTI) are quite common in women. Nearly half of all women experience UTI at one time or another. 
When urine persistently smells bad or has a foul, strong or unusual odor, it may be caused by an underlying disease, disorder or condition. Urine odor can be a symptom of a variety of conditions, including infection, inflammation, or other conditions of the urinary tract (kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra). Urine odor can also be caused by diseases, such as diabetes and dehydration, which affect the urinary tract as well as other body systems. Healthy urine may have a mild smell but generally does not have a foul odor. In some cases, an unusual or strong urine odor may be due to benign conditions that are not harmful, such as eating certain foods or taking certain medications.
The presence of bacteria in the urine, such as with a urinary tract infection (UTI), can affect the appearance and smell of urine. When there is an infection in the urinary tract, the urine may take on a foul-smelling odor as well as appear cloudy or bloody. A burning sensation during urination may be a symptom of a UTI. With dehydration, the urine is more concentrated and may have a stronger ammonia scent than normal. Consumption of certain foods, such as asparagus (which can impart a characteristic odor to urine), and taking some medications may be causes for changes in the odor of urine.