Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Luke and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Luke and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Luke are: The meaning of the name “Luke” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Luke is a name with Greek origins. The meaning of the name Luke is from Luciana. An alternate spelling of the name Luke includes Luc. It is less commonly a surname. Famous Lukes include country singer Luke Brian, actors Luke Perry and Luke Wilson, and comic artist Luke Ros
Latin Meaning: The name Luke is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Luke is: Light. American Meaning: The name Luke is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Luke is: Light. In Greek the meaning of the name Luke is: Light giving. From Lucania (Lucania was a district of ancient Italy). Luke was the author of the Acts of the Apostles and of the third Gospel in the New Testament, the patron saint of doctors and artists, and was known as 'the beloved physician'.
Meaning of Luke. Greek name. In Greek, the name Luke means-a native of Lucania, a region of Italy. In Greek it is spelled Loukas.. Other origins for the name Luke include-Greek, Latin-American.The name Luke is most often used as a boy name or male name. Greek Name Meaning-a native of Lucania, a region of Italy. In Greek it is spelled Loukas. Origin-Greek.
The first name is also from the short form of Lucas (Latin), a Latinate of Loukas (Old Greek); the latter means ' man from Lucania' in reference to an ancient district of southern Italy. The first name was borne in the Bible by Luke the Evangelist, companion of Paul and author of the third gospel in the New Testament. Luke is a variant (Latin) of the name Lucius (English, German, and French). The name Luke is used to a great extent; it has 36 variants that are used in English and other languages.
The name Luke is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Luke is: Luminous, white'. Greek Meaning: The name Luke is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Luke is: Light giving. From Lucania (Lucania was a district of ancient Italy). Luke was the author of the Acts of the Apostles and of the third Gospel in the New Testament, the patron saint of doctors and artists, and was known as 'the beloved physician'.
Luke /luke/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced look. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Luke is from Lucanus. Place name: a region in southern Italy. Also sometimes used as an English form of Lucius and Lucian. Luke is a very prominent first name for men (#320 out of 1220, Top 26%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#1940 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Luke for boys. Luke reached its top position of #28 in the U.S. in 2014.
Origin of the name Luke: The Middle English and Anglo-French form of Lucas. The name is borne in the Bible by one of the four evangelists, the author of the third Gospel, Luke, and the Acts of the Apostles. Lucas is an Ecclesiastic Late Latin name thought to be a derivative of Lucius, which is from the root lux (light). 
Meaning & History. English form of the Greek name λουκας (Loukas) which meant from Lucania, Lucania being a region in southern Italy (of uncertain meaning). Saint Luke, the author of the third Gospel and Acts in the New Testament, was a doctor who travelled in the company of Saint Paul. 