The type of long-term care insurance policy is critical, too. For instance, a “facility-only” policy covers care received in a licensed assisted living facility or skilled nursing facility but not the care provided in an unlicensed facility or a family member’s home. Specifically, Medicaid may pay for a respite stay at an assisted living facility for a limited duration (mostly 90 days or less). But there are factors that could reduce or stop Medicaid from paying during that time period. For example, your parent’s physical condition hasn’t improved during their stay.
How to Pay for Assisted Living. Assisted Living is necessary for many elderly but the cost can be prohibitive. While it is best to plan for the need years in advance, the reality is that most of us don't or can't pre-plan. Medicare does not pay, but fortunately there are other resources available to help. Ad.
SSI comes in the form of monthly payments, which you could use to pay for nursing home care or assisted living. To qualify for SSI, contact your state disability department. You'll need to document your financial status and you'll also need a doctor to certify that you can't work because of a medical disability. But a life insurance policy can also provide financial support now, if that's when the money would be most helpful. To cash out a policy, ask your life insurance company about accelerated or living benefits. Commonly, the company that originally issued the policy buys it back for 50 to 75 percent of its face value.
Long-term care insurance, an umbrella term for insurance that covers nursing home care, home-based health care and assisted living health care in addition to other medical services, can help shoulder the cost of assisted living services for those who have a policy with a few restrictions. Specifically, Medicaid may pay for a respite stay at an assisted living facility for a limited duration (mostly 90 days or less). But there are factors that could reduce or stop Medicaid from paying during that time period. For example, your parent’s physical condition hasn’t improved during their stay.
The average rent for a one bedroom apartment at an assisted living community is about $3,100 per month according to the 2012 A Place for Mom Cost of Senior Care Survey; in some regions the cost is higher. Income and Savings. Using personal income or savings to pay for assisted living is the simplest route. But in this trying economic climate, $3,100 or more is beyond what many seniors can afford.
– – – – –. Now that you know how to pay for assisted living, it’s time to start your search! If you’re looking for a senior living facility in the Midwest, be sure to check out Culpepper Place. Our eight senior living facilities are located in Missouri, Arkansas, and Tennessee. 
For those unable to pay for assisted living out of pocket, private insurance, Medicare or Medicaid may help — but these services generally don’t pay for everything. Long-term care insurance can address that gap, and estate planning can give you greater access to financing long-term care. 
The national average rate for assisted living is $3,000 per month, according to the AgingCare.com Assisted Living Cost data. No matter what your socio-economic status, make sure you are taking advantage of all means available that can help pay for assisted living. 
1. Pay for assisted living with veterans benefits. If your loved one (or your loved one's spouse) was a veteran, you're in luck when it comes to residential care. Veterans benefits can be used to pay for residential care in a variety of situations. But a life insurance policy can also provide financial support now, if that's when the money would be most helpful. To cash out a policy, ask your life insurance company about accelerated or living benefits. Commonly, the company that originally issued the policy buys it back for 50 to 75 percent of its face value.
The national median monthly rate for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility is $3,500, according to the 2014 Cost of Care Survey released in April by Genworth Financial Inc. of Richmond, Virginia. That's $42,000 per year, an increase of 1.45 percent over 2013. 