Kashmira is a rare baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Kashmira include Kamara, Kameara, Kameira, Kamera, Kamiera, Kamira, Kamyra, Kanarah, Kanarra, Kanarrah, Kasmira, Kazmira, Kemora, Camara (English), Camera (English), Camira, Casmira, Cynarah, Cynarra, and Cynarrah.
Kashmir /kash-mir/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAZH-meer. It is of Hindi and Sanskrit origin. The name of a state in India. Kreatif forms: Kashmirra, Kashmirri. Kashmir is an equivalently unique surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is an analysis of the usage of Kashmir and affiliated names. India is the only prominent alternative form of Kashmir (not ranked) rated in the Top 1000. Forms like Indya are uncommon.
Kashmir is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kas-hmir. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5844 in baby name popularity for girls with 22 occurrences. It ranked 4945 in popular baby names for boys with 19 occurrences. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit.
Meaning of name Kashmira, Origin of name Kashmira, Personality of name Kashmira, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Kashmira and adorable Baby Photos of Kashmira. All this and lots more... 
The number 6 has a special significance. It represents the Law and Order and also associated with a Karmic Law of cause and effect. Number 6 is a perfect number, symmetrical in all parts, the number of the Soul. Therefore, people of number Six have a special mission in their life. 1 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME
[ syll. kas-hmi-ra, ka-shm-ira ] The baby girl name Kashmira is pronounced as K AE-SHM IH RAH †. The origin of Kashmira is the Sanskrit language. Kashmira is a form of the name Kashmir. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Kashmira include Kamara, Kameara, Kameira, Kamera, Kamiera, Kamira, Kamyra, Kanarah, Kanarra, Kanarrah, Kasmira, Kazmira, Kemora, Camara (English), Camera (English), Camira, Casmira, Cynarah, Cynarra, and Cynarrah.
† approx English pronunciation for Kashmira: K as in key (K.IY) ; AE as in at (AE.T) ; SH as in she (SH.IY) ; M as in me (M.IY) ; IH as in it (IH.T) ; R as in race (R.EY.S) ; AH as in mud (M.AH.D). It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Kashmira include Kamara, Kameara, Kameira, Kamera, Kamiera, Kamira, Kamyra, Kanarah, Kanarra, Kanarrah, Kasmira, Kazmira, Kemora, Camara (English), Camera (English), Camira, Casmira, Cynarah, Cynarra, and Cynarrah.
Name Kashmira generally means Beauty of Kashmir, is of Indian origin, Name Kashmira is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Parsi or Hindu by religion. Name Kashmira belongs to rashi Mithun (Gemini) with dominant planet Mercury (Buddh) and Nakshatra (stars) Sravana, Mrigashiras.
My name is Kashmira and I love it. It has two origins-one being Sanskrit, meaning rose of Kashmere or beauty of Kashmere and the other of Old Slavic origin (which my parents found it from) meaning bringer of peace. 1 out of 1 found this comment helpful. 