Posted by Samantha Cook in Chemical Peel. ANSWER: How long it takes a chemical peel to heal depends on the type of chemical peel. More Info: Chemical peels are categorized into three subgroups, which is used depends on the severity of the skin issue. The stronger the chemical used in the procedure, the deeper the peel, and subsequently the longer the healing time. Trichloroacetic Acid Peel (TCA). The TCA peel causes a second degree burn on the epidermis and upper portion of the dermis, which means it will take longer to heal than a superficial peel. Following the procedure the skin will begin to crust and peel in the first 2-3 days. It may take up to 5-7 days to heal but some redness will likely remain
Chemical Peel Basics. Your doctor can apply a chemical peel to several areas of your body, including your face, legs, arms, hands or chest, according to the American Academy of Dermatology. Considerations. If your doctor recommends a TCA chemical peel, you may need to undergo more than one procedure to achieve the desired results, Brigham and Women's Hospital explains. If you undergo a phenol peel, your new skin may not be able to create normal levels of pigmentation.
1 A chemical called phenol is usually used for a deep peel. 2  Deep peels may not be used on darker skin types, because they tend to bleach the skin (hypopigmentation). 3  Even in lighter-skinned people, phenol peels—or any type of deep resurfacing—may bleach the skin. A deep peel causes a deeper second-degree burn of the skin. Skin regrowth takes between 10 to 14 days after a deep peel. The skin remains extremely red for 3 weeks, up to 2 months for some people. Most people take about 2 weeks off from work.
You should go see your doctor. You probably have a chemical burn of your skin from overdoing it with the chemical peels. There could be a risk of skin infection, scarring, or other damage and this needs to be checked out by your primary care doctor or dermatologist to see if there is something that needs to be done. 
Chemical peels can make a dramatic, visible change to your skin. Watch how my skin changes on a daily basis for one week following a chemical peel. Watch me receiving the chemical peel that delivered these results: http://youtu.be/9QPMYvGK5Qo. My blog: http://www.jessicarom.com
Depending on the specific chemical used, peel procedures remove varying amounts of the top layers of your skin. Healing times for chemical peels also vary according to the chemical in use. Considerations. If your doctor recommends a TCA chemical peel, you may need to undergo more than one procedure to achieve the desired results, Brigham and Women's Hospital explains. If you undergo a phenol peel, your new skin may not be able to create normal levels of pigmentation.
In a chemical peel, a chemical solution is applied to the skin and allowed to soak in. Over the next 1 to 14 days, depending on how deeply the chemical penetrated the skin, the skin peels off. This procedure destroys parts of the skin in a controlled way so that new skin can grow in its place. A deep peel causes a deeper second-degree burn of the skin. Skin regrowth takes between 10 to 14 days after a deep peel. The skin remains extremely red for 3 weeks, up to 2 months for some people. Most people take about 2 weeks off from work.
Chemical Peels and Your Skin. Chemical peels can improve the skin 's appearance. In this treatment, a chemical solution is applied to the skin, which makes it  blister  and eventually peel off. The new skin is usually smoother and less wrinkled than the old skin. Chemical peels can be done on the face, neck, or hands. 
A chemical peel is a procedure that uses the application of a chemical solution on your skin to achieve goals such as skin pigmentation correction and reduction of acne scars or wrinkles. Considerations. If your doctor recommends a TCA chemical peel, you may need to undergo more than one procedure to achieve the desired results, Brigham and Women's Hospital explains. If you undergo a phenol peel, your new skin may not be able to create normal levels of pigmentation.