show more I've had PMDD (severe late luetal phase pms) for almost a year now and it has taken over my life. I have tried various contraceptive pills which make some difference but the underlying feelings still remain. My relationship is on the verge of breaking down and I worry about how much it is affecting me socially...
PMDD is much worse than what you're describing. That sounds like PMS. I have PMDD and I am prescribed prozac and birth control to help it. Ever since I was 14 I remember going absolutely crazy a couple days before my period. I keep trying to tell him, yes there is and its real and I did see a psychiatrist before this relationship, she diagnosed me and put me on prozac 10mg and it was the best 2 years of my life. But then i lost my health insurance and havent been on it since.
I didn't use to have PMS/PMDD problems. Sure, I had my two days of being emotional right before my period, but that was about it. In the past few years, however, things have taken a different turn. Things changed subtly, so I wasn't aware at first. I keep trying to tell him, yes there is and its real and I did see a psychiatrist before this relationship, she diagnosed me and put me on prozac 10mg and it was the best 2 years of my life. But then i lost my health insurance and havent been on it since.
It can include a list of a number of symptoms occurring 7-14 days prior to your period. These symptoms can include: bloating, cramping, fatigue, irritability, mental fog, mood swings, sweet or salt cravings, acne, anxiety, depression, lack of coordination, swollen and painful breasts and fibrocystic breasts. In all my years in working with this condition on myself and with my clients I have learned what does and does not work and how to approach PMS naturally. Rule of thumb as I always claim before dispelling any health advice or recommendations is that I am not a physician and I do not “prescribe” or make health claims.
My PMS is unbelievable. For about a week before my period I am very depressed, angry and resentful of my life and family. I feel exhausted and hate my duties and chores around the house, so the house is a complete disaster during these spells.. Hi, Ladies, I'm a man with a wife whose horrible PMS is ruining my marriage. I've read this entire thread twice. My problem is, if I breath a _WORD_ about the possibility that my spouse consider she's not being completely rational and under the influence of PMS things get very, very ugly. Like, divorce ugly
This is what I would do if I were in your shoes. It kind of sounds like premenstrual dysphoric disorder, if not that, at least severe PMS. Educate yourself on PMDD & PMS. Talk to your spouse is a loving manner and have information to back up why it's PMDD, if you think it is.
Print. PMDD, or Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder, is the most severe form of PMS (Premenstrual Syndrome.) It is believed to affect 3-8% of reproductive-aged women, and while its symptoms are identical to PMS, its impact on women’s lives is much greater. Women with PMDD find that their premenstrual symptoms are truly debilitating for anywhere from a couple of days to a couple of weeks before their period. While PMDD is a distinct diagnosis compared to PMS, misconceptions about the difference between the two abound.
I Have Pmdd. I'm a 21 year old female and I'm pretty sure I have PMDD. Worst part is, I feel so alone because no one else that I know of ever feels the way I do! People think it's crazy and my boyfriend is struggling to deal with it, he's a person who gets really angry. I know I'm hard to live with, and the anger and frustration from my boyfriend makes it worse, because I can't really explain myself. I feel so pathetic. He said he was disappointed in me. I ruined Christmas with my moods, I ruined Valentines Day with my moods and so many other days.
PMDD literally ruining my life!? I've had PMDD (severe late luetal phase pms) for almost a year now and it has taken over my life. I have tried various contraceptive pills which make some difference but the underlying feelings still remain. My relationship is on the verge of breaking down and I worry about how much it is affecting me socially...