Although 70° F is the ideal temperature for exterior staining, the safe range spans from 50° F to 90° F. Avoid staining when humidity is high or the day after a rainstorm, and never stain in direct sunlight. As always, check the label for product-specific directions. 
Lowe's: Apply stain when the weather is agreeable. The best temperature is about 70° F. 50-90° F is the optimum working range. Wait for a day with low humidity and avoid staining in the direct sun. Stain dries in 24-48 hours depending on house conditions and weather. Apply stain only at the proper temperature. For most stains, 70 degrees Fahrenheit is the optimum, with the safety range from 50 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit. Stains do vary, so check the label first. Avoid high humidity when applying stain
A. The 60° F guideline is ideal. The minimum application temperature on the label should be followed carefully. This typically is 50° F. for latex paints. We suggest these points: Do not apply the paint if the air temp. is below the recommended minimum, or is predicted to drop below the minimum for the next 36 hours. Do not apply the paint if the surface is below the minimum recommended temperature
1 For most stains, 70 degrees Fahrenheit is the optimum, with the safety range from 50 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit. 2  Stains do vary, so check the label first. 3  Avoid high humidity and staining on hot surfaces. 4  All finishes, including stains and paint, have trouble drying in moist conditions. To assure the highest quality results when applying exterior wood stain, follow these steps and helpful tips from Sherwin-Williams stain experts. 1  Use the right brush. 2  Use a natural-bristle brush for oil stains and a synthetic-bristle brush for latex stains.
1 Apply stain only at the proper temperature. 2  For most stains, 70 degrees Fahrenheit is the optimum, with the safety range from 50 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Stains do vary, so check the label first. To assure the highest quality results when applying exterior wood stain, follow these steps and helpful tips from Sherwin-Williams stain experts. 1  Use the right brush. 2  Use a natural-bristle brush for oil stains and a synthetic-bristle brush for latex stains.
As a general rule, the air temperature for good painting conditions ranges from 55 degrees to 85 degrees. Unfortunately, when applying paint or stain it is the surface temperature, not the air temperature that is important. Air temperature and surface temperature can be miles apart. If a wood deck or wall is in direct sunlight it may well be 30 to 50 degrees hotter than the air temperature. Apply stain only at the proper temperature. For most stains, 70 degrees Fahrenheit is the optimum, with the safety range from 50 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit. Stains do vary, so check the label first. Avoid high humidity when applying stain
Some deck stains need to be applied when the temperature is at least 60 degrees. Check the label on the deck stain you are using. In addition, once the stain is applied the temperature should not drop below freezing for 8-12 hours. This can otherwise hinder the curing process of the stain. Penetrating stains will not cure properly while film forming deck stain’s adhesion will be jeopardized.
1 Do not apply when wood is hot to the touch. 2  Minimum temperature is 45 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Brush on, use a stain pad, or spray on using a pump up sprayer equipped with plastic tip. 4  To allow for maximum penetration wait 30 minutes, then use a nap-free shop cloth and wipe the entire surface, removing excess product. 