This unusual surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is a locational name from any of the various places called Shirley in Derbyshire, Hampshire, Surrey and the West Midlands. The placename derives from the Olde English pre 7th Century scir, meaning bright, plus leah, wood, clearing. 
Meaning of Shirley. English name. In English, the name Shirley means-bright meadow.The name Shirley originated as an English name. The name Shirley is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-bright meadow. Origin-England
Shirley /shir-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SURE-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Shirley is  bright meadow . Place name. Made famous by child actress and American ambassador Shirley Temple-Black. Actress Shirley MacLaine; politician Shirley Chisholm; novelist Shirley Hazzard. 
Meaning of name Shirley. Etymology: From a surname which was originally derived from a place name meaning bright clearing in Old English. Saint : Origin: English. 
[ 3 syll. (s)hir-ley, sh-irl-ey ] The baby girl name Shirley is pronounced as-SH ER ER Liy- †. Shirley is an English name of Old English origin. Shirley is of the meaning meadow shire; bright meadow. It is from the elements 'scir' meaning shire, county, bright; 'leah' wood, clearing, meadow. 
SHIRLEY. as a First Name. See Shirley as a last name. Transferred use of the surname, in origin a local name from any of the various places (in the West Midlands, Derbyshire, Hampshire, and Surrey) named in Old English from scīr ‘county, shire’ or scīr ‘bright’ + lēah ‘wood, clearing’.
English Meaning: The name Shirley is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Shirley is: Bright wood; bright meadow; from the white meadow. Famous Bearers: child star Shirley Temple. American Meaning: The name Shirley is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Shirley is: Bright wood; bright meadow; from the white meadow. Famous Bearers: child star Shirley Temple.
Meaning & History. From a surname which was originally derived from a place name meaning bright clearing in Old English. This is the name of the main character in Charlotte Bronte's semi-autobiographical novel 'Shirley' (1849). The child actress Shirley Temple (1928-) helped to popularize this name. Related Names. 
Origin of the name Shirley: Transferred use fo the surname originating from the English place-name Shirley, which is derived from the Old English elements scire (shire) or scīr (bright, clear) and lēah (wood, clearing, meadow, enclosure). 