Located in the city of Los Angeles, Sylmar is a perfect place for families to get away from the hustle and bustle of downtown L.A. without getting too far out into a rural area. Today, roughly 91,000 people live in the community, according to Sperling's Best Places, which is a 9 percent increase from 2000. One of the most attractive features of Sylmar apartments for rent is the low median rental rate, which is 68 percent less than the average in Los Angeles.
detailed map of Sylmar and near places. Welcome to the Sylmar google satellite map! This place is situated in Los Angeles County, California, United States, its geographical coordinates are 34° 18' 28 North, 118° 26' 54 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Sylmar. 
Sylmar is a moderately diverse neighborhood in the San Fernando Valley region of Los Angeles, California. Historically, known for its profusion of olive orchards, Sylmar can trace its past to the 18th century and the founding of the San Fernando Mission. In 1890, olive production was begun in a systematic manner. Although Sylmar is only 20 miles (32 km) from the Pacific Ocean, the Valley can be considerably hotter than the Los Angeles Basin during the summer months and cooler during the winter months.
Sylmar (GNIS FID: 1661539) is a populated place LOCATED WITHIN the City of Los Angeles. In turn, the City of Los Angeles is located within Los Angeles County. Sylmar is located at latitude 34.308 and longitude -118.449. The elevation of Sylmar is 1,253 feet above mean sea level. Since Sylmar is located within the City of Los Angeles, all of the census and demographic data for residents of Sylmar are included as part of the information reported for City of Los Angeles in the Data tab above.
Whether it’s horseback riding, hang gliding, hiking, skiing, or camping, outdoor adventures abound in Sylmar, California. Located in the San Fernando Valley at the base of the San Gabriel Mountains, this rural community offers rental apartments located just 22 miles northwest of Los Angeles and 23 miles from the coast. The skies above Sylmar are dotted with colorful hang-gliders 300 days of the year. Thirty minutes away from UCLA, the Olive View-UCLA Medical Center is located in Sylmar. Built in 1987, this teaching hospital is one of the main training sites for UCLA residency programs.
Sylmar is located in south California. Sylmar is part of Los Angeles County. On average, the public school district that covers Sylmar is worse than the state average in quality. The Sylmar area code is 818. 
Additional Details. Motel 6 Los Angeles-Sylmar is located near area restaurants. Play golf within 2 miles. Visit the Garden of the Gods, Magic Mountain/Six Flags or California's wineries within 12 miles. Wi-Fi is available in all of our modern guest rooms for a fee. 
The Sayre Fire, also known as the Sylmar Fire, was a November 2008 wildfire that resulted in the loss of 489 residences in Los Angeles, California, United States, the worst loss of homes due to fire in the city's history. 
Sylmar, Calif., is a neighborhood located in Los Angeles County's picturesque San Fernando Valley. People in the market for local homes for rent will appreciate Sylmar's convenient location approximately a half-hour drive from the City of Angels and about an hour northwest of Anaheim.
The Los Angeles County Department of Health Services operates the Pacoima Health Center in Pacoima, serving Sylmar. 1  The United States Postal Service Sylmar Post Office is located at 13700 Foothill Boulevard. Although Sylmar is only 20 miles (32 km) from the Pacific Ocean, the Valley can be considerably hotter than the Los Angeles Basin during the summer months and cooler during the winter months.