Palpitations can be caused by anxiety, arrhythmias, caffeine, certain medications, cocaine and other amphetamines, emotional stress, overeating, panic, somatization, and vigorous exercise. Most palpitations are harmless, but some can be a sign of heart trouble, which could be fatal if left untreated. Palpitations not caused by arrhythmias can be prevented by reducing or eliminating anxiety and emotional stress, and reducing or eliminating consumption of tea, cola, coffee, and chocolate.
Heart Palpitations. A heart palpitation is the sensation that your heart has skipped a beat or added an extra beat. It may feel like your heart is racing, pounding, or fluttering. You may become overly aware of your heartbeat. This sensation is sometimes also felt in the neck, throat, or chest. Heart palpitations can be caused by a variety of factors, including caffeine, exercise, smoking, or stress. Although they can be quite unsettling, most heart palpitations are harmless and resolve on their own without treatment.
Heart palpitations (pal-pih-TAY-shuns) are the feelings of having rapid, fluttering or pounding heart. Heart palpitations can be triggered by stress, exercise, medication or, rarely, a medical condition. Although heart palpitations can be worrisome, they're usually harmless. 
A palpitation describes the sensation that occurs when a patient feels an abnormality in the normal beat of the heart. Abnormalities in the electrical conducting system may cause the heart to beat too quickly, too slowly, or irregularly. The most common symptoms are a feeling of palpitations and a sensation of a racing heart beat. These symptoms are due to a physiologic effect of thyroid hormone on the heart. I thought I'd take a moment to explain more about what impact thyroid hormone can have on the heart and why these symptoms result.
Palpitations can also be a sign of serious heart trouble. Palpitations that are caused by certain types of abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) can be serious, and even fatal if left untreated. Recognizable arrhythmias are present in a small number of patients who have palpitations. Most palpitations are harmless, but some can be a sign of heart trouble, which could be fatal if left untreated. Palpitations not caused by arrhythmias can be prevented by reducing or eliminating anxiety and emotional stress, and reducing or eliminating consumption of tea, cola, coffee, and chocolate.
Palpitation is a perceived abnormality of the heartbeat characterized by awareness of heart muscle contractions in the chest: hard beats, fast beats, irregular beats, and/or pauses. Palpitation is frequently associated with anxiety, and do not necessarily indicate a structural or functional abnormality of the heart, but they can be a symptom arising from an objectively rapid or irregular heartbeat. Palpitation can be intermittent and of variable frequency and duration, or continuous.
In most cases, palpitations are found to be harmless and often go away on their own. In those cases, no treatment is needed. If palpitations are not due to an underlying condition, your doctor may advise you to avoid the things that trigger them. Strategies may include: 1  Reducing anxiety and stress. 2  Common stress-reducing therapies include relaxation exercises, yoga, tai chi, biofeedback, guided imagery, and aromatherapy
Palpitations: Symptoms, types, causes, diagnosis, treatment. Palpitations is the feeling that happens when someone feels an abnormality in the normal beating of the heart. These palpitations can be an isolated extra beat, or they can run together and last for prolonged periods of time.
Heart palpitations are a feeling that your heart is beating too hard or too fast, skipping a beat, or fluttering. You may notice heart palpitations in your chest, throat, or neck. Heart palpitations can be bothersome or frightening. They usually aren't serious or harmful, though, and often go away on their own. In the vast majority of cases, the cause is either related to your heart or is unknown. Non-heart-related causes of palpitations include: 1  Strong emotions such as anxiety, fear, or stress; palpitations often occur during panic attacks.
Causes of Heart Palpitations. Many things can cause heart palpitations. In the vast majority of cases, the cause is either related to your heart or is unknown. Non-heart-related causes of palpitations include: 1  Strong emotions such as anxiety, fear, or stress; palpitations often occur during panic attacks. 2  Vigorous physical activity