Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) is a molecular biological technique for amplifying (creating multiple copies of) DNA without using a living organ ism, such as E. coli or yeast. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a laboratory technique used to amplify DNA sequence s. The method involves using short DNA sequence s called primer s to select the portion of the genome to be amplified. PCR (polymerase chain reaction).
polymerase chain reaction / PCR. Polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, is a laboratory technique used to make multiple copies of a segment of DNA. PCR is very precise and can be used to amplify, or copy, a specific DNA target from a mixture of DNA molecules. Then, to perform PCR, the DNA template that contains the target is added to a tube that contains primers, free nucleotides, and an enzyme called DNA polymerase, and the mixture is placed in a PCR machine. The PCR machine increases and decreases the temperature of the sample in automatic, programmed steps.
Definition of POLYMERASE CHAIN REACTION. : an in vitro technique for rapidly synthesizing large quantities of a given DNA segment that involves separating the DNA into its two complementary strands, using DNA polymerase to synthesize two-stranded DNA from each single strand, and repeating the process —abbreviation PCR. ADVERTISEMENT.
Polymerase chain reaction. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a scientific technique in molecular biology to amplify a single or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several order s of magnitude, ... Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a laboratory technique used to amplify DNA sequence s. The method involves using short DNA sequence s called primer s to select the portion of the genome to be amplified. PCR (polymerase chain reaction).
Freebase (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: Polymerase chain reaction. The polymerase chain reaction is a biochemical technology in molecular biology to amplify a single or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. 
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. In the first step, the two strands of the DNA double helix are physically separated at a high temperature in a process called DNA melting. In the second step, the temperature is lowered and the two DNA strands become templates for DNA polymerase to selectively amplify the target DNA.
Polymerase Chain Reaction. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a process that allows one to make in a short amount of time many copies of a particular deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence. 
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a laboratory technique used to amplify DNA sequences. The method involves using short DNA sequences called primers to select the portion of the genome to be amplified. 