The prothrombin time (PT) — along with its derived measures of prothrombin ratio (PR) and international normalized ratio (INR) — are assays evaluating the extrinsic pathway of coagulation. This test is also called ProTime INR and PT/INR. They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status. PT measures factors I (fibrinogen) , II (prothrombin) , V, VII, and X. Laboratory measurement [edit]. The reference range for prothrombin time depends on the analytical method used, but is usually around 12–13 seconds (results should always be interpreted using the reference range from the laboratory that performed the test), and the INR in absence of anticoagulation therapy is 0.8-1.2.
The PT and INR are used to monitor the effectiveness of the anticoagulant warfarin. This drug affects the function of the coagulation cascade and helps inhibit the formation of blood clots. It is prescribed on a long-term basis to people who have experienced recurrent inappropriate blood clotting. The INR can be used to adjust a person's drug dosage to get the PT into the desired range that is right for the person and his or her condition. Warfarin may be prescribed for conditions such as: 1  Irregular heartbeat (atrial fibrillation). 2  The presence of artificial heart valves.
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a calculation based on results of a PT and is used to monitor individuals who are being treated with the blood-thinning medication (anticoagulant) warfarin (Coumadin®). The INR can be used to adjust a person's drug dosage to get the PT into the desired range that is right for the person and his or her condition. Warfarin may be prescribed for conditions such as: 1  Irregular heartbeat (atrial fibrillation). 2  The presence of artificial heart valves.
International Normalized Ratio (INR), a comparative rating of a patient's prothrombin time (PT) ratio, used as a standard for monitoring the effects of warfarin. The INR indicates what the patient's PT ratio would have been if measured by using the primary World Health Organization International Reference reagent.
International normalized ratio (INR) is a calculation made to standardize prothrombin time. INR is based on the ratio of the patient's prothrombin time and the normal mean prothrombin time. Prothrombin time is a test to learn how fast the blood clots in patients receiving oral anticoagulant medication.
Prothrombin Time and INR. Guide. Prothrombin time (PT) is a blood test that measures how long it takes blood to clot. A prothrombin time test can be used to check for bleeding problems. PT is also used to check whether medicine to prevent blood clots is working. A PT test may also be called an INR test.
The INR provides some information about a person’s blood’s tendency to clot (which is often described as how “thin” or “thick” their blood is). The INR comes from the conversion of another value, the prothrombin time (PT). Prothrombin time is the time it takes for blood to clot in a test tube. A high or low PT can suggest bleeding or clotting tendencies. Most often, the PT is checked to monitor a person’s response to blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin). 
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a standardized number that's figured out in the lab. If you take blood thinners, also called anti-clotting drugs or anticoagulants, it's especially important to check your INR. The INR is figured out using the results of the prothrombin time (PT) test, which measures the time it takes for your blood to clot. The INR is an international standard for the PT
A blood test is needed to determine the effect of warfarin for each person and this is measured as the International Normalised Ratio or INR. The INR is a measure of how long it takes for blood to clot. The INR for a person not taking warfarin is 1. The higher the INR, the longer it takes for blood to clot. The desired INR for you will depend on the reason for which you are taking warfarin. Your doctors will try and keep your INR within a range – called the target INR range. The target INR range is different for different conditions.