Manganese is a chemical element with symbol Mn and atomic number 25. It is not found as a free element in nature; it is often found in combination with iron, and in many minerals. Manganese is a metal with important industrial metal alloy uses, particularly in stainless steels. Manganese(IV) oxide (manganese dioxide, MnO 2) is used as a reagent in organic chemistry for the oxidation of benzylic alcohols (i.e. adjacent to an aromatic ring). Manganese dioxide has been used since antiquity to oxidatively neutralize the greenish tinge in glass caused by trace amounts of iron contamination.
Manganese is a chemical element with the atomic number of 25 and is represented by the symbol Mn. It is the 12th most common element found in the crust of the Earth. Manganese is a metal that can be found in its free form on Earth, often combined with iron, as well as in many minerals. 
Manganese is a trace mineral that is present in tiny amounts in the body. It is found mostly in bones, the liver, kidneys, and pancreas. Manganese helps the body form connective tissue, bones, blood clotting factors, and sex hormones. It also plays a role in fat and carbohydrate metabolism, calcium absorption, and blood sugar regulation. Manganese is also necessary for normal brain and nerve function.
Manganese is a naturally occurring metal that is found in many types of rocks. Pure manganese is silver-colored, but does not occur naturally. It combines with other substances such as oxygen, sulfur, or chlorine. Manganese occurs naturally in most foods and may be added to some foods. Manganese is used principally in steel production to improve hardness, stiffness, and strength. Manganese is a trace element and eating a small amount from food or water is needed to stay healthy. Exposure to excess levels of manganese may occur from breathing air, particularly where manganese is used in manufacturing, and from drinking water and eating food. At high levels, it can cause damage to the brain
The chemical element of manganese turns up in a number of different applications. Here are some basic facts about this element, its uses and examples of how it is a vital component in everything from steel production to the health of the human body. Manganese is designated with a chemical symbol of Mn and has an atomic number of 25. Most commonly, it is found as a trace mineral that is described as a free element. By free element, it is meant that it has metal properties that make it an essential when it comes to working with metal alloys.
MANGANESE Overview Information. Manganese is a mineral that is found in several foods including nuts, legumes, seeds, tea, whole grains, and leafy green vegetables. It is considered an essential nutrient, because the body requires it to function properly. People use manganese as medicine. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Manganese is LIKELY SAFE in pregnant or breast-feeding adult women aged 19 or older when taken by mouth in doses of less than 11 mg per day. However, pregnant and lactating women under age 19 should limit doses to less than 9
When it comes to the human body, manganese is an essential trace mineral that is considered to be both a brain and a nerve food. The mineral is considered to be essential for the formation of healthy red blood cells, proper pituitary gland function, and the maintenance of good eyesight. Manganese is designated with a chemical symbol of Mn and has an atomic number of 25. Most commonly, it is found as a trace mineral that is described as a free element. By free element, it is meant that it has metal properties that make it an essential when it comes to working with metal alloys.
Some of the health benefits of manganese include a benefit to healthy bone structure, bone metabolism, and helping to create essential enzymes for building bones. It also acts as a co-enzyme to assist metabolic activity in the human body. Thyroid Health: Manganese is an important co-factor for many different enzymes, and it is an essential component of thyroxine, arguably the most important hormone in the thyroid gland.