Note: Rates for Standard to and from Canada do not include charges for customs clearance. Rates for Standard to and from Mexico include routine customs clearance. From the U.S. to Mexico, customs clearance by UPS is required. Customs brokerage charges, duties, and taxes will be billed to the importer unless otherwise indicated by the shipper. Some shipments to and from certain locations may require additional time in transit. For guarantee details, service availability, and delivery time commitments visit Calculate Time and Cost.
Typical delivery time for orders that qualify for free shipping is 3 to 10 business days. Orders shipping to APOs, Hawaii, Alaska, Canada, or any US Territory DO NOT qualify for free shipping. We also offer all UPS services including 3 Day, 2 Day and Next Day Air (UPS delivery rates apply). 2 Day – Takes 2 days for delivery and costs much more than Economy. Orders shipped via this method arrive by the end of the second business day after shipping. 2 Day shipping is available to US only and cannot be used for APO or FPO addresses.
This fee-based service is available on shipments moving between all directs points in the continental U.S. or between the U.S. and Canada. UPS Freight LTL. Standard LTL service backed by an on-time guarantee C for shipments rated on the current UPS Freight tariff. Guarantee is available on shipments moving between all directs points in the continental U.S. or between the U.S. and Canada. Schedule a pickup and mark it guaranteed. 
Expedited Shipping Information: The deadline for orders requiring Next Day, 2 Day, or 3 Day delivery is 3:00 PM EST (Eastern Standard Time) for items in stock. Expedited orders placed after 3:00 PM will ship by the end of the next business day for items in stock. 2 Day – Takes 2 days for delivery and costs much more than Economy. Orders shipped via this method arrive by the end of the second business day after shipping. 2 Day shipping is available to US only and cannot be used for APO or FPO addresses.
This will include shipping methods of UPS & FedEx Ground & USPS. 3 Day-Takes 3 days for delivery and costs more than Economy. This option is good if you are on the west coast and need your order within 3 days. 3 Day shipping is available to US only and cannot be used for APO or FPO addresses. 2 Day – Takes 2 days for delivery and costs much more than Economy. Orders shipped via this method arrive by the end of the second business day after shipping. 2
Residence delivery by 7:00pm 3. FedEx Priority: Next day by 10:30am FedEx Standard Overnight is not available in all zip codes. If this impacts you, we will ship and bill you for FedEx 2day, and notify you by email. UPS shipments have three different times for shipment: 1. UPS Ground: Delivery in 3-5 business days 2. FedEx shipments have three different delivery times for shipment:• 1. FedEx 2-Day Standard Air: Delivery in 2 business days • 2. FedEx Standard Overnight: Next business day by 4:30pm (Business).
1 Back to legal disclaimer 2 In most cases, the expected delivery date printed on your receipt or provided at checkout will reflect a delivery time of 1, 2, or 3 business days and is based on origin, destination, and drop-off time. 2  The expected delivery date does not come with a money-back guarantee. Delivering 7 days a week, this is our fastest domestic service for time-sensitive letters, documents, or merchandise. Guaranteed overnight scheduled delivery to most locations 2, including PO Boxes, or your money back 1. From $13.09 online.
Most items may be shipped to the 48 contiguous United States via Standard Ground service. You can expect your order to arrive within 3-5 business days. Business days are Monday-Friday, excluding federal holidays within the United States. Please refer to the estimated shipping times listed on the Shipping Information page for each Shipping Method that we offer. 
UPS Standard service between two EU countries is only for goods in free circulation within the EU. For shipments outside the EU (Switzerland, Norway and others) UPS Standard service includes customs clearance, if necessary. 
1 Back to legal disclaimer 5 In most cases, the expected delivery date printed on your receipt or provided at checkout will reflect a delivery time of 1, 2, or 3 business days and is based on origin, destination, and drop-off time. 2  The expected delivery date does not come with a money-back guarantee. Delivering 7 days a week, this is our fastest domestic service for time-sensitive letters, documents, or merchandise. Guaranteed overnight scheduled delivery to most locations 2, including PO Boxes, or your money back 1. From $13.09 online.