Get help from a doctor now ›. You are normal.: Count your menstrual cycle from first day of bleeding to the next first day of bleeding. During a 30d month, your cycle would be 30 days. Normal range is 21-35 days. Ovulation usually occurs 14 days before the menses begins. 
Dr Laura Cassidy, an obstetrician and gynaecologist, explains what’s normal and what’s not for your monthly period. Periods last around three to seven days. The average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, although it’s normal to have a cycle that's shorter or longer than this. Women's periods can change. It’s normal to have vaginal discharge (secretions), and it’s normal for the discharge to change during the menstrual cycle. “A clear or creamy white discharge is normal, and often makes slightly yellowish stains on underwear,” says Dr Cassidy. Around ovulation, the discharge becomes stretchy, a bit like raw egg white.
Yes, your ovulation date can change from month to month. If your cycle is regular, though, it is not likely. As the other person said, a luteal phase is 10-16 days long. I would start charting your basal body temperature, cervical mucus and use a ovulation predictor kit twice a day for about a week before ovulation. I have REGULAR- 28 day cycle and I want to know, Is it possible to change the Ovulation date month to month when the cycle is 28 days and having REGULAR Periods...? OR is it always happen 14 days before I start my periods..??
To find out what's normal for you, start keeping a record of your menstrual cycle on a calendar or with the help of a smartphone application. Begin by tracking your start date every month for several months in a row to identify the regularity of your periods. 
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. Tracking your menstrual cycles can help you understand what's normal for you, time ovulation and identify important changes — such as a missed period or unpredictable menstrual bleeding. While menstrual cycle irregularities usually aren't serious, sometimes they can signal health problems
Discharge during your period. It’s normal to have vaginal discharge (secretions), and it’s normal for the discharge to change during the menstrual cycle. “A clear or creamy white discharge is normal, and often makes slightly yellowish stains on underwear,” says Dr Cassidy. Around ovulation, the discharge becomes stretchy, a bit like raw egg white.
Not really. The average woman's menstrual cycle is 28 days long, and the average period lasts for three to five days, but there can be huge menstrual cycle variations from woman to woman. Three days is normal for some women, seven days is normal for others, says Franklin Loffer, MD, executive vice president and medical director of AAGL (formerly known as the American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists). Similarly, the normal period flow can be heavier in some women than in others.
The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. However, a normal cycle can be shorter or longer than this. It may be anywhere from 21 to 35 days long. Most periods last 3 to 5 days, but anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. Menstrual cycles may happen around the same date every month or they may be irregular. A menstrual period is considered late if it hasn’t started 5 or more days after the day you expected it to start. A period is considered missed if you have had no menstrual flow for 6 or more weeks after the start of your last period.
Your menstrual cycle might be regular — about the same length every month — or somewhat irregular, and your period might be light or heavy, painful or pain-free, long or short, and still be considered normal. Within a broad range, normal is what's normal for you. Tracking your menstrual cycles can help you understand what's normal for you, time ovulation and identify important changes — such as a missed period or unpredictable menstrual bleeding. While menstrual cycle irregularities usually aren't serious, sometimes they can signal health problems