A nucleotide is made up of a sugar (deoxyribose in DNA and ribose in RNA), a phosphate and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous bases found in DNA are adenine (A), thymine (T …), cytosine (C) and guanine (G). 1 person found this useful. The three components that make up the nucleotides of RNA are the nucleobases, the ribose sugars, and the phosphate backbone. The nucleobases are what give RNA its variability, … denoted by the letters A, C, G and U. They form the alphabet that gets translated into the different amino acids that make up proteins.
A nucleotide is made of a nucleobase (also termed a nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2-deoxyribose) depending on if it is DNA or RNA, and one or, depending on the definition, more than one phosphate groups. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups.
Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomers, or subunits, of nucleic acids like DNA and RNA. The building blocks of nucleic acids, nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group. Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups.
You may be asked to name the three parts of a nucleotide and explain how they are connected or bonded to each other. Here's the answer for both DNA and RNA. Answer: Both deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleotides which consist of three parts: 1  Nitrogenous Base. 2  Purines and pyrimidines are the two categories of nitrogenous bases. 3  Pentose Sugar. 4  In DNA, the sugar is 2'-deoxyribose. 5  Phosphate Group. 6  A single phosphate group is PO 4 3- . 
Each nucleotide consists of: •a 5 - carbon (pentose) sugar (ribose in RNA, deoxyribose in DNA) •a nitrogen-containing base (adenine, thymine, guanine, cytosine and uracil) •a phosphate group In DNA or RNA the phosphate groups link sugar molecules together to make up a polynucleotide. *LiL Breezy* · 6 years ago. 
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides.
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code.
Report Abuse. Nucleotide are of 2 type.DNA(deoxy ribose sugar molecule),RNA(ribose sugar molecule)DNA consists of phosphate molecule,nucleic base(A,T,G,C) and sugar molecule. Devi.R · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Nucleotide are of 2 type.DNA(deoxy ribose sugar molecule),RNA(ribose sugar molecule)DNA consists of phosphate molecule,nucleic base(A,T,G,C) and sugar molecule. Devi.R · 7 years ago
These nucleotides have three parts: 1) a five carbon ribose sugar, 2) a phosphate molecule and 3) one of four nitrogenous bases: adenine, guanine, cytosine or uracil. 