I also bruised a lung and the muscle tissue around the rib cage. I'm looking at a few weeks to recovery. The more severe the injury the longer it will take-up to a few months. I'm on day 3 right now and I have yet to see any reduction in the pain levels without medication. It gets pretty intense. There's not a lot you can do to speed healing either.
Bruised ribs are notorious for their long healing time. Unfortunately, unlike other bones of the body, ribs cannot be placed in a cast, which is why we need to wait for them to heal on their own. Typical healing time for bruised ribs is anywhere between 3 to 6 weeks. However, some may take even longer. The actual healing time required will vary depending on the severity of the bruise and muscle injury. Bruised ribs indicate an injury to the muscles surrounding the ribs rather than the ribs themselves. Bruised ribs heal on their own, and only small measures to promote healing can be undertaken. They take about 3-6 weeks to heal completely.
2. Ice the injured area. Icing your rib will help reduce pain and swelling, so that the bruised tissue can heal more quickly. Stick to ice for the first 72 hours after an injury, and resist the urge to break out a heating pad instead. 1  Find a bag of frozen vegetables (like peas or corn), or fill a resealable plastic bag with chipped ice. 2  Wrap the bag of ice in a towel or T-shirt, and lay it over your bruised rib.
Caring for your injury at home. In most cases, you can take care of broken or bruised ribs at home. While your injury heals, pain relief is very important, as it will hurt every time you breathe in or cough. Taking shallow breaths and not coughing to avoid pain will only put you at risk of a chest infection. Broken (fractured) or bruised ribs are usually caused by a fall or blow to the chest, or occasionally by severe coughing. They can be very painful, but will normally improve within about three to six weeks.
It may take three to four weeks for bruised ribs to heal. However, severe injuries may take a lot longer to heal, extending up to about ten weeks. Consult a doctor if you experience the symptoms mentioned to avoid complication and delayed healing. The immediate treatment of bruised ribs is to take a complete rest and reduce one's activities. Other ways to help heal rib bruises include: 1  Taking pain killers and anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen. 2  Some doctors may prescribe narcotic pain medications.
well it does not take a lot of time to heal well it depends on ur age but i would suggest you kept ice there all day for a few days so it will heal a lot faster not bend for a while and get a lot of rest. Source(s): im a 12 year old female trained by the red cross and yeah. Elizabeth W · 8 years ago. This Site Might Help You. RE: how long does it take for rib bruising to heal? On Thursday I hurt my ribs on my right side by hitting a table pretty hard at the time I didn&#39;t feel anything I thought I was ok. On Friday I woke up hurting kind of bad but I could with stand it
Home treatment will help you manage the pain while you heal. Pain relief can help you feel better and let you take deeper breaths. A fractured rib usually takes at least 6 weeks to heal. To help manage the pain while the fracture heals: 1  Put ice on the injured area. 2  Get extra rest. 3  Take pain medicine such as aspirin or ibuprofen. 4  Your doctor may prescribe a stronger pain medicine if over-the-counter medicines don't work. 
1 Avoid activities that cause rib cage pain, including sports. 2  Take aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or naproxen for pain/inflammation. 3  Use ice applications for 15-20 minutes at a time, 3-4 times a day to relieve pain and to reduce inflammation in the early stages after the injury. Overview. You have 24 ribs (seven sets) that protect your internal organs and help you breathe. A direct blow to the chest can cause ribs to bruise, break, or separate from the breastbone. While bruised ribs are extremely painful, in most cases they heal completely.