Video Transcript. The question's asked, how to keep score or keep a score book in baseball. Well, the first thing you need to do is go by a sporting goods store and purchase a book, much like this one, that helps you to keep score. And basically, the way we do that; the positions, defensively, on the field are numbered. 
Report Abuse. If the score book requires where the ball hit (although most don't), than you draw a line to an approximate from where they hit it. I know this because I used to get paid to take the score for a county baseball team. It's a really fun thing to do. scsmith478 · 8 years ago. Of course you circle 1B, 2B, 3B, or HR. and you draw a line around the bases & color it in when they score. When they get out you put a 1, 2, or 3. with a circle. If it is hit to the shortstop and he makes the throw to first and gets the out you put 6-3 and 1 with a circle. If it is a flyout you put F7 or whatever.
1 They usually draw a line originating from home plate to the spot where the ball is hit, with a solid line for a ball in the air or a dashed line for a ball on the ground. 2  If, during any point after the ball is put in play, a runner scores, then mark down how many RBI's the batsman gets in the space provided. 1 You can keep track of writing the number of pitches thrown that inning by writing it to the left of the inning number. 2  You can keep track of the total pitches thrown by writing it to the right of the inning number.
Understand the basic concepts of the game. Baseball is a team sport played on a special field over the course of several periods of play, called innings. Each inning is further divided into two parts, the “top” and the “bottom,” during which one team tries to score points while the other team defends the field. 1 A baseball that's hit and lands to the left of third base or the right of first base (as seen from home plate) is considered a “foul ball,” which invalidates the play. 2  Foul lines are usually painted on the field to show where the border is.
To vote on existing books from the list, beside each book there is a link vote for this book clicking it will add that book to your votes. To vote on books not in the list or books you couldn't find in the list, you can click on the tab add books to this list and then choose from your books, or simply search. 
The first step in using a baseball score book is listing the players by batting order on the left-hand margin of the page. Find out how to fill out a baseball score book one pitch at a time with help from a professional baseball instructor in this free video on keeping score in baseball. Expert: Mickey Hiter
Where to find them. Many of the books cited here, and others you may decide you need for your research, are out of print. Your local library may be able to find them through inter-library loan. Here is a short list of used book dealers who specialize in baseball books. All are SABR members and all deal through the mail: 1  R.Bobby Plapinger (baseballbooks@opendoor.com). 2  P.O. Box 1062, Ashland, OR 97520. 3  Phone: (541) 488-1220
I have been asked many times to do the scorebook for baseball/softball. I know the basics. Of course you circle 1B, 2B, 3B, or HR. and you draw a line around the bases & color it in when they score. When they get out you put a 1, 2, or 3. with a circle. If it is hit to the shortstop and he makes the throw to first and gets the out you put 6-3 and 1 with a circle. If it is a flyout you put F7 or whatever.
Keeping score can be a great way to stay involved in the game. It is also a useful skill to have if you are on a baseball team, as it allows you to keep better track of stats, trends, and performance of players on your team. 1 You can keep track of writing the number of pitches thrown that inning by writing it to the left of the inning number. 2  You can keep track of the total pitches thrown by writing it to the right of the inning number.