Nyasa (English: placing) is a concept in Hinduism. It involves touching various parts of the body while chanting specific portions of a mantra. This is considered to be invoking presence of the deity, of the mantra, inside the body. Each mantra is associated with a specific Nyasa. There are various types of Nyasas, the most important of them being Kara Nyasa and Anga Nyasa
Maha Nyasam. The Mahanyasam, meaning the great nyasa (purification) is recited to purify the body, mind and soul of all the impurities. Normally it is recited before performing the Rudrabhishekam of Lord Shiva. MahaNyasam1 MP3. MahaNyasam2 MP3
In the form of Veda Dharma is promoted i.e. (Rudra). In the form of Speech, brings out the importance of the meaning of words i.e. (Rudra). In the name of pranava (OM) He makes one to realize him. In the form truth he enters humans. Rudra presented Vedas to Brahma at the Commencement of kalpa. The first prayer in the Vedas addressed to Rudra occurs in the Rig Veda and it is composed by sage Kanva and reads as follows: We sing this praise from our hearts of the great Rudra, who is a pourer for the sake of peace.
The Mahanyasam is a part of the methodology of chanting of the Rudram on special occasions such as a mahArudram. Typically, during a Shri Rudra paaraayaNam at home, one recites the laghunyaasam. Such a Shri Rudra paaraayaNam in a public place of worship such as a temple is preceeded by the recital of the mahAnyaasam. The second part, chapter 18 of the Yajurveda, is known as chamakam because of the repeated use of the words Chame. Rudram is divided into 11 sections called Anuvakas. In the first Anuvaka, Rudra is asked to turn away his Ghora rupa (fierce appearance) and to please keep his and his followers’ weapons at bay.
Matrika Nyasa is a form where the 50 letters of the Sanskrit alphabet are placed on the body. As this is done, the practitioner uses various hand gestures (mudras). The letters are prefixed with Om and suffixed with namah. Sadanga Nyasa uses bijas connected with long vowels of the Sanskrit alphabet. None of this material may be reproduced, apart from purely personal use, without the express permission of the Webmaster Web pages designed by Mike Magee. mike.magee@btinternet.com Original artwork is © Jan Bailey, 1996-2006. Translations are © Mike Magee 1996-2006.
The Sri Rudram occurs in Krishna Yajur Veda in the Taithireeya Samhita in the fourth and seventh chapters. This prayer to Rudra has two parts-the Namakam (verses ending with Nama) and the Chamakam (Verses ending with Cha May) each with eleven sections. It is also known as Satha Rudreeyam or Rudra Prasnam. The first prayer in the Vedas addressed to Rudra occurs in the Rig Veda and it is composed by sage Kanva and reads as follows: We sing this praise from our hearts of the great Rudra, who is a pourer for the sake of peace.
Definition Of Rudram Several meanings are available for Rudram. The most important are Rudh Dukham(One who drives off all sorrows and causes of sorrow) and Dukha Nivavartvam (one gives ananda and mangalam upon removal of sorrow). Rudra represents the fierce form and peaceful form is that of Siva. 
Nyasa -- divinity in the body. The word Nyasa means placing and refers to a large component of tantrik ritualism in which the practitioner touches various parts of the body at the same time pronouncing a mantra and visualising a devata or a bija (root) mantra. Nyasa is supposed to divinise the body of the worshipper. None of this material may be reproduced, apart from purely personal use, without the express permission of the Webmaster Web pages designed by Mike Magee. mike.magee@btinternet.com Original artwork is © Jan Bailey, 1996-2006. Translations are © Mike Magee 1996-2006.