A recreational therapist develops programs by evaluating the needs of a patient, based on medical records, patient input and consultations with physicians. Recreational activities should match a patient’s interests as well as medical needs. Like other types of therapists, recreational therapists monitor the progress a patient makes. The first step to becoming a recreational therapist is earning a bachelor’s degree in therapeutic recreation. The physical movements and mental challenges required in some activities, like games, arts and crafts and dance, can help injured or paralyzed patients practice cognitive abilities, regain motor skills and improve mobility. Recreational activities provide a forum for patients to socialize.
Recreational therapists provide treatment via recreation activities to people with disabilities or illnesses. Using activities that range from arts and crafts, movement, and games to interaction with animals, they help people improve their mental, physical, and emotional well-being. EDUCATION. To get the best jobs in recreational therapy, you'll need at least a bachelor's degree. You'll need a master's degree to work as an art therapist or a dance/movement therapist.
How to become a Recreational therapist. To become a recreational therapist, one should complete an entry level education of Bachelor’s level degree in therapeutic recreation or recreation therapy, which usually lasts for 4 years. 
Learn how to become a recreational therapist. Throughout its long evolution, recreational therapy (its practitioners are known as recreational therapists or therapeutic recreation specialists) has helped people across the globe who have become mentally or physically injured become active again. 
Recreational Therapists Overview. To become a Recreational Therapist, a bachelors degree in therapeutic recreation is the usual educational requirement. Some States regulate recreational therapists through licensure, registration, or regulation of titles, but requirements vary. Nature of the Work for Recreational Therapists. Recreational therapists are also known as therapeutic recreation specialists. They provide treatment services and recreational activities for individuals with disabilities or illnesses with a milieu of techniques.
Recreational therapists use activities such as dance, arts and crafts, sports and exercise, music and drama to help physically or mentally disabled patients improve function, or deal with depression, anxiety and stress. 
Education and Training. A bachelor's degree in recreational therapy or a similar field is the common educational path for a therapist. While pursuing your degree, you will take classes in anatomy, psychiatry and medical terminology. An internship is a common element of an aspiring recreational therapist's education. Recreational therapists plan and direct activities for clients trying to cope with disabilities or recover from injuries. To become a rec therapist, you need a bachelor's degree. A certification in the field is a great benefit in gaining employment as well
Job prospects will be best for recreational therapists with both a bachelor’s degree and certification. Therapists who specialize in working with the elderly or who earn certification in geriatric therapy may have the best job prospects. What Recreational Therapists Do About this section. A recreational therapist may introduce a therapy dog to a patient who needs help managing a disability or illness. Recreational therapists plan, direct, and coordinate recreation-based treatment programs for people with disabilities, injuries, or illnesses.