This section provides links to topics that explain USB host controller drivers, the provided sample drivers, the required registry settings, and a programming reference. Windows CE supports multiple host controllers. A host controller is a hardware component that is contained in a host computer. The host controller driver converts data between the format that is used by the host computer and the format used by the USB host controller. 
Host Controller Interface or Host controller interface may refer to: 1  Host Controller Interface (FireWire) , an interface that enables a FireWire host controller to communicate with a driver. 1 Host Controller Interface (USB) , an interface that enables a USB host controller to communicate with a driver. 2  Host Controller Interface (Bluetooth) in Bluetooth protocols. 3  Host Controller Interface (non-volatile memory) , an interface that enables SATA Express / NVM Express SSDs to communicate with a driver.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. A USB host controller driver controls the way that peripheral devices communicate with a computer's main system. The driver establishes contact between a USB device, such as a keyboard or printer, and ensures that the computer's operating system recognizes it. Ad. With bundling, the USB host controller driver may get the computer to communicate with several devices through one communication port. The reality is that each of these devices appears to be plugged into different ports on the hardware's interface.
1 Host Controller Interface (FireWire) , an interface that enables a FireWire host controller to communicate with a driver. 2  Host Controller Interface (USB) , an interface that enables a USB host controller to communicate with a driver. 3  Host Controller Interface (Bluetooth) in Bluetooth protocols. 1 Host Controller Interface (USB) , an interface that enables a USB host controller to communicate with a driver. 2  Host Controller Interface (Bluetooth) in Bluetooth protocols. 3  Host Controller Interface (non-volatile memory) , an interface that enables SATA Express / NVM Express SSDs to communicate with a driver.
Etron USB3.0 Host Controller is a software program developed by Etron Technology. The most common release is 0.115, with over 98% of all installations currently using this version. The setup package generally installs about 5 files and is usually about 1.11 MB (1,163,450 bytes). 
The host computer contains two layers: a USB host controller hardware layer, and a software layer, which includes USB device drivers for a wide range of USB devices such as keyboards, mice, digital still cameras, scanners, mass storage devices etc. USB Host Controller. A USB Host Controller is the hardware either on the computer motherboard or PCI card. It provides an interface for transferring streams of data between the host computer and the USB devices. The host computer may have one or multiple USB host controllers with different types of interface
Short for Universal Host Controller Interface, UHCI was developed by Intel and is a USB 1.0 and 1.1 host controller that consists of two parts, Host Controller Driver (HCD) and Host Controller (HC). 
In computer hardware, a host controller, host adapter, or host bus adapter (HBA) connects a host system (the computer) to other network and storage devices. A SCSI host adapter connects host system to boot from a SCSI device, but also facilitates configuration of the host adapter.