The sirloin steak is a steak cut from the back of the animal. In a common U.S. butchery, the steak is cut from the rear back portion of the animal, continuing off the short loin from which T-bone, porterhouse, and club steaks are cut. The sirloin is actually divided into several types of steak.
------------------------------------------- A Porterhouse is an over-sized steak coming from the point where the tenderloin and top loin meet. The porterhouse is thicker cut and has much more of the tenderloin relative to the loin portion than the T-Bone steak. If you remove the bone and cut out the two steaks that basically make up a porterhouse, you will get a tenderloin steak and a top loin steak. You need to be hungry to get through a Porterhouse!
Steak is beef, the only difference is that there are different kinds of steaks such as the t-bone, ribeye, porterhouse, new york strip, etc... 
Porterhouse comes from the short loin, which is farther forward on the carcass than the sirloin. (Porterhouse and T-bone are the same basic steak, but T-bone comes from farther back on the carcass so it's smaller.) The biggest difference to the diner is porterhouse is more tender than sirloin. The porterhouse is thicker cut and has much more of the tenderloin relative to the loin portion than the T-Bone steak. If you remove the bone and cut out the two steaks that basically make up a porterhouse, you will get a tenderloin steak and a top loin steak. You need to be hungry to get through a Porterhouse!
T-Bone Versus Porterhouse Steaks. T-Bone steaks and Porterhouse steaks are the same. The Porterhouse is just a larger version of the T-Bone because it is carved from the larger portion of the tenderloin. A Porterhouse is the King of the T-Bones. Diagram Showing Beef Cuts Both are cut from the short loin area of the beef. 
The difference between the two is that Porterhouse steaks are cut from further back on the sirloin and therefore contains a bit more of the tenderloin or fillet than T-Bone steaks and there’s a corresponding price difference. T-Bone and Porterhouse cuts of steaks are prepared in a similar way, involving a vertical cut that encompasses elements of both the fillet and front of the sirloin (what the Americans call the short loin) on either side of a distinctive T shaped bone.
Fun Meat Fact #2: Porterhouse steaks sit along the part of the short loin that sits next to the sirloin, they also contain a large part of the tenderloin. This is the difference between a porterhouse and a t-bone, t-bone steaks do not contain a large part of the tenderloin. The difference between a porterhouse and a new york is that if you were to take the bone out, and separate out the two, you”d have a new york steak and a filet steak. 
Tenderloin. Although both steaks come from the same back muscle, between rib and sirloin, the Porterhouse contains more tenderloin, the most tender part of the loin, than the T-bone. The Porterhouse and T-bone cuts of steak look similar to each other and come from the short loin of a cow, but contain different parts of the loin.
The Porterhouse steak and T-bone steak get often mixed up. Although from almost the same anatomical place of the bovine, the Porterhouse steak consists of the tenderloin muscl … e which is larger than in the T-bone steak, and a further muscle in the top center of the steak. The porterhouse is thicker cut and has much more of the tenderloin relative to the loin portion than the T-Bone steak. If you remove the bone and cut out the two steaks that basically make up a porterhouse, you will get a tenderloin steak and a top loin steak. You need to be hungry to get through a Porterhouse!
T Bone & Porterhouse Steak. T-Bone and Porterhouse cuts of steaks are prepared in a similar way, involving a vertical cut that encompasses elements of both the fillet and front of the sirloin (what the Americans call the short loin) on either side of a distinctive T shaped bone.