Legality of Window Tinting. Each state has its own laws about window tinting. There are regulations about colors of tinting, light transmission, and reflectivity, as well as which windows can be tinted. To decide which type of tint is best for your car, it's essential that you know the law in your area. Tinting your car windows can give your vehicle a customized, sporty look, as well as protect your car's interior from sun damage. To darken the windows of your vehicle, you or a professional installer must apply a tinting film to the glass.
1 RACV does not encourage motorists to have their vehicle's windows tinted. 2  Window tinting can reduce a driver's visibility in certain driving environments and this has the potential to decrease road safety. Window tinting is the plastic film that is often applied to vehicle windows, other than the front windscreen, as an aftermarket product. It is not typically available as a factory-fit option on new cars. It is most commonly offered as an aftermarket product by dealers and independent operators.
Travel to most southern U.S. states and you’ll notice a lot of darkly tinted car windows. Not just the rear windows, the front ones, too. It’s practically a necessity in areas that experience intense sunlight for much of the year. 
As The Critic mentioned the cars windows to have a slight tint to them along with UV protection from the factory. Someplace here on PC someone posted a chart of the amount of tint and UV protection each window has. I just had my car tinted today with Hyper Optik Ceramic 50% on the front windows and 30% on the rear windows. The front windows do not look much darker than the factory glass. Click to expand...
Local Compliance. It is legal to tint your car in most states. New cars have a very slight factory window tint integrated into the glass which does little to block heat or harmful UV rays. Tint World® films are rated so that they are within window tint regulations when applied to the factory tinted glass. Many jurisdictions have legislation that specifies and may limit what legal tint can be applied to the windows of personal use vehicles. The following provides general information and a summary of the window tint regulations in the United States and Canada.
Vehicle: I would like to get all 4 of the side windows and the hatchback tinted on my 08 Prius. I called a local automotive glass place just a few miles from my house and asked how much. They quoted me a price of $185, said they have 3 shades of tinting and that it can be done in about 2-3 hours. 
Here they can. Some officers have their windows tinted and some aren't about to spend money on a car they don't own and some just don't like the tint. It just depends on the department's policies. “We don't disagree, you are wrong. 755. Our K-9 unit vehicles are tinted out. A lot of unmarked vehicles that get used for anti-crime and SNEU are also tinted out. Regular patrol vehicles don't have any tint on the windows.
This is probably why it appears somewhat tinted. The small piece of glass on the rear hatch is tinted to give about 30% light transmittal. I just had my car tinted today with Hyper Optik Ceramic 50% on the front windows and 30% on the rear windows. The front windows do not look much darker than the factory glass. Sent from my MB860 using Tapatalk. I just had my car tinted today with Hyper Optik Ceramic 50% on the front windows and 30% on the rear windows. The front windows do not look much darker than the factory glass. Click to expand...
In a word, no. All windows on vehicles are tinted at the factory to some extent, and no manufacturer is going to make an exception for one buyer. What is probably causing your concern is the darker tint on rear side and back windows that federal regulations allow on trucks, a category that includes SUVs like the Sorento. Federal regulations require that the windshield and front side windows be a lighter tint, so the driver can see out and law enforcement officers can see in, but SUVs, minivans and pickups typically have darker “privacy” glass on other windows.