Whitebait recipes. Whitebait are tiny, immature, silvery members of the herring group that are typically deep-fried to serve. They are widely thought to be baby herring and are usually sold frozen. Preparation. Whitebait require little preparation. Toss them in well-seasoned flour (for devilled whitebait, small quantities of dried English mustard and cayenne pepper can be added to the flour), then shallow-fry in a few centimetres of hot oil until crisp and golden-brown. Drain on kitchen paper and serve with lemon wedges and brown bread and butter
The word whitebait does not refer to a single species. It is a general term used in many countries to describe small freshwater fish that are tender and edible. In New Zealand it describes the juvenile forms (around 4–5 centimetres long) of five species of the fish family Galaxiidae. 
Full Definition of WHITEBAIT. 1. : the young of any of several European herrings and especially of the common herring (Clupea harengus) or of the sprat (Sprattus sprattus). 2. : any of various small fishes likened to the European whitebait and used as food. See whitebait defined for English-language learners. 
Whitebait are the juveniles of five species of galaxiidae, a family of fish confined to the Southern Hemisphere. These species are: 1  inanga (galaxias maculatus). 2  koaro (galaxias brevipinnis). 3  banded kokopu (galaxias fasciatus). 4  giant kokopu (galaxias argenteus). 5  shortjaw kōkopu (galaxias postvectis). 
As whitebait consists of immature fry of many important food species (such as herring, sprat, sardines, mackerel, bass and many others) it is not an ecologically viable foodstuff and in several countries strict controls on harvesting exist. Whitebait are tender and edible, and can be regarded as a delicacy. The entire fish is eaten including head, fins, bones, and guts. Some species make better eating than others, and the particular species that are marketed as whitebait varies in different parts of the world.
Whitebait is the immature fry of fish, in this case sardines and anchovies fished on the Riviera. Whitebait is a collective term for the immature fry of fish, typically between 25 and 50 millimetres long. Such young fish often travel together in schools along the coast, and move into estuaries and sometimes up rivers where they can be easily caught with fine meshed fishing nets. Whitebait are tender and edible, and can be regarded as a delicacy. The entire fish is eaten including head, fins, bones, and guts. Some species make better eating than others, and the particular species that are marketed as whitebait varies in different parts of the world.
Whitebait is a general term applied to young edible fish of many different species. Young herring are typically referred to as whitebait in most parts of Europe, while in New Zealand and Australia, whitebait are usually freshwater fish called galaxiids, or members of the genus Galaxiidae. The practice of catching whitebait is commonly referred to as whitebaiting.. Since the fish are so small, they are usually caught in large groups in nets. Whitebaiting was once a large scale commercial industry, but in modern times it is heavily regulated and only independent fishermen may catch the young fish.
Whitebait. Whitebait is a collective term for the immature fry of fish, typically between 25 and 50 millimetres long. Such young fish often travel together in schools along the coast, and move into estuaries and sometimes up rivers where they can be easily caught with fine meshed fishing nets. 