1 Poke holes all over the lamb chops in a baking dish. 2  Now sprinkle each chop with 1 teaspoons of the Worcestershire sauce and 1 teaspoons of the lemon juice. 3  Top each chop with a teaspoon of butter. 4  Bake for 15-20 minutes for pink meat. 5  Cook longer if you prefer well done meat. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 2  Poke holes all over the lamb chops in a baking dish. 3  Now sprinkle each chop with 1 teaspoons of the Worcestershire sauce and 1 teaspoons of the lemon juice. 4  Top each chop with a teaspoon of butter. 5  Bake for 15-20 minutes for pink
Preparation. Instead of roasting lamb chops in the oven throughout cooking, consider searing the meat on high-heat first. You can use a small amount of oil and a large skillet to sear the lamp chops for about three minutes on each side. The skin of the chops should be browned before removing from the heat. Cover the lamb chops in a roasting dish after browning, and cook in a 400 degree Fahrenheit oven for 10 to 15 minutes depending on how well-done you want the meat. If you want lamb chops medium-rare, the internal temperature on the meat thermometer should register 140 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Instructions. 1  Pre-heat the oven to 400°F (200°C). 2  Place the lamb chops in an oven proof baking dish with the onion chunks around the chops. 3  Season with salt and pepper then place them in the preheated oven to bake - 30-45 minutes depending on how well done you like them. 1 Season with salt and pepper then place them in the preheated oven to bake - 30-45 minutes depending on how well done you like them. 2  Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, melt the butter and cook the onions over a low heat for 5 minutes.
1 Place the lamb chops in an oven proof baking dish with the onion chunks around the chops. 2  Season with salt and pepper then place them in the preheated oven to bake - 30-45 minutes depending on how well done you like them. 1 Season with salt and pepper then place them in the preheated oven to bake - 30-45 minutes depending on how well done you like them. 2  Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, melt the butter and cook the onions over a low heat for 5 minutes.
I like to cook lamb chops quickly, in a frying pan, on high heat. Only seven minutes later, dinner’s ready! There are many different cuts of lamb available. These rib chops are have their own little “handle”, which makes them perfect for picking up and eating with your fingers. Figure on 2-3 chops per person. Start by sprinkling some salt and pepper on both sides of each lamb chop. Preheat your non-stick pan on high heat. To tell if the pan is hot enough, add about 1 Tablespoon of water to the pan. The water should sizzle and evaporate immediately
Firstly place the lamb chops in a shallow roasting tin and pop the chopped onion around them. Season with salt and paper and then place on a high shelf in the oven to bake. I like my lamb a little pink so cooked them for about 30 minutes. If you like yours more well done then increase the cooking time. 
Season the lamb chops. Rub salt, pepper, oregano, thyme, and garlic powder onto both sides of each chop. 1  Blend the seasonings together before rubbing the lamb chops to distribute them evenly. 2  If you prefer a simpler taste, skip the herbs and only season the chops with salt and pepper. Cook the chops for 7 to 8 minutes, turning once. Place the lamb chops in the skillet and flip them over after 3 1/2 to 4 minutes using tongs. Continue cooking for an additional 3 1/2 to 4 minutes, or until done.
If you want your lamb chops rare in the center, you can cook them entirely on the stovetop. If you want them a bit more cooked, and you have double rib chops (2 ribs per piece of meat, each piece of meat about 1/4 of a pound), you will want to finish them in the oven, at 400°F for a few minutes. Consider the lamb chop—delicate, tender, juicy, and easy. Rub with some chopped herbs, garlic, salt and pepper, and olive oil, let sit for a bit, sear all over on high heat, let rest a few minutes, and serve. A lamb chop is such a lovely tender cut of meat, you just don’t have to do much to it.