Type A influenza virus is the most virulent form of influenza and the one that causes the most severe illness. This virus often originates in populations of wild birds, poultry, or swine (including pigs and hogs), so different strains are sometimes referred to as avian (bird) or swine flu.
Influenza is caused by a virus infecting the body. The family of RNA viruses that causes influenza in humans is named Orthomyxoviridae. Flu most often spreads when someone with the flu touches items or people with their unwashed hands. It also is frequently spread through uncovered coughs or sneezes.
Influenza (also known as the flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. The best way to prevent the flu is by getting a flu vaccination each year.
Type C usually causes milder respiratory symptoms. While the flu vaccine can help protect you from types A and B, there is no immunization for type C virus. Type A flu viruses are also found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, whales, horses, and seals. Type B viruses only affect people.
Causes of the flu. The flu is caused by influenza virus types A, B, and C. Both type A and type B flu viruses are responsible for the seasonal outbreaks of flu. Type A flu viruses are found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and horses. Influenza B viruses circulate widely only among humans.
Flu viruses travel through the air in droplets when someone with the infection coughs, sneezes or talks. You can inhale the droplets directly, or you can pick up the germs from an object — such as a telephone or computer keyboard — and then transfer them to your eyes, nose or mouth.
Although initially symptoms of influenza may mimic those of a cold, influenza is more debilitating with symptoms of fatigue, fever, and respiratory congestion. Colds can be caused by over 100 different virus types, but only influenza viruses (and subtypes) A, B, and C cause the flu.
The flu is caused by influenza virus types A, B, and C. Both type A and type B flu viruses are responsible for the seasonal outbreaks of flu. Type A flu viruses are found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and horses. Influenza B viruses circulate widely only among humans.