Baby Names Muslim Baby Names meaning of Aleena. Meaning/Origin of Baby Name - Aleena. Aleena. Report Incorrect Information. The name Aleena is a baby girl name. The baby name Aleena originated as an Muslim name. In Muslim the name Aleena means-silk of heaven.
Meaning of Aleena. Muslim name. In Muslim, the name Aleena means-silk of heaven. Other origins for the name Aleena include-Muslim, Celtic.The name Aleena is most often used as a girl name or female name. Muslim Name Meaning-silk of heaven. Origin-Muslim.
Meaning of Aleena. Aleena is an indirect Quranic name for girls that means soft, pliable, delicate. It is the plural of Layyin. It is derived from the L-Y-N root which is used in a number of places in the Quran. But speak to him a soft and delicate word. Perhaps he will remember, or have some fear.” (Quran 20:44). Could you please advise if Aleena is valid muslim name. Some people says its not from Arabic or Muslim region. may be used in western country but not a valid Muslim name and not found in any dictionary or in history. please advise as we like this name for our baby.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Aleena. Aleena is the Americanized respelling of Alina which is a pet name used by Germans, Slavs, Fins and Italians. In the German, Polish and Italian languages, Alina is pronounced ah-LEE-nah, so American parents eventually gave the name a more phonetic spelling of Aleena. Alina is actually the short form of Adelina which itself is a diminutive of Adela. Adela in turn comes from the Germanic element “adal” meaning “noble”.
Aleena /alee-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek origin, and the name Aleena means sun ray. Aleena is an alternate form of Alina (Greek): Slavic variation of Helen. Alen is a conventional surname. Kreatif forms: Aleeda, Aleenal, Alna. Aleena is an unusual first name for women. Aleena is an equivalently unusual last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Aleena for girls.
Celtic Meaning: The name Aleena is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Aleena is: Fair, good-looking. Feminine of Allen or. American Meaning: The name Aleena is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Aleena is: Fair, good-looking. Feminine of Allen or. 