Hibiscus (/hɨˈbɪskəs/ or /haɪˈbɪskəs/) is a genus of flowering plants in the mallow family, Malvaceae. It is quite large, containing several hundred species that are native to warm-temperate, subtropical and tropical regions throughout the world. The hibiscus is the national flower of Haiti and is used in their national tourism slogan of Haiti: Haïti Experience! It The hibiscus species also represents several other. Nations The hibiscus syriacus is the national flower Of South, korea And hibiscus-rosa sinensis is the national flower Of. malaysia
Wild Hibiscus Flowers in Syrup are all natural and deliciously edible-both the whole hibiscus flowers and the delicate infused cane sugar syrup from the jar. Suitable for cocktails and culinary delights. Also great for mocktails, children's fun drinks and desserts. The world's first Wild Hibiscus Flowers in Syrup. All natural and deliciously edible hibiscus flowers in a cane sugar syrup. Each flower is hand packed into the jar to preserve their quality and shape. All of the natural vibrant color and flavor comes just from the flower. They are cooked in the jar and vacuum sealed which gives them a long shelf life
Hibiscus (Hibiscus spp.) flowers can be edible or toxic to dogs depending on the type of hibiscus. Tropical hibiscus plants such as Chinese hibiscus (Hibiscus rosa-sinensis), which is an evergreen that grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11, is used to make tea. It is also grown in zoos as a reptile food. This particular hibiscus is safe for dogs, as are most tropical hibiscus. 
Posted by Lisa LaGrou August 16, 2014 Family Health, Health, Reviews, Solutions. Hibiscus flower blooms are not only beautiful, Hibiscus flowers are edible, have many health benefits and taste great in tea. 
Cranberry Hibiscus ((a.k.a False roselle, African rosemallow-Hibiscus acetosella) is a striking and colorful plant with red leaves that resemble a maple leaf. It can be grown as a border or hedge plant-its dramatic purple leaves contrasting nicely with plants that have paler green leaves. 
Flower Power. I love the hibiscus flower! It’s edible, delicious and beautiful. Originally from Africa, these bright trumpet-shaped flowers thrive in any sunny, warm climate — there may even be hibiscus blooming in your back yard. Look for dried, edible hibiscus flowers (often called “flor de jamaica” in specialty shops and Mexican food markets). If you want to try fresh hibiscus, do your research to make sure you have an edible variety and check that it was grown without the use of toxic pesticides or herbicides.
Many people have heard of a hibiscus plant and can even identify a hibiscus flower. After all, the plants are quite common in traditional landscapes where they’re beloved for their large, beautiful flowers that bloom throughout the summer. 