Prosecco Wine. Prosecco is a sparkling white wine from north-eastern Italy, specifically the Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia wine regions. It is also the informal name for the grape variety used to make these wines, which is known officially as Glera. Since July 2009, the name 'Prosecco' has been regulated and protected under DOC law, ensuring that wines labeled with the name come only from the specified areas of north-eastern Italy.
Its origin and name can be traced back to the town of Prosecco in Trieste. The grapes are transformed into sparkling wine using the Charmat method in which stainless steel tanks and yeast are utilized to produce a natural second fermentation. Prosecco’s home is in postcard-beautiful NE Italy, in between the fun-filled Adriatic Coast to the East, romantic Venice in the South and the breathtaking Dolomite mountains to the North. Tourists flock to this welcoming area and Italians have summer homes dotting the hills
Prosecco, the sparkling wine from Italy, is at the very top of my list. A light, simple, fruity wine, Prosecco is possessed of charms that I've found to be fleeting at best. And yet Prosecco is one of the most popular wines in this country. 
La Marca Prosecco. La Marca Prosecco is named for the La Marca Trevigiana zone, located in the heart of Italy's Prosecco region, where grapes for our Prosecco are grown. Founded more than 40 years ago, La Marca winery joins tradition and innovation, crafting award-winning Prosecco that captures the essence of the region in every bottle. 
And true to its home, Prosecco is known throughout Italy as “The Welcome Wine.” All are refreshing, with a food-friendly low alcohol content (around 11%). But for hundreds of years the wines from the hills have commanded a premium, prized for their combination of refreshing lightness and yet complexity of flavor. Prosecco’s home is in postcard-beautiful NE Italy, in between the fun-filled Adriatic Coast to the East, romantic Venice in the South and the breathtaking Dolomite mountains to the North. Tourists flock to this welcoming area and Italians have summer homes dotting the hills
The name is derived from that of the Italian village of Prosecco near Trieste, where the grape may have originated. Prosecco DOC is produced from nine provinces spanning the Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia regions. Until the 2008 vintage Prosecco was protected as a DOC within Italy, as Prosecco di Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, Prosecco di Conegliano and Prosecco di Valdobbiadene. From 2009, this has been promoted to DOCG status.
[proˈsekko]) is an Italian white wine. Prosecco DOC can be Spumante sparkling wine, Frizzante (semi-sparkling) and Tranquillo (still) depending on the perlage. It is made from Glera grapes, formerly known also as Prosecco, but other grape varieties may be included. The following varieties are traditionally used with Glera up to a maximum of 15% of the total: Verdiso, Bianchetta Trevigiana, Perera, Glera lunga, Chardonnay, Pinot Bianco, Pinot Grigio and Pinot Nero. Until the 2008 vintage Prosecco was protected as a DOC within Italy, as Prosecco di Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, Prosecco di Conegliano and Prosecco di Valdobbiadene. From 2009, this has been promoted to DOCG status.
Prosecco is a white wine grape variety used to make sparkling wine. It also happens to be a region located in Veneto in northwest Italy. Many call the Prosecco grape “Glera.” Most Prosecco wines are meant to be enjoyed young and fresh, so try to buy the newest vintage. 
The first known mention of the name Prosecco is attributed to the Englishman Fynes Moryson, who, visiting the north of Italy in 1593, notes:  Histria is devided into Forum Julii, and Histria properly so called... Here growes the wine Pucinum, now called Prosecho, much celebrated by Pliny. Until the 2008 vintage Prosecco was protected as a DOC within Italy, as Prosecco di Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, Prosecco di Conegliano and Prosecco di Valdobbiadene. From 2009, this has been promoted to DOCG status.