Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2. [Read: How to Save for Retirement on a Small Salary.]
Rollovers from a traditional 401k to a Roth 401k requires that you pay tax on the ALL of the conversion amount, which breaks the loophole above. It makes sense if you think about it. You always pay tax leaving a traditional 401k/IRA, and you only fund a ROTH 401k/IRA with post-taxed money. There’s no loopholes. If you contribute to a non-deductible IRA, you will be able to convert it to a Roth in 2010, when the income limitation on conversion is lifted. The tax you would incur on the conversion (the tax on the appreciation of the non-deductible IRA) can be spread over two years.
However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties. Age 59½ to 70. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you haven’t met the five-year holding requirement, your earnings will be subject to taxes but not penalties. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had more
With a traditional IRA, withdrawals are subject to ordinary income tax no matter what. So if you're in the 25 percent tax bracket, your $10,000 withdrawal for a down payment is really only $7,500. With a Roth, withdrawals of contributions are always tax-free because you've already paid income taxes on that money. However, if you have a Roth IRA that you've held for at least five years, you may have a little more leeway. That's because you can always withdraw contributions to a Roth tax-and penalty-free. But if you withdraw earnings from your Roth, you're subject to the $10,000 limit.
If you own a Roth IRA, you may be under the impression that withdrawals are always income-tax-free. Not true. Even worse, some withdrawals can be socked with a 10% penalty on top of the income tax bill. Here’s what you need to know if you took some Roth withdrawals last year. 
Penalties on Earnings from Contributions. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution. 
To make qualified distributions from a Roth IRA, you must be at least 59½ and it must be at least five years since you first began contributing. And if you converted a regular IRA to a Roth IRA, you can't take out the money penalty-free until at least five years after the conversion. If you are under 59 ½: If you withdraw any money from a traditional IRA, you'll be slapped with a 10% penalty on the amount you withdraw. That's in addition to the regular income tax you'll owe on your withdrawal. Bad idea. Roth IRAs offer a bit more flexibility