Ancient India Geography. Ancient India Geography There were two distinct civilizations that existed in ancient India, one was the Indus valley civilization that flourished till 2500 BC and the other was the Gangetic valley civilization that began with the coming of the Aryans and its settlement beginning from 1500 BC. The geographical location of Indus Valley Civilization is found from the excavated sites that roughly extends from North West region of India and extends to countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran. It flourished on the Indus river basin in north and extended up to Daimabad in Maharashtra in south.
Geography. Ancient India’s Geography. In Ancient India there were rivers, oceans, and a sea. There is the Indian Ocean; it is the warmest and the third largest ocean in the world. The next body of water is the Arabian Sea. 
Overview. The Indus Valley civilization of ancient India was one of the earliest civilizations in world history. It was located in the north-western region of the Indian subcontinent, and its rise and fall form the first great chapter in the history of ancient India. The Indus Valley is contemporary with the civilizations of Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt. The civilization is famous for its large and well-planned cities
One of the main rivers to be used in ancient times was the Indus river in the north-west (what is now north-western India and Pakistan). It was on the banks of the Indus river that the earliest civilization in India to use writing, build large buildings and organise cities flourished for nearly one thousand years. Geography. The people of ancient India lived in a land of extremes. The terrain was varied and often presented great challenges. Occasional extremes of weather such as droughts and monsoons were also part of life in this land.
Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, between Burma and Pakistan It is located below china and above Sri Lanka   It is located in South Asia.. … .. just below the Himalayas... a country in South Asia that lies entirely on the Indian Plate in the northern portion of the Indo-Australian Plate. 
Ancient India Geography. India and its surrounding countries are so similar in culture and climatic conditions that the region is sometimes called the Indian sub-continent. In ancient times the geography of India was a little different than what it is today. 
by Cristian Violatti. The Indus Valley Civilization was an ancient civilization located in what is Pakistan and northwest India today, on the fertile flood plain of the Indus River and its vicinity. Evidence of religious practices in this area date back approximately to 5500 BCE. 
Ancient India. South Asia is one of the four early places where human civilization began—similar to Egypt (Nile), China (Yellow), and Iraq (Tigris and Euphrates). Civilization in South Asia began along the Indus River. Ancient India is often called the Harappan Civilization because one of the ancient cities was called Harappa. Harappa was just one of 1500 cities in the Indus River Valley. Another well-known city is called Mohenjo-Daro. Historians estimate Ancient India to be the biggest of all four early civilizations