Merino wool is made of the finest grades of wool from the Merino sheep. It is prized for being very soft and comfortable against the skin. Modern technology has made it possible to sort and select only the finest merino fibers. The finest garments and products are made with the highest grades of merino wool. Merino sheep produce wool that is less than 24 microns in diameter. Most wool between 11.5 and 24 microns in fiber diameter are made into clothing.
Wonderful felting fibers and spinning fibers:More thoroughly prepared than typical wool roving, the top preparation is great for spinning. Natural colors of lambswool, alpaca & silk blend, merino & cashmere blend, and camel down & tussah silk blend. Dyed options in merino & silk blend. At 23 microns, these very fine Merino fibers work well for spinning, needle felting, or wet felting. The top preparation is more thoroughly combed than wool roving, making spinning a joy. The wide range of dyed colors will give you endless opportunity for blending.
Topmaking mills make wool top, a semi-processed product from raw wool. The process requires that the wool be scoured (washed) and combed and sorted. The longer fibers resulting from the process are called tops, and are in a form ready for spinning. To be closer to customers, much of the industry has moved from Australia, Europe and the USA to China.
Fine Multicolor Merino Wool Top NEW Colors. We just love this multicolor wool! A joy to spin, these fine merino wool fibers are soft and perfect for treating yourself! Thia multi color merino wool top is perfect for spinning since it will help hide little spinning mistakes and will add interest to your spun yarn.
An extravaganza of felting fiber and spinning fibers in wool roving and wool top preparations. Ten different kinds of wool, from Merino and Shetland to long and wooly Icelandics. A beautiful range of natural sheep colors in many. At 23 microns, these very fine Merino fibers work well for spinning, needle felting, or wet felting. The top preparation is more thoroughly combed than wool roving, making spinning a joy. The wide range of dyed colors will give you endless opportunity for blending.
Lustrous merino wool produces fabric that can be worn next to the skin without discomfort, is soft and always provides an exceptional hand and distinctive style. In the dress-goods and knitting trades, the term 'Merino' implies an article made from the very best soft wool. The finest garments and products are made with the highest grades of merino wool. Merino sheep produce wool that is less than 24 microns in diameter. Most wool between 11.5 and 24 microns in fiber diameter are made into clothing.
Because this is a combed wool top you only get the long fibers of the merino fleece, all the short ones and the noils have been taken out so it will be easier for you to spin an even yarn that will wear great and pill less than a yarn spun from carded wool roving. A joy to spin, these fine merino wool fibers are soft and perfect for treating yourself! Thia multi color merino wool top is perfect for spinning since it will help hide little spinning mistakes and will add interest to your spun yarn.
Merino 101. The merino is one of the world’s most ancient breeds of sheep. And one of the toughest. Very different to a regular sheep who chews grass in the lowlands, our merino live in the extremes of New Zealand’s Southern Alps. Regular sheep would freeze to death up there. But the merino’s fleece is built for extremes – breathable in summer, insulating in winter, yet exceptionally soft and lightweight.
The Merino is an economically influential breed of sheep prized for its wool. The breed is originally from Alentejo, south Portugal, from where it was introduced to Spain; its wool was already highly valued in the Middle Ages. Today, Merinos are still regarded as having some of the finest and softest wool of any sheep. The term merino is widely used in the textile industries, but it cannot be taken to mean the fabric in question is actually 100% merino wool from a Merino strain bred specifically for its wool. The wool of any Merino sheep, whether reared in Spain or elsewhere, is merino wool.
We stock a variety of grades in undyed Merino wool tops and over 50 repeatable shades in dyed Merino wool tops. Quality fibres 66's/22 micron. Merino is a perfect wool for felt making or spinning. For packs of mixed colours please go to the mixed pack category. We try hard to accurately represent our dyed Merino colours on screen but for more exact colour matching we recommend using our sample book.