Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a test that uses a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy to make pictures of organs and structures that are inside the body. During the MRI test (also called an MRI scan), you usually lie on your back on a table that is part of the MRI scanner. Your head, chest, and arms may be held with straps to help you stay still. The table will then slide into the space that contains the magnet.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) - Head. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head uses a powerful magnetic field, radio waves and a computer to produce detailed pictures of the brain and other cranial structures that are clearer and more detailed than other imaging methods. 1 MRI is a noninvasive imaging technique that does not involve exposure to ionizing radiation. 2  MRI can help physicians evaluate the structures of the brain and can also provide functional information (fMRI) in selected cases.
MRI uses a powerful magnetic field, radio frequency pulses and a computer to produce detailed pictures of organs, soft tissues, bone and virtually all other internal body structures. MRI does not use ionizing radiation (x-rays). 1 MRI is a noninvasive imaging technique that does not involve exposure to ionizing radiation. 2  MRI can help physicians evaluate the structures of the brain and can also provide functional information (fMRI) in selected cases.
Introduction. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a type of scan that uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves to produce detailed images of the inside of the body. An MRI scanner is a large tube that contains powerful magnets. You lie inside the tube during the sca
In many cases, MRI gives information that can't be seen on an X-ray, ultrasound, or computed tomography (CT) scan. For an MRI of the head, you lie with your head inside a special machine (scanner) that has a strong magnet. 1 Check the eyes, the nerves from the eyes to the brain (optic nerves), the ears, and the nerves from the ears to the brain (auditory nerves). 2  Look for problems of the pituitary gland. 3  Investigate or follow a finding seen on another test.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head is done to: 1  Look for the cause of headaches. 2  Help diagnose a stroke or blood vessel problems in the head. 3  Problems with blood vessels may include an aneurysm or abnormal twisted blood vessels that are present at birth (this is called an arteriovenous [AV] malformation). 1 Check the eyes, the nerves from the eyes to the brain (optic nerves), the ears, and the nerves from the ears to the brain (auditory nerves). 2  Look for problems of the pituitary gland. 3  Investigate or follow a finding seen on another test.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a diagnostic procedure that uses a combination of a large magnet, radiofrequencies, and a computer to produce detailed images of organs and structures within the body. Unlike X-rays or computed tomography (CT scans), MRI does not use ionizing radiation. 
Video: MRI. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) uses a magnetic field and radio waves to create clear and detailed cross-sectional images of your head and body. You don't need to prepare for an MRI.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive medical test that physicians use to diagnose and treat medical conditions. MRI uses a powerful magnetic field, radio frequency pulses and a computer to produce detailed pictures of organs, soft tissues, bone and virtually all other internal body structures. MRI does not use ionizing radiation (x-rays).