Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). 
Glucose is mainly used by the body for short-term energy. Glucose is taken up by cells and converted to pyruvate in a multistep, multienzyme process called glycolysis. Glucose residues are also linked to serine and threonine amino acids of glycoproteins. Glucose is a six-carbon molecule with multiple hydroxyl groups attached. Its most common form is a ringed pyranose structure, shown in the image.
Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Glucose is one of the primary molecules which serve as energy sources for plants and animals. It is found in the sap of plants, and is found in the human bloodstream where it is referred to as blood sugar. When oxidized in the body in the process called metabolism, glucose produces carbon dioxide, water, and some nitrogen compounds and in the process provides energy which can be used by the cells. The energy yield is about 686 kilocalories (2870 kilojoules) per mole which can be used to do work or help keep the body warm.
Sugar cane is a natural source of sucrose, or table sugar. Sucrose, glucose and fructose are important carbohydrates, commonly referred to as simple sugars. Sugar is found naturally in whole foods and is often added to processed foods to sweeten them and increase flavor. 
Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. When oxidized in the body in the process called metabolism, glucose produces carbon dioxide, water, and some nitrogen compounds and in the process provides energy which can be used by the cells. The energy yield is about 686 kilocalories (2870 kilojoules) per mole which can be used to do work or help keep the body warm.
Features. Glucose is a six-carbon molecule with multiple hydroxyl groups attached. Its most common form is a ringed pyranose structure, shown in the image. It can also be found in a five-ringed furanose form or a linear string of carbons, but these are not favorable struc
Use of glucose as an energy source in cells is by either aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration, or fermentation. All of these processes follow from an earlier metabolic pathway known as glycolysis. The first step of glycolysis is the phosphorylation of glucose by a hexokinase to form glucose 6-phosphate. Glucose is a ubiquitous fuel in biology. It is used as an energy source in most organisms, from bacteria to humans, through
Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fructose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. When oxidized in the body in the process called metabolism, glucose produces carbon dioxide, water, and some nitrogen compounds and in the process provides energy which can be used by the cells. The energy yield is about 686 kilocalories (2870 kilojoules) per mole which can be used to do work or help keep the body warm.
Glucose is a simple form of sugar that serves as fuel for the body. It is produced when carbohydrate is broken down in the digestive system. It can also be made from protein or fat in the liver and kidney. Glucose is carried by the blood to cells. The amount of glucose in the blood is known as the blood glucose level. Glucose is a simple sugar that is the basic fuel for the body. The job of the digestive system is to convert all that you eat into glucose so that cells can use it for energy. From Twinkies to T-bones, all that you eat becomes glucose to feed your hungry cells.