Vijay Kumar:Before indulgence on the subject where will the soul go after death Hinduism... we need to understand the following precepts of Hinduism in clarity! 1. Meaning of atman Hinduism 2. Understanding the concept of reincarnation is of utmost importance if we desire understanding the details behind journey of the soul after death as in Hinduism! The spiritual path is best traveled step-by-step...
LIFE AFTER DEATH-hinduism. There is one thing that is certain in this lifetime: eventually we all must die. A belief in the cyclical reincarnation of the soul is one of the foundations of the Hindu religion. According to Hinduism, all souls will ultimately attain Self-knowledge. The concept of karma or law of karma is the broader principle that all of life is governed by a system of cause and effect, action and reaction, in which one's deeds have corresponding effects on the future.
Everybody has to leave his body when he is died. Death is a Universal truth. I have heard the soul go to hell or heaven after death. Somebody says that the soul take birth again in other species. There are eighty four lakhs or species according to Hinduism. And it is said after spending 84 lakhs birth we get birth in human species. Here I want to know Where the soul go after death. Author: Naresh Kumar Behera 16 Dec 2011 Member Level: Gold Points: 2 Voting Score: 0As per the Hindu Mythology and Shastras, when a soul(Aatma) gets out from a body, it stays with their belongings (transparently) for 12 days.
Ramakrishna-Vivekananda Center. New York. Death, according to Hinduism, is a series of changes through which an individual passes. The Brihadaranyaka Upanishad describes thus the passing of a soul: When the soul departs from the body, the life-breath follows: when the life-breath departs, all the organs follow. For these souls there is no going to any realm. Upon their death, their souls become absorbed in Brahman, and the elements of their body-mind complex return to their original source. From the point of view of Hinduism, dying may be compared to falling asleep and after-death experiences to dreams.
Most of the Hindus believe in the cycle of birth, death and rebirth, which is called 'Samsara'.'Samsara' or the doctrine of rebirth is also known as the theory of reincarnation or of transmigration of the soul. This doctrine is considered to be a basic tenet of Hinduism. According to Hinduism, all souls will ultimately attain Self-knowledge. The concept of karma or law of karma is the broader principle that all of life is governed by a system of cause and effect, action and reaction, in which one's deeds have corresponding effects on the future.
According to Brahmajnana, the supreme Hindu knowledge, death is the very end of our life and there is nothing beyond it. Ordinary Hindus believe that after their death their soul enters another body, resulting in reincarnation. 
According to Hindu spirituality, there is neither death nor Birth. In the Bhagavad Geeta, Lord Shri Krishna declares that for the Soul there is neither Birth nor death....it is without beginning and without death. After death only the body perishes and the soul takes rebirth in another body to live another lifetime. Science can provide the Proof of LIFE but there is no proof for Death...or for life after death...or for Reincarnations. Source(s): Life2Death2Life2..............
It is not within the capability of human body to manifest a soul atman! Where will be the soul after death... concept of heaven and hell (swarga and naraka in Hinduism) is best understood following jnana wisdom contained in Bhagavad Gita. Heaven and hell are not places where human beings could go bodily after death of mortal frame! Heaven (swarga in Hinduism) existed in core of sun where temperatures exceed millions of degrees centigrade! It is in such high temperatures... our soul atman felt comfortable!
Sanātana Dharma (सनातन धर्म), sometimes named Hinduism does not actually orientate around after death, there are sects that believe in it though, the goals of life are: Classical Hindu thought accepts two main life-long dharmas: Grihastha Dharma and Sannyasin Dharma. After death only the body perishes and the soul takes rebirth in another body to live another lifetime. Science can provide the Proof of LIFE but there is no proof for Death...or for life after death...or for Reincarnations. Source(s): Life2Death2Life2..............
Query: Where will the Soul go After Death... death Heaven Hell! Vijay Kumar:The query where will the soul go after death is not new to Hinduism! As per sacred Bhagavad Gita of Hinduism after death of mortal body our atman soul immediately manifested a new body provided matching parents were available on mother earth! In absence of availability of matching parents... Heaven and hell are not places where human beings could go bodily after death of mortal frame! Heaven (swarga in Hinduism) existed in core of sun where temperatures exceed millions of degrees centigrade! It is in such high temperatures... our soul atman felt comfortable!