Nuts (5 to 7 grams per cup serving): Peanuts, almonds, cashews and other nuts are all fantastic sources of meat-free protein. Because they re rich in healthy fats and omega-3s, nuts are great for suppressing hunger. 
Plant-based proteins Even if they do not contain complete protein (except for soy and quinoa) plants bring a lot of proteins to the table. Here are some examples: Most Popular Plant Based Protein Sources (in grams). All you have to do is combine different kinds of plants foods in order to achieve complete protein. I was (and I am still) convinced that there’s nothing like meat to get your protein intake, but I’m also more conscious that eating too much meat (even if organic lean meat) is not ideal for your health. That's why I I decided to resort to other plant sources of protein.
Eggs, Cheese, and Milk. Eggs, cheese and milk are all protein-rich. In fact, like meat, they offer all of the essential amino acids necessary for human health, thus are complete protein foods. One whole egg, 1 cup of milk (skim, 2 percent, or whole), and 1 ounce of most varieties of cheese provide 8 grams of protein. Some nuts are an excellent source of protein. Almonds are particularly protein-rich, providing 6 grams per ounce. Other nuts that provide between 5 and 6 grams of protein per ounce include Brazil nuts, cashew nuts, hazelnuts and walnuts.
Apart from some exceptions, vegetable sources of protein are more often lower in one or more essential amino acids than animal sources. Which foods are complete protein With few marginal exceptions, proteins derived from animal foods (meats, fish, eggs and dairy products) are complete. On the other side proteins derived from plant foods (legumes, grains, and vegetables) tend to be limited in essential amino acids. I was (and I am still) convinced that there’s nothing like meat to get your protein intake, but I’m also more conscious that eating too much meat (even if organic lean meat) is not ideal for your health. That's why I I decided to resort to other plant sources of protein.
Complete protein First off we should remind ourselves what a complete protein is. As per wikipedia definition: a complete protein (or whole protein) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals. I was (and I am still) convinced that there’s nothing like meat to get your protein intake, but I’m also more conscious that eating too much meat (even if organic lean meat) is not ideal for your health. That's why I I decided to resort to other plant sources of protein.
Protein is found in nearly all foods, including meats, poultry, fish, dairy products, starches and grains, vegetables, soy foods, nuts, beans, and some whole grains. Meats, eggs, dairy products and soy are complete protein foods (contain all essential amino acids). Proteins in plant foods (except soy) is incomplete (contain some essential amino acids). There are many foods, other than meat, that are high in protein. Some nuts are an excellent source of protein. Almonds are particularly protein-rich, providing 6 grams per ounce. Other nuts that provide between 5 and 6 grams of protein per ounce include Brazil nuts, cashew nuts, hazelnuts and walnuts.
2. Fish. Fish is an excellent source of protein. Like meat, the amount of protein in any serving of fish depends not only on the part of the fish that you're eating, but also on the type of fish. It provides a wide mixture of other health benefits and nutrients as well, making it an excellent addition to any diet. 3.
Protein is essential to existence. Hair, skin and muscle are primarily derived from protein. In fact, a protein deficiency can lead to fatigue, muscle weakness, hair loss and a variety of other maladies. (To find your optimal daily dose of protein, nutritionists suggest multiplying your body weight in pounds by .4 .). Nuts. The easiest (and possibly tastiest) answer is nuts. All varieties of nuts: almonds, peanuts, cashews, pecans, hazelnuts – you name it. And for those of you who like it smooth, peanut butter is an excellent source of protein with 4 grams per tablespoon.
4. Nuts. The best part about adding nuts to your diet as a healthy protein source is the amount of variety you have. Almonds, pistachios, walnuts, peanuts, and cashews are packed with all three macronutrients on top of essential micronutrients such as vitamin E, vitamin B6, magnesium, phosphorus, zinc, and potassium. Now, if you think the only way you can up your protein intake is by eating more steak and chicken, there are more protein sources in your diet other than meat.