The complete blood count, or CBC, lists a number of many important values. Typically, it includes the following: 1  White blood cell count (WBC or leukocyte count). 2  WBC differential count. 3  Red blood cell count (RBC or erythrocyte count). 4  Hematocrit (Hct). 5  Hemoglobin (Hbg). 6  Mean corpuscular volume (MCV). 
A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. Definition. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. 2  White blood cells, which fight infection.
1 White blood cell (WBC) count is a count of the total number of white blood cells in a person's sample of blood. 2  White blood cell differential may or may not be included as part of the panel of tests. 3  It identifies and counts the number of the various types of white blood cells present. The complete blood count (CBC) is often used as a broad screening test to determine an individual's general health status. It can be used to: 1  Screen for a wide range of conditions and diseases. 2  Help diagnose various conditions, such as anemia, infection, inflammation, bleeding disorder or leukemia, to name just a few.
A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. A CBC also helps him or her diagnose conditions, such as anemia, infection, and many other disorders. A CBC test usually includes: 1  White blood cell (WBC, leukocyte) count. 2  White blood cells protect the body against infection. 3  If an infection develops, white blood cells attack and destroy the bacteria, virus, or other organism causing it. 4  White blood cells are bigger than red blood cells but fewer in number. 1 The value is given as a percentage of red blood cells in a volume of blood. 2  For example, a hematocrit of 38 means that 38% of the blood's volume is made of red blood cells. 3  Hematocrit and hemoglobin values are the two major tests that show if anemia or polycythemia is present. 4  Hemoglobin (Hgb).
Complete Blood Count (CBC) Overview. The complete blood count (CBC) is one of the most commonly ordered blood tests. To understand this test, it is important to know that blood consists of two major parts: plasma and cellular elements. The plasma is the part of the blood that is liquid which allows the blood to flow easily. 
Tweet. A hematology lab test for CBC or a Complete Blood Count test could be done for a variety of reasons. A high white blood count could be an indication of infection, and it also shows an increase in some types of leukemia. On the other hand low white blood counts could indicate bone marrow diseases or enlargement of the spleen. In some cases of HIV infection too, there may be a low white blood count.
The complete blood count (CBC) is a test that evaluates the cells that circulate in blood. Blood consists of three types of cells suspended in fluid called plasma: white blood cells (WBCs), red blood cells (RBCs), and platelets (PLTs). 
The complete blood count (CBC) is one of the most commonly ordered blood tests. The complete blood count is the calculation of the cellular (formed elements) of blood. These calculations are generally determined by special machines that analyze the different components of blood in less than a minute. 