Needless to say, the amount of information Acxiom has at its fingertips has alarmed privacy advocates. To assuage those concerns, on Sept. 4, Acxiom opened up a website portal called AboutTheData that allows individuals to look at some of the records the company stores about them. Acxiom says that AboutTheData is still in beta, meaning only a limited selection of the information Acxiom has on you is available for view. However, the company said it will make more of each individual's data available at a later date. 
Important Considerations: Opting out, or choosing to have data about you removed from Acxiom's marketing data products, will reduce the amount of unsolicited telemarketing, direct-mail and/or email offers you receive from companies with whom you have not done business. Opt-Out Choices: I wish to opt-out from Acxiom's products that support marketing solicitations, special offers and product information from each of the media I have checked below. (Choose one or more options below.*).
Acxiom collects, analyzes, and parses customer and business information for clients, helping them to target advertising campaigns, score leads, and more. On October 9, 2008, Acxiom announced it had entered into a contract with XSellNet [1] to deliver and manage the distribution of real-time customer data and analytics to the retail auto dealer industry throughout the United States. The collaboration is co-branded as X12 powered by Acxiom.
Acxiom is a $1.15 billion-a-year company, representing more than 12 percent of the direct-marketing-services sector’s $11 billion in estimated annual sales. On October 9, 2008, Acxiom announced it had entered into a contract with XSellNet [1] to deliver and manage the distribution of real-time customer data and analytics to the retail auto dealer industry throughout the United States. The collaboration is co-branded as X12 powered by Acxiom.
Acxiom’s data and technology have transformed marketing – giving our clients the power to successfully manage audiences, personalize customer experiences and create profitable customer relationships. Learn More. 
Acxiom Corporation is a marketing technology and services company with offices in the United States, Europe, Asia, and South America. Acxiom offers marketing and information management services, including multichannel marketing, addressable advertising, and database management. On October 9, 2008, Acxiom announced it had entered into a contract with XSellNet [1] to deliver and manage the distribution of real-time customer data and analytics to the retail auto dealer industry throughout the United States. The collaboration is co-branded as X12 powered by Acxiom.
Acxiom Mainframe Services is a package of IT asset management solution for businesses of all sizes. It offers such capabilities as talent management, cost management, remote management, and others. The software was developed and launched by Acxiom Corporation headquartered in Arkansas, United States. 