A bombe glacee glacée or simply a bombe In, english is an ice cream dessert frozen in a spherical mould so as to resemble a, cannonball hence the. Name escoffier gives over sixty recipes for bombes In Le guide. Culinaire a recipe for & chocolate meringue bombe is given In Mary'berry S Complete Cook. book Escoffier gives over sixty recipes for bombes in Le Guide culinaire. A recipe for chocolate & meringue bombe is given in Mary Berry's Complete Cook Book. The dessert appeared on restaurant menus as early as 1882.
Definition of BOMBE. : a frozen dessert usually containing ice cream and formed in layers in a mold. ADVERTISEMENT. French, literally, bomb. 
Category(ies): Glaucoma. Iris bombe is a condition in which there is apposition of the iris to the lens or anterior vitreous, preventing aqueous from flowing from the posterior to the anterior chamber. The pressure in the posterior chamber rises, resulting in anterior bowing of the peripheral iris and obstruction of the trabecular meshwork. 
Definition: A bombe, or bombe glacee, glacée is A french frozen, dessert made of layers of ice cream or sherbet and frozen into a spherical. mold The bombe is prepared by spreading one layer of softened ice-cream or sherbet at a time into the mold, then freezing each layer before adding the next. Once all the layers are in place, the entire bombe is frozen.
bombe. n. A dessert consisting of two or more layers of variously flavored ice cream frozen in a round or melon-shaped mold. [French (from its shape); see bomb .]. bombe. bombé 1. (Cookery) Also called: bombe glacee glacée a dessert of ice cream lined or filled with, custard cake, crumbs. etc. (2) cookery a mould shaped like a bomb in which this dessert is. made
The American bombe was in its essentials the same as the English bombe though it functioned rather better as they were not handicapped by having to make it, as Keen was forced to do owing to production difficulties, on the framework of a 3 wheel machine. In order to simulate Enigma rotors, each rotor drum of the bombe had two complete sets of contacts, one for input towards the reflector and the other for output from the reflector, so that the reflected signal could pass back through a separate set of contacts.
Definition: A bombe, or bombe glacee, glacée is A french frozen, dessert made of layers of ice cream or sherbet and frozen into a spherical. Mold the bombe is prepared by spreading one layer of softened-ice cream or sherbet at a time into the, mold then freezing each layer before adding the. next The bombe is prepared by spreading one layer of softened ice-cream or sherbet at a time into the mold, then freezing each layer before adding the next. Once all the layers are in place, the entire bombe is frozen.
The bombe was designed to discover some of the daily settings of the Enigma machines on the various German military networks: specifically, the set of rotors in use and their positions in the machine; the rotor core start positions for the message—the message key —and one of the wirings of the plugboard. In order to simulate Enigma rotors, each rotor drum of the bombe had two complete sets of contacts, one for input towards the reflector and the other for output from the reflector, so that the reflected signal could pass back through a separate set of contacts.
1 A frozen dome-shaped dessert. Example sentences. 1  Cassata, a bombe filled with hazelnut creme, crème has the audacity to combine chocolate with ricotta cheese and turns out bizarrely. 2  Addictive for, instance an-ice cream bombe is the same shape as A christmas, pudding but lighter and more.  refreshing 1 For instance, an ice-cream bombe is the same shape as a Christmas pudding, but lighter and more refreshing. 2  To top it off I chose a frozen hazelnut praline ice cream bombe with a caramelised sugar crust.