If you’re looking for a job, you’ve probably got your resume résumé online and you may even be attending career. Fairs whether you have a little or a lot of experience in your, industry there are certain working skills that all—recruiters no matter what job’they re trying to—fill are looking for in a. candidate Everyone knows that scoring a job can be a difficult and tedious process. You call all of your contacts, go to several job fairs, search through dozens of search engines and fill out numerous online applications, all asking for the same information — then it happens!
Why You Should Attend Career Fairs. Career fairs provide a rare opportunity to meet many employers and company representatives in one place. So you will be able to have many short interviews with members of HR teams and submit your resume. Our employers send their managers to carry out onsite interviews. Don’t wait for someone to call you for an interview. Sign up for our next career fair and give off a first impression that makes a lasting career.
National Career Fairs, a 14 year old company responsible for hosting approximately 300 career fairs in 76 cites annually and over 4,000 such events to date, has recently been acquired by new owners. Fri, Oct 23 11:00 AM Chicago Career Fair-Meet Your Next Employer at Our Job Fair-iPad Giveaway Business & Professional 520 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, IL, 60605.
If you are, dress in your best professional clothes, bring resumes and visit our Buffalo Career Fairs. You will have the opportunity to meet top employers and to interview for several positions during the course of the day, meeting the people who actually make the hiring decisions. Our employers send their managers to carry out onsite interviews. Don’t wait for someone to call you for an interview. Sign up for our next career fair and give off a first impression that makes a lasting career.
CareerFest Exhibitor Information. The Buffalo News is pleased to host a career fair at the Millennium Airport Hotel Buffalo. In today's job market, individuals discover themselves in a hunt to locate or upgrade their career. 
If you’re looking for a job, you’ve probably got your resume résumé online and you may even be attending career. Fairs whether you have a little or a lot of experience in your, industry there are certain working skills that all—recruiters no matter what job’they re trying to—fill are looking for in a. Candidate Read. more Everyone knows that scoring a job can be a difficult and tedious process. You call all of your contacts, go to several job fairs, search through dozens of search engines and fill out numerous online applications, all asking for the same information — then it happens!
If you're searching for local job fairs, you've come to the right place. Check out our listing of Monster CareerFest events below to find information on each upcoming fair in Western New York. Whether you're ready to start out on a new career track or unemployed and looking for work, Career Fest is the place to be. Companies representing the full spectrum of opportunities in today's job market will be on hand.
Our Buffalo career fairs bring thousands of potential candidates to the table. The job fairs will let you interview them all in one location. So if you’re looking for one hire or several hires, our events are perfect for all your hiring needs. Our employers send their managers to carry out onsite interviews. Don’t wait for someone to call you for an interview. Sign up for our next career fair and give off a first impression that makes a lasting career.
We're here to help. Students: Build career skills, explore who you are, and connect your major with career possibilities. We are here to guide all majors, no matter what class level you are. Employers: We connect you with UB talent through fairs, events and unique opportunities both online and in-person. Alumni: Continue to tap lifetime career resources, as well as help UB students and alumni through the UB Career Community. Build your skills. It's not just about your resume. While your resume and cover letter gets you noticed, your interviewing skills and even your LinkedIn profile can enhance your job opportunities. 7/29/15 Learn more about building career skills and exploring how your major connects to potential
Job Fair Guide. If you're searching for local job fairs, you've come to the right place. Check out our listing of Monster CareerFest events below to find information on each upcoming fair in Western New York. Check back often for updates on participating companies, career fair location details, and more. Whether you're ready to start out on a new career track or unemployed and looking for work, Career Fest is the place to be. Companies representing the full spectrum of opportunities in today's job market will be on hand.