These jars were used by the Ancient Egyptians from the time of the Old Kingdom up until the time of the Late Period or the Ptolemaic Period, by which time the viscera were simply wrapped and placed with the body. The viscera were not kept in a single canopic jar: each jar was reserved for specific organs. The canopic jars were four in number, each for the safekeeping of particular human organs: the stomach, intestines, lungs, and liver, all of which, it was believed, would be needed in the afterlife. There was no jar for the heart: the Egyptians believed it to be the seat of the soul, and so it was left inside the body.
Canopic Jars. Canopic Jars were used by the ancient Egyptian during the rituals of mummification processes. These were used as containers in which to hold the internal organs of the deceased that was going to be mummified. The ancient Egyptians before mummifying their pharaohs and dead took out the internal soft organs. But they still placed dummy canopic jars into the tomb. Dummy canopic jars: these are canopic jars that were not hollowed out, so never used for the entrails. Common in the Third Intermediate and Late Period, when improved techniques allowed the embalmer to leave the entrails in the body.
Canopic jars were used from the Old Kingdom up to the Ptolemaic Period. The first known use of canopic jars was during the burial of Hetepheres I, a queen from the fourth dynasty. During the time of the Old Kingdom, canopic jars were simple in design and had plain lids. Going through the mummification process and the use of canopic jars to protect the organs, demonstrates that the Egyptians believed the deceased were a continuation of their mortality. They believed that the preservation of these vital organs would help the deceased during the afterlife.
I think the Ancient Egyptians used canopic jars to store the mummy's organs such as the heart, liver, and other intestines The Ancient Egyptian's actually used certain canop … ic jars to watch over certain organs. They watched over the lungs, liver, stomach, and the intestines. 
Canopic Jars. Canopic jars were special vessels that were used in Ancient Egypt during the mummification process. The jars were used to preserve the organs of mummies and prepare them for the afterlife. These jars were often made of pottery or carved from limestone. Going through the mummification process and the use of canopic jars to protect the organs, demonstrates that the Egyptians believed the deceased were a continuation of their mortality. They believed that the preservation of these vital organs would help the deceased during the afterlife.
Canopic Jars were used by the ancient Egyptian during the rituals of mummification processes. These were used as containers in which to hold the internal organs of the deceased that was going to be mummified. The ancient Egyptians before mummifying their pharaohs and dead took out the internal soft organs. 
A method of artificial preservation, called mummification was developed by the ancient Egyptians. During the process of mummification, all of the major organs were removed and placed in canopic jars. 
On display at the British Museum. Canopic jars were used by the Ancient Egyptians during the mummification process to store and preserve the viscera of their owner for the afterlife. They were commonly either carved from limestone or were made of pottery. The canopic jars were four in number, each for the safekeeping of particular human organs: the stomach, intestines, lungs, and liver, all of which, it was believed, would be needed in the afterlife. There was no jar for the heart: the Egyptians believed it to be the seat of the soul, and so it was left inside the body.