The Emancipation Proclamation was a presidential proclamation and executive order issued by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863. In a single stroke, it changed the federal legal status of more than 3 million enslaved persons in the designated areas of the South from slave to free.. On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation warning that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state that did not end its rebellion against the Union by
Although the Emancipation Proclamation did not end slavery in America--this was achieved by the passage of the 13TH Amendment to the Constitution on Dec. 18, 1865--it did make that accomplishment a basic war goal and a virtual certainty. 
The Emancipation Proclamation is arguably one of the top ten most important documents in the history of the United States; however, it is also one of the most misunderstood. Here are ten facts providing the basics on the proclamation and the history surrounding it. Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation on September 22nd, 1862. It stipulated that if the Southern states did not cease their rebellion by January 1st, 1863, then Proclamation would go into effect.
The importance of the Emancipation Proclamation was such that a lot of people consider it the most critical that President Abraham Lincoln made. First issued in 1862, it marked the beginning of the end of slavery in United States. Effect on the Civil War. The importance of the Emancipation Proclamation is that it altered the cause and reasons for the Civil War. At the onset, it was about the Union’s attempt to bring the Confederates back into the fold.
When the Confederacy did not yield, Lincoln issued the final Emancipation Proclamation on January 1st, 1863. Fact #2: The Emancipation Proclamation only applied to the states in rebellion. President Lincoln justified the Emancipation Proclamation as a war measure intended to cripple the Confederacy. Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation on September 22nd, 1862. It stipulated that if the Southern states did not cease their rebellion by January 1st, 1863, then Proclamation would go into effect.
Posted on. (Answer #1). The major significance of the Emancipation Proclamation is that it made it clear that the Civil War was about slavery and the abolition of slavery. That had not been clear before. This helped improve the image of the North in the eyes of foreign audiences, especially those in Britai
The Emancipation Proclamation was a document signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863 freeing the slaves then held in the states in rebellion to the United States. 
Fact #1: Lincoln actually issued the Emancipation Proclamation twice. Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation on September 22nd, 1862. It stipulated that if the Southern states did not cease their rebellion by January 1st, 1863, then Proclamation would go into effect.
Best Answer: The Emancipation Proclamation was a military measure proclaimed by Lincoln acting as commander in chief of the armed forces. It freed the slaves in those parts of the south which continued the war as of Jan 1, 1863. 
Read the transcript of the Emancipation Proclamation. See emancipation proclamation text. Emancipation Proclamation summary: The Emancipation Proclamation was issued by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, as the country entered the third year of the Civil War. On September 22, 1862, Lincoln signed the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation, which informed both the Confederacy and the Union of his intention to free all persons held as slaves in the rebellious states.