An enrolled agent (or EA) is a federally authorized tax practitioner empowered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). To qualify for renewal as an enrolled agent, an individual must complete 72 hours of continuing professional education (CPE) every three years, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct in each of the three years.
An enrolled agent is a person who has earned the privilege of representing taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service by either passing a three-part comprehensive IRS test covering individual and business tax returns, or through experience as a former IRS employee. Enrolled agent status is the highest credential the IRS awards. Individuals who obtain this elite status must adhere to ethical standards and complete 72 hours of continuing education courses every three years.
In addition to the stringent testing and application process, the IRS requires enrolled agents to complete 72 hours of continuing education, reported every three years, to maintain their enrolled agent status. The easiest and fastest way to locate an enrolled agent in your area is to visit www.naea.org. The  Find an EA  function located at the top of the home page will allow you to search instantly by locality or specialty.
There are two ways to become an enrolled agent: 1) work for the IRS for five years in a position requiring the interpretation of the tax code; or 2) pass all three parts of the Special Enrollment Exam (SEE) and pass a background check. To be eligible for renewal for the enrollment cycle, an enrolled agent must complete 72 continuing education (CE) credit hours for the three year cycle, with a minimum of 16 CE per year.
An Enrolled Agent is the ONLY federally-licensed tax professional who has demonstrated special competence in tax preparation and also has UNLIMITED practice rights to represent any taxpayer regarding any tax matter before any IRS office. Enrolled agents are authorized by the IRS to represent taxpayers before the IRS. The advantage of working with an enrolled agent lies not only in the depth of experience and understanding of how to prepare a tax return, but the knowledge of tax law that may be used
An IRS Enrolled Agent (EA) is a federally-authorized tax practitioner who has technical expertise in the field of taxation and who is empowered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to represent taxpayers before all administrative levels of the Internal Revenue Service for audits, collections, and appeals. Enrolled agent status is the highest credential the IRS awards. Individuals who obtain this elite status must adhere to ethical standards and complete 72 hours of continuing education courses every three years.
Enrolled Agents are America’s Tax Experts! An IRS enrolled agent (EA) is a person who has earned the privilege of representing taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service by either passing a three-part comprehensive IRS test covering individual and business tax returns, or through experience as a former IRS employee. Enrolled agent status is the highest credential the IRS awards. Individuals who obtain this elite status must adhere to ethical standards and complete 72 hours of continuing education courses every three years.
An enrolled agent (EA) is a federally-authorized tax practitioner who has technical expertise in the field of taxation and who is empowered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to represent taxpayers before all administrative levels—examination, collection, and appeals—of the Internal Revenue Service. To be eligible for renewal for the enrollment cycle, an enrolled agent must complete 72 continuing education (CE) credit hours for the three year cycle, with a minimum of 16 CE per year.
Enrolled agents (EAs) are America's Tax Experts. EAs are the only federally licensed tax practitioners who specialize in taxation and also have unlimited rights to represent taxpayers before the IRS. The easiest and fastest way to locate an enrolled agent in your area is to visit www.naea.org. The  Find an EA  function located at the top of the home page will allow you to search instantly by locality or specialty.