The most well-known and common plants that can be poisonous or toxic to pets. Aconite-Is a garden flower whose roots, foliage and seeds can be poisonous. Apple-The seeds of an apple can be poisonous to pets. Arrowgrasses-These are marsh type plants whose leaves contain poisons. Atropa Belladonna-This is a type of garden herb in which the entire plant can be poisonous to pets, especially its seeds and roots. Lilies-Plants of the lily variety are very poisonous to cats. Even very small amounts of this plant could cause serious kidney damage. Tulips-The toxic portion of this plant is the actual bulb, which can cause drooling, central nervous system depression, gastrointestinal irritation, cardiac issues and convulsions.
Common Poisonous Plants and Plant Parts. Vegetation helps sustain life. We eat many plants, herbs and so forth in our daily diet. But, we must remember to be choosy. Some plants, trees or shrubs are potential killers of man. Some part of the ornamental plants or flowers in your yard may contain deadly poison. Many poisonous plants are so common ... 
The root of the iris is where the largest concentration of toxins is found. Iris contains rhizomes and pentacylic terpenoids, which can cause vomiting, diarrhea, drooling and lethargy in cats and dogs. This plant is less toxic to humans, but can still cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and stomach pain if ingested. 
Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting. Also handling the plant may cause a skin irritation or an allergic reaction. Although an edible starch has been extracted from the plant in China, similar to Iris ensata. 
Poisonous Iris Plant Parts. Yellow iris, known botanically as iris pseudacorus--or commonly as pale yellow iris or yellow flag--is a flowering plant whose internal liquids are a severe irritant to the skin, and whose underground rhizomes are highly poisonous and deadly to animals and humans if ingested. The chemical action of the toxic substance in yellow iris is not well understood, but thought to be iridin, according to a study by M.R. Cooper and A.W. Johnson entitled Poisonous Plants in Britain and Their Effects on Animals and Man..
Blue Flag Iris has showy blue flowers in late spring and early summer. When the flowers are done, the edges of the petals curl up. Blue Flag Iris flower bud. Blue Flag Iris seed capsule, ripening. Blue Flag Iris ripe seed capsule split open to release its seeds. Blue Flag Iris seed capsules in winter-the seeds are all gone. This is on a northern lake in February. A nice clump of Blue Flag Iris in its watery environment. Sometimes the young leaves will have a reddish-purple tinge to them. 
General Poisoning Notes: Blue flag (Iris versicolor) is a native herb found in eastern and central Canada. This plant has been mentioned as causing poisoning in humans and animals, but case reports have not been found. The plant juice can cause dermatitis in sensitive individuals. A glycoside, iridin (or irisin), has been implicated as the toxic compound in iris species, although this has not been confirmed (Fyles 1920, Cooper and Johnson 1984).
site search by freefind. Up Level. Below is a comprehensive list of plants that are categorized by mild, non and very toxic plants especially to our pets and in most cases to people. It should be noted that raisons and chocolate are VERY toxic to pets. Vaccine Reactions in Cats and Food recipes for good health | TOXIC TO DOGS AND CATS BEWARE OF COCOA MULCH | Hair Loss in Cats | Toxic Plants List-For Animals and Humans | Interceptor Heart Worm Med Dangerous | Flea treatments for pets and home. ©2013 Blue Iris Sanctuary All Rights Reserved.
I ris versicolor poisoning. General poisoning notes for Iris versicolor. Blue flag (Iris versicolor) is a native herb found in eastern and central Canada. This plant has been mentioned as causing poisoning in humans and animals, but case reports have not been found.
Iris Species. The large, eye-catching flowers and spear-like leaves of the iris provide an interesting multi-season dimension to any garden bed. Unfortunately, irises -- as well as the gladiolus species, another member of the iris family -- are toxic to all animals, including dogs, cats and even cattle. Scientists have isolated a number of toxic compounds, most notably irisin, terpenoids and quinines