Blake is a very popular first name for males (#342 out of 1220, Top 28%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#425 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Blake for boys. Transferred use of the surname. Originally a nickname for someone with hair or skin that was either very dark (Old English blaec) or very light (Old English blac). Made familiar in the 1980s due to the fictitious character Blake Carrington on the TV series Dynasty.
Look up Blake in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Blake is a surname or a given name which originated from Old English. Its derivation is uncertain; it could come from blac, a nickname for someone who had dark hair or skin, or from blaac, a nickname for someone with pale hair or skin. Another theory is that it is a corruption of Ap Lake, meaning Son of Lake. Blake was the name of one of the 14 Tribes of Galway in Ireland. These Blakes were descendants of Richard Caddell, alias Blake, who was involved in the Norman invasion of Ireland in 1169. As such a long present foreign name it became known as de Blaca bláca In. irish
English Meaning: The name Blake is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Blake is: Light; dark. American Meaning: The name Blake is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Blake is: Light; dark. Scottish Meaning: The name Blake is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Blake is: Dark; dark-haired. Can also mean the reverse: 'fair; pale.' Blakeman.
Origin of the name Blake: Transferred use of the surname, which is of two separate derivations. It originates both from the Old En-glish blaec (blæc, black-dark) complexioned and from The Old english (blāc, bright, shining, pale). wan The use of Blake as a given name stems from its prior use as a nick-name for someone with either a very dark or a very light complextion. Var: Blaike. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
The name Blake is a baby boy name. The name Blake comes from the Scottish origin. In Scottish The meaning of the name Blake is: Dark; dark-haired. Can also mean the reverse: 'fair; pale.' Blakeman.
It originates both from the Old En-glish blaec (blæc, black-dark) complexioned and from The Old english (blāc, bright, shining, pale). Wan the use Of blake as a given name stems from its prior use as a-nick name for someone with either a very dark or a very light. Complextion: Var. blaike The use of Blake as a given name stems from its prior use as a nick-name for someone with either a very dark or a very light complextion. Var: Blaike. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Blake /bla-ke/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less regularly as girls' name Blake) is pronounced blayk. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Blake is  black; pale, white. Transferred use of the surname. Originally a nickname for someone with hair or skin that was either very dark (Old English blaec) or very light (Old English blac). Made familiar in the 1980s due to the fictitious character Blake Carrington on the TV series Dynasty.
[ syll. bla-ke, bl-ake ] The baby boy name Blake is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is BL-K †. Blake is an English name of Old English origin. The name is of the meaning dark; fair. The name originated as a nickname for someone of very dark, or conversely very light, hair or skin. Blake is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1940s. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.299% of baby boys were given the name Blake. Its ranking then was #71. Out of all boy names in its group, Blake was the most commonly used in 2012.
It originates both from the Old En-glish blaec (blæc, black-dark) complexioned and from The Old english (blāc, bright, shining, pale). Wan the use Of blake as a given name stems from its prior use as a-nick name for someone with either a very dark or a very light. complextion The use of Blake as a given name stems from its prior use as a nick-name for someone with either a very dark or a very light complextion. Var: Blaike. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.