Wombats have been classified in different ways over the years, but there are two basic types: the Bare-nosed or Common wombat with 3 subspecies, and the Hairy-nosed wombat, with 2 species. The three subspecies of Bare-nosed/Common wombats are: 1  The Australian mainland Bare-nosed wombat (Vombatus ursinus hirsutus). 2  The Tasmanian wombat (Vombatus ursinus tasmaniensis). 3  The Flinders Island wombat (Vombatus ursinus ursinus). 
They grow to around a meter in length. There are three main species: the common Wombat of the east coast, the Southern Hairy-Nosed Wombat of the central southern desert and the Northern Hairy-Nosed Wombat, which is critically endangered. Wombats are thick set and muscular creatures but can run quite fast for their stocky build. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, or the IUCN Red List, all three Wombat species are listed, but each shows a different status or population trend. The Common Wombat is listed showing a status of least concern with a population trend of stable.
Southern hairy-nosed wombat The Southern hairy-nosed wombat is found in small pockets of semi-arid land in South Australia and Western Australia. In South Australia there are only six areas populated by the wombat; all west of the Murray River. All three wombats are very similar in appearance, except for their faces. The hairy-nosed wombats have broad, rounded and flat snouts and the Bare-nosed wombat has a small, rather cute button like nose. The hairy-nosed wombats have large ears and soft fur whereas the Bare-nosed wombat has small ears and courser fur.
WOMBAT Description The wombat is a marsupial. It has a pouch which faces backward so no dirt gets in when it is burrowing. Wombats are closely related to the koala. There are three types of wombats, the Common Wombat, the Southern Hairy-nosed Wombat and the extremely rare Northern Hairy-nosed Wombat. The Common Wombat is distinguishable mainly by its hairless nose and smaller ears. The Hairy-Nosed Wombats have softer fur.
Bare-nosed wombat The Bare-nosed wombat is probably the most known – and the most misunderstood – of the three species. Its old name “common wombat” gave the impression that it is a common animal and numbers are in abundance, which may have been the case several years ago. All three wombats are very similar in appearance, except for their faces. The hairy-nosed wombats have broad, rounded and flat snouts and the Bare-nosed wombat has a small, rather cute button like nose. The hairy-nosed wombats have large ears and soft fur whereas the Bare-nosed wombat has small ears and courser fur.
There are three main species: the common Wombat of the east coast, the Southern Hairy-Nosed Wombat of the central southern desert and the Northern Hairy-Nosed Wombat, which is critically endangered. Wombats are thick set and muscular creatures but can run quite fast for their stocky build. It is the smallest of the three wombats in Australia has red-brown fur and a shorter face. The Southern Hairy-nosed Wombat breeds from late September through to December.
It’s all threats to wombats and it’s the very first stage of a much bigger project,” Julie Old said. Australia has three types of the cute furry marsupials: northern hairy-nosed, southern hairy-nosed and the bare-nosed wombats. The second and the third species are now under threat. The animals can grow to a meter in length, and are quite fast, reaching 40 kilometers per hour in speed. 
Common wombat © Australian Geographic Society. Australia has three species of wombat: the common wombat, northern hairy-nosed wombat and southern hairy-nosed wombat. The common wombat occupies coastal and high country areas in south-eastern Australia, whereas the hairy-nosed wombats are more arid-adapted. Common wombat. Common wombats, also known as bare-nosed wombats, have a bare pointed nose, small ears and coarser brown fur. They average about 30 kg in weight (22–39 kg). Common wombats are nocturnal during the summer, but in winter often come out of their burrows during the day to feed and sun themselves.
1 A common wombat in the wild was observed to dig 1 m (3.3 ft) in 1 night, 6 m (20 ft) in 1 week (Triggs 1996). 2  In a controlled research study, captive southern hairy-nosed wombats excavated average of 20-30 kg (44-66 lb) dirt in 50 min, with one excavating 42 kg (93 lb) (Shimmin et al. 3  2001-2002). 
Wombats are Australian marsupials, which are pouched mammals like the kangaroo, possum and koala. There are three species of wombat; the critically endangered Northern hairy-nosed wombat, the vulnerable Southern hairy-nosed wombat and the Bare-nosed wombat, also known as the common wombat. All three wombats are very similar in appearance, except for their faces. The hairy-nosed wombats have broad, rounded and flat snouts and the Bare-nosed wombat has a small, rather cute button like nose. The hairy-nosed wombats have large ears and soft fur whereas the Bare-nosed wombat has small ears and courser fur.