The only common mineral that has properties similar to pyrite is marcasite, a dimorph of pyrite with the same chemical composition but an orthorhombic crystal structure. Marcasite does not have the same brassy yellow color of pyrite. Instead it is a pale brass color, sometimes with a slight tint of green.
Pyrite is a brass-yellow mineral with a bright metallic luster. It has a chemical composition of iron disulfide (FeS 2) and is the most common sulfide mineral. It forms at high and low temperatures and occurs, usually in small quantities, in igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks worldwide. The name pyrite is after the Greek pyr meaning fire..
Pyrite is a polymorph of marcasite, which means that it has the same chemistry, FeS 2, as marcasite; but a different structure and therefore different symmetry and crystal shapes. Pyrite is difficult to distinguish from marcasite when a lack of clear indicators exists.
Physical Properties. Pyrite rates a hardness of 6 to 6.5 on Mohs hardness scale, the scale used by geologists to describe a mineral's resistance to being scratched. For comparison, quartz has a hardness of 7, diamond has a hardness of 10, and gold has a hardness of 2.5.
Pyrite is a very common mineral, found in a wide variety of geological formations from sedimentary deposits to hydrothermal veins and as a constituent of metamorphic rocks. The brassy-yellow metallic colour of pyrite has in many cases lead to people mistaking it for Gold, hence the common nickname 'Fool's gold'.
Pyrite is classified as a sulfide. Sulfides contain a metal cation, Fe in pyrite's case, and a sulfur anion. A majority of economically important ore minerals are sulfides. Copper, cobalt, silver and lead are other examples of sulfides.
'Fool's gold' is an expression used to describe the mineral pyrite, sometimes called iron pyrite. The name fool's gold comes from when novice gold prospectors mistook tiny pieces of pyrite for gold when panning for it during old mining days. However, on close inspection, the mineral really looks nothing like gold.