Cummings is an Irish variant of Cumming, with the addition of English patronymic-s. The Cumming surname is of disputed origin. It may be from a Celtic personal name derived from the element cam bent, crooked a common element in such surnames as 'Campbell' and 'Cameron' .
In England the Cumming(s) surname was relatively frequent in Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and Yorkshire beginning in the 12th and 13th centuries. The Cummings surname was first found in Irish area of Connacht, where members of the family were Erenaghs of the local church. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Willelmus Comyn (Chancellor of Scotland), which was dated 1133, in the records of Kelso Abbey, Scotland.
The Irish names Cummins and Cummings are derived from the native Gaelic O'Comain Sept in Munster and from the O'Cuimin Sept in Connaught. There are a number of other versions of these Gaelic names including Commons and Hurley.
The Irish names Cummings and Cummins are derived from the native Gaelic O'Comain Sept in Munster and from the O'Cuimin Sept in Connaught. There are a number of other versions of these Gaelic names including Commons and Hurley.
ORIGINS OF THE NAME OF CUMMINGS. From the book Cummings Genealogy, Isaac Cummings 1601-1677 of Ipswich 1638 and Some of his Descendants, compiled and published by Albert Oren Cummins, Montpelier, Vermont, 1904.
Often there is confusion concerning certain Surnames. Are they Irish or are they Scottish. Many things contribute to the confusion. Hopefully the facts here presented will clear up a bit of this confusion -- at least in reference to the Surname CUMMINGS and its various spellings.
Woulfe says it is from cam, crooked, which is equally unacceptable. . The Surnames of Ireland,  by MacLYSAGHT states that the English surname Cummings was brought to Ireland by settlers but most Cummins families in Ireland are Irish stock, descend from O' Coinim or O' Comain.
If you are conducting some Cummings family history research then you can view the Cummings coat of arms and the name meaning and origin of the name as well as the meaning of symbols below.