Design. An LX vehicle model can also be indicative of a special exterior design. The Honda Civic LX, for instance, is not the highest model of luxury that Honda offers, but the LX has a design trim that makes it look different than the DX or EX sedans and coupes. While LX may be used to signify a specific luxurious package or design of a vehicle, standard or universal specifications do not exist for every type of LX car or SUV. Each manufacturer can choose what types of specs should be included in an LX edition.
i just bought a 2005 honda accord lx and i love it!! but i was just wondering, what's the difference between the lx's, dx's xle's, ce's, se's ect. for cars? pretty much, the DX models are the basic models. they're the low-end, low-feature models. LX models are a step up, and they feature the basic features-automatic windows and locks, maybe a better radio, nicer interior, and so on.
I'll use the Civic as an example since you mentioned it. DX stands for Deluxe, and it is the most basic model offered. A DX will get you power windows, a tilt/tele. wheel and a height adjustable driver's seat on a current model Civic. Go up one and you get an LX, which stands for Luxury. This would include larger wheels, power everything, cruise control, keyless entry and a folding rear-seat. The EX is only second-highest, and it stands for Executive
The Honda Accord EX is the top of the line Accord. The Accord comes is various trim levels starting with the DX. From there you move up to the LX, LX-V6, and finally the EX. O … nly Honda knows for sure exactly what the letters EX stand for, if they stand for anything. An lx is a sedan and an ex is a coupe Nope. LX and EX are simply trim lines Honda uses to identify various optional improvements from the base model. Either trim line ca … n be applied to sedans or coupes, Civic or Accord. Generally, DX is the base model, LX is the mid level and EX is the luxury level.
Answer   It doesn't always mean the same thing. It depends on the manufacturer. But I think EX means Executive, Extra, or Exceeds , LX usually means Luxury, and D … X means Deluxe. I have a 2001 Mazda 626 LX-V6 and LX is top-of-the line trim for Mazda. But for Honda, EX is top-of-the line trim, then LX, then DX. Hope this help! An lx is a sedan and an ex is a coupe Nope. LX and EX are simply trim lines Honda uses to identify various optional improvements from the base model. Either trim line ca … n be applied to sedans or coupes, Civic or Accord. Generally, DX is the base model, LX is the mid level and EX is the luxury level.
LX = Luxury. EX = Executive. Usually DX is the base model, LX has power windows and locks and other basic conveniences, and EX has a sunroof, alloy wheels, etc. etc. EX-L would indicate a leather interior
Lx-luxuary model-Power everything and all the perks. Dx-The lowest model-no power windows or sun roof or mirrors or anything nice like that. Ex-the middle model-its in between the other two Se-im not sure really Hope that atleast helps a little. DX stands for Deluxe, and it is the most basic model offered. A DX will get you power windows, a tilt/tele. wheel and a height adjustable driver's seat on a current model Civic.
I would like to know if anyone could clairify the difference between LX, DX, EX & SE for me (re a Honda Civic) And if anyone knows what they stand for. I.e. is LX luxury, DX Deluxe. SE Special Edition or Sports Edition. I get conflicting data. Thanks. 
1 Civic LX: the LX stands for Luxury, a fantastic Civic with lots of fun feataures. 2  Civic EX: the EX stands for Executive, a beautiful Civic with a one touch power moonroof and bluetooth handsfree to just name a few of the fantastic features. 1 Civic DX: the DX stands for Deluxe, a great basic Civic, we don't see many of these because they don't include air conditioning and let's face it we live in a hot climate during the summer so air conditioning is a must. 2 
LX can refer to the type of luxurious package that is available in a vehicle. Lexus has LX edition vehicles on the market. For example, the LX570 is a luxury sport utility vehicle that has a leather interior, Smart Access keyless entry system, push-start engine, built-in navigation system and rear view cameras. While LX may be used to signify a specific luxurious package or design of a vehicle, standard or universal specifications do not exist for every type of LX car or SUV. Each manufacturer can choose what types of specs should be included in an LX edition.