1 (This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 2  Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 3  Cooked uncovered for approximately 8 minutes. 4  Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 1 Add some oil to a paper towel and using tongs oil the hot grill by rubbing paper towel and oil across the bars of the grill. ( 2 This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 3
Continue to grill with the lid open for about 4 - 6 minutes. Flip the steaks over onto the other side, still over the hottest part of the grill. Grill the rib eye steaks for an additional 4 - 6 minutes on the other side, lid open, for a medium-rare delicious steak. Remove the steaks from the grill and allow to rest for 5 minutes before serving. The resting period is important so that the juices don't run out when you cut into the ribeye, so be patient! See, I told you this was easy! You don't have to over-think a good steak
1 Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 2  To test remove a steak from direct heat and insert a meat thermometer into the middle of the steak. 3  For medium rare the temperature should be 135º F. (See below for more info) . 1 Add some oil to a paper towel and using tongs oil the hot grill by rubbing paper towel and oil across the bars of the grill. ( 2 This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 3  Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill.
1 Once grill is preheated clean the grill with a grill brush to remove residue. 2  Add some oil to a paper towel and using tongs oil the hot grill by rubbing paper towel and oil across the bars of the grill. ( 3 This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 4  Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 1 Add some oil to a paper towel and using tongs oil the hot grill by rubbing paper towel and oil across the bars of the grill. ( 2 This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 3
1 Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 2  Cooked uncovered for approximately 8 minutes. 3  Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 4  To test remove a steak from direct heat and insert a meat thermometer into the middle of the steak. 1 Add some oil to a paper towel and using tongs oil the hot grill by rubbing paper towel and oil across the bars of the grill. ( 2 This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 3 
1 3 When the grill is ready, place the steak on the grates and cover the grill. 2  Cook, undisturbed, until grill marks appear on the bottom and the steak’s lightly charred on the edges, about 4 to 5 minutes. 3  Flip, cover the grill, and cook until the steak’s medium rare, about 4 minutes more. 1 Meanwhile, season the steak on all sides with salt and pepper. 2  3 When the grill is ready, place the steak on the grates and cover the grill. 3
Place the steaks on the hot grill to sear. Don’t move them for 2-3 minutes. If you want diagonal hatch marks, you can rotate your steak 45 degrees after a couple of minutes and then finish searing. Use the tongs again to flip steaks and sear the other side. 
Directions. Preheat a grill to high heat. Place rib-eye steaks on a large platter and season with rub on all sides. Transfer seasoned steaks to the hot grill, and cook for 4 to 6 minutes on each side for medium-rare, longer if desired. Remove steaks and let rest for 5 to 10 minutes before serving. In a small bowl, combine all ingredients, to taste
Scrape the grill clean with a grill brush, leave one side on high and adjust the other side to medium heat. The key to not overcooking a thick ribeye is to sear the steak on both sides. On the high temperature sear the steaks about 2 minutes on each side with the lid down. Once the steaks are browned on both sides, slide them to the cooler part of the grill, continue grilling ribeye with the lid down to the desired doneness. 