Greek yogurt has approximately 50 milligrams per 6-ounce serving, Therefore, Greek yogurt does not exceed the American Medical Association's recommended total daily limit of 1.5 grams per day. However, you should consult your health care provider if you are on a low-sodium diet to make sure yogurt is acceptable. Keep in mind, however, that some varieties of Greek yogurt are high in fat and have less calcium than regular yogurt. Additionally, Greek yogurt is nearly double the cost of regular varieties.
Here's a closer look at how the two stack up nutrition-wise. Protein. Greek yogurt is high in protein, which helps promote fullness. A typical 6-ounce serving contains 15 to 20 grams, the amount in 2 to 3 ounces of lean meat. That makes it particularly appealing to vegetarians, who sometimes struggle to get enough of the nutrient. [See Health Hinges on the Whole Diet, Not Just One Food .]. First, to be clear: Both Greek and regular yogurt, in their plain, nonfat or low-fat forms, can be part of a healthful diet. They're low in calories and packed with calcium and live bacterial cultures.
Greek yogurt is a lower lactose food, with a 6-ounce container of nonfat plain Greek yogurt providing only 4 grams of lactose. The lower amount of lactose found in Greek yogurt is due to the straining process, making this rich, creamy food a lactose-intolerant friendly one. Dairy foods, including Greek yogurt, are an important source of calcium, magnesium and potassium, which is believed to help lower high blood pressure. [Read: The Best Foods for Lowering Your Blood Pressure .]. No. 3: Weight Management. Numerous studies have also found a link between eating dairy and weight loss.
What differentiates Greek yogurt from traditional yogurt is that Greek yogurt has been strained to remove the whey. As a result, Greek yogurt has a creamier, thicker texture and rich flavor. Dairy foods, including Greek yogurt, are an important source of calcium, magnesium and potassium, which is believed to help lower high blood pressure. [Read: The Best Foods for Lowering Your Blood Pressure .]. No. 3: Weight Management. Numerous studies have also found a link between eating dairy and weight loss.
Make a Greek yogurt smoothie for breakfast. Greek yogurt is one of those foods that contradicts the saying if it tastes good, it must be bad for you.. The yogurt is heavily strained to remove liquid whey and lactose, leaving behind a tangy, creamy product. Keep in mind, however, that some varieties of Greek yogurt are high in fat and have less calcium than regular yogurt. Additionally, Greek yogurt is nearly double the cost of regular varieties.
Versatility. Because of its thick, creamy texture, Greek yogurt can be substituted for other fats in baked goods. Swap cream cheese, oil, butter, sour cream or mayonnaise with yogurt to cut calories and boost the protein content of your favorite desserts. Greek yogurt can also be part of savory dishes. Keep in mind, however, that some varieties of Greek yogurt are high in fat and have less calcium than regular yogurt. Additionally, Greek yogurt is nearly double the cost of regular varieties.
Rich, creamy and tart, Greek yogurt is a decadent dream for you if you often crave healthy snacks. This diva of dairy goods is gaining more and more popularity, as nutritionists and health experts around the world agree that snacking on Greek yogurt is an incredibly smart and gratifying choice. Here are five wonderful reasons why.
2. For Bone Health. Greek yogurt is made from a highly concentrated form of milk, so you're actually getting more calcium per mouthful than you would if you drank a glass of fresh milk. The composition of Greek yogurt averages at about 20 percent calcium, making it an effective bone strengthener. This diva of dairy goods is gaining more and more popularity, as nutritionists and health experts around the world agree that snacking on Greek yogurt is an incredibly smart and gratifying choice. Here are five wonderful reasons why.
8. Even though Greek yogurt is thicker than regular yogurt, and therefore not so “slimy,” some people still don’t care for the consistency. One way around that is to incorporate the yogurt into a smoothie drink. Alternately, you can use it as a topping on other foods. 2. Greek yogurt is packed with probiotics. These are microorganisms such as bacteria and yeast. These normally live in your intestines, and having good microorganisms in your intestines helps keep you healthy, says Shane Griffin, a certified nutritional practitioner and founder of Whole Life Balance.