Myotonia is only found in this type of muscular dystrophy. Myotonic dystrophy can affect the muscles in the face as well as the central nervous system, adrenal glands, heart, thyroid, eyes, and gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Symptoms most often appear first in the face and neck. These diseases cause damage and weakness to muscles over time. This damage and weakness is caused by the lack of a protein called dystrophin, which is necessary for normal muscle function. The absence of this protein can cause problems with walking, swallowing, and muscle coordination.
For example, drowsiness may be a symptom while dilated pupils may be a sign. The symptoms of muscular dystrophy are the result of a deterioration of the body's muscles. This deterioration is due to the death of the muscle cells and muscle tissues and leads to ongoing muscle wasting and muscle weakness. 
Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue. Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) is a less severe variant of Duchenne muscular dystrophy and is caused by the production of a truncated, but partially functional form of dystrophin. Survival is usually into old age.
1 Becker muscular dystrophy is like Duchenne, except milder. 2  It also affects boys but the symptoms start later -- between ages 11 and 25. 3  Myotonic muscular dystrophy is the most common form in adults. 4  People who have it can't relax their muscles after they contract. 1 Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common form. 2  It mainly affects boys, and starts between ages 3 and 5. 3  Becker muscular dystrophy is like Duchenne, except milder. 4
People usually get one of nine major forms of the disease: 1  Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common form. 2  It mainly affects boys, and starts between ages 3 and 5. 3  Becker muscular dystrophy is like Duchenne, except milder. 4  It also affects boys but the symptoms start later -- between ages 11 and 25. 1
Muscular dystrophy is a group of diseases that make muscles weaker and less flexible over time. It is caused by a problem in the genes that control how the body keeps muscles healthy. For some people, the disease starts early in childhood. Others don’t have any symptoms until they are teenagers or middle-aged adults. 1 Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common form. 2  It mainly affects boys, and starts between ages 3 and 5. 3  Becker muscular dystrophy is like Duchenne, except milder. 4  It also affects boys but the symptoms start later -- between ages 11 and 25.
Symptoms of Muscular Dystrophy: Introduction. The symptoms of muscular dystrophy are the result of a deterioration of the body's muscles. This deterioration is due to the death of the muscle cells and muscle tissues and leads to ongoing muscle wasting and muscle weakness. Muscular dystrophy progresses and gets worse over time eventually. 
Some types of muscular dystrophy affect only males; some people with MD enjoy a normal life span with mild symptoms that progress very slowly; others experience swift and severe muscle weakness and wasting, dying in their late teens to early 20s. The various types of MD affect more than 50,000 Americans. 1 Becker. 2  This form is similar to Duchenne muscular dystrophy, but the disease is much milder: symptoms appear later and progress more slowly. 3  It usually appears between the ages of 2 and 16 but can appear as late as age 25.
Muscular dystrophies are a group of diseases that are passed down genetically. These diseases cause damage and weakness to muscles over time. This damage and weakness is caused by the lack of a protein called dystrophin, which is necessary for normal muscle function. The absence of this protein can cause problems with walking, swallowing, and muscle coordination.
Symptoms. The main sign of muscular dystrophy is progressive muscle weakness. Specific signs and symptoms begin at different ages and in different muscle groups, depending on the type of muscular dystrophy. 1 Myotonic muscular dystrophy is the most common form of adult-onset muscular dystrophy. 2  Facial and neck muscles are usually the first to be affected. 3  Facioscapulohumeral (FSHD). 4  Muscle weakness typically begins in the face and shoulders.