Explain that a montage is a special kind of collage and that it is made from parts of magazines, photographs, or other pictures that the artist puts together in a new way. Show several examples of montages and explain the theme of each montage example and the use of line, shape and space that the artist uses. 
The montage from 1969 Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid shows a trip from New York City to Bolivia that occurred in the beginning of the century. The second montage is from the 2002 The Rules of Attraction, which narrates a journey across many countries in Europe. The two clips below epitomize what a montage consists of. I chose these particular examples because they are from major motion pictures, and both illustrate the same topic – a trip – but in two extremely contrasting ways.
The term montage sequence has been used primarily by British and American studios, which refers to the common technique as outlined in this article. The montage sequence is usually used to suggest the passage of time, rather than to create symbolic meaning as it does in Soviet montage theory. The second montage occurs near the end of the film, showing the passage of time. Unlike the clarity of the Song of Freedom montage, this one layers multiple images in an indistinct and dream-like fashion.
The principle contribution of Soviet film theorists to global cinema was Montage Theory, which brought formalism to bear on filmmaking. Soviet montage theory is an approach to understanding and creating cinema that relies heavily upon editing (montage is French for assembly or editing). In this sense, the montage will in fact form thoughts in the minds of the viewer, and is therefore a powerful tool for propaganda. Intellectual montage follows in the tradition of the ideological Russian Proletcult Theatre which was a tool of political agitation.
Montage Theory, in its rudimentary form, asserts that a series of connected images allows for complex ideas to be extracted from a sequence and, when strung together, constitute the entirety of a film’s ideological and intellectual power. In this sense, the montage will in fact form thoughts in the minds of the viewer, and is therefore a powerful tool for propaganda. Intellectual montage follows in the tradition of the ideological Russian Proletcult Theatre which was a tool of political agitation.
Montage (/mɒnˈtɑːʒ/) (mänˈtäZH/) mänˈtäzh is a technique in film editing in which a series of short shots are edited into a sequence to condense, space, time and. information The second montage occurs near the end of the film, showing the passage of time. Unlike the clarity of the Song of Freedom montage, this one layers multiple images in an indistinct and dream-like fashion.
(noun) - Montage is a combination of images taken from any number of media (photographs, film, and handmade). These images can be whole or partial, glued together on a surface (such as a photomontage), or edited together to produce a video or film. 
By definition, a montage is a single pictorial composition made by juxtaposing or superimposing many pictures or designs.. In filmmaking, a montage is an editing technique in which shots are juxtaposed in an often fast-paced fashion that compresses time and conveys a lot of information in a relatively short period. The two clips below epitomize what a montage consists of. I chose these particular examples because they are from major motion pictures, and both illustrate the same topic – a trip – but in two extremely contrasting ways.
Montage (/mɒnˈtɑːʒ/) (mänˈtäZH/) mänˈtäzh is a technique in film editing in which a series of short shots are edited into a sequence to condense, space, time and. Information the term has been used in various. contexts The second montage occurs near the end of the film, showing the passage of time. Unlike the clarity of the Song of Freedom montage, this one layers multiple images in an indistinct and dream-like fashion.