1 Sweetest Day is always observed on the third Saturday in October, which falls on Oct. 17 in 2015. 2  80 percent of Hallmark's Sweetest Day cards have a “love” or “romance” theme. 3  Hallmark research indicates that Sweetest Day is more popular with younger people who prefer trendy designs and a casual or lighthearted tone.
Whereas sweetest day is not widely or large observed as the Valentine’s Day, still sweetest day is celebrated in parts of United States. Sweetest Day is celebrated on the third Saturday in month of October. Holiday on sweetest day is very much significant in some of the regions in
It occurs in October on the third Saturday of the month. For 2015, Sweetest Day is celebrated on October 17. The holiday has its origins in 1922, when an Ohio man by the name of Herbert Birch Kingston wanted to spread joy to the neglected, orphans, and others with similar fates.
Sweetest Day Date. Sweetest Day date falls on the 3rd Saturday in the month of October every year. It originally began in the early 20th century to honor sweethearts, close friends, relatives or employees with special gift of sweets or chocolate.
Usually celebrated on the 3rd Saturday in the month of October, Sweetest Day began in the early 20th century to honor sweethearts, close friends, relatives or employees with special gift of sweets or chocolate. This year, Sweetest Day is celebrated on Saturday, October 17, 2015.
Although the sweetest day is not as popular as Valentine's Day, the celebration of Sweetest Day-on the 3rd Saturdayin the month of October-originally began in the early 20th century to honor sweethearts, close friends, relatives or employees with special gift of sweets or chocolate.
The 12 Cleveland committeemen who planned Cleveland's Sweetest Day, as published in The Cleveland Plain Dealer on October 8, 1922. Full page Sweetest Day editorial
The first Sweetest Day was on October 10, 1921 in Cleveland. The Cleveland Plain Dealer's October 8, 1922 edition, which chronicles the first Sweetest Day in Cleveland, states that the first Sweetest Day was planned by a committee of 12 confectioners chaired by candymaker Adam Olis.