Osmanthus fragrans in full bloom (October) in Jingjiang, China. It is cultivated as an ornamental plant in gardens in Asia, Europe, North America, and elsewhere in the world for its deliciously fragrant flowers which carry the scent of ripe peaches or apricots. Osmanthus jam is used as an ingredient in a type of gruel called chatāng (chátāng), 茶汤 which is made from sorghum or millet flour and sugar mixed with boiling. Water this dish is associated with the northern city Of, tianjin although it may also be found In. beijing
Osmanthus /ɒzˈmaenθəs/ ɒzˈmænθəs is a genus of about 30 species of flowering plants in the Family. oleaceae Osmanthus range in size from shrubs to small trees, 2–12 m (7–39 ft) tall. The leaves are opposite, evergreen, and simple, with an entire, serrated or coarsely toothed margin.
August 29, 2014 allhartadmin Osmanthus Oil. The flower of the Osmanthus fragrans plant is processed to produce Osmanthus essential oil. With origins in China, this very strong oil has a sweet honeyed floral and fruit fragrance with hints of peach, apricot and fig. 
Osmanthus is one of the 10 famous flowers in China and Taiwan. A traditional symbol of Love and Romance, Osmanthus was used in old wedding customs in Taiwan, when the bride prepared Sweet Osmanthus and Pomegranate pot plants and carried them to her new family. You can create your own little Fragrant Valley... The Plant. Osmanthus fragrans, or Sweet Olive (Tea Olive), belongs to Olive Family (Oleaceae) along with numerous jasmines. It is evergreen tree or shrub with a moderate growth rate, native to China.
Osmanthus blossoms, though not as popular in the West as some other flowers more commonly found, have the olfactory beauty of an intricate dentelle of fruity-leathery smells evoking plums, apricots and prunes hidden in the suede pouch upon a warrior-poet’s belt, as if taken out of a Chinese vignette. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Osmanthus is a genus of flowering, evergreen trees and shrubs in the family Oleaceae. The plants produce small white flowers in the spring, summer or fall that not only are beautiful and fragrant, but also are used in many Asian dishes and tea
• OSMANTHUS (noun). The noun OSMANTHUS has 1 sense: 1. widely distributed genus of evergreen shrubs or trees of southern United States and Middle East and China and Japan. Familiarity information: OSMANTHUS used as a noun is very rare. 
Definition of OSMANTHUS. : a widely distributed genus of evergreen shrubs or trees (family Oleaceae) with inconspicuous bisexual flowers, sometimes foliage resembling holly, and a drupaceous fruit with a hard woody endocarp — see devilwood. ADVERTISEMENT. 