Basal cell carcinoma is a cancer that grows on parts of your skin that get a lot of sun. It's natural to feel worried when your doctor tells you that you have it, but keep in mind that it's the least risky type of skin cancer. As long as you catch it early, you can be cured. 
Basal-cell carcinoma or basal-cell cancer (BCC), a skin cancer, is one of the most common cancers in the United States. It rarely metastasizes or kills. However, because it can cause significant destruction and disfigurement by invading surrounding tissues, it is still considered malignant. 
At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Basal cell carcinoma is a type of skin cancer. Basal cell carcinoma begins in the basal cells — a type of cell within the skin that produces new skin cells as old ones die off. Basal cell carcinoma often appears as a waxy bump, though it can take other forms. Basal cell carcinoma occurs most often on areas of the skin that are often exposed to the sun, such as your face and neck. 
What is basal cell carcinoma? What causes basal cell carcinoma? The commonest cause is too much exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light from the sun or from sun beds. Basal cell carcinomas can occur anywhere on your body, but are most common on areas that are exposed to the sun, such as your face, head, neck and ears. It is also possible for a basal cell carcinoma to develop where burns, scars or ulcers have damaged the skin. Basal cell carcinomas are not infectious. 
Basal cell carcinoma is the most common form of non-melanoma skin cancer that forms in the basal cells of the skin as an abnormal growth of lesions. The basal cell carcinoma is not easy to detect from an external examination of the benign colored moles or outgrowth in skin. People exposed to ultraviolet radiation and blazing sunlight get the symptoms of this type of skin cancer.
Basal cell carcinoma is the most common human cancer. It is usually caused by excessive exposure to ultraviolet light. Although not life threatening, basal cell carcinoma can destroy the skin and neighbouring tissues, causing significant cosmetic disfigurement, especially on the face. About Basal Cell Carcinoma. Basal cell carcinoma is the most common type of skin cancer. It usually occurs on areas of the skin that have been in the sun, most often the nose. Often this cancer appears as a raised bump that looks smooth and pearly
Basal cell carcinoma. This is not only the most common type of skin cancer, but the most common type of cancer in humans. About 8 out of 10 skin cancers are basal cell carcinomas (also called basal cell cancers). When seen under a microscope, the cells in these cancers look like cells in the lowest layer of the epidermis, called the basal cell layer. These cancers usually develop on sun-exposed areas, especially the head and neck. 1 Basal cells: These cells are in the lower part of the epidermis, called the basal cell layer. 2  These cells constantly divide to form new cells to replace the squamous cells that wear off the skin’s surface. 3  As these cells move up in the epidermis, they get flatter, eventually becoming squamous cells
Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! Basal cell carcinoma: The most common type of skin cancer, which commonly presents as a sore that seems to get better and then recurs and may start to bleed. Basal cell carcinoma often occurs on the face and neck, where the skin is exposed to sunlight. 