The yak is a type of bovine animal that exists in both tamed and wild varieties -- the domesticated yak (Bos grunniens) and the wild yak (Bos mutus). Yak Family. All yaks are part of the family Bovidae. This ungulate family is extremely extensive, and consists of a wide array of species, including sheep, goats, cows, antelopes and gazelles. The family Bovidae encompasses 137 species in total, according to Animal Diversity Web of the University of Michigan.
Yak Facts. Yak is a close relative of buffalo and bison. There are two species of yaks: domesticated and wild. These two differ in size and appearance. Wild yaks inhabit alpine meadows and steppes of central Asia. 90% of all known yaks can be found in Tibetan Plateau in the Himalayas. Yaks are highly appreciated because of their fur, fatty milk, meat and dung (which is used as a fuel). Number of domesticated yaks is stable. Unfortunately, number of wild yaks is decreased due to habitat loss and excessive hunting. Wild yaks are listed as vulnerable (nearly endangered).
The yak is a herd animal found in the mountainous regions of central Asia. The yak tend to gather in herds from 10 yaks to 100 yaks, most of which are female. There are only a few male yaks per herd. Although there is a large domestic population of yak, there are only a few wild yak remaining. The yak is still used in many parts of central Asia, for pulling heavy farm machines and transporting large loads through the mountain passes. 
A wild, shaggy-haired ox (Bos grunniens) of the mountains of central Asia.A domesticated yak, used as a work animal or raised for meat and milk.     The yak is a long … -haired bovine found thoughout the Himalayan region of Central-Southern Asia. Yaks are very efficient food-converting animals and do well on a variety of pastures with no supplemental feed required. The Yak grazes on grasses, herbs, and lichens. In wint … er Yaks eat poor coarse grass, withered leaves and twigs, and quench the thirst with snow and ice. 1 person found this useful.
Yak is a large animal. Domesticated yaks are smaller than the wild type. On average, wild male yak can reach height of 6.5 feet at the shoulder and weigh of 2200 pounds. Yaks are highly appreciated because of their fur, fatty milk, meat and dung (which is used as a fuel). Number of domesticated yaks is stable. Unfortunately, number of wild yaks is decreased due to habitat loss and excessive hunting. Wild yaks are listed as vulnerable (nearly endangered).
David De Lossy/Digital Vision/Getty Images. The yak is a type of bovine animal that exists in both tamed and wild varieties -- the domesticated yak (Bos grunniens) and the wild yak (Bos mutus). Although both categories are very similar physically, there are some key distinguishing factors. Yak Family. All yaks are part of the family Bovidae. This ungulate family is extremely extensive, and consists of a wide array of species, including sheep, goats, cows, antelopes and gazelles. The family Bovidae encompasses 137 species in total, according to Animal Diversity Web of the University of Michigan.
The yak (Bos grunniens and Bos mutus) is a long-haired bovid found throughout the Himalaya region of southern Central Asia, the Tibetan Plateau and as far north as Mongolia and Russia. Most yaks are domesticated Bos grunniens. Yak rider near Tsomgo Lake, Sikkim, India (3700 m). Nepali domestic yaks transport goods on a trek to Mount Everest. Domesticated yaks have been kept for thousands of years, primarily for their milk, fibre and meat, and as beasts of burden.
Genus: Bos. Species: B. grunniens. During summer, yaks consume a variety of growing grasses and forbs such as wildflowers, and supplement their diet with shrubs and lichen. During winter, they consume the dormant grasses and lichens, including some mosses. Yaks are very efficient food-converting animals and do well on a variety of pastures with no supplemental feed required. The Yak grazes on grasses, herbs, and lichens. In wint … er Yaks eat poor coarse grass, withered leaves and twigs, and quench the thirst with snow and ice. 1 person found this useful.