From nedelja. In Greek mythology, Neda was an Arcadian nymph that nutured Zeus as a child. The river Neda and also a town derived their name from her. The name may also be considered a feminine form of Ned, a nickname for Edward (Old English) wealthy guard. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Neda and corresponding names. Edward is the only popular variation form of Neda (unlisted) ranked in the Top 1000.
In 2012, among the group of girl names directly related to Neda, Natalie was the most regularly used. Baby names that sound like Neda include Nada, Nadda, Nadette, Nadie, Nadja, Nady, Nahyde, Naida, Namid, Namide, Namyd, Namyde, Nanda, Nanette, Nata, Natanne, Nati, Natie, Natti, and Nattie. In addition, Neda is a variant of Natalie (English, French, and German) in the Slavic language. Variants of Neda include Nedaa, Nedah, Nedda, Neddi, Neddie, Nedi, Nedia, Nedie, and Neida.
Meaning of Neda. English name. In English, the name Neda means-Wealthy guardian.. Other origins for the name Neda include-English, Slovakian.The name Neda is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Wealthy guardian.
Neda is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ne-da. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 7900 in baby name popularity for girls with 15 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Neda Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Neda has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Neda to other names. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Neda in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Neda in Nautical Flags page.
Neda's language of origin is Latin and Old English, and it is predominantly used in Slavic, Czech, and English. From Old English roots, its meaning is 'prosperous guardian' - in this context, Neda can be used in the Czech, English, and Slavic languages. In addition, Neda is a variant of Natalie (English, French, and German) in the Slavic language. Variants of Neda include Nedaa, Nedah, Nedda, Neddi, Neddie, Nedi, Nedia, Nedie, and Neida. Neda is not widely used as a baby name for girl
Neda /ne-da/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Slavic origin, and the meaning of Neda is born on Sunday. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Neda and corresponding names. Edward is the only popular variation form of Neda (unlisted) ranked in the Top 1000.
Neda is a somewhat popular first name for females (#3245 out of 4276, Top 76%) but a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Neda and corresponding names. Edward is the only popular variation form of Neda (unlisted) ranked in the Top 1000.
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Neda in Farsi origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Foetus responds. Absolutely, everyone knows that the foetus present inside the womb of the mother can hear. But something which you did not know is that foetus responds to sound properly i.e. in a similar manner as they respond to any kind of internal stimulation.
Meaning of Neda. Slovakian name. In Slovakian, the name Neda means-sundays child. Other origins for the name Neda include-Slovakian, English.The name Neda is most often used as a girl name or female name. Slovakian Name Meaning-sundays child. Origin-Slovakia. Alternate Origins-English
Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Neda: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Neda: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Neda: | Edit. Persian name meaning 'the voice, the call' in Farsi.