Applications Zirconia (Zirconium Oxide) is a white powdered metal used to create dental frameworks for crowns, bridges and other dental substructures. It replaces gold or stainless steel used in the past, creates the appearance of a whiter more translucent tooth, and is transparent in xrays. Introduction. The zirconium or zirconia (the Arabic zargun which means gold), in its purest form exists in two forms: the crystalline form, a soft metal, white, ductile, and the amorphous form, a powder-blue black viz: Zircon. A zirconium silicate, is the primary source of supply Baddeleyite.
The All-purpose Construction Material. Unlike other ceramic materials, zirconium oxide (ZrO 2 –also known as zirconia) is a material with very high resistance to crack propagation. Zirconium oxide ceramics also have very high thermal expansion and are therefore often the material of choice for joining ceramic and steel. 
Zirconia (Zirconium Oxide) is a white powdered metal used to create dental frameworks for crowns, bridges and other dental substructures. It replaces gold or stainless steel used in the past, creates the appearance of a whiter more translucent tooth, and is transparent in xrays. 
Zirconium silicate, also zirconium orthosilicate, (Zr Si O4) is a chemical compound, a silicate of zirconium. It occurs in nature as the zircon, a silicate mineral. Zirconium silicate is also sometimes known as zircon flour. Zirconium silicate is usually colorless, but impurities induce various colorations. It is insoluble in water, acids, alkali and aqua regia. It is separated from sand by electrostatic and electromagnetic methods. Also, the compound can be made by fusion of SiO2 and ZrO2 in an arc furnace, or by reacting a zirconium salt with sodium silicate in an aqueous solution.
The Y-TZP ceramic is the material that is used in dentistry as ZIRCONIUM. Simply, it has been always easier to say zirconium than Y-TZP. CeraRoot Zirconium implants (Y-TZP) and de zirconium prosthetics (Y-TZP) with porcelain for final color characterization. Production of zirconium ceramic = zirconia = ZrO2. Zirconium ceramic is obtained through a reductive clorination (Kroll process). At the end of this process, one can obtain zirconium powder. Zirconia (ZrO2) = zirconium ceramic. ZIRCONIA is a powder that is used as pigment for white paints, and also in the abrasives.
In other words, it ‘bridges’ the gap in your teeth. A zirconia bridge is different in that it is produced from Zirconium oxide – a tough form of dental ceramic which is also compatible with the body. This means that the body will not reject or react in a negative way to the bridge. 
Zirconium Silicate-Based Product. Zircon is a zirconium silicate product that is used for a wide variety of applications. The majority of the zircon sold is used in a variety of high temperature applications. Zircon is a very hard refractory material resistant to chemical attack. Most of its applications rely on these special properties of zircon. Zirconium dioxide, which is referred to as zirconia, is derived from further processing of the zircon product and is used in laboratory crucibles, metallurgical furnaces and as a refractory material.
Zirconium dioxide (ZrO 2), sometimes known as zirconia (not to be confused with zircon), is a white crystalline oxide of zirconium. Its most naturally occurring form, with a monoclinic crystalline structure, is the mineral baddeleyite. 