General Discussion. Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS) is a rare genetic overgrowth disorder. It is characterized by a wide spectrum of symptoms and physical findings that vary in range and severity from case to case. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Beckwith Wiedemann Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
Beckwith–Wiedemann syndrome (/ˈbɛkˌwɪθ ˈviːdə.mən/ ; abbreviated BWS) is an overgrowth disorder usually present at birth, characterized by an increased risk of childhood cancer and certain congenital features. Common features used to define BWS are: 1  macroglossia (large tongue), Beckwith–Wiedemann syndrome has an estimated incidence of one in 13,700; about 300 children with BWS are born each year in the United States. The exact incidence of BWS is unknown because of the marked variability in the syndrome's presentation and difficulties with diagnosis.
Beckwith-wiedemann syndrome (BWS) is a congenital, autosomal dominant disorder characterized by overgrowth, congenital malformation, and tumor predisposition. 
Aged 7 weeks. Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome is a rare genetic disorder affecting approximately 1:15000 children. Principally it is an overgrowth disorder, with the overgrowth being manifested internally (as in large organs) externally, and combinations of both. 
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS) is an overgrowth disorder present at birth that is manifested by the 11th chromosome. BWS is NOT a disease, it is simply a condition. History: BWS was first discovered in the 1960’s by Dr. J. Bruce Beckwith, an American pathologist, and Dr. Hans-Rudolf Wiedemann, a German pediatrician. 
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS) is a genetic disorder, characterized by overgrowth in certain areas of the body. BWS has a wide range of symptoms and severity. Many features of BWS become less obvious as children get older. 
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS) is a rare genetic overgrowth disorder. It is characterized by a wide spectrum of symptoms and physical findings that vary in range and severity from case to case. 
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a condition that affects many parts of the body. It is classified as an overgrowth syndrome, which means that affected infants are considerably larger than normal (macrosomia) and tend to be taller than their peers during childhood. The signs and symptoms of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome vary among affected individuals. Some children with this condition are born with an opening in the wall of the abdomen (an omphalocele) that allows the abdominal organs to protrude through the belly-button.