Get a Nursing License. Tell me how to become a: 1  Registered Nurse (RN) -. 2  s go to college for 2-4 years and independently perform a wide range of complex health care in many types of settings. 3  Qualified.
Becoming a licensed practical nurse or a licensed vocational nurse is one way to enter the surging health care field without attending years of school. Students frequently complete their education and begin working within two years. 
In order to become a registered nurse, students must graduate from an accredited program. Several options are available, including nursing diplomas, associate degrees or bachelor’s degrees. An associate degree in nursing typically takes two years to complete, though accelerated programs can shorten this timeframe. 
1 Registered Nurse (RN) -. 2  s go to college for 2-4 years and independently perform a wide range of complex health care in many types of settings. 3  Qualified. 4  s may overlap the practice of medicine and perform more advanced activities such as in the case of nurse practitioners, nurse midwives, or nurse anesthetists. Tell me how to become a: 1 
Licensed Practical and Licensed Vocational Nurses (LPNs/LVNs) do not work independently, but are supervised by a Registered Nurse (RN). Physicians and RNs determine courses of patient care; an LPN’s job is to assist patients in carrying out these instructions. 
2. Choose the type of nursing school you want to attend. In California, there are three types of pre-licensure nursing programs, and two alternative routes to become a registered nurse: 1  Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) - Takes 2-3 years. 2  Offered at many community colleges. 3  Prepares you to provide registered nursing care in numerous settings. To practice as an. in California, you must be licensed by the California State Board of Registered Nursing (BRN). You must meet educational requirements, pass a criminal background check, and pass the national licensing examination. To apply for licensure:
Education. If you enroll in a full-time licensed practical nurse (LPN) training program, you may be prepared and qualified to take your licensing exam in as little as 9-12 months. These programs are available from many community colleges, vocational schools, and universities, and they may range from 43-78 credit hours. 
Get licensed. Registered nurses must have a nursing license. Take the National Council Licensure Examination-Registered Nurse (NCLEX-RN) once you have graduated from your accredited program and thus have completed the appropriate education requirements. This test is the nationally recognized licensing exam for registered nurses. 1 Associate's degree in nursing (ADN) . 2  This is the most common way to obtain a registered nursing license and involves a two-year program at a community or junior college. 3  Many students transition to BSN programs after having completed an ADN and holding an entry-level nursing position.
There are three major educational paths that can be followed to become a Registered Nurse. A student must successfully complete one of these degree programs to be eligible for the NCLEX-RN licensing examination. Once a student passes this exam they are able to practice as a Registered Nurse (RN).
The first requirement in becoming a registered nurse is to obtain the proper education. There are several different paths that can lead to licensure as an RN. Aspiring RNs may earn a diploma, an Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) or a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) . 