Any hamster regardless of its age, type, colour, or gender should Never bite. The only reason a hamster bites is simply because it has a bad temperament. The temperament of an animal will never be achieved by taming it. Temperament is hereditary and a temperament can be either aggressive or docile. A docile temperament is the number one priority when breeding hamsters.
If your hamster is biting you try washing your hands really good before attempting to handle your pet. The smell of food is definitely a trigger to their senses and they think, yumm food.. I have heard that male hamsters are more aggressive than female hamsters. My hamster is a male and he does bite from time to time.
Yes....Hamsters do bite but If you are gentle with the hamster then you should be fine, if the hamster is scared then they will bite. Dont put your finger through the bars of the cage cause they might think its food and bite your finger..
There are better things to chew on than a cage. hamster eating image by cat from Fotolia.com. If you've ever had a hamster, you've probably familiar with a couple of situations. The first is his chewing a hole in his cage to stage a daring escape and prompt a search and chase throughout the house. The second is his keeping you awake night after night with the cling-clang melody of his nocturnal cage-biting.
male hamsters do bite. females can bite if they are startled but  they are more likely not to bite. all hamsters boy or girl will bit  e if they are startled before you hold … them you have to rub their  back or head and then gently pick them up.    I hope I answered your question! .
male hamsters do bite. females can bite if they are startled but  they are more likely not to bite. all hamsters boy or girl will bit  e if they are startled before you hold … them you have to rub their  back or head and then gently pick them up.
Hamsters bite when they feel threatened. Usually they will warm up to you and become used to your voice, it takes a few days or sometimes a few weeks. If your hamster is bitin … g you try washing your hands really good before attempting to handle your pet.