The failure of the Strategic Hamlet and other counterinsurgency and pacification programs were causes that led the United States to decide to intervene in South Vietnam with air strikes and ground troops. The U.S. military also objected to the proposed focus of the program on the most populated areas of South Vietnam; the U.S. wished to focus on areas where communist influence was greatest. After compromises were made to secure U.S. agreement, the Strategic Hamlet Program began implementation in March 1962.
In November 1961, Sir Robert Thompson, a veteran of the Malayan counter-insurgency effort, now was head of the British Advisory Mission to South Vietnam, formally proposed to Diem a plan for pacification of the Delta, later known as the Strategic Hamlet Program. The Strategic Hamlets were constructed as a system in which each hamlet was connected to each other. When the first hamlets had been secured from the enemy, the next would be added and secured shortly after, expanding like the “oil blot”.
The Strategic Hamlet Program eventually failed becaUse of inadequate planning and co-. ordination, inadequate resources, an unrealistic timetable, problems with siting and. -onstruction, and inadequate and falsified evaluation procedures. vas a lack of commitment to the program, especially from President Diem. Over the period from 1961 to 1963 the Government of Vietnam. introduced the Strategic Hamlet Program, which was designed. to be the central part of a comprehensive plan to pacify. South Vietnam. Pacification was to be achieved by isolating. the rural population from the Viet Cong communist guerillas
The Strategic Hamlet Program was exposed as an almost complete failure in the aftermath of the November 1, 1963 coup that left Diem and his brother Nhu murdered. The U.S. military also objected to the proposed focus of the program on the most populated areas of South Vietnam; the U.S. wished to focus on areas where communist influence was greatest. After compromises were made to secure U.S. agreement, the Strategic Hamlet Program began implementation in March 1962.
Pagination or Media Count: 192. Abstract: Over the period form 1961 to 1963 the Government of Vietnam introduced the Strategic Hamlet Program, which was designed to be the central part of a comprehensive plan to pacify South Vietnam. Pacification was to be achieved by isolating the rural population from the Viet Cong communist guerrillas. 
The Stategic Hamlet Program was a failure, alienating more rural Vietnamese than it helped and contributing to the growth in influence of the Viet Cong. After President Ngo Dinh Diem was overthrown in a coup in November 1963, the program was cancelled. The U.S. military also objected to the proposed focus of the program on the most populated areas of South Vietnam; the U.S. wished to focus on areas where communist influence was greatest. After compromises were made to secure U.S. agreement, the Strategic Hamlet Program began implementation in March 1962.
troduced the Strategic Hamlet Program, which was designed to be the central part of a. comprehensive plan to pacify South Vietnam. lating the rural population from the Viet Cong communist guerrillas. Over the period from 1961 to 1963 the Government of Vietnam. introduced the Strategic Hamlet Program, which was designed. to be the central part of a comprehensive plan to pacify. South Vietnam. Pacification was to be achieved by isolating. the rural population from the Viet Cong communist gue
The Strategic Hamlet Program was a pacification effort established in 1962 to separate and protect the rural population of South Vietnam from the Viet Cong. 
In 1962, the government of South Vietnam, with advice and financing from the United States, began the implementation of the Strategic Hamlet Program. The strategy was to isolate the rural population from contact with and influence by the National Liberation Front (NLF) , more commonly known as the Viet Cong. The U.S. military also objected to the proposed focus of the program on the most populated areas of South Vietnam; the U.S. wished to focus on areas where communist influence was greatest. After compromises were made to secure U.S. agreement, the Strategic Hamlet Program began implementation in March 1962.