“I like to use a simple karanga for a pōwhiri, one that will welcome all iwi. You can add to that, depending on the occasion, to make it deeper and more picturesque but as kaikaranga you should always be mindful of people waiting. It is not about telling a whole story. But the protocol of karanga is facing challenges as it evolves in modern life. Traditionally viewed as a connection between the living and spiritual worlds, the karanga is steeped in tikanga and epitomises the mana wahine — the power of women within the marae.
1 As first-timers they all receive a formal welcome that begins with the spine-chilling wero (challenge by one of the local warriors) followed by a karanga (call of welcome by one of the local women). 2  Next time we are up front, doing the karanga, whaik rero, waiata etc. Example sentences. 1 
In most cases the karanga includes a welcome to a particular marae, both to the living manuhiri and to the spirits of the dead. The kaikaranga from the host marae starts proceedings by piercing the air with her call, delivering her greeting to those who have passed on, and the living, on one held breath. But the protocol of karanga is facing challenges as it evolves in modern life. Traditionally viewed as a connection between the living and spiritual worlds, the karanga is steeped in tikanga and epitomises the mana wahine — the power of women within the marae.
Kaikaranga from the visiting group – the kaiwhakautu – return the karanga on behalf of the manuhiri. Each group honours the other, weaving a continuous “spiritual rope” that “pulls” the manuhiri onto the marae. But the protocol of karanga is facing challenges as it evolves in modern life. Traditionally viewed as a connection between the living and spiritual worlds, the karanga is steeped in tikanga and epitomises the mana wahine — the power of women within
Pōwhiri – welcome ceremony/ritual of encounter. A pōwhiri encapsulates the formal welcome ceremony onto the marae, starting with the initial karanga (call) from the tangata whenua (people of the land, the hosts) right up to the sharing of kai. There are two main types of kawa observed during pōwhiri, and within this, several variations. They are tau utuutu (or tū mai, tū atu) and paeke: 1  Tau Utuutu. 2  A kaikōrero (speaker) on the tangata whenua side starts, followed by a speaker from the manuhiri (visitors).
A Maori ritual chant of welcome. Example sentences. 1  As first-timers they all receive a formal welcome that begins with the spine-chilling wero (challenge by one of the local warriors) followed by a karanga (call of welcome by one of the local women). 2  Next time we are up front, doing the karanga, whaik rero, waiata etc.
The karanga is an exchange between tangata whenua and manuhiri (visitors) to ascertain the nature of the visit and the visitors, thus providing the basis for the whaikōrero. It is also a chance for women well-versed in the art of karanga to express their own opinion on topical matters. Karanga. The most obvious public expression of mana wahine is the customary practice of karanga, the first cry of welcome on the marae. Dr Wi Repa, in an obituary for his wife in 1929, spoke of the inherent mana of the voice of women: ‘[N]o mua iho ano te mana o te reo o te wahine ...
Ka·ran·ga. n. pl. Karanga or Ka·ran·gas. 1. A member of a Bantu people inhabiting southeastern Zimbabwe and southern Mozambique. 
Secondary Navigation. The karanga is an exchange of calls that takes place during the time a visiting group moves onto the marae or into the formal meeting area. The karanga usually indicates the start of the pōwhiri (external link) (formal welcome ceremony). Carried out almost exclusively by women and in the Māori language, karanga are initiated by the hosts. The karanga generally begins with the first call (hosts) and a response (visitors). There is no restriction on how long the exchange lasts nor on the number of women who participate. Not all women are skilled in performing karanga so on any one occasion only a few women may karanga. The exchange generally lasts until the visitors have stopped momentarily in respect in front of the meeting house.
This article is about karanga, part of the powhiri, a Maori welcoming ceremony. For other uses of the word, see karanga (disambiguation). A karanga (call out, summon) is an element of cultural protocol of the New Zealand Māori people. It is an exchange of calls that forms part of the powhiri, a Māori welcoming ceremony. It takes place as a visiting group moves onto the marae or into the formal meeting area. 