Hereditary hemochromatosis is the most common genetic disorder affecting Canadians. One in nine people of mostly Northern European descent are carriers of the most common type of HHC and 1 in 300 are estimated to have two copies of the gene that puts them at risk for iron overload. Because early symptoms can be non-specific and attributed to many other causes, hemochromatosis can be difficult to diagnose until more extensive damage has occurred. Even then, hemochromatosis is often overlooked as the causative factor in an observable disease. Some early symptoms include: 1  chronic fatigue.
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) due to homozygosity for the C282Y mutation in the HFE gene is a common inherited iron overload disorder in whites of northern European descent. An additional variant HFE allele, His63Arg (H63D), may also contribute to iron overload in some cases. In this review, the terms HH and HFE-hemochromatosis refer to the autosomal-recessive disorder associated with homozygosity for the HFE C282Y allele.
Response to phlebotomy therapy in hemochromatosis. The target of phlebotomy is a ferritin level between 50 and 100 μg/L, a value that ensures the depletion of excess iron but leaves the subject with some iron reserve. An additional variant HFE allele, His63Arg (H63D), may also contribute to iron overload in some cases. In this review, the terms HH and HFE-hemochromatosis refer to the autosomal-recessive disorder associated with homozygosity for the HFE C282Y allele.
HH arthropathy is the symptom most affecting quality of life and can be debilitating. Genotype screening in large population studies has shown that the clinical penetrance of C282Y homozygosity is highly variable and can be very low, with up to 50% of women and 20% of men showing a silent phenotype. Referral of patients to the blood center for phlebotomy therapy and use of HH donor blood for transfusion standardizes treatment, minimizes treatment costs, and may benefit society as a whole. Physician practices should be amended such that HH subjects are more frequently referred to the blood center for therapy.
Iron is absorbed by the body, metabolized by the liver and converted to ferritin or hemosiderin. The liver then transports the necessary amount of iron to different parts of the body such as the heart and bone marrow. Unused iron is stored in the liver for emergency or future use. In a condition called hemochromatosis, the iron is excessively absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. This iron is then carried to the different organs of the body, specifically the liver, myocardium, testes, thyroid and pancreas. The frequency of symptomatic hemochromatosis in the United States is in about 50 to 80 people out of 10,000. It is more common in Caucasians and less common in African-Americans, Asian-Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and American-Indians.
Hemochromatosis: the new blood donor. Leitman SF. Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) due to homozygosity for the C282Y mutation in the HFE gene is a common inherited iron overload disorder in whites of northern European descent. Referral of patients to the blood center for phlebotomy therapy and use of HH donor blood for transfusion standardizes treatment, minimizes treatment costs, and may benefit society as a whole. Physician practices should be amended such that HH subjects are more frequently referred to the blood center for therapy.
Hepcidin deficiency, the hallmark of the disorder, leads to dysregulated intestinal iron absorption and progressive iron deposition in the liver, heart, skin, endocrine glands, and joints. Survival is normal if organ damage is prevented by early institution of phlebotomy therapy. Referral of patients to the blood center for phlebotomy therapy and use of HH donor blood for transfusion standardizes treatment, minimizes treatment costs, and may benefit society as a whole. Physician practices should be amended such that HH subjects are more frequently referred to the blood center for therapy.
Hepcidin deficiency, the hallmark of the disorder, leads to dysregulated intestinal iron absorption and progressive iron deposition in the liver, heart, skin, endocrine glands, and joints. Survival is normal if organ damage is prevented by early institution of phlebotomy therapy. An additional variant HFE allele, His63Arg (H63D), may also contribute to iron overload in some cases. In this review, the terms HH and HFE-hemochromatosis refer to the autosomal-recessive disorder associated with homozygosity for the HFE C282Y allele.
Iron Overload. Iron overload medically; Hemochromatosis is a relatively unknown disease mainly caused by a gene disorder, (HFE Gene) whereby the body cannot rid itself of excess iron and therefore deposits into tissues and organs. More symptoms now coming to light. Hereditary Hemochromatosis A surprisingly common, yet virtually unknown genetic disorder. Potentially fatal, easily detected and even though as yet not curable, it is treatable, even life saving if found and treated long before the devastating consequences begin.
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HHC), or iron overload, is an inherited disorder that causes the body to absorb two to three times the normal amount of iron. Over the years, the excess iron builds up in the vital organs, joints and tissues where it can cause a number of debilitating and potentially fatal conditions such as liver and heart disease, diabetes, impotence and arthritis.