Confidence votes 918. If this question is in reference to a drug test, your answer would be 3 to 4 days. Hydrocodone exhibits a complex pattern of metabolism including O-demethylation, N-demethylation and 6-keto reduction to the corresponding 6-(alpha)- and 6-(beta)-hydroxymetabolites. Regardless of how long you have used hydrocodone, it will only be detected in a urine test for up to 12 to 80 hours. A hair follicle test is good for 6 months. 10 people found this useful. Edit
While there is not a fixed answer for how long Vicodin stays in your system, the chemicals in the tablets generally stay in the system for four hours. However, traces of the drug can remain in your body for an estimated 72 hours. The drug can even remain in some people's systems for five days or longer. 
While the effects of Vicodin last around 4 hours, traces of the drug can remain in your system for up to 72 hours. In some adults you can still find traces of the drug in your system after 5 days. If you will be taking an examination to test for prescription drugs, you will need to be conscious of how long it will take for your body to clear signs of your Vicodin usage. Urine examinations can still detect Vicodin in the system after 72 hours.
Hydrocodone begins to work within 10 to 20 minutes of swallowing the pill. Its pain-relieving effects last 4 to 8 hours. Hydrocodone has a half-life of 3 to 4 hours; that’s how long it takes the body to eliminate half of the drug from the bloodstream. It takes several half-lives to eliminate all the hydrocodone. A small fraction may still be present in the blood a day or so after taking one pill
One dose of 5mg vicodin (hydrocodone) will stay in your system 3 to 7 days depending on body weight, metabolism, and tolerance to the drug. 2 people found this useful. Edit. 2 to 5 days depending on your usage. Opiates (heroin, morphine, Vicodin, oxycontin) take about 72 hours (3 days) to leave your system, but you might want to wait 5 or 6 days, just to be safe.
While you may not see traces of Vicodin specifically after a long period of time, the individual components of the drug may show up in examinations after the fact. Hydrocodone has a half-life of 3-4 hours, so it can take over a day before it is completely broken down and exits the bloodstream. If you will be taking an examination to test for prescription drugs, you will need to be conscious of how long it will take for your body to clear signs of your Vicodin usage. Urine examinations can still detect Vicodin in the system after 72 hours.
Four days. 2 to 5 days depending on your usage. Opiates (heroin, morphine, Vicodin, oxycontin) take about 72 hours (3 days) to leave your system, but you might want to wait 5 or 6 days, just to be safe. if I'm not mistaken it is in the category of Opiates, and i believe they take around 30 days to fade out completely