About Chile Map :- Chile is located on the southwestern coast of South America. The map of Chile shows the locations of different cities of the country situated in various corners. Chile map also provides a detailed locational information regarding the touristy places of the country. Buy Chile Maps. 
World map with Tahiti. (Click on Tahiti island for more information). French Polynesia is located in the south of the Pacific Ocean. It is located about 6.000 km east of Australia and 7.500 km west of Chile. A paradise earth isolated in the vastness of the ocean
Chile, the country with a narrow strip of land between North Pacific Ocean in the west and the Andes Mountain in the east is officially called the Republic of Chile. It is located in the southern part of South America covering a total area of 756, 102 sq. km. It is the thirty eighth largest country in the world, it also has 6435 km. long coastline. Chile is the longest north south trending countries of the world. Chile is also located in the Pacific Ring of Fire. Chile shares its land boundary with Argentina in the east, Bolivia in the north east and Peru in the north. Chile besides its mainland territory also has islands on the Pacific Ocean within its jurisdiction
Geography. Situated south of Peru and west of Bolivia and Argentina, Chile fills a narrow 2,880-mi (4,506 km) strip between the Andes and the Pacific. One-third of Chile is covered by the towering ranges of the Andes. 
Location of Santiago on a map. Santiago is the capital city of Chile. It has a population of 4,837,295, and is located on a latitue of -33.46 and longitude of -70.65. Santiago is also the political center of Chile, which is considered a Republic, and home to its Executive head of state. Chile became an independent state in 1818, after gaining its sovereignty from Spain. The population of Chile is 17,067,369 (2012) and the nation has a density of 23 people per square kilometer. The currency of Chile is the Unidad de Fomento (CLF).
The Atacama Desert (Spanish: Desierto de Atacama) is a plateau in South America, covering a 1,000-kilometre (600 mi) strip of land on the Pacific coast, west of the Andes mountains. It is the driest non-polar desert in the world. 
Located in the continent of South America, Chile covers 743,812 square kilometers of land and 12,290 square kilometers of water, making it the 38th largest nation in the world with a total area of 756,102 square kilometers. Chile became an independent state in 1818, after gaining its sovereignty from Spain. The population of Chile is 17,067,369 (2012) and the nation has a density of 23 people per square kilometer. The currency of Chile is the Unidad de Fomento (CLF).
The given Chile location map shows that Chile is located at the western part of South America continent. Chile map also shows that the shape of the country is very unique in the world. It has long and narrow shape similar to chilli. The country is located between the Andes Mountains from the east and Pacific Ocean from the west. However, Map of Chile also depicts that it shares its international boundaries with Peru in the north, Bolivia in the North West, and Argentina from throughout the east. 