Hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids are engorged, often painful veins located in your anus. Hemorrhoids can build up in 2 different places. There are 2 distinct branches of veins that drain the blood from the lower rectum and anus. The internal veins can become swollen to form internal hemorrhoids. Internal hemorrhoids, unless they are severe, cannot be seen or felt, unlike external hemorrhoids.
External hemorrhoids are located underneath the skin that surrounds the anus. They can be felt when they swell and may cause itching, pain, or bleeding with a bowel movement. A thrombosed external hemorrhoid occurs when blood within the vein clots, and may cause significant pain. The veins become swollen due to increased pressure within them, usually from constipation or profuse diarrhea, and during pregnancy because of the pressure of the enlarged uterus. Internal hemorrhoids are located in the inside lining of the rectum and cannot be felt.
Hemorrhoids are clumps of blood vessels of the rectum. The hemorrhoidal veins are located in the lowest area of the rectum just above the anus. Sometimes they swell when the veins enlarge and their walls become stretched, thin, and irritated by passing bowel movements. Symptoms of Prolapsed Internal Hemorrhoids. Prolapse of an internal hemorrhoid occurs when the internal hemorrhoids swell and extend from their location in the rectum through the anus. In the anal canal, the hemorrhoid is exposed to the trauma of passing stool, particularly hard stools associated with constipation.
Hemorrhoids (US English) or haemorrhoids UK /ˈhɛmərɔɪdz/ are vascular structures in the anal canal. In their normal state, they are cushions that help with stool control. They become pathological or piles when swollen or inflamed. At this point the condition is technically known as hemorrhoidal disease. The signs and symptoms of hemorrhoids depend on the type present. Internal hemorrhoids usually present with painless rectal bleeding, while external hemorrhoids may produce few symptoms or if thrombosed significant pain and swelling in the area of the anus. 
Hemorrhoid Overview. Hemorrhoids are enlarged veins located in the lower part of the rectum and the anus. The veins become swollen due to increased pressure within them, usually from constipation or profuse diarrhea, and during pregnancy because of the pressure of the enlarged uterus. Internal hemorrhoids are located in the inside lining of the rectum and cannot be felt.
Hemorrhoids occur when the veins of the rectum or anus become inflamed because of too much straining in the area. Depending on where your hemorrhoids are located, they are considered “internal” or “external.” External hemorrhoids are usually found beneath the skin that surrounds the anus.
External hemorrhoids are located underneath the skin that surrounds the anus (lower in the anus than internal hemorrhoids). They can be felt when they swell, and may cause itching, pain, or bleeding with a bowel movement. Symptoms of Prolapsed Internal Hemorrhoids. Prolapse of an internal hemorrhoid occurs when the internal hemorrhoids swell and extend from their location in the rectum through the anus. In the anal canal, the hemorrhoid is exposed to the trauma of passing stool, particularly hard stools associated with constipation.
Definition of hemorrhoid. Hemorrhoids (Piles) are blood vessels located in the smooth muscles of the walls of the rectum and anus. They are a normal part of the anatomy and are located at the junction where small arteries merge into veins. 
Hemorrhoids are swollen veins located around the anus or in the lower rectum. According to the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons, millions of Americans suffer with hemorrhoids (ASCRS). There are two types of hemorrhoids, internal and external. Symptoms of hemorrhoids include: 1  extreme itching around the anus. 2  irritation and pain around the anus. 3  itchy lump located near your anus. 4  fecal leakage. 5  painful bowel movement. 6  blood on your tissue after having a
The location of internal hemorrhoids is usually within the walls inside the rectum and anus. Specifically internal hemorrhoids may be found either within the passageway of the anus or where the anal canal meets the rectum. The following is a list of hemorrhoid remedies that you can try to reduce the occurrence and symptoms of hemorrhoids: 1  Sclerotherapy which helps in the reduction of the overall size and pressure exerted by hemorrhoids. 2  In this remedy, a chemical solution is injected into the hemorrhoidal tissue.