War Map Publishing Company. 1898Library of Congress In April 1898 Senator Henry M. Teller (Colorado) proposed an amendment to the U.S. declaration of war against Spain which proclaimed that the United States would not establish permanent control over Cuba. In 1901, Secretary of War Elihu Root drafted a set of articles as guidelines for future United StateCuban relations. This set of articles became known as the Platt Amendment, after Senator Orville Platt of Connecticut, who presented it.
Teller and Platt Amendments. In April 1898 Senator Henry M. Teller (Colorado) proposed an amendment to the U.S. declaration of war against Spain which proclaimed that the United States would not establish permanent control over Cuba. True to the letter of the Teller Amendment, after Spanish troops left the island in 1898, the United States occupied Cuba until 1902. The Teller Amendment was succeeded by the Platt Amendment introduced by Senator Orville Platt (R-Connecticut) in February 1901.
True to the letter of the Teller Amendment, after Spanish troops left the island in 1898, the United States occupied Cuba until 1902. In 1901, Secretary of War Elihu Root drafted a set of articles as guidelines for future United StateCuban relations. This set of articles became known as the Platt Amendment, after Senator Orville Platt of Connecticut, who presented it.
An opponent of American imperialism, he authored the Teller Amendment of 1898 -- attached to the war resolution against Spain -- in an attempt to foster self-government in Cuba. Following his final term in the Senate, Teller served on the National Monetary Commission before it was disbanded in 1912. 
However, under the Platt Amendment, crafted in 1901 by U.S. Secretary of War Elihu Root to replace the Teller Amendment, important decisions of the government of Cuba remained subject to override by the United States. The Spanish-American War lasted from April 25 to August 12, 1898, and it ended with the Treaty of Paris on December 10, 1898. As a result, Spain lost control over the remains of its overseas empire consisting of Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Philippine islands, Guam and other islands.
Off-site search results for Platt Amendment: Giving America Oversight in Cuba ... Teller and Platt Amendments. The Teller Amendment was succeeded by the Platt Amendment introduced by Senator Orville Platt (R-Connecticut) in February 1901. It allowed the United States the right to intervene for the preservation of Cuban independence, the maintPlatt Amendment introduced by Senator Orville Platt (R-Connecticut) in February 1901. It allowed the United States the right to intervene for the preservation of Cuban independence, the maintenance of a ..
(see the de Lome lôme) Letter In april of, 1898 Senator Henry. M, teller Of, colorado proposed an amendment to The United’ states declaration of war Against, spain which stated that The United states would not establish permanent control Over. cuba The Platt Amendment stipulated the conditions for U.S. intervention in Cuban affairs and permitted the United States to lease or buy lands for the purpose of the establishing naval bases (the main one was Guantanamo Guantánamo) bay and coaling stations In. cuba
This set of articles became known as the Platt Amendment, after Senator Orville Platt of Connecticut, who presented it. Platt, 1827–1905, was a U.S. Senator from 1879 to 1905 and influenced the decision to annex Hawaii and occupy the Philippines. He sponsored this amendment as a rider attached to the Army Appropriations Bill of 1901. Cubans reluctantly included the amendment, which virtually made Cuba a U.S. protectorate, in their constitution. The Platt Amendment was also incorporated in a permanent treaty between the United States and Cuba. Citation: Treaty Between the United States and the Republic of Cuba Embodying the Provisions Defining Their Future Relations as Contained in the Act of Congress Approved March 2, 1901, signed 05/22/1903; General Records of the United States Government, 1778 - 2006, RG 11, National Archives. How to use citation info.
(see the de Lome lôme) Letter In april of, 1898 Senator Henry. M, teller Of, colorado proposed an amendment to The United’ states declaration of war Against, spain which stated that The United states would not establish permanent control Over. cuba Citation: Treaty Between the United States and the Republic of Cuba Embodying the Provisions Defining Their Future Relations as Contained in the Act of Congress Approved March 2, 1901, signed 05/22/1903; General Records of the United States Government, 1778 - 2006, RG 11, National Archives. How to use citation info.