Such is the diversity of tapas that in bars all over Spain and the world you can order virtually anything that takes your fancy. From an exotically-flavored, spicy Moorish dish to a simple bowl of olives, the choice is entirely yours. But oh, my friend, what a choice it is! The Origins. The origins of tapas are the subject of many an argument in the local bar. (It seems to depend on which area of Spain you are from!) It is said that the first Tapas was simply a hunk of bread which was placed over the glass to keep the flies out. Hence the word ‘tapas’ was born.
Tapas is simply a small snack or appetizer taken with a drink or two at lunchtime or in the early evening before the main meal. The Spanish generally won’t drink without eating something and originally these small snacks were given free to anyone who bought a drink. The Origins. The origins of tapas are the subject of many an argument in the local bar. (It seems to depend on which area of Spain you are from!) It is said that the first Tapas was simply a hunk of bread which was placed over the glass to keep the flies out. Hence the word ‘tapas’ was born.
Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. Tapas bars are restaurants which serve tapas, a Spanish style of food. Often thought of as appetizers, tapas are different than appetizers; instead of preceding a meal, tapas are small portions of food served as an accompaniment to wine. 
Tapas Valencia is a Spanish tapas restaurant. Tapas are as a wide variety of small plates, finger foods, and appetizers. Tapas are not a particular type of food, but rather a style of dining. The entire meal consists of these smaller dishes that are shared around the table, encouraging guests to order many of the different dishes.
1 Tapas is not a particular type of food. 2  Anything can be tapas-paella, croquettes, ham and cheese on toast, truly anything. 3  As long as it is small and served with your drink (either free or at a surcharge), it is tapas. A ' tapa ' is a 'lid' or 'cover'. In the early days of tapas, a slice of cheese or ham was given with your drink and placed over your drink. There is some debate over why exactly this was done: 1  To keep out the flies. 2  To hide the smell of the bad wine. 3  To keep the wind from blowing your drink everywhere.
The word ‘tapas’ is synonymous with Spanish cuisine. Spanish tapas are usually deemed as a wide variety of small plates whether delicious snacks, finger foods and appetizers or just a small portion of a special dish in Spanish cuisine. As long as it is still a ‘little dish’ served with your drink, it is tapas. But whichever way you prefer these authentic appetizers and finger foods – tapas style food is best served with an early evening drink among friends and lively company.
Unlike their cousins around the world, tapas are more than just finger foods and appetizers – a tapa is not a particular type of food, but rather a way of eating it. Tapas is best defined as the tradition of enjoying small portions of different appetizers and finger foods. In addition, tapas are neither starters nor a main course. If you start eating tapas, you don’t stop eating these authentic finger foods and appetizers until you’re full. As long as it is still a ‘little dish’ served with your drink, it is tapas. But whichever way you prefer these authentic appetizers and finger foods – tapas style food is best served with an early evening drink among friends and lively company.
Many Americans have a taste for Spanish food, so knowing what is a tapas restaurant is has become a neccesity. Tapas restaurants are known for serving small. often bite size, snacks that can be consumed hot or cold, and similar to appetizers. In Spain tapas restaurants are a part of Spanish culture. In the tapas restaurants of today the whole meal is a combination of bite sized snacks, intended to have less concentration on food and encourage conversation between patrons.. Every town in Spain has tapa bars or stalls, ready to serve food and good convers
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Tapas-style dining is where you pay a fortune and you never get enough to eat because there is always one person in the group who you are sharing with that is a complete hog. Here is my decree: one plate per person, containg the food of that persoins choice-period, end of story. Don't eat mine and I wont eat yours