Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Avery and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Avery and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
Avery /av-ery/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more commonly as girls' name Avery) is pronounced AY-vree. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Avery is elf or magical counsel. Transferred use of the surname, which originated in the Middle Ages from a Norman French pronunciation of Alfred. Philanthropist Avery Fisher. Kreatif forms: Acery, Avear, Avedy. 
French Meaning: The name Avery is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Avery is: Rules with elf-wisdom. American Meaning: The name Avery is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Avery is: Rules with elf-wisdom. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Avery is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Avery is: Rules the elves. English Meaning: The name Avery is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Avery is: Counselor; sage; wise.
Meaning of Avery. French name. In French, the name Avery means-Rules with elf-wisdom.. Other origins for the name Avery include-French, English, English, English.The name Avery is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-Rules with elf-wisdom
Meaning of Avery. English name. In English, the name Avery means-nobility. Other origins for the name Avery include-English, French.The name Avery is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-nobility. Origin-England.
Look up Avery in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Avery is a given name taken from Avery, an English surname that was itself derived from an Old French version of the name Alfred. The meaning of the name is derived from the Old English words aelf, meaning elf, and raed, meaning counsel
As a baby boy name, Avery is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 226 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) . In 2009, the name Avery fell in popularity and moved down the USA Top 1000 charts in Year 2009, by 7 places. For the Year 2009, it ranked 223 in the Top 1000 charts. 