• Two main layers 1) epidermis and 2) dermis • The hypodermis is found below the dermis and is loose connective tissue containing varying amounts of fat. This layer connects the skin to other tissues and organs. 1) Epidermis = outer layer • Stratified squamous keratinized... temperature, touch and pain. Cell P2 – Describe the four main tissue types in the body Inside the body, there are four mains types of tissue which include the Epithelial, Muscular, Nervous and Connective. Tissues are known as groups of cells which have a certain structure to retain a specific job.
Types of epithelial tissue Connective tissue-Connective tissues are fibrous tissues. They are comprised of cells separated by non-living material, which is called extracellular matrix. Connective tissue holds other tissues together such as in the formation of organs, and has the ability to stretch... Types of epithelial tissue Connective tissue-Connective ... Cell P2 – Describe the four main tissue types in the body Inside the body, there are four mains types of tissue which include the Epithelial, Muscular, Nervous and Connective. Tissues are known as groups of cells which have a certain structure to retain a specific job.
Usually this material consists of connective tissue fibers, and is what gives the connective tissue its strength. Connective tissues are used to connect tissues and organs to each other. Adipose, a connective tissue, connects the epidermis (part of the epithelial tissues aka. skin) to underlying tissues. They are not tightly packed. There are six different connective tissues: Blood, Bone, Adipose (Fat), Cartilage, Nerve, and loose connective tissue. Each having their own characteristics.
Connective tissue is the tough tissue that helps to create structure in an animal. Thus, it is an important component of the bone, muscles, joints, and skin, and blood cells are specialized connective tissue. There is a lot of intercellular material in connective tissue. Adipose, a connective tissue, connects the epidermis (part of the epithelial tissues aka. skin) to underlying tissues. They are not tightly packed. There are six different connective tissues: Blood, Bone, Adipose (Fat), Cartilage, Nerve, and loose connective tissue. Each having their own characteristics.
Collagen is the fibrous protein constituent of skin, cartilage, bone, and other connective tissue. Collagen is the principal constituent of the fiber-network layer of our skin. More than a third of the body's protein is collagen, and it can account for an even higher percentage in particular parts of the body. Skin is the body's largest organ. It comprises three layers: the epidermis, the dermis and the subcutaneous layer. The epidermis is the outermost layer of skin, composed of cells called epithelial cells. The dermis, the layer underneath the epidermis, contains blood vessels, lymphatic tissue, nerves, sweat glands, hair follicles and sebaceous glands-glands that produce and secrete oil to protect against bacteria. The third layer, the subcutaneous layer, is a supporting layer of fatty tissue
1 The epidermis is the epithelial tissue layer of skin. 2  Hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and sweat glands are epithelial invaginations from the epidermis. 3  The dermis is the connective tissue layer of skin. 4  Embedded within the dermis are hair follicles and sweat glands as well as blood vessels and sensory nerve endings. The skin has two principal layers. 1  The epidermis is the epithelial tissue layer of skin. 2  Hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and sweat glands are epithelial invaginations from the epidermis. 3  The dermis is the connective tissue layer of skin.
Structure of skin. The bulk of the skin consists of two types of tissue: epidermis, the epithelium on the surface; and dermis, the underlying connective tissue. Subcutaneous tissue (a.k.a. hypodermis) attaches the skin to the underlying organs. We will consider it with the