Best Answer: Bunny Marie-- It is hard to compare the pomegranate taste to any one fruit or vegetable to me it has a taste all it's own. But it has a very pleasing taste. I like it on dry breakfast cereal with milk rice or oatmeal with or without milk. I even Enjoy the pomegranate seed by there self just pop them in my mouth and chew them up and enjoy the flavor.
· just now. Report Abuse. They taste like pomegranates! Basically the whole fruit is nothing but seeds. You can eat the hard part of the seed but it is bitter and hard to chew, we just mush the seeds around and get the juicy part off and spit out the white part. Kim S · 8 years ago. Pomegranates taste good to me but I'm not sure if you will like it. Yes you can eat the seeds, I'm not sure if they're in the berry family and you can buy them anytime in a store. Sakura · 8 years ago.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Bunny Marie-- It is hard to compare the pomegranate taste to any one fruit or vegetable to me it has a taste all it's own. Kind of sweet kind of sour or tart. But it has a very pleasing taste. I like it on dry breakfast cereal with milk rice or oatmeal with or without milk. I even Enjoy the pomegranate seed by there self just pop them in my mouth and chew them up and enjoy the flavor.
What does pomegranate molasses taste like?... It has that deep, grown-up flavor similar to espresso that makes food taste more sophisticated. But it's not bitter and that makes it totally different in my eyes than regular molasses, which I haven't managed to love yet even though I tried hard.. 
They don’t require cooking or preparation, although you can if you wish. How it tastes: The pomegranate tastes sweet and tart. The seeds of the pomegranate fruit are sweet, juicy and bursting with flavor. They can be added to both savoury and dessert style foods and add a unique and tantalising flavor to any dish. Tips: Promegranate juice is known to be a strong staining agent which is why it is used as a natural dye by many different cultures. Other Uses: The fruit juice of the pomegranate is often mixed with honey and given for memory loss. Because of its ability to aid memory retention, it’s also a great tool for those studying or who need to remember lots of facts. The powdered roots of the plant can also be given with lime water to expel worms. 
Pomegranate Molasses is a thick, dark-brown coloured syrup made from a tart variety of pomegranates, whose juice is boiled down. It doesn't taste like molasses, a better word in English would have been just plain syrup.. It can, though, be can be as thick as molasses. 
Pomegranate is a delicious and exotic fruit that is often touted for its health benefits. Adding pomegranate to your everyday meals is a great way to add more fiber, potassium, and Vitamin C to your diet. 