The variable region is further subdivided into hypervariable (HV) and framework (FR) regions. Hypervariable regions have a high ratio of different amino acids in a given position, relative to the most common amino acid in that position. Within light and heavy chains, three hypervariable regions exist  HV 1, 2 and 3. The variable region includes the ends of the light and heavy chains. Treating the antibody with a protease can cleave this region, producing Fab or fragment antigen binding that include the variable ends of an antibody.
A hypervariable region (HVR) is a location within nuclear DNA or the D-loop of mitochondrial DNA in which base pairs of nucleotides repeat (in the case of nuclear DNA) or have substitutions (in the case of mitochondrial DNA). Changes or repeats in the hypervariable region are highly polymorphic. HVR1 is considered a low resolution region and HVR2 is considered a high resolution region. Getting HVR1 and HVR2 DNA tests can help determine one's haplogroup. HVR1 locations are numbered 16001-16568.
The framework regions form β-sheets that provide the structural scaffolding to project these hypervariable region loops. CDRs 1 and 2 are encoded by the V gene segment. In heavy chains, CDR3 is encoded by part of the V H gene segment, the D H gene segment, and part of the JH gene segment (Figure). When the light and heavy chains join, the hypervariable regions from each chain form a single unified surface, with the CDR3 in the center, surrounded by the other CDRs. Thus, the antigen specificity of an antibody is based on the hypervariable regions of both light and heavy chains.
In antibodies, hypervariable regions form the antigen-binding site and are found on both light and heavy chains. They also contribute to the specificity of each antibody. In a variable region, the 3 H V segments of each heavy or light chain fold together at the N-terminus to form an antigen binding pocket. HVR1 is considered a low resolution region and HVR2 is considered a high resolution region. Getting HVR1 and HVR2 DNA tests can help determine one's haplogroup. HVR1 locations are numbered 16001-16568.
There are two mitochondrial hypervariable regions used in human mitochondrial genealogical DNA testing. HVR1 is considered a low resolution region and HVR2 is considered a high resolution region. Getting HVR1 and HVR2 DNA tests can help determine one's haplogroup. HVR1 locations are numbered 16001-16568.
Hypervariable Region (HVR-1, HVR-2). Specific regions of the mtDNA that do not code for protein. In humans, the HVR region typically contains a large number of mutations which can be used to derive ancestry. The entire mtDNA is 16,569 base pairs in length. The HVR-1 region is found within base pairs 16001 to 16569, and the HVR-2 region is found between base pairs 1 to 574.
Definition of HYPERVARIABLE. : relating to or being any of the relatively short extremely variable polypeptide chain segments in the light chain or heavy chain of an antibody; also: relating to, containing, or being a highly variable nucleotide sequence. ADVERTISEMENT. adjective hy·per·vari·able \-ˈver-ē-ə-bəl, -ˈvar-\. Tweet