A xanthine oxidase inhibitor is any substance that inhibits the activity of xanthine oxidase, an enzyme involved in purine metabolism. Purine analogues include allopurinol, oxypurinol, and tisopurine. Others include febuxostat, topiroxostat, and inositols (phytic acid and myo-inositol). In experiments, numerous natural products have been found to inhibit xanthine oxidase in vitro or in model animals (mice, rats).
Xanthine oxidase (EC 1.1.3.22) and xanthine dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.204) belong to the molybdenum hydroxylase flavoprotein family; they represent different forms of the same gene product. Xanthine oxidoreductase activity is rate-limiting in purine catabolism. The main active center of the molybdoenzyme xanthine oxidase is a molybdopterin buried in a cavity. One possible mechanism of inhibition is the attraction of an inhibitor molecule inside the cavity. It is important to understand the mechanisms of the enzyme inhibition to help in the search of new inhibitors.
a flavoprotein containing molybdenum; an oxidoreductase catalyzing the reaction of xanthine, O 2, and H 2 O to produce urate and superoxide. Also oxidizes hypoxanthine, some other purines and pterins, and aldehydes. A lower rate of oxidation is observed in patients with molybdenum cofactor deficiency. xanthine oxidase. key enzyme in the pathway for purine breakdown. Catalyzes the conversion of hypoxanthine to xanthine and then to uric acid. Generates hydrogen peroxide, which can be a generator of free radicals in biological systems through reactions with superoxide ions.
Xanthine oxidase (XO or XOA) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chain reactions of hypoxanthine oxidizing to xanthine and xanthine oxidizing to uric acid and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Oxidation requires the addition of oxygen and water. Xanthine oxidase is mainly produced and located in the liver. Someone with a deficiency of XO should drink large amounts of water to help the kidneys. People suffering with a kidney stone may experience blood in their urine. When the liver is damaged, the hepatic cells release xanthine oxidase into the blood.
In humans, inhibition of xanthine oxidase reduces the production of uric acid, and several medications that inhibit xanthine oxidase are indicated for treatment of hyperuricemia and related medical conditions including gout. Xanthine oxidase inhibitors are being investigated for management of reperfusion injury. Purine analogues include allopurinol, oxypurinol, and tisopurine. Others include febuxostat, topiroxostat, and inositols (phytic acid and myo-inositol). In experiments, numerous natural products have been found to inhibit xanthine oxidase in vitro or in model animals (mice, rats).
Xanthine oxidase (XO, sometimes 'XAO') is a form of xanthine oxidoreductase, a type of enzyme that generates reactive oxygen species. These enzymes catalyze the oxidation of hypoxanthine to xanthine and can further catalyze the oxidation of xanthine to uric acid. Xanthine oxidase is a superoxide-producing enzyme found normally in serum and the lungs, and its activity is increased during influenza A infection. During severe liver damage, xanthine oxidase is released into the blood, so a blood assay for XO is a way to determine if liver damage has happened.
1 Xanthine oxidase can also act on certain other purines, pterins, and aldehydes. 2  For example, it efficiently converts 1-methylxanthine (a metabolite of caffeine) to 1-methyluric acid, but has little activity on 3-methylxanthine. Xanthine oxidase is a superoxide-producing enzyme found normally in serum and the lungs, and its activity is increased during influenza A infection. During severe liver damage, xanthine oxidase is released into the blood, so a blood assay for XO is a way to determine if liver damage has happened.
Xanthine oxidase inhibitors are of two kinds: purine analogues and others. Purine analogues include allopurinol, oxypurinol, and tisopurine. Others include febuxostat, topiroxostat, and inositols (phytic acid and myo-inositol). In experiments, numerous natural products have been found to inhibit xanthine oxidase in vitro or in model animals (mice, rats).
Xanthine oxidase is defined as an enzyme activity (EC 1.17.3.2). Xanthine oxidase is a superoxide-producing enzyme found normally in serum and the lungs, and its activity is increased during influenza A infection. During severe liver damage, xanthine oxidase is released into the blood, so a blood assay for XO is a way to determine if liver damage has happened.