Cardiac ablation is sometimes done through open-heart surgery, but it's often done using catheters, making the procedure less invasive and shortening recovery times. 1  Why it's done. Cardiac ablation works by scarring or destroying tissue in your heart that triggers an abnormal heart rhythm. In some cases, ablation prevents abnormal electrical signals from traveling through your heart and, thus, stops the arrhythmia.
1 Catheter ablation is a low-risk procedure that is successful in about 90 percent of the people who have it. 2  This procedure takes place in a special hospital room called an electrophysiology (EP) lab or a cardiac catheterization (cath) lab. 3  It takes 2 to 4 hours. 1 Before you leave the hospital, the nurse will give you written instructions about what to do at home. 2  Aspirin is often prescribed for 2 to 4 weeks to minimize risk of clot formation at ablation sites. 3  Don’t drive for 24 hours after you leave the hospital.
Cardiac ablation is a procedure that can correct heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias). Ablation usually uses long, flexible tubes (catheters) inserted through a vein in your groin and threaded to your heart to correct structural problems in your heart that cause an arrhythmia. Cardiac ablation works by scarring or destroying tissue in your heart that triggers an abnormal heart rhythm. In some cases, ablation prevents abnormal electrical signals from traveling through your heart and, thus, stops the arrhythmia.
When done by a doctor with plenty of radiofrequency experience, chances of treatment success are good. Radiofrequency closure works well in about 97 out of 100 people who have it. That means it doesn't work well in 3 out of 100 people. 1  Pain after treatment is typically less after ablation than after vein surgery. 2  After 2 years or more, results from ablation are generally as good as from vein surgery. 3  Veins that do not close are treated again.
Fortunately, radiofrequency ablation works well, is minimally invasive, and usually lasts for at least 6 to 12 months. In the case of low back pain, I target medial branch nerves of the lumbar spine with radiofrequency energy. 
1 Catheter ablation destroys the tissue. 2  Catheter ablation is a low-risk procedure that is successful in about 90 percent of the people who have it. 3  This procedure takes place in a special hospital room called an electrophysiology (EP) lab or a cardiac catheterization (cath) lab. 4  It takes 2 to 4 hours. 1 Before you leave the hospital, the nurse will give you written instructions about what to do at home. 2  Aspirin is often prescribed for 2 to 4 weeks to minimize risk of clot formation at ablation sites. 3  Don’t drive for 24 hours after you leave the hospital.
If the first procedure doesn't get rid of atrial fibrillation completely, you may need to have it done a second time. Repeated ablations have a higher chance of success. Research shows that a second ablation is needed in 20 to 40 people out of 100. This means that 60 to 80 out of 100 people don't need another ablation. You and your doctor can check a few things to see if ablation is a good choice for you. These things include: 1  What type of atrial fibrillation you have (paroxysmal or persistent). 2  How bad your symptoms are. 3  If you have a problem with the structure of your heart.
Radiofrequency ablation is a procedure using radio waves or electric current to generate sufficient heat to interrupt nerve conduction on a semi-permanent basis. The nerves are usually blocked for 6-9 months, although it may last as short as 3 months or as long at 18 months or longer. How long will the effects of the radiofrequency ablation last? If successful, the effects of the radiofrequency ablation can last from 3-18 months, with a typical range of 6-9 months.
After an ablation, you can still have arrythmias for 30 to 90 days while your heart heals, and although I have had some, it is not anywhere near what I had before the ablation, but I still have to remind myself that it's not life threatening. And my surgeon said he is 95% sure he has got rid of my tachycardia. I am feeling well, and after ablation you can go back to work after a week after you have your ablation. I had my ablation 2 days ago, but they have damaged a nerve and the inner thigh is numb at the moment, but hey I can live with that :D.