Zydeco Music. Zydeco is a popular accordion-based musical genre-the blues and dance music of Louisiana Creoles, the French-speaking blacks of the prairies of south-central and southwest Louisiana. Contrary to popular belief, it is not Cajun in origin. Rather, zydeco is the music of south Louisiana s Creoles of Color, who borrowed many of zydeco s defining elements from Cajun music. (In turn, Cajun music borrowed many of its traits from Creole music.).
Like the people, Creole food is a blend of the various cultures of New Orleans including Italian, Spanish, African, German, Caribbean, Native American, and Portuguese, to name a few. Creole cuisine is thought of as a little higher brow or aristocratic compare to Cajun. A vastly simplified way to describe the two cuisines is to deem Creole cuisine as “city food” while Cajun cuisine is often referred to as “country food.” While many of the ingredients in Cajun and Creole dishes are similar, the real difference between the two styles is the people behind these famous cuisines.
It is quite difficult to find the difference between Zydeco and Cajun music for those who are listening to them for the first time as zydeco was considered as a derivative of the Cajun music. They are both considered as roots of American Music. Zydeco is mainly making use of a button accordion or piano accordion. On the other hand, Cajun makes use of the Cajun accordion. Zydeco influences the hip-hop, R&B, reggae and soul genre, while Cajun influences pop music. While zydeco uses multiple notes of the accordion. Cajun uses only a single note
Musically, Louisiana has spurred three different movements: Cajun music, Creole music, and Zydeco music. So what are the differences between these Louisiana-style music varieties? Where the term came from is unclear. Instruments in Zydeco bands often include the accordion, modified washboard (a frottoir) , electric guitar, bass, and drums. You’ll see and hear all three styles of music at the Simi Valley Cajun & Blues Music Festival, taking place in Simi Valley, California.
3.Zydeco’s accordion is usually not diatonic whereas Cajun’s accordion is usually diatonic. 4.Zydeco is comparable to what pop music is whereas Cajun is like waltz and jazz. 5.The instruments used in Zydeco music are the washboard, wind instruments and accordion. Cajun music makes use of the accordion and fiddle and sometimes the metal triangle. Zydeco Vs Cajun Music. Zydeco music and Cajun music are often used as similar terms to denote a broad range of music style. However, it must be noted that these two music brands are entirely different from each other, although their sound is really not that too far apart
Cajun is a broader term between the two since zydeco is a derivative of the Cajun music. Cajun was initially a hardcore ballad until it evolved while zydeco was made for dance halls. Zydeco is mainly making use of a button accordion or piano accordion. On the other hand, Cajun makes use of the Cajun accordion. Zydeco influences the hip-hop, R&B, reggae and soul genre, while Cajun influences pop music. While zydeco uses multiple notes of the accordion. Cajun uses only a single note of the accordion.
Advertisements. im very interested about Louisiana culture/history, but what is the difference between the people is cajun people just french and creole is black, a french someone tell me and the zydeco music is interesting. 12-02-2011, 06:22 AM. 
Zydeco music is distinct from Cajun music in the sense that there is a constant returning rhythm to it. This type of music originated somewhere in Southwestern Louisiana dominated by only one single chord. Zydeco makes use of various instruments that may include a washboard and wind instruments. Zydeco Vs Cajun Music. Zydeco music and Cajun music are often used as similar terms to denote a broad range of music style. However, it must be noted that these two music brands are entirely different from each other, although their sound is really not that too far apart
Answer: Many people, when hearing Louisiana-style music with accordion, simply think Zydeco! However, Cajun Music and Zydeco are actually quite different. Cajun History Primer: Let's start with a quick history lesson: the Cajun people of Louisiana left France to settle what is now Nova Scotia.