Other benefits of a salary vs. hourly wage usually include more vacation time, a 401k plan and a higher hourly rate based upon a forty hour work week. Please note that these benefits depend solely upon your employer. However, every employer offers some type of incentive package for becoming a salary employee. On the downside, the benefits of salary vs. hourly may not seem worth it if you are asked to work more than forty hours per week. Employers expect salaried employees to work longer hours whenever necessary.
No Pay For Extra Work. An employee who is classified as non-exempt and paid hourly gets additional pay if he works more than 40 hours in one week. Any hours over 40 are paid at one and a half times his regular rate of pay. A salaried employee, however, does not get paid overtime. Knowing Your Pay. One advantage to being paid a set salary is that you know exactly how much you will be paid each week, month or year. Because your income does not vary from week to week or month to month, it can be easier for you to do your personal budgeting as well as retirement and tax planning.
The fact remains though that even when salaried my pay gets docked the equivalent hourly rate which seems to go against the entire idea of salary, that you are paid a fixed amount regardless of if you work 20 hours a week or 50 hours a week as you are paid for work not hours. However, there doesn't seem to be any benefit to the employee for being on salary. For example, if I miss a day of work my pay is docked, but if I work 10 extra hours during the week I get no benefit at all since I'm exempt and the company doesn't have to pay overtime.
2. The company includes benefits as part of overall compensation. According to Truitt, Your base salary is the combination of your benefits plus your base salary. In rare cases, a company will pay you what you were hoping in base salary, in addition to offering a terrific benefits package. However, more times than not, benefits will be counted as a certain portion of your overall compensation package..
Many hourly jobs pay as well or more than salaried jobs, but if your job doesn’t pay enough, then looking for a salaried job might be necessary. Of course, there are also pros and cons to salaried jobs. Although you might have a more consistent paycheck, you also might have to work late (or at home) more often. If you do have to work overtime, you can expect to get paid extra for it. According to NOLO, the overtime premium is usually 50% of the employee’s normal pay, so hourly employees often earn an additional 50% during their overtime hours.
Hourly, non-exempt employees, on the other hand, receive one and a half times their hourly rate for working more than 40 hours per week. Nevertheless, the exempt employee who prefers a salary wage sees the benefits and responsibilities associated with being on a monthly or annual salary. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act, salaried exempt employees cannot be subject to docked pay for less than one day. For example, if business conditions require employees to work 4 1/2 days instead of five days a week, a salaried employee must be paid her regular weekly pay.
Ask two workers if they prefer a salary or hourly wage, you will likely get two different answers. Using the Fair Labor Standards Act exempt classification tests, salaried employees are exempt from overtime pay rules, meaning they don’t receive extra pay for working more than 40 hours in a week. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act, salaried exempt employees cannot be subject to docked pay for less than one day. For example, if business conditions require employees to work 4 1/2 days instead of five days a week, a salaried employee must be paid her regular weekly pay.
Hourly. When looking at the benefits of salary vs. hourly, you can’t overlook certain benefits. With an hourly position, an employer is usually required by law to pay an overtime rate of 1.5 times the hourly wage for any hours worked over 40 hours a week. However, every employer offers some type of incentive package for becoming a salary employee. On the downside, the benefits of salary vs. hourly may not seem worth it if you are asked to work more than forty hours per week. Employers expect salaried employees to work longer hours whenever necessary.
Being on a salary rather than an hourly wage does have it's benefits: 1  Potentially more flexibility over working hours. 2  Possible flexibility over duration and timing of lunch breaks. 3  Higher pay-this is the benefit you get for having to potentially work more hours or at weekends. However, there doesn't seem to be any benefit to the employee for being on salary. For example, if I miss a day of work my pay is docked, but if I work 10 extra hours during the week I get no benefit at all since I'm exempt and the company doesn't have to pay overtime.
Full Pay. An hourly employee's pay can change each pay period, because her payment is based on hours worked. She might, for example, work 40 hours one week and 32 the following week. A salaried employee receives her full pay regardless of the amount of hours or days she works. 