What Exactly is Luxury Vinyl Tile. In the flooring world, there has always been a vinyl tile in one form or another. Today, the vinyl tile category continues to remain popular today, and continues to be the fastest growing market segment with double digit growth last year. 
For residential use, vinyl is available in a few different formats, including sheet vinyl, solid vinyl tiles, and luxury vinyl tiles/planks. Sheet vinyl generally comes in 6’ or 12’ wide rolls. When installed, this single sheet of vinyl is rolled flat and cut to the shape of the floor. As with wall-to-wall carpet, if the floor is too large for one sheet, a additional sheets are added, which creates seams where the sheets meet. Also referred to as rotovinyl, this type of vinyl is a more affordable option to inlaid vinyl but is less durable. Inlaid vinyl floors achieve their color and textured surface through a process that places tiny vinyl granules on the backing, forcing them up to the wear surface.
Vinyl composition tile (VCT) is a finished flooring material used primarily in commercial and institutional applications. Floor tiles are cut into modular shapes such 12 x 12 squares or 12 x 24 rectangles. In installation the floor tiles or sheet flooring are applied to a smooth, leveled sub-floor using a specially formulated vinyl adhesive or tile mastic that remains pliable.
But today’s vinyl flooring – as many of the big-name manufactures are quick to point out – is not your grandmother’s kitchen flooring. Now grouped into a category called “resilient flooring,” today’s vinyl floors are manufactured using the latest advances in flooring technology. Also referred to as rotovinyl, this type of vinyl is a more affordable option to inlaid vinyl but is less durable. Inlaid vinyl floors achieve their color and textured surface through a process that places tiny vinyl granules on the backing, forcing them up to the wear surface.
Probably, you are thinking right now whether Vinyl flooring is related to Vinyl Records, right? They are not related at all. Vinyl flooring is a new type of resilient flooring in the market. Resilient flooring is simply artificial composite floors such as rubber, plastic, PVC, linoleum and the latest addition, Vinyl. They are produced massively in many parts of the world especially North America
Vinyl flooring from Armstrong comes in a variety of looks from natural stone or wood looks, to patterned designs—all at an affordable price. A great combination of beauty and function, vinyl is a durable and easy-to-clean floor type that can be installed anywhere in the home. 1  Armstrong Vinyl Tile. 2  Armstrong Sheet Vinyl. Installing vinyl floor tiles, vinyl plank flooring, vct flooring, sheet vinyl flooring and cove base is an excellent way to enhance your home's beauty while adding value.
Linoleum vs. Vinyl Flooring. With the large variety of flooring available, it can be easy to get lost in the specifics of how exactly one type of flooring differs from another. One common question that consumers have when looking for flooring is what the difference is between linoleum and vinyl flooring.
Vinyl flooring can be installed as either sheet, tile or plank: 1  Sheet comes in 6- or 12-foot widths cut to measurements or in prepared rolls. 2  The adhesive types and methods will vary by floor style. 3  Sheet vinyl is ideal for high-moisture areas like bathrooms because it can be installed seamlessly. 