A. IgG and IgM are short for immunoglobulin G and immunoglobulin M. Immunoglobulins are also known as antibodies and are substances produced by the body's immune system in response to foreign substances such as bacteria, viruses, fungi or other substances like animal dander or cancer cells. IgG antibodies are important for fighting bacterial and viral infections. IgG antibodies are the only type of antibody that can cross the placenta, therefore the IgG antibodies of a pregnant woman can also help protect her baby in its initial weeks of life before its own immune system has developed.
A test for quantitative immunoglobulins (Igs) is used to detect an excess or deficiency in the three major classes of immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, and IgM). 
Definition of IgG Subclass Deficiency. There are five classes of antibodies (immunoglobulins) that help the body fight infection: IgG, IgA, IgM, IgD, and IgE. Immunoglobulins make up the antibodies that fight infection. Most of the antibodies in the blood and other fluids that surround the body’s tissues and cells are of the IgG class. 
1 IgM antibodies are the largest antibody. 2  They are found in blood and lymph fluid and are the first type of antibody made in response to an infection. 3  They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 4  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body. 5  IgE. 1 They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 2  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body. 3  IgE. 4  IgE antibodies are found in the lungs, skin, and mucous membranes. 5  They cause the body to react against foreign substances such as pollen, fungus spores, and animal dander.
IgG subclass deficiencies affect only IgG subclasses (usually IgG2 or IgG3), with normal total IgG and IgM immunoglobulins and other components of the immune system being at normal levels. These deficiencies can affect only one subclass or involve an association of two subclasses, such as IgG2 and IgG4. 
Immunoglobulin M, or IgM for short, is a basic antibody that is produced by B cells. IgM is by far the physically largest antibody in the human circulatory system. It is the first antibody to appear in response to initial exposure to an antigen. 
1 IgG antibodies are the only type of antibody that can cross the placenta in a pregnant woman to help protect her baby (fetus). 2  IgM. 3  IgM antibodies are the largest antibody. 4  They are found in blood and lymph fluid and are the first type of antibody made in response to an infection. 1 They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 2  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body. 3  IgE. 4  IgE antibodies are found in the lungs, skin, and mucous membranes. 5  They cause the body to react against foreign substances such as pollen, fungus spores, and animal dander.
1 IgM. 2  IgM antibodies are the largest antibody. 3  They are found in blood and lymph fluid and are the first type of antibody made in response to an infection. 4  They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 5  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body. 6  IgE. 1 They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 2  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body. 3  IgE. 4  IgE antibodies are found in the lungs, skin, and mucous membranes. 5  They cause the body to react against foreign substances such as pollen, fungus spores, and animal dander.
Immunoglobulin E (IgE) is a kind of antibody (or immunoglobulin (Ig)  isotype ) that has only been found in mammals. Monomers of IgE consist of two heavy chains (ε chain) and two light chains, with the ε chain containing 4 Ig-like constant domains (Cε1-Cε4). IgE primes the IgE-mediated allergic response by binding to Fc receptors found on the surface of mast cells and basophils. Fc receptors are also found on eosinophils, monocytes, macrophages and platelets in humans. There are two types of Fcε receptors: 1  FcεRI (type I Fcε receptor), the high-affinity IgE receptor.