In December 1963, Cooke recorded A Change Is Gonna Come.. Though Cooke didn't live to see its success and reception, A Change Is Gonna Come cemented his reputation as a soul-music legend. The song was covered hundreds of times, including by Aretha Franklin. View a Slideshow of the Interviewees. Recorded one year earlier, Sam Cooke's A Change Is Gonna Come was released as a 7 single near the time of the singer's death in December 1964. Hulton Archive / Getty Images hide captio
A Change Is Gonna Come was released on the album Ain't That Good News in March of 1964. The civil rights movement picked up on it immediately, but most of Cooke's audience did not — mostly because it wasn't selected as one of the first singles and because Cooke only played the song before a live audience once. Guralnick says A Change Is Gonna Come was written within a month or two after that. It was less work than any song he'd ever written, Guralnick says. It almost scared him that the song — it was almost as if the song were intended for somebody else.
Cooke's response, A Change Is Gonna Come, recorded on January 30th, 1964, with a sumptuous orchestral arrangement by Rene Hall, was more personal — in its first-person language and the experiences that preceded its creation. On December 11th, 1964, a year after he recorded it, Cooke was fatally shot at an L.A. motel. Two weeks later, A Change Is Gonna Come was released, becoming Cooke's farewell address and an anthem of the civil rights movement.
But really, 'A Change Is Gonna Come' was a real departure for him, in the sense that it was undoubtedly the first time that he addressed social problems in a direct and explicit way.. YouTube. It's hard to imagine today what it meant for a black artist to achieve crossover in 1963. Guralnick says A Change Is Gonna Come was written within a month or two after that. It was less work than any song he'd ever written, Guralnick says. It almost scared him that the song — it was almost as if the song were intended for somebody else.
+20 other releases. read more. A Change Is Gonna Come is a 1964 single by R&B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke, written and first recorded in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964. 
Obama proclaimed, It's been a long time coming, but...change has come to America, an allusion to the Sam Cooke song  A Change Is Gonna Come .. Obama also made a reference to a prospective presidential pet for his daughters. Sasha and Malia … I love you both more than you can imagine. 
It was more than spooky. Just before the song was to be released as a single in December of 1964, Sam Cooke would be shot to death at a motel in Los Angeles. Guralnick says A Change Is Gonna Come is now much more than a civil rights anthem. It's become a universal message of hope, one that does not age. Guralnick says A Change Is Gonna Come was written within a month or two after that. It was less work than any song he'd ever written, Guralnick says. It almost scared him that the song — it was almost as if the song were intended for somebody else.
Edit this wiki. A Change Is Gonna Come is a 1964 single by R&B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke, written and first recorded in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964. Though Cooke recognized it's been a long/a long time coming, the song states that change is inevitable. A similar sentiment was echoed by Dylan in The Times They Are a-Changin', written and released after A Change Is Gonna Come..
When Barack Obama told America late Tuesday night that a change has come, the many promises cashed in by those four words included a very specific promise made in 1964 by Sam Cooke. It's been a long, a long time coming, sang Cooke, in what turned out to be one of his last songs, but I know a change is gonna come.. Seventeen years later, Barack Obama will live his dream. Sam Cooke said he wrote A Change Is Gonna Come after hearing Dylan songs like Blowin' in the Wind and thinking, We ought to be writing some of this ourselves..