Dubai (/duːˈbaɪ/ doo-BY; Arabic: دبي ‎ Dubayy, [dʊˈbɑj]) is the most populous city in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country. Abu Dhabi and Dubai are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country's legislature.
Dubai is a city and emirate in the United Arab Emirates located on the north-eastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It is bordered by Abu Dhabi on the south, Sharjah on the north-east, and the Sultanate of Oman on the south-east. How big is Dubai? Dubai is the second-largest city in the United Arab Emirates afer Abu Dhabi; it covers an area of 1,588.4 square miles. the Emirate has a population of 2,262,000.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world and the most expensive city in the Middle East. In 2014, Dubai's hotel rooms were rated as the second most expensive in the world, after Geneva. It is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country. Abu Dhabi and Dubai are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country's legislature.
Dubai (City) is located on the northern coastline of the United  Arab Emirates.    Dubai is often miss-perceived as a country and in some cases, the  whole UAE as bee … n described as Dubai. 1 The Truth About the Dubai Ski Resort Dubai is one of the most luxurious and innovative locations in the Middle East. 2  Dubai is located in the United Emirates, and is home to the Mall of the Emirates.
Dubai has emerged as a global city and business hub of the Middle East. It is also a major transport hub for passengers and cargo. By the 1960s Dubai's economy was based on revenues from trade and, to a smaller extent, oil exploration concessions, but oil was not discovered until 1966. It is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country. Abu Dhabi and Dubai are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country's legislature.
East. Dubai is located on the Persian Gulf, in the northeast of the United Arab Emirates. Dubai is the second largest emirate with an urban area of 3885 sq km and the city is roughly 35 sq km. 
Dubai is situated on the Persian Gulf coast of the United Arab Emirates and is roughly at sea level (16 m or 52 ft above). The emirate of Dubai shares borders with Abu Dhabi in the south, Sharjah in the northeast, and the Sultanate of Oman in the southeast. It is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country. Abu Dhabi and Dubai are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country's legislature.
Dubai is located in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) which is in the Middle East area. Dubai is often known as the world's most modern city. Dubai (in Arabic: دبيّ‎, transliteration: Dubaīy) is one of the seven emirates and most populous city of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). 1 The Truth About the Dubai Ski Resort Dubai is one of the most luxurious and innovative locations in the Middle East. 2  Dubai is located in the United Emirates, and is home to the Mall of the Emirates.
1 Dubai is located in the United Emirates, and is home to the Mall of the Emirates. 2  The Mall of 3  …. The Unique Government of the Emirate of Dubai The Emirate of Dubai is a part of the United Arab Emirates, and its capital city is simply called Dubai. 1 The Truth About the Dubai Ski Resort Dubai is one of the most luxurious and innovative locations in the Middle East. 2 