Echinacea is an herb. Several species of the echinacea plant are used to make medicine from its leaves, flower, and root. Echinacea is widely used to fight infections, especially the common cold and other upper respiratory infections. 1 Echinacea purpurea herb juice: a daily dose of 6-9 mL for up to a maximum of 8 weeks. 2  Echinacea purpurea herb juice has also been used in a dose of 20 drops every 2 hours for the first day followed by 20 drops three times daily until cold or flu symptoms improve.
Echinaforce ® is a herbal remedy used for the symptomatic relief of colds, influenza type infections and similar upper respiratory tract conditions. It helps the body fight the symptoms of these infections by supporting the immune system, helping to maintain the body's resistance. Echinaforce® Echinacea Tablets: This is the tabletted version of Echinaforce ® Echinacea Drops. Each tablet contains the extract of Echinacea purpurea herb and root equivalent to 270mg whole fresh plant.
Also contains 65%v/v ethanol. Echinaforce® Echinacea Tablets: This is the tabletted version of Echinaforce ® Echinacea Drops. Each tablet contains the extract of Echinacea purpurea herb and root equivalent to 270mg whole fresh plant. Also contains lactose, starch, magnesium stearate. Echinaforce® Echinacea Tablets: This is the tabletted version of Echinaforce ® Echinacea Drops. Each tablet contains the extract of Echinacea purpurea herb and root equivalent to 270mg whole fresh plant
Echinaforce® Echinacea Drops: This is the original Echinacea extract formulated by Alfred Vogel and contains the tinctures of Echinacea purpurea herb and root. 0.6ml drops contains the equivalent of 285mg whole fresh plant. Echinaforce® Echinacea Tablets: This is the tabletted version of Echinaforce ® Echinacea Drops. Each tablet contains the extract of Echinacea purpurea herb and root equivalent to 270mg whole fresh plant.
Echinaforce ® is a herbal remedy made from fresh extracts of Echinacea purpurea herb (95%) and Echinacea purpurea root (5%). It is available as drops (tincture in 30ml, 50ml & 100ml bottles) and as tablets (60 & 120 tablets): Echinaforce® Echinacea Tablets: This is the tabletted version of Echinaforce ® Echinacea Drops. Each tablet contains the extract of Echinacea purpurea herb and root equivalent to 270mg whole fresh plant.
Important things you need to know This product is used to relieve the symptoms of colds and flu. This product is suitable for children over 6 years. Don't take this product if you are allergic to products containing Echinacea. Before you take this product: read section 2. Dosage instructions: see section 3. Talk to your doctor if your symptoms worsen or do not improve.Now read the rest of this leaflet carefully. Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 3. How to take this product Adults and the elderly: 15 drops (0.6 ml) in a little water two to three times daily.Children (6–12 years): 7 drops (0.3 ml) in a little water two to three times daily.Not for use in children under 6.For oral use only.
Dosage of Echinaforce tablets: Adults, elderly and children over 12 years: Two tablets, 2 to 3 times daily. 1  Echinaforce ® Echinacea drops and tablets are for oral use only. 2  Do not take more than the recommended dose. Echinaforce ® is a licensed medicine made from fresh extracts of Echinacea purpurea herb (95%) and Echinacea purpurea root (5%). It is available as drops (tincture in 15ml, 50ml & 100ml bottles) and as tablets (42 tablets & 120 tablets):
Echinaforce ® Echinacea drops (tincture) and Echinacea tablets may be used by adults and children over the age of 6 years to fight the symptoms of colds and flu. Dosage of Echinaforce drops: Adults, elderly and children over 12 years: 15 drops (0.6ml) of tincture in a small amount of water, 2 to 3 times daily. Echinaforce ® is a licensed medicine made from fresh extracts of Echinacea purpurea herb (95%) and Echinacea purpurea root (5%). It is available as drops (tincture in 15ml, 50ml & 100ml bottles) and as tablets (42 tablets & 120 tablets):
A.Vogel Echinacea drops (tincture) and tablets may be used by adults and children over the age of 12 years to fight the symptoms of colds and flu. Dosage of Echinaforce drops:Adults, elderly and children over 12 years: 15 drops (0.6ml) of tincture in a small amount of water, 2 to 3 times daily. 1 Echinaforce® Echinacea drops: This is the original extract formulated by Alfred Vogel and contains the tinctures of Echinacea purpurea herb and root. 2  0.6ml drops equivalent to 285mg whole fresh plant.