While the festival is called Vishu only in Kerala, across India festivals sharing the same spirit—such as Ugadhi in Andhra Pradesh and in Karnataka, Gudi Padwa in Maharashtra, Bihu in Assam and Baisakhi in Punjab—are celebrated around the same time of year. In Kerala, the start of the Zodiac New Year*—when the sun enters into Sidereal Aries, Ashwini nakshatra—is celebrated as Vishu.
Vishu Cards. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Vishu is a Malayalum festival held in the state of Kerala (and adjoining areas of Tamil Nadu) in Indian on the first day in the Malayalum month of Medam (April-May). 
Meanwhile, devotees in national capital New Delhi also offered prayers on the occasion of the Malayalam New Year. Vishu is an important Kerala festival celebrated in the month of 'Medam', with much fanfare and vigour. Thiruvananthapuram: People in Kerala thronged temples on Wednesday to celebrate the harvest festival of Vishu.
Vishu (Malayalam: വിഷു) is a Hindu festival celebrated in Kerala, India. It is also celebrated as Bisu in Mangalore and Udupi districts of Karnataka, India. Vishu signifies the Hindu New Year and falls on the month of Madam in the Malayalam calendar, usually in the second week of April in the Gregorian calendar. This is arranged the night before Vishu and is the first sight seen on Vishu. On Vishu, devotees often visit temples like Sabarimala Ayyappan Temple or Guruvayur Sree Krishna temple to have a 'Vishukkani Kazhcha' (viewing) in the early hours of the day.
Vishu-the New Year in Kerala. Festivals. Vishu is the first day of the Malayalam calendar and is the call of a New Year in Kerala and the adjoining areas of Southern India. This day is celebrated with much ceremonial splendor among all family members, relatives and friends and is marked by feasting and burning of fire crackers. Vishu is the first day of the local calendar and is the beginning of Meda Rashi, the first zodiac sign. It signifies the equinox according to the solar calendar and falls usually in the second week of April according to the English calendar.
Vishu Festival is a Malayalam festival that represents the Kerala New Year. It falls in the month of April and is generally celebrated on 14th April and is celebrated on the first day of the Malayalam calendar, month of Medam that is April or May in Kerala. The divine Vishukani is offered on this day. 
Vishu in Kerala. Vishu Festival heralds the beginning of Malayalese New Year and is celebrated in a big way in the state of Kerala and the adjoining areas of Tamil Nadu. Vishu falls on the first day in the Malayalam month of Medam
Onam (Malayalam: ഓണം) is a Hindu festival celebrated in Kerala, India. It is also the state festival of Kerala with State holidays on 4 days starting from Onam Eve (Uthradom) to the 3rd Onam Day. Onam falls in the month of Chingam, which is the first month according to the Malayalam Calendar. The celebrations begin within a fortnight of the Malayalam New Year and go on for ten days. All over the state of Kerala, festive rituals, traditional cuisine, dance and music mark this harvest festival.
Vishu is celebrated with much fanfare and vigour in all parts of Kerala, especially by Hindus. It is considered a festival of light and fireworks, and decorating lights and bursting of firecrackers (Vishupadakkam) is part of the celebration. This is arranged the night before Vishu and is the first sight seen on Vishu. On Vishu, devotees often visit temples like Sabarimala Ayyappan Temple or Guruvayur Sree Krishna temple to have a 'Vishukkani Kazhcha' (viewing) in the early hours of the day.
Vishu Celebrations. Vishu Cards. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Vishu is celebrated on the first day of the Malayalam month. It is supposed to be the best time to begin any new venture. Right from brightly colored lamps to beautiful flowers, Vishu celebrations mark the onset of spring everywhere. 