Making the world better, one answer at a time. Dendrites are the part of a neuron which receives chemical messages (neurotransmitters) through synapses.Mostly the dendrites receive messages from other neurons, but the cell bodies of neurons also receive direct synaptic inputs from other cells. 
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord, cause muscle contractions, and affect glands. Interneurons connect neurons to other neurons within the same region of the brain or spinal cord. Source(s): Wikipedia ;). lioness · 4 years ago. Report Abuse. signals travel down the axon terminal, out to the synapse (branch like structures) where a multitude of chemical reactions occur between the cell membrane of one neuron and another allowing them to receive and send out signals.
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
1 A chemical that is released into the synaptic cleft from the axon terminal of a sending neuron, crosses a synapse, and binds to appropriate receptor sites on the dendrites or cell body of a receiving neuron, influencing the cell either to fire or not to fire. 2  Receptors. 1 Neurotransmitters. 2  A chemical that is released into the synaptic cleft from the axon terminal of a sending neuron, crosses a synapse, and binds to appropriate receptor sites on the dendrites or cell body of a receiving neuron, influencing the cell either to fire or not to fire. 3  Receptors.
At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another. There are, however, many exceptions to these rules: neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
Synaptic signals from other neurons are received by the soma and dendrites; signals to other neurons are transmitted by the axon. A typical synapse, then, is a contact between the axon of one neuron and a dendrite or soma of another. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
1 These cells receive signals from and send signals to other nerve cells. 2  Interneurons serve to process information in many different ways and constitute the bulk of the human nervous system. 3  Effectors or motor neurons are the third class of neurons. 
Dendrites are the part of a neuron which receives  chemical messages (neurotransmitters) through  synapses.Mostly the dendrites receive messages from other neurons,  but th … e cell bodies of neurons also receive direct synaptic inputs  from other cells. Alexander Rowan. Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/Which_part_of_the_neuron_receives_signals_from_other_cells_and_is_also_the_main_metabolic_region_of_the_neuron#ixzz2JFmjESKg. 2 people found this useful.