Sephardic Jews (Jews of Spain, Portugal and the Middle East) in contrast, name their children after living relatives or deceased relatives. The father's parents names are generally used first and then the mother's parents names. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. Children of Jewish heritage are usually given a Hebrew name for religious purposes and are sometimes also given a local language version of that name for secular purposes. By custom, Ashkenazi Jews (Jews of German or Eastern European descent) name their children afte
Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Shephatiah Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Shephatiah has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Shephatiah to other names. Children of Jewish heritage are usually given a Hebrew name for religious purposes and are sometimes also given a local language version of that name for secular purposes. By custom, Ashkenazi Jews (Jews of German or Eastern European descent) name their children after deceased relatives.
The Biblical baby name Shephatiah is Hebrew in origin and its meaning is Jehovah has judged. Shephatiah is pronounced shef-at-yaw'. Shephatiah is the name of many men in the Bible. Shephatiah was the fifth son of David. 
For a meaning of the name Shephatiah, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads Yahweh Judges. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names has Judge Of The Lord. And BDB Theological Dictionary proposes YHWH Hath Judged, Vindicated. | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |. The name Shephatiah consists of two elements, the final one being יה (Yah) = יהו (Yahu) = יו (Yu), which in turn are abbreviated forms of the Tetragrammaton יהוה, YHWH, or Yahweh. The first part of our name comes from the verb שפט (shapat) meaning to judge or govern:
Hebrew names have their origins in either the Old Testament or modern Hebrew vocabulary. Local language versions of biblical names of Hebrew origin such as Hannah and David are still widely internationally popular today. Children of Jewish heritage are usually given a Hebrew name for religious purposes and are sometimes also given a local language version of that name for secular purposes. By custom, Ashkenazi Jews (Jews of German or Eastern European descent) name their children after deceased relatives.
(judged by Jehovah). a â the fifth son Of. (david 2 samuel:3; 4 1 chronicles:3) (3.B. c about.) 1050 A â the Family, of shephatiah 372, in number Returned. (With zerubbabel:ezra; 2 4:nehemiah) 7 9 See also:ezra (8.8. b.). c 536 a â the Family, of another shephatiah who Came. up with zerubbabel (Ezra 2:4) a â a descendant Of. (Judah nehemiah:11). 4 A â one of the Princes of judah Who counselled zedekiah To put jeremiah in. (The dungeon:jeremiah) (38.1. b.) c 589 a â One of the benjamite Warriors who joined david in His. retreat at ziklag
a â the fifth son Of. (david 2 samuel:3; 4 1 chronicles:3) (3.B. c about.) 1050 A â the Family, of shephatiah 372, in number Returned. (With zerubbabel:ezra; 2 4:nehemiah) 7 9 See also:ezra (8.8. b.). c 536 a â the Family, of another shephatiah who Came. (Up with:zerubbabel) ezra 2 4 a â. a descendant of judah (Ezra 2:4) a â a descendant Of. (Judah nehemiah:11). 4 A â one of the Princes of judah Who counselled zedekiah To put jeremiah in. (The dungeon:jeremiah) (38.1. b.) c 589 a â One of the benjamite Warriors who joined david in His. retreat at ziklag
Meaning of Shephatiah. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Shephatiah means-the lord that judges.The name Shephatiah originated as an Israeli name. The name Shephatiah is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning-the lord that judges. 
a â the fifth son Of. (david 2 samuel:3; 4 1 chronicles:3) (3.B. c about.) 1050 A â the Family, of shephatiah 372, in number Returned. with zerubbabel (Ezra 2:4) a â a descendant Of. (Judah nehemiah:11). 4 A â one of the Princes of judah Who counselled zedekiah To put jeremiah in. (The dungeon:jeremiah) (38.1. b.) c 589 a â One of the benjamite Warriors who joined david in His. retreat at ziklag
☺. There are seven to nine men named Shephatiah in the Bible. It's not always clear where one Shephatiah ends and the other begins: 1  The fifth son of David, by Abital (2 Samuel 3:4, 1 Chronicles 3:3). 2  The father of a man named Meshullam, who is mentioned among the people who returned from exile (1 Chronicles 9:8). The name Shephatiah consists of two elements, the final one being יה (Yah) = יהו (Yahu) = יו (Yu), which in turn are abbreviated forms of the Tetragrammaton יהוה, YHWH, or Yahweh. The first part of our name comes from the verb שפט (shapat) meaning to judge or govern: