William Shakespeare (/ˈʃeɪkspɪər/ ; 26 April 1564 (baptised) – 23 April 1616) was an English poet, playwright, and actor, widely regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. He is often called England's national poet, and the Bard of Avon. 
· just now. Report Abuse. False, most people do not consider William Shakespeare as the greatest play writer of all time, the people who do are people that concentrates in the field of English Literature, and are severely limited to other works. For this reason Shakespeare is deeply admired by actors, and many consider playing a Shakespearean character to be the most difficult and most rewarding role possible. 4) Ability to Turn a Phrase Many of the common expressions now thought to be cliches clichés Were'shakespeare s. creations
King Lear is thought by many to be one of Shakespeare's greatest triumphs, a play layered with complexities of the human condition: it is a study in human suffering and the kinship of man. It follows the story of Lear, the King of England, as he descends slowly into madness and his three daughters. 
Visitor Survey Click here! Shakespeare is renowned as the English playwright and poet whose body of works is considered the greatest in history of English literature. Surprisingly for the world's greatest playwright, we actually know very little about Shakespeare's life. What few details we have come from church records, land titles and the written opinions of others. Very little is known about young Shakespeare.
Almost everyone in the Western World has read one of Shakespeare's plays, even if only at school, and almost everyone can name one of his works. Arguably, Shakespeare's most famous and popular play is the romantic tragedy Romeo and Juliet. Other popular plays include Hamlet, Macbeth, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Othello, and The Merchant of Venice. Some of Shakespeare's plays were published individually in his lifetime, but most were printed for the first time in the First Folio of 1623
As the title says. Also, to even have the impudence to say that Shakespeare is the greatest writer of all time and not merely past time while not thinking about the future leads to some bias. The reason why shakespeare is considered the best is because of his intouchability. Being the greatest writer is different from person to person. To say that Shakespeare is the greatest writer of all time suggests he was the most liked writer/ most read/ most influential writer of all time. He wasn't any of the three so therefore he can't be the greatest
William Shakespeare is generally considered the greatest writer of all time. His plays, along with his collection of sonnets, contain unparalleled poetic beauty and wisdom, and his knowledge is breathtakingly diverse. Arguably, Shakespeare's most famous and popular play is the romantic tragedy Romeo and Juliet. Other popular plays include Hamlet, Macbeth, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Othello, and The Merchant of Venice.
Without a doubt Shakespeare was a genius, and is considered, along with the likes of Albert Einstein, Leonardo Da Vinci, and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, as having possessed one of the greatest minds of all time. Arguably, Shakespeare's most famous and popular play is the romantic tragedy Romeo and Juliet. Other popular plays include Hamlet, Macbeth, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Othello, and The Merchant of Venice.
William Shakespeare, if that was his real name, was an obscure writer of Elizabethan entertainments about whom little is known.... Just kidding. But only partly. The poet and playwright generally considered the greatest ever is also one of the least known of all literary figures. His works were indeed created for the popular entertainment of his day with little thought to their immortality. Shakespeare did not take any steps to preserve his writings past their immediate use
Posted on. (Answer #1). Shakespeare's reputation as the greatest English-language writer stems from at least five dimensions of his collective work. The first of these is the sheer scope of his achievement. Over some thirty-eight plays, Shakespeare addressed virtually every aspect of human experience. That being so, although he wrote for a specific audience of a particular historical era, Shakespeare's works are timeless. In fact, many of his works have been updated to our own time. Depth is a third facet of the Shakespeare canon.