Use a comma to separate the day of the month from the year, and—what most people forget!—always put one after the year, also. Example: It was in the Sun's June 5, 2003, edition. No comma is necessary for just the month and year. Example: It was in a June 2003 article. Rule 7. Use a comma to separate a city from its state, and remember to put one after the state, also. Example: I'm from the Akron, Ohio, area.
It is appropriate to use a comma when you are separating the day of the month from the year in a written sentence. A second comma is placed after the year in the sentence. The rest of the sentence comes after the second comma. Examples: 1) We are having the party on Oct. 4, 2011, in our backyard. 2) Her classes will begin Aug. 22, 2012, at the local community college. Commas Dividing Clauses Including Dates. If you are writing a sentence with more than one clause that involves a two-part date, such as a month and day or a month and year, a comma comes after the first clause and before the second clause.
The comma is the punctuation mark most likely to cause angst. This is largely the result of the many different ways the comma is used. Sometimes, the comma indicates a pause that would occur if the sentence were spoken aloud. Other times, the comma separates grammatical components of the sentence. Rule: When a sentence begins with a dependent clause that applies to two independent clauses that follow, insert a comma after the dependent clause, but do not insert a comma between the independent clauses. If we want this business to work, you need to find suppliers and I need to find buyers.
Commas and Other Numbers. When discussing a number of years not directly related to a date, commas simply divide the clauses of a sentence. Do not place a comma after a number simply because it is a number. Examples: 1) We have lived in our house for 30 years. 2) In five years, we will move to Arizona. Commas Dividing Clauses Including Dates. If you are writing a sentence with more than one clause that involves a two-part date, such as a month and day or a month and year, a comma comes after the first clause and before the second clause.
Use one comma before to indicate the beginning of the pause and one at the end to indicate the end of the pause. 4. Do not use commas to set off essential elements of the sentence, such as clauses beginning with that (relative clauses). That clauses after nouns are always essential. That clauses following a verb expressing mental action are always essential. 5. Quick Guide to Commas. 1. Use commas to separate independent clauses when they are joined by any of these seven coordinating conjunctions: and, but, for, or, nor, so, yet. 2. Use commas after introductory a) clauses, b) phrases, or c) words that come before the main clause.
Rule 1. Use commas to separate words and word groups in a simple series of three or more items. Example: My estate goes to my husband, son, daughter-in-law, and nephew. Note: When the last comma in a series comes before and or or (after daughter-in-law in the above example), it is known as the Oxford comma. Most newspapers and magazines drop the Oxford comma in a simple series, apparently feeling it's unnecessary. No comma is necessary for just the month and year. Example: It was in a June 2003 article. Rule 7. Use a comma to separate a city from its state, and remember to put one after the state, also. Example: I'm from the Akron, Ohio, area.
by Tina Blue. Here are a few simple rules for using commas with dates. You can read the rules, or you can just look at the examples and use them as models--which is probably the easiest way to learn how to use commas with dates. American Style. 
Word: I appreciate your hard work. In this case, however, you seem to have over-exerted yourself. 4. Do not use commas to set off essential elements of the sentence, such as clauses beginning with that (relative clauses). That clauses after nouns are always essential. That clauses following a verb expressing mental action are always essential. That clauses after nouns: The book that I borrowed from you is excellent.