Swedish bitters is a Bitter and a traditional herbal tonic, that dates back to the 15th century. In modern times Swedish bitters has been popularised by Maria Treben, an Austrian herbalist. The tonic is claimed to cure a large number of ailments and help digestion. However, these claims are presented with little in the way of scientific evidence to support them.
Swedish Bitters have a long tradition as a home remedy for an impressive array of ailments, with this herbal tonic strongly promoted by famed herbalist Maria Treben. This alcoholic concoction of natural herbs goes back to the 18th century and is a common health tonic in many European countries. 
Swedish Bitters is an elixir, made from the extracts of 11 herbs. Believers in the use of Swedish Bitters claim that it enhances one's health and well-being by improving the digestive system. 1  What Are the Benefits of Swedish Bitters? 2  What Drinks Do You Put Bitters In? Forms of Swedish Bitters. Swedish Bitters is made by a wide range of herbal medicine companies and may be found in liquid form that can be ingested, as well as cream and liquid forms for external use.
Origins of Swedish Bitters. Swedish Bitters was created in 1541 by Phillipus Paracelsus, a Swiss physician. Paracelsus' formula was rediscovered in the 18th century by Swedish physician Claus Samst and later popularized in the 20th century by Austrian herbalist Maria Treben. Forms of Swedish Bitters. Swedish Bitters is made by a wide range of herbal medicine companies and may be found in liquid form that can be ingested, as well as cream and liquid forms for external use.
Swedish Bitters. Swedish Bitters can be a useful part of your Candida treatment. By increasing the production of digestive enzymes like hydrochloric acid, they improve your digestion and help to raise the acidity of your intestines. The liver is a vital part of your digestive function, and Swedish Bitters promote the efficient functioning and cleansing action of this important organ. The Bitters stimulate bile production, helping to metabolize fats and promoting smooth elimination, and they prepare the liver to process nutrients efficiently.
The Swedish Bitters is an herbal tonic that is initially meant to improve digestion. Very soon after, it was discovered that it can do more than just that. Its formula was discovered by Paracelsus in the 18th century and then revived by two Swedish medics named Dr. Urban Hjarne and Dr. Claus Samst, thus its name. 
Swedish Bitters have a number of positive effects on the way that your body works. Not all of these are relevant to Candida, but they are all beneficial to the smooth and efficient running of your internal systems. The liver is a vital part of your digestive function, and Swedish Bitters promote the efficient functioning and cleansing action of this important organ. The Bitters stimulate bile production, helping to metabolize fats and promoting smooth elimination, and they prepare the liver to process nutrients efficiently.
Swedish Bitters regulate stomach acidity. By stimulating the production of digestive enzymes such as hydrochloric acid, Swedish Bitters help to maintain a healthy, acidic environment in your stomach. There is a lot of confusion among Candida sufferers over acidic or alkaline environments. The liver is a vital part of your digestive function, and Swedish Bitters promote the efficient functioning and cleansing action of this important organ. The Bitters stimulate bile production, helping to metabolize fats and promoting smooth elimination, and they prepare the liver to process nutrients efficiently.
These are some of the incredible benefits of the Swedish Bitters elixir. The Swedish Bitters original formula is believed to go back to ancient Babylon and Egypt, but was first attributed to Paracelsus, a Swiss Renaissance physician, botanist, alchemist, astrologer and general occultist. Choose a good bitters brand. Take 1 teaspoon in the morning on an empty stomach in a small glass of water and 1 in the evening after dinner. If this causes diarrhoea, reduce to 1 teaspoon per day, and then gradually increase to 2. Caution: Swedish bitters elixir, as the name indicates, is very bitter.