Also, before you install your package, you'll want to insert your entrance feeder or our new Burns Bees Feeding System. The BBF System is great for new packages. Comes with lids pre-drilled for your jar of 1:1 sugar water. To prepare for the arrival of your bees, you will want to purchase a new spray bottle and mix sugar water, one part water to one part sugar. Do not use old spray bottles that have been used with other chemicals as this could make the bees sick or kill them.
Installing Package Bees (It's Really Not Hard!). Time for installing package bees in my new hive. If you’re beginning beekeeping, package bees are a great way to stock your first hive. And installing them is easy, as you’ll see. 
Basic Beekeeping Course June 11 9am-3pm. To prepare for the arrival of your bees, you will want to purchase a new spray bottle and mix sugar water, one part water to one part sugar. Do not use old spray bottles that have been used with other chemicals as this could make the bees sick or kill them. Spray an ample supply of sugar water through the screen
Ideally, package bees should be installed in late afternoon or early evening, when there is little opportunity for flight. On cool days, package bees may be put into hives at any time. If the bees are well fed, they are much easier to install. 
By David Burns. Tags: Installing a package of bees, bee installation, how to install a package, David Burns. For well over 100 years new beekeepers have received packages of bees in the mail to install in their hives. As strange as it might sound, it is very effective and practical. Bees will arrive at your local post office in a wooden screened box.
As you prepare to install your bees, you will find that spraying the package with sugar water helps to calm the bees. Now, here's how to effectively install your bees into your new hive. Choose a good time of the day, when it is sunny, warm and not too windy. Mid to late afternoon works well. For well over 100 years new beekeepers have received packages of bees in the mail to install in their hives. As strange as it might sound, it is very effective and practical. Bees will arrive at your local post office in a wooden screened box.
This lesson continues but please watch my video on how to install a package. Now, here's how you can effectively install your bees in your new hive. Choose a good time of the day, when it is sunny, warm and not too windy. Mid to late afternoon works well. Be sure and take all your equipment to where you will install your package. Bees love sugar! Also, before you install your package, you'll want to insert your entrance feeder and entrance reducer. Bees need fed when first installed because they are not an operational hive just yet. They have no incoming food. So feed them for a couple of weeks the same mixture of 1:1 sugar water
When your package bees come, they should be put in their hives as soon as possible. The best time to install package bees is early evening. If they can't be put in that day, keep them in a cool, dark place. The temperature should be between 50 and 70 degrees. Set them on cardboard or newspaper. 
Now, here's how you can effectively install your bees in your new hive. Choose a good time of the day, when it is sunny, warm and not too windy. Mid to late afternoon works well. Be sure and take all your equipment to where you will install your package. To prepare for the arrival of your bees, you will want to purchase a new spray bottle and mix sugar water, one part water to one part sugar. Do not use old spray bottles that have been used with other chemicals as this could make the bees sick or kill them.