_______ or _______. You and your health care provider will agree on when to check blood sugar using a blood glucose meter. You will do the tests yourself. Be sure to ask your health care provider or diabetes assistant to teach you how to use the meter. 
This page states 'normal' blood sugar ranges and blood sugar ranges for adults and children with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes and blood sugar ranges to determine people with diabetes. If a person with diabetes has a meter, test strips and is testing, it's important to know what the blood glucose level means. Random plasma glucose test. A blood sample for a random plasma glucose test can be taken at any time. This doesn’t require as much planning and is therefore used in the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes when time is of the essence.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. A healthy blood sugar level is between 70 and 130 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) before meals and less than 180 mg/dL one to two hours after the start of a meal, according to the American Diabetes Association. 
What Are Normal Glucose Levels. According to the American Diabetes Association, normal blood sugar levels for people who don’t have diabetes are 95 mg/dl or less when fasting, 140 mg/dl or less one hour after a meal, and 120 mg/dl or less two hours after a meal. 
Goals for Blood Glucose Control. Discuss blood glucose (sugar) targets with your healthcare team when creating your diabetes management plan. People who have diabetes should be testing their blood glucose regularly at home. 
Blood Glucose. A blood glucose test measures the amount of a type of sugar, called glucose, in your blood. Glucose comes from carbohydrate foods. It is the main source of energy used by the body. Insulin is a hormone that helps your body's cells use the glucose. 1 Fasting blood sugar (FBS) measures blood glucose after you have not eaten for at least 8 hours. 2  It is often the first test done to check for prediabetes and diabetes. 3  2-hour postprandial blood sugar measures blood glucose exactly 2 hours after you start eating a meal. 4  This is not a test used to diagnose diabetes.
A number of things can cause hyperglycemia: 1  If you have type 1, you may not have given yourself enough insulin. 2  If you have type 2, your body may have enough insulin, but it is not as effective as it should be. 3  You ate more than planned or exercised less than planned. 
Adults. A normal blood sugar level is between 72 mg/dL and 108 mg/dL (4 to 6 mmol/L) for a healthy person. The concentration of glucose in the blood of a healthy person in the morning on an empty stomach is between 68 mg/dL and 108 mg/dL (3.8 and 6.0 mmol/L). Blood sugar level (or blood sugar concentration) is the amount of glucose (a source of energy) present in your blood at any given time. A normal blood glucose level for a healthy person is somewhere between 72 mg/dL (3.8 to 4 mmol/L) and 108 mg/dL (5.8 to 6 mmol/L).
If your blood glucose level is consistently too high, talk with your doctor about what you can do to keep it in a more normal range. He or she may suggest: 1  Medication Adjustment: Your doctor may adjust your insulin (or glucose-lowering medication) dose or when you take it to help prevent hyperglycemia. 
The blood sugar concentration or blood glucose level is the amount of glucose (sugar) present in the blood of a human or animal. The body naturally tightly regulates blood glucose levels as a part of metabolic homeostasis. 