If it's a refrigerated carton, it's generally recommended that once opened, it should be used within seven days. Shelf stable almond milk, in addition to being ultra pasteurized, is packaged in sealed, sterile Terta Pak cartons to allow it to be stored at room temperature when it's unopened. Once opened, the carton should be stored in the refrigerator and most brands state that the milk should be used within 7-10 days of opening. 
Now we know that almond milk can be frozen, but what we should also know is the fact that doing so is not recommended. After defrosting the almond milk, one might notice that the taste might be seriously altered and in some cases, the separation of the almonds from the water will happen. The taste and the look of the milk are important for many people and that is why freezing it is not such a good idea. Also, after defrosting the almond milk, there are high chances for it to get spoiled much faster than regular almond milk that hasn’t been frozen.
Normally, one should be able to freeze almost anything. Because of this possibility, almond milk can also be frozen. In order to avoid the separation of the almond powder from the liquid, one should firstly filter the milk through a piece of cheesecloth. Then, the fastest and easiest way to get the almond milk frozen is to put it in an ice cube container. The taste and the look of the milk are important for many people and that is why freezing it is not such a good idea. Also, after defrosting the almond milk, there are high chances for it to get spoiled much faster than regular almond milk that hasn’t been frozen.
Instructions. 1  Soak the almonds overnight or up to 2 days. 2  Drain and rinse the almonds. 3  Combine the almonds and water in a blender. 4  Blend at the highest speed for 2 minutes. 5  Strain the almonds. 6  Press all the almond milk from the almond meal. 7  Sweeten to taste. 8  Refrigerate almond milk. The longer the almonds soak, the creamier the almond milk. Drain and rinse the almonds. Drain the almonds from their soaking water and rinse them thoroughly under cool running water. At this point, the almonds should feel a little squishy if you pinch them.
· just now. Report Abuse. Yes you can drink milk after it is frozen... in fact lots of people freeze milk if they can't finish it before the use by date. That way they can use it in recipes and such. Yes it is okay to drink milk after it has been frozen, but make sure it is totally thawed and then mix it because the milk will have separateded from the water. kookies_101 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 2.
Here is how I made my Almond Milk Frozen Yogurt: I made my almond milk the usual way (2 cups of blanched almonds with 4-1/2 cups water in a blender, blend for 2 minutes, strain out milk) and heated four cups just to a simmer. This may be the key. I finally did it! I made an Almond Milk Frozen Yogurt that tastes really good! My first three attempts at making almond milk yogurt can be seen here. The problem was getting an almond milk yogurt to taste good and have the right creamy, thick consistency.
Obviously, if milk has developed a bad odor or flavor, it’s best to throw it away. Soy and almond milk will last 7-10 days past the printed date. Almond milk, however, will stay fresh for up to one month past the expiration date if left unopened. Yogurt. You have 7-10 days to enjoy that yogurt after its expiration date; two if stored in the freezer (be sure to thaw). 
Can You Freeze Almond Milk – Alterations. The taste and the look of the milk are important for many people and that is why freezing it is not such a good idea. Also, after defrosting the almond milk, there are high chances for it to get spoiled much faster than regular almond milk that hasn’t been frozen.
Place the almonds in the blender and cover with 2 cups of water. Blend at the highest speed for 2 minutes. Pulse the blender a few times to break up the almonds, then blend continuously for two minutes. The almonds should be broken down into a very fine meal and the water should be white and opaque. The longer the almonds soak, the creamier the almond milk. Drain and rinse the almonds. Drain the almonds from their soaking water and rinse them thoroughly under cool running water. At this point, the almonds should feel a little squishy if you pinch them.