What is it used for? The DPD method is used as a reference value to compare the readings of an online chlorine analyzer. The difference in this reference value and the measurement from the online chlorine analyzer can determine if the analyzer is reading too high, too low, or right where it should be.
2. Power on the instrument and select the program number or channel for the 0–4 mg/L DPD chlorine method. 3. Rinse a clean sample cell two times with organic-free water and then fill to the 10-mL mark. 4. Insert the sample cell into the instrument and push ZERO. The display shows 0.00 mg/L Cl 2. 5.
One calibration is for the 0 to 4.5 mg/L (high range) total chlorine test. The other calibration is for the 0 to 2.00 mg/L free chlorine and total chlorine tests. To perform a user-entered calibration, make a chlorine standard solution (a sample of known chlorine concentration can be used).
Making a Calibration Curve Zeroing the Spectrophotometer Zero the spectrophotometer using the calibration blank, DI water – Make sure the spectrophotometer is set to 515 nm. If this is not possible, use a wavelength between 515-540 nm. – Zero with the same water that was used in creating the calibration standards. – Pour the water from the flask into a clean sample cell. Wipe the cell clean of fingerprints. – Align the reference mark to the light source (or as appropriate), and zero the spectrophotometer.
2. Power on the instrument that is used for grab sample measurements and select the program number or channel for the 0–4 mg/L chlorine method. 3. Add approximately 25 mL of organic-free water to a clean 50-mL or 100-mL volumetric flask.
In addition, there is a general step-by-step procedure that describes the proper way to perform a DPD calibration. What is DPD and how does it work? The DPD is a method that uses colorimetric detection as a means to measure the amount of chlorine in a system. It stands for N,N-diethyl-p-phenylendiamine sulfate and the reaction between DPD and active halogens is what is detected and measured.