JJ is online now. Almost 2 years ago, a case of crimen injuria was made against me for allegedly using the F word during an altercation with a civil engineering contractor. He had dug up the road, severing our water pipes, eskom cables and severely damaging our property. For example if one gets caught driving at 72 Km/H in a 60 zone, the recommended fine is R150. Does the same apply to crimen injuria-or is it left up to the magistrate to decide what fine to impose? Surely if the latter is indeed the case it could be quite dangerous and open to abuse.
1 Gunn said the charges ranged from intimidation, assault by threats, crimen injuria and contraventions of the Post Office Act. 2  Sampson had several other cases against him, including assault, crimen injuria and malicious damage to property. 3  The woman pleaded guilty to crimen injuria and was fined R1500 in court. A wilful injury to someone’s dignity, caused by the use of obscene or racially offensive language or gestures. Example sentences. 1  Gunn said the charges ranged from intimidation, assault by threats, crimen injuria and contraventions of the Post Office Act. 2  Sampson had several other cases against him, including assault, crimen injuria and malicious damage to property
Collins Concise English Dictionary © HarperCollins Publishers:: crimen injuria /ˈkraɪmən ɪnˈdʒʊərɪə/ n South African an action that injures the dignity of another person, esp use of racially offensive language Etymology: L, lit.: crime or insult. 1  South African an action that injures the dignity of another person, esp use of racially offensive language. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Crimen injuria is a crime under South African common law, defined to be the act of unlawfully, intentionally and seriously impairing the dignity of another.. 
Impairing someone's dignity. In terms of South African law, anyone who unlawfully, intentionally and seriously impairs the dignity of another person is guilty of criminal injuria. Impairment of dignity may take several forms, including: 1  Indecently exposing one's body to another person; 2  Molesting young children by trying to kiss them; The fact that South African courts have a right to use their discretion in terms of punishment to be meted out for most crimes often means that the sentence for criminal injuria will vary according to the words or gesture used, the effect on the victim, and the relative social positions of the accused and victim.
crimen injuria. n. 1. (Law) law South African an action that injures the dignity of another person, esp use of racially offensive language. [L, lit.: crime or insult]. 1  Facebook. 
Customer Question. Almost 2 years ago, a case of crimen injuria was made against me for allegedly using the F word during an altercation with a civil engineering contractor. He had dug up the road, severing our water pipes, eskom cables and severely damaging our property. For example if one gets caught driving at 72 Km/H in a 60 zone, the recommended fine is R150. Does the same apply to crimen injuria-or is it left up to the magistrate to decide what fine to impose? Surely if the latter is indeed the case it could be quite dangerous and open to abuse.
Crimen injuria is a crime under the South African common law. It is defined as the act of “unlawfully, intentionally and seriously impairing the dignity of another.” Racial insults using racially offensive language and emotional or psychological abuse are considered as the crimes under crimen injuria.
Crimen injuria may be defined as the unlawful, intentional and serious violation of the dignity or privacy of another-Criminal Law Snyman 4ed 453. What is protected by the crime is the dignitas, all the rights of personality other than reputation and bodily integrity-R v Umfaan 1908 TS 62 at 66-67. To determine whether a person’s dignity has been violated a subjective and an objective test are applied.