There are a number of gases that fall under the “LPG” label, including propane, butane, propylene, butadiene, butylene and isobutylene, as well as mixtures of these gases. Propane does not occur naturally. LPG is produced during natural gas processing and petroleum refining. Following its refinement, LPG is stored as a liquid under pressure until used, at which point it becomes a gas or vapour. In Australia, LPG is Propane. Propane is a three carbon molecule with the formula C3H8.
A by-product of natural gas processing and petroleum refining, it is commonly used as a fuel for engines, oxy-gas torches, portable stoves, and residential central heating. Propane is one of a group of liquefied petroleum gases (LP gases). The others include butane, propylene, butadiene, butylene, isobutylene and mixtures thereof. Propane containing too much propene (also called propylene) is not suited for most vehicle fuels. HD-5 is a specification that establishes a maximum concentration of 5% propene in propane. Propane and other LP gas specifications are established in ASTM D-1835. Propane (/ˈproʊpeɪn/) is a three-carbon alkane with the molecular formula C 3H 8, a gas at standard temperature and pressure, but compressible to a transportable liquid.
LPG is an acronym for Liquefied Petroleum Gas. LPG is gas that can be compressed into a liquid. Wet gas is a term that is sometimes used to describe LPG, as a result of this property. It may also be referred to as Natural Gas Liquids -- NGL. Following its refinement, LPG is stored as a liquid under pressure until used, at which point it becomes a gas or vapour. In Australia, LPG is Propane. Propane is a three carbon molecule with the formula C3H8.
LPG minibuses in Hong Kong. Liquified petroleum gas or liquid petroleum gas (LPG or LP gas), also referred to as simply propane or butane, are flammable mixtures of hydrocarbon gases used as fuel in heating appliances, cooking equipment, and vehicles. When specifically used as a vehicle fuel it is often referred to as autogas. Varieties of LPG bought and sold include mixes that are primarily propane (C 3H 8), primarily butane (C 4H 10) and, most commonly, mixes including both propane and butane.
LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) is a mixture of predominantly alkane hydrocarbons, with either propane or butane usually present in greatest amount and both of these almost alwa … ys present. + 2 others found this useful. Brook Thiel. Methane is also a common byproduct from anaerobic metabolism primarily by microorganisms. LPG (liquified petroleum gas) contains mainly propane, but also some butane and other alkanes. It is a naturally occurring petroleum product and is recovered from oil wells, or distillation and cracking of petroleum products.
Liquefied Petroleum Gas or LPG (also called Autogas) consists mainly of propane, propylene, butane, and butylene in various mixtures. It is produced as a by-product of natural gas processing and petroleum refining. The components of LPG are gases at normal temperatures and pressures. 
Different Energy Content. There are also two main differences in the way that LPG (Propane) and natural gas (Methane) are burnt. The first difference is in the energy content. LPG has a higher calorific value, or energy content, so less gas is required to produce the same amount of heat. Autogas (Propane/Butane mix). Autogas that is sold at petrol stations can be either just Propane or a Propane/Butane mix. Not only is running an LPG car economical, but Autogas is also cleaner burning fuel than petrol, so engine life is actually extended and greenhouse gas emissions reduced.
The pressure at which LPG becomes liquid, called its vapour pressure, likewise varies depending on composition and temperature; for example, it is approximately 220 kilopascals (32 psi) for pure butane at 20 °C (68 °F), and approximately 2,200 kilopascals (320 psi) for pure propane at 55 °C (131 °F). When specifically used as a vehicle fuel it is often referred to as autogas. Varieties of LPG bought and sold include mixes that are primarily propane (C 3H 8), primarily butane (C 4H 10) and, most commonly, mixes including both propane and butane.
LPG or liquefied petroleum gas, is the generic name for propane (C3H8) and butane (C4H10) gas. Both of them are a mixture of hydrocarbon gases that people use as a fuel in heating appliances and vehicles. They can be transported/stored separately or as a mixture. These gases are called as liquefied petroleum gas because they liquefy under moderate pressure and readily vaporize upon release of pressure.
Propane/butane blends are also listed in these specifications. Propylene, butylenes and various other hydrocarbons are usually also present in small concentrations. HD-5 limits the amount of propylene that can be placed in LPG to 5%, and is utilized as an autogas specification. When specifically used as a vehicle fuel it is often referred to as autogas. Varieties of LPG bought and sold include mixes that are primarily propane (C 3H 8), primarily butane (C 4H 10) and, most commonly, mixes including both propane and butane.