Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. I want to cook a roast on Sunday for 7-8 people for H's birthday. I want to cook Beef as H loves it but to be honest it's not my favourite. I think it comes from growing up with dry roast beef. Re: Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. I can't help with the cuts I'm afraid but I always sear the meat before roasting. Apparently this helps keep the juices in when cooking. Unless it's pink or bloody I think it would be dry.
Roast the silverside until it reaches the desired internal temperature: 125 F for medium-rare and 135 F for medium. To cook corned silverside, simmer it in a pot of water with mirepoix until tender, about 2 1/2 to 3 hours. To roast silverside, rinse off the salt and pat it dry or scrape off the excess marinade and pat it dry. Sear the roast on all sides in vegetable oil on the stove over medium-high heat then transfer it to an oven set to 275 degrees Fahrenheit.
Re: Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. Mizz Pink: For medium cook, it should feel like if you press your chin with your finger. Mizz Pink: For medium cook, it should feel like if you press your chin with your finger. Re: Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. I can't help with the cuts I'm afraid but I always sear the meat before roasting. Apparently this helps keep the juices in when cooking. Unless it's pink or bloody I think it would be dry.
Silverside is cut from the hindquarter, just above the leg cut. It gets its name because of the “silverwall” on the side of the cut. This is a long fibrous skin of connective tissue, which has to be removed as it's too tough to eat. It's ideal for slow cooking which will keep it moist. 
Re: Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. A hint for fab gravy is to cut an onion in half and put it in the roasting tin with the joint. when you remove the joint and make the gravy leave the onion in the dish, then strain it out afterwards. Re: Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. I can't help with the cuts I'm afraid but I always sear the meat before roasting. Apparently this helps keep the juices in when cooking. Unless it's pink or bloody I think it would be dry.
Re: Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. I would just say cover it losely with foil, cook it as slowly as you can and baste it with its own juices a few times throughout, oh, and place a tray of water in the bottom of the oven (my butcher gave me that tip and it seems to help). Good luck xx. Re: Foodies-how to keep roast beef moist. I can't help with the cuts I'm afraid but I always sear the meat before roasting. Apparently this helps keep the juices in when cooking. Unless it's pink or bloody I think it would be dry.
- Place a casserole or roasting tin over a high heat, and quickly brown the beef all over. Remove it to a plate. - Throw some chopped root veggies, garlic, and some hardy herbs, such as rosemary, thyme and bay into the casserole/tin. - Sprinkle over a tablespoon of plain flour or corn flour. - Pour in either half a bottle of red wine, 400ml of beef stock, or a mixture of both, and bring to the boil. - Place the beef back in the casserole/tin, and cover with a lid, or a double layer of foil. - Cook in the oven for 2 hours. - Remove the beef to a warmed plate to rest, and cover with foil then a tea towel. - Spoon off any excess fat from the casserole/tin, and strain the cooking juices into a clean pan. If the sauce is too thin, you can boil it hard for a couple of minutes to reduce. Hope this helps. 
Then reduce the oven temperature to 170°C. Add the onions, garlic and thyme around the beef with about 100 ml of water. Cover with foil and cook for about 2 hours, basting from time to time and adding a little more water if necessary. This will keep the meat moist. Re-cover with the foil each time. Uncover the meat for the last 15 minutes of cooking. 
Place the roast, fat side up, in a roasting pan, Dutch oven or slow cooker. Pour in the reserved liquid and spices. Add water or beef broth to bring the level of the liquid halfway up the side of the roast. Cover the roasting pan, Dutch oven or slow cooker. Roast the corned beef in a pre-heated 325 degree Fahrenheit oven for two to four hours or until a meat thermometer registers 160 degrees. Cook in a Dutch oven over medium low heat two to four hours or until the meat can be easily pulled apart with a fork