Question and answer. Comparative morphology _____. A) compares the embryo development of organisms of different species B) compares the anatomy of organisms of different species C) organizes fossils into a timeline of. organism evolution D) analyses the similarities and differences between organisms of the same species.
Comparative anatomy supports Darwin's theory of descent with modification, also known as evolution. A common example of comparative anatomy is the similar bone structures in forelimbs of cats, whales, bats, and humans. All of these appendages consist of the same basic parts; yet, they serve completely different functions. 1 Homologous structures-structures (body parts/anatomy) which are similar in different species because the species have common descent. 2  They may or may not perform the same function. 3  An example is the forelimb structure shared by cats and whales.
Morphology is a branch of biology dealing with the study of the form and structure of organisms and their specific structural features. 1 Functional Morphology is the study of the relationship between the structure and function of morphological features. 2  Experimental Morphology is the study of the effects of external factors upon the morphology of organisms under experimental conditions, such as the effect of genetic mutation.
Biologists try to relate the shape and the functioning of structures in animals and plants.   Morphology is also used in other contexts, such as geomorphology.   Morphology is also a linguistics term, and involves the study of the structure of words in a language and the study of word formation. + 14 others found this useful. Shermaine Knight. Some species, like dogs, have a high degree of morphological plas … ticity-a few generations can turn a wolf into a chihuahua-whereas others, such as humans, have such a low degree that thousands of years of separation yields only minor changes to facial structure and hair type.
Morphology is used in linguistics. It's where how words are made,  formed, shaped, and displayed are studied. It studies pictures used  as words as well.     study … of the mechanical and evolutionary relationships of  morphology to behavior. Some species, like dogs, have a high degree of morphological plas … ticity-a few generations can turn a wolf into a chihuahua-whereas others, such as humans, have such a low degree that thousands of years of separation yields only minor changes to facial structure and hair type.
Comparative anatomy is the study of similarities and differences in the anatomy of different species. 1 Homologous structures-structures (body parts/anatomy) which are similar in different species because the species have common descent. 2  They may or may not perform the same function. 3  An example is the forelimb structure shared by cats and whales.
anatomy. the science dealing with the form and structure of living organisms. comparative anatomy. description and comparison of the form and structure of different animals. developmental anatomy. the changes in form from fertilization to adulthood, including embryology, fetology and postnatal development. 
1 Experimental Morphology is the study of the effects of external factors upon the morphology of organisms under experimental conditions, such as the effect of genetic mutation.  2  Anatomy  is a branch of morphology that deals with the structure of organisms . 1 Functional Morphology is the study of the relationship between the structure and function of morphological features. 2 
1 Comparative Morphology is analysis of the patterns of the locus of structures within the body plan of an organism, and forms the basis of taxonomical categorization. 2  Functional Morphology is the study of the relationship between the structure and function of morphological features. 1 Functional Morphology is the study of the relationship between the structure and function of morphological features. 2  Experimental Morphology is the study of the effects of external factors upon the morphology of organisms under experimental conditions, such as the effect of genetic mutation.
see anatomy anatomy, branch of biology concerned with the study of body structure of various organisms, including humans. Comparative anatomy is concerned with the structural differences of plant and animal forms...... Click the link for more information. Anatomy, Comparative. the science dealing with the study of the structure and development of organs and systems in animals by comparing animals of different taxonomic groups.