Black sand beach formed when lava reaches the sea. I'm not sure why I love black sand beaches so much, but I do... Kalapana is way down in the south east of the Big Island of Hawai'i. You have to walk across a lava field for about 20 minutes to reach this beach. 
Black sand beaches can be formed by the Earth's weather patterns causing lava to erode into the sandy beaches. The tides help break up the lava that rests on the shallow ocean floor -- turning it into a fine sandy material -- and then will redeposit the sand on the beach. Though black sand beaches are a rare occurrence throughout the world, there are several regions where they are common. Islands that have black sand beaches include Iceland, Hawaii, Indonesia and Polynesia. There are some islands in the Caribbean which also have black sand beaches, such as Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Granada and Puerto Rico
Sand is a loose granular material blanketing the beaches, riverbeds and deserts of the world. Composed of different materials that vary depending on location, sand comes in an array of colors including white, black, green and even pink. The most common component of sand is silicon dioxide in the form of quartz. 
Black sand beaches in Hawai'i are found on the islands with the most recent volcanic activity. The pounding of the waves on the hardened lava creates tiny bits of black volcanic glass, which results in, with sufficient quantities, a black sand beach. One of the most famous black sand beaches on the Big Island was Kaimu in the Puna District, also on the southern end. The original beach was covered by the lava flow that swallowed the town of Kalapana in 1990 and 1991.
Caribbean. Several Caribbean islands have black sand beaches, particularly many of the volcanic islands in the Lesser Antilles, including Montserrat, St. Kitts, Nevis, Dominica, St. Lucia and Grenada. South Pacific. You will find a few black sand beaches on islands throughout the South Pacific, including New Zealand and in Indonesia, but Tahiti, the largest island in Polynesia, has some of the most notable. Many are concentrated on the island's northern and eastern coasts
Black sand from a beach in Maui, Hawaii. Black sand is sand that is black in color. One type of black sand is a heavy, glossy, partly magnetic mixture of usually fine sands, found as part of a placer deposit. Another type of black sand, found on beaches near a volcano, consists of tiny fragments of basalt
Black Sand. Source Materials. Black sand can be seen as a layer on top of silica sand in regions with high wave energy, on the flanks of volcanoes, and in areas where most of the source rock is mafic, or dark-colored and poor in silica. It can be composed of a number of different dark minerals-most are iron-rich and heavier than silica s
Black sand beaches are not a common occurrence throughout the world, but do exist in areas with volcanic activity. The sand found on black sand beaches originated from ground lava that has evolved over centuries. Black sand found on the beaches varies in size from larger coarse pieces to finer granules. Though black sand beaches are a rare occurrence throughout the world, there are several regions where they are common. Islands that have black sand beaches include Iceland, Hawaii, Indonesia and Polynesia. There are some islands in the Caribbean which also have black sand beaches, such as Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Granada and Puerto Rico