Quote. &raquo more... Probably none of the Weagles gave five minutes' thought a year to theology or ecclesiology, except Ora, who occasionally stirred up a lot of interesting family irritation by announcing that he was going to become a Catholic, an Episcopalian, a Buddhist, or a Seventh Day Adventist. 
adjective. Causing slight inflammation or other discomfort to the body: chlorine bleaches can be irritant to the skin. More example sentences. 1  Their long, skinny bodies were covered with irritant hairs. 2  Ammonia is an irritant gas with a sharp odor, both as a natural and a manufactured chemical. 3  The welding process produces a complex mixture of irritant gases, coarse metal particulates, and fine metal oxide fum
1 When taken internally it is both a secretory and an excretory cholagogue, but so irritant and powerful that its use in cases of jaundice is generally undesirable. There'll be what you might call a moment of inspiration – a way of seeing or feeling or remembering, an instance or a person that's made a large impression. Like the sand and the oyster, it's a creative irritant.
Patient discussion about irritant. Q. I have stomach problem from many years.This irritates me a lot and I feel troubled by this weight on me. I have stomach problem from many years. I am in my middle age and have given room for all the methods to lose weight and even read books and all and all magazines but in vain. 2. an agent that is toxic, bacterial, physical, or chemical and is capable of inducing functional derangements or organic lesions of the tissues. irritant, chemical, n a chemical agent that causes irritation. The primary agents that have an etiologic relationship to periodontal disease are plaque and calculus.
irritant. adjective irritation, nuisance, annoyance, pain (informal), drag (informal), tease, pest, provocation, gall, goad, aggravation (informal), pain in the neck (informal), pain in the arse (taboo informal), thorn in your flesh He said the issue was not a major irritant. noun. ir·ri·tant. adj. Causing irritation, especially physical irritation. n. A source of irritation: tobacco smoke, a common eye irritant.
Pronunciation: /ˈɪrɪt(ə)nsi/. Example sentences. 1  I think other fish-farmers regarded me with curiosity and some irritancy. 2  There was also a consistent exposure-time interaction for all three symptoms, suggesting a diminution in the potency of formaldehyde's irritancy during the weeks of the semester. Causing slight inflammation or other discomfort to the body: chlorine bleaches can be irritant to the skin. More example sentences. 1  Their long, skinny bodies were covered with irritant hairs. 2  Ammonia is an irritant gas with a sharp odor, both as a natural and a manufactured chemical.
Definition of IRRITANT. : causing irritation; specifically: tending to produce physical irritation. See irritant defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Full Definition of IRRITANT. : something that irritates or excites. See irritant defined for English-language learners.
Sodium laureth sulfate (SLS), or sodium lauryl ether sulfate (SLES), is an anionic detergent and surfactant found in many personal care products (soaps, shampoos, toothpaste etc.). SLES is an inexpensive and very effective foaming agent. Sometimes the number represented by n is specified in the name, for example laureth-2 sulfate. The product is heterogeneous in the number of ethoxyl groups, where n is the mean.
1 I think other fish-farmers regarded me with curiosity and some irritancy. 2  There was also a consistent exposure-time interaction for all three symptoms, suggesting a diminution in the potency of formaldehyde's irritancy during the weeks of the semester. Causing slight inflammation or other discomfort to the body: chlorine bleaches can be irritant to the skin. More example sentences. 1  Their long, skinny bodies were covered with irritant hairs. 2  Ammonia is an irritant gas with a sharp odor, both as a natural and a manufactured chemical.