Emeryville is also home to a few institutes of higher learning. Ex'Pression College, Western Career College and National Holistic Institute are located in the city. Laney College and University of California-Berkeley are located just three miles away in Berkeley and, combined, enroll about 37,000 students annually. Emeryville is home to a thriving arts scene, as are the nearby cities of Berkeley and Oakland. The 45th Street Artists Cooperative provides living and working space for many Emeryville artists. The city's Art in Public Places Program works to commission artistic pieces for public enjoyment.
Summary for Emeryville. Average price per square foot for Emeryville CA was $525, an increase of 15.6% compared to the same period last year. The median sales price for homes in Emeryville CA for Jul 15 to Oct 15 was $425,000 based on 55 home sales. Compared to the same period one year ago, the median home sales price increased 15.2%, or $56,000, and the... 1 – 15 of 38 Apts
The Emeryville station serves Amtrak's California Zephyr, Coast Starlight, San Joaquin, and Capitol Corridor trains. The California Zephyr originates here with service daily to Chicago, Illinois via Salt Lake City, Utah and Denver, Colorado. Buses link the station with San Francisco. The Town of Emeryville was incorporated December 2, 1896. It was named after Joseph Stickney Emery who came during the Gold Rush and acquired large tracts of land in what became known as Emery's. In 1884, Emery was president of a narrow-gauge railroad called the California and Nevada Railroad.
Overview of Emeryville. Located in the heart of the San Francisco Bay Area, Emeryville is home to more than 10,000 residents. The city is a corporate and transportation hub for the Bay Area and offers easy access to Interstates 80, 580 and 880. It also offers Amtrak and Bay Area Rapid Transit Services. Emeryville is home to a thriving arts scene, as are the nearby cities of Berkeley and Oakland. The 45th Street Artists Cooperative provides living and working space for many Emeryville artists. The city's Art in Public Places Program works to commission artistic pieces for public enjoyment.
The Emeryville Amtrak station is an Amtrak station in Emeryville, California that replaced the older Amtrak 16th Street Station in Oakland. The original Beaux-Arts Oakland 16th Street Station was declared unsafe due to unreinforced masonry after sustaining damage in the Loma Prieta earthquake of 1989. Of the 74 California stations served by Amtrak, Emeryville was the fourth busiest in FY2012, boarding or detraining an average of approximately 1,607 passengers daily.
Emeryville is a small city in Alameda County, California, in the United States. The Town of Emeryville was incorporated December 2, 1896. It was named after Joseph Stickney Emery who came during the Gold Rush and acquired large tracts of land in what became known as Emery's. In 1884, Emery was president of a narrow-gauge railroad called the California and Nevada Railroad.
Emeryville was the site of Oaks Park, the home turf of the Pacific Coast League 's Oakland Oaks. The ballpark was located on the block bounded by San Pablo, 45th Street and Park Street (the fourth side was Watts Street). The site is now partly an empty, fenced-off lot, and overlapped by Pixar Studios. The Town of Emeryville was incorporated December 2, 1896. It was named after Joseph Stickney Emery who came during the Gold Rush and acquired large tracts of land in what became known as Emery's. In 1884, Emery was president of a narrow-gauge railroad called the California and Nevada Railroad.
Living in Emeryville, CA. Emeryville's residents enjoy the city's corporate and urban vibe. Because of its function as a business district, the city is heavily populated with condo-style, townhome and apartment buildings; though, single-family homes certainly exist within the city. Emeryville is home to a thriving arts scene, as are the nearby cities of Berkeley and Oakland. The 45th Street Artists Cooperative provides living and working space for many Emeryville artists. The city's Art in Public Places Program works to commission artistic pieces for public enjoyment.
Welcome. Hello and welcome to Emeryville! We hope you enjoy your stay in our city and take advantage of our unique size, location, history, and amenities that make Emeryville one of the best places to visit (or make home) in the Bay Area. Information.
Emeryville [1] is a small city on the San Francisco Bay that acts as a gateway to the East Bay from San Francisco. It exists at the intersection of three major freeways: I-80, I-580, and I-880. Emeryville actually features many of the most modern hotels in the Berkeley /Emeryville/ Oakland region. Thus, you may choose to stay in Emeryville while actually spending your days in the other (more interesting) cities. 1  Woodfin Suites Hotel, 5800 Shellmound Street.