This code states that you may have a maximum riser height of 7 3/4 inches and tread run of no less than 10 inches. Arke stairs has spiral and modular stair kits for the do-it-yourselfer. First determine the size of your stairwell, making sure to allow for the proper headroom to accommodate the stairs. Knowing the number of risers tells you the number of treads — 15 (the sixteenth riser will be positioned approaching the upper floor with no tread on top). The run of the stair will then be 15 treads at 10 inches per tread, or 150 inches of total run.
1 Divide Total Rise By Maximum Riser Height-Before you can begin calculating your stair stringer layout, you'll need to measure the total rise. 2  For stairs that land on the ground, the total rise is the distance from the ground to the top of the finished floor. 
This tells us that we need 5 risers each 7-3/8 tall-you can use the Feet-Inch Calculator to convert any decimal number to an equivalent fractional length. To learn all about code requirements for stairs and how to build them step-by-step, check out the section on Stairs and Railings. If you don't like to use fuzzy rules of thumb, check out the stair rise/run table. To figure out what the exact riser height should be, we divide the distance from the top of the deck to the ground. Whatever number we choose for our riser must divide evenly into that total height measurement.
I installed the stair treads with 2 deck screws. The treads are 5/4x6 deck boards, which are 5  wide. The pre-cut stringers have a tread dimension of 11 inches, so two deck boards (or 2x6's) fit exactly. But this leaves no tread overhang, or nosing, which is normal on stairs with enclosed risers. Without the nosing, people tend to stub their feet on the riser, and possibly trip. 
This number must ALWAYS be rounded up to the next whole number, 13 in this case. This is the number of risers in the staircase. Once you’ve determined the number of risers, you need to determine riser height. Take the total rise measurement (104 inches) and divide by the number of risers (13). 104 / 13 = 8 Stairs are cut to the nearest 1/16”. In this particular example the riser height is exact. 
So for our 10 run, a stair rise of between 7 and 7.5 would work great. If you don't like to use fuzzy rules of thumb, check out the stair rise/run table. To figure out what the exact riser height should be, we divide the distance from the top of the deck to the ground. Whatever number we choose for our riser must divide evenly into that total height measurement.
1 So, if your riser is 7 inches (17.8 cm) tall, your tread should be anywhere from 9 to 11 inches (23 to 28 cm) long. 2  This makes the treads long enough to comfortably fit the average foot on and high enough to make stepping easy. 1 The rule of thumb for treads and risers is that the sum of each should equal between 16 and 18 inches (40 and 45 cm). 2  So, if your riser is 7 inches (17.8 cm) tall, your tread should be anywhere from 9 to 11 inches (23 to 28 cm) long.
How to Use the EZ Stair Calculator. Note: For commercial stairs, I.B.C. code requires a maximum RISE of 7 and minimum RUN of 11. 
When building deck stairs you will need to determine the total height of the deck at the stairs. This is the change in elevation from the top of the deck to where you expect the stairs to land. Place a level straight out from the deck and measure to the ground or landing using a tape measurer. You will also need to establish the tread depth and riser height for each step. The minimum tread depth is 10 and the maximum riser height is 8. In most cases this will be a 7-1/2 rise and 10-1/2 run. This will allow you to use two deck boards for each tread with a 1/2 reveal. Once you have determined the total stair height, tread depth, and riser height you can plug the numbers into the decks.com stair stringer calculator to find the stringer length, stair projection, and the angle of the stairs