Spain situated in South-western Europe is a member of the European Union. Spain is bordered by Mediterranean Sea, Gibraltar, France, Andorra, Bay of Biscay, Atlantic Ocean and Portugal. Apart from small exclave in France most of Spain lies on the Iberian Peninsula. Spain is the fourth largest country in the European Union. The country is a member of the United Nations, European Union, NATO, OECD, and WTO. Spain is a developed country and is the twelfth largest economy in the world. Spain is the world's 52nd-largest country
Spain (/ˈspeɪn/ ; Spanish: Espana [españa]. ), esˈpaɲa officially The kingdom Of (Spain: Spanish reino De), espana españa is a sovereign state located On The iberian peninsula In. southwestern europe In the Middle Ages, the area was conquered by Germanic tribes and later by the Moors. Spain emerged as a unified country in the 15th century, following the marriage of the Catholic Monarchs and the completion of the centuries-long reconquest, or Reconquista, of the peninsula from the Moors in 1492.
With an area of 505,990 km 2 (195,360 sq mi), Spain is the second largest country in Western Europe and the European Union, and the fourth largest country in Europe. By population, Spain is the sixth largest in Europe and the fifth in the European Union. In the Middle Ages, the area was conquered by Germanic tribes and later by the Moors. Spain emerged as a unified country in the 15th century, following the marriage of the Catholic Monarchs and the completion of the centuries-long reconquest, or Reconquista, of the peninsula from the Moors in 1492.
Highest Point: Pico de Teide (Canary Islands) at 12,198 feet (3,718 m). Spain is a country located in southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula to the south of France and Andorra and to the east of Portugal. It has coastlines on the Bay of Biscay (a part of the Atlantic Ocean) and the Mediterranean Sea. However it also has territory in Morocco, the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, islands off the coast of Morocco as well as the Canary Islands in the Atlantic and the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean Sea. All of this land area makes Spain the second largest country in Europe behind France.
Today most of Spain's area is located in southwestern Europe with the mainland of the country that is south of France and the Pyrenees Mountains and east of Portugal. However it also has territory in Morocco, the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, islands off the coast of Morocco as well as the Canary Islands in the Atlantic and the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean Sea. All of this land area makes Spain the second largest country in Europe behind France.
Definition of SPAIN. country SW Europe in the Iberian Peninsula; a kingdom ∗ Madrid area 194,881 square miles (504,742 square kilometers), pop 39,141,000. Spain or Spanish Es·pa·na \ña-ā-ˈspae\. ˈSPä. nyae nyä advertisement country SW Europe in the Iberian Peninsula; a kingdom ∗ Madrid area 194,881 square miles (504,742 square kilometers), pop 39,141,000. Spain or Spanish Es·pa·na \ña-ā-ˈspae\. ˈspä nyae nyä
RELATIVE LOCATION: Located in far southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula Spain is geographically positioned in the northern, as well as the eastern and western hemispheres. Spain is bordered by the countries of Andorra, France and Portugal, and by the British colony of Gibraltar. The country is almost completely surrounded by water, including the Atlantic Ocean, Bay of Biscay, Strait of Gibraltar, Alboran, Balearic and Mediterranean Seas.
A country of southwest Europe on the Iberian Peninsula. Inhabited since the Stone Age, the region was successively colonized in ancient times by Phoenicians, Greeks, Carthage, and Rome. Galicia-a region (and former kingdom) in northwestern Spain on the Atlantic and the Bay of Biscay. Valencia-a city in eastern Spain on the Mediterranean; Valencia is the third largest city in Spain. Lusitania-ancient region and Roman province on the Iberian Peninsula; corresponds roughly to modern Portugal and parts of Spain