Nana /nana/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced NAH-nah. It is of Hawaiian origin. Name of a spring month and the name of a star. The Spanish Nana is a pet form of Ana. Nana and Nanny have come to mean grandmother or person who looks after children. Affiliated girl names: Anne and Nan. 
Hello, Guest. Nanna is a name from Norse mythology that is among the Top 30 names in contemporary Denmark. Popular in Norway in the 19th century, Nanna may also be considered a short form of a range of names, from Anna to Johanna to Marianne. As widespread as it is in Scandinavia, though, it's hard to imagine Nanna making a mark as a girl's name in modern day America, given its use as a name for grandmothers. 
[ 2 syll. nan-na, na-nna ] The baby girl name Nanna is pronounced N AA-Naa- †. Nanna is of Hebrew, Hawaiian, and Old Norse origin, and it is predominantly used in the English and Scandinavian languages. Old Norse origin, Scandinavian use: It is derived from the element nanp meaning 'daring, brave'. See also the related form, Nanne (Scandinavian). Nanna is an infrequently used baby name for girls. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. In 2012, within the group of girl names directly linked to Nanna, Anna was the most widely used.
Alternately, Nanna is considered a Scandinavian name, from the Old Norse “nanþ” meaning “daring” (perhaps related to Old English neðan, and the ancient Germanic nendan to risk, venture). In Norse mythology, Nanna was a beautiful Scandinavian goddess and the wife of Balder (son of Odin and Frigg). One of the reasons Americans and other English-speakers don’t use the name Nanna is because it’s too closely related to our words “nanny” and “nana” which we borrowed from the Greek word “nanna” meaning “aunt”. From this perspective, the name probably feels to “grandmotherly” for the average U.S. parent.
Look up なな in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Nana is a given name either feminine (in Japan (なな, ナナ, 奈々, 那奈 or 奈南, among others) , Korea (Korean: 나나) or Europe (Georgian: ნანა or Greek: Nάνα)) or masculine (in Ghana or India). It has different meanings depending on the language of origin. In Georgia, Nana is the fifth most popular given name for girls. In Ghana, among the Akans and particularly with the Akyems, Ashanti and the Akuapim, Nana is used as the title of a King or Queen, it signifies royalty. 
Possibly derived from Old Norse nanþ meaning daring, brave. In Norse legend she was a goddess who died of grief when her husband Balder was killed. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Nanna. There are two possible etymological origins for the female name Nanna. For Jewish people, Nanna developed as a diminutive or pet form of Channah (from the root Chanan) meaning “grace, favor, kindness” (the same root that gave English-speakers the female names Hannah and Anna). One of the reasons Americans and other English-speakers don’t use the name Nanna is because it’s too closely related to our words “nanny” and “nana” which we borrowed from the Greek word “nanna” meaning “aunt”. From this perspective, the name probably feels to “grandmotherly” for the average U.S. parent.
Nanna /nan-na/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Nanna's root is Hebrew, and the name Nanna means He (God) has favored me. Nanna is a version of Nan (Hebrew): version and nickname of Ann. Compare surname Nunno. Nanna is an uncommon first name for women but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#42134 out of 150436, Top 28%). (2000 U.S. Census). Nan, Nana, Nanci, Nancie, Nancy (#752 last year) , Nanette, Nannette, Nannie and Nettie are the popular varying forms of Nanna (not ranked) listed in the Top 1000