What You Need to Know. Benefiber is a supplement company with a Healthy Shape option. According to the product claims, the brand, derived from wheat dextrin, can curb cravings with just two servings per day. The fiber mixes completely into water, juice or milk allowing the dieter to take it on the run. Benefiber is made up of fiber, just like many other supplements on the market. The ingredient is widely available for a fraction of the cost. “Fiber is a good option for overall health, but Benefiber does not offer evidence that this product is better than others,” claims our Research Editor.
And. unlike gritty fiber supplements, it's taste-free and completely dissolvable. Benefiber ® is a simple-to-use 100% natural fiber supplement that mixes. clear so you can mix it with just about anything. Try adding it to your. coffee, juice, yogurt or in your cooking and baking. Save on your next purchase of Benefiber ® with our coupon. 1  About.
As with all fibre supplements, the most common side effect of Benefibre ® is mild flatulence. Less common side effects can include gastrointestinal pain or discomfort, diarrhea, nausea, and stomach pressure with a sensation of fullness. 
Benefiber is made from wheat dextrin, which is a natural soluble fiber produced by breaking down the starches found in wheat. Like soluble fiber obtained from whole foods, wheat dextrin helps you feel full, so it can help you eat less. A typical serving of Benefiber provides about 3 grams of soluble fiber. In the large intestine, some wheat dextrin is fermented by bacteria, which produces energy and supports the growth of good bacteria.
Product Name: Benefiber. Benefiber is a fibre supplement that can be used to help in the treatment of mild medical conditions such as mild constipation or trouble swallowing. It can also be used to ensure a person receives adequate fibre in their diet in cases such as: 1  Poor teeth requiring a pureed diet. 2  Limited dietary intake. 3  Immobility. Indication. Benefiber is a fibre supplement that can be used to help in the treatment of mild medical conditions such as mild constipation or trouble swallowing. It can also be used to ensure a person receives adequate fibre in their diet in cases such as:
Benefiber can help the gastrointestinal tract of those suffering from pain, diarrhea, constipation and irregularity. Benefiber consists of a wheat dextrin formula which can add bulk to the stool for diarrhea sufferers. It can also make stools softer for those with constipation. Long term use has been shown to reduce the gastrointestinal problems of those suffering from symptoms, including those with Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).
As a result, Benefiber may be more tolerable than other fiber supplements. Some types of soluble fiber, such as wheat dextrin, have a laxative effect. Benefiber is a bulk-forming laxative because wheat dextrin absorbs water as it travels through your digestive tract, and the extra water creates larger, softer stool. When stool bulk increases, it stimulates muscles in the intestine to contract, which pushes waste out. Like soluble fiber obtained from whole foods, wheat dextrin helps you feel full, so it can help you eat less. A typical serving of Benefiber provides about 3 grams of soluble fiber. In the large intestine, some wheat dextrin is fermented by bacteria, which produces energy and supports the growth of good bacteria.
Benefiber is a fiber supplement which has recently been reformulated. The old formula was made from partially hydrolyzed guar gum (PHGG), which comes from the seed of the cluster bean and is a form of soluble fiber. The new formula is made from wheat dextrin. As far as I can tell, some of the Benefiber products are still using the old guar gum formulation (eg: Benefiber chewables with calcium), and some are using the new wheat dextrin formulation (eg: Benefiber powder and caplets).
Benefiber can help to treat both diarrhea and constipation, adding bulk to the stool for diarrhea sufferers and making stools softer for constipation sufferers. It is available in powder, caplet, or chewable tablet form. As far as I can tell, some of the Benefiber products are still using the old guar gum formulation (eg: Benefiber chewables with calcium), and some are using the new wheat dextrin formulation (eg: Benefiber powder and caplets).