A: In order to become a nurse practitioner, one must first acquire a nursing degree. You can opt for ADN, LPN or bachelor's degree in nursing (BSN) from a state approved school. After completing a nursing program, candidates must take the licensing examination in their state.
Licensed RN's who are looking to become family nurse practitioners but who do not hold a bachelor's degree can earn their MSN online from Simmons School of Nursing and Health Science.
Nurse Practitioner Career Basics. Nurse practitioners (NPs) are a type of Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (APRN) whose specialized education and clinical training allow them to provide higher levels of care and perform a variety of tasks that RNs are not licensed to do.
Nurse practitioners get advanced training in nursing so they can take their careers a step farther. By getting graduate-level education, they can operate independently or under the supervision of a physician.
A: To become a nurse practitioner at the quickest, you can take up the certificate of nursing which is a one year program and the shortest to get nursing education. Certificate in nursing allows students to be able to practice and have introductory level knowledge and skills in the field of nursing.
A nurse practitioner (NP) is an advanced practice registered nurse who provides health care services similar to those of a physician. NPs may choose to specialize in family, pediatric or geriatric nursing.
A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school.
Family nurse practitioners (FNPs) can work with a ride range of patients including children, adults and the elderly. With a shortage of physicians already occurring in the U.S., FNPs can step in to help provide families with their primary care needs, whether in an underserved rural area or in a busy, urban setting.
Registered nurses with a bachelor's degree who are interested in becoming nurse practitioners can qualify for the position by earning a master's or doctoral degree in nursing. Many nurse practitioners specialize in a specific area of medicine, such as pediatrics or family medicine during their graduate study.
To become an advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) of any type, you first need to be a registered nurse (RN). On average, nurse practitioners have 10 years of nursing experience before deciding to complete the education necessary to become an APRN.