4. Request Direct Deposit. Once your tax return is accepted and the refund approved, you can choose to have your money directly deposited in your bank account within a week. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process. 5. If you paper file, it will take three to four weeks for the IRS to process the return and acknowledge your refund. If you e-file, you will get a notice of arrival within 24 hours and confirmation of refund within 72 hours.
You should expect to receive the card in the mail 7-10 days after the IRS accepts your tax return. Once EPS processes your fees, the remainder of your refund will be deposited onto the card. Check your E-1 prepaid tax refund card status with EPS. E-1 Card Fees. Once your tax return has been received and processed, the IRS will issue you a paper check and send it through the US Postal Service. It generally takes at least twice as long as direct deposit to receive your refund through the mail.
If you requested a refund of tax withheld on a Form 1042-S by filing a Form 1040NR, we will need additional time to process the return. Please allow up to 6 months from the original due date of the 1040NR return or the date you actually filed the 1040NR, whichever is later to receive any refund due. The IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days. However, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. The easiest way to check your refund status is by using our automated tools. Where’s My Refund? has the most up to date information available about your refund.
Taxpayers will typically see a status update within 24 hours after the IRS accepts your return or as long as four weeks after you mail in your tax forms. An estimated refund check date will be visible on the site once you correctly enter your information. The date is subject to change, so check back once per week to see if the refund date was updated within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in.
1 You will not be able to start checking the status of your tax refund for 4 weeks if you mail a paper tax return. 2  Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
4. IRS Check by Mail. Once your tax return has been received and processed, the IRS will issue you a paper check and send it through the US Postal Service. It generally takes at least twice as long as direct deposit to receive your refund through the mail. Check the status of your tax refund check
If you filed a tax return by mail, your refund will be issued within six weeks from the date the return was received by the IRS, whether or not you opted for a paper check or an electronic deposit. Verify Tax Refund is Correct. Once a refund is received, taxpayers should check to ensure the amount is correct. If a check or electronic deposit arrives for more than the amount listed on the tax return, the check should not be cashed. A notice will be sent out from the IRS explaining the discrepancy in amount.