Description: The mallard is one of the most recognized of all ducks and is the ancestor of several domestic breeds. Its wide range has given rise to several distinct populations. 
Mallard Duck Distribution. The Mallard Duck lives in subtropical and temperate regions. They are found around North Africa, New Zealand, Australia, North America, Asia, and Europe. They tend to live in the wetland areas where there is plenty of humidity. One of the fun things to watch with the Mallard Duck is them with their young. They may sometimes ride on the back of the mother as she is in the water. When they trail behind her they make a straight line and stick very close behind her. They are vocal birds and use those sounds to communicate
The green head and yellow bill of the mallard duck is a familiar sight to many people living in the Northern hemisphere. In fact, the mallard is thought to be the most abundant and wide-ranging duck on Earth. 
When most people think of ducks, they think of the Mallard Duck. The Mallard is a common duck mostly found in North America, Europe, and Asia. The Mallard Duck is also found in Central America, Australia, and New Zealand. The scientific name for the Mallard Duck is Anas Platyrhynchos. It is part of the species of Dabbling Ducks. Mallard Ducks enjoy the water and usually are found near rivers, ponds, or other bodies of water.
The mallard (/ˈmaelɑrd/ ˈmælɑrd /or/) ˈmaelərd ˈmælərd or (Wild duck) anas platyrhynchos is a dabbling duck which breeds throughout the temperate And, Subtropical, Americas, europe Asia And, north africa and has been Introduced To, New, Zealand, Australia, Peru, Brazil, Uruguay, argentina Chile The falkland Islands And. south africa The breeding male mallard is unmistakable, with a glossy bottle-green head and white collar which demarcates the head from the purple-tinged brown breast, grey brown wings, and a pale grey belly. The rear of the male is black, with the dark tail having white borders.
Introduction to Mallard Duck. The Mallard Duck is closely related to domesticated ducks. There are over 60 subspecies that have been identified. The overall size of this duck can depend on the subspecies of parents, location, and food resources. They range in size from 20 to 26 inches long. One of the fun things to watch with the Mallard Duck is them with their young. They may sometimes ride on the back of the mother as she is in the water. When they trail behind her they make a straight line and stick very close behind her. They are vocal birds and use those sounds to communicate
The mallard is about 20-28 inches in length and has a wingspan of about three feet. It has a blue patch on the top side of its wings with a white line around it. The male mallard has a green head and neck with a white ring bordering it. It has a brown chest, a whitish-gray underside, brown wings and a yellow bill. 
Description. The Mallard Duck is the most common of the North American Ducks. The male has a bright green head, white neck band, rusty breast, pale grey body and a violet blue speculum bordered in white. He has black central tail feathers which curl up (“Duck Tail”). His beak is yellow and his legs are orange. The Mallard Duck is the king of city parks. It is the ancestor of most domestic ducks except the Muscovy. It commonly interbreeds in these city parks, where all sorts of unusual combinations of colors and patterns can be found in the hybrids! They keep constant watch so a predator won’t surprise them.
Full Definition of MALLARD. : a common and widely distributed wild duck (Anas platyrhynchos) of the northern hemisphere the males of which have a green head and white-ringed neck and which is the source of the domestic ducks. See mallard defined for English-language learners. See mallard defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : a common and widely distributed wild duck (Anas platyrhynchos) of the northern hemisphere the males of which have a green head and white-ringed neck and which is the source of the domestic ducks