Wisteria grows best if planted in the ground but it can be grown in a container. Plant the wisteria vine in a container that’s 2 to 4 times the size of the one it originally came in. Water and feed regularly. To rejuvenate overgrown wisteria, you can prune back hard (prune all shoots off the main trunk down to 3 or 5 buds, or instead, about 3 feet below where you want the mature length to be. Cut the main branches back to 4 to 6 feet. Remove all suckers).
Step 1. Start with a healthy, young wisteria plant from a greenhouse or nursery, and choose a planting spot in sun or partial shade. The soil should have good drainage, so any place where water tends to pool won't be a good choice. Allow plenty of space for wisteria, because the vines can extend more 25 feet as they twine around a fence or trellis, and the clusters of flowers can grow up to 18 inches in length. Wisteria can become invasive, and will need an occasional pruning to keep it under control.
Culture. Wisteria can grow well in full sun or heavy shade. It will perform well growing in a wide variety of soil types, preferring well-drained and moist, rich soils. The plant is easy to establish and requires little care. It can be propagated by cuttings and seeds. Wisteria is a twining deciduous vine that produces many clusters of fragrant and beautiful flowers. This plant's rapid growth makes it useful as a cover for structures within the landscape such as trellises. Wisteria can easily be pruned and trained. In fact, it is required to prevent the plant from growing rampant.
Overview. With its sturdy vines and clusters of fragrant blooms, wisteria is one of those impossible-to-miss plants. Allow plenty of space for wisteria, because the vines can extend more 25 feet as they twine around a fence or trellis, and the clusters of flowers can grow up to 18 inches in length. Wisteria can become invasive, and will need an occasional pruning to keep it under control.
Wisterias flower in the spring with occasional summer flowers. Most begin flowering within 3-4 years of planting. After a long summer, established wisterias may form pendant, bean-like seedpods that are an additional feature. Wisteria prefers a sunny position, but can be grown in slight shade. Plant in a well-drained, fertile soil. If buying a new wisteria, always choose one that has been grown from cuttings or by grafting. Seed raised wisterias flower less reliably, and also take longer to flower. 
1 Wisteria can be propagated by seed, cuttings, layering, or grafting. 2  Wisteria has a delicious scent. 3  This plant is suitable to grow in most temperate zones and sub-tropical zones. 4  It is not suitable for tropical zones. 5  The wisteria is perfect for winter sun and summer shade. 6  Wisteria likes cool winters. Tips. 1  Wisteria can be propagated by seed, cuttings, layering, or grafting. 2  Wisteria has a delicious scent. 3  This plant is suitable to grow in most temperate zones and sub-tropical zones. 4  The wisteria is perfect for winter sun and summer shade. 5
Wisteria blooms in shades of purple, blue, pink or white. Wisteria is a deciduous vine with interesting, gnarled stems and spectacular blooms that fill the air with a sweet scent in springtime. Container growing is an effective way to grow this fast-growing vine, which easily outgrows its boundaries. To prevent stem rot, plant the wisteria at the same depth the plant is situated in the nursery container. Install a sturdy piece of wood or bamboo, 4 to 5 feet tall, immediately after planting, as training for this rambunctious vine begins immediately.
Tips. 1  Wisteria can be propagated by seed, cuttings, layering, or grafting. 2  Wisteria has a delicious scent. 3  This plant is suitable to grow in most temperate zones and sub-tropical zones. 4  It is not suitable for tropical zones. 5  The wisteria is perfect for winter sun and summer shade. 6  Wisteria likes cool winters. Tips. 1  Wisteria can be propagated by seed, cuttings, layering, or grafting. 2  Wisteria has a delicious scent. 3  This plant is suitable to grow in most temperate zones and sub-tropical zones. 4  The wisteria is perfect for winter sun and summer shade. 5
Growing Conditions. Wisteria prefers full sunlight. Although the plant tolerates partial shade, too much shade results in scanty blooms. To grow wisteria in a planter, begin with a container only slightly larger than the nursery container, and then repot the wisteria gradually as the plant grows. Eventually, wisteria may require a whiskey barrel or other large planter. To prevent stem rot, plant the wisteria at the same depth the plant is situated in the nursery container. Install a sturdy piece of wood or bamboo, 4 to 5 feet tall, immediately after planting, as training for this rambunctious vine begins immediately.
Wisteria grows best if planted in the ground, and adapts well to a sturdy fence in full or part sun. But, it can be grown in a planter, too. Plant the wisteria vine in a container that’s 2 to 4 times the size of the one it originally came in. Water and feed regularly. To rejuvenate overgrown wisteria, you can prune back hard (prune all shoots off the main trunk down to 3 or 5 buds, or instead, about 3 feet below where you want the mature length to be. Cut the main branches back to 4 to 6 feet. Remove all suckers).