Weak Acids. A weak acid only partially dissociates in water to give H + and the anion. Examples of weak acids include hydrofluoric acid, HF, and acetic acid, CH 3 COOH. Weak acids include: 1  Molecules that contain an ionizable proton. 2  A molecule wih a formula starting with H usually is an acid. 3  Organic acids containing one or more carboxyl group, -COOH. 4  The H is ionizable. 5  Anions with an ionizable proton.
Strong Acids and Bases. Acids and bases that are completely ionized when dissolved in water are called strong acids and strong bases There are only a few strong acids and bases, and everyone should know their names and properties. These acids are often used in industry and everyday life. 
Due to the complete dissociation of strong acids in aqueous solution, the concentration of hydronium ions in the water is equal to the total concentration (ionized and un-ionized) of the acid introduced to solution: [H + ] = [A − ] = [HA] total and pH = −log[H + ]. For concentrated solutions of strong acids with a pH less than about zero, the Hammett acidity function is a better measure of acidity than the pH. Sulfonic acids, which are organic oxyacids, are a class of strong acids. A common example is p-toluenesulfonic acid (tosylic acid).
If HA is a strong acid, then the A-ion has a very weak attraction for the proton, which is therefore easily transferred to a water molecule. Also recall that the A - , since it can accept the proton back, can function as a base and is called the conjugate base of the acid HA. 
Most acids are weak acids. A weak acid is an acid that dissociates incompletely, releasing only some of its hydrogen atoms into the solution. Thus, it is less capable than a strong acid at donating protons. These acids have higher pKa than strong acids, which release all of their hydrogen atoms when dissolved in water. For concentrated solutions of strong acids with a pH less than about zero, the Hammett acidity function is a better measure of acidity than the pH. Sulfonic acids, which are organic oxyacids, are a class of strong acids. A common example is p-toluenesulfonic acid (tosylic acid).
Hydrochloric Acid or HCl is a strong acid. This is because it dissociates completely in water (the very definition of a strong acid/base) into H+ and Cl-. Since H+ are f … ree in the water it causes the water to become more acidic and therefore an acid. The dissociation coupled with the free H+ after dissociation give it the classification of a strong acid.
Strong acids and pH pH is a measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions in a solution. Strong acids like hydrochloric acid at the sort of concentrations you normally use in the lab have a pH around 0 to 1. The lower the pH, the higher the concentration of hydrogen ions in the solution. STRONG AND WEAK ACIDS This page explains the terms strong and weak as applied to acids. As a part of this it defines and explains what is meant by pH, Ka and pKa. It is important that you don't confuse the words strong and weak with the terms concentrated and dilute.
The acid illustrated is hydrochloric acid. Pure hydrochloric acid is a gas, but it dissolves easily in water to produce a solution of hydrogen ion and chloride ion. Since nearly all of it is dissociated in water, it is called a strong acid. Acids that do not dissociate completely are called weak acids.
Bases can be thought of as the chemical opposite of acids. However, some strong acids are able to act as bases. Bases and acids are seen as opposites because the effect of an acid is to increase the hydronium (H 3 O +) concentration in water, whereas bases reduce this concentration. A reaction between an acid and base is called neutralization. 
The strength of an acid refers to its ability or tendency to lose a proton (H +). A strong acid is one that completely ionizes (dissociates) in a solution. In water, one mole of a strong acid HA dissolves yielding one mole of H + (as hydronium ion H 3 O +) and one mole of the conjugate base, A − . For concentrated solutions of strong acids with a pH less than about zero, the Hammett acidity function is a better measure of acidity than the pH. Sulfonic acids, which are organic oxyacids, are a class of strong acids. A common example is p-toluenesulfonic acid (tosylic acid).