1 Outsourcing, the process of contracting a business function to someone else. 2  Insourcing, a process of contracting a business function to someone else to be completed in-house. 3  Global sourcing, a procurement strategy aimed at exploiting global efficiencies in production. 1 Tradegood sourcing, a process of finding the right suppliers who have gone through the unique Tradegood Business done right verification process, as a leading in quality and safety company. 2  Sourcing (personnel) , the practice of recruiting talent using strategic search techniques.
The actual act of boss for candidates is performed by either a recruiter (be it an internal corporate recruiter or agency recruiter) or a dedicated recruiter just focused on the sourcing function. The definition of sourcing needs to be clearly defined by what it is, as much as what it is not. Sourcing is a talent acquisition discipline which is focused on the identification, assessment and engagement of skilled worker candidates through proactive recruiting techniques.
In business, the term word sourcing refers to a number of procurement practices, aimed at finding, evaluating and engaging suppliers for acquiring goods and services : 1 Tradegood sourcing, a process of finding the right suppliers who have gone through the unique Tradegood Business done right verification process, as a leading in quality and safety company. 2  Sourcing (personnel) , the practice of recruiting talent using strategic search techniques.
In business, the term word sourcing refers to a number of procurement practices, aimed at finding, evaluating and engaging suppliers for acquiring goods and services 1  : Outsourcing, the process of contracting a business function to someone else. 1 Tradegood sourcing, a process of finding the right suppliers who have gone through the unique Tradegood Business done right verification process, as a leading in quality and safety company. 2  Sourcing (personnel) , the practice of recruiting talent using strategic search techniques.
The first Sourcing definition i.e. strategic sourcing is a concept that was popularized by major consultancy companies in the late 1980’s 1990’s and is now considered a standard purchasing strategy used by many blue chip companies. However, the most popular definition of sourcing is strategic sourcing. The second sourcing definition i.e. global sourcing is sourcing products and (sometimes services) irrespective of national boundaries. It is particularly popular within the EEC countries in Europe and Asia. Both of these areas are less concerned with geographic boundaries
In the recruiting industry, therefore, sourcing when referred to as a tactic, often means the practice of finding specialized candidates on the Internet or through phone work. 
The concept of  product sourcing is one every e-tailer needs to understand. If you sell products online, then product sourcing is a critical part of your business. It's also something you're already doing, whether or not you realize it. A simple definition of product sourcing is finding products to resell through your business.. As easy as that sounds, mastering this process can mean the difference between success and failure for your eCommerce business. 
Acqui-sourcing (adjective) meaning (acquisition + sourcing) translates to sourcing for acquisition; is a newly coined term, word or phrase, that is in the process of entering common use. Acquisourcing is a solution for companies that are interested in acquihiring. Sourcing is a talent acquisition discipline which is focused on the identification, assessment and engagement of skilled worker candidates through proactive recruiting techniques.