Without the Wisdom Panel® Mixed Breed Analysis, identifying your dog’s mix is just a guessing game. Try your luck and see what just guessing reveals. But be sure to get the real test to really know. 
Ad. 2. Look at your dog's ears. Different breeds have different types of ears. Your mutt's ears can be an indicator of what breeds contributed to his looks. 1  Bat ears are large ears that stand upright on a dog's head. 2  They are large in proportion to the head. 3  They may be slightly rounded.
Mutt. A mixed-breed dog is a testament to nature. Without any input — some might say interference — from humans, the mixed breed defies description. Available in all sizes, shapes, colors, and patterns, he might have a long snout or a short nose. No matter what the heritage of your mixed-breed dog, check his ears once a week for dirt, redness, or a bad odor that can indicate an infection. Also wipe them out weekly with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to prevent problems.
Basically, the survey asks you a few questions about your experience in labeling the breeds of mixed-breed dogs and then shows you two pictures (front and side view) of 20 different dogs with their height & weight listed. And then, you get to pick what the dog's predominent breed is from a selection of 180 dog breeds. 
What is a mixed breed? A mixed-breed dog is a dog that is not a purebred; also called a mongrel, cur or mutt. Mongrels and mutts are technically dogs of unknown ancestry and questionable parentage. A hybrid, on the other hand, is a dog that is not purebreds, but whose ancestry is known. 
1 For instance, a test might be able to tell you that your mutt is 60% lab with 30% dachshund and 10% of other in the mix. 2  Not surprisingly, the more breeds in your dog's lineage, the less accurate the test will be in establishing the major breeds. Use the visual clues you have recorded to search for breeds and make your best guess.  No matter how detailed your description is, you'll never be able to make a completely accurate determination of your dog's breed.
If you can determine one or more of the breeds that went into your mixed breed's heritage, it's worth researching the health concerns common to that breed or breeds. And like all dogs, mixed breeds are prone to certain conditions and diseases. 1  Allergies: Allergies are a common ailment in dogs. No matter what the heritage of your mixed-breed dog, check his ears once a week for dirt, redness, or a bad odor that can indicate an infection. Also wipe them out weekly with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to prevent problems.
You can't have a large mutt without him having a large-breed dog as a part of his genetic makeup. 1  For instance, if your dog is very small (in the 5 to 10 pound range), he likely has some influence from the toy breeds, such as toy poodles, chihuahuas, papillons, and Shih Tzus. 2. Look at your dog's ears. Different breeds have different types of ears. Your mutt's ears can be an indicator of what breeds contributed to his looks. 1  Bat ears are large ears that stand upright on a dog's head. 2  They are large in proportion to the head. 3  They may be slightly rounded.
Their fur is mottled (mixed up, without clear defined edges) in brown and white. All of their fur is white (okay, they're a mutt so maybe there's a spot or two of another color, but 95% or more is white). Their fur is 95% or more golden or yellow. From light light yellow all the way to deep golden almost-brown. Their fur is 95% or more red or brownish-red. Answer a few (well, more than a few!) questions and maybe you'll find out. I am the kind of person who loves dogs, loves mutts, and goes to the shelter or to rescue groups to get a dog. The more Heinz 57, the better.
Look at your dog's ears. Different breeds have different types of ears. Your mutt's ears can be an indicator of what breeds contributed to his looks. 1  Bat ears are large ears that stand upright on a dog's head. 2  They are large in proportion to the head. 2. Look at your dog's ears. Different breeds have different types of ears. Your mutt's ears can be an indicator of what breeds contributed to his looks. 1  Bat ears are large ears that stand upright on a dog's head. 2  They are large in proportion to the head. 3  They may be slightly rounded.