1 Freshly expressed breast milk can be stored in the back of the refrigerator for up to five days in clean conditions. 2  However, use or freezer storage within three days is optimal. 3  Deep freezer. 4  Freshly expressed breast milk can be stored in the back of a deep freezer for up to 12 months. 1 Refrigerator. 2  Freshly expressed breast milk can be stored in the back of the refrigerator for up to five days in clean conditions. 3  However, use or freezer storage within three days is optimal. 4  Deep freezer.
That depends on how and where you store it. Under most conditions, breast milk stays fresh at room temperature (60 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit) for three to four hours. But expressed milk that has little bacteria can last for six to eight hours if room temperature remains on the cooler side. 1 Frozen breast milk stays fresh for two weeks in a refrigerator that has a single door to the freezer and refrigerator compartments. 2  In a refrigerator that has a separate door to the freezer, frozen breast milk lasts for 3 to 6 months.
You can add freshly expressed milk to thawed milk as long as the freshly expressed milk is cooled first and the milk is still used within 24 hours. Never mix warm milk with frozen or thawing milk; only mix cool with cool (and remember to stir – don’t shake). So how long will thawed breast milk last? If you let the breast milk thaw out in the fridge, you can keep it in the fridge up to 24 hours after it has finished thawing. (Note that it can take around 12 hours to thaw depending on how much milk is in the container and how cold your fridge is). If you warmed the thawed breast milk, do not try to hang on to it
You can refrigerate breast milk for three to five days and freeze it to keep it fresh even longer. Thawed breast milk will keep in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours (but don't refreeze it). If you're traveling, you can store breast milk in an insulated cooler with ice packs for up to 24 hours. 1 Frozen breast milk stays fresh for two weeks in a refrigerator that has a single door to the freezer and refrigerator compartments. 2  In a refrigerator that has a separate door to the freezer, frozen breast milk lasts for 3 to 6 months.
Previously frozen milk may be kept in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours after it has finished thawing. Do not refreeze. To warm milk. 1  Heat water in a cup or other small container, then place frozen milk in the water to warm; or. To thaw milk. 1  Thaw slowly in the refrigerator (this takes about 12 hours – try putting it in the fridge the night before you need it). 2  For quicker thawing, hold container under running water – start cool and gradually increase temperature.
Fresh breast milk can be kept at room temperature up to 10 hours, and refrigerated up to 1 week. Frozen milk can be kept in a freezer compartment inside the refrigerator for 2 weeks; in a separate door refrigerator/freezer up to 3 or 4 months; and in a deep freezer at constant 0 degrees for 6 months. Frozen and thawed milk can be refrigerated for up to 9 hours, but it should not be refrozen. Report Abuse. I wouldn't let it sit for more than an hour out of the fridge. Breast milk is good for 6 months in the freezer and then for 24 hours from freezer to fridge. Once it's thawed and taken out of the fridge, it really needs to be used right away.
Milk that is truly bad has a very distinct sour taste and odor. Even if expressed milk is out of date it should still be considered safe to give a baby as long as it still has a fresh odor and/or taste. http://www.askdrsears.com/html/2/T026900... Milk that has been thawed Save in the refrigerator for 24 hours after thawing, then discard. Do not refreeze. Milk that has been frozen has lost some of the immune properties that inhibit bacterial growth in fresh refrigerated milk. 
How long you can safely keep expressed breast milk depends on the storage method. Consider these general guidelines for healthy infants: 1  Room temperature. 2  Freshly expressed breast milk can be kept at room temperature for up to six hours. 3  However, use or proper storage within four hours is optimal. 4  If the room is especially warm, the limit is also four hours. 5  Insulated cooler. 1 Refrigerator. 2  Freshly expressed breast milk can be stored in the back of the refrigerator for up to five days in clean conditions. 3  However, use or freezer storage within three days is optimal. 4  Deep freezer.