Pastels Painting. Pastels are a unique painting medium in that the colors are mixed on the paper by overlaying or blending, rather than on a palette. Here you'll find helpful tips, essential techniques, and step-by-step demonstrations on pastel painting. 
A Pastel (. /ˈpaestl/ ; /ˈpæstl/) paeˈstɛl pæˈstɛl is an art medium in the form of, a stick consisting of pure powdered pigment and. A binder the pigments used in pastels are the same as those used to produce all colored, art media including; oil paints the binder is of a neutral hue and. low saturation 1 A pastel fixative is an aerosol varnish which can be used to help stabilize the small charcoal or pastel particles on a painting or drawing. 2  It cannot prevent smearing entirely without dulling and darkening the bright and fresh colors of pastels.
Oil pastels are another type of pastel that contain pigment with a wax binder and a non-drying oil. The waxiness of oil pastels is similar to the waxy quality of crayons, only more sophisticated! To learn more about techniques for oil pastels as a fine art medium, visit the website of oil pastel artist Robert Sloan. Characteristics of Pastels. A pastel consists of pure powdered pigment and binder in a stick. It's basically the same pigment that is used in all art mediums. In appearance, it's sort of a cross between a stick of chalk and a crayon.
Pastels can be used in a variety of ways, outlined here. Each of these pastel techniques can be used on their own, or combined, to produce a pastel painting. There is no right or wrong way. As with so many things in painting, it comes down to what you enjoy doing with your pastels. 
A Pastel is a drawing or painting done with a soft, chalk-like pastel stick composed of powdered pigments held together with an aqueous gum binder. In appearance, the pastel stick essentially looks like a piece of chalk, although it is actually somewhat softer and smoother. A drawing or painting created with this kind of stick is called a Pastel. An artist who works in the medium of pastels is called a Pastellist.
The pigments used in pastels are the same as those used to produce all colored art media, including oil paints; the binder is of a neutral hue and low saturation. The color effect of pastels is closer to the natural dry pigments than that of any other process. 1 A pastel fixative is an aerosol varnish which can be used to help stabilize the small charcoal or pastel particles on a painting or drawing. 2  It cannot prevent smearing entirely without dulling and darkening the bright and fresh colors of pastels.
(June 2009). Oil pastel (also called wax oil crayon) is a painting and drawing medium with characteristics similar to pastels and wax crayons. Unlike soft or French pastel sticks, which are made with a gum or methyl cellulose binder, oil pastels consist of pigment mixed with a non-drying oil and wax binder. The surface of an oil pastel painting is therefore less powdery, but more difficult to protect with a fixative. The surface chosen for oil pastels can have a very dramatic effect on the final painting. Paper is a common surface but this medium can be used on other surfaces including wood, metal, hardboard (often known as masonite), MDF, canvas and glass.
Pastels have been used by artists since the Renaissance, and gained considerable popularity in the 18th century, when a number of notable artists made pastel their primary medium. An artwork made using pastels is called a pastel (or a pastel drawing or pastel painting). Pastel used as a verb means to produce an artwork with pastels; as an adjective it means pale in color. 1 A pastel fixative is an aerosol varnish which can be used to help stabilize the small charcoal or pastel particles on a painting or drawing. 2  It cannot prevent smearing entirely without dulling and darkening the bright and fresh colors of pastels.