Stye Causes. Styes are usually caused by infections of the oil glands in the eyelid. Very frequently, they are infected by bacteria, most commonly Staphylococcus bacteria. Seborrhea (excessive oily discharge from the glands) may increase the likelihood of developing one of these infection
About styes. A stye is a swelling on your eyelid, usually caused by an infection of one or more of the eyelash follicles (the root of the eyelash) in your eyelid. Styes can appear on the outside of the eyelid (an external stye) or the inside of the eyelid (an internal stye). The medical term for a stye is a hordeolum
Styes and chalazia are lumps in or along the edge of an eyelid. They may be painful or annoying, but they are rarely serious. Most will go away on their own without treatment. 1  A stye is an infection that causes a tender red lump on the eyelid. 2  Most styes occur along the edge of the eyelid. 3  When a stye occurs inside the eyelid, it is called an internal hordeolum (say hor-dee-OH-lum). 1 Most styes occur along the edge of the eyelid. 2  When a stye occurs inside the eyelid, it is called an internal hordeolum (say hor-dee-OH-lum). 3  A chalazion (say kuh-LAY-zee-on) is a lump in the eyelid. 4  Chalazia (plural) may look like styes, but they are usually larger and may not hurt.
Styes are usually caused by staphylococcal bacteria, which often live right on the skin surface. Our bodies are coated with billions of friendly bacteria that coexist with us. When the conditions are just right the bacteria feast on dead cells and other debris, resulting in the tender pimple. A chalazion is very different from a stye and is not an infection. It is instead a firm, round, smooth, painless bump usually some distance from the edge of the lid. A chalazion is a local tissue reaction to oily glandular secretions that were unable to reach the lid surface because the duct was blocked by debris.
A stye or hordeolum is a small, painful lump on the inside or outside of the eyelid. It is actually an abscess filled with pus and is usually caused by a staphylococcus bacteria eye infection. Styes are common with most people experiencing one or two of them at some stage in their life. Styes are usually visible on the surface but can appear deeper inside the eyelid. A chalazion is very different from a stye and is not an infection. It is instead a firm, round, smooth, painless bump usually some distance from the edge of the lid. A chalazion is a local tissue reaction to oily glandular secretions that were unable to reach the lid surface because the duct was blocked by debris.
A sty is a bump that forms on or in the eyelid as the result of a blocked gland. The word sty can also be spelled stye. There are two distinct types of styes: hordeolum and chalazion. Each has different causes and treatments. A hordeolum is a blockage of one of the sweat glands or oil glands found in the skin of the eyelid, while a chalazion is a blockage of a meibomian gland, which is a special oil gland unique to the eyelids.
A stye (or sty) is an acute infection of the secretory glands of the eyelids. Frequently, bacteria can enter and infect an eyelid oil gland, which are present in both the upper and lower eyelids, causing increased inflammation, pain, and redness of the eye, and even redness of the surrounding eyelid and cheek tissue. 
Stye: Symptoms. A sty forms due to an infection of the follicle of the eyelid. The follicles are the tiny holes from which the eyelashes grow. A sty is usually caused by an infection of the bacterium staphylococcus, but other bacteria may cause the infection as well.
For the enclosure for raising pigs, see Sty. For other meanings, see Sty (disambiguation) . An external stye or sty /ˈstaɪ/ , also hordeolum /hɔrˈdiːələm/ , is an infection of the sebaceous glands of Zeis at the base of the eyelashes, or an infection of the apocrine sweat glands of Moll. External styes form on the outside of the lids and can be seen as small red bumps. Internal styes are infections of the meibomian sebaceous glands lining the inside of the eyelids. They also cause a red bump underneath the lid with only generalized redness and swelling visible on the outside.