Tricuspid Atresia. A heart with tricuspid atresia is characterized by poorly developed right heart structures and has several other heart defects, including no tricuspid valve and a smaller-than-normal right ventricle. Children with tricuspid atresia require at least two open heart surgeries to repair the defects. 
| Symptoms | Diagnosis | Treatment | Postoperative care | Home care | Long-term outlook. Tricuspid atresia (TA) is a congenital (present at birth) heart defect that occurs due to abnormal development of the fetal heart during the first 8 weeks of pregnancy. The tricuspid valve, normally located between the right atrium and the right ventricle, does not develop properly during pregnancy. In tricuspid atresia, however, the following occurs: 1  Improper development of the tricuspid valve prevents oxygen-poor (blue) blood from passing from the right atrium to the right ventricle and on to the lungs as it should. 2  The right ventricle is also underdeveloped.
Definition. Tricuspid atresia is a heart defect present at birth (congenital) in which one of the valves (tricuspid valve) between two of the heart's chambers — the upper right chamber (right atrium) and the lower right chamber (right ventricle) — isn't formed. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pulmonary atresia is a congenital malformation of the pulmonary valve in which the valve orifice fails to develop. The valve is completely closed thereby obstructing the outflow of blood from the heart to the lungs.
Adobe Flash Player. Atresia is defined as the congenital absence of a normal opening. In the case of tricuspid atresia, the tricuspid valve is not present resulting in a lack of communication between the right atrium and the right ventricle. Consequently, the right ventricle is small and underdeveloped. 
Tricuspid atresia is a form of congenital heart disease whereby there is a complete absence of the tricuspid valve. Therefore, there is an absence of right atrioventricular connection. This leads to a hypoplastic (undersized) or absent right ventricle. 
Symptoms. Tricuspid atresia symptoms become evident soon after birth, and can include: 1  Blue tinge to the skin and lips (cyanosis). 2  Difficulty breathing (dyspnea). 3  Tiring easily, especially during feedings. 4  Slow growth and poor weight gain. Some babies with tricuspid atresia may also develop symptoms of heart failure, including: 1  Fatigue and weakness. 2  Shortness of breath. 3  Swelling (edema) in the legs, ankles and feet. 4  Swelling of the abdomen (ascites). 5  Sudden weight gain from fluid retentio