In other words, after your home purchase offer is accepted you'll have 30 days to obtain mortgage loan approval and close on the deal. Your mortgage lender will need to see your accepted purchase offer in order to begin final loan approval though. Initial Closing Date. It's common for real estate buyers and sellers to mutually agree to a closing date. For example, when offering to purchase a home you might ask its seller to agree to close within 30 days.
Most are taking closer to the 45 days right now. As a first time Buyer, I would choose a Lender first, find out what you qualify for, and then start searching about 2 1/2 - 3 months before you want to be in your new home. I would love to chance to speak with you and possibly assist you in your search. I have the Multiple Listing Service Listings link on my web site. The average client of mine finds a home in as little as one week to 4 weeks. From that period when we find the home and go under contract you are looking at another 30 to 45 days to close in most cases. Depending on your personal circumstances I would definitely give yourself some buffer room.
A home buyer can withdraw an offer at any time until the offer is accepted by the home seller. After that, the seller may owe a commission to the broker, and may sue the buyer for breach of contract to recover the cost of that commission. The law is very different for the home seller who actually accepts an offer by a buyer under the exact terms of the offer. When this happens, the seller and the buyer are now in contract subject to any contingencies required of the buyer (home inspection or loan requirements) in order to close the transaction.
Closing Time Frame. Once a mortgage loan is given final approval, most home sale closings can take place very shortly thereafter. In fact, some mortgage lenders may be comfortable with home sale closings two to three days after a mortgage loan application's final approval. Generally, though, it usually takes about a week after final mortgage loan approval before a home's sale closing takes place. Initial Closing Date. It's common for real estate buyers and sellers to mutually agree to a closing date. For example, when offering to purchase a home you might ask its seller to agree to close within 30 days.
If the price for the purchase and sale of the real property has been agreed to as well as the contingencies, etc., that are in the written contract, signed and dated by the seller and the buyer, the situation is then known as the “parties being in contract”. 
After you've made an offer to buy a house, the seller will accept your offer, make a counteroffer with one or more changes, or reject the offer outright. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. After you've made an offer to buy a house, the seller will accept your offer, make a counteroffer with one or more changes, or reject the offer outright. We'll describe here how this will all play out.
How long it takes to find the home depends on your market inventory and your personal preference. The average client of mine finds a home in as little as one week to 4 weeks. From that period when we find the home and go under contract you are looking at another 30 to 45 days to close in most cases. Depending on your personal circumstances I would definitely give yourself some buffer room.
With that said, interest rates are historically low and now could be the best time to purchase a home. If you are thinking of purchasing a home, I would suggest you start looking now. It is hard to say how long it will take for you to purchase a home. I know a couple that started looking for a house in January, and still have not closed. I know another guy that started looking, offered and closed the transaction within 3 weeks. My opinion would be start now. You never know how long it will take in todays market. If you find a house you like that is a short sale then it could take at least 2 months. I have clients that start 4-6 months looking
When you get 75 days out from your move in date, I would start actively touring the homes in the price range and area you like. In our area, if you start sooner those homes will be gone before you are ready to write a contract. From writing a contract to possession it is 30 to 45 days. The average client of mine finds a home in as little as one week to 4 weeks. From that period when we find the home and go under contract you are looking at another 30 to 45 days to close in most cases. Depending on your personal circumstances I would definitely give yourself some buffer room.