ATP synthase in plant cells is located in the mitochondria. A  portion is located within the membrane and the other portion is  located above the membrane, inside the mitoch … ondria's matrix. Answered. In Genetics. The electron gradient created by the electron transport chain flows from the inner membrane space to the matrix through the ATP synthase which captures energy from the proton … motive force to create lots of ATP in oxadative phosphorylation.
The same process takes place in the mitochondria, where ATP synthase is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane (so that F 1 -part sticks into mitochondrial matrix, where ATP synthesis takes place). It is formed from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P i), and needs energy. The overall reaction sequence is: ADP + P i → ATP, where ADP and P i are joined together by ATP synthase.
The enzyme makes adenosine triphosphate (ATP) from adenosine diiphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate … (Pi).   ADP + Pi ATP   ATP is a universal energy currency of a living cell and is essential for DNA synthesis, muscle contraction, ion and nutrients transport, signal transduction, etc. The electron gradient created by the electron transport chain flows from the inner membrane space to the matrix through the ATP synthase which captures energy from the proton … motive force to create lots of ATP in oxadative phosphorylation.
The inner membrane. The Atp energy is stored between the second and third phosphates in the negatively charged Oxygen atom [and electron] rich chemical regime. The electron gradient created by the electron transport chain flows from the inner membrane space to the matrix through the ATP synthase which captures energy from the proton … motive force to create lots of ATP in oxadative phosphorylation.
Best Answer: ATP synthase has 2 parts: F0 : in the inner mitochondrial membrane F1 -ATPase in the matrix of the mitochondrion. F1 is the one who catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP to ADP and Pi. 
ATP synthase in plant cells is located in the mitochondria. A  portion is located within the membrane and the other portion is  located above the membrane, inside the mitoch … ondria's matrix. Answered. The electron gradient created by the electron transport chain flows from the inner membrane space to the matrix through the ATP synthase which captures energy from the proton … motive force to create lots of ATP in oxadative phosphorylation.
ATP Synthase. Where ATP synthase is located is key to understanding how it produces ATP. Clicking on each of the thumbnail images will bring up a larger, labeled version of the described scene. To see the Flash movie for the following sequence of images, click here. The mitochondria, a key site of ATP synthesis. Its structure is an important aspect of ATP production. ATP synthase and the complexes that form the electron transport chain (ETC) are located throughout the cisternae. Here we see how ATP is oriented in the inner membrane of the mitochondria
ATP synthase (also known as FoF1-ATP synthase) is a multisubunit integral membrane protein that produce ATP from ADP and Pi using the energy of transmembrane electrochemical p … otential difference of proton (or sodium ion in some cases). The electron gradient created by the electron transport chain flows from the inner membrane space to the matrix through the ATP synthase which captures energy from the proton … motive force to create lots of ATP in oxadative phosphorylation.
ATP synthase (EC 3.6.3.14) is an important enzyme that provides energy for the cell to use through the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the most commonly used energy currency of cells from most organisms. It is formed from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P i), and needs energy. The overall reaction sequence is: ADP + P i → ATP, where ADP and P i are joined together by ATP synthase.
ATP synthase functions by using the energy of the proton gradient established by the electron transport chain to synthesize ATP from ADP and inorganic phosphate. It is compose … d of four major parts, the stator, the rotator, the internal rod, and the catalytic knob. The electron gradient created by the electron transport chain flows from the inner membrane space to the matrix through the ATP synthase which captures energy from the proton … motive force to create lots of ATP in oxadative phosphorylation.