1 Right coronary artery (RCA). 2  arises from the right aortic sinus of the ascending aorta. 3  passes to the right side of the pulmonary trunk, running in the atrioventricular (coronary) sulcus. 4  branches. 5  sinoatrial nodal artery. 6  supplies the sinoatrial (SA) node. 1 Left coronary artery (LCA). 2  arises from the left aortic sinus of the ascending aorta. 3  passes to the left side of the pulmonary trunk, running in the atrioventricular (coronary) sulcus. 4  branches. 5  circumflex artery (CFX)
1 The posterior interventricular artery: this branch is on the posterior surface of the heart (it branches from the right coronary artery after it has travelled along the coronary sulcus to the posterior surface) and runs in the posterior interventricular sulcus. The Right Coronary Artery. 1  The right coronary artery arises from the right aortic sinus, and then passes behind the pulmonary trunk to reach the atrioventricular (coronary) sulcus. 2  The artery gives off several branches: 3  The conus artery: this is the 1 st branch in 64% of hearts and it supplies the conus arteriosus.
The left coronary artery (abbreviated LCA) is an artery that arises from the aorta above the left cusp of the aortic valve and feeds blood to the left side of the heart. It typically runs for 10 to 25 mm and then bifurcates into the anterior interventricular artery (also called the left anterior descending (LAD) and the Widow maker) and the left circumflex artery (LCx).
The heart muscle is supplied by the coronary arteries which are direct branches of the ascending aorta, so the heart muscle gets the freshest blood possible. The heart muscle is drained by the cardiac veins. Most of the venous drainage is by was of the coronary sinus into the right atrium. A small amount of blood drains directly into the right atrium by way of the anterior cardiac veins. The heart is supplied by two major coronary arteries, the right and left. The right coronary lies in the coronary sulcus and gives rise to an important branch immediately after leaving the ascending aorta. This is the anterior right atrial branch which gives rise to the important nodal artery. This artery supplies the sinoatrial node (SA node) or pacemaker of the heart
1 The right coronary artery arises from the right aortic sinus, and then passes behind the pulmonary trunk to reach the atrioventricular (coronary) sulcus. 2  The artery gives off several branches: 3  The conus artery: this is the 1 st branch in 64% of hearts and it supplies the conus arteriosus. The Right Coronary Artery. 1 
The left main coronary artery (LMCA) arises from the left aortic sinus, running towards the left hand side of the heart, just below the left auricle. It quickly divides into the anterior interventricular branch also known as the left anterior descending (LAD) artery and the circumflex artery. The LAD runs along the anterior interventricular sulcus, a groove in the anterior surface of the heart that seperates the left and right ventricle, down towards the apex. From here, it curls around towards the inferior surface of the heart, forming the posterior interventricular branch, more commonly known as the posterior descending artery (PDA). The PDA runs along the posterior interventiculas sulcus, to supply blood to the walls of both the left and right ventricle.
Location: The left coronary artery (left main coronary artery) emerges from the aorta through the ostia of the left aortic cusp, within the sinus of Valsalva. The plane of the semilunar valve is tilted so that the ostium of the left coronary artery is superior and posterior to the right coronary ostium. The left coronary artery travels from the aorta, and passes between the pulmonary trunk and the left atrial appendage. Under the appendage, the artery divides (and is thus a very short vessel) into the anterior interventricular (left anterior descending artery) and the left circumflex artery
In fact, there are two main coronary arteries that branch from the ascending aorta, known as the left and right coronary arteries. In essence, the left main coronary artery supplies the left atrium, interventricular septum, left ventricle and the anterior wall of the right ventricle. From here, it curls around towards the inferior surface of the heart, forming the posterior interventricular branch, more commonly known as the posterior descending artery (PDA). The PDA runs along the posterior interventiculas sulcus, to supply blood to the walls of both the left and
The right coronary artery emerges from the anterior aortic sinus and descends in the coronary sulcus on the anterior surface of the heart, between the right atrium and right ventricle. At the inferior border of the heart, the artery branches to give off the right marginal artery. 