Biotin is an important B vitamin which is water-soluble. It works in the metabolic process to break down protein, fats and carbohydrates. It is also essential for developing strong nails and healthy hair. Biotin can be found in most foods that are high in protein, such as meat, dairy products and vegetables. Vegetarians and vegans are at risk of having a deficiency of biotin and the most common indicators are hair loss and weak nails. The recommended daily intake of biotin for adults is 300-5000mcg per day
National health experts recommend 30 micrograms of biotin a day for pregnant and lactating women. Because this is a water soluble compound, it can't easily be saved in the body long-term, so it's important to get it into a regular diet. 1 Berries and Fruits-Some types of berries, including strawberries and raspberries, can get the body a significant amount of biotin. 2  These fruits also provide antioxidants and health benefits, as part of a natural, whole food approach to eating.
Food sources. Biotin is found in many foods, either as the free form that is directly taken up by enterocytes or as biotin bound to dietary proteins. Egg yolk, liver, and yeast are rich sources of biotin. 
Biotin is found in a wide variety of natural foods. Egg yolk, liver and wheat bran are rich sources. Generally, the more processed a food, the lower its biotin content. Bottom line: To meet your recommended intake, choose whole foods more often. 
Liver contains high levels of biotin, with 27 to 35 micrograms of biotin in 3 ounces of cooked liver. Other organ meats such as kidney store significant amounts of biotin. Three ounces of cooked pork provides about 2 to 4 micrograms of biotin. Biotin can also be found in fish such as salmon and sardines. Cooked salmon has 4 to 5 micrograms of biotin per 3-ounce serving. The Linus Pauling Institute states that a 3-ounce serving of meat is the size of a deck of cards. 
8 Foods Rich in Biotin. Biotin is a water soluble B vitamin that is essential for bodily health. It helps the body to process fat and sugars, and it helps form a critical process in fat production in the body. 1 Berries and Fruits-Some types of berries, including strawberries and raspberries, can get the body a significant amount of biotin. 2  These fruits also provide antioxidants and health benefits, as part of a natural, whole food approach to eating.
A: Biotin is a vitamin that is found in small amounts in various foods. Biotin is used for preventing biotin deficiency associated with pregnancy, tube-feedings, malnutrition and rapid weight loss. It is also used for hair loss, brittle nails, skin rash, diabetes, and depression. A: Biotin (vitamin H) is classified as a water-soluble B vitamin. A deficiency in biotin is very rare. This is because the amount of biotin that is required for daily requirements is fairly low and biotin is in many different foods. The body can also reuse a lot of the biotin that it already used.
A: Biotin is a water-soluble B-complex vitamin (also called vitamin B7 or vitamin H). The primary role of biotin is in the metabolism of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates. Biotin is found naturally in food, such as yeast, cauliflower, salmon, bananas, carrots, egg yolks, sardines, legumes, and mushrooms. According to the National Institute of Health, biotin has not been associated with significant side effects, including weight gain. A: Biotin (vitamin H) is classified as a water-soluble B vitamin. A deficiency in biotin is very rare. This is because the amount of biotin that is required for daily requirements is fairly low and biotin is in many different foods. The body can also reuse a lot of the biotin that it already used.