1 Canker sores. 2  Early research suggests that taking 500 mg of lysine daily prevents canker sores and 4000 mg daily decreases the length of canker sores. 3  Diabetes. 4  Some evidence shows that taking lysine daily for 2 months does not affect blood sugar levels in people with diabetes. 1 For cold sores (herpes simplex labialis): 1000 mg daily for 12 months and 1000 mg three times daily for 6 months. 2  For treating cold sores (herpes simplex labialis): a specific combination of lysine plus zinc oxide and 14 other ingredients (Super Lysine Plus +) applied every 2 hours for 11 days has been used.
Egg whites and many other high-protein foods are rich in lysine. L-lysine is one of the essential amino acids, so-called because your body must have it to function properly but cannot produce it on its own. For this reason, you must replenish your supply of lysine from food sources or a supplement on a daily basis. 
Lysine has been used in alternative medicine as an aid to prevent cold sores around the mouth (caused by the herpes simplex virus). This product may make cold sores occur less often and may reduce the number of days a cold sore lasts. Lysine is not a cure for herpes. Lysine should not be used in place of medication prescribed for you by your doctor. Lysine is often sold as an herbal supplement. There are no regulated manufacturing standards in place for many herbal compounds and some marketed supplements have been found to be contaminated with toxic metals or other drugs.
What is lysine ()? Lysine is an essential amino acid. Essential means that it is not produced by the body and therefore it must be taken in either by diet or by taking supplements. Lysine is found in foods such as yogurt, fish, cheese, brewer's yeast, wheat germ, pork, and other meats. Lysine has been used to treat or prevent herpes infections (genital herpes and cold sores) and canker sores. It has also been used to treat symptoms of Bell's palsy, and to improve calcium use in the body
Lysine (abbreviated as Lys or K) is an α- amino acid with the chemical formula HO 2 CCH(NH 2)(CH 2) 4 NH 2. It is an essential amino acid for humans. Lysine's codons are AAA and AAG. Lysine is a base, as are arginine and histidine. The ε-amino group often participates in hydrogen bonding and as a general base in catalysis. (The ε-amino group (NH 3 +) is attached to the fifth carbon from the α-carbon, which is attached to the carboxyl (C=OOH) group.
2 Reviews. Lysine is an essential amino acid. Essential means that it is not produced by the body and therefore it must be taken in either by diet or by taking supplements. Lysine is found in foods such as lentils, red meat, pork, poultry, cod fish, sardines, nuts, eggs, soy beans, brewer's yeast, and dairy products. Lysine should not be used in place of medication prescribed for you by your doctor. Lysine is often sold as an herbal supplement. There are no regulated manufacturing standards in place for many herbal compounds and some marketed supplements have been found to be contaminated with toxic metals or other drugs.
L-lysine is an essential amino acid used by the body as a building block for many functions important to growth and maintenance of health. L-lysine is an amino acid (a building block of protein) that is essential for health. However, it cannot be manufactured naturally in the human body like other types of amino acids. In particular, L-lysine is needed by the body to manufacture carnitine, a substance that is used in the conversion of fatty acids into energy. It also helps in calcium absorption and collagen formation which are important for muscle and bone health.
Lysine is an amino acid (building block of protein). People use it to make medicine. Lysine is used for preventing and treating cold sores (caused by the virus called herpes simplex labialis). It is taken by mouth or applied directly to the skin for this use. Lysine is also taken by mouth to improve athletic performance. 1 For cold sores (herpes simplex labialis): 1000 mg daily for 12 months and 1000 mg three times daily for 6 months. 2  For treating cold sores (herpes simplex labialis): a specific combination of lysine plus zinc oxide and 14 other ingredients (Super Lysine Plus +) applied every 2 hours for 11 days has been used.
Lysine, or L-lysine, is an essential amino acid, meaning it is necessary for human health, but the body cannot make it. You have to get lysine from food or supplements. Amino acids like lysine are the building blocks of protein. Lysine is important for proper growth, and it plays an essential role in the production of carnitine, a nutrient responsible for converting fatty acids into energy and helping lower cholesterol.
As a building block for protein, amino acids like L-lysine are necessary for normal growth and development. In particular, L-lysine is needed by the body to manufacture carnitine, a substance that is used in the conversion of fatty acids into energy. It also helps in calcium absorption and collagen formation which are important for muscle and bone health.