View full size image. Fahrenheit is a temperature scale that bases the boiling point of water at 212 and the freezing point at 32. It was developed by Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit, a German-born scientist who lived and worked primarily in the Netherlands. 
Here's the answer to this common question. Answer: Short Answer: The boiling point of water is 100°C or 212° F at 1 atmosphere of pressure (sea level). Better Answer: The boiling point of water depends on the atmospheric pressure, which changes according to elevation. The boiling point of water is 100 degrees Celsius or 212 degrees Fahrenheit at 1 atmosphere of pressure (sea level). Jody Dole, Getty Images. Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D.
Kelvin Scale. Degrees Celsius (°C) and kelvins (K) have the same magnitude. The only difference between the scales is their starting points: 0 K is absolute zero, while 0°C is the freezing point of water. One can convert degrees Celsius to kelvins by adding 273.15; thus, the boiling point of water, 100°C, is 373.15 K. –273.1°. Absolute zero is theoretically the lowest possible temperature, the point at which all molecular motion would cease. To convert Fahrenheit to Celsius (Centigrade), subtract 32 and divide by 1.8. To convert Celsius (Centigrade) to Fahrenheit, multiply by 1.8 and add 32.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 100c but this is only true at sea level. if you are much higher above sea level the boiling point is lowered a bit. same with baking, when i moved to the west coast from the east coast i had to reduce my baking times because of the high elevation here in the mountains. 
Water freezes at 0 degrees C and boils at 100 C. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Best House Temperature Ranges for Babies and Toddlers When choosing the best house temperature for babies, you should consider the seasons. 100 degrees Celsius at standard pressure. At 1 atmosphere of pressure (that is: average pressure at sea level), pure water (that is: distilled water) boils at 100º Celsius or 212 degrees Fahrenheit.
You might have been told that water boils at 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit) but the boiling point of water actually depends on the oxygen content and atmospheric pressure. The higher the altitude, the lower the temperature at which water boils. 
This definition fixes the magnitude of both the degree Celsius and the Kelvin as precisely 1 part in 273.16 (approximately 0.00366) of the difference between absolute zero and the triple point of water. Thus, it sets the magnitude of one degree Celsius and that of one Kelvin as exactly the same. 