A subpoena is a legal document that orders an individual to testify for an investigation or legal proceeding at a specific date and time. A subpoena can be a summons for a person to provide testimony at a trial, testify during the early stages of an investigation, or provide physical evidence relevant to the case.
1 Serve the Subpoena.  2 Serve (give) the Subpoena to the person or business you are subpoenaing. 3  Anyone, even you, can serve your Subpoena, but this must be done in person and NOT by mail. 4  Serve a copy of the Subpoena-not the original one! 5  Fill out Page 3 of the original Small Claims Subpoena (Form SC-107).
Once a subpoena is issued, it may be served on an individual in any of the following ways: 1  Hand-delivered (also known as personal delivery method); 2  E-mailed to the last known e-mail address of the individual (receipt acknowledgement requested); 3  Certified mail to the last known address (return receipt requested); or.
If you do not subpoena a witness and the witness does not appear at the hearing, you may be required to present your side of the case without that witness. There are three types of subpoenas. The first two can be used to order a witness to appear in court. The third is used to order a witness to appear at a deposition.
1 Anyone, even you, can serve your Subpoena, but this must be done in person and NOT by mail. 2  Serve a copy of the Subpoena-not the original one! 3  Fill out Page 3 of the original Small Claims Subpoena (Form SC-107). 4  Have the person who served the Subpoena sign at the bottom of page 3.
A subpoena doesn’t even need to be signed by a judge. A court clerk, prosecutor or even a private attorney can issue a subpoena to gather information. The worst part is that you don’t even have to be involved in a criminal or civil case to get served with one.
A subpoena must be served personally by someone over age 18 who is not a party to the lawsuit. You cannot serve the subpoena yourself since you are a party (plaintiff/petitioner or defendant/respondent).
A subpoena is an order from the court that requires you to be somewhere in person at a certain place, date and time to testify as a witness in a case. In a criminal case, you can be “subpoenaed” to testify in court. In a civil case, you may be subpoenaed to appear at a deposition, which is testimony taken outside of court. A subpoena may also require that you provide certain documents to the court or a party in the case.
A subpoena may be sent by mail. However, it has NOT been legally served unless the witness 1) contacts the person who issued the subpoena by phone, mail or in person, and 2) provides his or her date of birth, and a California Drivers License or state-issued ID card number, as identification.