From the Late Greek name χριστοφορος (Christophoros) meaning bearing CHRIST , derived from χριστος (Christos) combined with φερω (phero) to bear, to carry. Early Christians used it as a metaphorical name, expressing that they carried Christ in their hearts.s an English given name, Christopher has been in general use since the 15th century. In Denmark it was borne by three kings (their names are usually spelled Christoffer), including the 15th-century Christopher of Bavaria who also ruled Norway and Sweden.
Christopher is the English version of a Europe-wide name derived from the Greek name χριστόφορος (Christoforos). Christóforos the constituent parts ARE (χριστός), . christos christós The constituent parts are χριστός (Christos), . Christós  christ  Or , anointed and (φέρειν), ferein: férein Bear-the. Christ bearer it is related to The names Chris meaning Anointed and christian meaning Follower of christ Or (little christ All.). from greek
Christopher /chri-sto-pher/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KRIS-toh-fer. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Christopher is bearing Christ. From Khristophoros. Popular among early Christians. The legend of Saint Christopher as the patron saint of travelers grew from the story of a giant who made his living carrying people across a river. 
English Meaning: The name Chris is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Chris is: Follower of Christ. Chris is used as a diminutive of many masculine and feminine names beginning with Chris-, including Christian, Christina, Christine, and Christopher. American Meaning: Greek Meaning: The name Chris is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Chris is: From the Greek word meaning 'carrier of Christ', Famous bearer: St Christopher, patron Saint of travellers, is believed to have carried the Christ-child across a river.
Chris /chris/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less widely as girls' name Chris) is pronounced kris. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Chris is bearing Christ. Short form of Christopher and Christian. Actors Chris Cooper, Chris O'Donnell, Chris Sarandon; comedians Chris Tucker, Chris Rock; basketball player Chris Webber.
Meaning of Christopher. English name. In English, the name Christopher means-He who holds Christ in his heart. Famous Bearers: actors Christopher Plummer and Christopher Walken; explorer Christopher Columbus.. Other origins for the name Christopher include-English, Biblical.The name Christopher is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-He who holds Christ in his heart. Famous Bearers: actors Christopher Plummer and Christopher Walken; explorer Christopher Columbus. 
Christopher is the English version of a Europe-wide name derived from the Greek name χριστόφορος (Christoforos). Christóforos the constituent parts ARE (χριστός), . Christos  christós  Christ , or anointed (and), φέρειν: ferein Férein-bear. the christ bearer The constituent parts are χριστός (Christos), . Christós  christ  Or , anointed and (φέρειν), ferein: férein Bear-the. Christ bearer it is related to The names Chris meaning Anointed and christian meaning Follower of christ Or (little christ All.). from greek