1 Colorado does not allow most exotic animals to be kept as pets, but you can keep some native reptiles, and what the state considers unregulated wildlife which includes sugar gliders, hedgehogs and more. 2  Bears, large cats and primates are included in the list of illegal animals to own in this small state. Every state has different exotic pet laws. Some states are specific as to what animals they restrict while others allow pretty much anything to be kept as a pet. Find out what your state's exotic pet laws are here with these exotic pet law summaries
Best Answer: Hi! Laws for exotic animals are different from state to state, and also in certain cities. I'm getting a pet red fox myself. However, make sure you do ALL the research on whatever you get, since exotic pets are very different than usual pets. Depending on where you live, you can get most of anything: ocelots, lynxes, bobcats, coatamundi, sugar gliders, hedgehogs, foxes, fennec foxes, wolf-hybrids, raccoons, etc. In Indiana, and Ohio, I don't think you have to pay anything (may be wrong about that). In Utah you can have a pet red fox as long as it was from a breeder. Source(s): Extensive research on exotic pets.
Hi there! Exotic animals: Some exotic animals (depending on were you live) you have to have a permit for, or very special permishion to have that kind of pet. You would need someone over the age of 18 to sign off on the animal/s if you live in a stricked area. In Indiana, and Ohio, I don't think you have to pay anything (may be wrong about that). In Utah you can have a pet red fox as long as it was from a breeder. Source(s): Extensive research on exotic pets.
Living conditions and accommodations for these animals are important. As with any animal, you have to remember to properly feed them and make sure your local vet clinic will treat these kinds of animals, especially in case of an emergency. State laws vary when it comes to exotic animals. Having wildlife close to home can be an exciting way of life, but it can be a dangerous one. It's common to see more exotic pets sold at the local pet store, but is this a safe trend? We have the lowdown on which exotic pets are safe to own, and which ones you might want to think twice about. It made national news when Charla Nash was viciously attacked by a 200-pound pet chimpanzee named Travis in February 2009, leaving her with life-long scar
Privately owning exotic animals is currently permitted in a handful of states with essentially no restrictions: You must have a license to own a dog, but you are free to purchase a lion or baboon and keep it as a pet. All across the nation, in Americans’ backyards and garages and living rooms, in their beds and basements and bathrooms, wild animals kept as pets live side by side with their human owners. It’s believed that more exotic animals live in American homes than are cared for in American zoos.
Mammals. Animals you didn't know you could have as pets. Cats and dogs seem boring next to these exotic animals you can have as pets. From foxes to sugar gliders, each state has it's own laws regarding which of these creatures you can take home. The fennec fox is naturally found in the Sahara of North Africa but many people keep the nocturnal animals as pets.
Here are the 10 Wild Animals You Can Own as pets. Every people like a pet animals.If u like any animal from this list then please subscribe me and like me. 10. Sugar Glider. These pets are very popular in the Northeastern part of Australia. 9. 
I know in Illinois all you have to do to own a red fox is pay an annual $25 fee for a license. In Indiana, and Ohio, I don't think you have to pay anything (may be wrong about that). In Utah you can have a pet red fox as long as it was from a breeder. Source(s): Extensive research on exotic pets.