DEFINITION of 'Demographics'. Studies of a population based on factors such as age, race, sex, economic status, level of education, income level and employment, among others. Demographics are used by governments, corporations and non-government organizations to learn more about a population's characteristics for many purposes, including policy development and economic market research.
Definition. Socioeconomic characteristics of a population expressed statistically, such as age, sex, education level, income level, marital status, occupation, religion, birth rate, death rate, average size of a family, average age at marriage. BusinessDictionary.com. Socioeconomic characteristics of a population expressed statistically, such as age, sex, education level, income level, marital status, occupation, religion, birth rate, death rate, average size of a family, average age at marriage.
demographics. The characteristics of a human population, especially with regard to such factors as numbers, growth, and distribution, often used in defining consumer markets. 
Full Definition of DEMOGRAPHIC. 1. plural: the statistical characteristics of human populations (as age or income) used especially to identify markets. 2. : a market or segment of the population identified by demographics. Examples of DEMOGRAPHIC. 1  The town's demographics suggest that the restaurant will do well there. 2  The newspaper will be making some changes in order to adapt to the region's shifting
Demographics is defined as statistical data about the characteristics of a population, such as the age, gender and income of the people within the population. When the census assembles data about people's ages and genders, this is an example of assembling information about demographics. The attributes of people in a particular geographic area. Used for marketing purposes, population, ethnic origins, religion, spoken language, income and age range are examples of demographic data.
We'd now like to give a little more details on demographics. Here is a definition of Demographics (from Wikipedia): Demographics or demographic data refers to selected population characteristics as used in government, marketing or opinion research, or the demographic profiles used in such research.
Demography is the statistical study of populations, including of human beings. As a very general science, it can analyze any kind of dynamic living population, i.e., one that changes over time or space (see population dynamics). More generally, while the basic demographic equation holds true by definition, in practice the recording and counting of events (births, deaths, immigration, emigration) and the enumeration of the total population size are subject to error.
Full Definition of DEMOGRAPHIC. 1. : of or relating to demography or demographics. 2. : relating to the dynamic balance of a population especially with regard to density and capacity for expansion or decline. — de·mo·graph·i·cal·ly \-fi-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See demographic defined for English-language learners. Examples of DEMOGRAPHIC. 1  The town's demographics suggest that the restaurant will do well there. 2  The newspaper will be making some changes in order to adapt to the region's shifting
Here is a definition of Demographics. (from Wikipedia): Demographics or demographic data refers to selected population characteristics as used in government, marketing or opinion research, or the demographic profiles used in such research.