You do not need formal qualifications to become a tester, as your playing skills and knowledge of the games market will be more important to employers. However, some basic knowledge of programming may give you an advantage when looking for work, as will experience of using databases, which are used for bug reports.
A: Game Programming and Management are sought after degrees. To be able to score a decent job in the market place, you need to attain formal education like the bachelor of game programming and management followed by a master's degree in the discipline.
With a game design degree at bachelor or masters level, one can work as a game producer or a game designer. Many largest companies require the services of skilled designers. This occupation is growing rapidly and will become one of the largest sectors of the tech based industry.
Designers may need a bachelor's degree, especially if they're planning to work for a large game studio. Although some schools offer a degree in game design, aspiring game designers can get the necessary training from computer science, software engineering or related degree programs.
As you choose an undergraduate or graduate degree program that will meet video game designer training requirements, there are several approaches you can take. You can pursue a degree in computer programming, computer science, art and design, or visual communications with an emphasis in video game design.
Candidates with a Bachelor's or Master's degree in Computer Programming, Computer Science or Design with a video game concentration will be best prepared to enter the field. Computer certifications, such as Java, C++ and Flash are also helpful.
Video Game Design Degrees and Programs. A variety of video game design related degrees are available at all levels of education including certificate, Associate’s, Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees. You can find programs that focus on video game art and design while other are related to game design and development.
A: The Master of Science in Video Game Design program is a two year program. However, that's not the case with the online Master of Science in Video Game Design program. The online video game design courses can be completed in as much time as seen fit by the student.
Game Warden education requirements usually call for a degree in environmental sciences, law enforcement or criminal justice. Some may also get a certificate in wildlife & forestry conservation; however, it is important to remember that a Game Warden is officially a law enforcement officer.