If you work more than 35 but fewer than 40 hours in a workweek, you will be entitled to be paid for the extra hours at your regular rate of pay, as overtime premium pay is only required after 40 hours in a workweek. Overtime is based on the regular rate of pay, which is the compensation you normally earn for the work you perform. The regular rate of pay includes a number of different kinds of remuneration, such as hourly earnings, salary, piecework earnings, and commissions.
When the hours worked in one day exceed 12, employees are paid double time for every hour worked thereafter. If an employee works seven consecutive days, then for the first 8 hours on that seventh day they are paid time and a half, but for each additional hour, they are paid double time. If I work 12 hours on a holiday do i get paid double time for the 4 hours? Getting paid double time for working on holidays is a company benefit not a Federal law. Not all companies offer that benefit. There may be differences in the law on the State level so you should look it up for your state.
State laws may provide for double time pay. For example, California requires double time pay based on hours worked. If you are paid double time and your regular hourly rate is $12.55/hour, the double-time rate would be $25.10/hour. When You Work Nights, Weekends or Holidays. The FLSA does not require overtime pay for nights, weekends or holidays unless the hours push the worker over the 40 hour threshold. For example, if your hourly rate of pay is $10/hour, the overtime rate is $15/hour. In some cases, overtime may be paid as double time (working on a holiday, for example). However, in most cases, double time is an agreement between an employer and employee. There are no federal laws requiring that it be paid.
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has no requirement for double time pay. This is a matter of agreement between an employer and employee (or the employee's representative). 
If an employer has a written contract or policy that employees will be paid double time or triple time for holidays, then the employer is obligated to pay employees as required by the written contract or policy. The answers provided are not meant to be a substitute for legal advice. 
? then work that SUNDAY for just overtime pay????? Technically, you could work 80 hours in a week and not get double time: 12 hours times 6 days, plus 8. And that is just in California. Most of the rest of the country does not require that double time be paid at all. If I work 12 hours on a holiday do i get paid double time for the 4 hours? Getting paid double time for working on holidays is a company benefit not a Federal law. Not all companies offer that benefit. There may be differences in the law on the State level so you should look it up for your state.
Step 3. Multiply the number of hours that qualify for double time pay by the double time rate. If you are paying an 8 hour day that was subject to double time at a $24 per hour double time rate, the gross pay for the 8 hour shift is $192. Step 4. Calculate the employer's tax liability for the double-time pay. 
Overtime Rules. California requires that employers pay employees an overtime rate of time-and-a-half if they work more than eight hours a day or 40 hours a week. In some situations, the employer must pay double time. For example, if an employee works more than 12 hours in one day, the excess must be paid at double his regular rate. Any hours the employee works over eight on the seventh consecutive workday are also paid at double his regular rate.
Premium Pay: Regular and Irregular Overtime. If you are required to work more that 8 hours a day or more than the standard 40-hour workweek, you can expect to be compensated for the extra time - - either by payment at an overtime rate, or by time off on an hour-for-hour basis (know as compensatory time off). Premium Pay Essentials