Learn About the Candidates. You may want to prepare for Election Day by finding out who's running for office before you go to the voting booth. Click here to visit the nonpartisan Project Vote Smart Web site and enter your zip code in the left-hand column to get more information about the candidates where you live.
Register to Vote by State by selecting the state and filling out the associated National Voter Registration Form. Once you are finished, you will be able to instantly view and print the National Voter Registration form directly from your screen.
Qualified individuals may also register to vote at the polling place on election day at all elections. No matter when or where you register to vote, you will be required to fill out a standard voter registration form, and you will be asked to show proof of identity, age, citizenship, and domicile.
Find out how to register to vote absentee, a guide to completing the application, and information on emergency absentee voting. State Board of Elections. Find out about the State Board of Elections-- its meetings, members, calendars, and policies.
How and Where to register to Vote (Deadlines). 1  You can register in person at your county board of elections. 2  or at any New York State Agency-Based voter registration center. 3  You can enter your name directly into our mailing list database to have a New York State Voter Registration Form mailed to you.
Contact your county election office to find out how to cast a Vote-by-Mail ballot. If you are unexpectedly out of town or have a last-minute emergency or hospitalization, you can vote early at your county election office.
1 You can call our 1-800-FOR-VOTE hotline to request a voter application. 2  You can download a. 3  version of the New York State Voter Registration Form. 4  Download English Form (279KB). 5  Download Spanish Form (300KB). 6  Print the form, complete and sign it, and mail it to your county board of elections.
Yes. California military and overseas voters may also use the Secretary of State's website to fill out a voter registration application and request a special absentee ballot. When filling out an application to register as a special absentee voter, you can choose to have your ballot mailed, faxed, or emailed to you.
You may also contact your county election administrator to register or update your registration or visit My Voter Page to find out if you are registered to vote, where you are registered to vote, the location and directions to your polling place, the status of your absentee ballot, and to view a sample ballot.
1 You can register in person at your county board of elections. 2  or at any New York State Agency-Based voter registration center. 3  You can enter your name directly into our mailing list database to have a New York State Voter Registration Form mailed to you.