As the historic impeachment vote took place, Clinton was meeting in the Oval Office with the Rev. Tony Campolo, one of his spiritual counselors. After the first article was approved, the President was informed by chief of staff John Podesta and senior adviser Doug Sosnik. President Clinton and wife Hillary were joined by VP Al Gore and Democratic leader Dick Gephardt for a pep rally after the Republican dominated House voted to impeach in 1998. (Originally published by the Daily News on December 20, 1998. This story was written by Kenneth R. Bazinet and Thomas DeFrank.).
611, Clinton was impeached on December 19, 1998, by the House of Representatives on grounds of perjury to a grand jury (by a 228–206 vote) and obstruction of justice (by a 221–212 vote). Shortly after the elections, Gingrich, who had been one of the leading advocates for impeachment, announced he would resign from Congress as soon as he was able to find somebody to fill his vacant seat; Gingrich fulfilled this pledge and officially resigned from Congress on January 3, 1999.
Two other impeachment articles, a second perjury charge and a charge of abuse of power, failed in the House, and he was acquitted of them by the Senate on February 12, 1999. Independent Counsel Ken Starr turned over documentation to the House Judiciary Committee. Shortly after the elections, Gingrich, who had been one of the leading advocates for impeachment, announced he would resign from Congress as soon as he was able to find somebody to fill his vacant seat; Gingrich fulfilled this pledge and officially resigned from Congress on January 3, 1999.
Bill Clinton, the 42nd President of the United States, was impeached by the House of Representatives on two charges, one of perjury and one of obstruction of justice, on December 19, 1998. Shortly after the elections, Gingrich, who had been one of the leading advocates for impeachment, announced he would resign from Congress as soon as he was able to find somebody to fill his vacant seat; Gingrich fulfilled this pledge and officially resigned from Congress on January 3, 1999.
The House impeached both Bill Clinton and Nixon mainly for obstruction of justice. But the Senate acquitted Clinton, after a speedy, five-week trial. (See my Feb. 5 column for more of Clinton’s saga). In contrast, Nixon spared himself and his nation from a nasty trial and chose to resign. 
A two-thirds vote (67 senators) was required to remove Clinton from office. Fifty senators voted to remove Clinton on the obstruction of justice charge and 45 voted to remove him on the perjury charge; no Democrat voted guilty on either charge. Shortly after the elections, Gingrich, who had been one of the leading advocates for impeachment, announced he would resign from Congress as soon as he was able to find somebody to fill his vacant seat; Gingrich fulfilled this pledge and officially resigned from Congress on January 3, 1999.
That’s not quite right. President Bill Clinton was impeached on two charges: perjury and obstruction of justice. Mr. Clinton lied under oath about his affair with Monica Lewinsky, but that was not the grounds for impeachment. 
up vote 29 down vote accepted. Bill Clinton was acquitted. The senate did not reach the 2/3's majority needed to fully process his impeachment. To further break it down. Clinton was impeached by the House on two charges. The first being perjury, and the second being obstruction of justice. Following this he was acquitted by the senate.
It requires a two-thirds vote of the Senate to remove an impeached president. President Clinton was impeached in the House (on two counts) but not removed by the Senate. Ditto for President Andrew Johnson (who survived by one vote). The senate did not reach the 2/3's majority needed to fully process his impeachment. To further break it down. Clinton was impeached by the House on two charges. The first being perjury, and the second being obstruction of justice. Following this he was acquitted by the senate.
U.S. WASHINGTON, Dec. 19— William Jefferson Clinton was impeached on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice today by a divided House of Representatives, which recommended virtually along party lines that the Senate remove the nation's 42d President from office. Mr. Clinton became only the second President in history to be impeached, in a stunning day that also brought the resignation of the incoming Speaker of the House, Robert L. Livingston.