What is a host bus adapter (HBA)? An HBA is a hardware device, such as a circuit board or integrated circuit adapter, that provides I/O processing and physical connectivity between a host system, such as a server, and a storage device. HBAs are integral parts of a SAN environment. Typically, the HBA will be recognized by the SAN management software, said Bob Laliberte, an analyst at Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG). In order for a server to be provisioned storage, it needs to have a connection to that storage.
Glycated hemoglobin (hemoglobin A1c, HbA1c, A1C, or Hb1c; sometimes also HbA1c or HGBA1C) is a form of hemoglobin that is measured primarily to identify the average plasma glucose concentration over prolonged periods of time. It is formed in a non-enzymatic glycation pathway by hemoglobin's exposure to plasma glucose. HbA 1c is a measure of the beta-N-1-deoxy fructosyl component of hemoglobin. Normal levels of glucose produce a normal amount of glycated hemoglobin. As the average amount of plasma glucose increases, the fraction of glycated hemoglobin increases in a predictable way. This serves as a marker for average blood glucose levels over the previous 3 months prior to the measurement as this is the half life of red blood cells.
An HBA, or Host Bus Adapter, is an interface card which connects a host or a storage device to a SAN (Storage Area Network). An HBA can also be referred to as an I/O controller. 
What is HbA 1c and what does it measure? Haemoglobin (known as Hb) is present in the red cells of everybody’s blood (it is the Hb of HbA 1c). This is what makes your blood red. Glucose sticks to the haemoglobin in the red blood cells to give what is known as HbA 1c. This happens by way of a complicated chemical reaction. The more glucose there is in the blood, the more glucose is attached to the haemoglobin.
HBAs are typically defined by interconnect technology, speed, port count and system interface. An HBA is sometimes called an HBA card. The HBA card often plugs into the PCI Express (PCIe) slot of a server. Other HBA form factors include mezzanine cards for blade servers. SAS HBAs. A SAS HBA typically connects a server or workstation to a storage device such as a hard disk drive, solid-state drive, JBOD device or tape drive. SAS HBAs are able to connect to single-or dual-port storage devices that are compatible with the serial ATA or SAS
HBA (Host Bus Adapter). A HBA (host bus adapter) is an integrated circuit adapter or circuit board that is designed to provide physical connectivity between a computer host and storage devices or a network. This entity does not have to be a hardware port. It can be implemented in other devices such as an HBA located on a server, a FC switch, or disk storage. Point-to-Point. The Point-to-point (FC-P2P) topology is defined as two devices that are directly connected to each other.
In computer hardware, a host controller, host adapter, or host bus adapter (HBA) connects a host system (the computer) to other network and storage devices. The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI, Fibre Channel and eSATA devices. A SCSI host adapter connects host system to boot from a SCSI device, but also facilitates configuration of the host adapter. Typically a device driver, linked to the operating system, controls the host adapter itself.
The primary purpose of a host bus adapter (HBA) is to connect a computer host to storage and network devices. Other terms that are used to refer to an HBA are host controllers or host adapters with the name typically tied to the devices being connected as well as the I/O functionality provided by the adapter. This entity does not have to be a hardware port. It can be implemented in other devices such as an HBA located on a server, a FC switch, or disk storage. Point-to-Point. The Point-to-point (FC-P2P) topology is defined as two devices that are directly connected to each other.
The term host bus adapter (HBA) is most often used to refer to a Fibre Channel interface card. Fibre Channel HBAs are available for open systems, computer architectures, and buses, including PCI and SBus (obsolete today). A SCSI host adapter connects host system to boot from a SCSI device, but also facilitates configuration of the host adapter. Typically a device driver, linked to the operating system, controls the host adapter itself.