For other uses, see Economy (disambiguation) . An economy (Greek οίκος-household and νέμoμαι - manage) or economic system consists of the production, distribution or trade, and consumption of limited goods and services by different agents in a given geographical location. 
May 19, 2014 by Will Gemma. There are four primary types of economic systems in the world: traditional, command, market and mixed. Each economy has its strengths and weaknesses, its sub-economies and tendencies, and, of course, a troubled history. Below we examine each system in turn and give ample attention to the attributes listed above. 4. Mixed Economic System. A mixed economic system (also known as a Dual Economy) is just like it sounds (a combination of economic systems), but it primarily refers to a mixture of a market and command economy (for obvious reasons, a traditional economy does not typically mix well).
{http://s3.amazonaws.com/engrade-myfiles/4062078742888268/concept_map_economic_systems.bmp}. Concept Map: Economic Systems. An economic system refers to the way in which the resources of a country are used to produce goods and services, and the manner in which these goods and services are distributed for consumption. Definition. Economic systems are characterised by the following: - role of government. Definition. An economic system refers to the way in which the resources of a country are used to produce goods and services, and the manner in which these goods and services are distributed for consumption. Definition.
The world’s economic systems fall into one of four main categories: traditional economy, market economy, command economy and mixed economy; however, there are unlimited variations of each type. An economic system must define what to produce, how to produce it and for whom to produced it. A mixed economy combines qualities of market and command systems into one. In many countries where neither the government nor the business entities can maintain the economy alone, both sectors are integral to economic success. Certain resources are allocated through the market and others through the state.
An economic system refers to the laws and institutions in a nation that determine who owns economic resources, how people buy and sell those resources, and how the production process makes use of resources in providing goods and services. 
An economic system consists of the institutions and the method by which resources are allocated and products and services are distributed. Economic systems differ primarily in who owns the factors of production, how the allocation of resources is directed and the method used to direct economic activity. Communism, also known as a command system, is an economic system where the government owns most of the factors of production and decides the allocation of resources and what products and services will be provided. The most important originators of communist doctrine were Karl Marx and Frederick Engels.
A mixed economic system combines elements of the market and command economy. Many economic decisions are made in the market by individuals. But the government also plays a role in the allocation and distribution of resources. The United States today, like most advanced nations, is a mixed economy. In a command economic system or planned economy, the government controls the economy. The state decides how to use and distribute resources. The government regulates prices and wages; it may even determine what sorts of work individuals do. Socialism is a type of command economic system
An economic system is a system of production and exchange of goods and services as well as allocation of resources in a society. A related concept is the mode of production. The study of economic systems includes how these various agencies and institutions are linked to one another, how information flows between them, and the social relations within the system (including property rights and the structure of management).