Should take 30-45 minutes per pound, but, it all depends on the internal temperature of the pork roast, more than the amount of time. It used to be 165F but some people say that is too long or past rare; and 185F is dry and stringy. How to Make Traditional Pork Roast. My co-worker wants her daughter(13) to put the roast in the oven for her before she gets home, but she did't know at what temp and for how long to tell her to leave it in. She said it is a small 2 lb pork roast.
Continue cooking about 50-80 minutes or until the meat registers 145 degrees on a meat thermometer. Some roasts are long and thin and others are short and fat, consequently the cooking times will vary depending on the shape of your roast. The meat thermometer is the best way to judge the right amount of cooking time. Cooking a Loin Roast: There are many different ways to cook this roast. (Google lists over 1 million options!) According to the Joy of Cooking, cooking the roast for 10 minutes at 450 F. degrees and then reducing the temperature to 250 F. will ensure a tender, moist, flavorful roast.
WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone. Cooking a Loin Roast: There are many different ways to cook this roast. (Google lists over 1 million options!) According to the Joy of Cooking, cooking the roast for 10 minutes at 450 F. degrees and then reducing the temperature to 250 F. will ensure a tender, moist, flavorful roast.
Preheat oven to 350 F. In small bowl, combine thyme, ... Rub mix over roast. Place pork in a small ... cook time. Let stand for 10 minutes before slicing. 
Remove the roast from the oven and set on a cutting board. Cover the meat with tin foil and let it rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. The temperature of the roast will continue to rise about another 5 degrees. Cooking a Loin Roast: There are many different ways to cook this roast. (Google lists over 1 million options!) According to the Joy of Cooking, cooking the roast for 10 minutes at 450 F. degrees and then reducing the temperature to 250 F. will ensure a tender, moist, flavorful roast.
Always position the pork roast in the pan so that fat side is on the top. Measure one tablespoon of olive oil in a small dish. Add 1 Tablespoon of dried spices to the oil. You can use rosemary, sage, thyme, or oregano; or a combination of these that equal 1 tablespoon. Cooking a Loin Roast: There are many different ways to cook this roast. (Google lists over 1 million options!) According to the Joy of Cooking, cooking the roast for 10 minutes at 450 F. degrees and then reducing the temperature to 250 F. will ensure a tender, moist, flavorful roast.
3. Roast. Throw that skillet in the oven for about 10 to 15 minutes more, flipping the tenderloin over halfway through cooking, until the meat reaches 140°F (or, if you don't have a meat thermometer, until it feels firm and springs back when pressed with your finger and the juices run clear when poked with a knife). 
Put the roast in the oven. Leave it uncovered. Let the roast cook for 15 minutes at 450 degrees Fahrenheit. Lower the heat. After 10 minutes at 450 F, reduce the oven temperature to 350 F, and leave it at that temperature for the duration of the cooking time. A 5-lb. beef roast will take approximately another 35 minutes at 350 F for medium rare. A 3-lb pork roast will take about an hour and 25 minutes (85 minutes) at 350 F.
The rule of thumb for pork roasts is to cook them 25 minutes per pound of meat at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 
At what temperature and for how long per pound do you cook a pork roast? My co-worker wants her daughter(13) to put the roast in the oven for her before she gets home, but she did't know at what temp and for how long to tell her to leave it in. She said it is a small 2 lb pork roast. Thanks,