Find the date for Diwali 2014 in the multifaith calendar. Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, is the most popular of all the festivals from South Asia. It is also an occasion for celebration by Jains and Sikhs. The festival of Diwali extends over five days. Because of the lights, fireworks and sweets involved, it's a great favourite with children
Diwali, also known as Deepavali, Dipavali, Dewali, Deepawali or the Festival of Lights, marks the beginning of the Hindu New Year. It is celebrated on the 15th day of Kartika (October/November) in the Hindu calendar. Diwali celebrations can last for about five days. Lanterns for the Diwali celebrations. Lanterns for the Diwali celebrations. Diwali is called the Festival of Lights and is celebrated to honor Rama-chandra, the seventh avatar (incarnation of the god Vishnu). It is believed that on this day Rama returned to his people after 14 years of exile during which he fought and won a battle against the demons and the demon king, Ravana.
Diwali falls on the one new moon night (Amavasya) between mid-October and mid-November. Diwali is celebrated for five days according to the lunisolar. It begins in late Ashvin … (between September and October) and ends in early Kartika (between October and November). The Diwali is considered by Hindu one of the most important celebrations of the year. The festival occurs between mid-October to mid-November in the Gregorian Calender.
Diwali is the Hindu festival of lights which celebrates the New Year. It is India's most important holiday. Diwali is celebrated by Hindus and Sikhs in Britain and all over the world. 
Many activities and events are held in United Kingdom to celebrate Diwali, which is known as the “Festival of Lights”. Diwali is a time for spring cleaning in homes and offices. Many homes that celebrate Diwali have assorted sweets, savories and Diwali herbs. Diwali (Dīvali, Dīpāwali, or Deepavali) is a festival of lights observed on the 15th day of the month of Kartika in the Hindu calendar. Many people in the United Kingdom celebrate Diwali each year. Diwali, also known as Deepavali, is referred as the Festival of Lights.
212,275 Contributions. Deepavali, or Diwali is a Hindu festival celebrating the end of the monsoon; held in October/November, celebrations feature lights, lamps and sometimes fireworks. It is celebr … ated on the new moon day of Kartika, although the celebrations begin two days prior and end two days after that date. The Diwali is considered by Hindu one of the most important celebrations of the year. The festival occurs between mid-October to mid-November in the Gregorian Calender.
Public life. Diwali is not a bank holiday in the United Kingdom but it is celebrated in many towns and cities such as Belfast, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Leicester, and London. There may be traffic congestion and parking places may be full in areas where events are held to celebrate Diwali. Diwali (Dīvali, Dīpāwali, or Deepavali) is a festival of lights observed on the 15th day of the month of Kartika in the Hindu calendar. Many people in the United Kingdom celebrate Diwali each year. Diwali, also known as Deepavali, is referred as the Festival of Lights.
Diwali (or Deepavali, the  festival of lights ) is an ancient Hindu festival celebrated in autumn (northern hemisphere) every year. Diwali is the biggest and the brightest festival in India. Diwali is also a festival of sounds and sights with fireworks and rangoli designs; the festival is a major celebration of flavors with feasts and numerous mithai (sweets, desserts), as well as a festival of emotions where Diwali ritually brings family and friends together
Find the date for Diwali 2014 in the multifaith calendar. The date of Diwali is set by the Hindu calendar so it varies in the Western calendar. It usually falls in October or November. Diwali is a New Year festival in the Vikrama calendar, where it falls on the night of the new moon in the month of Kartika. Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, is the most popular of all the festivals from South Asia. It is also an occasion for celebration by Jains and Sikhs. The festival of Diwali extends over five days.
Diwali is celebrated by Hindus in Britain and all over the world. Diwali is perhaps the most well-known of the Indian festivals. It is a five day celebration which occurs on the fifteenth day of the Hindu month of Kartika (during October/November in the Gregorian calendar). The fourth day of Diwali is the Hindu New Year. The festival of lights is held in honour of Lakshmi (pictured right), the Hindu goddess of wealth and prosperity. Hindus pray to Lakshmi to bring them good luck in the coming year. Diwali celebrates the return of Rama and Sita, in the story from the Ramayana.