The cost to park at the Universal Studios Hollywood amusement park in Universal City, California is $16. 
Guests using any 1-day ticket to visit Universal Studios Hollywood on a day when the park receives over 1/8″ of rainfall by 2:00 p.m. can request their rain check at the Guest Relations office on the same day before park closure. Rain checks are good for a free return visit any time within the following 30 days! For more information and exact operating hours call in advance: 1-800-UNIVERSAL. If your group has more than 10 people please call 1-800-959-9688 ext. 2 for group discount rate.
- One (1) day of admission to ONE (1) Universal Orlando® Resort theme park per day (Universal Studios Florida® OR Universal’s Islands of Adventure®). NOTE: Not valid for the Hogwarts TM Express. Applicable sales tax will be added to all ticket products. 1 The 4-Day Park-to-Park Ticket entitles one (1) guest admission to BOTH UOR theme parks on the same day for the duration of the base ticket. 2  Ticket is valid for any four (4) calendar days during a fourteen (14) consecutive calendar day period which includes the first day any portion of the ticket is used.
The cost to park at Universal Orlando to gain access to Universal Studios, Islands of Adventure and Universal CityWalk are; 1  Regular Parking $20.00. 2  Preferred Parking $25.00. 3  RV/Bus Parking $22.00. 4  Between 6 p.m and 10 p.m $5 * Does not apply to HHN. The costs to park at SeaWorld Orlando are; 1  Spaces are available to cars and motorcycles for $15.00. 2  recreational vehicles for $20.00. 3  Preferred parking available
How much does it cost to park at Disney World? To park at Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney’s Hollywood Studios or Animal Kingdom the following charges will apply. The costs to park at SeaWorld Orlando are; 1  Spaces are available to cars and motorcycles for $15.00. 2  recreational vehicles for $20.00. 3  Preferred parking available
1 Three (3) days of admission to BOTH (2) Universal Orlando® Resort theme park per day (Universal Studios Florida® AND Universal's Islands of Adventure®). 2  Third Day Free based on the online price of 2-Day Park-to-Park Ticket at $194.99, excluding taxes. 1 The 4-Day Park-to-Park Ticket entitles one (1) guest admission to BOTH UOR theme parks on the same day for the duration of the base ticket. 2  Ticket is valid for any four (4) calendar days during a fourteen (14) consecutive calendar day period which includes the first day any portion of the ticket is used.
1 Three (3) days of admission to ONE (1) Universal Orlando® Resort theme park per day (Universal Studios Florida® OR Universal's Islands of Adventure®). 2  Third Day Free based on the online price of 2-Day Base Ticket at $149.99, excluding taxes. 1 The 4-Day Park-to-Park Ticket entitles one (1) guest admission to BOTH UOR theme parks on the same day for the duration of the base ticket. 2  Ticket is valid for any four (4) calendar days during a fourteen (14) consecutive calendar day period which includes the first day any portion of the ticket is used.
1 How much is parking at the Universal Studios Florida amusement park in Orlando, Florida? 
Theme Park Tickets for the Universal Orlando Resort. Universal Orlando® Resort (UOR) theme parks include Universal Studios Florida® and Universal’s Islands of Adventure®. The above Admission Media is non-refundable, non-transferable, and must be used by the same person on all days. 1 The 4-Day Park-to-Park Ticket entitles one (1) guest admission to BOTH UOR theme parks on the same day for the duration of the base ticket. 2  Ticket is valid for any four (4) calendar days during a fourteen (14) consecutive calendar day period which includes the first day any portion of the ticket is used.
Once you get in to one of Universal Orlando’s parking areas, you have five parking options: General – For $17, general parking is the most economic option and allows you to park in one of the two Universal Orlando parking garages. This is a good option, if you arrive early, you can get a good spot near the hub. When you first arrive at Universal Orlando there are two huge parking garages for all three venues (the Universal hotels have their own parking lots, as well as RV/Bus lots, and valet lots), but no matter where you go during your day, you won’t have to move your car again until you leave.