Definition of DELPHINIUM. : any of a large genus (Delphinium) of the buttercup family that comprises chiefly perennial erect branching herbs with palmately divided leaves and irregular flowers in showy spikes and includes several that are poisonous — compare larkspur. See delphinium defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Delphinium's origin is Old Greek. The first name is derived from the name of the Delphinium flower, which is ultimately from the Old Greek delphis delphís in allusion to the shape of the opening. Flower a variant Of delphinium Is. Delfinium delphinium is a baby girl name of irregular. use [ syll. del -(p)hi-niu(m) , de-lphini-um ] The baby girl name Delphinium is pronounced D EH LF-IH NiyAHM †. Delphinium's origin is Old Greek. The first name is derived from the name of the Delphinium flower, which is ultimately from the Old Greek delphis delphís in allusion to the shape of the opening. flower
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: 
• DELPHINIUM AJACIS (noun). The noun DELPHINIUM AJACIS has 1 sense: 1. commonly cultivated larkspur of southern Europe having unbranched spikelike racemes of blue or sometimes purplish or pinkish flowers; sometime placed in genus Delphinium. Familiarity information: DELPHINIUM AJACIS used as a noun is very rare. Holonyms (Delphinium ajacis is a member of...): Consolida; genus Consolida (plants having flowers resembling the larkspur's but differing from larkspur's in the arrangement of petals; sometimes included in genus Delphinium).
A baby name that sounds like Delphinium is Delfinium. † approx English pronunciation for Delphinium: D as in day (D.EY) ; EH as in ebb (EH.B) ; L as in lay (L.EY) ; F as in fee (F.IY) ; IH as in it (IH.T) ; N as in knee (N.IY) ; IY as in eat (IY.T) ; AH as in mud (M.AH.D) ; M as in me (M.IY). [ syll. del -(p)hi-niu(m) , de-lphini-um ] The baby girl name Delphinium is pronounced D EH LF-IH NiyAHM †. Delphinium's origin is Old Greek. The first name is derived from the name of the Delphinium flower, which is ultimately from the Old Greek delphis delphís in allusion to the shape of the opening. flower
This is the British English definition of delphinium. View American English definition of delphinium. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for delphinium. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.
The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 
The first name is derived from the name of the Delphinium flower, which is ultimately from the Old Greek delphis delphís in allusion to the shape of the opening. Flower a variant Of delphinium Is. Delfinium delphinium is a baby girl name of irregular. Use it is not listed in the top. 1000 [ syll. del -(p)hi-niu(m) , de-lphini-um ] The baby girl name Delphinium is pronounced D EH LF-IH NiyAHM †. Delphinium's origin is Old Greek. The first name is derived from the name of the Delphinium flower, which is ultimately from the Old Greek delphis delphís in allusion to the shape of the opening. flower