1 The seizure may begin with an aura or simple partial seizure or they begin with a complex partial that continues and changes into the secondary generalized seizure. 2  The secondary generalized part begins usually with stiffening of the muscles. 3  Air being forced past the vocal cords causes a cry or groan. 1 These seizures generally last 1 to 3 minutes. 2  A tonic-clonic seizure that lasts longer than 5 minutes is a medical emergency. 3  It may be difficult to distinguish these seizures from primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, especially if they occur during sleep or are not seen by anyone else.
Generalized epilepsy is primary because the epilepsy is the originally diagnosed condition itself, as opposed to secondary epilepsy, which occurs as a symptom of a diagnosed condition. Generalized seizures can be either absence seizures, myoclonic seizures, clonic seizures, tonic-clonic seizures or atonic seizures.
1 Epilepsy is a brain disorder in which clusters of nerve cells, or neurons, in the brain sometimes signal abnormally causing strange sensations, emotions, and behavior, or sometimes convulsions, muscle spasms, and loss of consciousness. 2  Epilepsy is not contagious and is not caused by mental illness or mental retardation. 1 Epilepsy is not contagious and is not caused by mental illness or mental retardation. 2  Sometimes severe seizure can cause brain damage, but most seizures do not seem to have a detrimental effect on the brain. 3  Epilepsy has many possible causes, from illness to brain damage to abnormal brain development.
1 These seizures are called secondary generalized because they start in one area and spread to both sides of the brain. 2  They usually last 1 to 3 minutes, but it may take a lot longer for a person to recover. 1 These seizures generally last 1 to 3 minutes. 2  A tonic-clonic seizure that lasts longer than 5 minutes is a medical emergency. 3  It may be difficult to distinguish these seizures from primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, especially if they occur during sleep or are not seen by anyone else.
Practice Essentials. Epilepsy is defined as a brain disorder characterized by an enduring predisposition to generate epileptic seizures and by the neurobiologic, cognitive, psychological, and social consequences of this condition. 
ADVERTISEMENT. 1  These seizures are called secondary generalized because they start in one area and spread to both sides of the brain. 2  They usually last 1 to 3 minutes, but it may take a lot longer for a person to recover. 3  A secondary tonic clonic seizure lasting longer than 5 minutes is a medical emergency. 1 These seizures generally last 1 to 3 minutes. 2  A tonic-clonic seizure that lasts longer than 5 minutes is a medical emergency. 3  It may be difficult to distinguish these seizures from primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, especially if they occur during sleep or are not seen by anyone else.
A. Epilepsy is the occurrence of sporadic electrical storms in the brain commonly called seizures. These storms cause behavioral manifestations (such as staring) or involuntary movements (such as grand mal seizures). There are several types of epilepsy, each with different causes, symptoms, and treatments. 
Seizures are episodes of altered brain function that cause motor, cognitive, and sensory changes thought to result from changes in excitability in neurons. A Seizure Disorder (also called Epileptic Disorder) is a tendency toward recurrent seizure activity without evidence of a reversible metabolic cause. Provoked And Unprovoked Seizures: Unprovoked Seizures (also known as Primary Seizures or Idiopathic Seizures) are those seizures that have no determined cause. Multiple episodes of unprovoked seizures are considered a seizure disorder.
Generalized epilepsy, also known as primary generalized epilepsy or idiopathic epilepsy, is a form of epilepsy characterised by generalised seizures with no apparent cause. Generalized seizures can be either absence seizures, myoclonic seizures, clonic seizures, tonic-clonic seizures or atonic seizures.
Generalized seizures, as opposed to partial seizures, are a type of seizure that impairs consciousness and distorts the electrical activity of the whole or a larger portion of the brain (which can be seen, for example, on electroencephalography, EEG). Generalized seizures can be either absence seizures, myoclonic seizures, clonic seizures, tonic-clonic seizures or atonic seizures.