PUK stands for 'PIN Unlock Key'. It's a unique code that is linked to your specific SIM card and is usually 8 digits long. Some phones may ask for a PUC code instead. This stands for 'PIN Unlock Code' and is exactly the same thing as a PUK Code. By calling your network provider. The PUK code is unique to your SIM card, so you can only get this from your mobile network. Sometimes they will give you this when you first get the SIM card, but not all networks do this.
Enter your PUK code into your mobile. If you incorrectly enter your PUK code 10 times, your SIM card will be automatically wiped and will need to be replaced. 1  Enter the PUK code into your mobile device. 2  Enter a new PIN into your device. 3  Verify your new PIN. A PUK or 'Personal Unlocking Key' is a security feature on most mobile devices that protects your SIM card data. A PUK code is required when a SIM Card PIN code has been entered incorrectly.
When you insert the SIM card into another phone, the phone prompts you for the code. If you put in the code wrong three times, the phone will lock the PIN and ask for a PIN Unlocking Key. Step 1. Contact your cellular carrier. Some phones allow you to call the carrier even if the PUK is locked. GSM phones give you the option to set a PIN code on the SIM card as a security measure. If you only set a phone lock and you lose your phone, someone can remove the SIM and insert it into another phone.
PUK Code. The Personal Unblocking Code (PUK code) is a security feature to protect the SIM card user in case of phone theft. When an unknown user attempts to unlock your phone by putting the wrong PIN code three consecutive times, the card will get blocked. If you are wondering what is a PIN code and PUK code and the difference between them, then let me explain. A PIN code is Personal Identification Number that is necessary for protection of your SIM card from non-sanctioned access. Whenever you switch on your phone, you need to enter a PIN code
A personal unblocking code (PUC), also known as a PIN unlock key (PUK), is used in 3GPP mobile phones to reset a personal identification number (PIN) that has been lost or forgotten. Most mobile telephones offer the feature of PIN protection. 
Enter PUK number to Unblock. The cellphone will prompt you to enter the PUK number (Personal Unblocking Key) when a blocked SIM card is inserted. If it does not then just reboot the phone. After you have entered the correct PUK code, you must set a new security PIN number. Summary. If your mobile phone is SIM locked and asking for the PUC or PUK number follow our above instructions on how to find the PUK code. Use our list to find the wireless network that your SIM card is blocked on to contact them for the PUK number. Enter the code and don’t forget to set a new PIN.
WARNING! Do not try and guess your PUK code. If you enter it wrong 10 times, the SIM card will be permanently locked and you will need to get a new one from your network provider. There may be a charge for a new SIM card and you might be stuck without your phone for a couple of days while they send it out. By calling your network provider. The PUK code is unique to your SIM card, so you can only get this from your mobile network. Sometimes they will give you this when you first get the SIM card, but not all networks do this.
Instructions. Don’t try to guess your phone's PUK code. If you enter the wrong code three times, or sometimes five times depending on your phone type, you will end up with a completely locked SIM card that will need to be replaced. Go to your online cell phone account. 