Role of the Lieutenant Governor. The Lieutenant Governor is the second highest elected official in the state and, as such, has a great deal of influence on state policy and the establishment of spending priorities.
The lieutenant governor is the first successor to the Office of the Governor in the event of vacancy. Additionally, the lieutenant governor shall perform the duties and exercise the powers that may be delegated to him by the Governor.
All of the state's ten lieutenant governors, from 1948 until 2003, served in state government, usually holding a seat in the state legislature, before running for office. On one occasion a sitting governor, Lester Maddox, ran for and won election as lieutenant governor when his gubernatorial term was over in 1970.
The Lieutenant Governor is elected separately from the Governor and each can be a member of different political parties. Missouri ‘s Constitution provides that the Lieutenant Governor assumes the powers and duties of the Governor when the Governor is absent from the state or unable to serve. Art.
The lieutenant governor of the State of Missouri is elected for a four-year term and is subject to re-election with no limit as to number of terms. The lieutenant governor is elected separate from the governor and runs independently rather than as a team.
A candidate for lieutenant governor must be at least thirty years old upon assuming office, a U.S. citizen for a minimum of fifteen years, and a resident of Georgia for at least six years before election. The term of office is four years.
48 U.S. Code § 1422 - Governor and Lieutenant Governor; term of office; qualifications; powers and duties; annual report to Congress.
Thereafter, beginning with the year 1974, the Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be elected every four years at the general election. The Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall hold office for a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
There is hereby established the office of Lieutenant Governor of Guam. The Lieutenant Governor shall have such executive powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to him by the Governor or prescribed by this chapter or under the laws of Guam.
Lieutenant governor--qualifications, powers and duties. Section 10. There shall be a lieutenant governor who shall have the same qualifications as the governor and shall be ex officio president of the senate.