Spanning Sydney Harbour at a maximum height of 134 metres, the Sydney Harbour Bridge is a spectacular feat of engineering and an enduring icon famous the world over. And despite efforts to capture Sydney's signature attraction on film, there’s nothing quite like seeing it for yourself. 
1 The closest railway station to the Sydney Harbour Bridge on the CBD side of the city is Circular Quay. 2  Entrance to the Bridge is via Cumberland Street, The Rocks. 3  You can walk across the bridge to Milsons Point. 4  On north side of the bridge is Milsons Point railway station. 
Previous Next. See Sydney like a local-take the climb of your life to the top of the Sydney Harbour Bridge with BridgeClimb Sydney. With their Climb Leaders as your guide, you will suit-up in their specially designed outdoor gear and ascend. From its fascinating underbelly to its summit, 134 metres above the Harbour, the Bridge is the pride of Sydney.
The climb base. Situated within the original historic architecture of the Sydney Harbour Bridge, the Climb Base is the beginning of your BridgeClimb experience. Spend some time exploring our Visitor Centre and Cinema or enjoy a refreshment in our Cafe café before checking in for Your climb at our front. desk
Sydney Harbour attractions. On the southern side of Circular Quay a walkway leads to the Sydney Opera House and Royal Botanical Gardens. On the northern side, a short walk takes you to the Sydney Harbour Bridge and The Rocks. Climb to the summit of the Sydney Harbour Bridge for views as far as the eye can see. Experience a performance at the world-famous Sydney Opera House, or take a guided behind-the-scenes tour
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail, vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district (CBD) and the North Shore. On 18 March 2007, the Sydney Harbour Bridge celebrated its 75th anniversary. The occasion was marked with a ribbon-cutting ceremony by the governor, Marie Bashir and the premier of New South Wales, Morris Iemma. The bridge was subsequently open to the public to walk southward from Milsons Point or North Sydney.
The Sydney Harbour Bridge (Sydney's greatest tourism icon) - on a par with San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge, New York's Statue of Liberty, London's Tower Bridge and the Eiffel Tower in Paris-took eight years to build and opened in March 1932. Where the Golden Gate suspension system loops down to the centre, the Sydney Harbour Bridge loops up. At its highest point, the arch is 134 metres above sea level. Taking into account the road approaches, 'the bridge' is 1150 metres or about a mile long.
Image courtesy of Virtual Australia. The Sydney Harbour Bridge is one of Australia's most well known and photographed landmarks. It is the world's largest (but not the longest) steel arch bridge with the top of the bridge standing 134 metres above the harbour. However, after the First World War more serious plans were made, with a general design for the Sydney Harbour Bridge prepared by Dr J J C Bradfield and officers of the NSW Department of Public Works.
The Harbour Bridge Pylon is the ‘tower’ nearest to the camera. Climb the Sydney Harbour Bridge Pylon! For slightly more than a burger and chips at Circular Quay you can climb the 200 steps to the top of the southern pylon of the Harbour Bridge. You could treat the Pylon Lookout as an appetiser for the Bridge Climb or as an alternative.