In the culinary arts, five spice (also known as Chinese five spice) is a blend of ground spices used in Chinese and Vietnamese cooking. One theory behind the composition of five spice powder is that it is intended to incorporate the five main flavors of sweet, sour, salty, bitter and pungent. The traditional five spice powder is made of ground cloves, cinnamon, fennel seeds, star anise and Szechuan pepper. This makes for a potent blend, and five spice is best used in moderation. Five spice powder can be used for seasoning meats and poultry, in marinades or in spice rubs.
Generally though, Chinese five spice is dominated by the aroma and flavour of star anise. It is used in many Asian recipes, its sweet tangy flavour goes well with greasy meats like pork and duck. Stir-fried vegetables are enhanced by sprinkling about a teaspoon of Chinese five-spice over them when cooking. The spices included here are the most commonly used in five-spice powder, with the sweet tones of star anise, cloves and cinnamon with the bite of Szechwan pepper, all married together wtih ground fennel seeds. Some recipes use them in equal proportions, others use more of one to heighten a specific flavor.
If you want to create an authentic Chinese dish, you have to use authentic ingredients. Some recipes will suggest substitutions, like using black pepper instead of Szechuan peppercorns or employing allspice in place of five-spice powder, but using the real thing makes a big difference. Although Chinese spices and sauces are usually used in small amounts to enhance recipes, they offer subtle flavor, depth and sometimes a unique kick that you can't get from anything else.
The Chinese have a long tradition of using herbs and spices to boost a dish’s flavor (and provide nutritional benefits). You can now find many Chinese herbs and spices at supermarkets and specialty food stores. For Chinese culinary creations, you can’t go wrong with these Chinese herbs and spices: 
The Chinese Five Spice blend is a staple in Chinese cooking, and is often used in a technique called “flavour potting”, where meat is steeped in a rich sauce and cooked for long hours. The spices included here are the most commonly used in five-spice powder, with the sweet tones of star anise, cloves and cinnamon with the bite of Szechwan pepper, all married together wtih ground fennel seeds. Some recipes use them in equal proportions, others use more of one to heighten a specific flavor.
Chinese Spices List. We’ve listed the most common ingredients you’ll need for your favorite, Asian meals. Gather fresh cut vegetables, sliced meats such as pork, chicken, or beef, or soy substitutes and stir-fry with seasonings. Spoon the combinations over noodles or rice and-pow-you’ll have a knock-out Asian meal.
The powder is ideal for seasoning chicken as a dry rub, or for layering the flavors as a soup base. Szechuan peppercorn, one of the components of five spice powder, is unique to Chinese cuisine, whereas many of the other spices and herbs used are common to Vietnamese, Mongolian, Indian and Thai cooking, among others. 
For Bengali five-spice mixture, see Panch phoron. Five-spice powder is a spice mixture of five spices, used primarily in Chinese cuisine but also used in other Asian and Arabic cookery.It is very common in India, being used in north Indian and South Indian cookery extensively. 
Chinese 5 Spice Blend Chinese 5 Spice Blend This blend of five spices, extensively used in Chinese cuisine, brings warm, spicy-sweet flavors to stir-fries and roasted meats, as well as spice cakes and cookies. 0 out of 5 stars, based on 0 user reviews. McCormick Gourmet™ Chinese 5 Spice Blend. %Match. This blend of five spices, extensively used in Chinese cuisine, brings warm, spicy-sweet flavors to stir-fries and roasted meats, as well as spice cakes and cookies.