Rotterdam Central Station is also known as the international gateway to Rotterdam. Nearly 110,000 travellers pass through Central Station every day to catch a bus, tram, metro or train. ss Rotterdam. The Steamship Rotterdam is the biggest ocean-going steamer ever built in the Netherlands. As the former flagship of the Holland-America Line, this cruise liner has sailed many of the world's seas since 1959. The ship is now moored permanently in the Maashaven in Rotterdam, by Katendrecht.
Rotterdam, a city in the Netherlands is the second largest municipality in the country. The name 'Rotterdam' has been derived from a dam in a small river, the Rotte that joins the Nieuwe Maas at the heart of the city. Rotterdam attained city rights in 1340. The city was the completely destroyed in the bombings of the German Luftwaffe in 1940. Since 2004 Asian ports like Singapore and Shanghai have taken over its world leading position and now it has become the seventh largest port in the world in terms of cargo traffic.
The port of Rotterdam is the largest cargo port in Europe and the 10th largest in the world. Rotterdam's logistic success is based on its strategic location on the North Sea, directly at the mouth of the Nieuwe Maas (New Meuse) channel leading into the Rhine–Meuse–Scheldt delta. Built mostly behind dikes, large parts of the Rotterdam are below sea level. For instance, the Prins Alexander Polder in the northeast of Rotterdam extends 6 metres (20 ft) below sea level, or rather below Normaal Amsterdams Peil (NAP) or 'Amsterdam Ordnance Datum'.
Rotterdam is a city located in the Netherlands. It is the second largest city in the Netherlands and one of the largest ports in the world. The city started as a dam in 1270. Rotterdam is one of the 4 largest cities in the Netherlands. It is to be found in the province called Zuid Holland (South Holland).   Zuid Holland is in the southwest … ern part of the Netherlands. Rotterdam with its huge and famous harbour is divided into two parts by the river called Maas. In the region of Rotterdam there is lots of industry to be found
Rotterdam is also well served by NS from other parts of the Netherlands, with direct connections to Amsterdam, Delft, Eindhoven, Gouda, Leiden, The Hague, Utrecht and Flushing. See also the Netherlands page for further information on national rail. Rotterdam is served by an international rail link, operating out of Rotterdam Centraal Station, from Belgium and France. High-speed trains from Antwerp (Antwerpen-Berchem, 30min), Brussels (Brussels Midi, 1h12) and Paris (Paris Nord, 2h37) are operated by Thalys. Book well in advance to secure the best ticket deals.
Rotterdam is home to some world-famous architecture from renowned architects like Rem Koolhaas, Piet Blom, Ben van Berkel and others. Recently Rotterdam was listed 8th in The Rough Guide Top 10 Cities to Visit and was voted 2015 European City of the Year by the Academy of Urbanism. Built mostly behind dikes, large parts of the Rotterdam are below sea level. For instance, the Prins Alexander Polder in the northeast of Rotterdam extends 6 metres (20 ft) below sea level, or rather below Normaal Amsterdams Peil (NAP) or 'Amsterdam Ordnance Datum'.
Satellite view is showing Rotterdam, second largest city and the principal port of the Netherlands. The city is situated in the province of Zuid (South) Holland on the banks of the river Nieuwe Maas, a distributary of the Rhine River, about 30 km east from the Rhine's estuary mouth in the North Sea. Official language is Dutch. The Map shows a city map of Rotterdam with expressways, main roads and streets, zoom out to find Rotterdam Airport (IATA code: RTM), located about locate 6 km (4 mi) by road (via S112 and Fairoaksbaan) northwest of the city center.