Human Energy = Loosh – Food for the Archons. Loosh is defined by the urban dictionary as “an energy generated by all organic life in varying degrees of purity, the clearest and most potent coming from humans – engendered by human activity”. Shocking as it may seem, humans are not at the top of the food chain. Listen to what Bronte Baxter had to say about the human farm and loosh in her article Tracking the Crack in the Universe (Loosh 101) : “Reportedly the light being told Monroe that when humans die, their energy is released and harvested by trans-dimensional beings, who use it to extend their own life spans.
Apparently, loosh is called by many names. Thoth may havecalled it The Hall of Records, is/was called Vril by the Germanic tribes,whereas Gregg Braden calls it The Divine Matrix. Native Americans call it The Great Spirit. Hinduism calls it prana. The Chinese call it Ch'I. 
As such, these ordinary human realities, this common, everyday “loosh,” is perhaps the most fruitful for the dark contingent, and thus their PTB (‘Were’) engineering of society and life to keep humans functioning at a very low calibration, such that there is ‘always abundant food for the gods’ table,’ so to speak. 
Loosh is a mimmickry of God's Holy Spirit. It is the Holy Spirit that anoints and empowers God's people and this is how loosh works for Lucifer's people. A Satanic counterfeit and mimmickry of God's Holy Spirit. Without loosh Satan's ability to manifest and operate in this realm would be limited. This is loosh created from terror, pain, suffering, agony, horror, injury, and death. A slow, suffering death is preferred with intense agony. These types of emotions created by all these kinds of feelings and pain are what are fed off of.
So perhaps an animal’s goodness (we could say the animal’s loosh, and the quality of its energy) is consumed by the animal’s destroyer, and that goodness or loosh gives them energy. This is not to justify eating animals. I think it’s horrible. But perhaps it explains why we have the craving to do it. If the concept of Loosh is as you have described, maybe our best hope lies in the concept of CHI cultivation. Concerving and storing Chi as they do in Tai Chi and other various forms of martial arts may allow us to retain the power within us and create a freedom we have not experienced in many eons.
Gender: The meaning of Loosh Mar 27th, 2005 at 4:31pm. I think most of you have read Monroes books-like i did some time ago. When it comes to Loosh i always thought of it as some sort of emotional energy, as a synonyme for love. A few minutes ago i found that i either need to improve my english reading skills (i'm German) or really was off track here. In a text about RAM, Loosh and the creation of earth, the author states: -- cut ---
And then there is a completely hideous side of loosh. This is loosh created from terror, pain, suffering, agony, horror, injury, and death. A slow, suffering death is preferred with intense agony. These types of emotions created by all these kinds of feelings and pain are what are fed off of.
Loosh. 1.an energy generated by all organic life in varying degrees of purity, the clearest and most potent coming from humans-engendered by human activity which tigers emotion, the highest of such emotion being Love/Loosh. 1. New Age term applied to energy produced by human beings that other entities use to feed from. 2. It is also used to refer to the energy that is produced by suffering that entities feed.
This page explains the loosh-perspective and tries to see its use in the further evolution of the paradigm that I work with. Jim Dekorne cites Monroe again to present the various ways that loosh was produced and ultimately harvested by the 'loosh-collectors' that brought the loosh to 'Somewhere'. From experience, the Collectors have evolved an entire technology with complementary tools for the harvesting of Loosh from the Type 4M [i.e.