The word wireless is dictionary defined as  having no wires . In networking terminology, wireless is the term used to describe any computer network where there is no physical wired connection between sender and receiver, but rather the network is connected by radio waves and/or microwaves to maintain communications.
A wireless distribution system (WDS) is a method of interconnecting access points (AP) in a wireless local area network (WLAN) without requiring that they connect through a wired backbone. The IEEE 802.11 standard defines a distribution system as the infrastructure used to connect access points. The most common use of a wireless distribution system is to bridge a WLAN spanning two buildings. The simplest WDS consists of two access points configured to forward messages to each other, working in conjunction with an antenna that enables line-of-sight communication.
Mobile workforce management (MWM) is a category of software and related services used to manage employees working outside the ... See complete definition. Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi is the popular term for a high-frequency wireless local area network (WLAN) technology and standard that has gained ... The most common use of a wireless distribution system is to bridge a WLAN spanning two buildings. The simplest WDS consists of two access points configured to forward messages to each other, working in conjunction with an antenna that enables line-of-sight communication.
The Wireless Distribution System basically enables wireless interconnection of access points in an 802.11 network expand by using multiple access points without a wired backbone. 
1 Mobile wireless -- the use of wireless devices or systems aboard motorized, moving vehicles; examples include the automotive cell phone and PCS (personal communications services). Wireless can be divided into: 1  Fixed wireless -- the operation of wireless devices or systems in homes and offices, and in particular, equipment connected to the Internet via specialized modems.
In the most general sense, a wireless system is any collection of elements (or subsystems) that operate interdependently and use unguided electromagnetic-wave propagation to perform some specified function(s). 1 Systems that convey information between two or more locations, such as personal communication systems (PCS), police and fire department radio systems, commercial broadcast systems, satellite broadcast systems, telemetry and remote monitoring systems.
Some examples of systems that fit this definition are. 1  Systems that convey information between two or more locations, such as personal communication systems (PCS), police and fire department radio systems, commercial broadcast systems, satellite broadcast systems, telemetry and remote monitoring systems. 1
Wireless is a term used to describe telecommunications in which electromagnetic waves (rather than some form of wire) carry the signal over part or all of the communication path. Wireless can be divided into: 1  Fixed wireless -- the operation of wireless devices or systems in homes and offices, and in particular, equipment connected to the Internet via specialized modems.
wireless. adj. 1. (Telecommunications) communicating without connecting wires or other material contacts: wireless networks; wireless internet connection. 2. (Computer Science) communicating without connecting wires or other material contacts: wireless networks; wireless internet connection. n. wireless-having no wires; a wireless security system. wired-equipped with wire or wires especially for electric or telephone service; a well-wired house.
Wireless communication is the transfer of information between two or more points that are not connected by an electrical conductor. The most common wireless technologies use radio. With radio waves distances can be short, such as a few meters for television or as far as thousands or even millions of kilometers for deep-space radio communications. 