Serratia bacteria are common inhabitants of our environment and can be found in many places, including human and animal feces, dust, soil, and in surface waters. The bacteria will grow in any moist location where phosphorous containing materials or fatty substances accumulate. More recently, Serratia marcescens has been found to be pathogenic to a very small percentage of people, having been identified as a cause of urinary tract infections, wound infections, and pneumonia in hospital environments.
Investigators found the deadly Serratia Marcescens bacteria in cultures from 16 of the 52 soap bottles and the pathogen was discovered in cultures on 1 of the 15 sinks. The investigation uncovered that water was allowed to pool in and around the sink long enough for the bacteria to grow. Serratia Marcescens can be deadly in humans as documented in 1996 when the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) investigated the deaths of infants at the Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, MA. The Medical Center contacted the CDC when it discovered 32 infants infected with some form of the disease.
Serratia marcescens is a Gram negative, rod shaped bacterium belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae. It is known to cause several nosocomial infections, especially, catheter-induced bacteremia, UTI, and wound infections. Given its omnipresence in the environment, and its partiality towards moist conditions, S. marcescens proliferates in the bathrooms, where it is seen as a pinkish discoloration and oily film proliferating on soap and shampoo residues and phosphorus-containing materials.
The most likely cause is an airborne bacteria called Serratia Marcescens. This bacteria is common and generally grows in damp conditions such as those found in bathrooms and kitchens. Serratia produces a pinkish film on surfaces that are regularly moist and subject to humid conditions. 
Serratia marcescens Kayla Buchholz Serratia marcescens is a Gram negative, bacillus shaped bacteria that belongs to the family Enterobacteriaceae. In 1819, Bartolomeo Bizio, an Italian pharmacist from Padua, discovered S. marcescens. Bizio identified the bacterium as the cause of the miraculous bloody discoloration of cornmeal mush, or polenta. He named Serratia in honor of the Italian physicist Serratia who invented the steamboat, and named marcescens from the Latin word for decaying because the bloody coloration quickly disappeared. Key characteristics of S. marcescens include the production of Dnase, lipase and gelatinase, and it is oxidase negative.
Serratia marsescens is not known to cause any waterborne diseases. Members of the Serratia genus were once known as harmless organisms that produced a characteristic red pigment. More recently, Serratia marcescens has been found to be pathogenic to a very small percentage of people, having been identified as a cause of urinary tract infections, wound infections, and pneumonia in hospital environments.
Serratia Marcescens is a human pathogenic species of Serratia. It is sometimes linked to disease in humans. The disease is commonly known as either Serratia plymuthica, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia rubidaea, Serratia odorifera, or Serratia fonticola. Serratia Marcescens can be deadly in humans as documented in 1996 when the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) investigated the deaths of infants at the Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, MA. The Medical Center contacted the CDC when it discovered 32 infants infected with some form of the disease.
S. marcescens may also be found in environments such as dirt, supposedly sterile places, and the subgingival biofilm of teeth. Due to this, and because S. marcescens produces a reddish-orange tripyrrole pigment called prodigiosin, it may cause staining of the teeth. The biochemical pathway for the production of prodigiosin by S. marcescens is unknown except for the final two steps. In these steps, a monopyrrole and a bipyrrole undergo a condensation reaction by way of an enzyme to form prodigiosin. S. marcescens results in a negative test. Another determination of S. marcescens is its capability to produce lactic acid by oxidative and fermentative metabolism. Therefore, it is said that S. marcescens is lactic acid O/F+.
The ‘blood’ that appeared on the bread was most likely the bacteria, Serratia marcescens. Serratia marcescens is a gram negative rod shaped bacteria from the family Enterobacteriaceae. S. marcescens is a facultative anaerobe, using oxygen if it is there, but will use fermentation if necessary. S. marcescens was discovered by Bartolomeo Bizio, an Italian pharmacist, in 1819. He saw that sometimes polenta appeared to be bloody and it was actually because of the S. marcescens. S. marcescens causes nosocomial infections, which are infections that come from being at a hospital.