Tip: See What Lies Beneath. Since shiplap was commonly used as insulation in farmhouse-style homes, check under the existing wall surface before starting a renovation project. In this home featured in HGTV Magazine, designer Joanna Gaines found shiplap walls hidden under crumbling wallpaper. Fixer Upper hosts Chip and Joanna Gaines brought in shiplap for a paneled feature wall behind the farmhouse sink.
What I have been noticing is where wood is used in conjunction with sheetrock and what I have determined is it really looks good anyway: sheetrock on ceilings with shiplap wood walls OR sheetrock on walls with wood/shiplap ceilings. And here on Houzz used on ceiling and walls with coffered ceiling in next room…the flows of these treatements intrigue me. And while I typically think of shiplap as being white it is of course done wonderful here by Phoebe Howard in gray.
- Julia. I’ve always loved the look of shiplap-paneled walls, so when we decided to give our son Jake’s room a makeover, I thought it would be the perfect opportunity to try it. How to Hang (Fake) Shiplap Paneling. I’ve always loved the look of shiplap-paneled walls, so when we decided to give our son Jake’s room a makeover, I thought it would be the perfect opportunity to try it. Shiplap can get pricey, though, and our budget was pretty tight, so we decided to fake it instead
Article Posted By: Danielle Driscoll. The shiplap walls in this she shed help create the rustic, beachy look designer Danielle Driscoll was looking for. Take a look at her blog, Finding Silver Pennies, and you’ll see that Danielle is pretty much an expert on how to achieve this coastal look. Danielle was kind enough also to show us exactly how she created the authentic shiplap walls in her she shed and painted them, so you can incorporate it in your own backyard retreat, bedroom.
Shiplap is a type of wooden board used commonly in the construction of barns, sheds, outbuildings and inexpensive or seasonal homes. It is either rough-sawn 1 or milled 3/4 pine or similarly inexpensive wood between 3 and 10 wide with a 3/8 - 1/2 rabbet on opposite sides of each end. The rabbet allows the boards to overlap in this area. Shiplap is also used indoors for the rough or rustic look that it creates when used as paneling or a covering for a wall or ceiling. Shiplap is often used to describe any rabbeted siding material that overlaps in a similar fashion.
Shiplap siding is a type of exterior or interior paneling, most commonly made of wood, with tight joints that are formed by the overlap of one board on top of another. It is most often 3/4 of an inch or 1 inch thick and between 3 inches and 10 inches wide. 
Pine-Plank Walls. Shiplap, pine-plank walls in the entry provide a farmhouse feel and the background for a group of vintage botanical prints. An antique pine bench provides a convenient spot for the Drews’ daughter, L.A., to help granddaughter Mabry put her boots on