Safety assessments of bisphenol A (BPA) conclude that the potential human exposure to BPA from polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins is more than 400 times lower than the safe level of BPA set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a chemical used to make polycarbonate plastic. Polycarbonate plastic is used to make hard plastic items, such as baby bottles, re-useable water bottles, food containers, pitchers, tableware and other storage containers. You can also find polycarbonate plastic in eyeglass lenses, CDs, DVDs, computers, appliances, sports safety equipment and many other products. Although BPA is primarily used to make polycarbonate plastics, other plastic materials may also contain BPA. BPA is also used to make epoxy resins. Epoxy resin linings coat the inside of metal products such as food cans, bottle tops and water supply pipes.
Bisphenol A-Toxic Plastics Chemical in Canned Food: Consumer tips to avoid BPA exposure. Although completely eliminating exposure to BPA may not be possible, there are steps you can take to reduce your family's exposure to this chemical. Infant formula: All U.S. manufacturers use BPA-based lining on the metal portions of the formula containers.
BPA Basics. BPA is a chemical that has been used to harden plastics for more than 40 years. It's everywhere. It's in medical devices, compact discs, dental sealants, water bottles, the lining of canned foods and drinks, and many other products. More than 90% of us have BPA in our bodies right now. In 2008, the possible health risks of the Bisphenol A (BPA) -- a common chemical in plastic -- made headlines. Parents were alarmed, pediatricians inundated with questions, and stores sold-out of BPA-free bottles and sippy cups.
Bisphenol A (BPA). Bisphenol A (BPA) is used to manufacture polycarbonate plastics. This type of plastic is used to make some types of beverage containers, compact disks, plastic dinnerware, impact-resistant safety equipment, automobile parts, and toys. 
Knowledge center. Bisphenol A, often known as BPA is a chemical found in hard plastics and the coatings of food and drinks cans which can behave in a similar way to estrogen and other hormones in the human body. BPA can also be found in epoxy resins which is used as coatings inside food and drinks cans. Bisphenol A is an endocrine disruptor-a substance which interferes with the production, secretion, transport, action, function and elimination of natural hormones.
BPA stands for bisphenol A. BPA is an industrial chemical that has been used to make certain plastics and resins since the 1960s. BPA is found in polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins. Some dental sealants and composites also may contain BPA. Some research has shown that BPA can seep into food or beverages from containers that are made with BPA. Exposure to BPA is a concern because of possible health effects of BPA on the brain, behavior and prostate gland of fetuses, infants and children. However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has said that BPA is safe at the very low levels that occur in some food
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an organic synthetic compound with the chemical formula (CH 3) 2 C(C 6 H 4 OH) 2 belonging to the group of diphenylmethane derivatives and bisphenols, with two hydroxyphenyl groups. BPA is employed to make certain plastics and epoxy resins. BPA-based plastic is clear and tough, and is made into a variety of common consumer goods, such as water bottles, sports equipment, CDs, and DVDs.