Yes. A small INFECTION in the ear canal may be the cause. The infection will probably go away by itself in 2 to 5 days. A mild pain reliever and warm compresses may help relieve the pain. See your doctor if the pain becomes severe or if redness and warmth spread into the ear
DO remember that a small amount of clean wax is required by your ear drum to lubricate, and when the wax is dirty your body starts to move it out the ear. wiseornotyoudecide · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. After a while your body starts to help you eject all the wax that you pushed up your ear canal and could cause an infection since it has been there for a while so your body reject it. However not all of it is rejected and could cause an ear infection.
There is also a link between small ears (specifically the outer, visible ear called the auricle) and underdeveloped kidneys. 'If you have small, very low-set ears, below the level of your eyes, it often indicates you have kidney problems. No one knows why, but you might lack one, have two fused together, or get kidney disease later in life,' says Mr Murty.
Taoism does, too. From a Taoist perspective big or small is neither good nor bad. Each feature’s size does, though, indicate gifts and challenges. Today I’ll tell you a little bit about what the size of your ears mean. But first, let me give you an understanding of what we mean by big, medium, or small facial features. If we want to get really technical, I could tell you that there is a standard that considers a large ear to be more than 65 mm [2.6″] long and 36 mm [1.42″] wide.
In this article. From dog bites to ear mites, there's a lot that can cause ear swelling in your dog. To keep your canine companion healthy, it helps to know the signs of a dog's ear problems, what to do when they happen, and how you can prevent them. 
Small ears: Introduction. Small ears: Small ears are ears that are unusually little. See detailed information below for a list of 137 causes of Small ears, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Small ears: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 
A preauricular pit is a tiny (1 to 2 millimeter) hole in the skin of the helical root.   Pits are present at birth; they form during early fetal development. In the 5th to 6th week post-conception, 6 tiny lumps of tissue begin merging, and by the 20th fetal week, these lumps have formed the external ear. On a whole, the animals that have small ears live in cold places. They have adapted to have small ears to reduce surface area. The smaller the ear, the less skin is exposed to … the cold, so the loose less body heat.
'Small ears often mean small ear canals [the tube running from the outer to the middle ear], which gives you a greater chance of developing eczema of the ears,' says George Murty, consultant ear, nose and throat surgeon at University Hospitals Leicester. 'If you have small, very low-set ears, below the level of your eyes, it often indicates you have kidney problems. No one knows why, but you might lack one, have two fused together, or get kidney disease later in life,' says Mr Murty.
She told me when she noted my small ears: She who has small ears lives long life.. Thus, apparently, in Thailand, small ears are good to have as they truly believe we, the small-ear ones are destined to live long lives. On a whole, the animals that have small ears live in cold places. They have adapted to have small ears to reduce surface area. The smaller the ear, the less skin is exposed to … the cold, so the loose less body heat.