The respiration rate is the number of breaths a person takes per minute. The rate is usually measured when a person is at rest and simply involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. Respiration rates may increase with fever, illness, and with other medical conditions. When checking respiration, it is important to also note whether a person has any difficulty breathing. Normal respiration rates for an adult person at rest range from 12 to 16 breath
Measurement [edit]. Human respiration rate is measured when a person is at rest and involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. An optical breath rate sensor can be used for monitoring patients during a magnetic resonance imaging scan. The typical respiratory rate for a healthy adult at rest is 12–20 breaths per minute. Average resting respiratory rates by age are: 1  birth to 6 weeks: 30–60 breaths per minute. 2  6 months: 25–40 breaths per minute.
For children from the age of one to five years old, normal respiration is 20 to 30 breaths per minute, while children who are from six to twelve years old should have a normal respiratory rate that ranges from 12 to 20 breaths per minute. From birth to six months of age, a baby's normal breathing rate is 30 to 60 breaths per minute; after the age of six months, breathing typically slows to 24 to 3
A respiratory rate, or breathing rate, is the number of breaths a person takes in one minute while at rest, and it can be measured by counting the number of times a person's chest rises and falls within one minute. From birth to six months of age, a baby's normal breathing rate is 30 to 60 breaths per minute; after the age of six months, breathing typically slows to 24 to 30 breaths per minute.
A normal respiratory rate is termed eupnea, an increased respiratory rate is termed tachypnea and a lower-than-normal respiratory rate is termed bradypnea. Breathing (which in organisms with lungs is called ventilation and includes inhalation and exhalation) is a part of respiration. The typical respiratory rate for a healthy adult at rest is 12–20 breaths per minute. Average resting respiratory rates by age are: 1  birth to 6 weeks: 30–60 breaths per minute. 2  6 months: 25–40 breaths per minute.
Respiratory Rate. Although a patient's respiratory rate is often recorded in his or her chart (most often as 20 breaths per minute), cultivate the discipline to obtain it yourself. Count the respirations for a minute and observe the pattern and degree of respiratory effort. 
Observe the rise and fall of the victim's chest and count the number of respirations out loud for one full minute. One respiration consists of one complete rise and fall of the chest, or the inhalation and exhalation of air. The normal respiratory rate for a healthy adult at rest is 12-to-20 breaths per minute. How to Measure and Record Respiratory Rate. Respiration is the process that occurs when oxygen is inhaled into the lungs, converted into energy via a chemical reaction and expelled as carbon dioxide.
Definition. Respiratory rate (also known as ventilation rate, respiration rate, breathing rate, pulmonary ventilation rate, breathing frequency, and respiratory frequency or Rf) = the number of breaths a person takes during one minute. It is usually measured at rest, while sitting. 
The respiration rate is the number of breaths a person takes per minute. The rate is usually measured when a person is at rest and simply involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. Respiration rates may increase with fever, illness, and with other medical conditions.