Found on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nkandla_(homestead). [genus] Nkandla is a genus of moths belonging to the subfamily Tortricinae of the family Tortricidae. ==Etymology== The genus name refers to Nkandla (Natal), the collecting locality of some of the specimens. ... 
Unfortunately for the president, a careful analysis of the circumstances of the expenditure – i.e. not one which is selective and tendentious – will likely show that the president is liable to refund the state a certain amount of the money spent on his Nkandla homestead. By DANIE VISSER. 
Image caption Jacob Zuma is campaigning for a second term as South Africa's president. President Jacob Zuma is required to account to parliament on Wednesday regarding South Africa's Nkandla scandal-the expensive state-funded upgrades to his private home. I have taken note of the criticism directed at me for the security upgrades to my family home in Nkandla. I believe much of that criticism is unjustified and I welcome the public protector's conclusion that I did not mislead parliament about the work undertaken.
- nkandla is a south african place name that may refer to: nkandla, kwazulu-natal, a town nkandla local muni****lity, the local authority that includes. - nkandla /ɪnˈkʌntlʌ/ is the private home of south african president jacob zuma, situated about 24 km (15 mi) south of the town of nkandla in kwazulu-natal. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word nkandla and, of course, nkandla synonyms and on the right images related to the word nkandla.
Definition of nkandla. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word nkandla. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word nkandla and, of course, nkandla synonyms and on the right images related to the word nkandla.
The controversy-plagued Nkandla compound. A media tour of Nkandla on Sunday gave South Africans the first ever opportunity, in five years of slow-dragging scandal, to put pictures to some of the state-funded infrastructure built inside President Jacob Zuma’s private rural compound. Although it took up well below 2% of the total amount spent on Nkandla, the state-built swimming pool has captured the public imagination more than any other feature, not least because of the state-created neologism used to defend it: firepool.
Meaning of nkandla. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word nkandla. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word nkandla and, of course, nkandla synonyms and on the right images related to the word nkandla.
Nkandla /ɪnˈkʌntlʌ/ is the private home of South African President Jacob Zuma, situated about 24 km (15 mi) south of the town of Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal (28°50’42.73″ S 31°05’59.47″ E). On 9 May 2009 he was inaugurated as the fourth post-apartheid President of South Africa. A month later between the 18th and 29 May a security assessment was carried out at his private residence in Nkandla.
Synonyms of nkandla. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word nkandla. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word nkandla and, of course, nkandla synonyms and on the right images related to the word nkandla.
From the start, the details of spending on Jacob Zuma's Nkandla security upgrade has gripped the nation. 