If you offer a reimbursement plan that differs from the standard rate, you may be required to include the reimbursements on employees’ payroll and income tax records. That’s why most employers simply choose to use the IRS’ standard rates for mileage reimbursement. If you don’t reimburse employees for mileage expenses, they may deduct from their gross income (1) the amount paid under their own mileage allowance or (2) the IRS’ standard rate multiplied by the number of miles driven for business purposes, whichever is less.
If you're going to pay mileage reimbursements, you are required to comply with IRS rules regarding allowable mileage and record keeping in order to write off the reimbursements as a business expense. Mileage reimbursements are not counted as employee income. Some states do mandate reimbursement of business expenses incurred by employees. For example, California law states that employers must pay mileage reimbursement. Employers who pay mileage reimbursements usually set the amount at or slightly below the IRS standard rate for business use of personal vehicles. The standard rate is updated periodically to reflect average vehicle operating costs.
Qualifications. To use the standard mileage rate for a vehicle you own, do so in the first year after you put the car in service for your business. In future years, you can choose either mileage or actual car expenses to calculate your transportation deductions. If you do not use the standard mileage rate in the first year, you must always use actual car expenses to calculate your deductions.
Standard Mileage Rates. The following table summarizes the optional standard mileage rates for employees, self-employed individuals, or other taxpayers to use in computing the deductible costs of operating an automobile for business, charitable, medical, or moving expense purposes. 
Mileage Reimbursement. Companies are willing to reimburse mileage to compensate employees so as to better retain and recruit people they need, according to HR Hero. Typically, company requirements for mileage reimbursement are set based on the annual IRS standard rate for business travel. For example, in 2013, a business could pay up to 56.5 cents per mile and write it off as a business expense. This is much simpler than keeping detailed records of actual operating expenses. Companies can pay a mileage reimbursement that counts as a business expense and that is tax-free for employees as well. However, if they don't set requirements that follow Internal Revenue Service rules, both the company and the employees may lose their tax advantages.
As of July 1, 2008, that rate is 58.5 cents per mile traveled for business purposes, 27 cents per mile for medical and moving travel, and 14 cents per mile for travel for charitable purposes. You can use the standard mileage rate as a benchmark to reimburse employees for business travel. For tax purposes, it’s much less complicated to go by the standard rates than to require employees to keep track of their actual vehicle expenses. If you don’t reimburse employees for mileage expenses, they may deduct from their gross income (1) the amount paid under their own mileage allowance or (2) the IRS’ standard rate multiplied by the number of miles driven for business purposes, whichever is less.
Aidon/Photodisc/Getty Images. Learning the reporting requirements for mileage reimbursement will help you stay in compliance with IRS rules concerning business deductions. You can use the standard mileage rate for passenger vehicles, vans, sports utility vehicles, pickups or panel trucks. In future years, you can choose either mileage or actual car expenses to calculate your transportation deductions. If you do not use the standard mileage rate in the first year, you must always use actual car expenses to calculate your
The IRS mileage rate is 50.5 cents per mile, or $50.5. But California requires reimbursement of expenses-not reimbursement of gas! Once the employee figures in oil, wear and tear, insurance, etc., their actual expenses may be significantly higher. Typically, employers conveniently use the IRS rate. But if the IRS rate does not keep up with rising gas prices, especially in high cost areas like California, then an employer is required to provide an auto mileage reimbursement at a rate higher than
Mileage reimbursement. The standard mileage reimbursement rate, effective January 1, 2015, is 57.5 cents per mile for all business miles driven. The standard mileage reimbursement rate is 23 cents per mile for medical or moving purposes and 14 cents per mile for service of charitable organizations. Employers that use the IRS rate or a lower rate may deduct the reimbursement as a business expense, and the payment need not be included in the employee's income