Most ozone is found in a layer more than 10 kilometers (6 miles) above the Earth. This stratospheric ozone layer prevents the Sun's harmful, high-energy radiation from reaching Earth's surface. Ozone in the stratosphere is constantly being created and destroyed by the action of light and photochemistry. The stratospheric ozone layer has become substantially depleted throughout much of the globe since the 1980s because of enhanced human production and use of ozone-depleting chemicals, such as chlorofluorocarbons, halons, and others, during the 20th century.
Stratospheric ozone filters out most of the sun's potentially harmful shortwave ultraviolet (UV) radiation. If this ozone becomes depleted, then more UV rays will reach the earth. Exposure to higher amounts of UV radiation could have serious impacts on human beings, animals and plants, such as the following: 1  Harm to human health: 2  More skin cancers, sunburns and premature aging of the skin. 
Step 3. Ways to slow down the. process of destroying. the ozone layer. Ozone Depletion. Hole in Ozone. one way that we can help stop ozone. depletion is to stop destroying all of. natures trees that help get rid of CO2. that slowly eat away at the Ozone. 
“Good” ozone is in the earth’s upper atmosphere, 10 to 30 miles above the surface. Life couldn't exist without this protective ozone, which is also called the ozone layer.. The sun gives off light, heat, and other types of radiation. Too much UV (ultraviolet) radiation can cause skin cancer, cataracts, and harm plants and animals. 
STRATOSPHERIC OZONE DEPLETION Ozone depletion is a global problem that is caused by human activities. This newmodule in the Global Change Instruction Program describes the chemistry of ozone,how ozone destruction is attributed to human activity, and what society is doing toavert further damage to the ozone layer. 
Usage of eco-friendly and natural cleaning products for household chores is a great way to prevent ozone depletion. This is because many of these cleaning agents contain toxic chemicals that interfere with the ozone layer. These harmful substances strike the ozone and splits it apart. The ozone depletion has led to a worldwide concern as the thinning protective coat over Earth is letting harmful ultraviolet light pass which has led to many health hazards like skin cancer, damages to plants and plankton as well as cataracts. Therefore many governments have banned products that produce these ODS
Help Prevent Further Ozone Depletion. The nations of the world have taken a crucial step in joining together to halt the production and use of ozone-destroying chemicals. But the work can't stop there. Here's what you can do: What You Can Do about
1. Limit private vehicle driving. A very easy way to control ozone depletion would be to limit or reduce the amount of driving as vehicular emissions eventually result in smog which is a culprit in the deterioration of the ozone layer. These harmful substances strike the ozone and splits it apart. The ozone depletion has led to a worldwide concern as the thinning protective coat over Earth is letting harmful ultraviolet light pass which has led to many health hazards like skin cancer, damages to plants and plankton as well as cataracts. Therefore many governments have banned products that produce these ODS
The depletion of ozone in the ozone layer results in increased amounts of this damaging radiation reaching Earth's surface and an increased occurrence of these problems in humans and other living beings. The stratospheric ozone layer has become substantially depleted throughout much of the globe since the 1980s because of enhanced human production and use of ozone-depleting chemicals, such as chlorofluorocarbons, halons, and others, during the 20th century.