1 Edit and publish video from VIRB and VIRB Elite action cameras. 2  Display speed, elevation, G-force, heart rate and more on your video to reveal the true effort and thrill of each moment. 3  Trim, reorder and stitch clips together. 4  Add a music track and adjust the speed and volume of individual clips. View Your Footage. With VIRB Edit, importing your footage from VIRB ™ or VIRB Elite is as easy as connecting your device to your computer. Your footage will be organized into small, easy-to-manage clips and displayed in the order they were shot, making it simple to see them at a glance and select them for editing
Notes: 1  VIRB Edit combines your video footage with GPS and other data from either the VIRB Elite Action Camera or a compatible Garmin device. 2  The result is a rich video experience that you can easily share and post online. 1 NOTE: If a compatible version of Microsoft .NET Framework is not installed, it will be installed during the VIRB Edit software installation. 2  You can edit videos using computers that do not meet these requirements by performing the following actions. 3  Avoid drawing gauges and text overlays. 4  Avoid using transitions.
VIRB Edit is free desktop editing software that you can download to your computer for intuitive, robust video editing that takes advantage of Garmin inter-compatibility. Don’t lose a moment of video just to capture a photograph. VIRB lets you take still photos at the same time you are recording video with just a touch of the button on either your remote Garmin device or on the camera itself.
1 Edit and publish video from VIRB and VIRB Elite action cameras. 2  Display speed, elevation heart rate and more on your video to reveal the true effort and thrill of each moment. 3  Trim, reorder and stitch clips together. 4  Adjust the volume and speed of individual clips. If you collect GPS data with VIRB Elite or a compatible Garmin device, VIRB Edit can use that data to create an overlay that indicates speed and elevation in sync with your video. You can also add metrics, such as heart rate and cadence, from compatible devices by connecting to your VIRB via ANT+ ™ wireless technology.
View Your Footage. With VIRB Edit, importing your footage from VIRB or VIRB Elite is as easy as connecting your device to your computer. Your footage will be organized into small, easy-to-manage clips and displayed in the order they were shot, making it simple to see them at a glance and select them for editing. If you collect GPS data with VIRB Elite or a compatible Garmin device, VIRB Edit can use that data to create an overlay that indicates speed and elevation in sync with your video. You can also add metrics, such as heart rate and cadence, from compatible devices by connecting to your VIRB via ANT+ ™ wireless technology.
without data, it's just video. VIRB action cameras capture all the action in brilliant HD. In addition, they record data from sensors within the camera for speed, altitude, G-force, GPS position and more. They also wirelessly connect to compatible devices and sensors so you can capture even more data. 
VIRB® Edit. The VIRB Edit desktop app combines video footage from your VIRB action camera with GPS and other data from a compatible Garmin device. The result is a rich video experience that you can easily share and post online. View Your Footage. With VIRB Edit, importing your footage from VIRB ™ or VIRB Elite is as easy as connecting your device to your computer. Your footage will be organized into small, easy-to-manage clips and displayed in the order they were shot, making it simple to see them at a glance and select them for editing
1 Download the Garmin VIRB Edit update file into a directory on your hard drive. ( 2 i.e., c:\downloads). 3  Change to the directory in which you downloaded the files, (i.e., c:\downloads), and run the executable file (.exe). 4  Follow the onscreen instructions to complete the update of your VIRB Edit installation. 1 NOTE: If a compatible version of Microsoft .NET Framework is not installed, it will be installed during the VIRB Edit software installation. 2  You can edit videos using computers that do not meet these requirements by performing the following actions. 3  Avoid drawing gauges and text overlays. 4  Avoid using transitions.