Ovaries produce and release two groups of sex hormones—progesterone and estrogen. There are actually three major estrogens, known as estradiol, estrone, and estriol. These substances work together to promote the healthy development of female sex characteristics during puberty and to ensure fertility. 
The three major naturally occurring estrogens in women are estrone (E1), estradiol (E2), and estriol (E3). Estradiol is the predominant estrogen during reproductive years both in terms of absolute serum levels as well as in terms of estrogenic activity. Estrogens, in females, are produced primarily by the ovaries, and during pregnancy, the placenta. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) stimulates the ovarian production of estrogens by the granulosa cells of the ovarian follicles and corpora lutea.
The term estrogen actually describes several different related hormones. These estrogens are estrone (predominant form during menopause), estriol (primary estrogen during pregnancy), and estradiol (which is the most common form of estrogen in non-pregnant women between puberty and menopause). Estrogens can be produced by fat tissue, the liver, the adrenal glands and the ovaries. The ovaries are the primary source of estrogens in premenopausal women, except for women who are pregnant.
Estrogen's function. In women, estrogen is produced mainly in the ovaries, but it is also produced by fat cells and the adrenal gland. Estrogen is involved in the onset of puberty, playing a role in the development of so-called secondary sex characteristics, such as breasts, and pubic and armpit hair. Estrogens are hormones that are important for sexual and reproductive development, mainly in women. They are also referred to as female sex hormones. The term estrogen refers to all of the chemically similar hormones in this group, which are estrone, estradiol (primary in women of reproductive age) and estriol.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Estrogen is produced in the ovaries, primarily the theca (wall) of developing follicles in the ovary, though also to a lesser extent the corpus luteum (remaining out 'shell' which previously contained an egg) and, during certain stages of pregnancy, the placenta. Estrogens are primarily produced by (and released from) the follicles in the ovaries (the corpus luterum) and the placenta (the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall).
The pituitary gland secretes a hormone which induces the production of estrogen in the ovaries. Estrogens are primarily produced by (and released from) the follicles in the ovaries (the corpus luterum) and the placenta (the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall). The production of the estrogen in the ovaries is stimulated by the lutenizing hormone
They are: estradiol, estrone, and estriol. Estradiol Estradiol is produced by the ovaries. It is the primary circulating estrogen before menopause. It is also the strongest estrogen and is responsible to the monthly ovulation and normal menstrual cycles. Estrone Estrone is produced by the fatty tissues. A smaller additional quantity of estrogen is produced by the adrenal glands and peripheral tissues such as fat, liver, and kidneys by converting androgens to estrogens. Estrogen hormones are also formed in the placenta during pregnancy. At menopause the ovaries stop producing estrogen.
Female hormones, estrogens, are also present in both sexes, but in larger amounts for women. Estrogens are the sex hormones produced primarily by a female's ovaries that stimulate the growth of a girl's sex organs, as well as her breasts and pubic hair, known as secondary sex characteristics.
Estrogen and Progesterone. Estrogen is produced by the ovarian follicle (ovary), and estrogen levels rise through the early part of the menstrual cycle. Progesterone begins to be produced upon ovulation, and levels elevate through the remainder of the cycle until dropping just prior to the menstrual flow.