Arwen is the correct spelling, and Rivendell was the main elf city ruled by Elrond. They also visited a second elf city in the forest called Lothlorien. It was the home of Galadriel (played by Cate Blanchett in the movies). ConcernedCitizen · 9 years ago. The elven city where Arwen lives is called Rivendell, but there is also the forest city/community of elves in Lothlorien. There are other ancient elven cities mentioned in the books, but these are the two that have parts in the storyline. - Tig. Tigger
Report Abuse. Legolas was the son of Thranduil, King of the Woodland Realm of Northern Mirkwood, who appears as the Elvenking in The Hobbit. Thranduil ruled over the Silvan Elves of the wood. 
Legolas was the son of Thranduil, King of the Woodland Realm of Northern Mirkwood, who appears as the Elvenking in The Hobbit. Thranduil ruled over the Silvan Elves or Wood-elves of Mirkwood. Although he lived among the Silvan Elves, Legolas was not one himself. His father Thranduil had originally come from Lindon; he and his son were actually Sindar, or Grey Elves, called in the singular Sinda;  Sindarin  was their language. Thranduil himself was the son of Oropher. Legolas's mother is never mentioned; the Elves of Mirkwood have no Queen at the time of The Hobbit.
As the son of the Elvenking Thranduil, Legolas was a prince of the Woodland Realm. Not much is known about most of his life before or during the Third Age. During the War of the Ring, the Elves of Mirkwood were keeping Gollum captive, however he soon managed to escape. Etymology. The name Legolas is a Silvan dialect form of pure Sindarin Laegolas, which means Greenleaf. At one point he is called Legolas Greenleaf by Gandalf, coupling his name and its translation like an epithet.
Legolas (pronounced [ˈlɛɡɔlas]) is a character in J. R. R. Tolkien 's legendarium. He is a Sindarin Elf of the Woodland Realm and one of nine members of the Fellowship of the Ring. His father Thranduil had originally come from Lindon; he and his son were actually Sindar, or Grey Elves, called in the singular Sinda;  Sindarin  was their language. Thranduil himself was the son of Oropher. Legolas's mother is never mentioned; the Elves of Mirkwood have no Queen at the time of The Hobbit.
Although he lived among them and in their culture, Legolas was not fully of the Silvan Elves. As a son of the Elven-king Thranduil, who had originally come from Doriath, Legolas was at least part Sindarin Elf, as his mother's identity is completely unknown. 1 In Peter Jackson's movie The Lord of the Rings The Two Towers (2002) video game and the movie based The Lord of the Rings The Return of the King (2003) video game and The Lord of the Rings The Third Age (2004) Legolas is voiced by Orlando Bloom.
The elven city is Rivendell. However, there was also the forest of Lothlorien which is where Galadriel and the woodland elves lived. Aragorn's girlfriend's name is Arwen Undomiel, she is Elrond's daughter who is master of Rivendell. However, the movie also plays up a little romance between Eowyn and Aragorn. The elven city where Arwen lives is called Rivendell, but there is also the forest city/community of elves in Lothlorien. There are other ancient elven cities mentioned in the books, but these are the two that have parts in the storyline. - Tig. Tigger · 9 years ago.
The name Legolas Greenleaf first appeared in the book  The Fall of Gondolin , one of the  Lost Tales , circa 1917. The character, who guides some survivors of the sack of the city to safety, is mentioned only once and is likely unrelated to the character discussed above. His father Thranduil had originally come from Lindon; he and his son were actually Sindar, or Grey Elves, called in the singular Sinda;  Sindarin  was their language. Thranduil himself was the son of Oropher. Legolas's mother is never mentioned; the Elves of Mirkwood have no Queen at the time of The Hobbit.
Legolas was an Elf who was part of the Fellowship of the Ring in the Third Age. He is the son of the Elf-king Thranduil of Mirkwood, a Prince of the Woodland Realm (Mirkwood) , a messenger, and a master bowman. With his keen eyesight, sensitive hearing, and excellent bowmanship, Legolas is a valuable resource to the other eight of the Fellowship. His age was never stated by Tolkien. 1 In Peter Jackson's movie The Lord of the Rings The Two Towers (2002) video game and the movie based The Lord of the Rings The Return of the King (2003) video game and The Lord of the Rings The Third Age (2004) Legolas is voiced by Orlando Bloom.
Literature. Legolas was the son of Thranduil, King of the Woodland Realm of Northern Mirkwood, who appears as the Elvenking in The Hobbit. Thranduil ruled over the Silvan Elves or Wood-elves of Mirkwood. Although he lived among the Silvan Elves, Legolas was strictly not one himself. His father Thranduil had originally come from Lindon; he and his son were actually Sindar, or Grey Elves, called in the singular Sinda :  Sindarin  was their language. The name Legolas Greenleaf first appeared in The Fall of Gondolin, one of the  Lost Tales , circa 1917. The character, who guides some survivors of the sack of the city to safety, is mentioned only once and is unrelated to the character discussed above.