1 United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 2  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 3  Children 5 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone must use our unaccompanied minor service and pay the applicable service charge. Children 5 to 11 years of age who are not accompanied on an aircraft by a parent, legal guardian or someone who is at least 18 years of age are considered unaccompanied minors and are subject to specific restrictions.
Unaccompanied Minors. An unaccompanied minor is a child between the ages of five and under 14 years traveling without an adult. There is an $85 fee each way, for each unaccompanied minor traveling on JetBlue. For drop off and pick up information, click here. Unaccompanied Minors. An unaccompanied minor is a child between the ages of five and under 14 years traveling alone. There is an $85 fee each way, for each unaccompanied minor traveling on JetBlue. For drop off and pick up information, click here.
Minors are not allow to travel on connecting flights. Children 15 to 17 are not required to use the Unaccompanied Minor service (thereby no fee is applied). Fee: The Unaccompanied Minor service fee is $100 one way and includes a beverage and a snack. When children 5 to 14 fly unaccompanied, they are required to purchase the Unaccompanied Minor service. Children 15 to 17 are not required to use this service (thereby no fee is applied), but it can be requested in which case a fee will be applied.
An unaccompanied minor is a child between the ages of five and under 14 years traveling without an adult. There is an $85 fee each way, for each unaccompanied minor traveling on JetBlue. Unaccompanied Minors. An unaccompanied minor is a child between the ages of five and under 14 years traveling alone. There is an $85 fee each way, for each unaccompanied minor traveling on JetBlue. For drop off and pick up information, click here.
Restrictions. JetBlue won’t allow children under the age of 5 to travel unaccompanied. In addition, the company won’t permit unaccompanied minors onto any flight that is not nonstop, meaning they can’t travel on connecting flights, flights that make a stop en route or journeys that involve a flight with another airline.
Booking. On JetBlue, children aged 5 through 13 are considered unaccompanied minors. Passengers aged 14 and over are not unaccompanied minors, but are entitled to assistance from JetBlue staff if needed. Those under age 5 must be accompanied by a passenger aged 14 or older. When booking your child’s ticket, indicate that he or she is an unaccompanied minor. Jet Blue charges $75 each way for children traveling unaccompanied. You are required to provide the full legal names, addresses and phone numbers of those who are responsible for dropping off and picking up the child at each airport.
Fee: The Unaccompanied Minor service fee per child is $150 each way, in addition to airfare, snacks and meals. Note: The airline does not accept cash for snack or beverage purchase. When children 5 to 14 fly unaccompanied, they are required to purchase the Unaccompanied Minor service. Children 15 to 17 are not required to use this service (thereby no fee is applied), but it can be requested in which case a fee will be applied.