1. the uneven manner of walking that results from an injured leg. Familiarity information: LIMP used as a noun is very rare. • LIMP (adjective). The adjective LIMP has 2 senses: 1. lacking in strength or firmness or resilience. 2. not firm. Familiarity information: LIMP used as an adjective is rare. • LIMP (verb). The verb LIMP has 2 senses: 1. walk impeded by some physical limitation or injury. 2. proceed slowly or with difficulty. Familiarity information: LIMP used as a verb is rare.
'Limp Mode' or 'Fail Code' Conditions. Nearly every system in your automobile is controlled by onboard computers these days, especially your engine and transmission functions.'Fail Code' conditions, or 'Limp Mode', happens when the vehicle computer recognizes a problem in it's logic. 
Formed in 1994, Limp Bizkit became popular playing in the Jacksonville, Florida underground music scene in the late 1990s, and signed with Flip Records, a subsidiary of Interscope, which released their debut album, Three Dollar Bill, Y'all$ (1997). Durst named the band Limp Bizkit, because he wanted a name that would repel listeners. According to Durst, The name is there to turn people's heads away. A lot of people pick up the disc and go, 'Limp Bizkit. Limp Bizkit is an American nu metal band from Jacksonville, Florida, formed in 1994. Their lineup consists of Fred Durst (lead vocals), Sam Rivers (bass guitar, backing vocals), John Otto (drums, percussions), and Wes Borland (guitars, backing vocals).
adjective. verb. This mans injury causes him to limp. This mans injury causes him to limp. The definition of limp is something that has lost stiffness or that is without energy and strength. 1  A person who lets all his muscles go slack is an example of a person who is limp. 
A limp is a type of asymmetric abnormality of the gait. When due to pain it is referred to as an antalgic gait, in which the foot is in contact with the ground for a shorter duration than usual; in severe cases there may be a refusal to walk. A limp is the presenting problem in about 4% of children who visit hospital emergency departments.
A limp is a type of asymmetric abnormality of the gait. Limping may be caused by pain, weakness, neuromuscular imbalance, or a skeletal deformity. A limp is the presenting problem in about 4% of children who visit hospital emergency departments.
The most common underlying cause of a painful limp is physical trauma; however, in the absence of trauma, other serious causes, such as septic arthritis or slipped capital femoral epiphysis, may be present. A limp is the presenting problem in about 4% of children who visit hospital emergency departments.
intr.v. limped, limp·ing, limps. 1. To walk lamely, especially with irregularity, as if favoring one leg. 2. To move or proceed haltingly or unsteadily: The project limped along with half its previous funding. n. An irregular, jerky, or awkward gait. adj. limp·er, limp·est. 1. Lacking or having lost rigidity, as of structure or substance: limp, wet hair; an arm hanging limp over the side of the bed. 2. Lacking strength, vigor, or effectiveness; weak: limp political opposition. [Probably from obsolete