A) DNA passed from the heat-killed strain to the living strain. B) Protein passed from the heat-killed strain to the living strain. C) The phosphorescence in the living strain is especially bright. D) Descendants of the living cells are also phosphorescent. E) Both DNA and protein passed from the heat-killed strain to the living strain. D) Descendants of the living cells are also phosphorescent. A) the creation of a strand of DNA from an RNA molecule. B) the creation of a strand of RNA from a DNA molecule. C) the infection of cells by a phage DNA molecule. D) the type of semiconservative replication shown by DNA. E) assimilation of external DNA into a cell
A. Both DNA and protein passed from the heat-killed strain to the living strain. B. DNA passed from the heat-killed strain to the living strain. C. The phosphorescence in the living strain is especially bright. D. Protein passed from the heat-killed strain to the living strain. E. Descendants of the living cells are also phosphorescent. E. Descendants of the living cells are also phosphorescent
Cancer, by definition, is a disease of the genes. A gene is a small part of DNA, which is the master molecule of the cell. Genes make proteins, which are the ultimate workhorses of the cells. It is these proteins that allow our bodies to carry out all the many processes that permit us to breathe, think, move, etc. 
Most of a cell's DNA is not translated. Totipotent cells are cells that can mature into any body cell. During development, totipotent cells translate only part of their DNA, resulting in cell specialisation. 
A) the creation of a strand of DNA from an RNA molecule B) the creation of a strand of RNA from a DNA molecule C) The infection of cells by a phage DNA molecule D) the type of semiconservative replication shown by DNA E) assimilation of external DNA into a cell. Follow. 2 answers 2. B) the creation of a strand of RNA from a DNA molecule. C) The infection of cells by a phage DNA molecule. D) the type of semiconservative replication shown by DNA. E) assimilation of external DNA into a cell. Add your answer.
A.) The type of semiconservative replication shown by DNA B.) assimilation of external DNA into the cell C.) the infection of cells by a phage DNA molecule D.) the creation of a strand of RNA from a DNA molecule. Follow. Answers. Best Answer: B.) assimilation of external DNA into the cell Transformation is the process by which bacteria pick up DNA from their extracellular environment. The DNA may come from a variety of sources, but most likely it is the remnants of DNA from dead bacterial cells
Mitochondria (illustration). Mitochondria are complex organelles that convert energy from food into a form that the cell can use. They have their own genetic material, separate from the DNA in the nucleus, and can make copies of themselves. DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA.