The monomers of DNA are deoxyribonucleotides, because their sugar is deoxyribose. The nucleotides in a nucleic acid are not all identical. There are four kinds in each nucleic acid, differing only in their bases. The bases in the nucleotides of RNA are cytosine, uracil, adenine, and guanine. DNA and RNA are polymers consisting of monomres called nucleotides, which are composed of a sugar (deoxyribose for DNA and ribose for RNA), a phosphate group, and a nitrogeno … us base (Adenine, Thymine, Cytosine, and Guanine for DNA, and Adenine, Uracil, Cytosine and Guanine for RNA).
Nucleic acids (both RNA and DNA) are polymers made up of monomers called mononucleotide units (MNU in the diagram). These mononucleotide units are joined together by intermolecular dehydration reactions that form phosphate ester bonds. 
A monomer of a nucleic acid is called a nucleotide which consists of a sugar, phosphate group and nitrogen containing base. many nucleotides put together forms a polymer nucleotides which is call nucleic acids. Thus the polymer of DNA and/or RNA is a nucleic acid. I know that DNA and RNA are polymers made of nucleotides. What I need to know is what polymer DNA or RNA make up. Thanks. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
Confidence votes 7.7K. Nucleotides. Both DNA and RNA are nucleic acids, and are polymers of nucleotides. A nucleotide has three components: a pentose (five-carbon sugar), and attached to different parts of it a phosphate group and a nitrogenous base (either a purine or a pyrimidine). DNA and RNA are polymers consisting of monomres called nucleotides, which are composed of a sugar (deoxyribose for DNA and ribose for RNA), a phosphate group, and a nitrogeno … us base (Adenine, Thymine, Cytosine, and Guanine for DNA, and Adenine, Uracil, Cytosine and Guanine for RNA).
Nucleic acids Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleic acids found in the nuclei of living cells. They are the vehicles of genetic inheritance. Nucleic acids are condensation polymers of nucleotides.
The polymerization of nucleotides. The nucleic acids, both DNA and RNA, consist of polymers of nucleotides. The nucleotides are linked covalently between the 3' carbon atom of the pentose and the phosphate group attached to the 5' carbon of the adjacent pentose. Deoxyribose-containing nucleotides, the deoxyribonucleotides, are the monomers of deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA) . Ribose-containing nucleotides, the ribonucleotides, are the monomers of ribonucleic acids (RNA) .
DNA and RNA are polymers consisting of monomres called nucleotides, which are composed of a sugar (deoxyribose for DNA and ribose for RNA), a phosphate group, and a nitrogeno … us base (Adenine, Thymine, Cytosine, and Guanine for DNA, and Adenine, Uracil, Cytosine and Guanine for RNA). A single nucleotide contains a phosphate group, deoxyribose or ribose (depending on the nucleic acid) and a nitrogen base, which can be adenine, guanine, cytosine … , thymine, and uracil. These monomers combine to form polymers known as DNA or RNA.
The monomers of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) are nucleotides. Each nucleotide has a phosphate, a sugar and a nitrogenous base. A single nucleotide contains a phosphate group, deoxyribose or ribose (depending on the nucleic acid) and a nitrogen base, which can be adenine, guanine, cytosine … , thymine, and uracil. These monomers combine to form polymers known as DNA or RNA.
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides. Nucleic acids are among the most important biological macromolecules (others being amino acids/proteins, sugars/carbohydrates, and lipids/fats).