Ends: A typical skeletal muscle consists of two ends. These are; 1  Origin is one end of the muscle which remains fixed during its contraction. 2  Insertion is the other end which moves during its contraction. 3  In the limb muscles, the origin is usually proximal to insertion. Parts: A typical skeletal muscle consists of two parts. These are; 1  Fleshy part is contractile, and is called the ‘belly’. 2  Fibrous part is non-contractile and inelastic. 3  When cord-like or rope-like, it is called tendon; when flattened, it is called aponeurosis.
It is sometimes called a three-headed muscle (Latin literally three-headed, tri-three, and ceps, from kaput-head), because there are three bundles of muscles, each of different origins, joining together at the elbow. In the horse, 84%, 15%, and 3% of the total triceps muscle weight correspond to the long, lateral and medial heads, respectively. Many mammals, such as dogs, cattle, and pigs, have a fourth head, the accessory head. It lies between the lateral and medial heads.
Lesson Summary. In summary, skeletal muscles are attached to bones on each end by tendons. The origin is the fixed attachment, while the insertion moves with contraction. The action, or particular movement of a muscle, can be described relative to the joint or the body part moved. Groups of muscles are involved in most movements and names are used to describe the role of each muscle involved. 
The seven general types of skeletal muscle. The origin of a muscle is the bone, typically proximal, which has greater mass and is more stable during a contraction than a muscle's insertion. For example, with the latissimus dorsi muscle, the origin site is the torso, and the insertion is the arm. Normally the distal (arm) moves due to having less mass. 
All muscles have basically the same structure. Each muscle has an attachment at both ends, called the origin and insertion, and a fleshy contractile part, called the muscle belly. The point of origin is the point of attachment where the muscle is anchored to the bone. The point of origin is the point of attachment to the bone to which the muscle is anchored. The point of insertion is the point of attachment to the bone the muscle moves. Generally, the muscles are attached by tough fibrous structures called tendons.
The Triceps Brachii muscles are located on the back of the humerus and more commonly referred to as the triceps. They derive their name from a Latin phrase meaning “three headed arm muscle”, due to the fact that the triceps muscles have three muscle heads and therefore have three separate origin attachment points. These three heads are called the Lateral, Medial and Long and they connect the Humerus, Scapula to the Ulna. They are the largest muscles in the upper arms. As with the Bicep muscle which has two heads and therefore two origin points, the Triceps muscles which has three heads has three different origin points. These origin attachment points are as follows; 1.
A muscle that has more than one attachment at locations that do not move, called origins, and only one attachment at the location that does move, called the insertion, is said to have more than one head. The term biceps means two heads; the term triceps means three heads; and the term quadriceps means four heads. Typically, one attachment remains stationary and is called the origin and the other attachment moves and is called the insertion. Almost all muscles cross at least one joint (moveable connection between two bones) and cause an action across that joint.
All muscles exert their force by pulling between at least two points of attachment. The movement that results from contraction is called the action of the muscle. Typically, one attachment remains stationary and is called the origin and the other attachment moves and is called the insertion. Almost all muscles cross at least one joint (moveable connection between two bones) and cause an action across that joint.
The triceps brachii muscle (Latin for three-headed muscle of the arm) is the large muscle on the back of the upper limb of many vertebrates. It is the muscle principally responsible for extension of the elbow joint (straightening of the arm). In the horse, 84%, 15%, and 3% of the total triceps muscle weight correspond to the long, lateral and medial heads, respectively. Many mammals, such as dogs, cattle, and pigs, have a fourth head, the accessory head. It lies between the lateral and medial heads.