1 Brandon Routh played Superman in the 2006 movie Superman Returns. 2  Stephen Bender starred in the same movie as the young Clark Kent. 3  Tom Welling played a teenaged Clark Kent/ Superman in the long running television series Smallville which ran from 2001 to 2011. List Of Actors That Have Played Superman. 22 Oct, 2012 list 0. Superman is a well-know fictional character that originated from comic books, but is now also seen in movies, television shows and video games. The character was created by American writer Jerry Siegel and Canadian-born American artist Joe Shuster in 1932.
He was the voice of Superman on the original 1940’s radio program. He was also the voice of Superman in the first animated TV series from 1941 to 1943. Other actors who played the voice of superman include: 1  Mark Harmon – The voice of Superman of in Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths. 2  Tim Daly – The voice of Superman/Clark Kent in Superman: the Animated Series. 3  George Newbern – The voices of Superman from the Justice League and Justice League Unlimited animated series. List Of Actors That Have Played Superman. 22 Oct, 2012 list 0. Superman is a well-know fictional character that originated from comic books, but is now also seen in movies, television shows and video games. The character was created by American writer Jerry Siegel and Canadian-born American artist Joe Shuster in 1932.
Tom Welling is probably best known for playing Clark Kent on the hit television series Smallville (2001). He was born in Putnam Valley, New York, to Barbara and Thomas Welling, who is a retired executive for General Motors. He has a younger brother, Mark Welling, who is also an actor, and two older sisters. 
The curse is often invoked whenever misfortune is experienced by actors and other personnel who work on Superman adaptations, so much so that some talent agents cite the curse as the reason for the difficulty in casting actors in the role in live-action feature films. Bud Collyer voiced the first Superman cartoon from 1941-43. He went on to enjoy a career in TV, hosting the game show To Tell the Truth. He returned to Superman by voicing The New Adventures of Superman for CBS in 1966.
After George Reeves met his untimely demise, actor Lee Quigley, who had played Superman as a baby, died from abusing solvents at the tender age of 14. Actor Bud Collyer made out just a little better; he gave voice to the Man of Steel in two different cartoons, one created in the 1940s and the second in the 1960s. 
Other Actors Who Played Superman. Other actors have played the role -- Ray Middleton, Bud Collyer, Lee Quigley, Kirk Alyn, Brandon Routh and Bob Holliday, and Tom Welling, in Smallville -- though none gained the fame nor consistency in the role of the previous three. The Original Superman. George Reeves was perhaps the first enduring figure of Superman on the big screen. Others had played the role, but after his 1951 debut in Superman and the Mole Men, Reeves went on to an extended run with Superman on the small screen in the TV series The Adventures of Superman.
George Reeves played Superman in the 1951 film Superman and the Mole Men and the ensuing television series Adventures of Superman. Like Alyn and Reeve, he was too closely associated with the role to find further work. Bud Collyer voiced the first Superman cartoon from 1941-43. He went on to enjoy a career in TV, hosting the game show To Tell the Truth. He returned to Superman by voicing The New Adventures of Superman for CBS in 1966.
Brandon Routh. Actor Brandon Routh, who played Superman in the 2006 film Superman Returns, dismisses the notion of the curse, stating that what occurs to one person or set of people will not necessarily occur to everyone, and that he does not live his life in fear. Bud Collyer voiced the first Superman cartoon from 1941-43. He went on to enjoy a career in TV, hosting the game show To Tell the Truth. He returned to Superman by voicing The New Adventures of Superman for CBS in 1966.