Electrosurgery is the application of a high-frequency electric current to biological tissue as a means to cut, coagulate, desiccate, or fulgurate tissue. (These terms are used in specific ways for this methodology—see below). Its benefits include the ability to make precise cuts with limited blood loss. Electrosurgery is performed using an electrosurgical generator (also referred to as power supply or waveform generator) and a handpiece including one or several electrodes, sometimes referred to as an RF Knife.
It is important to use a generator that can alternately provide both bipolar power for cautery with minimal collateral injury with the use of a monopolar power for cutting, cutting/cautery, and cautery. This combined used of types of energy increases the efficiency of doing general surgery. Radiofrequency. An energy source (Ellman International) using high-frequency electrical current that can be used as either bipolar or monopolar mode (4.0 mHz). The zone of injury is comparable or less than a carbon dioxide laser when both are used in appropriate fashion for tradition
Monopolar Electrosurgery. Monopolar electrosurgery can be used for several modalities including cut, blend, desiccation, and fulguration. Using a pencil instrument, the active electrode is placed in the entry site and can be used to cut tissue and coagulate bleeding.
The main forms of cauterization used today in the first world are electrocautery and chemical cautery —both are, for example, prevalent in the removal of unsightly warts. Cautery can also mean the branding of a human, either recreational or forced. Cautery is described in the Hippocratic Corpus. The cautery was employed for almost every possible purpose in ancient times: as a counter-irritant, as a haemostatic, as a bloodless knife, as a means of destroying tumours, etc. Later, special medical instruments called cauters were used to cauterize arteries.
monopolar electrocautery, an electrocautery in which current is applied through a handheld active electrode and travels back to the generator through an inactive electrode attached to the patient (the grounding pad), so that the patient is part of the electrical circuit. Also called unipolar electrocautery. 1  Facebook.
Electrocautery, also known as thermal cautery, refers to a process in which a direct or alternating current is passed through a resistant metal wire electrode, generating heat. In electrocautery, the current does not pass through the patient; thus, the procedure can be safely used in patients with implanted electrical devices such as cardiac pacemakers, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators, and deep-brain stimulators.
The return electrode pad is attached to the patient, so the electrical current flows from the generator to the electrode through the target tissue, to the patient return pad and back to the generator. Monopolar electrosurgery is the most commonly used because of its versatility and effectiveness. Monopolar electrosurgery can be used for several modalities including cut, blend, desiccation, and fulguration. Using a pencil instrument, the active electrode is placed in the entry site and can be used to cut tissue and coagulate bleeding.
Best Answer: The mechanisms of MPC and BPC electric current conduction are quite different. For MPC, the current flows from the generator to the cautery pen (the active electrode) through the subject's body to the inactive dispersive electrode, which is in contact with the subject, and then back to the generator.
In electrosurgical procedures, the tissue is heated by an electric current. Although electrical devices may be used for the cauterization of tissue in some applications, electrosurgery is usually used to refer to a quite different method than electrocautery. Electrosurgery is performed using an electrosurgical generator (also referred to as power supply or waveform generator) and a handpiece including one or several electrodes, sometimes referred to as an RF Knife.
monopolar electrocautery (unipolar electrocautery) an electrocautery in which current is applied through a handheld active electrode and travels back to the generator through an inactive electrode attached to the patient (the grounding pad), so that the patient is part of the electrical circuit. Also called unipolar electrocautery.