Many people are under the mistaken impression that carding and hand stripping is the same thing. While carding tools and stripping tools look similar they are not the same technique and each tool has a specific use. I want to lightly go over the technique of carding and show you what the different tools are used for. Carding is basically the removal of undercoat from a dog's coat. It is used a lot in short coated dogs like Pugs, Chihuahuas, Labs and the like. It is also used in sporting breeds like Cocker Spaniels and Setters to make t heir flat coat on the back lay flat and smooth. The Greyhound carding knives get used most at my shop. The way they are made they force you to hold them correctly. The correct way to hold a carding knife is at roughly a 45 degree angle to the coat. They have a flat side for your thumb to sit against and it guarantees the knife will stay at the right angle.
In preparing wool fiber for spinning, carding is the step that comes after teasing. The word is derived from the Latin carduus meaning teasel, as dried vegetable teasels were first used to comb the raw wool. Carding can also be used to create blends of different fibers or different colors. When blending, the carding process combines the different fibers into a homogeneous mix.
Carding. Carding is a mechanical process that disentangles, cleans and intermixes fibers to produce a continuous web or sliver suitable for subsequent processing. This is achieved by passing the fibers between differentially moving surfaces covered with card cloth
Carding is the process by which fibers are opened, cleaned and straightened in preparation for spinning. The fingers were first used, then a tool of wood or bone shaped like came into use, then two pieces of wood covered with skin set with thorns or teeth replaced the former two. Main Image: The process of cleaning, separating and straightening out the wool fibers is called Wool Carding. It is the last stage in the process which prepares fleece for spinning. Carding is done either manually or with the help of machines. Carding is not applied universally to all fibers, for instance flax is not carded but threshed instead. Wool and cotton are generally carded. Different colors or a mixture of fibers is also possible with carding. Carding can also be used to create mixes of different fibers or different colors
Carding is a mechanical process that disentangles, cleans and intermixes fibers to produce a continuous web or sliver suitable for subsequent processing. Carding can also be used to create blends of different fibers or different colors. When blending, the carding process combines the different fibers into a homogeneous mix.
Top Definition. carding. The act of obtaining someone else's credit card information, by either trashing which hardly works anymore, or hacking an online store, or simply looking at someone else's card and writing down it's number and exp. date.
Credit card fraud is a wide-ranging term for theft and fraud committed using or involving a payment card, such as a credit card or debit card, as a fraudulent source of funds in a transaction. The purpose may be to obtain goods without paying, or to obtain unauthorized funds from an account. 