So what are nematodes exactly? That is a very good question. For many the first time they hear about these microscopic little creatures are in the context of pest control, or more accurately biological control. Biological control is a form of pest control which utilises other creatures to control the offending pest. The newly applied nematodes will live in the soil for about 6 weeks (this varies with each species) but after this a new application of nematodes will be needed. It does make them one of the more expensive pest control options, but they are very effective.
Many species of nematodes are ‘free-living’, living in soil, sea and freshwater. These feed on bacteria, fungi, protozoans and even other nematodes, and play a very important role in nutrient cycling and release of nutrients for plant growth. Some species of nematodes live in the stomach of animals and prevent them from absorbing sufficient nutrients to grow properly. Farmers commonly treat their livestock with chemicals called ‘drenches’ or ‘anthelmintics’ to kill such nematode infestations.
Many kinds of nematodes live in the soil under any home lawn. Most of these soil nematodes are beneficial, feeding on bacteria, fungi, or other microscopic organisms found in soil (http://entnemdept.ufl.edu/creatures/nematode/soil_nematode.htm). Nematodes are unsegmented roundworms, different from earthworms (http://entnemdept.ufl.edu/creatures/MISC/MISC/Earthworm.htm) and other, more familiar worms. Nematodes living in soil are very small, and most can only be seen with the aid of a microscope (Figure 2).
Biological Control Of Pest Insects With Nematodes. Beneficial Nematodes naturally occur in soil and are used to control soil pest insects and whenever larvae or grubs are present. Like all of our products, it will not expose humans or animals to any health or environmental risks. 
While most of the thousands of species of nematodes on Earth are not harmful, some nematodes parasitize and cause diseases in humans and other animals. Also, unfortunately, there are many that attack and feed on living plants. What They Are. Often described as wormlike, nematodes are not closely related to true worms. 
Nematodes are the most numerous multicellular animals on earth. A handful of soil will contain thousands of the microscopic worms, many of them parasites of insects, plants or animals. Free-living species are abundant, including nematodes that feed on bacteria, fungi, and other nematodes, yet the vast majority of species encountered are poorly understood biologically.
Most nematodes are beneficial, feeding on bacteria, fungi, or other microscopic organisms, and some may be used as biological control organisms to help manage important insect pests. However, plant-parasitic nematodes (Figure 1) feed on live plants and are detrimental to the garden. Nematodes are unsegmented roundworms, different from earthworms (http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/in946) and other familiar worms that are segmented (annelids) or in some cases flattened and slimy (flatworms). Many kinds of nematodes are found in Florida soil.
Their many parasitic forms include pathogens in most plants and animals (including humans). Some nematodes can undergo cryptobiosis. One group of carnivorous fungi, the nematophagous fungi, are predators of soil nematodes. They set enticements for the nematodes in the form of lassos or adhesive structures. They are a diverse animal phylum inhabiting a very broad range of environments. Nematode species can be difficult to distinguish, and although over 25,000 have been described, of which more than half are parasitic, the total number of nematode species has been estimated to be about 1 million.