The giant forest genet lives in rainforests of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and western Uganda. The Haussa genet inhabits savannah and moist woodlands in West Africa. G. letabae has been recorded from woodland savannah in Lesotho, Swaziland, Mozambique, Namibia and South Africa. Genets can be socialized with cats and dogs, but they attack small animal pets. They are not cuddly pets, and don't do well in groups of genets but usually get along with dogs and cats if they have grown up with them. Smaller pets, like hamsters, quickly become food to a genet.. Genets are a ONE family pet, there is no such thing as rehoming a pet genet
Most will however lose some of their oldest leaves just before they produce new leaves in the spring. Some will lose part of their leaves in the fall. A tree can absorb as much as 48 pounds of carbon dioxide per year and can sequester 1 ton of carbon dioxide by the time it reaches 40 years old. Tree leaves are composed of many colored pigments -- green chlorophyll hides them during the spring and summer growing seasons. 
1 Animals need a place to live as we do. 2  Some live in the water and others in holes in the ground, but many animals live in trees. 3  We cannot live in trees because we do not have the special characteristics that are needed to move about in trees. 4  If we were to take away trees, we would leave many animals without homes. Principles: 1  Animals need a place to live as we do. 2  We cannot live in trees because we do not have the special characteristics that are needed to move about in trees. 3
Its spots are round and elongated. The forest genet lacks a dorsal crest and has a coat with spaced-out, elongated spots. The large-spotted genet has a smaller dorsal crest than its small-spotted relative and is the most widely distributed of the three species. Genets also have retractable claws adapted to climbing and catching prey. The genet favors a solitary existence. Adult genets are solitary except during periods of courtship or when young genets accompany their mothers. A female may have up to two litters a year with two to four young in each. Kittens are born in a burrow; their eyes and ears are shut at birth and open after about 10 days.
Genet Habits. The genet has adapted to a variety of habitats within its range. It can live in semi-desert, forest, scrubland, grassland, and savannah. During the day the genet sleeps in hollow trees or crevices. Its spotted fur provides good camouflage, so that it blends in wit the surroundings. Active by night, the genet seems to return to the same lair near dawn everyday. Genet In southern parts of the genet's range, the female may bear two litters a year. The female makes a nest in a hollow tree or among rocks, and the young are born there. They are blind at birth but open their eyes after 5 to 12 days. Their mother provides solid food for them at two months of age.
A clonal colony or genet is a group of genetically identical individuals, such as plants, fungi, or bacteria, that have grown in a given location, all originating vegetatively, not sexually, from a single ancestor. In plants, an individual in such a population is referred to as a ramet. A group of 47,000 Quaking Aspen (Populus tremuloides) trees (nicknamed  Pando ) in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah, USA, has been shown to be a single clone connected by the root system. It is sometimes considered the world's largest organism by mass, covering 106 acres (43 ha).
The pardine genet lives in primary and secondary rainforests, gallery forests, moist woodlands, but also in plantations and suburban areas ranging from Senegal to the Volta River in Ghana. The Abyssinian genet has been recorded in montane dry forest up to 3,750 m (12,300 ft) in Ethiopia. Genets can be socialized with cats and dogs, but they attack small animal pets. They are not cuddly pets, and don't do well in groups of genets but usually get along with dogs and cats if they have grown up with them. Smaller pets, like hamsters, quickly become food to a genet.. Genets are a ONE family pet, there is no such thing as rehoming a pet genet
Since your genet will be living indoors anyway, its exposure to other animals and possible viruses will be extremely limited.. For other uses, see Genet (disambiguation) . A genet (pronounced /ˈdʒɛnɪt/ or /dʒəˈnɛt/) is a member of the genus Genetta, which comprises 14 to 17 species of small African carnivorans. Genets can be socialized with cats and dogs, but they attack small animal pets. They are not cuddly pets, and don't do well in groups of genets but usually get along with dogs and cats if they have grown up with them. Smaller pets, like hamsters, quickly become food to a genet.. Genets are a ONE family pet, there is no such thing as rehoming a pet genet