A general bequest is a gift of money or other property that can be paid or taken from the decedent's general assets and not from a specific fund designated by the terms of the will. There is, however, a distinction between them. A bequest is applied, more properly, to a gift by will of a legacy, that is, of personal property; devise is properly a gift by testament of real property. Vide Devise.
Bequest can be of specific assets or of the residue (what is left after specific gifts have been made). (See: will, legacy). noun bequeathal, birthright, demise, devisal, devise, endowment, entail, gift, heirdom, heirloom, heritable, heritage, inheritance, legacy, testamentary disposition, testamentary gift. There is, however, a distinction between them. A bequest is applied, more properly, to a gift by will of a legacy, that is, of personal property; devise is properly a gift by testament of real property. Vide Devise.
Verb. 1. bequeath-leave or give by will after one's death; My aunt bequeathed me all her jewelry; My grandfather left me his entire estate. will, leave. leave behind, leave-be survived by after one's death; He left six children; At her death, she left behind her husband and 11 cats. bequeath. 1. Law. To give (property) to another person after one's death: leave, will. Law: devise. 2. To convey (something) from one generation to the next: hand down, hand on, pass (along or on), transmit.
bequeath-leave or give by will after one's death; My aunt bequeathed me all her jewelry; My grandfather left me his entire estate. bequeath. 1. Law. To give (property) to another person after one's death: leave, will. Law: devise. 2. To convey (something) from one generation to the next: hand down, hand on, pass (along or on), transmit.
bequest. n. the gift of personal property under the terms of a will. Bequests are not always outright, but may be conditional upon the happening or non-happening of an event (such as marriage), or executory in which the gift is contingent upon a future event. There is, however, a distinction between them. A bequest is applied, more properly, to a gift by will of a legacy, that is, of personal property; devise is properly a gift by testament of real property. Vide Devise.
A bequest is the act of giving property by will. Strictly, bequest is used of personal property, and devise of real property. In legal terminology, bequeath is a verb form meaning to make a bequest. Section 102(a) of the Code makes an exception for bequests stating that Gross income does not include the value of property acquired by gift, bequest, or inheritance.. In general this means that the value or amount of the bequest does not need to be included in a taxpayer's gross income.
bequeath-leave or give by will after one's death; My aunt bequeathed me all her jewelry; My grandfather left me his entire estate. - Etymologically, what you bequeath is what you say you will leave someone in your will—but the original sense say, utter died out, leaving the legal sense.
1. bequeath-leave or give by will after one's death; My aunt bequeathed me all her jewelry; My grandfather left me his entire estate. will, leave. leave behind, leave-be survived by after one's death; He left six children; At her death, she left behind her husband and 11 cats. - Etymologically, what you bequeath is what you say you will leave someone in your will—but the original sense say, utter died out, leaving the legal sense.
Meaning: Leave or give by will after one's death. Classified under: Verbs of buying, selling, owning. Synonyms: bequeath; will; leave. Context examples: My aunt bequeathed me all her jewelry / My grandfather left me his entire estate.
Nouns denoting possession and transfer of possession. Synonyms: bequest; legacy. Hypernyms (bequest is a kind of...): heritage; inheritance (that which is inherited; a title or property or estate that passes by law to the heir on the death of the owner). gift (something acquired without compensation). 