The natural environment of E.coli cells is the lower intestine of a warm-blooded animal. Its optimal growth temperature is 37 C. The doubling time or generation time for most E.coli strains in a rich medium at 37 C is between 20 to 40 minutes. Escherichia coli or E.coli cells may grow on a solid or in a liquid growth medium under a laboratory condition. Solid and liquid media may have exactly the same composition except that the solid medium contains an extra 1.5% agar.
Bacteria may be introduced to the media (inoculated) by various means. Usually the bacteria e.g. from a drop in a heat-sterilised loop are spread on the surface of (ready set) agar. 
If the bacteria on your LB agar plates are not fresh, you should streak your bacteria onto a new LB agar plate before growing in liquid culture. More aeration may help to increase the density of the culture. Normally cultures shake at 150 - 250 rpm, increase this to 350 - 400 rpm to obtain a higher cell density. After incubation, check for growth, which is characterized by a cloudy haze in the media (see right). Note: Some protocols require bacteria to be in the log phase of growth. Check the instructions for your specific protocol and conduct an OD600 to measure the density of your culture if needed.
Incubation of agar plates [edit]. Plates are incubated upside down to prevent drops of condensation collecting on the inoculated surface. Some plates are incubated at 37° C in a 5% CO 2 atmosphere: the temperature and conditions at which some of the body's bacteria will grow. Special incubators can maintain these conditions. Fungi, and some bacteria (e.g. Yersinia sp.), should be incubated slightly cooler. This is usually 30 °C, and room air often is used. Yoghurt bacteria grow at much higher temperatures (typically ~45 °C). They are therefore particulally safe to use when teaching microbiology, especially to children.
Agar Plates. In agar plates, the agar (for solidification) and liquid growth medium of the desired bacteria for growth combine. Agar plates are then incubated at the desired temperature for growth. When scientists want to grow bacteria, a number of factors affect the incubation technique used. Individual temperature requirements, food required for growth and pH requirements represent just a few of the things to consider before incubation.
Bacteria may be introduced to the media (inoculated) by various means. Usually the bacteria e.g. from a drop in a heat-sterilised loop are spread on the surface of (ready set) agar. A similar technique is used with broth cultures. Sometimes bacteria in a liquid are introduced using a sterile pipette to the Petri dish before the (fairly cool) agar medium is poured on top (pour plates). Cultures are usually examined after 24 hrs incubation.
Incubate bacterial culture at 37°C for 12-18hr in a shacking incubator. Note: Some plasmids or strains require growth at 30°C. If so, you will likely need to grow for a longer time to get the correct density of bacteria since they will grow more slowly at lower temperatures. After incubation, check for growth, which is characterized by a cloudy haze in the media (see right). Note: Some protocols require bacteria to be in the log phase of growth. Check the instructions for your specific protocol and conduct an OD600 to measure the density of your culture if needed. Note: A good negative control is LB media + antibiotic without any bacteria inoculated
Incubating the plates to promote growth of microbes is an essential part of any microbiology investigation. Incubating in aerobic conditions, and below human body temperature, reduce the risk of encouraging microorganisms (particularly bacteria) that could be pathogenic to humans. Or you can stop the growth of a culture completely by placing a piece of filter paper into the lid of the inverted plate. Add a little 40% methanal solution carefully to soak the filter paper and replace the base. Leave for 24 hours. Remove the filter paper, remove any surplus liquid, and reseal the plate.
The temperature required for incubation depends on the bacteria you want to grow. For example, psychrophiles (15 to 20 degrees C), mesophiles (25 to 40 degrees C) and thermophiles (45 to 80 degrees C) all have different optimal temperatures. When scientists want to grow bacteria, a number of factors affect the incubation technique used. Individual temperature requirements, food required for growth and pH requirements represent just a few of the things to consider before incubation.
2 Keep plates at room temperature or incubate at 20-25 °C for 2-3 days. Fungi grow more successfully at lower temperatures. Do not incubate at human body temperature (or above 30 °C) – this reduces the risk of culturing microbes that are pathogens to humans. 3 Reducing the temperature to 4 °C will slow the growth of any cultures – so you can show your students a 2-3 day growth if your lessons are a week apart. 4 All inoculated plates must be taped before incubation to ensure they cannot be opened accidentally. Or you can stop the growth of a culture completely by placing a piece of filter paper into the lid of the inverted plate. Add a little 40% methanal solution carefully to soak the filter paper and replace the base. Leave for 24 hours. Remove the filter paper, remove any surplus liquid, and reseal the plate.