1 Original Diplomatic passport. 2  One recent (less than 6 months old), full-face clear photo (in color only) with white background (must be 5x5cm) per applicant. photo requirements. 3  If you are not a Swiss citizen, a copy of your Swiss residency permit or Carte de legitimation.
Diplomatic and Official Visas. Holders of diplomatic or official or service passports and laissez passer to enter Mexico in official missions or in private trips can apply for a diplomatic or official visa, if not exempted. For a list of countries exempted of Mexican diplomatic and official visas, browse here. Requirements: 1  A valid passport valid from the date of entry with one photocopy of the page where the personal details and holder's photograph are found. 2  Fill in the Visa application.
Holders of diplomatic or official or service passports and laissez passer to enter Mexico in official missions or in private trips can apply for a diplomatic or official visa, if not exempted. For a list of countries exempted of Mexican diplomatic and official visas, browse here. Requirements: 1  A valid passport valid from the date of entry with one photocopy of the page where the personal details and holder's photograph are found. 2  Fill in the Visa application.
1 First, check the current validity of your passport. 2  All travelers will need a passport valid for at least 90 days following your departure date from Mexico. 3  However, we strongly recommend traveling with 6 months validity on your passport at all times.
Nationals of the following 65 countries and jurisdictions holding normal passports do not require a visa to enter Mexico as tourists, visitors in transit or business visitors. Tourists and business visitors can stay in Mexico for up to 180 days. Visitors in transit can stay for up to 30 days.
Diplomats, Government Officials, and Holders of Diplomatic Passports. Any applicant who carries a diplomatic passport, or who is traveling to the United States on official business on behalf of a foreign government, should apply for their visa directly with the Consular Section following the steps below.
For instance, a senior official of a foreign government, travelling on a diplomatic passport, should not be issued a diplomatic visa if the individual intends to enter Canada for commercial negotiations with private enterprises, or on a private visit.