Main Content Area. Leprosy (Hansen’s Disease), is a chronic infectious disease that primarily affects the peripheral nerves, skin, upper respiratory tract, eyes, and nasal mucosa. The disease is caused by a bacillus (rod-shaped) bacterium known as Mycobacterium leprae. 
-- Mycobacterium Leprae. Mycobacterium leprae are part of the family Mycobacteriaceae, which is the same family as the bacteria that cause tuberculosis (Mycobacterium tuberculosis). Mycobacterium leprae grow slowly and mainly affect the skin, nerves, and mucous membranes. Even in severe cases of leprosy, the destruction caused by Mycobacterium leprae is limited to the: When a person becomes infected with Mycobacterium leprae, the bacteria begin to multiply within the body. After three to five years, leprosy symptoms can begin. This period between becoming infected and the start of symptoms is called the leprosy incubation period..
Mycobacterium leprae, also known as Hansen’s coccus spirilly, mostly found in warm tropical countries, is a Gram-positive bacterium that causes leprosy (Hansen's disease). 
Q: A: Mycobacterium leprae is the scientific name for the pathogen of Leprosy. It is an intracellular, pleomorphic, acid fast bacterium. M. Leprae is a gram-positive aerobic rod-shaped (bacillus) surrounded by the characteristic waxy coating unique to mycobacteria. What is the scientific name for leprosy. http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-the-scientific-name-for-leprosy. Leprosy's scientific name is mycobacterium leprae humanum. It's also named  Hansen's disease after its discoverer, G-A Hansen. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-the-scientific-name-for-leprosy ]. More Answers to  What is the scientific name for leprosy 
Leprosy, also known as Hansen's disease (HD), is a chronic infection caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium leprae and Mycobacterium lepromatosis. Initially, infections are without symptoms and typically remain this way from 5 to as long as 20 years. Leprosy is curable with a treatment known as multidrug therapy (MDT). Treatment for paucibacillary leprosy is with the medications dapsone and rifampicin for six months. Treatment for multibacillary leprosy consists of rifampicin, dapsone, and clofazimine for 12 months.
Leprosy is caused by a slow-growing type of bacteria called Mycobacterium leprae (M. leprae). Leprosy is also known as Hansen's disease, after the scientist who discovered M. leprae in 1873. Font Size. A. A. A. Leprosy is an infectious disease that causes severe, disfiguring skin sores and nerve damage in the arms and legs. The disease has been around since ancient times, often surrounded by terrifying, negative stigmas and tales of leprosy patients being shunned as outcasts.
Leprosy in Tahiti, circa 1895. Leprosy is primarily a granulomatous disease of the peripheral nerves and mucosa of the upper respiratory tract; skin lesions (light or dark patches) are the primary external sign. If untreated, leprosy can progress and cause permanent damage to the skin, nerves, limbs, and eyes. Leprosy is curable with a treatment known as multidrug therapy (MDT). Treatment for paucibacillary leprosy is with the medications dapsone and rifampicin for six months. Treatment for multibacillary leprosy consists of rifampicin, dapsone, and clofazimine for 12 months.
Description. Mycobacterium leprae is a microaerophilic, acid-fast bacillus which causes leprosy. Since Mycobacterium leprae cannot easily be cultured in the lab, much is unknown about the infectious dose, incubation, and transmission of the disease [7] . The infection is thought to be spread through the skin and nasal mucosa. Due to the intracellular lifestyle of the bacteria, Mycobacterium leprae infection is associated with symptoms that are the result of the immune system attacking host cells. The bacteria elicit an immune response on nerve cells and other immune cells, causing inflammation and neuropathy [7] .