As an employee, you are not allowed to work more than 12 hours a day. However, your employer can ask you to work more than 12 hours a day in the following circumstances: 1  An accident or threat of accident. Working more than 12 hours a day (overtime exemption). If an employer requires employees to work more than 12 hours a day (up to a maximum of 14 hours), they must apply for an overtime exemption.
1. You can’t work more than 48 hours a week on average-normally averaged over 17 weeks. This law is sometimes called the ‘working time directive’ or ‘working time regulations’. You can choose to work more by opting out of the 48-hour week. Overview. You can’t work more than 48 hours a week on average-normally averaged over 17 weeks. This law is sometimes called the ‘working time directive’ or ‘working time regulations’. You can choose to work more by opting out of the 48-hour week.
What are the maximum hours I can be expected to work over an average working day? Workers covered by the Working Time Regulations must not be required to work more than 13 hours per day. Also individuals must not be required, against their wishes, to work an average of more than 48 hours a week. Workers may agree in writing to work more than the 48 hours per week on average, and can withdraw their agreement at any time. Here is some guidance explaining how to 'opt back in' to the 48-hour week. The hours that an individual works in a week are averaged out over what is termed a ' reference period'.
Opting out of the 48 hour week. You can choose to work more than 48 hours a week on average if you’re over 18. This is called ‘opting out’. Your employer can ask you to opt out, but you can’t be sacked or treated unfairly for refusing to do so.
You may have to work more than 48 hours a week on average if you work in a job: 1  where 24-hour staffing is required. 2  in the armed forces, emergency services or police. Overview. You can’t work more than 48 hours a week on average-normally averaged over 17 weeks. This law is sometimes called the ‘working time directive’ or ‘working time regulations’. You can choose to work more by opting out of the 48-hour week.
Daily Limit. The maximum number of hours most employees can be required to work in a day is eight hours or the number of hours in an established regular workday, if it is longer than eight hours. The only way the daily maximum can be exceeded is by written agreement between the employee and employer. The maximum number of hours most employees can be required to work in a week is 48 hours. The weekly maximum can be exceeded only if there is a written agreement between the employee and employer and the employer has received the approval of the Director of Employment Standards.
0 attorneys agreed. Re: Maximum Work Hours Allowed. Generally, the only restriction on hours worked under federal law is that you have to be paid 1-1/2 your regular rate for every hour in excess of 40 during a single workweek. This only applies if you work in a nonexempt position.
Report Abuse. As a night worker (including the time between midnight and 5 am) you should not work more than an average of 8 hours in each 24 hour period. If your job involves heavy lifting or mental strain, then 8 hours is the absolute limit. Your employer cannot force you to work more than 48 hours a week. I don't know of any restrictions per day None of this applies if you are in management, as you are considered to be in control of your own hours. 