A large bowl of mirin. Mirin (味醂 or みりん) is an essential condiment used in Japanese cuisine. It is a type of rice wine similar to sake, but with a lower alcohol content and higher sugar content. The sugar content is a complex carbohydrate formed naturally via the fermentation process; it is not refined sugar.
However, many Hanafis regard them as haram or makrooh. While Jafari fiqh considers shrimp and prawn as halal, crab and non-scaled sea creatures (such as eel) are haram. Mirin is a Japanese condiment that has low alcoholic content, and is sometimes used in making Sushi rice. So ask the Sushi chef if they are using it or not, and if they do use it ask if it's the alcoholic version. Meat is less commonly associated with Sushi, but it isn't unheard of. 
No Follow. When a recipe calls for mirin, the Japanese sweet rice wine, you need a combination of acidic and sweet flavors. Add between 1 and 2 tablespoons of sugar to 1/2 cup of white wine, vermouth, or dry sherry to replace 1/2 cup of mirin. Chicken Skewers with Soy-Mirin Marinade is one of our top-rated Asian recipes that uses mirin. And for more information on Japanese ingredients, see The Japanese Pantry
For sushi to be halal, “mirin” rice wine, a major ingredient in Japanese cuisine, must be omitted. Currently, at least five Japanese restaurants and other food outlets in Singapore have been certified halal by MUIS. Most of them received the certification last year. 
Substitute: You can use sake and sugar for mirin if you need. The basic ratio of sake and sugar is 3 to 1. It's good to use 1 Tbsp of sake and 1 tsp of sugar for 1 Tbsp of mirin. Adjust the amount of sugar, depending on your preference. About Mirin: Mirin is a Japanese condiment which contains about 14% alcohol. To make mirin, steamed mochi-gome (glutinous rice), kome-koji (cultured rice), and shochu (distilled alcoholic beverage) are mixed and fermented for about 2 months.
Sushi is made with sushi rice — white, short-grained, Japanese rice mixed with a dressing made of rice vinegar, sugar, and salt. Commonly sake (酒) (pronounced: sa-ki), a traditional Japanese rice wine, or mirin (みりん), a sweet Japanese cooking wine, are added to the sushi rice. Sushi rice is served topped with fresh fish, seafood, egg, fresh vegetables or pickles and served alongside slices of tender pickled ginger, wasabi paste and soy sauce. Sake is a traditional Japanese rice wine. Its color is clear to white. Sake has an alcohol content of 18-20%, compared to an alcohol content of 12% for typical grape wines. Mirin is a rice wine similar to sake, but very sweet. Mirin has an alcohol content of 14%. When called for, the typical sushi rice recipe uses ¼ cup of sake or mirin. Mirin and sake are stirred to the rice after cooking
/ Edit Post. Email. Mirin is sweet rice wine, used primarily to flavor Japanese dishes. A recent discussion on Chowhound noted that aji-mirin is the more commonly available sweetened product, easy to find in Asian groceries and some supermarkets. And while paulj thinks Kikkoman aji-mirin resembles flavored corn syrup, it's fine for many recipes.