Binomial nomenclature (also called binominal nomenclature or binary nomenclature) is a formal system of naming species of living things by giving each a name composed of two parts, both of which use Latin grammatical forms, although they can be based on words from other languages. In modern usage, the first letter of the first part of the name, the genus, is always capitalized in writing, while that of the second part is not, even when derived from a proper noun such as the name of a person or place. Similarly, both parts are italicized when a binomial name occurs in normal text.
Scientific names are also designed to tell you something about the animal's relationships with other animals. The scientific name of each species is made up of a generic name (generic epithet) and a specific name (specific epithet). In our bluegill sunfish example the generic epithet is Lepomis and the specific epithet is macrochirus.
Science writing and editing: How to write scientific names. The Latin scientific name of a species, be it plant, animal, bacterium, fungus, etc., is a two-part name consisting of the genus name first (by the way: one genus, two genera) and the species name second. For example, the domestic cat is known as Felis catu
The system of nomenclature used today is based on the binomial system of nomenclature, developed by Linnaeus in the late 1700's. The binomial system of nomenclature is structured so that the scientific name of a plant consists of two names: (1) the genus or generic name, and (2) the specific epithet or species name. There are rules to follow when writing a scientific name. Genus Name The genus name is written first. The binomial system of nomenclature is structured so that the scientific name of a plant consists of two names: (1) the genus or generic name, and (2) the specific epithet or species name. There are rules to follow when writing a scientific name. Genus Name.
The scientific name of a species is formed by the combination of two terms The first name (capitalized) is the genus of the organism, the second (not capitalized) is its species. How to Write the Scientific Name of a plant: There are precise convention to follow when writing a scientific name. Genus Name. 
Scientific names. The scientific name of a species is governed by internationally accepted rules that determine what the name is and insure that each species has only one. Thus scientific names are the same in every locality and in every language. Each scientific name of a species is two words (a binomen) the first is the name of the genus to which the species is assigned, the second is the specific name. The genus name is capitalized, the specific name is not, and both are printed in italics. 
Scientific Name. The scientific name for a species is either in Latin or Greek, the language used by the first taxonomists. Over time, this has remained the case, and the universal way of describing organisms to avoid mis-understandings which can arise when using the common name of a species
Scientific names are also designed to tell you something about the animal's relationships with other animals. The scientific name of each species is made up of a generic name (generic epithet) and a specific name (specific epithet). In our bluegill sunfish example the generic epithet is Lepomis and the specific epithet is macrochirus. The specific name, megalotis, means big ears.. Another example is, whose scientific name is Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus, which literally means yellow-headed, yellow head.. Scientific names also sometimes bear the names of people who were instrumental in discovering or describing the species.