Italy is the world's largest producer of table grapes (Vitis vinifera), accounting for 21% of all grapes harvested worldwide. Italian table grape production is concentrated in southern Italy, in the Apulia (65%) and Sicily (25%) regions of the country. Italians consume about 8 pounds per capita per year. Italian table grapes varieties with seeds include Italia (Muscat), Vittoria and Red Globe. Grape seeds are said to be the sex of the fruit-by removing the seeds, you remove the sexiness, the romanticism and the true nature of the grape. There are two ways to eat seeded grapes.
Their colors ranges from white (such as Muscat Ottonel), to yellow (Moscato Giallo), to pink (Moscato rosa del Trentino) to near black (Muscat Hamburg). Muscat grapes and wines almost always have a pronounced sweet floral aroma. Like Muscat of Hamburg, Muscat Ottonel is a relatively recent addition to the Muscat family, being bred in the Loire Valley wine region of France in the 1850s. The grape is a cross of the Swiss wine grape Chasselas and Muscat d'Eisenstadt (also known as Muscat de Saumur).
Red Muscat grapes are comparably smaller than the more common table grape variety, yet some bunches can reach up to a full pound in weight. The skin of the Red Muscat grape can range in color from a pale blush to a deep red. These ancient grapes are known for their sweet taste and distinctive floral aroma.
Muscat grapes are available during the spring and summer months. Red Muscat grapes are a variety of Vitis vinifera most often associated with winemaking. The Italian grapes are known by many names, such as Muscatel, Moscato and Moskatel, and include more than 200 varieties. The skin of the Red Muscat grape can range in color from a pale blush to a deep red. These ancient grapes are known for their sweet taste and distinctive floral aroma.
All Varietals // Muscat. Muscat. One of the more versatile white wine grapes, Muscat is grown around the world for use in use in light and dry wines, low-alcohol sparkling wines, and sweet, late-harvest wines.
Muscat grapes are sweet and perfumy, with a luscious distinctive flavor that separates them from other table grapes. Some of you are familiar with the muscat flavor from sweet wines made with the grape. Recently, I saw a seedless variety of muscat grape, imported from Chile, in a local market. They are quite a treat. 
The Muscat family is highly populous with more than 200 distinct members. However, among these many different grapes only a handful of Muscat varieties are widely used in wine production. These include Muscat blanc a à Petits, Grains muscat Of, Alexandria muscat Of hamburg And Muscat. ottonel Like Muscat of Hamburg, Muscat Ottonel is a relatively recent addition to the Muscat family, being bred in the Loire Valley wine region of France in the 1850s. The grape is a cross of the Swiss wine grape Chasselas and Muscat d'Eisenstadt (also known as Muscat de Saumur).
White Muscat-early ripening July variety. The Muscat family of grapes include over 200 grape varieties belonging to the Vitis vinifera species that have been used in wine production and as raisin and table grapes around the globe for many centuries. Like Muscat of Hamburg, Muscat Ottonel is a relatively recent addition to the Muscat family, being bred in the Loire Valley wine region of France in the 1850s. The grape is a cross of the Swiss wine grape Chasselas and Muscat d'Eisenstadt (also known as Muscat de Saumur).
Muscat of Alexandria is a white wine grape that is a member of the Muscat family of Vitis vinifera. It is considered an ancient vine, and wine experts believe it is one of the oldest genetically unmodified vines still in existence. 