Medical Definition of BILE ACID. : any of several steroid acids (as cholic acid) that occur in bile usually in the form of sodium salts conjugated with glycine or taurine. : any of several steroid acids (as cholic acid) of or derived from bile. ADVERTISEMENT.
noun. : any of several steroid acids (as cholic acid) that occur in bile usually in the form of sodium salts conjugated with glycine or taurine. : any of several steroid acids (as cholic acid) of or derived from bile. ADVERTISEMENT.
Bile acid: An acid made by the liver that works with bile to break down fats. On a more technical level, bile acids are steroid carboxylic acids derived from cholesterol. The primary bile acids are cholic and chenodeoxycholic acids. They are conjugated with glycine or taurine before they are secreted into the bile. 
bile salts. Etymology: L, bilis, bile; AS, sealt. a mixture of sodium salts of the bile acids and cholic and chenodeoxycholic acids synthesized in the liver as a derivative of cholesterol. Their low surface tension contributes to the emulsification of fats in the intestine and their absorption from the GI tract
Definition of BILE ACID. : any of several steroid acids (as cholic acid) of or derived from bile. ADVERTISEMENT.
Bile: Bile is a yellow-green fluid that is made by the liver, stored in the gallbladder and passes through the common bile duct into the duodenum where it helps digest fat. The principal components of bile are cholesterol, bile salts, and the pigment bilirubin. 
Bile acids are steroid acids found predominantly in the bile of mammals and other vertebrates. Different molecular forms of bile acids can be synthesized in the liver by different species. Bile acids are conjugated with taurine or glycine in the liver, forming bile salts. Primary bile acids are those synthesized by the liver. Secondary bile acids result from bacterial actions in the colon. 
PHYSILOGY AND PATHOLOGY. Definition. Bile acids or, better, bile salts are the metabolites of cholesterol. Cholesterol metabolism occurs in the liver. Formation from cholesterol. Bile acids are formed by removal of the last three carbon atoms of the terminal aliphatic side chain of cholesterol. 
Definition of BILE SALT. 1. : a salt of bile acid. 2. plural: a dry mixture of the principal salts of the gall of the ox used as a liver stimulant and as a laxative. ADVERTISEMENT. 
n. Any of the liver-generated steroid acids, such as cholic acid, that commonly occur in the bile in combination with glycine and taurine as sodium salts. 1. bile acid-any of the steroid acids generated in the liver and stored with bile. steroid-any of several fat-soluble organic compounds having as a basis 17 carbon atoms in four rings; many have important physiological effects. cholic acid-an insoluble crystalline acid present in bile.