The ability of the immune system to remember specific antigens through the production of memory cells, which are produced after an initial exposure and are saved in case of a second exposure to an antigen. 
Almost all cells in the body present antigens-and they present the antigens in a special protein complex called the Major Histocompatability Complex (MHC). This may sound complicated but MHC is simply a group of proteins that captures proteins within the cell and brings them to the cell membrane. This genetic material is expressed into proteins that become part of the surface of the cell, its membrane. The proteins are called antigens in the context of the immune system. All livings things are made of cells, from one cell to millions of cells – including us and the organisms we refer to as pathogens.
Another important type of T cell is called the T killer/suppressor subset or CD8+ T cell. These cells are important in directly killing certain tumor cells, viral-infected cells and sometimes parasites. The CD8+ T cells are also important in down-regulation of immune responses. The immune system is composed of many interdependent cell types that collectively protect the body from bacterial, parasitic, fungal, viral infections and from the growth of tumor cells. Many of these cell types have specialized functions.
The receptors match only one specific antigen. White blood cells called lymphocytes originate in the bone marrow but migrate to parts of the lymphatic system such as the lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus. There are two main types of lymphatic cells, T cells and B cells. T cells can also produce memory cells with an even longer life span than B memory cells. The second time an intruder tries to invade the body, B and T memory cells help the immune system to activate much faster. The invaders are wiped out before the infected human feels any symptoms.
These cells are usually found in the structural compartment of the lymphoid organs such as the thymus, lymph nodes and spleen. However, they are also found in the bloodstream and other tissues of the body. It is believed that they capture antigen or bring it to the lymphoid organs where an immune response is initiated. The immune system is composed of many interdependent cell types that collectively protect the body from bacterial, parasitic, fungal, viral infections and from the growth of tumor cells. Many of these cell types have specialized functions.
All cells (human, bacterial and everything in between) hold some form of genetic material. This genetic material is expressed into proteins that become part of the surface of the cell, its membrane. The proteins are called antigens in the context of the immune system. All livings things are made of cells, from one cell to millions of cells – including us and the organisms we refer to as pathogens.
When an antibody attaches to an antigen, it helps the body destroy or inactivate the antigen. antigen —a substance or molecule that is recognized by the immune system. The antigen can be from foreign material such as bacteria or viruses. antiserum —a serum rich in antibodies against a particular microbe. B cells, T cells, and NK T cells are lymphocytes. lymphoid organ —an organ of the immune system where lymphocytes develop and congregate. These organs include the bone marrow, thymus, lymph nodes, spleen, and various other clusters of lymphoid tissue. Blood vessels and lymphatic vessels are also lymphoid organs.
Once activated, helper T cells start to divide and to produce proteins that activate B and T cells as well as other immune cells. The killer T cell is specialized in attacking cells of the body infected by viruses and sometimes also by bacteria. It can also attack cancer cells. The killer T cell has receptors that are used to search each cell that it meets. T cells can also produce memory cells with an even longer life span than B memory cells. The second time an intruder tries to invade the body, B and T memory cells help the immune system to activate much faster. The invaders are wiped out before the infected human feels any symptoms.
Macrophages -- Macrophages are important in the regulation of immune responses. They are often referred to as scavengers or antigen-presenting cells (APC) because they pick up and ingest foreign materials and present these antigens to other cells of the immune system such as T cells and B cells. The immune system is composed of many interdependent cell types that collectively protect the body from bacterial, parasitic, fungal, viral infections and from the growth of tumor cells. Many of these cell types have specialized functions.