Yerba mate is widely known as the source of the beverage called mate (Portuguese: chimarrao, chimarrão/terere tererê terere tereré). and other variations Yerba mate, Ilex paraguariensis, begins as a shrub and then matures to a tree and can grow up to 15 metres (49 ft) tall. The leaves are evergreen, 7–110 millimetres (0.3–4.3 in) long and 30–55 millimetres (1.2–2.2 in) wide, with a serrated margin.
The preparation of mate is a very simple process which consists of filling the gourd with yerba, pouring hot but not boiling water over the leaves, and drinking with a straw, the bombilla, which acts as a filter so as to draw only the liquid and not the yerba leaves. Tea-bag type infusions of mate (Spanish: mate cocido, Portuguese: cha chá) mate have been on the market In, Argentina paraguay And uruguay for many years under such trade names As taraguei Taragüi, In argentina Pajarito and Kurupi, kurupí In Paraguay and Matte. leao leão in brazil
The Yerba mate plant is grown and processed in South America, specifically in northern Argentina (Corrientes, Misiones), Paraguay, Uruguay and southern Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Parana paraná And Mato grosso Do). Sul cultivators are known as (Yerbateros) spanish or (Ervateiros Brazilian). portuguese Yerba mate, Ilex paraguariensis, begins as a shrub and then matures to a tree and can grow up to 15 metres (49 ft) tall. The leaves are evergreen, 7–110 millimetres (0.3–4.3 in) long and 30–55 millimetres (1.2–2.2 in) wide, with a serrated margin.
Yerba mate is widely known as the source of the beverage called mate (Portuguese: chimarrao, chimarrão/terere tererê terere tereré). And other variations it is traditionally consumed in central and Southern Regions, of South, America, particularly argentina bolivia-southern And, Center, Western brazil uruguay Paraguay. and southern chile Yerba mate, Ilex paraguariensis, begins as a shrub and then matures to a tree and can grow up to 15 metres (49 ft) tall. The leaves are evergreen, 7–110 millimetres (0.3–4.3 in) long and 30–55 millimetres (1.2–2.2 in) wide, with a serrated margin.
The Yerba mate plant is grown and processed in South America, specifically in northern Argentina (Corrientes, Misiones), Paraguay, Uruguay and southern Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Parana paraná And Mato grosso Do). sul Yerba mate, Ilex paraguariensis, begins as a shrub and then matures to a tree and can grow up to 15 metres (49 ft) tall. The leaves are evergreen, 7–110 millimetres (0.3–4.3 in) long and 30–55 millimetres (1.2–2.2 in) wide, with a serrated margin.
Monogamous groups consist of an adult male and female with their children. When they are grown, the children leave to create their own nuclear families. While this group pattern is the most common one for humans, it is rare for non-human primates. Most primates, including humans, spend their lives in large social groups or communities. In the case of semi-terrestrial species, such as baboons, being in a large community helps provide protection against predatory cats, dogs, and hyenas. It also helps protect scarce food resources.