A common result of mycoplasma infection is pneumonia (sometimes called walking pneumonia because it is usually mild and rarely requires hospitalization). Infections of the middle ear (otitis media) also can result. Less common finding are abnormalities of liver function, nausea, diarrhea, and rash. Mycoplasma infection is most common in late summer and fall. Mycoplasma is spread through contact with droplets from the nose and throat of infected people when they cough and sneeze. Transmission is thought to require prolonged close contact with an infected person.
What are the symptoms of mycoplasma infection? Typical symptoms include fever, cough, bronchitis, sore throat, headache and malaise (generalized tiredness). A common result of mycoplasma infection is pneumonia (sometimes called walking pneumonia because it is usually mild and rarely requires hospitalization). Infections of the middle ear (otitis media) also can result. Less common finding are abnormalities of liver function, nausea, diarrhea, and rash. Mycoplasma Infection (walking pneumonia, atypical pneumonia)by Dr. Earl H. Eye, M.D. 6/16/98 What is mycoplasma infection? Mycoplasma infection is respiratory illness caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae, a microscopic organism related to bacteria but lacking a cell wall.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae (M. pneumoniae) is an atypical bacterium (the singular form of bacteria) that causes lung infection. It is a common cause of community-acquired pneumonia (lung infections developed outside of a hospital). M. pneumoniae infections are sometimes referred to as walking pneumonia.. This illness is often seen with other upper respiratory tract symptoms, like a sore throat. Sometimes M. pneumoniae infection can cause pneumonia, a more serious infection of the lungs, which may require treatment or care in a hospital.
Mycoplasma Infection (walking pneumonia, atypical pneumonia)by Dr. Earl H. Eye, M.D. 6/16/98 What is a Mycoplasma infection? Mycoplasma infection is respiratory illness caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae, a microscopic organism related to bacteria but lacking a cell wall. The organism is larger than a virus but smaller than a bacterium, thus it is called an Atypical bacteria. Mycoplasma infection is most common in late summer and fall. Mycoplasma is spread through contact with droplets from the nose and throat of infected people when they cough and sneeze. Transmission is thought to require prolonged close contact with an infected person.
Article Body. Some lung infections, including many cases of mild pneumonia (also referred to as walking pneumonia), are caused by an organism called Mycoplasma pneumoniae. It is spread from person to person in secretions such as phlegm from the respiratory passages and has an incubation period of 2 to 3 weeks. Upper respiratory tract infections, including sore throats and, at times, ear infections. Children with this infection may also have a high fever, long-lasting weakness, and in some cases, headaches and a rash. Their cough can change from a dry cough to a phlegmy one.
Typical symptoms include fever, cough, bronchitis, sore throat, headache and tiredness. A common result of mycoplasma infection is pneumonia (sometimes called walking pneumonia because it is usually mild and rarely requires hospitalization). Infections of the middle ear (otitis media) also can result. Symptoms may persist for a few days to more than a month. Mycoplasma is spread through contact with droplets from the nose and throat of infected people especially when they cough and sneeze. Transmission is thought to require prolonged close contact with an infected person. Spread in families, schools and institutions occurs slowly.
Myringitis is an ear infection that causes blisters and small lumps on the eardrum. It is a painful condition in which the middle ear develops inflammation due to the formation of blisters. Apart from pain, there may be partial hearing loss for 2-3 days as the blister starts growing. 
Symptoms. Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections can cause a number of symptoms: Fever, which can be high, but is usually low grade. Fatigue. Headache. Skin rash. General feeling of sickness. Cough, particularly one that progresses from a dry cough to a productive cough. Ear infections. Croup. 
In addition to pneumonia, mycoplasmas can cause a variety of other respiratory illnesses, including ear infections (about 12% of all ear infections), sinus infections, bronchitis, croup, bronchiolitis, severe sore throats, infectious asthma, and even a version of the common cold. 