You have 21 days from the date you placed your order to return your book(s) for a refund. Get your prepaid UPS return labelPack your book(s) up in any. We're sorry your book was late. You have a couple options here: You can send in another copy of the book (make sure it has the same ISBN) and is in good condition.You can pay the.
There seems to be some confusion on how the service works. Only books shipped back to Chegg within 21 days of the order date are eligible for refunds. There are no refunds when returning at the end of your rental cycle. Chegg Help, I was selling a book back to Chegg over summer and I gave a great deal of time to hear back about receiving the textbook and have heard nothing. I checked the tracking number and it says that it arrived and was signed for already.
Returning your book to Chegg is super easy! 1  Just grab the books that are due. 2  Get your prepaid UPS return label. 3  Pack 'em up in any box. 4  Slap that return label on the box. 5  Drop it off at your nearest UPS on or before your due date! ** 6 Using UPS allows you to return your books to us for free. 1 Slap that return label on the box. 2  Drop it off at your nearest UPS on or before your due date! ** 3 Using UPS allows you to return your books to us for free. 4  We provide a pre-paid return label when you ship your books back via UPS.
Chegg.com gave me the most for my two books. I sent the books by UPS to Chegg. I find out today that they will only pay for ONE book. Apparent the other softcover book had a one inch corner crease on the front cover and the back cover. NOTHING ELSE is wrong with the book, no loose pages, no writing, no smudges, nothing missing.........great shape. DO NOT USE Chegg.com By J - 06/12/2009 I recently started back to school and with a family of 4, the outrageous prices for textbooks at the school bookstore were just beyond my means.
Best Answer: I have heard that Chegg is just fine. They ship quickly and are pretty reliable. But, I would also consider buying your textbooks from other students at your college. Although you will save money up front by renting from Chegg, you can't sell the books back, so you end up losing more money. You can read about this here: http://www.associatedcontent.com/article... Good luck! If you have any other questions, you can find my contact information in the About Me part of my profil
If you have books out make sure you get them to UPS by 6/1/12 to avoid additional fees. Sign-in to your account now to: 1  Pick the books that are due to be returned. 2  Print your return label. 3  Pack your books (you can use any clean box and do not need to include your packing slip). 4  Ship at the nearest UPS! Just want to return some books! Reply. I need a return label, to return my rented book. Thanks. Reply. Need return address sticker! Reply. I rented books from chegg and they haven’t arrived yet.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: As long as you use the prepaid UPS return label printed fro your Chegg account, you can print two labels for two boxes, or one label for one box with both books :) Be sure to have your books postmarked by your due date to avoid additional fees. Source(s): Student Advocate @Chegg.com. Jesus · 4 years ago