Directions. Preheat a grill to high heat. Place rib-eye steaks on a large platter and season with rub on all sides. Transfer seasoned steaks to the hot grill, and cook for 4 to 6 minutes on each side for medium-rare, longer if desired. Remove steaks and let rest for 5 to 10 minutes before serving. In a small bowl, combine all ingredients, to taste
Switch on your oven's broiler about 10 minutes prior to cooking your steak so it can preheat. Most broilers heat to 500 or 550 degrees Fahrenheit. When broiling, you can't control the temperature as you when you're baking; rather, the key variable is the distance of the food from the heating element. Rib-eye steaks have some of the juiciest, most tender, most flavorful meat available. This cut is ideal for grilling and for its indoor counterpart -- broiling. The broiler is an often-overlooked oven feature, but it's easy to use and does a good job in crisping the outside of the beef.
Put your oven rack 5-6 inches from the heating element. Place your broiler pan in the oven and then turn your broiler on high to preheat. 1. Rinse your steaks and pat them dry. This allows your seasonings to stick better. 2. Spray both sides with butter spray or drizzle with a small amount of olive oil. We use butter spray for the extra flavor. Season both sides of your steak generously with gourmet garlic and black pepper or whatever seasonings you like. 3. Place steaks on broiler pan and cook on one side for 6-8 minutes. 
Step 3: Broil. Place the steak in the oven and broil for the appropriate amount of time. A 3/4-inch boneless steak needs about 8 to 10 minutes while a 1-inch thick one needs 14 to 18 minutes. If you're broiling bone-in, a 1-inch steak needs 13 to 17 minutes. Go for the longer time if you want a more well-done piece of meat. Turn the meat once about halfway during the cooking process. Use a meat thermometer to ensure the steak reaches at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit internally.
Directions. Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. 
Turn the broiler on and heat the pan you will be cooking the steaks on. Just as you don’t want to throw the steak in a cold pan or on a cold grill, you want to make sure your broiler pan is nice and hot as well. Oil it a little with olive oil and turn the broiler on for 10 minutes. 
You will position a 3/4-inch thick rib-eye 2 inches below the broiler element; a 1-inch thick rib-eye 3 inches below the broiler; a 1 1/2-inch thick rib-eye 4 inches below the broiler; or a 2-inch thick rib-eye 5 inches below the broiler. Rib-eye steaks have some of the juiciest, most tender, most flavorful meat available. This cut is ideal for grilling and for its indoor counterpart -- broiling. The broiler is an often-overlooked oven feature, but it's easy to use and does a good job in crisping the outside of the beef.
2. Season the ribeye steaks for the broiler. Let the steaks come up to near room temperature before you season them. Since we are using expensive, tender meat, I recommend you season them simply with a little salt and pepper. Use a good salt, like kosher or sea salt. Move an oven rack to the second position from the top to allow the broiler room to spread its heat. Lay your ribeye steaks out on the broiling pan so they get direct and even heat. Once it has heated up for 5–7 minutes, put the steaks under the broiler. 4. Flip the ribeye steaks over and broil the other side.