Principles and Assumptions. Symbolic interactionism focuses on three main aspects of communication: meaning, language and thought. According to the theory, meaning is not inherent in objects, but is, instead, constructed and modified within different contexts through social interaction. The uniquely human ability to interpret symbols and analyze another person’s viewpoint through thinking allows meaning to emerge.
Description. People act based on symbolic meanings they find within any given situation. We thus interact with the symbols, forming relationships around them. The goals of our interactions with one another are to create shared meaning. Language is itself a symbolic form, which is used to anchor meanings to the symbols. Meaning is created in the interactions we have with other people in sharing our interpretations of symbols. Meanings are modified through an interpretive process whereby we first internally create meaning, then check it externally and with other people. We develop our self-concepts through interaction with others.
Finally, Ogden and Richards developed the Symbol Theory in order to explain how words expressed in communication evoke images, thus providing a personal meaning based on experience. Rather than focus on a single idea upon which to base the theory, they deconstruct the idea into many parts, thus creating a multi-faceted theory to explain communication behaviors. The facets explored by Ogden and Richards include Meaning Theory, Definition Theory, and Symbol Theory.
Contagion theories seek to explain networks as conduits for “infectious” attitudes and behavior. Contagion theories are related to a number of theories: (e.g.) Structurational Theory, Symbolic Interaction, Gatekeeping, Network Theory and Analysis, Hypodermic Needle Theory. These theories all focus on the different aspects of the social construction process. Contagion theories are used to explain network members’ attitudes and behaviors. Networks increase in importance and therefore the influence of the relation between members and networks can be explained by these theories.
The theory operates on the premise that much, if not all, of human behavior can be attributed to the subjective interpretation of one’s environment, which contains symbols whose meanings are derived from social interaction. Words, objects, people and even oneself can function as symbols. According to the theory, meaning is not inherent in objects, but is, instead, constructed and modified within different contexts through social interaction. The uniquely human ability to interpret symbols and analyze another person’s viewpoint through thinking allows meaning to emerge.
This theory says how humans develop a complex set of symbols that gives meaning to the world in their perspective. The meanings are molded from the interactions with the society. And these interactions are subjectively interpreted by them to suit the meaning in accordance with the existing symbols. The basic idea this theory put forward is that people behave based on the meaning they have given to them. THEORY. “Symbolic Interactionism is the way we learn to interpret and give meaning to the world through our interactions with others.”- Scott Plunkett.
Symbolism. DESCRIPTION. Symbolism is a language or form of communication used to convey meaning through the use of symbols-whether that be through imagery, ideas, sound, or metaphor by way of association. As such, all languages are symbolic. 
Semiotics explained. Semiotics is an investigation into how meaning is created and how meaning is communicated. Its origins lie in the academic study of how signs and symbols (visual and linguistic) create meaning.
Symbolic Interactionism. all communication is symbolic and based upon interaction and meaning. History and Orientation. Symbolic Interactionism, formulated by Blumer (1969) is the process of interaction in the formation of meanings for individuals. The inspiration for this theory came from Dewey (1981), which believed that human beings are best understood in a practical, interactive relation to their environment