1 Acute worsening of chronic bronchitis treatment -- one Bactrim DS or two regular-strength Bactrim tablets every 12 hours for 14 days. 2  Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia treatment -- dosage based on weight, taken every 6 hours for 14 to 21 days. 3  Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia prevention -- one Bactrim DS tablet once daily. Dosage of Bactrim: An Introduction. The dose of Bactrim 速 (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: 1  The type of infection and bacteria. 2  Your height and weight (for some uses).
The recommended dosing for adults with normal kidney function is as follows: 1  Urinary tract infection (UTI) treatment -- one Bactrim DS or two regular-strength Bactrim tablets every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. Dosage of Bactrim: An Introduction. The dose of Bactrim 速 (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: 1  The type of infection and bacteria. 2  Your height and weight (for some uses).
1 Urinary tract infection (UTI) treatment -- one Bactrim DS or two regular-strength Bactrim tablets every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. 2  Shigellosis or traveler's diarrhea treatment -- one Bactrim DS or two regular-strength Bactrim tablets every 12 hours for 5 days. Dosage of Bactrim: An Introduction. The dose of Bactrim 速 (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: 1  The type of infection and bacteria. 2  Your height and weight (for some uses).
The recommended Bactrim dosage for treating a urinary tract infection is one double-strength or two regular-strength tablets every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. Dosage of Bactrim: An Introduction. The dose of Bactrim 速 (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: 1  The type of infection and bacteria. 2  Your height and weight (for some uses).
Bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) DS is a combination of two antibiotics, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Bactrim is available as a generic drug under assorted names (for example, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, co-trimoxazole). Bactrim is used to treat urinary tract infections, acute otitis media, bronchitis, Shigellosis, Pneumocystis pneumonia, traveler's diarrhea, methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and other bacterial infections susceptible to this antibiotic.
A three-day course of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX; Bactrim, Septra) is recommended as empiric therapy of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (UTIs) in women, in areas where the rate of resistance Escherichia coli are less than 20 percent. A study 11 comparing a three-day course of ciprofloxacin (Cipro) 100 mg twice daily, ofloxacin (Floxin) 200 mg twice daily, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX; Bactrim, Septra) 160/800 mg twice daily, found that all three had comparable efficacy in managing uncomplicated UTI.
This medication is a combination of two antibiotics: sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. It is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections (such as middle ear, urine, respiratory, and intestinal infections). It is also used to prevent and treat a certain type of pneumonia (pneumocystis-type). Precautions. Before taking sulfamethoxazole with trimethoprim, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to sulfa medications or trimethoprim; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Bactrim is also sometimes prescribed for other types of bacterial pneumonia, for acne, and for preventing urinary tract infections. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved Bactrim in 1973. The drug is made by Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. Pregnancy and Bactrim. Bactrim may harm a developing fetus. The drug has a warning that if you take it when you're pregnant, it can cause such birth defects as urinary tract defects, cleft lip or palate, or club feet. Before taking Bactrim, tell your doctor if you are pregnant or may get pregnant.
Bactrim Dosage. Bactrim tablets are white and round and contain 80 milligrams (mg) of trimethoprim and 400 mg of sulfamethoxazole. Bactrim DS tablets are white and oval, containing 160 mg of trimethoprim and 800 mg of sulfamethoxazole. Pregnancy and Bactrim. Bactrim may harm a developing fetus. The drug has a warning that if you take it when you're pregnant, it can cause such birth defects as urinary tract defects, cleft lip or palate, or club feet. Before taking Bactrim, tell your doctor if you are pregnant or may get pregnant.