/ 0 comments. Natural phenomena are occurrences that take place in the nature and due to natural reasons. These are not in control of humans and are bound to happen. Some of the very common natural phenomena are death, birth, aging, natural calamities, rains, decaying, erosion, etc. While normal clouds itself is a natural phenomenon, there are several different forms of clouds observed in different parts of the world. Mammatus clouds ]have pouches at the bottom and are breast-shaped clouds. Altocumulus clouds is a thin sheet of clouds formed in waves, bands, or patches
Noun. 1. natural phenomenon-all phenomena that are not artificial. phenomenon-any state or process known through the senses rather than by intuition or reasoning. chemical phenomenon-any natural phenomenon involving chemistry (as changes to atoms or molecules). 
· just now. Report Abuse. A natural phenomenon is a non-artificial event in the physical sense, and therefore not produced by humans, although it may affect humans (e.g. bacteria, aging, natural disasters, death.) Common examples of natural phenomena include volcanic eruptions, weather, and decay. There are various types of natural phenomena, which include (and are not limited to), Meteorlogical phenomena, weather, including hurricanes, thunderstorms and tornadoes, and geological phenomena, including volcanic activity and earthquakes. Source(s): natural phenomenon, wikipedia. sapper_pointman · 6 years ago.
Noun. 1. natural phenomenon-all phenomena that are not artificial. phenomenon-any state or process known through the senses rather than by intuition or reasoning. chemical phenomenon-any natural phenomenon involving chemistry (as changes to atoms or molecules). geological phenomenon-a natural phenomenon involving the structure or composition of the earth. organic phenomenon - (biology) a natural phenomenon involving living plants and animals. physical phenomenon-a natural phenomenon involving the physical properties of matter and energy.
Inspiration. Photographing  natural phenomena  is not every photographers cup of tea. Natural phenomena, are occurrences which are not influenced by humans, but can have disastrous effects on mankind. But sometimes even some of the most deadly and disastrous phenomena of nature become a true feast for the eyes when captured by some extremely talented and passionate photographers.
• NATURAL PHENOMENON (noun). The noun NATURAL PHENOMENON has 1 sense: 1. all phenomena that are not artificial. Familiarity information: NATURAL PHENOMENON used as a noun is very rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of natural phenomenon): chemical phenomenon (any natural phenomenon involving chemistry (as changes to atoms or molecules)). geological phenomenon (a natural phenomenon involving the structure or composition of the earth).
Natural phenomenon. A natural phenomenon is not an engineered event manufactured by humans, although it may affect them. Common examples of natural phenomena include sunrise, the weather, decomposition, free fall and erosion. 
Hypernyms (natural phenomenon is a kind of...): phenomenon (any state or process known through the senses rather than by intuition or reasoning). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of natural phenomenon): chemical phenomenon (any natural phenomenon involving chemistry (as changes to atoms or molecules)). geological phenomenon (a natural phenomenon involving the structure or composition of the earth).