These shift delays can occur when you first shift the transmission into a gear and when the transmission is shifting between gears. No Downshift(s): When the shift solenoids are function properly, the transmission automatically downshifts as the vehicle speed slows. TRANSMISSION TORQUE CONVERTER CLUTCH SOLENOID. DESCRIPTION of a Transmission Torque Converter Clutch Solenoid Automatic transmissions must slip to allow the vehicle to come to a stop without stalling the engine. But at highway speeds, slipping is neither needed or desired.
Best Answer: The solenoid pack contains several electrically controlled solenoids that redirect the fluid to the appropriate clutch pack or servo in order to control shifting. Here's a site for diagnosing auto tranny problems........ http://www.aa1car.com/library/2002/bf902... 
Transmission Solenoid: Function & Common Problems. While manual transmissions make use of the clutch to change gears, automatic transmissions rely on a complicated hydraulic system for shifting, and the transmission solenoid is especially important for this process. If the transmission solenoid is energized, the plunger opens and allows fluid to pass while a solenoid that is not receiving power is closed in its normal position. So while the various engine sensors determine when the gears should shift, it is the job of the transmission solenoid to act out the actual shifting.
Function. Automatic transmission solenoid is located inside the transmission. The automatic control solenoid is part of a unit called the solenoid pack that functions like a sensor signaling the engine by adding or alleviating the hydraulic pressure of the system. This allows you to shift between gears smoothly. The transmission is an automotive part located at the back of the engine and allows the vehicle to move based on its ability to shift gears. The shifting of gears is made possible the automatic transmissions solenoid.
Torque Sequence Illustration-. http://i1292.photobucket.com/albums/b... Here is how to remove and replace the solenoid pack for the transmission. The faulty solenoids in this pack cause common problems such as delayed engagement, harsh engagement, no engagement and various other gear shift errors. 
Transmission fluid is directed throughout the valve body by various transmission solenoids– such as the transmission shift solenoid, lockup solenoid, or transmission control solenoid (there’s also a torque converter clutch solenoid) –that either open or close hydraulic valves to regulate fluid flow. If the transmission solenoid is energized, the plunger opens and allows fluid to pass while a solenoid that is not receiving power is closed in its normal position. So while the various engine sensors determine when the gears should shift, it is the job of the transmission solenoid to act out the actual shifting.
The best way to explain what transmission solenoids do is to describe the different solenoids that are used in an automatic transmission. The following describes the solenoids that are used in an automatic transmissions and transaxle along with their purpose (or function). TRANSMISSION TORQUE CONVERTER CLUTCH SOLENOID. DESCRIPTION of a Transmission Torque Converter Clutch Solenoid Automatic transmissions must slip to allow the vehicle to come to a stop without stalling the engine. But at highway speeds, slipping is neither needed or desired.
Removing and replacing the transmission Solenoid Pack w/ pictures. I d had a slow leak from the transmission for several months. Not big enough to worry about, but enough to cause a grimace every time I saw the spots. 
In these instances, you must replace the solenoid pack. REPLACEMENT COST for a Transmission Shift Solenoid The cost for transmission solenoid replacement depends heavily on the type of vehicle you drive. For example, a single transmission shift solenoid can cost anywhere from $15 to $100. TRANSMISSION TORQUE CONVERTER CLUTCH SOLENOID. DESCRIPTION of a Transmission Torque Converter Clutch Solenoid Automatic transmissions must slip to allow the vehicle to come to a stop without stalling the engine. But at highway speeds, slipping is neither needed or desired.