2. The cell membrane, as explained above, is a selectively permeable barrier of ions and molecules that move into and out of the cell. In other words, not all molecules are able to pass through the cell membrane. During the division of the cell, none of the membrane integrity is lost. Structural biochemistry plays a vital role in the functions of an organism's cell through various means, one of them being the organelles in a cell. It is through the structure and functions of living molecules (and some non-living), such as nucleic acids, amino acids, purine, and lipids that life is even possible.
Cell Parts and Organelle Functions -. The cell membrane (or plasma Membrane) is a structure that forms the outer boundary of the cell and allows only certain materials to move into and out of the cell. Food, oxygen and water move into the cell through the membrane. Waste products also leave through the membrane. The cell wall is a rigid structure outside the cell membrane that. supports and protects the cell (for plants, fungi, and some. protists and bacteria). The cell wall is made of tough cellulose fibers and other. materials made by the cell. Note: fungal cell walls contain chitin. instead of cellulose.
Mitochondria   Lysomes, vacuoles, and peroxisomes play a role in the breakdown of substances that are no longer needed by the cell while the mitochondria does not. M … itochondria is used for the production of ATP. 
materials around in the cell. The ER extends from the nucleus to the cell membrane and takes up quite a bit of space in some cells. The ER is like a system of conveyor belts in a business or tunnels. along which materials move from one place to another. The cell wall is a rigid structure outside the cell membrane that. supports and protects the cell (for plants, fungi, and some. protists and bacteria). The cell wall is made of tough cellulose fibers and other. materials made by the cell. Note: fungal cell walls contain chitin. instead of cellulose.
Cell Membrane: boundary of the cell, sometimes called the plasma membrane. Cytoplasm: a water-like substance that fills cells. The cytoplasm consists of cytosol and the cellular organelles, except the cell nucleus. The cytosol is made up of water, salts, organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions. Mitochondria are the organelles that function as the cell powerhouse, generating ATP, the universal form of energy used by all cells. It converts food nutrients such as glucose, to a fuel (ATP) that the cells of the body can use.
It prepares proteins for their specific jobs or functions. Then it packages the proteins into tiny, membrane-bound, ball-like structures called vesicles. Vesicles are organelles that transport substances from one area of a cell to another area of a cell. Cilia are short, hairlike structures. They can move a cell or move molecules away from a cell. A microscopic organism called a paramecium (pa ruh MEE shee um) moves around its watery environment using its cilia. The cilia in your windpipe move harmful substances away from your lungs.
The gel-like material within the cell membrane is referred to as the cytoplasm. It is a fluid matrix, the cytosol, which consists of 80% to 90% water, salts, organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions, along with dissolved substances such as proteins and nutrients. Mitochondria are the organelles that function as the cell powerhouse, generating ATP, the universal form of energy used by all cells. It converts food nutrients such as glucose, to a fuel (ATP) that the cells of the body can use.
Function The Golgi complex takes proteins made by the endoplasmic reticulum and exports them out of the cell as needed. It is able to keep dangerous proteins from damaging the cell which made them. It is like a packaging department ready to deliver the protein products made in the cell. Function Vacuoles are generally used to store cell products or protect the rest of the cell from invading microorganisms. The large central vacuole of plant cells is a special case. It is used to store water and cellular wastes and helps maintain the necessary internal pressure of plants called turgor pressure.
A. is a stiff structure outside the cell membrane. A cell wall protects a cell from attack by viruses and other harmful organisms. In some plant cells and fungal cells, a cell wall helps maintain the cell ’ s shape and gives structural support. Cilia are short, hairlike structures. They can move a cell or move molecules away from a cell. A microscopic organism called a paramecium (pa ruh MEE shee um) moves around its watery environment using its cilia. The cilia in your windpipe move harmful substances away from your lungs.