If more than one egg is released, but only one is fertilized, the unfertilized eggs are absorbed by your body and do not cause you to have a period. The uterine lining that you normally loose during your menstrual cycle is needed for the fertilized egg so it does not slough off. If your ovaries release more than 1 egg but only 1 egg is fertilized then you still will NOT have a period. It simply is not possible to be pregnant and have a period, but it is very possible to be pregnant, have abnormal bleeding that the woman mistakes for her period. jilldaniel_wv · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Best Answer: It depends on your cycle. It is usually released midway through your cycle, so if you get your period every 30 days, you will ovulation (your egg will be released) around the 14th or 15th day following your period. Source(s): Umma K · 8 years ago.
During the menstrual years, a woman will only release about 300 eggs. While each menstrual cycle usually sees the ovaries releasing one egg, what many women may not realize, though, is that their body actually prepares about 20 immature eggs every month for release. The first day of your menstrual cycle is the first day of your period. At this time, your estrogen levels are at their lowest which sends a signal to your brain that more FSH is needed. As your body produces more FSH, about 20 egg follicles begin to mature.
Ovulation is the name of the process that happens once in every menstrual cycle when hormone changes trigger your ovaries to release an egg. This usually happens 12 to 16 days before your next period starts. 1  The eggs are contained in your ovaries. The First Day of Your Cycle. The first day of your menstrual cycle is the first day of your period. The period usually then lasts anywhere from 3 to 7 days. You‘ll probably find that if you get any period pains, they‘ll be at their worst on
Most women learn in health class that every month their ovaries will release an egg, which will travel down a fallopian tube. A fertilized egg will most likely result in pregnancy, while an unfertilized one will lead to your period, called menstruation or menses. The first day of your menstrual cycle is the first day of your period. At this time, your estrogen levels are at their lowest which sends a signal to your brain that more FSH is needed. As your body produces more FSH, about 20 egg follicles begin to mature.
If you were to release two eggs while ovulating and were fertilized and it implanted, you would be as likely to have a period as if you only released one egg that was fertilized and implanted. What brings on your period is the fall in progesterone when the corpus luteum (the old follicle) stops releasing progesterone. If your ovaries release more than 1 egg but only 1 egg is fertilized then you still will NOT have a period. It simply is not possible to be pregnant and have a period, but it is very possible to be pregnant, have abnormal bleeding that the woman mistakes for her period. jilldaniel_wv · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
For most women, between each period is a time spam of 28 days roughly. Yours could be shorter or longer. 14 days before your expected period you ovulate (release and egg). This is known to be the best time for trying for a baby because the egg is ready to be fertilized. If the egg isn't fertilized you will have your period 14 days later. So the answer to your question is before. 
You'll start to notice signs that you're fertile about five days before you ovulate. Ovulation usually occurs between 12 and 14 days before your period starts (Fehring et al 2006) . This is an average, so it could be a couple of days earlier or later. For example, say you have a regular 28-day menstrual cycle. Ovulation is when one or more eggs are released from one of your ovaries. This happens toward the end of the time you're fertile between periods. Each month, between 15 and 20 eggs mature inside your ovaries. The ripest egg is released and swept into one of your fallopian tubes