Bish. Bish is the second album by singer/songwriter Stephen Bishop. It includes one single, Everybody Needs Love, which peaked at No. 32 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart. The album itself rose to No. 35 on the Billboard pop albums chart
The Mitsubishi Group (三菱グループ, Mitsubishi Gurūpu) (also known as the Mitsubishi Group of Companies or Mitsubishi Companies) is a group of autonomous Japanese multinational companies covering a range of businesses which share the Mitsubishi brand, trademark, and legacy. The name Mitsubishi (三 菱) consists of two parts:  mitsu  meaning three and  hishi  (which becomes  bishi  under rendaku) meaning  water caltrop  (also called water chestnut), and hence  rhombus , which is reflected in the company's logo. It is also translated as three diamonds
Bishōnen (美少年, also transliterated bishounen (help·info)) is a Japanese term literally meaning beautiful youth (boy) and describes an aesthetic that can be found in disparate areas in East Asia: a young man whose beauty (and sexual appeal) transcends the boundary of gender or sexual orientation. Some non-Japanese, especially American, anime and manga fans use the term to refer to any handsome male character regardless of age, or any homosexual character. In the original Japanese, however, bishōnen applies only to boys under 18. For those older, the word bidanshi (美男子, literally handsome man) is used.
Mitsubishi is the Japanese words for three diamonds. The name Mitsubishi (三菱) has two parts: mitsu meaning three and hishi (which becomes bishi in the middle of a word) meaning water caltrop (also called water chestnut), and hence rhombus, which is reflected in the company's famous logo. The symbol the automaker Mitsubishi is using as its symbol is called the Triceps. The Triceps is an uncommen version of the symbol called Valknut. Valknut is an old Norse … occultic symbol. The Valknut found on old Norse stonecarvings is called Hrungnir's heart, after the legendary giant of the Eddas
The Mitsubishi group of companies form a loose entity, the Mitsubishi Keiretsu, which is often referenced in Japanese and US media and official reports; in general these companies all descend from the zaibatsu of the same name. The name Mitsubishi (三 菱) consists of two parts:  mitsu  meaning three and  hishi  (which becomes  bishi  under rendaku) meaning  water caltrop  (also called water chestnut), and hence  rhombus , which is reflected in the company's logo. It is also translated as three diamonds
Etymology of the name Ishi I. The name Ishi is identical to the phrase 'my husband' (literally 'my man') as used in Genesis 29:32 (and on), 2 Samuel 14:5 and 2 Kings 4:1, and that's because the word איש ('ish) is one of a few words for man: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. There's only a small difference between the words אישי (ishi) and בעלי (ba'ali) as both are used to mean my husband. But (ba'ali) is more an authoritative title; it may also mean my master or my lord.
Soft and loving term for bitch. A very good friend that you have known for an extremely long time; she's like a sister, but has the tendency to be a bitch at times. Despite her bitchiness, you love her anyway. Amy has been my bish since we were in high school