This Guide is intended to help a physician choose the appropriate cystic fibrosis (CF) test for his/her patient. It includes algorithms that assist in test selection for CF carrier screening (Figure 1) and CF diagnosis (Figure 2). 
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease which causes mucus in the lungs to be more sticky than normal, leading to frequent lung infections and lung damage. Pneumococcus is a type of bacteria that can cause infection throughout the body, including in the urine, blood stream, fluid around the brain and in the lungs. 
Different people may have different degrees of symptoms. CF is an autosomal recessive disorder. It is caused by the presence of mutations in both copies of the gene for the protein cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Those with a single working copy are carriers and otherwise mostly normal. The main signs and symptoms of cystic fibrosis are salty-tasting skin, poor growth, and poor weight gain despite normal food intake, accumulation of thick, sticky mucus, frequent chest infections, and coughing or shortness of breath. Males can be infertile due to congenital absence of the vas deferens.
The gene can be easily detected in parents with the help of some tests. Tests that can be used to detect cystic fibrosis include: 1  Amniocentesis: During pregnancy, the condition can be tested by way of amniocentesis. 2  Blood tests: Testing the mother’s blood samples can show markers indicating cystic fibrosis. The common symptoms that a child with cystic fibrosis experiences includes: 1  pancreatic deficiencies. 2  recurrent pneumonia. 3  chronic lung disease. 4  stomach pain and distended abdomen. 5  difficulty gaining weight.
Detection Of Cystic Fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis can only be passed on to a child if both parents have a defective gene. One in 29 Caucasian Americans carry the trait, and the gene is detectable in 60 to 90% of carriers, depending on the type of test used. Parents can be easily tested to see if they carry the gene. Symptoms Of A Child With Cystic Fibrosis. Many children with cystic fibrosis suffer from these symptoms: 1  Chronic lung disease, caused by continuing infections. 2  Pancreatic deficiencies. 3  Belly pain and distended abdomen.
Cystic fibrosis (CF), also known as mucoviscidosis, is a genetic disorder that affects mostly the lungs but also the pancreas, liver, kidneys and intestine. The main signs and symptoms of cystic fibrosis are salty-tasting skin, poor growth, and poor weight gain despite normal food intake, accumulation of thick, sticky mucus, frequent chest infections, and coughing or shortness of breath. Males can be infertile due to congenital absence of the vas deferens.
Cystic Fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease usually characterized by lung problems, which limit the lifespan on average to 30 to 40 years. The body generates abnormally thick mucus, which clogs the pancreas (which helps to break up and absorb food) and the lungs. Symptoms Of A Child With Cystic Fibrosis. Many children with cystic fibrosis suffer from these symptoms: 1  Chronic lung disease, caused by continuing infections. 2  Pancreatic deficiencies. 3  Belly pain and distended abdomen.
Cystic Fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a progressive, lifelong condition in which the glands that produce mucus, sweat, and intestinal secretions do not function properly. Thick mucus accumulates in the lungs, leading to breathing difficulty and infection. While some babies with CF still die in infancy, many patients with CF live into their 20s and 30s. Because Cystic Fibrosis affects all ethnic groups and is one of the most common recessive genetic diseases, screening is available to anyone planning a pregnancy.
1 Genetic tests to find out what type of CFTR defect is causing your CF. 2  A chest x ray. 3  This test creates pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. 4  A chest x ray can show whether your lungs are inflamed or scarred, or whether they trap air. If a genetic test or blood test suggests CF, a doctor will confirm the diagnosis using a sweat test. This test is the most useful test for diagnosing CF. A sweat test measures the amount of salt in sweat. For this test, the doctor triggers sweating on a small patch of skin on an arm or leg.
Cystic Fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disorder characterized by lung problems that can limit a person’s lifespan to about 30-40 years. The baby is born with overactive mucus glands, and the abnormal or overactive mucus secretions result in difficulty breathing and eventually tissue and organ damage. The common symptoms that a child with cystic fibrosis experiences includes: 1  pancreatic deficiencies. 2  recurrent pneumonia. 3  chronic lung disease. 4  stomach pain and distended abdomen. 5  difficulty gaining weight.