Vinegar has a low pH, which means that it is highly acidic, similar to your stomach acid. If you add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to your meal and your symptoms of indigestion decrease, it is likely that you have low stomach acid.. Source(s): Google.... Vinegar is acidic, it contains ethanoic acid (aka acetic acid) I don't know why the article says As a highly basic substance, vinegar balances out the pH in your system by neutralizing the overly acidic environment of heartburn..
Vinegar is acidic, it's key component is acetic acid. You get heartburn because you have too high a concentration of acid in your stomach and you get a little reflux that travels up your digestive system. The best way to combat this is with something like Tums, which has calcium carbonate in it. Vinegar is acidic, it contains ethanoic acid (aka acetic acid) I don't know why the article says As a highly basic substance, vinegar balances out the pH in your system by neutralizing the overly acidic environment of heartburn..
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Vinegar is a weak acid, but when compared to the acidic environment of the stomach is more basic than stomach environment. The pH of the human stomach is around 1, it is gets lower than that, heartburn and in the long run, ulcers, will be the result. Vinegar is acidic, it contains ethanoic acid (aka acetic acid) I don't know why the article says As a highly basic substance, vinegar balances out the pH in your system by neutralizing the overly acidic environment of heartburn..
Vinegar is a liquid consisting mainly of acetic acid (CH 3 COOH) and water. The acetic acid is produced by the fermentation of ethanol by acetic acid bacteria. Vinegar is now mainly used as a cooking ingredient. White vinegar is often used as a household cleaning agent. Because it is acidic, it can dissolve mineral deposits from glass, coffee makers, and other smooth surfaces. For most uses, dilution with water is recommended for safety and to avoid damaging the surfaces being cleaned.
1 Apple cider vinegar is highly acidic. 2  The main ingredient is acetic acid, which is quite harsh. 3  You should always dilute it with water or juice before swallowing. 4  Pure, straight apple cider vinegar could damage your tooth enamel or the tissues of your mouth and throat. 
Even though vinegar is acidic, when we take apple cider vinegar it has an alkaline effect in our bodies. The fact that apple cider vinegar causes our pH levels to become more alkaline could play a large part in it’s curative properties. There was at least one study done on the effects of apple cider vinegar which used acetic acid – the acid component of vinegars. Now, I’d argue that apple cider vinegar is more than just acetic acid. In fact, apple cider vinegar consists of both malic acid and acetic acid. Being made from apples it would also contain pectin, as well as potassium, which promotes cell and tissue growth
Best Answer: Vinegar is a weak acid, but when compared to the acidic environment of the stomach is more basic than stomach environment. Vinegar is acidic, it contains ethanoic acid (aka acetic acid) I don't know why the article says As a highly basic substance, vinegar balances out the pH in your system by neutralizing the overly acidic environment of heartburn..
Vinegar is not the same thing as citric acid; vinegar is acetic acid. Acetic acid and citric acid are both weak acids, but citric acid is slightly more acidic. 5 people found this useful. Edit. No Coke is not more acetic than vinegar because of the acid they contain. Vinegar has an acid called acetic acid that is a lot more powerful than the acid Coke contains which … only effects the enamel on your teeth. So there you have it! Really you!