-- Anonymous User 5/4/2006. My name's Atasha--a form of Natasha. It's kind of ironic for me because 'Natasha' means born on Christmas, when in fact, I was born in the dead center of the summer--August 8th. Needless to say, I do not have red hair and blue-green eyes. It would look terrible on me if I did, seeing as I am of Indian (India) origin
For example, in the name Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin, Boris is the given name, Nikolayevich the patronymic (his father's name is Nikolay) and Yeltsin is the family name. Given names often have a basis in the Russian Orthodox church or Slavic culture. Natasha is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Na-ta-sha. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 644 in baby name popularity for girls with 439 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
the Islamic meaning of Natasha is 'gift of Allah(god)'  I have seen this stated elsewhere, but it is not originally a Muslim name. It is from Russian, and is a pet form of … the name Natalia, Like Masha from Maria, Sasha from Alexander, etc. It was originally given to babies born at Christmas (Latin Natalis) from which the English word Nativity comes.
The name Natasha is of Russian origin, and it means Born on Christmas Day . It's a name commonly given to girls. Natasha Richardson is an actress with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1968 to 2009. 
Natasha in Nautical Flags. Russian names generally consist of three names. A given name, a patronymic name and a family name. A patronymic name is based on the name of one's father, grandfather, or earlier male ancestor. Russian male patronymic names are formed by adding the suffex-evich or-ovich, female patronymic names by adding the suffex-ovna or-evna. Natasha is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Na-ta-sha. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 644 in baby name popularity for girls with 439 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
Nastasha in Nautical Flags. Russian names generally consist of three names. A given name, a patronymic name and a family name. A patronymic name is based on the name of one's father, grandfather, or earlier male ancestor. 
Greek Meaning: The name Natasha is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Natasha is: Born at Christmas. Russian Meaning: The name Natasha is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Natasha is: Born at Christmas. American Meaning: The name Natasha is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Natasha is: Born at Christmas. Latin Meaning: The name Natasha is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Natasha is: Bom at Christmas. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.
Natasha (Russian: ната́ша) is a name of Russian origin. The name is the diminutive form of Natalia, which in turn derives from the Latin Dies Natalies, meaning Natal Day or Birthday in reference to the traditional birth of Jesus.