These boosters are recommended five years after the first meningitis vaccination and then every five years thereafter if vaccinated after age 7. If vaccinated between ages 2 and 7, the first booster should be given three years after the initial vaccine and then every five years. If your kids were 11 or 12 years old when they were first vaccinated against meningitis, they may need a booster shot in their teens.
Yes! Since the meningitis vaccine is thought to be effective for only about five years, you’ll need a booster vaccine about 4- 5 years after you got your first (meningococcal) vaccine. If you were 11 or 12 years old when you were vaccinated (against meningococcal disease), you should have a booster vaccine when you are 16. If you missed your vaccine when you were a preteen, it’s not too late to get vaccinated. 
Meningococcal disease is a serious illness caused by a bacteria. It can cause meningitis, which is an infection of the brain and spinal cord, and it can also cause blood infections. About 2,600 people get the disease each year in the U.S. And up to one out of seven (10-14%) of those who get the disease will die. The vaccine is recommended for all college freshmen who live in a dormitory. The vaccine has also been recommended for 11 – 12 year olds since 2005, so it is possible that incoming freshmen may have already received a dose. If you received a dose before age 16, you should get a booster before you go to college.
I received the meningitis vaccination 4 years ago so I was wondering when I would need to receive it again. I work at a hospital so I would say that I'm in a high-risk group. Thanks. Follow. • If previous vaccine was MPSV4, revaccinate after 5yrs if risk continues. •Revaccination after MCV4 is not recommended. •MCV4 is preferred over MPSV4 for persons age 55yrs and younger, although MPSV4 is an acceptable alternative. So, it would depend on what meningitis vaccine you received four years ago.
All 11–12 year olds should be vaccinated with a quadrivalent (protects against serogroups A, C, W, and Y) meningococcal conjugate vaccine (Menactra® or Menveo®). A booster dose is recommended at age 16 years. For teens who receive the first dose at age 13 through 15 years, a booster dose should be administered, preferably at age 16 through 18 years, before the period of increased risk. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
Of the 1,000-2,600 people who get meningococcal disease each year, one-third are teens and young adults. Ten percent to 15% of those who get sick with the disease will die, even with antibiotic treatment. As many as 20% will have permanent side effects, such as hearing loss or brain damage. MPSV4 and MCV4 can prevent four types of meningococcal disease, which make up about 70% of the cases in the U.S. The MenB vaccines prevent the Meningococcal B strain. MCV4 is preferred for people age 55 and younger. The recommendation for teens is one dose at age 11 and one dose at age 16.
Best Answer: According to the CDC website: • One dose of the meningitis vaccine is needed. • If previous vaccine was MPSV4, revaccinate after 5yrs if risk continues. •Revaccination after MCV4 is not recommended. •MCV4 is preferred over MPSV4 for persons age 55yrs and younger, although MPSV4 is an acceptable alternative. So, it would depend on what meningitis vaccine you received four years ago.
Teens age 16 through 18 years can get the booster dose at any time. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
“At the moment, this is a one-dose immunization, but the CDC is now discussing whether children who receive the vaccine at 11 or 12 years old need a booster shot just before college. The HPV vaccine effectively prevents infection with the HPV types responsible for most cervical cancers and can also prevent genital warts. HPV vaccination is most effective during childhood or adolescence, but adults can also benefit from the HPV vaccine.
When quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine was first recommended for preteens and teens in 2005, the expectation was that protection would last for 10 years; however, currently available data suggest protection declines in most teens within 5 years. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.