1 Open Stored Packages and right click MSDB. 2  Select Import Package..., set the Server to the source instance (MSDB where the package resides). 3  Click button for Package path: and select the package from the list. 4  Set the Protection level if applicable or leave the default. 5  Click OK. Do the following: 1  Connect to the new server SSIS through SSMS. 2  Open Stored Packages and right click MSDB. 3  Select Import Package..., set the Server to the source instance (MSDB where the package resides).
1 Connect to the new server SSIS through SSMS. 2  Open Stored Packages and right click MSDB. 3  Select Import Package..., set the Server to the source instance (MSDB where the package resides). 4  Click button for Package path: and select the package from the list. 5  Set the Protection level if applicable or leave the default. Do the following: 1  Connect to the new server SSIS through SSMS. 2  Open Stored Packages and right click MSDB. 3  Select Import Package..., set the Server to the source instance (MSDB where the package resides).
What we would like to see is two MSDB nodes-one for SSIS packages stored in the MSDB database of the default SQL Server instance and a second one for SSIS packages stored in the MSDB database of the named SQL Server instance. To import the SamplePackage from the MSDB database in the default instance of SQL Server to the SQL2008R2 instance, right click on SQL2008R2 in the Object Explorer and select Import Package; fill in the dialog as shown below:
up vote 1 down vote. Do the following: 1  Connect to the new server SSIS through SSMS. 2  Open Stored Packages and right click MSDB. 3  Select Import Package..., set the Server to the source instance (MSDB where the package resides). 4  Click button for Package path: and select the package from the list. Do the following: 1  Connect to the new server SSIS through SSMS. 2  Open Stored Packages and right click MSDB. 3  Select Import Package..., set the Server to the source instance (MSDB where the package resides)
Background. Recently I had to deploy a set of SSIS packages stored in the msdb of a development server into a test server. I should mention that a SSIS package could be stored in the file system, in a package store or in the msdb database of a SQL Server instance. The Task. The task to perform is to move all of the SSIS packages stored in this folder to a test server with similar settings (SQL server Database running on Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise).
The purpose of the stored procedure I am sharing is to move SSIS packages stored via SQL Server Storage from one server SQL 2005 server to another in a way that can easily be invoked by any release management system that can call stored procedures. The part I have reservations about is that it uses linked servers. 
Next Steps. 1  Keep in mind that when you use DTEXEC to execute SSIS packages deployed to a named instance of SQL Server, you need to specify the /Server option with the server name and instance name. 2  Without the /Server option DTEXEC will try to load the SSIS package from the default instance on the local server. To import the SamplePackage from the MSDB database in the default instance of SQL Server to the SQL2008R2 instance, right click on SQL2008R2 in the Object Explorer and select Import Package; fill in the dialog as shown below:
1 Keep in mind that when you use DTEXEC to execute SSIS packages deployed to a named instance of SQL Server, you need to specify the /Server option with the server name and instance name. To import the SamplePackage from the MSDB database in the default instance of SQL Server to the SQL2008R2 instance, right click on SQL2008R2 in the Object Explorer and select Import Package; fill in the dialog as shown below:
How Can I move a lot of linked SSIS Packages (i.e. one parent SSIS Package, executing or calling different SSIS packages) all stored in a folder in MSDB on SQL Server 2008 to a SQL Server 2012 SSIS Catalog database. The Task. The task to perform is to move all of the SSIS packages stored in this folder to a test server with similar settings (SQL server Database running on Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise).