1 Season the steak with salt and pepper or seasoning to preference. 2  Preheat the gas grill on high (500 –600 degrees). 3  It's very important to have the temperature right to grill a steak properly. 4  Place steaks on very hot grill and close lid. 1 Preheat the gas grill on high (500 –600 degrees). 2  It's very important to have the temperature right to grill a steak properly. 3  Place steaks on very hot grill and close lid. 4  This will help the sirloin cook from all angles and sear in the juices. 5  Grill the steak with lid down for 4-5 minutes depending on thickness
For a rare steak on the grill, cook the steak to an internal temperature of 135 degrees Fahrenheit. The internal temperatures for rare steaks are below USDA recommendations and are not considered safe. Well Done. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit. To reach this internal temperature, you need to leave the steak on the grill for 4 to 5 minutes per side for a 1-inch steak or 8 to 9 minutes for a steak measuring 1 3/4 inches. Leave the steak on the grill for an extended period of time, only flipping the steak once after 5 minutes of grilling
Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes.
Lay the steak away from direct flames; as the steak cooks, fat will drip down and cause the flames to jump up and burn the steak. Cook the steak for 2 to 3 minutes, depending on how you like it cooked, and then rotate the steak 45 degrees and cook another 2 to 3 minutes to give the steak diamond-patterned sear marks. Turn your grill on high and close the lid. Allow it to heat up for 20-30 minutes. While it is heating up, get your steaks out and allow them to warm up to room temperature.
1 Once grill is preheated clean the grill with a grill brush to remove residue. 2  Add some oil to a paper towel and using tongs oil the hot grill by rubbing paper towel and oil across the bars of the grill. ( 3 This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 4  Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 1 Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 2  Cooked uncovered for approximately 8 minutes. 3  Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 4  To test remove a steak from direct heat and insert a meat thermometer into the middle of the steak.
Directions. About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes.
Medium. To prepare a medium steak on the grill, cook to an internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit. When you press the steak, it should feel slightly firm with a pink center and a grayish burn on the outside. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Well Done. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit. To reach this internal temperature, you need to leave the steak on the grill for 4 to 5 minutes per side for a 1-inch steak or 8 to 9 minutes for a steak measuring 1 3/4 inches. Leave the steak on the grill for an extended period of time, only flipping the steak once after 5 minutes of grilling