Abstract. Meristems refer to a group of undifferentiated dividing cells that are responsible for the formation of plant organs. Floral meristems are a group of dividing cells that give rise to flowers. The formation of a floral meristem and its subsequent fate are under both environmental and molecular control
A meristem is the tissue in most plants containing undifferentiated cells (meristematic cells), found in zones of the plant where growth can take place. Meristematic cells give rise to various organs of the plant and keep the plant growing. These secondary meristems are also known as lateral meristems because they are involved in lateral growth. At the meristem summit, there is a small group of slowly dividing cells, which is commonly called the central zone.
Definition of MERISTEM. : a formative plant tissue usually made up of small cells capable of dividing indefinitely and giving rise to similar cells or to cells that differentiate to produce the definitive tissues and organs. 
Apical meristems are found in two locations: the root and the stem. Some arctic plants have a apical meristem in the lower/middle parts of the plant. It is thought that this kind of meristem evolved because it is advantageous in arctic conditions. Apical meristems are the completely undifferentiated (indeterminate) meristems in a plant. These differentiate into three kinds of primary meristems. The primary meristems in turn produce the two secondary meristem types. These secondary meristems are also known as lateral meristems because they are involved in lateral growth. At the meristem summit there is a small group of slowly dividing cells which is commonly called the central zone
Abstract. Radial growth of plants is the result of activity of the lateral meristems. These meristems, known as the vascular and cork cambiums, are active in areas of the plant where primary growth has ceased and are therefore referred to as secondary meristems. The lateral meristems encircle the body of the plant. 
meristem. (mĕr`istĕm') , a specialized section of plant tissue characterized by cell division and growth. Much of the mature plant's growth is provided by meristems. Apical meristems found at the tips of stems and roots increase the length of these sections. Meristem. formative tissue, a plant tissue characterized by prolonged cell-division activity. Some cells of the meristem—the initiating cells—remain in the embryonic phase of development and, by dividing, provide uninterrupted growth of the plant body.
The apical meristem, or growing tip, is a completely undifferentiated meristematic tissue found in the buds and growing tips of roots in plants. Its main function is to begin growth of new cells in young seedlings at the tips of roots and shoots (forming buds, among other things). Apical meristems are the completely undifferentiated (indeterminate) meristems in a plant. These differentiate into three kinds of primary meristems. The primary meristems in turn produce the two secondary meristem types. These secondary meristems are also known as lateral meristems because they are involved in lateral growth. At the meristem summit there is a small group of slowly dividing cells which is commonly called the central zone
Apical meristems are the completely undifferentiated (indeterminate) meristems in a plant. These differentiate into three kinds of primary meristems. The primary meristems in turn produce the two secondary meristem types. These secondary meristems are also known as lateral meristems because they are involved in lateral growth. At the meristem summit, there is a small group of slowly dividing cells, which is commonly called the central zone. Cells of this zone have a stem cell function and are essential for meristem maintenance
Plant tissue whose cells actively divide to produce new tissues that cause the plant to grow. The cells of the meristem are not specialized but can become specialized to form the tissues of roots, leaves, and other plant parts. The growing tips of roots and stems and the tissue layer known as cambium are part of a plant's meristem. 