Best Answer: the top number is your systolic pressure. Normal is 120. Anything over 135-140 is high and should be treated. The systolic pressure is the moment after your left ventricle pumps out the blood and is the highest pressure in the heart cycle. Report Abuse. The top number of your BP is called systolic and is the pressure when the heart is pumping, measured in mm of mercury. The bottom number is called diastolic and is the pressure maintained when the heart is resting, between beats as it were.
The diastolic blood pressure number or the bottom number indicates the pressure in the arteries when the heart rests between beats. A normal diastolic blood pressure number is 80 or less. A diastolic blood pressure between 80 and 89 is normal but higher than ideal. A normal systolic blood pressure is 120 or below. A systolic blood pressure of 120-139 means you have normal blood pressure that is higher than ideal, or borderline high blood pressure.
Best Answer: The higher (systolic) number represents the pressure when the heart is beating. The lower (diastolic) number represents the pressure when the heart is resting between beats.. Normal is 120/80, the American Heart Association says 120-139/80-89 is considered not high blood pressure. Report Abuse. 120/80 or lower is normal blood pressure 140/90 or higher is high blood pressure 120 and 139 for the top number, or between 80 and 89 for the bottom number is prehypertension Top number means the beats and the bottom number means the secounds So you have 100 beats in 80 secounds. Seems fine too me!
The diastolic blood pressure number or the bottom number indicates the pressure in the arteries when the heart rests between beats. A normal diastolic blood pressure number is less than 80. When your heart beats, it contracts and pushes blood through the arteries to the rest of the body. This force creates pressure on the arteries. This is called systolic blood pressure. A normal systolic blood pressure is below 120. A systolic blood pressure of 120 to 139 means you have prehypertension, or borderline high blood pressure
The first, or top number, is your pressure when your heart beats, called the systolic pressure. The second, or bottom number, measures the force of blood in your arteries while your heart is relaxed (filling with blood between beats). This is called the diastolic pressure. 
Blood pressure is a two-number measurement of your heart's function. The top number is the systolic pressure, or the pressure of the blood within the vessels as your heart con … tracts. The bottom, or diastolic, number is the pressure of blood between the heartbeats, or when your heart rests and refills. The number on top is called the  … systolic pressure.. Systolic Blood Pressure measures the pressure inside your blood vessels at the moment your heart beats. The number on the bottom is your dia
The top number refers to the amount of pressure in your arteries during contraction of your heart muscle; this is called “systolic” pressure. The bottom number refers to your blood pressure when your heart muscle is between beats; this is called “diastolic” pressure. For a normal reading, your blood pressure needs to show a top number that’s lower than 120, and a bottom number that’s lower than 80. When both your systolic and diastolic numbers are in these ranges, then you are considered by the American Heart Association (AHA) to be within the normal range for blood pressure.