And many symptoms of autoimmune diseases are the same for other types of health problems too. This makes it hard for doctors to find out if you really have an autoimmune disease, and which one it might be. But if you are having symptoms that bother you, it's important to find the cause.
A disease in which the immune system attacks the body is called an autoimmune disorder. Autoimmune disorders comprise at least 80 different conditions that together affect 5 to 9 percent of Americans, or between 14 million and 22 million people.
A Dr. Anthony Komaroff, MD, Internal Medicine, answered. Autoimmune disease occurs when the immune system attacks its own body's cells. This happens when components of the adaptive immune response, namely T and B cells, fail to distinguish between self and nonself.. That is, they attack the body's own tissues in the same way they would an invading germ.
1 An autoimmune disorder that causes the body's immune system to attack the bone joints. 2  Reiter's syndrome. 3  An autoimmune disease affecting various body systems in response to a bacterial infection and the body's confusion over the HLA-B27 marker.
Autoimmune diseases occur when the immune system attacks healthy cells in the body. It seems counter-productive for our immune system to attack our own bodies, but scientists think that there is a naturally occurring level of autoimmunity that is going on all the time in humans and other higher animals. When this autoimmunity starts to harm the body it is called an autoimmune disease.
1 Rheumatoid arthritis. 2  An autoimmune disorder that causes the body's immune system to attack the bone joints. 3  Reiter's syndrome. 4  An autoimmune disease affecting various body systems in response to a bacterial infection and the body's confusion over the HLA-B27 marker.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory disease that causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints. It occurs when the immune system, which normally defends the body from invading organisms, turns its attack against the membrane lining