X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Average Senior Business Analyst salaries for job postings nationwide are 57% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. Clicking on 'Top salaries' will provide you with a breakdown of salaries based on industry and location. You can search for jobs within your industry at any time. Alternatively, our browse jobs section allows you to find relevant roles and careers. If you have a particular employer in mind, you should check out our A-Z of employers to see who's hiring right now.
A Senior Business Analyst in Dubai earns an average salary of AED 241,369 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. AED 121,330 - AED 442,785. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Average Senior Business Analyst salaries for job postings in United States are the same as average Senior Business Analyst salaries for job postings nationwide. 
High: The typical high-end salary you can expect for this kind of job, based on last month's job ads. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again based on last month's job ads. You can search for jobs within your industry at any time. Alternatively, our browse jobs section allows you to find relevant roles and careers. If you have a particular employer in mind, you should check out our A-Z of employers to see who's hiring right now.
Senior Analyst Salary. Senior Analyst average salary is $76,660, median salary is $71,750 with a salary range from $34,008 to $950,000. Senior Analyst salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
Average salaries and wages in Dubai and UAE. Table of average wages and salary ranges for jobs in Dubai. Similar pay scales and wages paid in Abu Dhabi companies and jobs (or higher), similar or lower in other emirates. All salary figures are monthly in UAE dirhams (AED) (3.67 dhs = US$1). Actual amount will depend on qualifications, experience, employee nationality, employment history, employer mood, and other random factors. Suggest corrections or additional professions and salary ranges in the UAE salaries forum topic