The state of Georgia provides a $500 HOPE voucher scholarship to successful GA GED candidates, to pay for continuing education. The state provides support for GED testing in Georgia, including free GED classes. The GED testing fee in Georgia is $95 for all five tests, or $19 per test. The GED test can be taken at any of the Georgia Official GED Testing Centers. Georgia GED Testing Eligibility. To qualify for GED testing in Georgia, you must not have graduated from an accredited high school or received a high school equivalency certificate or diploma. You must not be currently enrolled in a regular high school, and you must be at least 16 years of age.
You can get a duplicate copy of GED transcripts or your GED diploma from the Georgia Department of Technical and Adult Education if you took your GED Test in Georgia. Copies of your GED transcripts cost $5.00, and copies of your GA GED diploma cost $8. Georgia GED Testing Eligibility. To qualify for GED testing in Georgia, you must not have graduated from an accredited high school or received a high school equivalency certificate or diploma. You must not be currently enrolled in a regular high school, and you must be at least 16 years of age.
GED Testing Service offers a discounted retake program for all GED ® test-takers. According to the program’s policy, you are eligible for: 1  Two discounted retakes for each subject area taken. 2  GED Testing Service fees are waived every retake ($20 per subject area test). Some states allow people who don’t live there to take the GED ® test and others don’t. You’ll need to check the residency requirement for the state that you’re interested to test in. Georgia doesn’t have a residency requirement, so they’ll allow you to take the GED ® test there.
Georgia residents who pass the GED tests receive a $500 HOPE voucher to help pay for their expenses at an eligible Georgia postsecondary institution. The HOPE grant, which is separate from the voucher, will pay for most of the state technical college tuition. The GED testing fee increase for Georgia adult learners had to be formally approved by the state board of the Technical College System of Georgia, which oversees the state’s Office of Adult Education.
The only charge involved in getting your GED ® is the cost of taking the actual GED ® test. That is a fee of $160. However, many Adult Education Centers offer scholarships so that part or all of the $160 fee is paid for you. Contact your local area Adult Education Center to learn more about classes and assessments. 
Click here or call 404-225-4433 or email at adulted@atlantatech.edu. How much does it cost to take the GED test? Each subject area test costs $40, and the cost for the entire battery of all four tests is $160. For the first time in 70 years, the GED® test is offered on computer and you will enjoy the benefits of it: 1  24/7 online registration and scheduling. 2  Test at your own pace. 3  Instant score report.
In the state of Georgia, the testing fee is set at $40 for each subject-area test. While the GED is not offered online, there are 37 testing centers located throughout the state, which can be found through the TCSG website. After the third attempt, there is a 60-day waiting period to retake the GED test. The fee in Georgia to retake the test is $20 (if taken within 12 calendar months) for the first two retakes. Additional retakes will cost $40 for each subject-area test. Show me 10 popular schools.
The cost varies from state to state. The average is $40 per test, but check with the test center about scholarships or fee waivers. The fee is a pretty good investment when you consider that GED grads make about $500,000 more in their lifetime. 
This rule changes based on which state you’re taking the test. In Georgia, you can be 16 or 17 and take the GED ® test if you have the following exception: 1  16 and 17 year olds must enroll in a state-approved adult education program and receive approval to test. Some states allow people who don’t live there to take the GED ® test and others don’t. You’ll need to check the residency requirement for the state that you’re interested to test in. Georgia doesn’t have a residency requirement, so they’ll allow you to take the GED ® test there.