Cerebellar ataxia syndrome is a collection of symptoms related to damage to the cerebellum. This is the part of the brain that controls coordination, balance and fine motor function. How it Affects your pet. Treatments. Breeds Affected. Cerebellar ataxia syndrome is a collection of symptoms related to damage to the cerebellum. This is the part of the brain that controls coordination, balance and fine motor function. Various pet health conditions can cause such damage. These include genetic disorders, trauma, toxins and tumors
Ataxia is defined as a loss of muscle coordination (incoordination/unsteady gait) . There are three types of ataxia, cerebellar, vestibular and sensory. Cerebellar-The cerebellum is a part of the brain responsible for movement. Vestibular-The vestibular system is the sensory system responsible for balance. It is located within the inner ear. Sensory-This type of ataxia relates to a loss of proprioception, the sense of position and movement of the body. There are a number of causes of ataxia in cats, some of which include: Poisoning-Snail bait, lily, pyrethrin etc.
Ataxia, Vestibular Disease in Cats. There are three clinical types of ataxia: sensory (proprioceptive), vestibular, and cerebellar. All three types produce changes in limb coordination, but vestibular and cerebellar ataxia also produce changes in head and neck movement. Ataxia, in general, is a condition relating to a sensory dysfunction that produces loss of coordination of the limbs, head, and/or trunk. A typical outward symptom of sensory ataxia is misplacing the feet, accompanied by a progressive weakness as the disease advances. Sensory ataxia can occur with spinal cord, brain stem (the lower part of the brain near the neck), and cerebral locations of lesions.
Ataxia refers to a lack of coordination. It comes from the Greek language meaning “lack of order”. It is used in reference to all animals and people. A cat with ataxia will suffer from an inability to coordinate voluntarily muscle movements. Ataxia is a symptom of some central nervous system disorders or injuries. It is not because of muscle weakness. There are many causes. One is Feline Cerebellar Hypoplasia. Gordon (above) has this disease: I won’t go into great detail on causes but other possible causes are: 1  an inherited metabolic disease that causes the degeneration of the central nervous system. 
Feline ataxia syndrome (or congenital feline ataxia) is a rare cause of ataxia in cats associated with Feline Panleucopenia. Core vaccines have virtually eliminated this diseases due to the eradication of feline leucopenia as a clinical entity. 
Ataxia in cats: Causes of disease. ataxia in cats can have different cause and manifested by abnormalities in the movement patterns of the animals. Common triggers of damage to the central nervous system, we would like to describe here. ataxia in cats can be caused by diseases or injuries. ataxia in cats is caused by damage to the central nervous system in the spinal cord or brain of the cat. ataxia in cats: Possible causes in young animals. The damage to the central nervous system can occur before birth in kittens. The most common cause for this is that the mother cat is with FPV, the causative agent of cat scratch disease feline distemper, infected.
Ataxia is defined as a loss of muscle coordination (incoordination/unsteady gait) . There are three types of ataxia, cerebellar, vestibular and sensory. There are a number of causes of ataxia in cats, some of which include: Poisoning-Snail bait, lily, pyrethrin etc. Spinal trauma-Most often caused by a motor vehicle accident or a high fall. Nutritional-Thiamine (B1) deficiency. Catnip high. Head injury. Tumour. Infection-Feline panleukopenia