Wobble 3- This is an example that has been used in one of The Synthesist's tracks previously. Its an example of experimentation with the LFO, applied to the Ring Modulator in addition to the Filter's Frequency Cutoff. Try applying an LFO to the Phase knob in the Modulation Oscillator. 
Speed wobble. Wobble, shimmy, tank-slapper, speed wobble, and even death wobble are all words and phrases used to describe a quick (4–10 Hz) oscillation of primarily just the steerable wheel(s) of a vehicle. Wobble or shimmy begins when some otherwise minor irregularity accelerates the wheel to one side. The restoring force is applied in phase with the progress of the irregularity, and the wheel turns to the other side where the process is repeated.
noun. verb. The definition of a wobble is an unsteady movement, or a quiver in the voice. 1  The unsteady walk that a child has when first learning to walk is an example of a wobble. 2  The nervous shaking in a person's voice when he has to give a public speech and doesn't want to is an example of a wobble. 1 The unsteady walk that a child has when first learning to walk is an example of a wobble. 2  The nervous shaking in a person's voice when he has to give a public speech and doesn't want to is an example of a wobble.
Fluctuating solar spectrum. Now back to that planetary wobble. Scientists break light waves up into their component colors, and if you examine the rainbow colors of the Sun (called the solar spectrum) with a prism, you'll notice dark lines within the spectrum where color is almost completely missing. It is this slight stellar wobble that leads astronomers to conclude there must be an unseen something on the other end of the astronomical teeter-totter to produce the periodic effect -- and the period in question is the orbital year of the planet.
The above spectral analysis indicates that the Chandler wobble indeed possesses multiple frequencies to exhibit the resonant coupled oscillations. We can further confirm this conclusion with a demonstration in the time domain through digital filtering of the polar motion data. 3; this indicates that high noise level will not affect the Chandler frequency split. A check of the synthetic series in Fig. 17 (b), one may find that 105 years are longer than the main resonance cycle of the five-component Chandler wobble, which is about 86 years as that shown in Fig.
Gamma is the gyromagnetic ratio and is a constant unique to every atom. At the magnetic field strengths used in clinical MRI systems, .05 to 2 Tesla, the resonance frequency of hydrogen ranges from 2.13 MHz to 85 MHz. Spinning protons wobble or precess. The frequency of the precession is directly proportional to the strength of the magnetic field and is defined by the Larmor Equation: Where woe (wø omega) zerio is known as either the, Precessional larmor or resonance. frequency
by Laurance Doyle. Almost all of them have been discovered using what can be colloquially called the wobble method.. This is an indirect method, which means the presence of a planet is inferred -- in this case, by a planet's effect on the star it orbits. It is this slight stellar wobble that leads astronomers to conclude there must be an unseen something on the other end of the astronomical teeter-totter to produce the periodic effect -- and the period in question is the orbital year of the planet.