Speaking of the due date, the gestation period for hedgehogs is approximately 35 days. I have heard of births happening from about 33 days through to about 42, so the 35 is not absolute. Most will be within the 34-37 day range, however. Probably most notable is that mother hedgehogs will tend to eat the babies if disturbed at all for a few days prior to, and for up to about 10 days after the birth. This can be heartbreaking and very frustrating to would be breeders. By our (human) standards, this sort of thing is unthinkable, and very hard to accept.
How old should a female be when she is bred?-. It is recommended that you wait until a female is at least 6 months of age before she is bred for the first time. You should not breed a female if she is or may be over 18 months of age and has never had babies before. That depends on the female. Typically, it is suggested to retire breeding females at around 2 1/2 years of age. Sometimes, they will retire themselves at a younger age, by failing to concieve or by refusing to raise babies.
Male hedgehogs know what to do (females do as well, but will often play hard to get). Males will usually squeak very loudly and plaintively when they encounter a female -- and the actual courtship antics are usually VERY entertaining. Probably most notable is that mother hedgehogs will tend to eat the babies if disturbed at all for a few days prior to, and for up to about 10 days after the birth. This can be heartbreaking and very frustrating to would be breeders. By our (human) standards, this sort of thing is unthinkable, and very hard to accept.
Never breed ill-tempered animals! This is very irresponsible since that bad attitude will be passed on to the hoglets! The female should be between 5 and 12 months when you first breed her-no younger and preferably, no older. If she is too young, it could cause permanent damage to her internal organs. After she is one year old, her chances of conceiving for the first time drop dramatically. Since you will be bringing the female to the male's cage, (this ensures better breeding success) clean his cage, and remove any obstacles such as toys, tubes or boxes that might get in their way. Then, take her to his cage and leave them together for about 7 days.
To breed hedgehogs, obviously, the minimum you need is a male and a female, but there are many other points to consider. Breeding of ill tempered hedgehogs is not a good idea, breeding of related hedgehogs can also be a bad idea. Choose the hedgehogs to be bred with some care. Probably most notable is that mother hedgehogs will tend to eat the babies if disturbed at all for a few days prior to, and for up to about 10 days after the birth. This can be heartbreaking and very frustrating to would be breeders. By our (human) standards, this sort of thing is unthinkable, and very hard to accept.
Next time she has a litter she will be familiar with how to care for her babies and be able to do it on her own. If the babies must be removed then you have quite a handful for the next few weeks. One thing I learned is that hedgehogs only require 5 to 10% of their body weight in food each 24 hour period. Probably most notable is that mother hedgehogs will tend to eat the babies if disturbed at all for a few days prior to, and for up to about 10 days after the birth. This can be heartbreaking and very frustrating to would be breeders. By our (human) standards, this sort of thing is unthinkable, and very hard to accept.
Female hedgehogs should be a minimum of 6 months old before breeding. Breeding after the 6 month mark can also have adverse reactions such as a greater instance of cannibalized litters and rejected hoglets, and/or birthing complications. It s advisable you breed two females at the same time. 
Hedgehog gestation is normally around 35 days. However, live babies can be delivered as early as 29 days, or as late as 59 days from the last breeding opportunity. That depends on the female. Typically, it is suggested to retire breeding females at around 2 1/2 years of age. Sometimes, they will retire themselves at a younger age, by failing to concieve or by refusing to raise babies.
Once again, health is an important consideration. Males can usually breed throughout their life span (we have a five year old who has sired litters) if they are healthy. Be sure the male is not related to the female. Inbreeding hedgehogs can lead to physical anomalies, health problems, and poor temperament, and should NOT be done. Breeding and Development Articles and pictures about hedgehog breeding, growth, and development. Advanced Care Issues Articles for people who already own a hedgehog or want to know more than just the basics.
They love their exercise wheels for this reason! Male Pygmy hedgehogs are mature at five months old when they can start breeding. The gestation period is quite long for such tiny little creatures and can be anything from 32 to 50 days. Females usually give birth to three or four babies in any one litter. 