Maximum Amount. The maximum annual amount of Pell Grant funding was $5,500 as of February 2011, says Federal Student Aid. However, due to their financial backgrounds and/or school costs, many students are not eligible for the maximum amount of Pell Grant funding. Additionally, a student's enrollment status (full-or part-time) and time remaining in college also factor into Pell Grant eligibility.
Another major change is that eligible students can now receive a Pell Grant for summer college courses. This amendment is valid from summer 2010 onwards. You can now receive a Pell Grant optional disbursement of $2,675 if you take courses in the summer term. Previously, it was possible for students to get this type of funding, only if they had not received the grant for the spring or fall semester. 
1 Applies for the Pell Grant for her freshman year, and is eligible to receive $5,000 in funding. 2  She only attends school in the fall semester, though, so she only has to pay for half a year of school. 3  As a result, she only gets $2,500, or 50%, of the annual grant money that she was eligible for. Student A can apply for the Pell Grant the next year, and she still has 550% of her lifetime max (600%) available to her. Student B Wasn't eligible for the Pell Grant his freshman, sophomore, or junior year.
In order to be eligible for a second Pell Grant award, you must progress to the second year. At Valencia an academic award year is defined as 24 hours. Therefore, the second year begins at 25 credit hours. Remember, you must accelerate in order to receive two Pell Grants in one academic year. 1) The first scheduled Pell Grant award This is the amount initially provided. During the 2010-2011 academic year, the maximum amount initially provided is $5,550. You can be enrolled in any enrollment status to be eligible for funding from the first scheduled Pell Grant award, depending on your EFC.
Best Answer: If you apply to FAFSA, then yes. However, the amount can vary, so the only way of finding out is if you actually applied, and once everything is processed, your school sends you a financial aid award letter that states the estimated amount of how much you should receive for grants or loans. You have the choice of accepting or declining whichever loans or grants you want. The MAXIMUM pell grant for this year is $5500. That doesn't always mean that you will get $5500 each year though. The amounts can vary from year to year. And financial aid/FAFSA is something you have to apply for each school year you want aid for
The total Pell Grant funding amount for the year 2014 is $31.1 billion. Broken down this means that for 2015, the maximum grant appropriation per student is $4,860, and the mandatory entitlement amount is $915 for a total of $5,775 for the year. The Pell Grant is a need-based federal grant for low-income students who require financial support to pay for college. Pell Grants are awarded to undergraduate students who have not received their first bachelor’s degree and to some students who are enrolled in qualifying post-baccalaureate programs.
The value of your Federal Pell Grant can change yearly. For the academic year of 2015-2016 the maximum amount of the award is $5,775. The assistance that a student will get depends on the information provided on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. The Pell Grant is a need-based federal grant for low-income students who require financial support to pay for college. Pell Grants are awarded to undergraduate students who have not received their first bachelor’s degree and to some students who are enrolled in qualifying post-baccalaureate programs.
Student A. 1  Applies for the Pell Grant for her freshman year, and is eligible to receive $5,000 in funding. 2  She only attends school in the fall semester, though, so she only has to pay for half a year of school. 3  As a result, she only gets $2,500, or 50%, of the annual grant money that she was eligible for. Student A can apply for the Pell Grant the next year, and she still has 550% of her lifetime max (600%) available to her. Student B Wasn't eligible for the Pell Grant his freshman, sophomore, or junior year.
To find out additional information regarding your Pell Grant award, please contact the financial aid office at the your school. Note: The maximum award amount is given for any Pell Grant eligible student whose parent or guardian died as a result of military service in Iraq or Afghanistan after Sept. 11, 2001. You must be under 24 years old or enrolled at least part-time in college at the time your parent's or guardian's death. 