1 Visiting the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto Toronto is one of the largest cities in North America. 2  It is also known for its world-class attractions, including art and cultural institutions, like the Royal Ontario Museu…. ===== There is another theory as to the meaning of the word Toronto.. Many are of the opinion that it means trees in the water.. Lake Simcoe was at one time called Lac de Toronto, and the first nations footpath leading from the mouth of the Humber River to Lake Simcoe was known as the Toronto Portage.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Toronto is the most culturally diverse city in the world. So, whatever it is that you're looking for, you can probably find it here. (I'm a native.) It's a city of about 3 million people, but if you count the Greater Toronto area, it's probably over 5 million. 
Toronto's most famous landmark is the CN Tower, a 553 metre- (1,815 foot-) tall steel and concrete transmission tower and observation deck, which is one of the tallest structures in the world. 1 Historic Unionville in Markham is one of the other Toronto attractions which attracts many tourists because of its beautiful environment and its very old buildings. 2  Canada's Wonderland in Vaughan is Canada's largest theme parks.
Confidence votes 2.6K. Canada is best known for their maple syrup, the Canadian goose, the beaver, having the most freshwater in the world, multiculturalism, free health care, etc. It is also known for its beautiful sites, rivers, mountain sides, scenery and tourist attractions. 
Toronto (/tɵˈrɒntoʊ/ , local /təˈrɒnoʊ/ or /ˈtrɒn-/) is the most populous city in Canada, and the capital of the province of Ontario. When Europeans first arrived at the site of present-day Toronto, the vicinity was inhabited by the Iroquois, who by then had displaced the Wyandot people that had occupied the region for centuries before c. 1500.
Toronto is a prominent centre for music, theatre, motion picture production, and television production, and is home to the headquarters of Canada's major national broadcast networks and media outlets. When Europeans first arrived at the site of present-day Toronto, the vicinity was inhabited by the Iroquois, who by then had displaced the Wyandot people that had occupied the region for centuries before c. 1500.
The Word Toronto means Meeting Place, Since Toronto is Canada's Largest City, It is where all the business is done, and where politics takes place. It is called the meeting … place because Toronto is where most of the countries important stuff gets done and where the government meets. ===== There is another theory as to the meaning of the word Toronto.. Many are of the opinion that it means trees in the water.. Lake Simcoe was at one time called Lac de Toronto, and the first nations footpath leading from the mouth of the Humber River to Lake Simcoe was known as the Toronto Portage.
Old Toronto is also home to many historically wealthy residential enclaves, such as Yorkville, Rosedale, The Annex, Forest Hill, Lawrence Park, Lytton Park, Deer Park, Moore Park, and Casa Loma, most stretching away from downtown to the north. When Europeans first arrived at the site of present-day Toronto, the vicinity was inhabited by the Iroquois, who by then had displaced the Wyandot people that had occupied the region for centuries before c. 1500.
83 Comments. The most famous restaurants in Toronto are all staples of sorts that we all keep coming back to. Toronto sometimes feels like a city made up entirely of food. Our city's diversity means people have brought culinary influences from so many other countries, and it means going out for dinner is never boring. Here, it was a list of the most famous restaurants in the city which is altogether more objective. For example, the best diner in the city might be in some strip mall on Ellesmere (but probably isn't), but the most famous diner is probably Fran's.
Toronto Facts. Toronto is Canada's largest city, the fourth largest in North America, and home to a diverse population of about 2.8 million people. It's a global centre for business, finance, arts and culture and is consistently ranked one of the world's most livable cities.