Sanctura (trospium chloride) and Sanctura XR (trospium chloride extended release). Detailed View: Safety Labeling Changes Approved By FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER). 
DRUG DESCRIPTION. SANCTURA® (trospium chloride) is a quaternary ammonium compound with the chemical name of Spiro [8azoniabicyclo[3.2.1]octane-8,1'-pyrrolidinium], 3-[(hydroxydiphenylacetyl)oxy]-, chloride, (1α, 3β, 5α). The empirical formula of trospium chloride is C 25 H 30 ClNO 3 and its molecular weight is 427.97. 
SANCTURA XR ® is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. 
Availability of Generic Sanctura. Like the brand-name version, generic Sanctura is available in one strength -- Trospium 20 mg tablets. It is made by generic manufacturers such as Glenmark Generics and Paddock Laboratories. The patent for brand-name Sanctura has expired, and now a generic version of the drug is available.
trospium, an anticholinergic. indication This drug is used to treat overactive bladder. contraindications Uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma, urinary retention, gastric retention, and known hypersensitivity to this drug prohibit its use. Patient/Family Teaching. 1  Instruct patient to take as directed. 2  If a dose is skipped, take next dose 1 hr prior to next meal. 3  May cause drowsiness, dizziness, and blurred vision. 4  Caution patient to avoid driving and other activities requiring alertness until response to medication is known.
Sanctura is a medication that is used to treat urinary incontinence, frequent urination, and other symptoms of an overactive bladder. 
Daily Life Interactions for Sanctura XR 60mg Extended-Release Capsule. Close. Elements of your daily lifestyle may have an effect on the medications you are taking. Drug interactions can result in unwanted side effects, reduce the effectiveness of your medicine or possibly increase the action of a particular medicine. 
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Sanctura sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. 
Description. Trospium chloride an antispasmodic, antimuscarinic medication that is used to treat an overactive bladder causing symptoms of frequency, urgency, or urge incontinence. 