• GLUTTONOUS (adjective). The adjective GLUTTONOUS has 1 sense: 1. given to excess in consumption of especially food or drink. Familiarity information: GLUTTONOUS used as an adjective is very rare. Given to excess in consumption of especially food or drink. Context examples: over-fed women and their gluttonous husbands / a gluttonous debauch / a gluttonous appetite for food and praise and pleasure. Similar: crapulous (given to gross intemperance in eating or drinking).
Adj. 1. gluttonous-given to excess in consumption of especially food or drink; over-fed women and their gluttonous husbands; a gluttonous debauch; a gluttonous appetite for food and praise and pleasure. indulgent-characterized by or given to yielding to the wishes of someone; indulgent grandparents. Walden & on the Duty of Civil Disobedience by Thoreau, Henry David View in context. Cora, already regretting her precipitation, was obliged to comply, for Magua instantly left the spot, and approached his gluttonous comrades.
For other uses, see Gluttony (disambiguation) . Gluttony, derived from the Latin gluttire meaning to gulp down or swallow, means over-indulgence and over-consumption of food, drink, or wealth items to the point of extravagance or waste. 1 Proverbs 23:20-21 - Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh: For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.. 2  Proverbs 23:2 - When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee.
Gluttony is generally defined as excessive eating.. In the Bible, the word glutton and its variants are often mentioned alongside drunkenness. Therefore, it is clear that a glutton is someone who eats more than is healthy or eats excessively and that such behavior is considered sinful. 
Church leaders from the ascetic Middle Ages took a more expansive view of gluttony: Pope Gregory I, a doctor of the Church, described the following ways by which one can commit sin of gluttony, and corresponding biblical examples for each of them: 1. Eating before the time of meals in order to satisfy the palate. 1 Proverbs 23:20-21 - Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh: For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.. 2  Proverbs 23:2 - When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee.
Learn More About GLUTTONOUS. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for gluttonous. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of gluttonous. Nglish: Translation of gluttonous for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of gluttonous for Arabic speakers. 
gluttonous adjective. › ​eating and ​drinking more than you need › using more than you need: She said that ​industrialized ​countries should ​reduce ​their gluttonous (= ​greater than is ​needed) ​consumption of ​oil. As part of our occasional series on idioms used in or in relation to business, we look today at the important area of making projects happen – getting projects started, making progress with those projects and, as sometimes happens, failing to make progress.
1 If you become less gluttonous, less greedy, less myopic, more savvy about the world in general, they don't win; you win. 2  If you're as gluttonous as we were, you should expect to pay $20 or so per person (including a complementary bowl of chips and homemade salsa), but you can also eat for much less. 1 If you're as gluttonous as we were, you should expect to pay $20 or so per person (including a complementary bowl of chips and homemade salsa), but you can also eat for much less.
Meaning: Given to excess in consumption of especially food or drink. Context examples: over-fed women and their gluttonous husbands / a gluttonous debauch / a gluttonous appetite for food and praise and pleasure. Similar: crapulous (given to gross intemperance in eating or drinking).