Plastids are cell organelles that store specific things found only in plant cell but absent in animal cells. In plant cell they are found in the cytoplasm. Plastids are spherical or ovoid in shape. They are involved in manufacture and storage of certain important chemical compounds. The term plastids was coined by Schimper in 1885 and was derived from a Greek word ' plastikas' which means formed or mou lded.
Plant cells contain cell structures like cell wall, plastids, and large vacuoles. Cell wall provide plant cells rigidity and structural support and cell to cell interaction. Plastids help in storage of plant products.
Plant chloroplasts develop mainly in cells located in plant leaves. Chloroplasts and other plastids develop from cells called proplastids. Proplastids are immature, undifferentiated cells that develop into different types of plastids. A proplastid that develops into a chloroplast, only does so in the presence of light.
Chloroplasts are organelles found in plant cells and other eukaryotic organisms that conduct photosynthesis. The word chloroplast is derived from the Greek words chloros, which means green, and plast, which means form or entity. Chloroplasts are members of a class of organelles known as plastids.
Plastids are sub-cellular self-replicating organelles present in all living plant cells, and the exclusive site of many important biological processes, the most fundamental being the photosynthetic fixation of CO2 within chloroplasts, a process which is vital to life on earth.
Plant cells: Plastids: As previously mentioned, plastids are doubled membraned 'sac-like' organelles, generally involved in either the manufacture or storage of food. They include chloroplasts, chromoplasts and leucoplasts. All develop from proplastids: simple, generally colorless undifferentiated plastids..
Plastids are found in plant and algae cells that use photosynthesis to manufacture and store food. Chloroplasts, chromoplasts, and leucoplasts are the most common plastids.
Organelles, called plastids, are the main sites of photosynthesis in eukaryotic cells. Chloroplasts, as well as any other pigment containing cytoplasmic organelles that enables the harvesting and conversion of light and carbon dioxide into food and energy, are plastids.