Modify a Template. Before you void the invoice you need to create your template. Click the customize manage templates button. Click the Copy button to make a copy of the template, then change the template name to “Void Invoice” in the Template Name box. Click “OK” to close the window. Un-check the Print Status Stamp box, then click Additional Customization
Open QuickBooks and click Enter Bills.. Step 2. Click the Vendor drop-down menu and select the name of your company you use for shipping. If the company is not already saved to the company file, click Add New and enter the information for the company. Related Reading: How to Enter Past Two Years Into QuickBooks. Step 3. Click Date and select the day the bill was created.
Click the Manage Templates button and in the upper right you can change the name. Make it clear what this is. Select the Layout Designer, click the Add button and then add an Image. Select the image file that you want to use, then drag it to the appropriate place on your form. Keep in mind that if you are printing your invoices on a black and white printer, some color images don’t always stand out well. Select your starting template, then click the Templates button at the bottom of the page and select Duplicate. Select the type of template you are creating. A copy is added to your template list with the prefix Copy: Click the Templates button again and select Edit Template.
(No Ratings Yet) Loading... For QuickBooks 2011, Intuit improved the Paid stamp to reflect the date the customer invoice was paid, as shown in the screenshot below. Unfortunately, a Paid stamp is also applied to vendor bills, and that stamp does not reflect the date the bill was paid
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. QuickBooks Tip 24: How to Remove the Paid Stamp from a Paid Invoice is part of QuickBooks Tips Volume 3 (https://vimeo.com/ondemand/qbtipsvol3). In this video, you'll learn how to Remove the Paid Stamp from a Paid Invoice in QuickBooks. Make sure to subscribe, like, and post comments…Thanks!
Look for your invoice template that you are using, highlight it, right click on your mouse and Edit Template. This will open up the Basic Customization screen. Let your eyes scan to the bottom section of that page called Company & Transaction Information, and you will see a box that says beside it – Print Status Stamp. Clicking on that box will make a check mark which will then activate that Status Stamp to be printed when it has been PAID. If you email an invoice that has been paid, then that PAID stamp will appear in the PDF document that QuickBooks sends. And that’s how you get the PAID stamp to appear on a paid invoice. Note: www.quickbookstrained.com is now mobile friendly. From the web address you can choose Options/Mobile formatted and the site will appear in all its living colour for you to view. Check it out
QuickBooks has several “stamps” that it will put on an invoice, such as “Paid”. Sometimes, though, you would like to add your own stamp. The simplest way is to create a customized form template. You will need to either create or find an appropriate image. You can find quite a number by searching in Google, the trick is to find something that is cheap (or free). Select your starting template, then click the Templates button at the bottom of the page and select Duplicate. Select the type of template you are creating. A copy is added to your template list with the prefix Copy: Click the Templates button again and select Edit Template.