PTH stands for parathyroid hormone. It is a protein hormone released by the parathyroid gland. The parathyroid glands are located in the neck, near or attached to the back side of the thyroid gland. Parathyroid hormone controls calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood and bone. Release of PTH is controlled by the level of calcium in the blood. Low blood calcium levels cause increased PTH to be released, while high blood calcium levels block PTH release. A laboratory test can be done to measure the amount of PTH in your blood.
When blood-calcium levels are too high, the parathyroid glands produce less PTH. But sometimes one or more of these glands produce too much hormone, leading to abnormally high levels of calcium (hypercalcemia) and low levels of phosphorus in your blood. 
1 If calcium levels are high and PTH levels are high, then the parathyroid glands are producing inappropriately high amounts of PTH. 2  A health practitioner may order X-rays or other imaging studies to help determine the cause and evaluate the severity of hyperparathyroidism. If both PTH and calcium levels are normal, then it is likely that the body's calcium regulation system is functioning properly. Low levels of PTH may be due to conditions causing hypercalcemia or to an abnormality in PTH production causing hypo
1 Hypoparathyroidism is a failure of the parathyroid glands to produce sufficient PTH. 2  It may be due to a variety of conditions and may be persistent, progressive, or transient. 3  Causes include an autoimmune disorder, parathyroid damage or removal during surgery, a genetic condition, or a severe illness. If both PTH and calcium levels are normal, then it is likely that the body's calcium regulation system is functioning properly. Low levels of PTH may be due to conditions causing hypercalcemia or to an abnormality in PTH production causing hypoparathyroidism.
The so-called intact PTH is the most frequently ordered parathyroid hormone test. It is used to help diagnose the cause of a low or high calcium level and to help distinguish between parathyroid-related and non-parathyroid-related causes. It may also be used to monitor the effectiveness of treatment when an individual has a parathyroid-related condition. If both PTH and calcium levels are normal, then it is likely that the body's calcium regulation system is functioning properly. Low levels of PTH may be due to conditions causing hypercalcemia or to an abnormality in PTH production causing hypoparathyroidism.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH), also known as parathormone, is a hormone released by the parathyroid glands. The four parathyroid glands are located in your neck, next to the thyroid gland. These glands are responsible for managing calcium, vitamin D, and phosphorus levels in the blood and bones. Thus, calcium imbalances in the blood may be a sign of parathyroid gland or PTH issues. Calcium levels in the blood signal the parathyroid glands to release PTH. When calcium levels are low, the parathyroid glands increase PTH production.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is released by the parathyroid glands. The four tiny parathyroid glands are located in the neck, near or attached to the back side of the thyroid gland. PTH controls calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood. It is important for regulating bone growth. 
Guide. A parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test measures the level of parathyroid hormone in the blood. This test is used to help identify hyperparathyroidism, to find the cause of abnormal calcium levels, or to check the status of chronic kidney disease. PTH controls calcium and phosphorus levels in the blood. A test for parathyroid hormone (PTH) is done to: 1  Help identify hyperparathyroidism. 2  Find the cause of an abnormal blood calcium level. 3  Check to see whether a problem with the parathyroid glands is causing the abnormal calcium level. 4  Watch for problems in people who have chronic kidney disease.
A parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test measures the level of parathyroid hormone in the blood. The test is used to help identify hyperparathyroidism, to find the cause of abnormal calcium levels, or to check the status of chronic kidney disease. High values. High PTH levels may be caused by: 1  A parathyroid gland growth (hyperplasia) or a parathyroid tumor. 2  A low level of calcium in the blood. 3  A low blood calcium level can be caused by kidney disease, kidney failure, severe vitamin D deficiency, or an inability of the intestines to absorb calcium from food.