Directions. 1  In bowl mix first 5 ingredients; add water and egg and then stir till smooth,. 2  This batter is enough for 4 cups vegetables or 1 pound of fish or meat cut up. 
Ryouchin/Photodisc/Getty Images. Tempura are battered and deep fried dishes, which are commonly eaten in Japan. This is a recipe to make basic batter. Using ice water for the batter is recommended in order to make crispy tempura. It's good to make the batter right before frying tempura. Preparing the batter ahead of time is not recommended. 
tempura noun [U]. › a ​type of ​Japanese ​food, made by ​covering ​small ​pieces of ​fish or ​vegetables in ​batter and ​frying them. (Definition of tempura from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
James and James/Photodisc/Getty Images. Tempura are battered and deep-fried vegetables, seafood, and so on. They are best served hot with tempura dipping sauce or salt. Grated daikon radish is a common condiment to put in the sauce. If you know some tips, it's not so hard to make delicious tempura at home. Tips for Making Crispy Tempura: 1  It's good to use cold/ice water for the batter. 2  This is important to prevent the batter from absorbing too much oil. 3  Preparing the batter ahead of time is not recommended. 4  It's good to make the batter right before frying tempura.
Tempura is traditionally served with boiled soba noodles and shredded carrots or daikon radish. The difference between good and bad tempura is the batter—the goal is a light, crisp coating that doesn't absorb oil when fried. There are several important steps for achieving this texture: 1). Don't overmix the batter. When you stir in the water, mix very gently just until the dry ingredients are moistened.
Actually, you can make tempura with various ingredients. Common Ingredients are shrimp, squid, green bell pepper, eggplant, sweet potatoes, potatoes, kabocha, carrot, mushrooms, shiso (perilla), and so on. Tips for Making Crispy Tempura: 1  It's good to use cold/ice water for the batter. 2  This is important to prevent the batter from absorbing too much oil. 3  Preparing the batter ahead of time is not recommended. 4  It's good to make the batter right before frying tempura.
Madonna and Child by Duccio, tempera and gold on wood, 1284, Siena. Tempera (. [ˈtɛmpera]), also known as egg tempera, is a permanent, fast-drying painting medium consisting of colored pigments mixed with a water-soluble binder medium (usually a glutinous material such as egg yolk or some other size). Tempera also refers to the paintings done in this medium
• TEMPURA (noun). The noun TEMPURA has 1 sense: 1. vegetables and seafood dipped in batter and deep-fried. Familiarity information: TEMPURA used as a noun is very rare. 
Noun. 1. tempura-vegetables and seafood dipped in batter and deep-fried. dish-a particular item of prepared food; she prepared a special dish for dinner. Nihon, Nippon, Japan-a constitutional monarchy occupying the Japanese Archipelago; a world leader in electronics and automobile manufacture and ship building. 1  Facebook.
How to Make Tempura. Three Parts: Making the batter Preparing the dipping ingredients Frying. If you've enjoyed tempura in Japanese restaurants, you know that the dish is an unforgettable treat. Although tempura may seem exotic, it isn't difficult to make at home. 