Gikuyu is the primary language. Older members of the family speak only Gikuyu. Kikuyu are very proud of their language and most multilingual Kikuyu prefer to speak Kikuyu with anyone who knows the language. Church services are always in Kikuyu, except in towns, where Swahili is used or services are bilingual.
The Kikuyu are a Bantu speaking people who live in the highlands of central Kenya. They are also known as Giguyu, Gekoyo, Gigikuyu, and Agekoyo. Photo Credit: Image: © Alistair Boddy-Evans.
Having migrated to their current location about four centuries ago, the Kikuyu now make up Kenya’s largest ethnic group. The Kikuyu people spread rapidly throughout the Central Province and Kenya. The Kikuyu usually identify their land by the surrounding mountain ranges which they call Kirinyaga-the shining mountain.
Welcome to the Kikuyu google satellite map! This place is situated in Central, Kenya, its geographical coordinates are 1° 15' 0 South, 36° 40' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Kikuyu. See Kikuyu photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Kikuyu in Kenya.
Although some of the Kikuyu culture has eroded, the Kikuyu language is still predominantly spoken, especially in the urban areas where a majority of people speak English and Swahili. The Kikuyu language has almost become Kenya's third language of choice.
The first Kenyan president, the late Mzee Jomo Kenyatta was a Kikuyu; Kenya's third and current president, his Excellency Emilio Mwai Kibaki, is also a Kikuyu and so is the late Professor Wangari Maathai, Africa's first female Nobel Peace Prize winner.
Kikuyu Grass is a warm season perennial lawn grass adapted to irrigated areas of the lower deserts in Arizona. It is a deep rooted, sod forming grass, spread by seed, rhizomes (underground runners), and stolons (above ground runners).
Kikuyus: industrious, farmers-Kenya's largest ethnic tribe. The Kikuyu tribe is a Bantu tribe that neighbors the Embu, Mbeere and Meru tribes around Mount Kenya. They are Kenya's most popular and the largest ethnic tribe, making up 22 percent of the country's population.