The uric acid urine test measures the amount of uric acid in a sample of urine collected over 24 hours. Uric acid is produced from the natural breakdown of your body's cells and from the foods you eat. Most of the uric acid is removed from the body in urine. A small amount passes out of the body in stool. The uric acid urine test measures the amount of uric acid in a sample of urine collected over 24 hours. The normal values listed here—called a reference range—are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal.
The pH of urine is between 5.8 and 7. It is slightly acidic to neutral. Infection is generally seen, when the pH levels are lesser than 5.5. Infection, in course of time, gives rise to alkaline urine with a pH of 7.5 or higher. Urine is, by nature, acidic. However, the degree of acidity is low enough for urine to be passed without any discomfort or pain. When the acidity of the urine increases, it causes discomfort during urination. Among acidic urine symptoms, discomfort while passing urine is the most common problem.
The uric acid urine test measures the amount of uric acid in a sample of urine collected over 24 hours. Uric acid is made from the natural breakdown of your body's cells. It's also made from the foods you eat. Your kidneys take uric acid out of your blood and put it into urine so that it can leave your body. But if your body is making too much uric acid, the level in the urine can get too high. And if your kidneys aren't working the way they should, the level of uric acid in the urine can get too low.
The most common cause of acidic urine is a lack of hydration. When the body does not have enough water, it will pass urine that has a higher concentration of waste materials and a lower concentration of water. This causes the urine to be darker in color. Urine is, by nature, acidic. However, the degree of acidity is low enough for urine to be passed without any discomfort or pain. When the acidity of the urine increases, it causes discomfort during urination. Among acidic urine symptoms, discomfort while passing urine is the most common problem.
Acidic Urine Remedy. Urine is a waste product of the human body. It is a result of the filtration process that takes place in the kidneys. The kidneys filter the blood and remove the impurities and other materials that are considered to be surplus to the requirements of the body. Urine is, by nature, acidic. However, the degree of acidity is low enough for urine to be passed without any discomfort or pain. When the acidity of the urine increases, it causes discomfort during urination. Among acidic urine symptoms, discomfort while passing urine is the most common problem.
Test Overview. The uric acid urine test measures the amount of uric acid in a sample of urine collected over 24 hours. Uric acid is made from the natural breakdown of your body's cells. It's also made from the foods you eat. Your kidneys take uric acid out of your blood and put it into urine so that it can leave your body. 
acidic. of or pertaining to an acid; acid-forming. acidic urine. is usual in carnivores, that of herbivores is usually neutral or slightly alkaline. Urine increases in acidity when a large load of acid is passed into the extracellular fluid and is excreted by the kidneys. If the kidneys can cope with the excretion load the pH of the blood will return to normal. 
A urine pH test can tell your doctor how acidic or basic (alkaline) your urine is using a simple, painless urine test. Many diseases, your diet, and the medicines you take can affect how acidic or basic your urine is. Because certain medications can make your urine more acidic, your physician also may order the urine pH test to determine if the medicine is making your urine too acidic. The urine pH test can also be used to determine the best medication to prescribe when you have a urinary tract infection.