Schneider is a provider of truckload, intermodal and logistics services. Schneider’s solutions, include Regional, Long-Haul, Expedited, Dedicated, Bulk, Intermodal, Brokerage, Cross-Dock Logistics, Supply Chain Management and Port Logistics. Founded in 1935 when Al Schneider sold the family car to buy his first truck, Schneider is headquartered in Green Bay, Wis.
Your browser doesn't support JavaScript or it has been disabled. Various features in this website require that JavaScript be supported and enabled to function properly. Welcome to Peninsula Truck Lines Peninsula Truck Lines is the premier regional LTL Carrier to over 950 cities and towns throughout the Northwest.
All rights reserved. My Account: Login | Register | Benefits. Come to Work for Best Overall Regional Trucking Company!* Peninsula Truck Lines has established a reputation of providing premium, personalized service throughout the region of Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. Good, stable work history. Minimum two-year experience with doubles in a line haul position in a mountainous region or 5 years OTR if doubles experience is less than our minimum. Good working knowledge of hours of service and chain up regulations.
The company has received awards from the American Trucking Associations, Oregon Trucking Associations and Washington Trucking Associations. Peninsula Truck Lines maintains one of its locations in Portland, Ore. Peninsula Truck Lines offers overnight delivery services. The company also maintains computer and communication systems. Additionally, it provides interstate and intrastate cross-dock, assembly, and consolidation and pool distribution services.
The 26-foot U-Haul truck is the largest rental moving truck that you can drive yourself. If you're searching for do-it-yourself moving solutions that involve someone else doing the driving, U-Pack offers a 28-foot commercial trailer – and customers love that the price is based on the space used in the trailer. With a few exceptions, most Budget moving truck rental locations require you to be at least 24 years old to rent. In some locations they will rent to customers 21-23 years old with two forms of ID (including a driver's license) and an $18 per day underage surcharge.
General Info: Founded in 1951, Peninsula Truck Lines is a logistics company that offers a range of transportation services. The company provides a variety of less-than-truckload and cargo handling solutions. It offers freight delivery, residential pickup and hazardous material handling services. The company maintains facilities in central Washington, Oregon and Idaho. Peninsula Truck Lines serves customers throughout the Northwest. The company has received Truck Driving Championships First Place Awards from the Washington Trucking Associations. Its Web site features an online rate calculator. Peninsula Truck Lines customers include North Coast Electric, Service Paper Company, Parker Paint Manufacturing, Olympic Mountain Products, and Valley Transformer.
It depends on the size of the truck. We’ve listed the average fuel mileage based on the size of the truck and the size of the tank. 1  10 foot truck: 30-35 gallon tank. 2  6-12 mpg. 3  12 foot truck: 35 gallon tank. 4  6-10 mpg. 5  15 foot truck: 40 gallon tank. 10 mpg. 6  16 foot truck: 35-37 gallon tank. With a few exceptions, most Budget moving truck rental locations require you to be at least 24 years old to rent. In some locations they will rent to customers 21-23 years old with two forms of ID (including a driver's license) and an $18 per day underage surcharge.
General Info: Peninsula Truck Lines is a regional carrier that provides transportation services in more than 950 cities and towns throughout the Northwest. Serving clients since 1951, the company operates service centers in Idaho and Oregon. It staffs over 370 employees and maintains a fleet of company-owned tractors, trailers and straight trucks with liftgates. Peninsula Truck Lines offers overnight delivery services. The company also maintains computer and communication systems. Additionally, it provides interstate and intrastate cross-dock, assembly, and consolidation and pool distribution services.
Shippers consistently name the company the top LTL carrier for the Western Region for trucking to Alaska. Lynden Transport is the first Alaska carrier to join EPA's SmartWay Environmental Partnership, and the Lynden companies earned a Green Star Award for environmental programs in Alaska. Lynden is a family of transportation and logistics companies built around a common goal-to develop long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with our clients. While most Lynden companies call Alaska and the Pacific Northwest home, the reach of our services extends around the globe.