Old crow watching hungrily, from his perch in yonder tree. In my garden I'm as free as that feathered thief up there. Inch by inch, row by row, gonna make this garden grow. All it takes is a rake and a hoe and a piece of fertile ground. Inch by inch, row by row, Someone bless the seeds I sow. Someone warm them from below, 'til the rain comes tumbling down. Pulling weeds and picking stones, man is made of dreams and bones.
In the Garden  (sometimes rendered by its first line  I Come to the Garden Alone ) is a gospel song written by American songwriter C. Austin Miles (1868–1946), a former pharmacist who served as editor and manager at Hall-Mack publishers for 37 years. The gospel song is sung in the closing scene of the film Places in the Heart (1984) and by Ronee Blakley in the Robert Altman film Nashville (1975). The song is included on Johnny Cash 's 5-CD box set Cash Unearthed, released posthumously in November, 2003, and featured on disc 4, My Mother's Hymn Book.
Garden Song  is a popular children's song and American folk song written by David Mallett in 1975. The song has been recorded by Paul Stookey of Peter, Paul and Mary, John Denver, Pete Seeger, Fred Penner, David LaMotte, Makem and Clancy, and Arlo Guthrie, as well as the Muppets.
Please try again later. Perhaps the finest performance ever recorded of Garden Song-by songwriter Dave Mallett, 1993. With Mark O'Connor, Jerry Douglas, Brent Mason, Glen Worf, and Harry Stinson. Many people think of this as a children's song; when Dave Mallett sings it, it's a working man's song. 1  Music
Grain for grain, sun and rain, I'll find my way in nature's chain. I tune my body and my brain to the music of the land. Inch by inch, row by row, I'm gonna make this garden grow. All it takes is a rake and a hoe and a piece of fertile ground. Inch by inch, row by row, someone bless these seeds I sow. Someone warm them from below 'til the rain comes tumbling down.
The Secret Garden. [song written El DeBarge, Siedah Garrett, Quincy Jones and Rod Temperton]. 
Lyrics Depot is your source of lyrics to Garden Party by Ricky Nelson. 
The song was first published in 1912 and popularized during the Billy Sunday evangelistic campaigns of the early twentieth century by two members of his staff, Homer Rodeheaver and Virginia Asher. Roy Rogers and Dale Evans recorded the song with vocal quartet and orchestra on March 3, 1950. The gospel song is sung in the closing scene of the film Places in the Heart (1984) and by Ronee Blakley in the Robert Altman film Nashville (1975). The song is included on Johnny Cash 's 5-CD box set Cash Unearthed, released posthumously in November, 2003, and featured on disc 4, My Mother's Hymn Book.