In general, prokaryotic cells are those that do not have a membrane-bound nucleus. In fact pro-karyotic is Greek for before nucleus. Besides bacteria, the cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) are a major group of prokaryotes. 
Examples of Prokaryotes. Prokaryotes are all single-celled organisms, most of which you know of as bacteria. For example, the famous (or infamous) Escherichia coli bacterium is a prokaryote, as is the streptococcus bacterium responsible for strep throat. A prokaryote is a cell without a nucleus and eukaryotes are cells that contain nuclei. There's one quick test to distinguish prokaryotes from eukaryotes: if you can see a single organism, it's a eukaryote.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: These are a group of organisms that lack a cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles. They differ from the eukaryotes, which have a cell nucleus. Most are unicellular, but a few prokaryotes such as myxobacteria have multicellular stages in their life cycles. The prokaryotes are divided into two domains: the bacteria and the archaea. Source(s): i remember from college...
Report Abuse. Prokaryotes do not have membrane bound organelles. They can have what looks like a nucleus, a nucleoid, but this lacks a nuclear envelope and is just compacted DNA or RNA (no nuclear envelope). They possess some other structures that eukaryotes have, such as vacuole and cytoskeletons. Report Abuse. Prokaryotes are organisms that lack a cell nucleus or karyona or organelles. Most prokaryotes are unicellular, wheareas eukaryotes are always multicellular. Among the prokaryotes, you can find the bacteriae and the archae. In prokaryotes, the genetic information is not membrane-bound, in other words their DNA is not in their cell
Living things have evolved into three large clusters of closely related organisms, called domains: Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukaryota. Archaea and Bacteria are small, relatively simple cells surrounded by a membrane and a cell wall, with a circular strand of DNA containing their genes. They are called prokaryotes. 
User: Which of the following types of organisms are prokaryotes? Answer animals, bacteria, fungi, protists Weegy: The answer is: bacteriaExpert answered|patmarone|Points 3747|User: Which kind of molecule gives a cell membrane its fluidity? 
Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization. The distinction is that eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus containing their DNA, whereas prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes contain large RNA / protein structures called ribosomes, which produce protein.
A prokaryote is a single-celled organism that lacks a membrane-bound nucleus (karyon), mitochondria, or any other membrane-bound organelle. The distinction is that eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus containing their DNA, whereas prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes contain large RNA / protein structures called ribosomes, which produce protein.