Monoculture is the agricultural practice of producing or growing a single crop or plant species in a field at a time. Polyculture, where more than one crop is grown in the same space at the same time, is the alternative to monoculture. Examples include wheat fields or apple orchards or grape vineyards. Because each species has the same growing requirements and habits, planting, maintenance (including pest control), and harvesting can be standardized, resulting in greater yields.
Noun. 1. monoculture-the cultivation of a single crop (on a farm or area or country). culture-the raising of plants or animals; the culture of oysters. Translations. [ˈmɒnəʊˌkʌltʃəʳ] N → monocultivo m. monoculture-the cultivation of a single crop (on a farm or area or country). culture-the raising of plants or animals; the culture of oysters
The advantage of a monoculture is that it allows huge amounts of  food to be produced for our ever increasing population, and to be  provided at affordable prices. This mode … rn farming technique has  also allowed farmers to greatly increase their profits, a far cry  from the subsidence farming of the past. Monoculture is mainly used in industrialized agriculture with many inputs of fossil … fuels and chemicals to produce large amounts of a single crop.
Examples of monoculture include lawns and most field cs wheat or corn. The term is also used where a single species of farm animal is raised in large-scale concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs). Examples include wheat fields or apple orchards or grape vineyards. Because each species has the same growing requirements and habits, planting, maintenance (including pest control), and harvesting can be standardized, resulting in greater yields.
Definition of MONOCULTURE. 1. : the cultivation or growth of a single crop or organism especially on agricultural or forest land. 2. : a crop or a population of a single kind of organism grown on land in monoculture. 3. : a culture dominated by a single element: a prevailing culture marked by homogeneity. — mono·cul·tur·al \ˌmae-ˌmä-nə-ˈkəlch, -rəl-ˈkəl-\ chə. adjective
Monocultures. Monocultures are large areas of land cultivated with a single crop, using methods that imply a high use of inputs such as agrotoxic chemicals and machinery. Monoculture crops and plantations have a host of social and environmental problems associated with their cultivation. 
Continuous monoculture, or monocropping, where the same species is grown year after year, can lead to the quicker buildup of pests and diseases, and then rapid spread where a uniform crop is susceptible to a pathogen. Diversity can be added both in space, as with a polyculture, or time, with a crop rotation or sequence. Examples include wheat fields or apple orchards or grape vineyards. Because each species has the same growing requirements and habits, planting, maintenance (including pest control), and harvesting can be standardized, resulting in greater yields.
Monoculture: The cultivation of a single crop in a given area – WordNet The use of land for growing only one type of crop – Dictionary.com The cultivation or growth of a single crop or organism especially on agricultural or forest land – Merriam Webster. Monoculture — growing vast fields of the same crop year after year — is probably the single most powerful simplification of modern agriculture. But monoculture is poorly fitted to the way nature seems to work. Very simply, a field of identical plants will be exquisitely vulnerable to insects, weeds and disease