Rami urged the MoL to specify 60 per cent of the total salary as the minimum basic salary, especially as the law requires the employee to work for five years in the same company to get gratuity of one month’s basic salary for each year worked. Humaid bin Dimas, Executive Director for Labour Affairs, said “the basic wage in the employment contract should be written with the consent of the employee.”. Bin Dimas said end of service gratuity should be calculated on the basis of gross salary if the employment contract is not clear about basic salary.
He said he got Dh1,500 as end-of-service gratuity after he worked for three years in the same company despite a total salary of about Dh7,000 a month. Bin Dimas said “the UAE’s Federal Labour Law mentions both basic salary and allowance but does not indicate their proportion to each other. He added that the MoL asks employers to update employee contracts. He added that the employment contract is signed with the mutual consent of the employer and employee. Humaid bin Dimas, Executive Director for Labour Affairs, said “the basic wage in the employment contract should be written with the consent of the employee.”. Bin Dimas said end of service gratuity should be calculated on the basis of gross salary if the employment contract is not clear about basic salary.
Gratuity pay is based on your last basic salary as per records appearing in the Department of Labour. Gratuity is equivalent to your 21-day pay for each year of service for first five years and 30-day pay for every year thereafter. To put in a nutshell, it is: If leaving within a year – No Gratuity. More than a year, but, less than 5 years – 21 days of basic salary. More than 5 years – 21 days’ basic pay for up to 5 years, apart from remaining 30 days basic salary per day wage.
No minimum wage has been prescribed under the UAE Labour Law. However, an employee with a monthly salary of less than Dhs. 4,000.00 will not be able to sponsor a resident visa for his spouse. This is a labour regulation and does not form part the labour law. 4. Wages according to the Law, has been defined as follows: Remuneration paid to the employee in return for his services under a labour contract, whether in cash or in kind; annually, monthly, weekly, daily, hourly, on a piece-rate, productivity linked.
The UAE Federal Labour Law and the Emirate of Dubai does not have the provision for minimum wages, and your basic salary is what is a negotiated rate stipulated in your labour contract. The amount is important, as it is the basis of calculation for your end-of-service gratuity pay. To put in a nutshell, it is: If leaving within a year – No Gratuity. More than a year, but, less than 5 years – 21 days of basic salary. More than 5 years – 21 days’ basic pay for up to 5 years, apart from remaining 30 days basic salary per day wage.
Many companies and employers, in violation of UAE Labour Law, pay only Basic salary or no salary at all during annual leave. UAE Labour Law clearly states about Leave Salary. If one employee completes two years of services and have not availed 30 days annual leave after completing her one year (at that time her salary was 2500 dhs). Now she is going on two months leave but what will be method to calculate her salary for two months
I work for a private company in Dubai on an unlimited contract and draw a monthly salary of Dh10,000. My basic salary is Dh5,000, and other allowances Dh5,000. After completion of two years, the company restructured this as basic salary Dh3,000 (30 per cent) and other allowances Dh7,000 (70 per cent). I understand the end of service benefits (EOSB) are computed on the last drawn basic salary which, in my case, has diminished to Dh3,000. It is further noted that upon completion of two years of employment your employer renewed your labour contract and at the time of its renewal reduced your basic salary to Dh3,000 (30 per cent) and other allowances were fixed to
There is no provision for minimum wages in the UAE Federal Labour Law, nor has the Emirate of Dubai instituted any such law. Your basic salary is a negotiated rate stipulated in your labour contract. 
Basic Wage is the wage specified in the labour contract and as agreed between the parties for the term of the contract. Allowances of whatever nature are not included in the basic wage. Therefore, accommodation, housing, transport and travel allowances will not be included in the basic wage. Wages according to the Law, has been defined as follows: Remuneration paid to the employee in return for his services under a labour contract, whether in cash or in kind; annually, monthly, weekly, daily, hourly, on a piece-rate, productivity linked.
The rules regarding payment of the end of service benefit (EOSB) are set out in the UAE Labour Law, but can be a little confusing. For someone who has been with an employer for more than 12 months but less than five years, the EOSB is 21 days’ pay for each year of service, based upon basic salary. 