Safe Kids Tuscaloosa is a network member of Safe Kids Worldwide, the first and only national organization dedicated solely to the prevention of accidental childhood injury – the number one killer of children ages 14 and under. Like us on Facebook for an update on events, pictures and other information! Mission: Safe Kids Tuscaloosa believes that every child has a right to be safe from accidental injury or death. Therefore, we will educate and support children, parents, and other caregivers to prevent accidental injuries and death and to promote safe practices
Tuscaloosa is the regional center of industry, commerce, healthcare, and education for the area of west-central Alabama known as West Alabama. Tuscaloosa is in the federal jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. There is a courthouse in Tuscaloosa simply called the Federal Courthouse. Several federal agencies operate bureaus out of the courthouse.
(Read More about Tuscaloosa). The city scores well for cost of living, especially for a college town and for healthcare and overall quality of life. Climate, crime and air service are among the negatives, although the crime issue has been improving. Educational attainment is a bit weak for a college town. The area may be better than the ranking suggests. The city is located in an area of level to low rolling hills on the banks of the Black Warrior River. Dams just to the northeast contain Lake Tuscaloosa and Bankhead Lake. Land cover is mainly agricultural and southern pine forests.
Safe Kids Tuscaloosa will educate children, parents and other child caregivers on safe practices to take to avoid unintentional, accidental injuries and death, the leading cause or injury and death, to children 14 yrs. and under. Like us on Facebook for an update on events, pictures and other information! Mission: Safe Kids Tuscaloosa believes that every child has a right to be safe from accidental injury or death. Therefore, we will educate and support children, parents, and other caregivers to prevent accidental injuries and death and to promote safe practices
Having said that West Tuscaloosa is to be avoided for the most part and University Blvd east into Alberta can be a bit dicey to. If an area looks bad it probably is. The exceptions to this rule are the original location of Dreamland ribs and Nicks in the Sticks. Hey rockbeck, wondering how your daughter was doing. Hope she's liking it. I live in Tuscaloosa and my daughter is a student at UA. If you need to know anything specific just ask.
1 The closest airport with commercial airline service is in Birmingham, 60 miles north-east of Tuscaloosa. 2  It is Alabama's largest airport serving the Greater Birmingham area and surrounding Southeastern cities. 3  More than 160 arrivals and departures to major cities throughout the United States are offered daily. 1 The University of Alabama, also known as Alabama, UA, or Bama, is a public coeducational university located in Tuscaloosa. 2  Founded in 1831, UA is the flagship campus of the University of Alabama System. 3  Within Alabama, it is often called the Capstone. 4  UA is the senior doctoral university in the state.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Tuscaloosa has a total area of 70.3 square miles (182 km 2), of which 60.2 square miles (156 km 2) is land and 10.1 square miles (26 km 2) is water. Most water within the city limits is in Lake Tuscaloosa, which is entirely in the city limits, and the Black Warrior River. Tuscaloosa is in the federal jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. There is a courthouse in Tuscaloosa simply called the Federal Courthouse. Several federal agencies operate bureaus out of the courthouse.
You might want to get away a bit from the university campus. Those areas tend to be filled with students, and students get rowdy and are transient. Northport is a good area-lots of shopping, very good public schools, housing in a range of prices. Moundville is another quiet suburb, a good bit more rural. There are subdivisions east of the city, around Cottondale. Tuscaloosa's kind of funny-slummy areas, with high-priced housing just a few streets away, followed by mid-range housing in another street or two. Schools in Tuscaloosa (city) vary a great deal in quality, which is why there are several private alternatives. You'll just need to get out and look
Tuscaloosa (/tʌskəˈluːsə/ TUSK-ə-LOO-sə) is a city in and the seat of Tuscaloosa County in west central Alabama (in the southeastern United States). Tuscaloosa is in the federal jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. There is a courthouse in Tuscaloosa simply called the Federal Courthouse. Several federal agencies operate bureaus out of the courthouse.