This is a fairly common infection of the skin caused by a fungal infection. It is also sometimes referred to pityriasis versicolor. This fungus hinders the normal pigmentation of the skin which results in discolored, small patches. These areas may be mildly itchy or flaky. This condition does not spread from person to person. Antifungal creams, shampoos or lotions may help treat tinea versicolor. But even when there is successful treatment, the skin color can remain uneven for many weeks until the repigmentation occurs and tinea versicolor may return, especially in humid, warm weather.
Tinea versicolor is a fungal infection of the skin. It's also called pityriasis versicolor and is caused by a type of yeast that naturally lives on your skin. When the yeast grows out of control, the skin disease, which appears as a rash, is the result. How Tinea Versicolor Is Treated. Treatment of tinea versicolor can consist of creams, lotions, or shampoos that are put on the skin. It can also include medication given as pills. The type of treatment will depend on the size, location, and thickness of the infected area.
Tinea versicolor can cause widespread, lighter lesions (hypopigmented). Tinea versicolor, also known as pityriasis versicolor, is a common non-cancerous (benign) skin condition caused by surface (superficial) infection with a yeast that commonly lives on the skin. Although it is an infection, tinea versicolor is not contagious, as the yeast is found commonly in the environment. Overview. Tinea versicolor can develop in people from adolescence and beyond, of all races, and of either sex.
Tinea versicolor. Tinea versicolor is a common fungal infection of the skin. The fungus interferes with the normal pigmentation of the skin, resulting in small, discolored patches. These patches may be lighter or darker in color than the surrounding skin and most commonly affect the trunk and shoulders. Sun exposure may make tinea versicolor more apparent. Tinea versicolor, which is also called pityriasis versicolor, is not painful or contagious. But it can lead to emotional distress or self-consciousness.
Pityriasis versicolor. Pityriasis versicolor is a fungal infection of the skin and is caused by a type of yeast that naturally lives on your skin. It's also sometimes called tinea versicolor. When the yeast grows out of control, the skin disease, which appears as a rash, is the result. This picture shows pityriasis versicolor on the chest of a child.
Tinea versicolor (also known as dermatomycosis furfuracea, pityriasis versicolor, and tinea flava) is a condition characterized by a skin eruption on the trunk and proximal extremities. 