Directions. 1  In large skillet, heat oil over medium heat; cook red pepper until slightly softened, about 3 minutes. 2  Whisk together eggs, milk, salt and pepper; pour into pan and cook, drawing spatula across bottom of pan to form large soft curds, until eggs are thickened and moist but no liquid remains, about 4 minutes. 1 Whisk together eggs, milk, salt and pepper; pour into pan and cook, drawing spatula across bottom of pan to form large soft curds, until eggs are thickened and moist but no liquid remains, about 4 minutes. 2  Sprinkle cheese down centre of each tortilla; spoon 1/3 cup (75 mL) of the egg mixture over cheese
4. Seal the egg roll. To prevent the egg roll from unwrapping in the deep fryer, you need to seal the seams; this also prevents oil from filling the inside of the egg roll. In a small dish or bowl, place a beaten egg
1 Meanwhile, in a large bowl, whisk the eggs, soy milk and salt. 2  Reduce heat to medium; add egg mixture to skillet. 3  Cook and stir until eggs are completely set. 4  Spoon 2/3 cup mixture down the center of each tortilla; roll up. 5  Yield: 6 servings. 1 Add tomatoes; saute 1-2 minutes longer. 2  Meanwhile, in a large bowl, whisk the eggs, soy milk and salt. 3  Reduce heat to medium; add egg mixture to skillet. 4  Cook and stir until eggs are completely set. 5  Spoon 2/3 cup mixture down the center of each tortilla; roll up. 6  Yield: 6 servings.
1 Add egg mixture; cook and stir over medium heat until eggs are completely set. 2  Stir in cheese and ham. 3  Spoon egg mixture down the center of each tortilla; roll up. 4  Freeze option: Wrap cooled egg wrap in plastic wrap and freeze in a resealable plastic bag for up to 1 month. 5  To use, thaw in refrigerator overnight. Directions. 1  In a small bowl, whisk the eggs, milk and pepper. 2  In a large skillet, heat oil. 3  Add egg mixture; cook and stir over medium heat until eggs are completely set. 4
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 1 egg 1/3 cup water 2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt In a medium bowl, beat the egg. Mix in the water. In a large bowl, combine the flour and salt. Create a well in the center of the mixture and slowly pour in the egg and water. Mix well. If the mixture is too dry, increase the amount of water one teaspoon at a time until a pliable dough has formed. On a lightly floured surface, knead the dough until elastic. 
1 To make the egg tortilla. 2  Spray a small pan with cooking spray and heat to medium heat. 3  In a small bowl, lightly beat the eggs, milk and a pinch of salt and pepper. 4  Slowly pour half the egg mixture (about 1/4 cup) into the preheated pan. 5  Cover and cook until the top looks set and slightly bubbles, about 1- 3 minutes. 1 Spray a small pan with cooking spray and heat to medium heat. 2  In a small bowl, lightly beat the eggs, milk and a pinch of salt and pepper. 3
Directions. 1  In a large nonstick skillet, saute peppers in oil until tender. 2  Add tomatoes; saute 1-2 minutes longer. 3  Meanwhile, in a large bowl, whisk the eggs, soy milk and salt. 4  Reduce heat to medium; add egg mixture to skillet. 5  Cook and stir until eggs are completely set. 1 Add tomatoes; saute 1-2 minutes longer. 2  Meanwhile, in a large bowl, whisk the eggs, soy milk and salt. 3  Reduce heat to medium; add egg mixture to skillet. 4  Cook and stir until eggs are completely set. 5  Spoon 2/3 cup mixture down the center of each tortilla; roll up. 6  Yield: 6 servings.