Schizoaffective disorder is a chronic mental health condition characterized primarily by symptoms of schizophrenia, such as hallucinations or delusions, and symptoms of a mood disorder, such as mania and depression.
1 Residual schizophrenia -- a person is no longer experiencing delusions or hallucinations, but has no motivation or interest in life. 2  Schizoaffective disorder --a person has symptoms of both schizophrenia and a major mood disorder such as depression.
There are several types (subtypes) of schizophrenia, some of which are listed below: This type of schizophrenia is characterized by a combination of schizophrenia and mood (affective) disorder symptoms. Some experts disagree on whether this is a type of schizophrenia or a type of mood disorder. Some even wonder whether it should be treated as a distinct disorder.
1 In the other types of schizophrenia, at least one of the above symptoms is very prominent. 2  But in undifferentiated schizophrenia, none are prominent. 3  However, as with all the types, it is possible that at a different point in time the individual will meet the criteria for one of the other types.
1 Schizoaffective disorder (a disorder similar to schizophrenia but with prominent mood episodes) or other mood disorder have been ruled out. 2  In the other types of schizophrenia, at least one of the above symptoms is very prominent. 3  But in undifferentiated schizophrenia, none are
There are two types of schizoaffective disorder: bipolar type and depressive type. The bipolar type of schizoaffective disorder is characterized by the illness including at least one manic episode. The depressive type of this illness involves only major depressive episodes as the mood disorder part of the illness.
Schizoaffective disorder can be difficult to diagnose because it has symptoms of both schizophrenia and either depression or bipolar disorder. There are two major types of schizoaffective disorder: bipolar type and depressive type. To be diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder a person must have the following symptoms.