Reactivity Profile-Description of the chemical's potential reactivity with other chemicals, air, and water. Also includes any other intrinsic reactive hazards (such as polymerizable or peroxidizable). Reactive Groups-List of reactive groups that the chemical is assigned to, based on its known chemistry. Reactive groups are categories of chemicals that react in similar ways because their chemical structures are similar. Reactive groups are used to predict reactivity when you add a chemical to MyChemicals. Fire Hazard-Description of the chemical's fire hazards (such as flammability, explosion risk, or byproducts that may evolve if the chemical is burned). Health Hazard-Description of the chemical's health hazards (such as toxicity, flammability, or corrosivity).
Trimethylamine is a nitrogenous base and can be readily protonated to give trimethylammonium cation. Trimethylammonium chloride is a hygroscopic colorless solid prepared from hydrochloric acid. It is a gas at room temperature but is usually sold in pressurized gas cylinders or as a 40% solution in water. Trimethylamine is a product of decomposition of plants and animals.
Identifying information, including synonyms, ID numbers, use type, chemical classification, a link to a list of all products containing this chemical and a list of the top crops this pesticide is used on in California. Signs and symptoms of poisoning, first aid, and links to treatment information for this chemical. Water quality standards and physical properties affecting water contamination potential. Toxicity to aquatic organisms. List of chemicals in the same family, including breakdown products, salts, esters, isomers, and other derivatives.
Triethylamine is the chemical compound with the formula N(CH 2 CH 3) 3, commonly abbreviated Et 3 N. It is also abbreviated TEA, yet this abbreviation must be used carefully to avoid confusion with triethanolamine or tetraethylammonium, for which TEA is also a common abbreviation. It is a colourless volatile liquid with a strong fishy odor reminiscent of ammonia and is also the smell of the hawthorn plant. Like diisopropylethylamine (Huenig’hünig s), base triethylamine is commonly encountered in organic. synthesis
Trimethylamine is an organic compound with the formula N(CH 3) 3. This colorless, hygroscopic, and flammable tertiary amine has a strong fishy odor in low concentrations and an ammonia-like odor at higher concentrations. It is a gas at room temperature but is usually sold in pressurized gas cylinders or as a 40% solution in water. Trimethylamine is a product of decomposition of plants and animals. It is the substance mainly responsible for the odor often associated with rotting fish, some infections, bad breath and can be a cause of vaginal odor due to bacterial vaginosi
Loading... Synthesis of 2-nitroglycals from glycals using the tetrabutylammonium nitrate-trifluoroacetic anhydride-triethylamine reagent system and base-catalyzed Ferrier rearrangement of acetylated 2-nitroglycals. Dharuman S, Gupta P, Kancharla PK, et al. J. Org. Chem.
Triethylamine is the active ingredient in FlyNap, a product for anesthetizing Drosophila melanogaster. Triethylamine is used in mosquito and vector control labs to anesthetize mosquitoes. This is done to preserve any viral material that might be present during species identification. It is a colourless volatile liquid with a strong fishy odor reminiscent of ammonia and is also the smell of the hawthorn plant. Like diisopropylethylamine (Huenig’hünig s), base triethylamine is commonly encountered in organic. synthesis
Triclopyr, triethylamine salt-Identification, toxicity, use, water pollution potential, ecological toxicity and regulatory information. Note: See Working with the Information on this Page section below for important notes about this data. Water quality standards and physical properties affecting water contamination potential. Toxicity to aquatic organisms. List of chemicals in the same family, including breakdown products, salts, esters, isomers, and other derivatives.
Basis for revised IDLH: The revised IDLH for triethylamine is 200 ppm based on acute inhalation toxicity data in animals [Carpenter et al. 1948; Izmerov et al. 1982; Nielsen and Yamagiwa 1989; Smyth et al. 1951]. This may be a conservative value due to the lack of acute inhalation toxicity data for workers. NIOSH REL: The 1989 OSHA PEL may not be protective to workers. Current OSHA PEL: 25 ppm (100 mg/m 3) TWA. 1989 OSHA PEL: 10 ppm (40 mg/m 3) TWA, 15 ppm (60 mg/m 3) STEL. 1993-1994 ACGIH TLV: 5 ppm (12 mg/m 3) TWA, 15 ppm (36 mg/m 3) STEL. Description of substance: Colorless liquid with a strong, ammonia-like odor.