There's truth to the adage you are what you eat.. It's especially relevant when managing inflammation and reducing swelling in your joints. While some foods can make things worse, there are plenty of tasty anti-inflammatory foods that can ease swollen joints, finger pain, and even symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. 
According to the National Center on Physical Activity and Disability, garlic is known for its anti-inflammatory properties, which can help to decrease the swelling and inflammation associated with arthritis. People who suffer from arthritis might be able to lead a more pain-free life by adding garlic to their diets. Peel fresh garlic cloves and eat them raw or cooked. In order to get the maximum benefit of the herb’s healing properties, garlic should be mashed or roasted. Eating raw garlic can irritate the stomach and digestive tract, so garlic should be roasted to make it easier to digest.
1 Garlic can reduce pain and inflammation in people with RA. 2  Garlic inhibits the formation of free radicals that can cause joint damage. 3  Garlic is anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal and may protect against some cancers. 4  Garlic has cardiovascular benefits. 1 Garlic is anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal and may protect against some cancers. 2  Garlic has cardiovascular benefits. 3  It can reduce blood pressure and cholesterol which help to protect against atherosclerosis which means a reduction in chance of heart attack and stroke.
Photo Credit Zerbor/iStock/Getty Images. The word arthritis means inflammation. Rheumatoid arthritis is a painful condition caused by inflammation of the lining of the joints, while in osteoarthritis, the cartilage in weight-bearing joints such as the knees and spine is most often affected. Pain and stiffness in the joints are primary symptoms of arthritis. Peel fresh garlic cloves and eat them raw or cooked. In order to get the maximum benefit of the herb’s healing properties, garlic should be mashed or roasted. Eating raw garlic can irritate the stomach and digestive tract, so garlic should be roasted to make it easier to digest.
1 Garlic inhibits the formation of free radicals that can cause joint damage. 2  Garlic is anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal and may protect against some cancers. 3  Garlic has cardiovascular benefits. 1 Garlic is anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal and may protect against some cancers. 2  Garlic has cardiovascular benefits. 3  It can reduce blood pressure and cholesterol which help to protect against atherosclerosis which means a reduction in chance of heart attack and stroke.
Garlic has a theoretical benefit for pain and arthritis when taken orally. There are many ways you can take garlic. You can eat the cloves raw or cooked. You’ll also find it in powdered or dried form and in capsules or tablets. It’s also available in liquid extracts and in oils. Always talk to a doctor before you try garlic as a remedy for arthritis or other pain.
1 Reply. 1  Garlic can reduce pain and inflammation in people with RA. 2  Garlic inhibits the formation of free radicals that can cause joint damage. 3  Garlic is anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal and may protect against some cancers. 4  Garlic has cardiovascular benefits. 5  Studies have shown that eating both cooked and raw garlic together provided a ... 1 Garlic is anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal and may protect against some cancers. 2  Garlic has cardiovascular benefits. 3  It can reduce blood pressure and cholesterol which help to protect against atherosclerosis which means a reduction in chance of heart attack and stroke.
The symptoms of arthritis can actually prevent you from living your life to its fullest, and your pain and inflammation may persist in spite of medical intervention or treatment. However, a natural approach to arthritis treatment can help alleviate the issue without risk of additional side effects. 
Garlic is LIKELY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth. Garlic has been used safely in research for up to 7 years. When taken by mouth, garlic can cause bad breath, a burning sensation in the mouth or stomach, heartburn, gas, nausea, vomiting, body odor, and diarrhea. These side effects are often worse with raw garlic. Garlic may also increase the risk of bleeding. The fresh clove or supplements made from the clove are used for medicine. Garlic is used for many conditions related to the heart and blood system. These conditions include high blood pressure, high cholesterol, coronary heart disease, heart attack, and “hardening of the arteries” (atherosclerosis).