Pediatric Patients. The usual initial dose of oral LASIX in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. If the diuretic response is not satisfactory after the initial dose, dosage may be increased by 1 or 2 mg/kg no sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose. The usual initial dose of LASIX is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Ordinarily a prompt diuresis ensues. If needed, the same dose can be administered 6 to 8 hours later or the dose may be increased.
LASIX is available as white tablets for oral administration in dosage strengths of 20, 40 and 80 mg. Furosemide is a white to off-white odorless crystalline powder. It is practically insoluble in water, sparingly soluble in alcohol, freely soluble in dilute alkali solutions and insoluble in dilute acids. ® (furosemide) is a potent diuretic which, if given in excessive amounts, can lead to a profound diuresis with water and electrolyte depletion. Therefore, careful medical supervision is required and dose and dose schedule must be adjusted to the individual patient’s needs.
The recommended starting Lasix dosage for high blood pressure is Lasix 40 mg twice daily. Based on the initial blood pressure response and/or side effects of Lasix, your healthcare provider may increase (or decrease) your dose if necessary. High Blood Pressure. The recommended dose of Lasix for fluid retention (edema) can vary between 20 mg and 600 mg daily (taken as a single dose or divided and taken more frequently). Some people will only need to take Lasix when they need it (when they are experiencing water retention). Others need to take Lasix on a daily basis
DOSAGE AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION. The recommended dose of furosemide is 0.5 mg/lb of body weight, or approximately 1.0 mg/kg of body weight. Tablets are available (human preparations), or large boluses (bovine formulation), but the usual route of administration for horses is intravenous or intramuscular. 
Adults. The usual initial dose of LASIX is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Ordinarily a prompt diuresis ensues. If needed, the same dose can be administered 6 to 8 hours later or the dose may be increased.
The usual dose of furosemide in dogs and cats is 1-2mg/pound once or twice a day (at 6 to 8 hour intervals). Cats will usually get the lower dose. Higher doses can be given depending on the severity of symptoms. Discard the opened bottle of Oral Solution after 90 days. The usual dose is 1-2mg per pound of pets body weight given once or twice daily (at 6 to 8 hour intervals) or as directed by your veterinarian. Cats will usually get the lower dose (1mg per pound of pets body weight once a day).
Lasix (Furosemide) Dosage. Your doctor will decide what dose you should take based on your condition and medical history. Never stop taking Lasix or alter your dose without your doctor's approval. Adults who have fluid retention problems will typically begin with a single dose of 20 milligrams (mg) to 80 mg. The dose in children will vary based on what your doctor deems appropriate. Adults who have high blood pressure often begin with 40 mg, twice per day
Adults. The usual initial dose of LASIX for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. Dosage should then be adjusted according to response. If response is not satisfactory, add other antihypertensive agents. The usual initial dose of LASIX is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Ordinarily a prompt diuresis ensues. If needed, the same dose can be administered 6 to 8 hours later or the dose may be increased.
Generally, the recommended starting dosage for treating water retention in children is 2 mg per kilogram per day, up to a maximum of 6 mg per kilogram per day. The dose of Lasix ® (furosemide) your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: High Blood Pressure. The recommended dose of Lasix for fluid retention (edema) can vary between 20 mg and 600 mg daily (taken as a single dose or divided and taken more frequently). Some people will only need to take Lasix when they need it (when they are experiencing water retention). Others need to take Lasix on a daily basis.