Hydrolyzed protein diets help food-allergic dogs by providing such small protein molecules that an allergic reaction is virtually impossible. Your dog’s immune system should not perceive the miniscule protein molecules as a threat and therefore should not respond by creating an allergic reaction. In addition to helping alleviate food allergy symptoms, hydrolyzed protein diets can also help treat: 1  colitis. 2  idiopathic diarrhea. 3  inflammatory bowel disease. 4  otitis externa.
The hydrolyzed proteins are paired with carbohydrates that don't often cause allergic reactions such as potatoes or rice as opposed to corn or wheat. Hill’s Prescription Diet Z/D Canine is a hydrolyzed protein dog food using hydrolyzed chicken as its protein source and potatoes as the carbohydrate. Royal Canin Veterinary Diet Canine Hypoallergenic uses hydrolyzed soy as its protein source and rice as a carbohydrate. Certain companies producing hypoallergenic dog foods use meats -- called novel ingredients -- that are less common as allergens. Instead of using chicken, beef, lamb or other commonly used meats, a hypoallergenic dog food may use whitefish, buffalo, duck or similar rarely used protein sources.
Royal Canin uses hydrolyzed soy protein and rice to provide nutrition for both puppies and adult dogs with food allergies. It also contains ingredients to improve a dog’s skin and coat, as well as balancing a dog’s digestive system. This highly digestible diet is available in a dry formula only. In addition to helping alleviate food allergy symptoms, hydrolyzed protein diets can also help treat: 1  colitis. 2  idiopathic diarrhea. 3  inflammatory bowel disease. 4  otitis externa.
Depending on the food, hydrolyzed proteins are used for different purposes. Hydrolyzed yeast is used as both a flavor enhancer and a as a hypoallergenic alternative for yeast protein. Hydrolyzed soy and chicken are used as hypoallergenic alternatives to the whole food forms of these protein sources and are often used in prescription or sensitive skin diets to combat food allergies. Hydrolyzed yeast is by far the most common type of hydrolyzed protein in dog food and is in about 2% of all foods. Common Benefits or Risks of Hydrolyzed Protein. The idea behind using hydrolyzed proteins as a way to combat allergies is derived from the hydrolysis process, which breaks down the protein into small components.
According to Wikipedia, hydrolyzed protein is protein that has been hydrolyzed or broken down into its component amino acids. As the name implies, the process of hydrolysis will include adding water to separate the amino acids. Common Benefits or Risks of Hydrolyzed Protein. The idea behind using hydrolyzed proteins as a way to combat allergies is derived from the hydrolysis process, which breaks down the protein into small components.
For a food trial, it's best to have a single protein source and a single carbohydrate source (or a hydrolyzed protein diet) that the dog has NEVER eaten (referred to as a “novel protein” and “novel carbohydrate”). A commercial diet is not the best for a trial. For example, if you use a food with five protein sources (i.e., turkey, chicken, duck, salmon, and tuna) and your dog develops an allergy to it, you now have to find a food that doesn’t contain any of these protein sources. This can be challenging.
Hydrolyzed Protein Dog Food. Hydrolyzed protein dog food is made when the protein ingredients are broken down into tiny pieces -- so tiny that the dog's immune system doesn't trigger an allergic reaction. Certain companies producing hypoallergenic dog foods use meats -- called novel ingredients -- that are less common as allergens. Instead of using chicken, beef, lamb or other commonly used meats, a hypoallergenic dog food may use whitefish, buffalo, duck or similar rarely used protein sources.
Hydrolyzed protein dog food is a fairly new development in pet foods, and several manufacturers offer them as an option for dogs with food allergies. Let’s look at the different brands to see which ones may be best if your dog is diagnosed with a food allergy. In addition to helping alleviate food allergy symptoms, hydrolyzed protein diets can also help treat: 1  colitis. 2  idiopathic diarrhea. 3  inflammatory bowel disease. 4  otitis externa.
Another common recommendation by traditional vets is to feed a hydrolyzed protein diet. These diets are supposedly an alternative to novel protein diets, but I don't recommend them for a number of reasons. A hydrolyzed protein diet contains a single regular protein, let's say chicken, which is a common allergenic food. 
Hydrolyzed Protein is also used in the manufacturing process of certain specially formulated Hypoallergenic Dog Foods for dogs and puppies that suffer from allergies caused by certain protein and carbohydrate types in standard commercial dog food brands. Hydrolyzed protein is protein that has been hydrolyzed or broken down into its component amino acids.