Origin of the name Ethel: Originally a short form of any of the various Old English compound names containing the element aethel (noble), Ethel is now an independent name in its own right. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Nicknames for Ethel: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Ethel : | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Ethel: | Edit. Ethel Barrymore, American Academy-winning stage and screen actress.
English Meaning: The name Ethel is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ethel is: From Aethelind, the Old English name meaning noble snake. Diminutive of Etheldreda, from the Old English name Aethelthryth, meaning noble and strength. Diminutive of Eldreda from Alfred, meaning old counsel, or sag
The name is from the Old English aethel (meaning 'noble, honorable'); it evolved as a short form of various rare Anglo-Saxon names beginning with 'Ethel-', such as Etheldreda, Ethelburga ('noble fortress'), Ethelgiva ('noble gift'), and Ethelinda ('noble snake'). [ 2 syll. et-hel, eth-el ] The baby girl name Ethel is also used as a boy name, though it is far more popular for girls. It is pronounced EH-TH-ahL †. Ethel's origin is Old English, and its use, English. Older forms of the name include Aethel (Old English) and Athala (Germanic
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Ethel is a name we once declared as 'So Far Out They'll Probably Always Be Out,' but with the return of other names on that list and with its new starbaby cred via Lily Allen, its soft sound and admirable meaning, we're not so sure. At the turn of the last century, when Ethel Barrymore was the belle of Broadway, her first name was wildly popular, a Top 10 name for sixteen year and in the Top 100 until 1939. Other well-known bearers have been musical stars Ethel Merman and Ethel Waters and Robert Kennedy 's widow.
Ethel is a contracted form of the English Etheldreda. Ethel is also a contracted form of the English Ethelinda. The name Ethel is used to a great extent; it has 28 forms that are used in English and foreign languages. [ 2 syll. et-hel, eth-el ] The baby girl name Ethel is also used as a boy name, though it is far more popular for girls. It is pronounced EH-TH-ahL †. Ethel's origin is Old English, and its use, English. Older forms of the name include Aethel (Old English) and Athala (Germanic)
The name Ethel is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Ethel is: noble. Teutonic Meaning: The name Ethel is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Ethel is: noble. In English the meaning of the name Ethel is: From Aethelind, the Old English name meaning noble snake. Diminutive of Etheldreda, from the Old English name Aethelthryth, meaning noble and strength.
Short form of names beginning with the Old English element aeðel æðel meaning. Noble it was coined in the 19th, century when Many Old english names were. Revived it was popularized by the 'Novels The' (newcomes) 1855 By William Makepeace thackeray 'And The Daisy' (chain) 1856 By. C. M. yonge Short form of names beginning with the Old English element aeðel æðel meaning. Noble it was coined in the 19th, century when Many Old english names were. revived
Ethel (also aethel) æthel is An Old english word meaning. Noble it is frequently attested as the first element In-Anglo saxon, names both masculine and, feminine.e. Æthelhard, Æthelred, Æthelwulf; Æthelburg, Æthelflæd, Æthelthryth (æthelwulf). aethelburg æthelburg aethelflaed æthelflæd aethelthryth æthelthryth audrey It is frequently attested as the first element in Anglo-Saxon names, both masculine and feminine, e.g. Æthelhard, Æthelred, Æthelwulf; Æthelburg, Æthelflæd, Æthelthryth (Aethelburg).
Ethel /eth-el/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ETH-el. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Ethel is  noble . Short form of old names containing ethel like Etheldreda. First used as an independent name in the 1840s, and made somewhat popular then by a character named Ethel in Thackeray's novel The Newcomes (1855). Actresses Ethel Barrymore, Ethel Merman.