In the case of wetlands, the Clean Water Act itself was pretty broad and could be interpreted expansively or narrowly, and the trend lately has been to reduce EPA's authority. And that has made it more difficult for EPA and states to do their jobs.. Some wetlands are a gray area for the Clean Water Act.
The EPA is now required to reduce global warming emissions under the Clean Air Act because they endanger public health. The agency has started to move forward to reduce global warming pollution from power plants, cars, trucks, and other large industrial polluters.
So it’s great to see a new report — “ The Clean Air Act’s Economic Benefits: Past, Present and Future ” [PDF], from M.J. Bradley & Associates, the Main Street Alliance, and the Small Business Majority — that reviews the available research on the cumulative costs and benefits of the Clean Air Act.
State and local governments also monitor and enforce Clean Air Act regulations, with oversight by the EPA. This legislation has a 40-year track record of cutting dangerous pollution and has prevented more than 400,000 premature deaths and hundreds of millions of cases of respiratory and cardiovascular disease.
How effective has the Clean Water Act been at reducing pollutant mass emissions to the Southern California Bight over the past 35 years? Lyon GS(1), Stein ED.
Clean Water Act is remarkably successful. Steve Pawlowski: The examples of how the Clean Water Act has protected Arizona's waters are numerous and varied.
The Clean Water Act (CWA) of 1972 was designed to eliminate pollution from America's waters, but experts have yet to reach a consensus on what constitutes clean water.
The Clean Air Act, originally passed in 1973 and amended in 1990, is a United States federal law designed to protect human health and the environment from the effects of air pollution.
Attacks on the Clean Air Act. Adding global warming to the emissions limited by the Clean Air Act has caused considerable controversy. Numerous attempts are being made in the U.S. Congress and fossil fuel industries to stop or limit the EPA from acting on its findings (see Attack on the Clean Air Act).
Dear EarthTalk: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency had its 40th anniversary in 2010. How effective has the EPA been and what are its biggest challenges today?— Bill A., Seattle, Wash. By most accounts the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which turned 40 in December 2009, has been very effective.