Immediately obvious on the map is the Zambezi River, acting as the border between Zambia to the north and Zimbabwe to the south. Many camps are located on the northern riverbank, apart from the Islands of Siankaba which can be spotted on its own island in the river towards the western end of the map. 
Royal Zambezi Lodge is located on the banks of the Zambezi River with over 3 kilometres of river frontage and lies on the edge of the Lower Zambezi National Park. It is situated on the Zambezi River at one of its broadest points and lies opposite the famous Mana Pools Reserve in Zimbabwe. These GMAs together add 14,453 square kilometres of protected wildlife area to the National Park. Royal Zambezi Lodge is located in the Chiawa Game Management Area. This GMA area is 2,344 square kilometres and is divided into 2 areas.
History covers them all. Since the ancient history to the life of Scientist Nikola Tesla. The zambezi river is born in Zambia but then it runs throug Angola, namibia, bostwana, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Mozambique where it empties into the Indian ocean. 
The Zambezi Region, until 2013 known as the Caprivi Region, is one of the 14 regions of Namibia, located in the extreme north-east of the country. Over 90,000 people live in the Zambezi Region, about four percent of Namibia's population. The population is mostly composed of subsistence farmers who make their living on the banks of the Zambezi, Kwando, Linyati and Chobe Rivers.
Upper Zambezi. From the source the river flows to the south-west out of Zambia and into Angola for about 240 km (150miles). When it re-enters Zambia it is approximately 400m (1300ft) wide in the rainy season and is fast flowing at Cholwezi rapids and the Chavuma Falls. The Power of the Zambezi River has been harnessed along its journey at two points, the first being Kariba Dam in Zimbabwe and the second Cahora Bassa Dam in Mozambique. Both these dams are sources of hydroelectric power and supply a large portion of power to Zambia, Zimbabwe and South Africa
The Real Africa. Zambia is a magnificent land-locked country located in the heart of Africa and home to the majestic Victoria Falls. These GMAs together add 14,453 square kilometres of protected wildlife area to the National Park. Royal Zambezi Lodge is located in the Chiawa Game Management Area. This GMA area is 2,344 square kilometres and is divided into 2 areas.
Description. The Zambezi Source National Monument is located in Mwinilunga, one of the seven districts in the North-western Province of Zambia. The Source of the Zambezi River is itself located some 53 Kilometres on the Northwest of Mwinilunga in Mukangala area and the total area of the site is 36 hectors.
The Zambezi (also spelled Zambeze and Zambesi) is the fourth-longest river in Africa, the longest east flowing river in Africa and the largest flowing into the Indian Ocean from Africa. The area of its basin is 1,390,000 square kilometres (540,000 sq mi), slightly less than half that of the Nile. Eastward of the source, the watershed between the Congo and Zambezi basins is a well-marked belt of high ground, running nearly east-west and falling abruptly to the north and south. This distinctly cuts off the basin of the Lualaba (the main branch of the upper Congo) from that of the Zambezi.
The Lower Zambezi National Park is surrounded by three game Management Areas (GMAs): Luano in the north, Rufunsa to the east and the Chiawa GMA to the West. These GMAs together add 14,453 square kilometres of protected wildlife area to the National Park. Royal Zambezi Lodge is located in the Chiawa Game Management Area. This GMA area is 2,344 square kilometres and is divided into 2 areas. The Chiawa communities live in its western part which makes up 94% of this GMA