Definition of Jargon. Jargon is a literary term that is defined as a use of specific phrases and words by writers in a particular situation, profession or trade. These specialized terms are used to convey hidden meanings accepted and understood in that field. Jargon examples are found in literary and non-literary pieces of writing. Jargon, on the other hand, is broadly associated with a subject, occupation or business that makes use of standard words or phrases frequently comprising of abbreviations e.g. HTH, LOL. However, unlike slang, its terms are developed and composed deliberately for the convenience of a specific section of society.
Each of these different types of jargon is used as a shorthand by people in-the-know to make communicating easier. By learning the jargon for a particular industry, you can develop a deeper understanding of its culture and commonly-used phrases. 1  Link/Cite. Jargon is like a type of shorthand between members of a particular group of people, often words that are meaningless outside of a certain context. Following are some examples of jargon that will help illustrate the concept
Examples of Jargon Words-sometimes used in Business. Ahead in the count If someone refers to your business as one that is ahead in the count, you're doing very well. This is an example of baseball jargon that refers to when the pitcher-ahead in the count-has more strikes than balls against a batter. Swot Analysis. Some of the most popular examples of jargon words use acronyms (initials) to shorten what would otherwise be a very lengthy term. A SWOT analysis is a business term often used by business consultants.
Quote. &raquo more... What is or is not the jargon is determined by whether the word is written in an intonation which places it transcendently in opposition to its own meaning; by whether the individual words are loaded at the expense of the sentence, its propositional force, and the thought content. In computer jargon D is called the least significant byte. She read through the notes on the first page as she returned, unable to make out Wynn's medical jargon and short hand. Further research of the domain name handbook located a glossary of common terms which will explain any domain name jargon or technical terms.
Jargon Meaning and Definition in Wikipedia. Jargon is a special way to use words that are shared only by a certain group of people. They do not mean what the dictionary says they mean. 
comments powered by Disqus. Jargon is like a type of shorthand between members of a particular group of people, often words that are meaningless outside of a certain context. Following are some examples of jargon that will help illustrate the concept
1 Special words or expressions used by a profession or group that are difficult for others to understand: legal jargon. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  This is the essential function of a cliche, cliché and of cant and; jargon to neutralise expression ‘and vanish’.  memory Modern life is full of jargon, language used by a particular group that is difficult for other people to understand. It comes from Old French jargoun ‘the warbling of birds’, and in medieval English meant ‘twittering, chattering’ and also ‘gibberish’.