Like us on Facebook. Large animals tend to live longer (sometimes much more so) than smaller ones*. A cat is going to live longer than a rat, you’re going to live longer than a cat and a Galapagos tortoise is going to live longer than you. The world’s smallest mammal, the bumblebee bat, is thought to live 5 to 10 years, while the largest, the blue whale, lives for 80 to 90.
As a practicing veterinarian of over twenty years, I’ve been nagged by an obvious and seemingly unanswerable question: why do small dogs live longer than large dogs? For years it’s been widely accepted and understood in the pet world that tiny teacup poodles will live ten or more years longer than a Great Dane. They’re both dogs, share the same basic DNA, eat the same types of foods, and live in similar homes. Yet one breed lives up to three times longer.
A mixed breed dog is not more likely to live longer than a pure breed. A bigger determinant of dog life span is the size of the dog. Little dogs generally live longer than big … dogs. The most long-lived little dog may live up to twice as long as the most short-lived big dog. Hybrid vigor refers to the fact that if a dog is bred from a mix of breeds it may be less likely to have problems caused by a recessive gene that may prevail in one breed. 
A. It is true that the small, or toy, breeds live longer. The Chihuahua, for example, has a life expectancy of 16 to 18 years. The larger the dog, the shorter its life. Great Danes rarely live more than 8 years. In the simplest terms, there is less strain on the organs (liver, heart, lungs, etc.) of a small dog to keep it alive and much more strain on those of larger dogs
It is widely known and accepted that small dogs live longer than large dogs. For example, a Great Dane is considered “senior” at 5 years of age, while a small poodle or Chihuahua is barely considered middle aged at the same age. Another theory has to do with concentrations of growth hormone. Studies suggest that small dogs have lower concentrations of the growth hormone IGF-1, in their blood than big dogs. Lower concentrations of IGF-1 shows reduced risk of age-related diseases and longer lifespans.
The scientists found that larger dogs appeared to age at a faster rate than smaller dogs. Interestingly, the research concluded that every increase in 4.4 pounds (2 kg) reduces life expectancy by approximately one month. Okay, so my observations on small dogs living longer than big dogs were correct. For years it’s been widely accepted and understood in the pet world that tiny teacup poodles will live ten or more years longer than a Great Dane. They’re both dogs, share the same basic DNA, eat the same types of foods, and live in similar homes. Yet one breed lives up to three times longer.
Normally, across species, larger mammals live longer than their smaller counterparts; for instance, elephants can get up to 70 years old in the wild, while house mice reach only 4 years. Puzzlingly, within species, the opposite seems true — in mice, horses and perhaps even humans. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It's certainly true that very large dogs tend to come with more health problems because their bodies simply can't take the strain of their size-Great Danes and St Bernards and the like are simply 'too big'!! 
The phenomenon is well known to dog lovers: Dogs from bigger breeds don’t live as long as smaller ones. The small breeds have an average life expectancy of 12 to 14 years; for larger breeds, it's 8 to 10; and for the so-called “giant breeds,” lifespan is 5 to 8 years. A cat is going to live longer than a rat, you’re going to live longer than a cat and a Galapagos tortoise is going to live longer than you. The world’s smallest mammal, the bumblebee bat, is thought to live 5 to 10 years, while the largest, the blue whale, lives for 80 to 90.
do small dogs live longer than big dogs, and if so how much longer, my sister bought my parents a 1yr old male maltese shitzu. Answer. James -. Small dogs do tend to have a longer lifespan than larger dogs. Small dogs tend to live until they are between 12-15 years; large dogs tend to live to between 8-11 years old depending on the breed of the dog. These numbers are average; big dogs can live long lives far into their teens with good healthcare and good breeding. 