Currency converter-convert your currency into Euros with our live currency converter. The currency in Spain is the Euro. You can use the currency converter below to convert Euros into your currency or vice versa. All rates are quoted live. The currency converter will give you a live update of the Euro exchange rate against all the major World currencies. e.g. to see what the Euro is compared to the Dollar or UK pound
Currency of Spain. Spain currency or the currency used in Spain is Euro as it is located in southern portion of Europe.Being a part of the European Union and the Euro zone, Spain adopted the common European Currency Euro(symbol: €) in the Year 2002. However, although Euro is the official currency, there are people in Spain, specially of the older generations, who still feel comfortable to transact money in terms of the old Spain Currency ,Pesetas. It is in some parts of rural Spain that prices are still mentioned in Pesetas but finally are always paid in Euro.
The official currency used in Spain since 2002 has been the Euro. The Euro is the official currency of Spain and twelve other European countries including neighbouring France and Portugal. 
The currency used in Madrid is the Euro. Madrid is the capital of Spain. If you are traveling to Madrid, you will need to exchange your currency for the Spanish Euro. 
Report Abuse. The currency of Madrid, is the same currency as the rest of Spain. (currencies are generally decided by countries, not cities, these days. Like for the last 400 years or so.) And the same as most of the rest of Europe. It's the Euro. 
On This Page: Spain's currency and the best way to exchange your dollars into euros. Spain is a member of the European Union (EU). In 2002 the euro was implemented as the common currency for most EU member countries. For the traveler, this means one can move from many EU countries to the next without stopping to exchange currency. 
World Map / Spain Map / Spain Currency. Spain currency or the currency used in Spain is Euro as it is located in southern portion of Europe.Being a part of the European Union and the Euro zone, Spain adopted the common European Currency Euro(symbol: €) in the Year 2002. However, although Euro is the official currency, there are people in Spain, specially of the older generations, who still feel comfortable to transact money in terms of the old Spain Currency ,Pesetas. It is in some parts of rural Spain that prices are still mentioned in Pesetas but finally are always paid in Euro.
This meant that a person from any of the countries of the European Union could now travel into Spain without worrying about currency exchange. Prior to the year 2002 Pesetas was the Spain Currency.But that was a thing of the past and since 2002 it has been Euro that is the official money currency used in Spain. However, although Euro is the official currency, there are people in Spain, specially of the older generations, who still feel comfortable to transact money in terms of the old Spain Currency ,Pesetas. It is in some parts of rural Spain that prices are still mentioned in Pesetas but finally are always paid in Euro.
Currency. The Euro is the official currency of Spain. The Euro was launched in two stages. First, in January 1999, to became the new official currency of 11 EU Member States, replacing the old national currencies -- such as the Spanish Peseta. It was introduced in the virtual form for bank transactions. 