Disc Desiccation. Disc desiccation refers to the loss of fluid in the intervertebral discs of the spine. The result is wear and tear of the discs as well as the vertebrae that manifests as acute pain in the back. To know more about desiccation of discs, read on... Disc desiccation is almost always the first indication of disc degenerative disease. An MRI helps detect a desiccated disc. A CT scan or an X-ray can also detect damaged discs. It is very important to provide timely medical attention to
Disc desiccation is abnormal dryness of the discs. Disc desiccation is common in older people and it can occur in any area of the spine from top to bottom. In fact, most people will experience some degree of disc desiccation in their lives. I will start with what this is. Disc desiccation means the intervertebral disc (the cushion between the vertebrae) is drying out and hardening. L5-S1 is the location: betwee … n the fifth (last) lumbar (back) vertebra and the first sacral (pelvic) vertebra.
The desiccation or dehydration of the disc material is known as disc desiccation. Between each vertebrae of the spinal column are discs that have gelatinous material. This water-like substance acts as a cushion and a shock absorber. Desiccation of disc material is most common in elderly people and can happen anywhere in the spinal column from the top to the bottom. Most people experience some amount of disc desiccation in their lives.
Disc desiccation is an extremely common degenerative change of intervertebral discs. The incidence climbs with age, and to a large degree a gradual desiccation is a 'normal' part of disc aging. It results from replacement of the hydrophilic glycosaminoglycans within the nucleus polposus with fibrocartilage. 
To understand disc desiccation, it is first necessary to understand a few other terms. To begin with, vertebrae are bones that form an opening in which the spinal cord passes. These bones are stacked one on top of another. Each individual bone that makes up the vertebrae is called a vertebra. I will start with what this is. Disc desiccation means the intervertebral disc (the cushion between the vertebrae) is drying out and hardening. L5-S1 is the location: betwee … n the fifth (last) lumbar (back) vertebra and the first sacral (pelvic) vertebra.
Multilevel disc desiccation is a health condition of the spine. This health condition or disease is the loss of fluid between the discs of the spine. This fluid or jelly acts … as cushion for the spine against pain. Multilevel disc desiccation is a degenarative disease. I will start with what this is. Disc desiccation means the intervertebral disc (the cushion between the vertebrae) is drying out and hardening. L5-S1 is the location: betwee … n the fifth (last) lumbar (back) vertebra and the first sacral (pelvic) vertebra.
Disc Desiccation Facts. It must be noted that degenerative disc disease is not a condition of the elderly, as the name implies. In fact, we all have the signs of it by 30 and many of us have it in our teens. I was diagnosed with moderate lumbar degenerative disc disease at 16. Disc Desiccation Definition. Desiccation simply means to lose water. The intervertebral discs are composed mostly of water, as is most of our anatomy. As discs age, it is normal for them to lose moisture content, as well as their ability to retain moisture.
While nagging and low grade pain is the most common symptom associated with disc desiccation, some of the other symptoms associated with the condition include the following, 1  Pain is located around the lower back region and may radiate down to the hips or the thighs. Disc Desiccation is considered to be a degenerative disorder which affects the lumbar spine. While this condition is linked with degeneration, it affects one third of all people between the age group of 30 to 50 years.
Disc desiccation is another of the many diagnostic terms for disc degeneration, also known as degenerative disc disease. When discs desiccate, they dry out and shrink, losing mass, circumference and diameter. Desiccation causes the nucleus to lose its ability to rehydrate, so the entire disc structure slowly deteriorates over time. The annulus becomes brittle and may develop small cracks or holes, called annular tears.
Disc desiccation is another term used virtually interchangeably for degenerative disc disease. Actually, desiccation is the very first step in the DDD process, when discs first start to show the physical changes associated with the spinal aging progression. Disc Desiccation Definition. Desiccation simply means to lose water. The intervertebral discs are composed mostly of water, as is most of our anatomy. As discs age, it is normal for them to lose moisture content, as well as their ability to retain moisture.