Zandu Maha Sudarshan Churna. Zandu Maha Sudarshan Churna is a definite remedy for pyrexia, sudarshana contains bitter ingredients 53 in number. Swertia Chirata is the main herb. Sudarshana has capacity to even threat fever associated symptoms as dyspepsia, loss of appetite, diaphoretic, anorexia fatigue and Nausea. 1/2 to 2 teaspoonful of Zandu Maha Sudarshan Churna with water three times a day. Zandu Maha Sudarshan Churna Zandu Maha Sudarshan Churna is a definite remedy for pyrexia, sudarshana contains bitter ingredients 53 in number. Swertia Chirata is the main herb
MAHA SUDARSHAN CHURNA: It is Safe, Effective and Traditional formulation for all types of fever. It is illustrated that way in text. Lord Krishna’s Sudarshan chakra is powerful and defeats all enemies, same way this Maha Sudarshan Churna is powerful to cure the all type of fever. Maha Sudarshan Churna is effective in Malaria, Typhoid, Influenza, intermitlent fever and many other types
Jaundice can be cured successfully with only Maha Sudarshan Churna. Poor Digestion,Feverishness,Heat in the body, Blood impurities, Common Cold,Headache,Acidity,Worms,Skin disease etc.It regulates bile flow and maintains liver function, clears the bowels and improves digestion. Packing—100 gm. It is illustrated that way in text. Lord Krishna’s Sudarshan chakra is powerful and defeats all enemies, same way this Maha Sudarshan Churna is powerful to cure the all type of fever. Maha Sudarshan Churna is effective in Malaria, Typhoid, Influenza, intermitlent fever and many other types.
It is traditionally used in the treatment of fever. It is used in India since many centuries. Sudarshan Churna is also known as Sudarshan Choornam, Sudarshana Choorna, Sudarshana Churna etc. Kirata Tikta – Swertia chirata – a potent antiviral herb is the main ingredient of Sudarshan Churna. Traditionally Sudarshana Churna is used in the treatment of fever originating from all the three doshas, chronic fever. It is one of the widely used Ayurvedic medicine for fever. It is also good for liver, spleen.
Ships usually within 2 days. Sudarshan Ghanvati & Tablet, Maha Sudarshan Churna. Diaphoretic and Diuretic. Zandu Sudarshan Ghanvati & Tablet, Maha Sudarshan Churna-Extensively used in Fever, Dyspepsia, Loss of appetite, Fatigue and Nausea. SUDARSHAN GHANVATI TABLETS. 120 Tablets (3 x 40 Tabs) : $ 18.95 X nos. Zandu Sudarshan Ghanvati and Tablet, Maha Sudarshan Churna-Ayurvedic Proprietary Medicine Therapeutic Benefits: Extensively used in Fever Dyspepsia Loss of appetite Fatigue and Nausea. A definite remedy for pyrexia, sudershana contains bitter ingredients 53 in number
Safe, Effective and Traditional formulation for all types of fever. It is illustrated that way in text. Lord Krishna’s Sudarshan chakra is powerful and defeats all enemies, same way this Maha Sudarshan Churna is powerful to cure the all type of fever. Maha Sudarshan Churna is effective in Malaria, Typhoid, Influenza, intermitlent fever and many other types.
Mahasudarshan churna is made by mixing many herbal medicine and its ingredients are helpful in balancing all three dosha ie vata, pitta and kapha to boost immunity and gives strength to body to fight against any viral or parasite infection like seasonal viral, malaria, Enlargement of liver and spleen. 
Jaundice can be cured successfully with only Maha Sudarshan Churna. Poor Digestion,Feverishness,Heat in the body, Blood impurities, Common Cold,Headache,Acidity,Worms,Skin disease etc.It regulates bile flow and maintains liver function, clears the bowels and improves digestion. Lord Krishna’s Sudarshan chakra is powerful and defeats all enemies, same way this Maha Sudarshan Churna is powerful to cure the all type of fever.