Tweet. The area around the Grand Canyon is called the Grand Canyon Village Historic District. It contains the Grand Canyon Village, which is an official census-designated location. It contains historic landmark buildings and is located on Grand Canyon's South Rim in Coconino County, Arizona. Located about 80 miles southeast of Grand Canyon National Park, Flagstaff is the nearest major city with over 60,000 residents. Traveling about 80 miles northwest of the North Rim, you will find Kanab, Utah, while Page, Arizona, is approximately 120 miles northeast.
Size. Las Vegas is the closest major city to Grand Canyon West, where the Skywalk is located. At 120 miles from Las Vegas, the Skywalk is a popular day trip. The Skywalk is a horseshoe-shaped structure with a glass-bottom path that allows visitors to look straight down thousands of feet into the canyon. The Grand Canyon is located in northern Arizona and features over 200 miles of spectacular views of mesas and valleys. There are three points of access to the canyon--the South Rim, the North Rim and Grand Canyon West, which is not part of the national park.
The Grand Canyon is located entirely in the state of Arizona. Cities Near Grand Canyon National Park. The nearest cities to the Grand Canyon South Rim are Tusayan, Williams and Flagstaff. Tusayan which is around 2 miles south of the main southern entrance to the Grand Canyon and about 7 miles from the Grand Canyon Village. Williams which is an Arizona city of around 3,000 people and is located about 60 miles south of the Grand Canyon.
Flagstaff, Arizona is the closest major city with a population of almost 60,000 and is located around 80 miles southeast of the Grand Canyon National Park. Tusayan which is around 2 miles south of the main southern entrance to the Grand Canyon and about 7 miles from the Grand Canyon Village. Williams which is an Arizona city of around 3,000 people and is located about 60 miles south of the Grand Canyon.
Near the Grand Canyon South Rim, you will find the cities of Tusayan, Williams and Flagstaff. Tusayan is very small and about 7 miles from Grand Canyon Village and 2 miles from the main southern entrance to the canyon. Williams is approximately 60 miles south of the Grand Canyon. Located about 80 miles southeast of Grand Canyon National Park, Flagstaff is the nearest major city with over 60,000 residents. Traveling about 80 miles northwest of the North Rim, you will find Kanab, Utah, while Page, Arizona, is approximately 120 miles northeast.
Depending on how you define it, the closest city to Arizona's Grand Canyon might be Tusayan or Williams or Jacob Lake or Flagstaff (all in Arizona) ... or even Las Vegas, Nevada. Technically, Tusayan is the closest geographically, but tourists often have considerations that make them look into other nearby cities. The Grand Canyon is located in northern Arizona and features over 200 miles of spectacular views of mesas and valleys. There are three points of access to the canyon--the South Rim, the North Rim and Grand Canyon West, which is not part of the national park.
Traveling to the Grand Canyon means a lot of lodging and activity options, so we've written up a quick guide to help travelers out. Arizona has quite a bit to offer between the South Rim entrance at Grand Canyon National Park to cities like Flagstaff and Williams. Each city brings something unique to the table, whether it is resort style accommodations or exciting activities. South Rim. For travelers who want to stay in more of a city setting while only a few minutes drive away from the Grand Canyon National Park should check into Williams, AZ.
This is a list of large cities closest to Grand Canyon. A big city usually has a population of at least 200,000 and you can often fly into a major airport. If you need to book a flight, search for the nearest airport to Grand Canyon. 1  160 miles to Henderson, NV. 2  169 miles to Las Vegas, NV. 3  169 miles to Paradise, NV. 
Seven miles from the South Rim and two miles from the park's entrance, Grand Canyon National Park Airport, in the small town of Tusayan, Arizona, is the closest airport to the Grand Canyon. Although the Grand Canyon is entirely in the state of Arizona, most of the air travel to the Grand Canyon comes from Nevada via Tusayan for scenic air tours offered by airlines and helicopter companies. Maverick Airlines departs from Henderson Executive Airport, 16 miles southeast of Las Vegas.