Ethene. Ethene is the smallest of the alkene series. More commonly called ethylene, it is an important intermediate in many chemical synthesis processes. Notably, it is used in the manufacture of ethylene glycol for antifreeze. It is also used in the synthesis of ethanol
Aliphatic hydrocarbons with one double bond between carbons are called alkenes. They follow the naming convention of the alkanes except that the suffix-ene is used instead of-ane. For alkenes above propene the position of the double bond must be specified in the name. Ethene is the smallest of the alkene series. More commonly called ethylene, it is an important intermediate in many chemical synthesis processes. Notably, it is used in the manufacture of ethylene glycol for antifreeze.
Alkenes. Alkenes are hydrocarbons that contain a carbon-carbon double bond. The number of hydrogen atoms in an alkene is double the number of carbon atoms. For example, the molecular formula of ethene is C 2 H 4, while for propene it is C 3 H 6. Alkenes are 'unsaturated' - meaning they contain a double bond double bond: A double bond is a covalent bond resulting from the sharing of four electrons (two pairs) between two atoms. . The presence of this double bond allows alkenes to react in ways that alkanes cannot.
Alkenes. Alkenes are hydrocarbons that contain a carbon-carbon double bond. The number of hydrogen atoms in an alkene is double the number of carbon atoms. For example, the molecular formula of ethene is C 2 H 4, while for propene it is C 3 H 6. The table shows three alkenes. Alkenes are unsaturated, meaning they contain a double bond double bond: A double bond is a covalent bond resulting from the sharing of four electrons (two pairs) between two atoms. . The presence of this double bond allows alkenes to react in ways that alkanes cannot.
Alkenes. Note that the name of all alkene hydrocarbons ends in ...ene eg, ethene, propene, butene etc. All alkenes have single C H bonds, and from propane onwards, C C single bonds as well as the characteristic functional group C=C bond. A hydrocarbon, e.g. an alkene, can only consist of carbon and hydrogen atoms. 
It is the simplest alkene (a hydrocarbon with carbon-carbon double bonds), and the second simplest unsaturated hydrocarbon after acetylene (C 2H 2). Ethylene is widely used in chemical industry, and its worldwide production (over 109 million tonnes in 2006) exceeds that of any other organic compound. Ethylene (IUPAC name: ethene) is a hydrocarbon which has the formula C 2H 4 or H 2 C=CH 2.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Its alkene because eth en e would be alk en e and for example eth an ol would be alk an e. Edit: The molecular formula of ethene (IUPAC name ethylene) is C2H4. The two carbon atoms will form a double bond (with each other) and single bonds with the 4 remaining H atoms. Alkenes are carbon compounds that have atleast one double bond present in their structure. Hence ethene is an alkene. 
Ethylene (or IUPAC name ethene) is the simplest alkene hydrocarbon, consisting of four hydrogen atoms and two carbon atoms connected by a double bond. Because it contains a double bond, ethylene is called an unsaturated hydrocarbon. 
In organic chemistry, an alkene is an unsaturated hydrocarbon that contains at least one carbon –carbon double bond. Alkene, olefin, and olefine are used often interchangeably (see nomenclature section below). Acyclic alkenes, with only one double bond and no other functional groups, known as mono-enes, form a homologous series of hydrocarbons with the general formula C n H 2n. The simplest alkene, ethylene (C 2 H 4), which has the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) name ethene is the organic compound produced on the largest scale industrially.