The genetic code is traditionally represented as an RNA codon table because, when proteins are made in a cell by ribosomes, it is mRNA that directs protein synthesis. The mRNA sequence is determined by the sequence of genomic DNA. With the rise of computational biology and genomics, most genes are now discovered at the DNA level, so a DNA codon table is becoming increasingly useful. The DNA codons in such tables occur on the sense DNA strand and are arranged in a 5' → 3' direction. 
If it was one DNA letter for one amino acid then you could only code for a maximum of four amino acids. Two letters in every possible combination could code for up to sixteen amino acids. Still, not enough. But three DNA letters provide more than enough combinations to code for all twenty amino acids. 
triplet code-the normal version of the genetic code in which a sequence of three nucleotides codes for the synthesis of a specific amino acid. genetic code-the ordering of nucleotides in DNA molecules that carries the genetic information in living cells. 
If each triplet of nitrogenous bases on DNA codes for a specific amino acid. 20 aminoacids. Edit. Share to: 1  5 of the Best College Scholarships for Triplets Sending kids to college isn't cheap. 2  The cost of a child's education can extend anywhere from thousands to hundreds of thousands of dollars. It is indeed, with the only difference that the mRNA will contain Uracil in stead of thymine But the codon itself would code for the amino acid proper for the codon of t … he DNA sequence.
Confidence votes 34.5K. A DNA triplet is three consecutive nitrogenous bases in the code of DNA. We divide up DNA into sections of three because when the DNA is transcribed into mRNA and the mRNA is translated, the three bases of the mRNA (now called codons) determine which amino acid will be made.
DNA (DNA = deoxyribonucleic acid) • DNA is the genetic material of all living cells and of many viruses. • DNA is: an alpha double helix of two polynucleotide strands. • The genetic code is the sequence of bases on one of the strands. • A gene is a specific sequence of bases which has the information for a particular protein. • DNA is self-replicating-it can make an identical copy of itself. Protein Synthesis Gene-A section of DNA containing a particular sequence of bases that codes for a specific protein. Protein Synthesis-The transcription of a specific DNA base sequence into mRNA and its translation, by a ribosome, into a particular amino acid sequence forming a protein.
The sequence of amino acids in a protein determines its structure and function. The DNA code is a triplet code [triplet code: the genetic code made by a triplet of bases in the DNA chains: AAA; GCT; CAT etc] . 
A series of codons in part of a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule. Each codon consists of three nucleotides, usually corresponding to a single amino acid. The nucleotides are abbreviated with the letters A, U, G and C. This is mRNA, which uses U (uracil). DNA uses T (thymine) instead. The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded within genetic material (DNA or mRNA sequences) is translated into proteins by living cells.
The triplet code in biology refers to the genetic code of three nucleotide bases on RNA that dictate the specific sequence of amino acids that make up a protein. As you probably know, there are 20 common amino acids that are used to make cell proteins. Since the genetic code is made from RNA, the bases are AUCG. There is a 'start' codon (a three-base triplet that codes for an amino acid is called a codon), and three different 'stop' codons.
In fact, even two nucleotides per amino acid (a doublet code) could not account for 20 amino acids (with four bases and a doublet code, there would only be 16 possible combinations [4 2 = 16]). Thus, the smallest combination of four bases that could encode all 20 amino acids would be a triplet code. However, a triplet code produces 64 (4 3 = 64) possible combinations, or codons. Thus, a triplet code introduces the problem of there being more than three times the number of codons than amino acids.