1 A full-time employee who maintains a balance of at least 80 hours of sick leave also will be able to use an additional 64 hours of sick leave per year for these purposes, bringing the total amount of sick leave available for family care and bereavement purposes to a maximum of 104 hours per year.
It can be a calendar year, 12 months from the first time you take leave, a fixed year such as your anniversary date, or a rolling 12-month period measured backward from the date you use FMLA leave.
Example – an employee may not use sick leave to care for a new child under FMLA. However, if the employee qualifies for WFMLA and FMLA at the same time, the employee may use sick leave to care for a new child under the provisions of WFMLA.
Eligible employees may be entitled to leave under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) for specified family and medical reasons. Although FML is unpaid, the University requires that employees concurrently use available sick leave, 50% of Paid Time Off and Short-Term Disability (STD) benefits if available.
While on FMLA, you are required to use all of your sick time, up to 60 days. You may also choose to use vacation and personal time to cover the leave. While on FMLA, regardless of whether it is paid or unpaid, you do not accrue sick/vacation time.
If you don’t use all 12 weeks, the exact number of FMLA hours you use is deducted, and the rest is still be available for any future needs during the same 12-month period (dating from the first day you use unpaid leave).
If an employee is on FMLA, can they use say 20 hours of vacation, annual or sick leave per pay period to simply cover the costs of their benefits if they are considered a full time employee who typically works 80 hours per pay period.
1 Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) guarantees employees up to 12 weeks leave without pay in a 12-month period for a personal or family illness or emergency. 2  Paid leave (annual or sick) may be substituted as available.
Even if you don’t want to use your paid leave, your employer can require you to use it during your FMLA leave. For example, if you are out for one week recovering from surgery, and you have two weeks of paid vacation saved up, your employer can require you to use one week of your vacation time for
Further, employees may substitute a portion of their sick leave for unpaid FMLA leave to care for a spouse, son, daughter, or parent (see Federal Employees Family-Friendly Leave Act). However, an employee may not retroactively substitute paid time off for unpaid FMLA leave.