By Carrie Springer. Cinnabar is the popular name used to describe Chinese lacquerware of a striking red color known for many centuries. When first produced, the distinctive color was derived from a mineral known as cinnabar that is scientifically described as mercuric sulfide, being meta-cinnabar or massive cinnabar. This mineral is the red mercury you see in older thermometers, and it is highly toxic.
Gangue minerals associated with cinnabar include quartz, dolomite, calcite and barite. Small droplets of liquid mercury are sometimes present on or near cinnabar. The most striking property of cinnabar is its red color. Its bright color makes it easy to spot in the field and is a fascination for those who discover it.
Because cinnabar is the only important ore of mercury, the demand for mercury has driven mining activity. Mercury has many uses, but its toxicity has reduced its use in any application where reasonable substitutes can be found.
Cinnabar is the only important ore of mercury. For thousands of years cinnabar has been mined and heated in a furnace. The mercury escapes as a vapor that can be condensed into liquid mercury.
Cinnabar is a mineral that appears near volcanoes or hot springs. It is rich in mercury and, when ground into a fine powder, produces a deep red tint. It was believed at one point that the mercury's toxic effects could be neutralized with heat, but it appears that science has proven this theory incorrect.
Cinnabar is a toxic mercury sulfide mineral with a chemical composition of HgS. It is the only important ore of mercury. It has a bright red color that has caused people to use it as a pigment and carve it into jewelry and ornaments for thousands of years in many parts of the world.
Mercury is one of the basic chemical elements. It is a heavy, silvery metal that is liquid at normal temperatures. Mercury readily forms alloys with other metals, and this makes it useful in processing gold and silver.
$29.97. Qty: Cinnabar is a mineral that appears near volcanoes or hot springs. It is rich in mercury and, when ground into a fine powder, produces a deep red tint. It was believed at one point that the mercury's toxic effects could be neutralized with heat, but it appears that science has proven this theory incorrect.