Talus, or scree, is the loose rock created by physical weathering. It typically lies on a steep mountainside or at the base of a cliff. (more below). If you're writing a geologic paper, talus is the preferred term, but scree is more fun to say. This example is near Hoefn, Höfn. iceland 
Scree. Definition: the loose debris or talus accumulated at the foot of a cliff comprising angular stones and boulders. The talus or scree slopes of the Lairig Ghru, Cairngorms, produced by a combination of rock fall, debris flow and avalanches. Scree is a product of rock fall. Frost weathering of cliffs, together with other weathering processes, leads to the detachment of blocks. It is most obvious when temperatures rise rapidly after a period of sub-zero temperatures and the stones rattle down the corrie headwalls.
Scree is a collection of broken rock fragments at the base of crags, mountain cliffs, volcanoes or valley shoulders that has accumulated through periodic rockfall from adjacent cliff faces. Landforms associated with these materials are often called talus deposits. Talus deposits typically have a concave upwards form, while the maximum inclination corresponds to the angle of repose of the mean debris size. The term scree comes from the Old Norse term for landslide, skriða, while the term talus is a French word meaning a slope or embankment.
Formation of scree or talus deposits results from physical and chemical weathering and erosional processes acting on a rock face. The predominant processes that degrade a rock slope depend largely on the regional climate (temperature, amount of rainfall, etc.). Talus deposits typically have a concave upwards form, while the maximum inclination corresponds to the angle of repose of the mean debris size. The term scree comes from the Old Norse term for landslide, skriða, while the term talus is a French word meaning a slope or embankment.
scree. a steep mass of loose rock on the slope of a mountain; talus. skritha landslide]. - A mass of small loose stones that form or cover a slope on a mountain. scree. n. 1. Loose rock debris covering a slope. 2. A slope of loose rock debris at the base of a steep incline or cliff
scree. a steep mass of loose rock on the slope of a mountain; talus. skritha landslide]. - A mass of small loose stones that form or cover a slope on a mountain. scree. n. 1. (Geological Science) an accumulation of weathered rock fragments at the foot of a cliff or hillside, often forming a sloping heap. Also called: talus. [Old English scrīthan to slip; related to Old Norse skrītha to slide, German schreiten to walk].
Full Definition of SCREE. : an accumulation of loose stones or rocky debris lying on a slope or at the base of a hill or cliff: talus. See scree defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. Origin of SCREE. Scots & northern English dialect, of Scandinavian origin; akin to Old Norse skritha landslide, from skrītha to creep; akin to Old High German scrītan to go, Lithuanian skriesti to turn. First Known Use: circa 1781.
Noun. 1. scree-a sloping mass of loose rocks at the base of a cliff. talus. geological formation, formation - (geology) the geological features of the earth. scree. n. 1. Loose rock debris covering a slope. 2. A slope of loose rock debris at the base of a steep incline or cliff