Pulmonary circulation is the portion of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated (oxygen-rich) blood back to the heart. The term pulmonary circulation is readily paired and contrasted with the systemic circulation. The oxygenated blood then leaves the lungs through pulmonary veins, which return it to the left heart, completing the pulmonary cycle. This blood then enters the left atrium, which pumps it through the bicuspid valve, also called the mitral or left atrioventricular valve, into the left ventricle.
The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The heart is located in the middle compartment of the mediastinum in the chest. 
sputum. mucous secretion from the lungs, bronchi, and trachea that is ejected through the mouth, in contrast to saliva, which is the secretion of the salivary glands. Called also expectoration. sputum. mucous secretion from the lungs, bronchi and trachea which is ejected through the mouth by humans but not so in animals and it is assumed that it is swallowed. sputum cup. a small—1 inch diameter—cup on a long handle for the collection of sputum from the pharynx of a large animal. sputum specime
Age-related changes in the respiratory system bring on a decrease in lung capacity by as much as 35%; a buildup of mucus inside the respiratory passageways, increasing susceptibility to respiratory infections; and a decrease in gas exchange across respiratory membranes of the alveoli. 
Pulmonary circulation is the movement of blood from the heart, to the lungs, and back to the heart again. Deoxygenated blood leaves the heart, goes to the lungs, and then re-enters the heart; Deoxygenated blood leaves through the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery. The oxygenated blood then leaves the lungs through pulmonary veins, which return it to the left heart, completing the pulmonary cycle. This blood then enters the left atrium, which pumps it through the bicuspid valve, also called the mitral or left atrioventricular valve, into the left ventricle.
sputum. mucous secretion from the lungs, bronchi, and trachea that is ejected through the mouth, in contrast to saliva, which is the secretion of the salivary glands. Called also expectoration. induced sputum a sputum specimen produced for diagnostic tests by aerosol administration of a hypertonic saline solution. mucous secretion from the lungs, bronchi and trachea which is ejected through the mouth by humans but not so in animals and it is assumed that it is swallowed. sputum cup. a small—1 inch diameter—cup on a long handle for the collection of sputum from the pharynx of a large animal.
Asthma is a chronic (ongoing) disease of the airways in the lungs called bronchial tubes. Bronchial tubes carry air into and out of the lungs. In people with asthma, the walls of these airways become inflamed (swollen) and oversensitive. 1 A sample of mucus that you cough up is studied to see if it has cancer cells in it. 2  Bronchoscopy. 3  Doctors pass a special tube called a bronchoscope through the nose or mouth and down into the lungs. 4  They can see into the lungs and remove small bits of tissue to test.
Every cell in your body needs oxygen in order to live. The air we breathe contains oxygen and other gases. Once in the lungs, oxygen is moved into the bloodstream and carried through your body. At each cell in your body, oxygen is exchanged for a waste gas called carbon dioxide. Your bloodstream then carries this waste gas back to the lungs where it is removed from the blood stream and then exhaled. Your lungs and respiratory system automatically perform this vital process, called gas exchange. 