In February 2015 Transfield Services advised the ASX that Transfield Holdings had served it 12 months notice of termination of the right to use the name Transfield and the T logo. Both trademarks had been licenced for use from Holdings by Transfield Services since listing. In April 2009, Transfield Services announced the appointment of Dr Peter Goode as managing director and chief executive officer, succeeding Peter Watson, who had been CEO since the company was listed on the ASX.
General Info: Established in 1971, TIMEC, a subsidiary of Transfield Services Ltd., is a leading global provider of maintenance, turnaround and construction services. The firm also offers a plethora of services under categories, including safety support, high-temperature repair/inspection, specialty welding and catalyst handling. It caters to the needs of several industries, such as oil and natural gas, petrochemical, water/wastewater as well as food. TIMEC serves clients across the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, South East Asia and India.
Transfield Holdings co-owner Luca Belgiorno-Nettis wants to distance his company from Transfield Services. Transfield Services will ask investors to approve a name change to Broadspectrum Limited at its annual meeting in October, after its founding family withdrew its rights to use the Transfield name earlier in 2015. Mr Hunt said Transfield Services had rigorous reporting mechanisms to make sure alleged incidents of abuse at the detention centres were recorded and investigated. He said reports of abuse had been manipulated to try to indicate that numbers were far worse than reality.
Transfield Services assumed control of the Manus facility on 28 March 2014 and is responsible for managing both facilities, catering, maintenance, recreation and educational activities. In April 2009, Transfield Services announced the appointment of Dr Peter Goode as managing director and chief executive officer, succeeding Peter Watson, who had been CEO since the company was listed on the ASX.
The Transfield Foundation, a joint venture between Transfield Services and Transfield Holdings, was created in November 2010 and provides philanthropic support for innovation in employment and education, resources management and the arts across Australia. In April 2009, Transfield Services announced the appointment of Dr Peter Goode as managing director and chief executive officer, succeeding Peter Watson, who had been CEO since the company was listed on the ASX.
(ASX: TSE) is an Australian publicly listed corporation providing operations and maintenance, asset management, project and capital management outsourcing and infrastructure development services to the resources and industrial, infrastructure services and property and facilities management sectors. In April 2009, Transfield Services announced the appointment of Dr Peter Goode as managing director and chief executive officer, succeeding Peter Watson, who had been CEO since the company was listed on the ASX.
Transfield Holdings today sold all of its 11.3% holding in Transfield Services (ASX: TSE). At the same time, 0.4% of TSE which was owned by the Belgiorno-Nettis family and associated holdings was also sold. These sales were transacted by way of an underwritten sale to a range of institutional investors. In February 2015 Transfield Holdings served Transfield Services (TSE) a notice of termination of the right to use the name 'Transfield' and the 'T' logo. Both trademarks had been licenced for use from Holdings since TSE's listing in 2001
Transfield Holdings listed its operations and maintenance division, Transfield Services on the Australian Stock exchange in 2001. From that time, until they stepped down in 2012, Transfield Holdings' Directors, Luca and Guido Belgiorno-Nettis were also Directors of TSE. In February 2015 Transfield Holdings served Transfield Services (TSE) a notice of termination of the right to use the name 'Transfield' and the 'T' logo. Both trademarks had been licenced for use from Holdings since TSE's listing in 2001