1 Have the person immediately rinse the eye or eyes under a faucet, in a gentle shower, or with a clean container of water. 2  Keep the person’s face so that the injured eye is down and to the side. 3  Avoid spraying a high-pressure water stream into the eye or eyes. 4  Flush with lukewarm water for 15 to 30 minutes. 1 Keep the person’s face so that the injured eye is down and to the side. 2  Avoid spraying a high-pressure water stream into the eye or eyes. 3
To use emergency eye wash: 1  Immediately flush eyes for at least 15 minutes. 2  Keep the eyes open and rotate the eyeballs in all directions to remove contamination from around the eyes. 3  An injured person may need help holding the eyelids open. 1 Locate your eye wash and emergency shower. 2  An eye wash and emergency shower must be available within 10 seconds of unobstructed travel from where hazardous materials are used. 3  Keep the path clear and unobstructed to your safety equipment.
Irritants in the Eye-Chemicals   * Do Not rub your eyes.  * Immediately flood the eye with water by opening your eyes as wide as possible with your fingers.  … * Gently poor water into your eye from a container, shower head, or faucet for a minimum of 15-20 minutes.  * Roll your eyeball around as much as possible while flushing with water. Edit. Share to: if you get chemeicals in your eye go to the sink and wash your eye out with warm water for atleast 5 minutes if that doesnt work go to the hospital emergency room quickly i le … arned to do this at school im 10 years old but i am sure that this will work. 3 people found this useful
Nearly all of your vision will return within two days of surgery and many people are able to return to their usual daily routine 24 hours after the operation. You should avoid eye make-up, getting soapy water in your eyes when you wash your hair and swimming for two weeks after the operation. If you go out on a windy day, you may feel safer with sunglasses to prevent grit getting in your eye. Ask your ophthalmologist about when you can go back to work. 
1 Flush your eye with water. 2  Use clean, lukewarm tap water for at least 20 minutes. 3  Use whichever of these approaches is quickest: 4  Get into the shower and aim a gentle stream of water on your forehead over your affected eye. If a chemical splashes into your eye, take these steps immediately. 1 
Make sure the eye wash and emergency shower will be reliable when you need them. Periodically check the following: 1  Cover the eye wash spouts with caps to keep them clean. 2  Caps should be easy to remove in an emergency. 3  Look for a current date on the equipment's inspection tag. 1 Locate your eye wash and emergency shower. 2  An eye wash and emergency shower must be available within 10 seconds of unobstructed travel from where hazardous materials are used. 3  Keep the path clear and unobstructed to your safety equipment.
If there is any swelling immediately after the procedure, an ice pack should be applied for no more than 15 minutes at a time. You may experience the following for several days after the procedure. 1 Eyelashes or eyebrows sticking together in the morning. Rinse eyes with eye wash daily for 5 days. 
Periodically check the following: 1  Cover the eye wash spouts with caps to keep them clean. 2  Look for a current date on the equipment's inspection tag. 3  Call EH&S at (858) 534-3660 to report equipment problems or if your eye wash or emergency shower has not been inspected. 1 Locate your eye wash and emergency shower. 2  An eye wash and emergency shower must be available within 10 seconds of unobstructed travel from where hazardous materials are used. 3  Keep the path clear and unobstructed to your safety equipment.