The Bermudian dollar (symbol : $ ; code: BMD; also abbreviated BD$) is the official currency of the British Overseas Territory of Bermuda. It is subdivided into 100 cents. The Bermudian dollar is not normally traded outside of Bermuda, and is pegged to the United States dollar at a one-to-one ratio. Both currencies circulate in Bermuda on an equal basis. With U.S. and Canadian coins regularly appearing in circulation in Bermuda and the possibility of the devaluation of the pound sterling, Bermuda was compelled to adopt its own decimal currency. On 6 February 1970, Bermuda introduced a new decimal currency in the form of a dollar.
Bermuda's currency is the Bermudian dollar (BMD, abbreviated '$'), which is divided into 100 cents. It comes in the same denominations and sizes as US currency, except there is a one dollar coin instead of a banknote. 
Bermuda's official currency in the Bermuda Dollar which is fixed to the US Dollar. Because of the latter, the US dollar is accepted everywhere at par. British Pounds sterling, Canadian dollars, Euros and other currencies should not be brought as they cannot be used. The local-only Bermuda Dollar pictured below, is not exportable. It is not used by traders world-wide. It is not cashable or exchangeable by any foreign banks. It is used only by local citizens and residents-not by international companies based in Bermuda (all of which use US dollars).
The Bermudian Dollar is the currency of Bermuda. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Bermuda Dollar exchange rate is the USD to BMD rate. The currency code for Dollars is BMD, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Bermudian Dollar rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take BMD rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website.
The currency of Bermuda is the Bermuda dollar. There are 100 cents to the dollar. The Bermuda dollar is pegged to the US dollar on a 1-to-1 basis. Both currencies are equally acceptable at all establishments.
To show Bermuda Dollars and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Bermuda Dollar is the currency in Bermuda (BM, BMU). The symbol for BMD can be written Bd$. The Bermuda Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Bermuda Dollar was last updated on October 2, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. 
Prior to decimalisation and conversion to the dollar, the Government of Bermuda did not issue its own coins, other than the commemorative Bermuda crowns, since the 19th Century at the latest. In 1970, the Bermuda Monetary Authority introduced coinage with denominations of 1, 5, 10, 25, and 50 cents. With U.S. and Canadian coins regularly appearing in circulation in Bermuda and the possibility of the devaluation of the pound sterling, Bermuda was compelled to adopt its own decimal currency. On 6 February 1970, Bermuda introduced a new decimal currency in the form of a dollar.
Best Answer:  Bermuda dollars and US currencies are accepted interchangeably in Bermuda, trades at the same rate and carries the same symbol. All other currency (Canadian dollars, British pounds, Euros) will need to be exchanged at local banks, (HSBC Bank of Bermuda and The Bank of Butterfield). 
Money. Legal tender is the Bermuda dollar (BD$), which is divided into 100 cents. It's pegged through gold to the U.S. dollar on an equal basis -- BD$1 equals US$1. U.S. currency is generally accepted in shops, restaurants, and hotels. 
Bermuda Dollar Exchange Rate. The Bermuda dollar exchange rate is fixed at a rate of 1 BMD to 1 USD, very convenient for the island’s US visitors. The exchange rate with currencies such as the euro, pound, and Canadian dollar fluctuates from day to day. Current exchange rates for the Bermuda dollar with popular currencies are: There are 100 cents to the dollar. The Bermuda dollar is pegged to the US dollar on a 1-to-1 basis. Both currencies are equally acceptable at all establishments.