Tall fescues. Tall fescue is a perennial bunch-type grass that grows rapidly during spring and fall. Because of its bunch-type growth, spring pre emergence herbicides generally are needed to keep a lawn relatively free of weeds. Not recommended to mix with bluegrass as the bunching characteristics will create unsightly patches. Fescue grasses. The fescue is a bunch type grass, as opposed to the rhizomatic growth of bluegrass. Newer cultivars have the same rich green color as bluegrass. Tall fescue are more drought resistant that many other lawn grasses such as bluegrass or perennial ryegrass. Fescue roots penetrate deeper into the soil.
Tall Fescue grass was brought to the US in the early 1800 s for pasturage purposes and now grows in about 4/5 of our country, with turf type varieties used in lawns, on athletic fields, in parks and other areas where a cool season turf grass is desired. Tall fescues make early, fast growing lawns and pastures and the turf type fescue grass seed can provide a beautiful lawn with the following characteristics: 1  Low maintenance-a dense root system make this a drought tolerant grass-Great for the Environment. 2  Tall fescue stays green all year when properly maintained. 3  Tall Fescue is shade and heat 4  ... C
Since tall fescue is a bunch type grass and does not spread, it is necessary to overseed occasionally to maintain turf thickness. The best time of the year to overseed is in the fall. This gives the seed time to germinate, grow and develop sufficient root depth before the summer heat arrives in the following year. The other is called turf-type tall fescue and is an improved variety deveoped to have the qualities needed to be a true lawn grass. Field-Type Tall Fescue. Kentucky 31 tall fescue and Alta are examples of the older varieties. They were originally a forage grass, but were sometimes used as a turf grass.
Mow tall fescue at 2 inches during the fall and spring, raise to 3 inches in heavy shade and during the heat of the summer months. The improved turf-type varieties of tall fescue (which is what we carry) can be mowed at a height of 1.5 inches during spring and fall and 2 inches during summer months. 
It is a bunch type grass established from seeds. Tall fescue is best known for its Kentucky 31 variety, but there are also new improved turf type fescue seed available with more shade and heat resistance qualities along with other desirable traits. Tall fescues make early, fast growing lawns and pastures and the turf type fescue grass seed can provide a beautiful lawn with the following characteristics: 1  Low maintenance-a dense root system make this a drought tolerant grass-Great for the Environment. 2  Tall fescue stays green all year when properly maintained. 3  Tall Fescue is shade and heat 4  ... C
Get more information on tall fescue grass on http://www.spring-green.com. Turf type tall fescue is a common grass in the transition zone of the United States; areas like Charlotte, Nashville, St. Louis and Raleigh. It is a cool-season turf that is coarse in texture and performs best in well drained clay soils. 