They are two very different things. A bishounen or in slang is called a bishie, is a Japanese term that literally means beautiful man or boy. This often describe the certain look and sexual appeal of a man or a boy which usually transcends the boundary of gender or even sexual orientation. Bishounen have become very popular in Japanese popular culture. In anime and in manga, there are many characters out there. A bishounen and bishoujo are often seen in many anime and manga.
Here's a desctiption from Anime News Network. Moe is a Japanese term used in connection with manga or anime to describe something precious, usually (but not always) the ideal of youthful and innocent femininity. Written with the kanji for to bud or sprout (萌), the concept covers a range of ideal behaviour for youthful female characters in manga or anime. 
Best Answer: It means beautiful boy in Japanese. Usually it is abbreviated to say bishie. The genre appeals to girls, as these bishie characters are usually depicted in romantic settings. Here is more info, if you want: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bish%C5%8Dn... its a japanese term meaning beautiful youth.(Boys).Ouran Host High School Club is a Bishounen anime cuz the males r highly feminine and also the wallflower is bishounen.... basically feminine looking men.
Bishōnen (美少年, also transliterated bishounen (help·info)) is a Japanese term literally meaning beautiful youth (boy) and describes an aesthetic that can be found in disparate areas in East Asia: a young man whose beauty (and sexual appeal) transcends the boundary of gender or sexual orientation. Last, bishota can be used to refer to a beautiful, pre-pubescent male child or a childlike male. Outside Japan, bishōnen is the most well-known of the three terms, and has become a generic term for all beautiful boys and young men.
The prefix bi (美) more often than not refers to feminine beauty, and bijin, literally beautiful person, is usually, though not always, used to refer to beautiful women. Bichūnen (美中年) means beautiful middle-aged man. Last, bishota can be used to refer to a beautiful, pre-pubescent male child or a childlike male. Outside Japan, bishōnen is the most well-known of the three terms, and has become a generic term for all beautiful boys and young men.
Some, if not most non-Japanese anime and manga fans use the term, bishounen, to refer to any handsome male character regardless of their age or even any homosexual character. But in Japan, bishounen applies to all boys under 18 years of age. Bidanshi should be used for those who are older which means handsome man. In anime and in manga, there are many characters out there. A bishounen and bishoujo are often seen in many anime and manga.
The stereotypical bishounen generally has long hair, a slender, graceful figure, and lacks facial hair. Bishounen tend to appear androgynous or feminine. They are also likely to have certain personality traits, like sensitivity, secretiveness, moodiness, refinement, and a dark, tormented past. Strictly speaking, bishounen should only refer to boys under age 20, since a pretty man would be biseinen.. However, most people prefer to use bishounen for men and boys of all ages, as it is so widely used. Opinions on which males are bishounen and which are not vary according to personal tastes.
The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses). Young men around 16-30 are called seinen. Biseinen is sometimes used for a handsome young man, though not nearly as common as bishonen. Bishonen can also be spelled bishounen. A beautiful girl would be called bishoujo or bishojo.
This implies Hentai. Bishounen-Literally means pretty boy, as in an attractive member of the male gender. Opinions on which males are bishounen and which are not vary according to personal tastes. The stereotypical bishounen generally has long hair, a slender, graceful figure, and lacks facial hair. 
Some non-Japanese, especially American, anime and manga fans use the term to refer to any handsome male character regardless of age, or any homosexual character. In the original Japanese, however, bishōnen applies only to boys under 18. For those older, the word bidanshi (美男子, literally handsome man) is used. Last, bishota can be used to refer to a beautiful, pre-pubescent male child or a childlike male. Outside Japan, bishōnen is the most well-known of the three terms, and has become a generic term for all beautiful boys and young men.