Genocea Biosciences, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, discovers and develops novel vaccines and immunotherapies to treat infectious diseases. The company uses its proprietary discovery platform, AnTigen Lead Acquisition System, to design vaccine... View More. 
Founded in 2006 in Cambridge, Mass., Genocea Biosciences develops novel vaccine and immunotherapy programs that stimulate the T cell arm of the immune system. 
We are seeking an experienced and motivated ELISA Scientist to join our fast-growing company. The bioassay scientist will be responsible for ELISA method development and execution to complement clinical and preclinical vaccine development teams. We are seeking a Senior Associate to join our Analytical Development and Formulations Department in Cambridge, MA. The ideal candidate is a motivated, energetic, detail-oriented person who can provide support for analytical characterization and formulation development of protein antigens used in our vaccines.
Cutting edge technologies. Compelling solutions. Genocea’s proprietary technology platform ATLAS™ is the first of its kind to enable comprehensive profiling of T cell responses between hundreds of humans exposed to a pathogen to identify drivers of T cell response. Vaccines are recognized as the most cost-effective and successful approach to managing such diseases, yet traditional methods for discovering and developing vaccines are too slow and insufficiently comprehensive to meaningfully address the complexity of many pathogens. Learn more.
We are seeking an experienced and motivated Scientist / Sr. Scientist – Process Development and Characterization to join our Protein Production team to contribute to the development of protein-based vaccines for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases with significant impacts on human health. Read More. We are seeking a Senior Associate to join our Analytical Development and Formulations Department in Cambridge, MA. The ideal candidate is a motivated, energetic, detail-oriented person who can provide support for analytical characterization and formulation development of protein antigens used in our vaccines.
Chip Clark, CEO of Genocea Biosciences, didn’t hesitate when asked to give his top-line, scientific assessment of the company’s mid-stage trial results of its herpes vaccine. 
(TMFTypeoh). Jul 30, 2015 at 5:17PM. What: Shares of Genocea Biosciences (NASDAQ:GNCA), a biotech company with a focus on vaccines and immunotherapies, fell more than 10% today before moderating back to a 7% loss after the company announced the pricing of its recently announced $50 million public offering. So What: Genocea is selling 3.85 million shares of its common stock at a price of $13 per share, plus it is granting its underwriters the option to purchase an additional 577,500 shares at the same price.
Company Overview. Genocea Biosciences, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, discovers and develops novel vaccines and immunotherapies to treat infectious diseases. Announces Unaudited Consolidated Earnings Results for the Second Quarter and Six Months June 30, 2015. Genocea Biosciences, Inc. announced unaudited consolidated earnings results for the second quarter and six months June 30, 2015. For the quarter, the company reported grant revenue of $115,000. Loss from operations was $10,026,000 compared to $6,909,000 a year ago
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. What: Shares of Genocea Biosciences (NASDAQ:GNCA) , a biotech company with a focus on vaccines and immunotherapies, fell more than 10% today before moderating back to a 7% loss after the company announced the pricing of its recently announced $50 million public offering. So What: Genocea is selling 3.85 million shares of its common stock at a price of $13 per share, plus it is granting its underwriters the option to purchase an additional 577,500 shares at the same price.