1 Some states allow lawyers in Small Claims Court but a few prohibit them. 2  Even if lawyers are allowed, having an attorney represent you at an hourly rate of $100-$300 and up quickly totals more than the maximum amount of money awarded in Small Claims Court. 1
The fee for filing in small claims court depends on the amount of the claim: $30 if the claim is for $1,500 or less, $50 if the claim is for more than $1,500 but less than or equal to $5,000, or $75 if the claim is for more than $5,000. 
The small claims court is the low-hassle way to take legal action for up to 10,000 against a firm or individual. But be confident you've got a case as you'll be stuck with the fees if you lose. The small claims court is the low-hassle way to take legal action for up to 10,000 against a firm or individual. But be confident you've got a case before you start as new fees mean you'll now pay twice as much
1 Generally, the cost to file for small claims court is not that expensive. 2  There are always fees that you need to pay, but each court house will have different fees and charge different amounts for those fees. 1 If you are in the state of New Jersey, for example, you can check out their Judiciary Department’ s website which shows that the cost to file a complaint in small claims can be just $2 to $15 per defendant. 2  As has been previously mentioned, small claims court filing can differ from one state to another.
Small Claims Court Fees. Taking somebody to the Small Claims Court in the UK will cost you money, there is a sliding scale of costs depending on how much you claim, for example, if you are claiming £1000 from a person or business, it will cost you £140 * in Court fees. If you are claiming for £4000, the fees will be £465 *. (*These are the total Court fees to take a Small Claims case, in England & Wales, through to a Judgment, figures correct as at Jan 2013). There are three separate sliding scale court fees that make up the figure(s) quoted above, each fee is payable separately.
1 You have to do that yourself, and there could be additional filing fees for a lien or to garnish wages. 2  Nolo Press offers an e-guide on how to Settle Your Small Claims Dispute Without Going to Court for $15.95, and the book, Everybody's Guide to Small Claims Court, which retails for $29.99. 1 Even if lawyers are allowed, having an attorney represent you at an hourly rate of $100-$300 and up quickly totals more than the maximum amount of money awarded in Small Claims Court.
There may also be costs of collecting any judgment that you may receive from the small claims court if the defendant does not pay willingly. 1  Filing Fees: Currently, filing fees are generally $30 for suits up to $1,500, $50 for up to $5,000 and $75 up to $10,000. 1 If your claim is for more than the limit, you have to give up the balance of the claim to sue in small claims court. 2  As an example, a corporation with a claim for $6,000 would only be able to sue for the limit allowed a corporation, $5,000. 3  That corporation could not say that there were two $3,000 claims
1 If you are unable to pay for filing fees in small claims court, you can apply to qualify as an indigent. 2  When you do this, the judge of the court may consider waiving the filing fees depending on your situation. 3  If you can settle the matter out of the court, this is the best way to save you money. 1 If you are in the state of New Jersey, for example, you can check out their Judiciary Department’ s website which shows that the cost to file a complaint in small claims can be just $2 to $15 per defendant. 2  As has been previously mentioned, small claims court filing can differ from one state to another.
1 There are no lawyers allowed in small claims court, so you are only paying the court house for its time and facilities. 2  On average, plan on spending anywhere from $25 to as much as $300 for the filing fees. 3  This will widely vary depending on your geographical location and the type of claim that you are trying to make. 1 If you are in the state of New Jersey, for example, you can check out their Judiciary Department’ s website which shows that the cost to file a complaint in small claims can be just $2 to $15 per defendant. 2  As has been previously mentioned, small claims court filing can differ from one state to another.