Enzyme supplements. Improving the digestive process with enzyme supplements can reduce flatulence. Natural digestive aids such as bromelain tablets (from pineapple) or papain tablets (from papaya) can help digestion and reduce farting. It is caused by improper or incomplete digestion of certain foods. Beans, lentils and cabbage are some of the vegetables that cause excessive gas and odors. Digestive enzymes, especially those specifically made to reduce flatulence, is the most common remedy for excessive gas.
The fruit, as well as the other parts of the papaya tree, contain papain, an enzyme that helps digest proteins. This enzyme is especially concentrated in the fruit when it is unripe. Papain is extracted to make digestive enzyme dietary supplements and is also used as an ingredient in some chewing gums. 
Vitabase Papaya Chewable also includes alpha amylase enzyme. Amylase is the name for enzymes that break down starch. While papain works to break down meat in your digestive tract, amylase helps digest starch and carbohydrates like those found in potatoes, rice, beans, and cereals. Vitabase Papaya Chewable is an easy-to-take, great-tasting tablet. Including Papaya Chewable in your diet can help support healthy digestive function. If the system malfunctions, the results can be felt in every other body system. Enzymes Help Break Down Food for Easier Digestion Papaya (Carica papaya) has long been enjoyed as a delicious food, but now it is also recognized as a safe and natural digestive aid.
Papaya contains a variety of digestive enzymes. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Papaya enzymes, which are extracted from the fruit, are used for a variety of natural health treatments. Most notably, the enzyme papain is known for its ability to aid digestion and settle upset stomachs. Symptoms of impaired digestion include stomach upset, heartburn and gas, which can cause significant discomfort. Using papaya enzymes to treat your gas may also help increase the amount of nutrients your body can extract from the foods you eat by enhancing the effectiveness of digestion.
Animals also produce enzymes to break down the foods they eat. These are called digestive enzymes. Unfortunately, many of the processed foods we eat are lacking necessary enzymes. Some people may benefit from taking natural enzymes with meals to help digest food. 
They promote digestion by helping to break down proteins from food into amino acids that can be recombined to produce protein useable by humans. Proteolytic enzymes protect the body from inflammation and help heal burns. They do a good job of digesting unwanted scar tissue both on the skin and under its surface. Enzymes from papaya digest proteins including those that protect tumors. The fruit and other parts of the papaya tree, also known as the paw paw tree, contain papain and chymopapain, powerful proteolytic enzymes that facilitate chemical reactions in the body.
Print. Share. Papain is a powerful digestive enzyme commonly found and extracted from the papaya fruit (Carica papaya) , it is also referred to as papaya proteinase. The papaya-enzyme papain plays a key role in digestive processes involving breaking down tough protein fibers. This formula contains digestive enzymes, which help digest fats (lipids), sugars, proteins, carbohydrates, gluten, fruits and vegetables, cereals, legumes, bran, nuts and seeds, soy, dairy, and all other food sources.
That's what these cute little papaya enzymes do. Papain, the enzyme from papayas-sometimes blended with bromelain, a digestive enzyme from pineapple-helps break down what you've eaten so your tummy doesn't have to work so hard. It's also helpful to take with meals containing beans. We all know what they can do! Throw some digestive enzymes into the mix to tame them.
The different types of enzymes (and the foods that contain them) are: • Protease, which digests proteins. This can be found in broccoli, spinach, figs, romaine lettuce, guava, pineapple, ginger root, papaya, green plants, mushrooms, soy beans, kidney beans, wheat and kiwi. • Amylase, which digests carbohydrates. 