Got a credit card that has a temporary credit line of $500, but a credit line of $1000. What does that mean? Is it just $500 for now and when will it go to a $1000? Thanks! 
Learn 5 facts about credit cards to help your credit score. credit card facts, facts about credit cards, credit facts, facts about credit Bank of America 5 key facts about credit cards A credit card can be a great financial tool if you use it wisely-but believing myths about credit cards can cost you money. Fact: Applying for new credit accounts for up to 10% of your credit score, even if you don't use the card. Frequently applying for new credit can hurt your credit score, so make sure you really need that new card before you apply for it.
You can only transfer an amount up to your credit limit on the new card. So if your credit limit is $5,000 on the new card and you want to transfer a balance of $6,000, you will only be able to transfer up to $5,000 (including any balance transfer fee) of that existing balance. If you have a high balance on a store credit card with a 21% APR, for instance, you may be able to transfer that debt to a credit card with a lower rate, saving you money on interest—and possibly helping you pay down your debt faster.
Instead of using your real credit card number when you check out online, your credit card issuer gives you an alternate set of digits, often for one-time use, that you substitute instead. The disposable number links to your account, and whatever you buy will show up on your credit card bill. Sometimes called disposable, temporary or one-time use numbers, a virtual credit card number is like putting a wall between your transaction and your regular account, says Steve Kenneally, vice president of the American Bankers Association.
DEFINITION of 'Credit Card'. A card issued by a financial company giving the holder an option to borrow funds, usually at point of sale. Credit cards charge interest and are primarily used for short-term financing. 
You do have a debit card so you have a bank. Put your bank as your credit reference. That is certainly acceptable. While I understand your reluctance to enter the world of credit cards, you might consider taking out one, charging just a couple of low priced items, and paying the bill off completely when it comes in. Also, while it's admirable that you only use cash -- keep it up -- you want to have 1 credit card. Use it once to buy a pair of socks. Then as soon as you bought the pair of socks and before the bill shows up, send off the payment. After that never use the credit card again.
1 Fiction: Applying for a new credit card will only impact your credit score if you use the card. 2  Fact: Applying for new credit accounts for up to 10% of your credit score, even if you don't use the card. Frequently applying for new credit can hurt your credit score, so make sure you really need that new card before you apply for it.
It turns out that there is meaning behind those numbers. Looking at the first number on your card: If it starts with 3, it is an American Express, Diner’s Club, or Carte Blanche; 4 is reserved for Visa, 5 for MasterCard, and 6 for Discover. The next five digits will indicate the card issuer such as the bank or credit union, as well as the type of credit card. To make matters more confusing, your credit card account number may be different from the number on your credit card. So if your new card has a new number, it can still be linked to your existing account number, which doesn’t change.
The minimum credit limit is $500 with a maximum of $25,000 for the TD Cash Rewards Visa, TD Easy Rewards Visa, TD Payment Plus Visa, TD Simply Flexible Business Visa and TD Business Solutions Visa Cards. All TD Visa Signature Cards have a minimum credit limit of $5,000. It's available to customers who have a TD Bank credit card and have signed up for TD Bank Online Banking. 1  You can access CreditView for free by logging in to TD Bank Online Banking. 2  If you're not signed up for Online Banking, please call 1-888-751-9000 or visit your nearest TD Bank location.
Credit Cards are not all that great. All a credit card does for you is use credit so you do not have to pay until later plus interest. There are many ways to help your credit score go up and never have a credit card. I should have listen to my parents advice 15 years ago and I would not be declaring bankrupcy thanks to credit and a rough year. In the same way, not using your credit but having several open accounts is also bad. Lenders will the potential debt you could get into, and if you have 10 cards with $1000 limits each, you have the potential debt of $10,000 and they actually take that into consideration when they look at your debt to income ratio.