Ryuu /ryuu/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name. Ryuu's root is Japanese, and the name Ryuu means dragon spirit. Ryuu is an alternate form of Ryu (Japanese). Compare surname Ryou. Kreatif forms: Roryuu, Ryuuce, Ryuuro. Ryuu is an uncommon given name for men. Ryuu is a rare last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ryuu for boys.
Form of: Itself (Ryuu). The meaning of the name “Ryuu” is: “Dragon”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Ryuu, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
Ryuu is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ryu-u. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Ryuu Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ryuu has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ryuu to other names. The name Ryu is a form of Ryuu. Japanese people tend to have one given name, one surname and no middle name. Like names from other Asian cultures Japanese names are presented as surname followed by given name. This current format has existed since the 1870s.
Ryuu Name Meaning. The meaning of Ryuu is “Dragon”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ryuu and its name origin or of any other name in our database. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Ryuu, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
Meaning of Ryuu. Japanese name. In Japanese, the name Ryuu means-A dragon..The name Ryuu originated as an Japanese name. The name Ryuu is most often used as a boy name or male name. Japanese Name Meaning-A dragon. Origin-Japanese.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Ryuu for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Ryuu is a boy name. The name Ryuu is of Japanese origin, and is used mostly in Japanese speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Ryuu, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
1. Dragon in Japanese. Ryuu are usually a beneficent symbol of fertility, associated with water and the heavens. Some are said to bring storms and end times of droughts. 2. a fierce and intimidating Japanese person. esp. a Women.