Here's what we found to work well: 1  Download the iOS ipsw you want. 2  We use http://www.getios.com/. 3  Connect your device to a PC running iTunes and navigate to the device page. 4  Hold down the 'Shift' key on your keyboard and click the 'Update' button. 5  Select the ipsw file and iTunes will install this version. 1
There is no 8GB model of the 3rd generation iPod touch, so if yours is 8GB, it's probably a 2nd generation. If there is an update available for your device, you can only download the latest version available. For example, if iOS 4.2.1 is the latest for your device, you cannot update to 4.0, only 4.2.1. If you have concerns about the latest update, for example, bugs in the software, do not worry. 
Maybe, if you have an iOS version lower than 5.1.1 you can update to iOS 5.1.1. If you are already at at iOS 5.1.1 you can reset the iPad, or even restore the OS toi clear any gltiches or bugs that may have developed over time. First the non destructive Reset. No data should be lost. 
How: If you prefer, you can also download the iOS 8 update on your computer and install it on your iGizmo. To do that, make sure you have the latest version of iTunes, then plug your device into your computer, select your device in the menu and click on Check for Update.. Then click Download and Update.. There's no advantage to downloading iOS 8 via a Mac or PC -- the update won't get to you any faster.
If the version of iOS you want to restore is marked as unsigned, you just can’t restore it. Once it’s downloaded, connect your iPhone or iPad to your computer and open iTunes. Click over to the device’s page in iTunes. On a Mac, hold down the Option key and click the “Restore iPhone” or “Restore iPad” button. How to Downgrade to an Older Version of iOS on an iPhone or iPad. Apple wants to keep your iPhone and iPad up-to-date. But you may want to go back to an older operating system. This is especially true if you’re trying out a beta version of iOS on your
Once you’ve downloaded the older version of the iOS, connect your device to iTunes, select it, and choose the Summary tab. Hold down the Option key and click on Restore [nameofdevice] . A navigation window will appear. Locate the iOS file you just downloaded and click Update. 
To download an earlier version of an app, follow these steps: 1  Open the App Store or Mac App Store. 2  Go to the Purchased screen on your iOS device or the Purchases tab on your Mac. 3  Find the app and choose Download. 4  You'll see a message telling you if a compatible version is available. 5  Tap Confirm to install this version. 1 Go to the Purchased screen on your iOS device or the Purchases tab on your Mac. 2  Find the app and choose Download. 3  You'll see a message telling you if a compatible version is available. 4
After a failed installation attempt, you must reinstall the last successfully installed version or a newer version of iOS. You can upgrade an iPhone to a newer version, but beware, you cannot then change back to a lower version of iOS. i.e. Once a phone is on iOS 5.1, you cannot then change it back to iOS 5.0. To do the upgrade, you use the Organiser window in XCode. 
You can download any firmware for any iOS device here. iOS Downloads. To install it, you have to go to iTunes and click on update with the alt key pressed, then you can choose the .ipsw file with the firmware you want. 2. I know that it is possible to install lower versions of IOS to jailbroken devices over various tools by creating custom firmware.The problem is we have some test devices in the company and we want to have one device eactly with IOS 4.3.