Fried foods and fast food, prepackaged meals, white flour, processed grains and all forms of sugar, raw or refined, can cause muscle and joint pain. Sugar is stressful, and blood sugar spikes can promote inflammation. Most fats can also contribute to inflammatory pain. A glass of beer in a pub Photo Credit Valentyn Volkov/iStock/Getty Images. Foods high in purines, or chemical compounds forming uric acid as they break down, can cause an excess of uric acid that is crystallized and deposited in joints and tissues in the body, causing joint pain in a condition known as gout.
Frequent or ongoing high blood sugar can cause damage to your nerves, blood vessels, and organs. It can also lead to other serious conditions. People with type 1 diabetes are prone to a build-up of acids in the blood called ketoacidosis. Blood sugar control is at the center of any diabetes treatment plan. High blood sugar, or hyperglycemia, is a major concern, and can affect people with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Very rarely, statins can cause life-threatening muscle damage called rhabdomyolysis (rab-doe-mi-OL-ih-sis). Rhabdomyolysis can cause severe muscle pain, liver damage, kidney failure and death. Rhabdomyolysis can occur when you take statins in combination with certain drugs or if you take a high dose of statins.
Although research has not proven conclusively that particular foods can increase or decrease the muscle and joint pain of rheumatoid arthritis, people who suffer from joint pain often experience gastrointestinal imbalances associated with inflammation and allergens. A glass of beer in a pub Photo Credit Valentyn Volkov/iStock/Getty Images. Foods high in purines, or chemical compounds forming uric acid as they break down, can cause an excess of uric acid that is crystallized and deposited in joints and tissues in the body, causing joint pain in a condition known as gout.
And that’s simply too much for the human body to digest effectively. Here’s what happens in your body after you eat too much sugar or processed foods 2 1  : Refined sugars enter your bloodstream. 2  Blood sugar levels rise. 3  Your pancreas is pressured to release insulin (a hormone that helps sugars get into your cells). Many of them are actually similar to how you might feel after too much alcohol. And there’s a reason for that... Too much alcohol, just like too much sugar, affects your kidneys, liver, stomach and small intestines, which explains some of what is happening in your body.
The body brings high blood sugar levels down with insulin. However, the speedy rise in blood sugar levels produces an over-response, a release of too much insulin. The result is that blood sugar levels end up being too low, something the body must also fix. One of the things that cortisol does is release stored sugar to bring blood sugar levels up. So, here’s what could happen. You eat a big meal of pasta and garlic bread, yum-yum. Maybe you eat too much, it is delicious after all. Afterward, you feel sleepy and have to lie down or veg in front of the TV for awhile.
Muscle pain and damage The most common statin side effect is muscle pain. You may feel this pain as a soreness, tiredness or weakness in your muscles. The pain can be a mild discomfort, or it can be severe enough to make your daily activities difficult. Rhabdomyolysis can cause severe muscle pain, liver damage, kidney failure and death. Rhabdomyolysis can occur when you take statins in combination with certain drugs or if you take a high dose of statins.
The pain can be so dull it can be mistaken for fatigue. Too much potassium causes pain when there's a muscle, tendon joint, or bone problem (because shortening of muscle pulls on bones, tendons, and joints). Increased strength from potassium normally increases energy, but when muscle tension from too much potassium starts, the increased strength continues but the muscle tension causes dull pain, and the dull pain and unwillingness to use muscle in pain causes fatigue.
That can lead to muscle weakness. However, muscle pain is not a common complaint among people with diabetic neuropathy. In each of these conditions, it's the diabetes (or its complications), not the high blood sugar, that causes muscle trouble. A. No, high blood sugar does not directly cause muscle pain. However, there are connections between diabetes (a condition characterized by high blood sugar) and muscle pain. For reasons that are not entirely clear, people with diabetes are prone to shoulder tendonitis