Your experience as an LPN will definitely help you become an RN but do not go in it for the money. You must like what you do as a healthcare worker. One should have a heart for others, especially the elderly. If you only want to go into it for the money,you may be miserable and should realize it is not for you. 67 months ago. i am looking into going to school for my lpn. the school is not a college, just a straight lpn program. my question is... can i go on later to get my rn on the advance track, without all the extra classes.
After you’ve made the decision to go back to school and become a nurse, there’s still another big decision ahead of you, and it comes with a debate: licensed practical nurse (LPN) versus registered nurse (RN). The biggest immediate difference between the LPN versus RN career path is the degree you’ll earn. RNs earn a professional nursing degree, while LPNs earn a practical nursing degree. A professional nursing degree consists of more courses, so it takes more time to complete than a practical nursing degree.
To get an LPN degree, you need to complete the educational requirements and training program for licensed practical nurses. If you will be accepted as an LPN student in one of the nursing schools in the country, you will be taught basic skills in nursing and participate in a clinical training program. LPN Degree Programs. LPN degree programs are academic nursing programs offered by nursing schools around the country as an answer to the rising demand of licensed practical nurses in the healthcare industry. To obtain your license as an LPN, you need to graduate from one of the LPN degree programs available. You will not be eligible to take the licensure exam for LPNs if you will not complete this degree. LPN degree programs will provide you with the knowledge and skills to work as a licensed practical nurse
Later, you can add onto your basic LPN training. You can be certified in IV (intravenous) therapy, for example. Another really great thing about choosing to start a nursing career as an LPN is that you can easily upgrade later and train as an RN. There are many schools all over the country with LPN-to-RN programs. There are even online LPN-to-RN programs. Sometimes your employer will pay for you to get more education
Bachelor's Degree Programs. For an LPN/LVN looking to become an RN, you have the option to enroll in an LPN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for LPNs and take about three years. Schools offering these programs tend to focus on nursing courses where students learn better leadership skill
Entry-level nursing programs include associate degrees, LPN-to-RN programs, and diplomas. A bachelor's degree in nursing and patient care is a good choice if you want to increase your prospects of becoming a registered nurse, and enables individuals to qualify for senior-level positions. Medical Assistant vs. Nurse. If you are passionate about providing medical care to patients or wish to give your nursing career a boost, online nursing programs can potentially open many different avenues for you in the health care industry.
Become a Licensed Practical Nurse. You can complete your LPN training in as little as 7 months to 1 year for a hospital certificate, or you can obtain a LPN degree in two years from a community college or trade school. You will also need to pass the N-CLEX-PN certificate examination to become nationally certified. When comparing licensed practical nursing schools, it's a good idea to ask what sort of training the schools provide to prepare you for the LPN certification exam.
However, an LPN degree is not a requirement should you decide to work as a registered nurse in the future. Of course, if you have experience as a licensed practical nurse, it will be easier for you to enter the RN field. LPN Degree Programs. LPN degree programs are academic nursing programs offered by nursing schools around the country as an answer to the rising demand of licensed practical nurses in the healthcare industry. To obtain your license as an LPN, you need to graduate from one of the LPN degree programs available. You will not be eligible to take the licensure exam for LPNs if you will not complete this degree. LPN degree programs will provide you with the knowledge and skills to work as a licensed practical nurse