The bad news is that even when you take precautions, many dogs will get kennel cough at some point. And if your dog is very old, very young or pregnant, the symptoms can be more severe and complications such as pneumonia can arise. To be safe, take your dog to the vet if you suspect he has kennel cough, no matter his age or condition. The kennel cough vaccine can sometimes fail to protect your dog. You know your dog was vaccinated for kennel cough, but now he's showing symptoms that look suspiciously like that very infection.
1 Puppies can receive the injectable vaccine starting at 6 to 8 weeks of age, followed by a booster between 10 and 12 weeks of age. 2  For adult dogs or puppies older than 16 weeks, the intranasal vaccine can be given once, and the injectable vaccine should be given twice, two to four weeks apart. Bordetella bronchiseptica is a bacterium commonly associated with respiratory disease in dogs. It can also infect cats, rabbits and, in rare cases, humans. It is one of the more common bacterial causes of canine infectious tracheobronchitis, which is also sometimes called kennel cough.
What is Bordetella (kennel cough)? Kennel cough in dogs is a highly contagious upper respiratory infection which can be caused by bacteria or a virus. The most common form of kennel cough is caused by the bacteria Bordetella bronchiseptica. Frequently kennel cough is caused by a combination of both bacteria and virus. Click here f or Information on Kennel Cough-Symptoms and Treatment. Your vet may prescribe an anti-biotic to prevent pneumonia and a cough suppressant if the cough is too bothersome to you or your dog. Healthy adult dogs can typically fight kennel cough off on their own.
1 Adult cats and kittens older than 16 weeks of age can receive a single intranasal vaccine. 2  Annual boosters are recommended for cats with known risk of exposure. 3  Dogs should receive boosters every 6 to 12 months, depending on exposure risk. Bordetella bronchiseptica is a bacterium commonly associated with respiratory disease in dogs. It can also infect cats, rabbits and, in rare cases, humans. It is one of the more common bacterial causes of canine infectious tracheobronchitis, which is also sometimes called kennel cough.
1 Avoid Kennel Cough vaccination if possible no matter what age your dog is. 2  If a service provider you use requests a Kennel Cough vaccine, share with them this information and be willing to sign a waiver. 3  Make sure that your dog’s immune system is in top-notch condition. More than 15 years back, I too used to use Kennel Cough vaccine because I didn’t know any better. I remember seeing absolutely healthy dogs getting kennel cough vaccine and coming back a few days later with actual symptoms of the disease.
If the person insisting on the bordetella vaccine is afraid other dogs at their establishment will contract kennel cough from your unvaccinated dog, this person clearly doesn’t trust that the vaccinated dogs actually have immunity. World-renowned vaccination scientist, Dr. Ronald Schultz, says [emphasis mine]: “Many animals receive “kennel cough” vaccines that include Bordetella and CPI and/or CAV-2 every 6 to 9 months without evidence that this frequency of vaccination is necessary or beneficial.
Note: If you decide to give the vaccine, make sure it is the intranasal form, that is, given as nose drops, not injected. And give the vaccine at least 2 weeks before contact with other dogs, for the sake of both your dog and other dogs. Don’t take my word for any of this. World-renowned vaccination scientist, Dr. Ronald Schultz, says [emphasis mine]: “Many animals receive “kennel cough” vaccines that include Bordetella and CPI and/or CAV-2 every 6 to 9 months without evidence that this frequency of vaccination is necessary or beneficial.
1 For adult dogs or puppies older than 16 weeks, the intranasal vaccine can be given once, and the injectable vaccine should be given twice, two to four weeks apart. Bordetella bronchiseptica is a bacterium commonly associated with respiratory disease in dogs. It can also infect cats, rabbits and, in rare cases, humans. It is one of the more common bacterial causes of canine infectious tracheobronchitis, which is also sometimes called kennel cough.
1 Kittens can be vaccinated intranasally as early as 8 weeks of age. 2  Puppies can receive the injectable vaccine starting at 6 to 8 weeks of age, followed by a booster between 10 and 12 weeks of age. Bordetella bronchiseptica is a bacterium commonly associated with respiratory disease in dogs. It can also infect cats, rabbits and, in rare cases, humans. It is one of the more common bacterial causes of canine infectious tracheobronchitis, which is also sometimes called kennel cough.
Also, here’s a good article about kennel cough: http://www.dogs4dogs.com/blog/2012/03/21/bordetella-does-your-dog-really-need-the-kennel-cough-vaccine/ If you need more ammunition, let me know. And remember: there are lots of groomers. World-renowned vaccination scientist, Dr. Ronald Schultz, says [emphasis mine]: “Many animals receive “kennel cough” vaccines that include Bordetella and CPI and/or CAV-2 every 6 to 9 months without evidence that this frequency of vaccination is necessary or beneficial.