Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: fluid (Noun). Any substance which can flow with relative ease, tends to assume the shape of its container, and obeys Bernoulli's principle; a liquid, gas or plasma. fluid (Adjective). Of, or relating to fluid. 
Because I am a Woman. This blog is about sex-positivity, sex-ed, feminism, reproductive justice, birth justice, intersectionality, and activism. Because I am a Woman features articles, news, opinion pieces, digital media, and original information posts on all of the topics and more.
fluid. n. 1. (General Physics) a substance, such as a liquid or gas, that can flow, has no fixed shape, and offers little resistance to an external stress. adj. 2. (General Physics) capable of flowing and easily changing shape. n. A continuous, amorphous substance whose molecules move freely past one another and that has the tendency to assume the shape of its container; a liquid or gas. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or characteristic of a fluid.
Medical Definition of FLUID. : having particles that easily move and change their relative position without a separation of the mass and that easily yield to pressure: capable of flowing. Dictionary: Definition of fluid. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for fluid. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of fluid. 
Pleural fluid analysis may be ordered when a doctor suspects that a person has a condition or disease that is causing pleuritis and/or pleural effusion. It may be ordered when someone has some combination of the following signs and symptoms 1  : Chest pain that worsens with deep breathing. 2  Coughing. 
This colloquial usage of the term is also common in medicine and in nutrition (take plenty of fluids). Liquids form a free surface (that is, a surface not created by the container) while gases do not. The distinction between solids and fluid is not entirely obvious. The distinction is made by evaluating the viscosity of the substance. 
Gender fluid people may also identify as multigender, non-binary and/or transgender. Genderfluid pride flag created by JJ Poole. Gender fluid people who feel that their strength of identification changes over time, or that they are sometimes agender, may identify as gender flux. Gender Fluid. 108 pages on this wiki. Gender fluid is a gender identity which refers to a gender which varies over time. A gender fluid person may at any time identify as male, female, neutrois, or any other non-binary identity, or some combination of identities.
flu·id. n. A continuous, amorphous substance whose molecules move freely past one another and that has the tendency to assume the shape of its container; a liquid or gas. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or characteristic of a fluid. 2
fluid-smooth and unconstrained in movement; a long, smooth stride; the fluid motion of a cat; the liquid grace of a ballerina. fluent, smooth, liquid. graceful-characterized by beauty of movement, style, form, or execution. n. A continuous, amorphous substance whose molecules move freely past one another and that has the tendency to assume the shape of its container; a liquid or gas. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or characteristic of a fluid.