Each country that signs the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoption is required to have a central authority to implement its standards. Our department is the Australian Central Authority for intercountry adoption under the convention. 
In contrast to the Hague. Service Convention, however, a Request for service under the Additional Protocol must. bear the signature and seal of the court where the United States action is pending and of. the United States Central Authority, acting through its contractor PFI. The Office of International Judicial Assistance (OIJA), acting through its contractor Process Forwarding International (PFI), also known as ABC Legal, plays a very limited role with regard to requests for service of documents coming from the United States to be served upon persons or entities in foreign countries.
Japan ratified the Convention of 15 November 1965 on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters, also called the Hague Service Convention, on May 28, 1970. The Convention’s provisions entered into force in Japan the following July 27. Articles 10(b) and 10(c): Japan objects to direct service by judicial officials and “interested persons” under the Convention. LLS can assist you with service and can help you understand and meet the requirements for service of process in Japan.
The Australian Government Attorney-General's Department is the Australian Central Authority for intercountry adoption under the Convention. As Australia is a federation, a Central Authority has also been designated in each State and Territory. The way in which an adoption is finalised depends on the process used in the country of origin and the procedures of the State or Territory. For some of Australia’s intercountry adoption programs, a final adoption order or decision is made in the country of origin.
Under this 5-year contract, ABC Legal shall perform all duties of the United States Central Authority with respect to process service. ABC shall hold the only official certificate in conformity with formal service under the Hague Service Convention. ABC Legal shall manage all formal service of process for the U.S. on judicial documents under the following treaties and conventions: Hague Service Convention, Inter-American Convention, and Letters Rogatory. The Fee is $95 for service of process within the USA and its Territories.
While all Hague Service Convention member countries maintain a national Central Authority for service of process, each of Canada’s provincial and territorial governments also maintains a Central Authority for Hague purposes (the United States, in contrast, has but a single Central Authority). The Convention of 15 November 1965 on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters, also called the Hague Service Convention, entered into force in Canada on May 1, 1989.
The Hague Service Convention established a more simplified means for parties to effect service in other contracting states. Under the convention, each contracting state is required to designate a central authority to accept incoming requests for service. Upon receiving the request, the central authority in the receiving state arranges for service in a manner permitted within the receiving state, typically through a local court. Once service is effected, the central authority sends a certificate of service to the judicial officer who made the request. Parties are required to use three standardised forms: a request for service, a summary of the proceedings (similar to a summons), and a certificate of
Adoption Australia is a national service and central point of contact for people at all stages of the intercountry adoption process including those considering applying to adopt a child from overseas. For further information, go to http://www.intercountryadoption.gov.au/about/. The way in which an adoption is finalised depends on the process used in the country of origin and the procedures of the State or Territory. For some of Australia’s intercountry adoption programs, a final adoption order or decision is made in the country of origin.
The Hague Service Convention provision for service by a Central Authority is the exclusive method for service of process in the Federal Republic of Germany. As of June 28, 1978, the United States will not charge a fee for service of judicial documents which it receives from any State Party to the Convention which does not impose a charge for service of documents sent from the United States for service under the Convention.