Part 2: Situational Analysis. The situational analysis is designed to take a snapshot of where things stand at the time the plan is presented. It covers much of the same ground covered in the Preparing a Market Study tutorial, so those preparing a Marketing Plan should check this out as well. 
The purpose of the situation analysis is to indicate to a company about the organizational and product position, as well as the overall survival of the business, within the environment. The situation analysis consists of several methods of analysis: The 5Cs Analysis, SWOT analysis and Porter five forces analysis. A Marketing Plan is created to guide businesses on how to communicate the benefits of their products to the needs of potential customer. The situation analysis is the second step in the marketing plan and is a critical step in establishing a long term relationship with customers
Formatting Your Analysis. Generally, situational analyses are summarized in a SWOT format. SWOT stands for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. This is a matrix where you document the good and bad of your current situation. In SWOT analysis, the first row (strengths and weaknesses) has an 'inside the company' perspective-i.e., what are the strengths and weaknesses inherent in your company.
The situational analysis section is one of the most important parts of a marketing plan. It outlines your company goals, strengths and weaknesses; describes your target customers; identifies your important partners and distributors; and provides an analysis of the competitive environment. Company Analysis. In the first part of the situation analysis section of your business plan, start by describing your company's marketing goals and objectives. An example of a well-written objective statement is: Use direct marketing to increase sales of our new training manual by 10 percent by August 30..
Effective Planning Requires an Accurate Situation Analysis. The situation analysis section of a marketing plan describes what is happening in the markets in which the company competes, and analyzes the company's product and distribution trends. Information in this section provides rationale and support for the marketing objectives, plans, and strategies. 
The Facts. Utilizing market research, a situational analysis will define potential customers, projected growth, competitors and a realistic assessment of your business. It involves targeting the specific objectives in the business and identifying the factors that will support or hinder those objectives. A situational analysis includes a thorough examination of internal and external factors affecting a business. It creates an overview of the organization that will lead to a better understanding of the factors that will influence its future.
A situational analysis often is called the foundation of a marketing plan. A situational analysis includes a thorough examination of internal and external factors affecting a business. It creates an overview of the organization that will lead to a better understanding of the factors that will influence its future.
The foundation of any marketing plan is the firm's mission statement. A mission statement explains the purpose of why a company is in business and what it is trying to accomplish. A company can't create a mission statement without first analyzing itself and the conditions of the environment in which it competes. The first part of the SWOT analysis is examining a company's internal strengths and weakness. In this step, a marketing manager looks internally at the company's resources, such as finances, engineering, marketing, employees and production, to see where the company excels or needs improvement.