The textolite is used as insulating material for work in transformer oil and in the air at normal relative humidity of the environment and at 50 Hz of frequency. Textolite type A: has improved electrical properties and is mostly used as insulating material. Textolite type B: same as type A, but it has improved mechanical properties and is mostly used as construction material.
Another market for Bakelite resin was the creation of phenolic sheet materials. Phenolic sheet is a hard, dense material made by applying heat and pressure to layers of paper or glass cloth impregnated with synthetic resin. Molded Bakelite forms in a condensation reaction of phenol and formaldehyde, with wood flour or asbestos fiber as a filler, under high pressure and heat in a time frame of a few minutes of curing. The result is a hard plastic material. Bakelite's molding process had a number of advantages.
I recently scored a full box of est. 1960-65 era GE Textolite laminate samples, absolute mint condition unused. This is the first bunch — the others aren’t so over-the-top FABULOUS, but still are great gauges of what to look for. OMG. What else do I need to say. We can all eat our hearts out, together, on this one. 
Glass cloth laminate and textolite. Print. Textolite is an insulating structural material used for the production of slide bearings, gears and other components. Being a good isolator, it is also used in the production of electrical appliances and components. Textolite produced from the glass fiber is called Glass Textolite, or Glass fibre laminate. Glass Textolite surpasses Textolite in such properties as: heat resistance (140-180°C against 105-125°C), volume resistivity (1011 Ohm/m against 107 Ohm/m), dissipation factor (0,02 against 0,07).
This week’s vintage catalog explores one of our favorite subjects here on Retro Renovation — vintage laminate patterns. And what a terrific find this is: A catalog full of GE Textolite laminate patterns, colors, uses and construction tips fresh from 1953. Among the practical uses for GE Textolite laminate — attractive and durable dinettes. Another great idea — make a fold down panel to cover the laundry and add extra work space — especially if the washer and dryer are located in the kitchen. Look — steel counter top edging in the bathroom too.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Textolite was a plastic manufactured by General Electric from the 1930's. Eventually, GE started making a Formika like laminateout of Textolite and simply marketed it as Textolite. I believe the laminate was made from the early 1950's until te 1980's.
Electrotechnical sheet textolite is a laminated material made by hot pressing of cotton cloths impregnated with a thermosetting phenol-formaldehyde-based binder. Textolite type A: has improved electrical properties and is mostly used as insulating material. Textolite type B: same as type A, but it has improved mechanical properties and is mostly used as construction material.
2. Textolite type A: has improved electrical properties and is mostly used as insulating material. Textolite type B: same as type A, but it has improved mechanical properties and is mostly used as construction material. Format: (1380 750) 30 mm; (1000 750) 30 mm; (1000 880) 30 mm
Bakelite (/ˈbeɪkəlaɪt/ BAY-kə-lyt, sometimes spelled Baekelite), or polyoxybenzylmethylenglycolanhydride, is an early plastic. It is a thermosetting phenol formaldehyde resin, formed from a condensation reaction of phenol with formaldehyde. It was developed by Belgian-born chemist Leo Baekeland in New York in 1907. Molded Bakelite forms in a condensation reaction of phenol and formaldehyde, with wood flour or asbestos fiber as a filler, under high pressure and heat in a time frame of a few minutes of curing. The result is a hard plastic material. Bakelite's molding process had a number of advantages.
Micarta is a brand name for composites of linen, canvas, paper, fiberglass, carbon fiber or other fabric in a thermosetting plastic. It was originally used in electrical and decorative applications. Micarta was developed by George Westinghouse at least as early as 1910 using phenolic resins invented by Leo Baekeland. Micarta industrial laminate sheet is a hard, dense material made by applying heat and pressure to layers of prepreg. These layers of laminations are usually of cellulose paper, cotton fabrics, synthetic yarn fabrics, glass fabrics, or unwoven fabrics.