A qualified public health nutritionist may also consider public health careers such as teaching basic nutrition to a subset within the community. For example, the nutritionist may provide diet and nutrition advice to people recently diagnosed with diabetes. 1 A public health nutritionist may ensure that local table salt is fortified with iodine as a dietary supplement.
Qualifications. A local public health nutritionist must possess a baccalaureate degree, with major studies in food and nutrition, from a regionally accredited or New York State-registered college or university, and be registered as a dietician. 
This type of work requires good communication skills, as a public health nutritionist will have to deal with diverse individuals, and someone who wants to become a public health nutritionist may find that it helps to have an interest in food, food policy, and other nutrition topics. A public health nutritionist can also work in an office, providing policy recommendations and developing public health initiatives, or he or she can work in the academic community, training future nutritionists and public health professionals.
To become a public health nutritionist, it is necessary to complete a training program in nutrition or dietetics, ideally with a public health focus, and to obtain certification as a registered dietitian. This can take four to six years, depending on the program or programs that the candidate completes. A public health nutritionist can also work in an office, providing policy recommendations and developing public health initiatives, or he or she can work in the academic community, training future nutritionists and public health professionals.
Dietitians may work in many of the same settings as Nutritionists, such as public health and community nutrition, research and teaching, food industry and nutrition marketing and communications. However, Dietitians are also qualified to work in private clinical practice, hospitals and the medical nutrition industry. Nutritionists may also work in a number of other roles including research, nutrition consultants and advisors, public health and health promotion officers, community development officers, quality and nutrition coordinators, food technologists, media spokespeople and more.
Clinical dietitians and nutritionists provide medical nutrition therapy. They work in hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics, private practice, and other institutions. They create nutritional programs based on the health needs of patients or residents and counsel patients on how to lead a healthier lifestyle. Clinical dietitians and nutritionists may further specialize, such as working only with patients with kidney diseases or those with diabetes. Community dietitians and nutritionists develop programs and counsel the public on topics related to food and nutrition. They often work with specific groups of people, such as adolescents or the elderly
A public health nutritionist is an expert in both food and nutrition. A public health nutritionist is an expert in both food and nutrition. These professionals advise people in at risk communities about how they can better lead a healthy way of life. This will open more doors for you in public health organizations so you can find work as a nutritionist for an agency of the government or a nonprofit in public health. A public health nutritionist will do some or all of the following tasks: Explain important nutrition issues to people in at risk communities.
Nutritionists carry out research and use scientific knowledge to provide information and advice about the effects of food and nutrition on health and wellbeing. They can also be known as community nutritionist, public health nutritionist and food for health adviser. As a nutritionist, you would work closely with dieticians and other health professionals, such as pharmacists, GPs, and hospital or community diet and nutrition teams. 