LPN to RN programs vary in length and cost, but because the LPN already has 1 year of nursing school completed, the length and cost shouldn’t be more than about 1 year for an Associate’s degree. Some schools even offer online courses and many schools have day and evening classes. Whether you are already a LPN, currently in school, or just interested in nursing, it is a good idea to consider furthering your education and career by becoming a Registered Nurse. RN is the next logical step up from LPN.
Top. 2 Not just the price per credit hour, but how much you ended up paying, in all, to get your ADN. I am enrolled in LPN school and want to do a bridge program ASAP after I graduate in a year. I know the Excelsior website tells you the price per credit hour, but I wanted to get the total price for the whole thing
When you enroll in a LPN to RN bridge program, the stage is set for furthering nursing knowledge, understanding of the human body, and climbing the career ladder. RNs are trained to be high level critical thinkers and problem solvers, they are usually in supervisory positions. Whether you are already a LPN, currently in school, or just interested in nursing, it is a good idea to consider furthering your education and career by becoming a Registered Nurse. RN is the next logical step up from LPN.
When you research the costs of the LPN to RN programs, you need to know whether or not you are interested in pursuing an associate degree or a bachelor’s degree in nursing. There is a huge difference in the cost, though the graduate of either degree takes the same nursing licensing exam. In this brief article, we will look at the general costs of the online LPN to RN programs as attending an online program could result in a savings in terms of transportation and childcare expenses. If you are a graduate of one of the online LPN programs, you know of the convenience of an online education.
RNs typically earn more and enjoy better job security. An LPN to RN bridge program is ideal for students who wish to seek leadership positions and assume more responsibilities in their nursing careers. According to The Bureau of Labor Statistics, the mean annual wage of registered nurses in 2103 was $68,910. The College Network. Accreditation. The LPN/LVN to RN program offers an exciting new way for nurses to earn their ACEN accredited degree in half the time and cost of traditional programs with NO Campus Attendance. Nurses can earn their degree in 12-18 months with no waiting list and local clinicals.
Once admitted, the student will enroll in classes either part time of full time. LPN to RN Bridge programs are offered by universities and community colleges. Average tuition at a community college starts around $17,000 for a 3 year LPN to RN Bridge program. At a regular college or university the cost can be higher. Financial aid is usually available. 
The LPN to RN Bridge track of the Professional Nursing program is based upon current nursing practice, including nursing and general education courses. Classroom theory, challenging assignments, skill labs, and clinical experiences prepare students for an entry-level RN position. 
The typical cost of the programs is per credit. Credits range from about $200 per credit to over $350. Total costs can range from $3,000 to over $30,000. The cost difference between the associate degree and the bachelor’s degree lies in the fact that the associate degree requires far less credits. In this brief article, we will look at the general costs of the online LPN to RN programs as attending an online program could result in a savings in terms of transportation and childcare expenses. If you are a graduate of one of the online LPN programs, you know of the convenience of an online education.