Skyllberg says he had been inside the car since 19 December 2011. Experts believe it is possible for the human body to survive without food for up to two months. It's not the first example of humans subsisting on next to nothing for long periods of time. 
We can't live on air and sunshine alone. The human body needs food and water to survive. A human can go for more than three weeks without food (Mahatma Gandhi survived 21 days of complete starvation), but water is a different story. At least 60% of the adult body is made of it and every living cell in the body needs it to keep functioning. Three to four days would be more typical. You can go 100 hours without drinking at an average temperature outdoors, Claude Piantadosi of Duke University told Fox.  If it’s cooler, you can go a little longer. If you are exposed to direct sunlight, it’s less.. USGSAs much as 65% of the human body is water.
If you're ever stuck out in the wilderness, remember what survival experts call 'the Rule of Threes'. You can live 3 minutes without air, though we don't recommend trying. In a harsh environment — it's snowing, say — you have 3 hours to survive without shelter. After 3 days, you need water or you'll perish. You can make it 3 weeks without food, though we promise you that won't be fun. Despite this possibly helpful rule, some people have survived 8 to 10 days without water.
A person can survive only three to five days without water, in some cases people have survived for an average of one week. It is not recommended that anyone try this at home. Once the body is deprived of fluids the cells and organs in the body begin to deteriorate. The human body is made from cells, bones, organs, and fluids. The functionality and longevity of the body depends on many factors. For instance, a person who goes without food and not water will live for quite a bit longer.
Scabies mites can only live about 72 hours without human contact, but once on a person, the mites can live up to two months. Mites survive longer in colder conditions with higher humidity. Scabies Treatment: Wash Linens and Bedclothes. Scabies mites do not survive more than 72 hours without human contact. It is usually sufficient to machine wash bed linens and clothing in hot water and dry on high heat, or have the items dry-cleaned.
This is a discussion on How long can you do without human interaction/contact? within the INTP Forum-The Thinkers forums, part of the NT's Temperament Forum-The Intellects category; I thought that this would be an interesting, albeit somewhat silly, question. Well, I never really did that and only did 1 day without interactions in rl. As for how much I think I could last, without any would probably be 2-3 days, while without any in rl would be 1-2 weeks.
Another rule of thumb when lack of water is a problem is make sure youdrink water when you can. People have been known to succumb with water still in their canteens! Aqua ManBoston Some people ask how long can you go without food and water. But the reality is you can go with out food for along time, a month or more. But you cannot live without water for very long. HannahPA It is hard to find the information because you call it how long can I survive without water but you have alot of otherinformation about stuff not in the title.Survival Topics-Survival times without water are dependant on many factors and there can be no hard and fastrule or formula.
it's funny, because i'm pretty introverted, but i don't like to go without human interaction of any kind for more than a few days. i'd say, for an ideal day, i'd prefer at least 65% of the time to be more or less alone, and 35% or less to be engaged in conversation. Well, I never really did that and only did 1 day without interactions in rl. As for how much I think I could last, without any would probably be 2-3 days, while without any in rl would be 1-2 weeks.
At the end my brain was starting to melt, but I don't think that had to do with lack of human contact. 05-28-2010 09:30 PM #3. INTP-The Thinkers. When I was nineteen I used to spend long periods of time without contact with others (days). Well, I never really did that and only did 1 day without interactions in rl. As for how much I think I could last, without any would probably be 2-3 days, while without any in rl would be 1-2 weeks.