thirst. a sensation, often referred to the mouth and throat, associated with a craving for drink; ordinarily interpreted as a desire for water. Cellular dehydration also influences thirst and therefore water intake. Other factors may influence the role of the hypothalamus in maintaining water balance. See also polydipsia. of all tortures That torture the worst Has abated -- the terrible Torture of thirst For the naphthaline river Of Passion accurst: -- I have drank of a water That quenches all thirst : --.
The medical dictionary offers a resource to carry out research or learn the medical definitions of numerous medical terms. Enter word : The medic8 online health dictionary will help you to find the meaning of medical terms and their definitions. Below are medical books recommended to find medical terms and definitions: Dorland's Illustrated Medical Dictionary. Mosby's Medical Dictionary. Stedman's Medical Dictionary
thirst. n. 1. a craving to drink, accompanied by a feeling of dryness in the mouth and throat. 2. an eager longing, craving, or yearning: a thirst for knowledge. vb. thirst. 1. a sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat caused by need of liquid. 2. a need for liquid or moisture. 3. eager desire; crav
thirst center a group of cells in the lateral hypothalamus that when stimulated cause a sensation of thirst. trauma center an institution officially designated as a site to which catastrophically injured patients can be brought quickly to receive specialized care. center. 1. the middle point of a body. 2. a collection of neurons in the central nervous system that are concerned with performance of a particular function. accelerating center the part of the vasomotor center involved in acceleration of the heart.
thirst. A desire to drink associated with uncomfortable sensations in the mouth and pharynx. [A.S. thurst ]. (therst) a sensation, often referred to the mouth and throat, associated with a craving for drink; ordinarily interpreted as a desire for water. Cellular dehydration also influences thirst and therefore water intake. Other factors may influence the role of the hypothalamus in maintaining water balance. See also polydipsia. of all tortures That torture the worst Has abated -- the terrible Torture of thirst For the naphthaline river Of Passion accurst: -- I have drank of a water That quenches all thirst : --.
Full Definition of THIRST. 1. a: a sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat associated with a desire for liquids; also: the bodily condition (as of dehydration) that induces this sensation b: a desire or need to drink. 2. See thirst defined for English-language learners. Learn More About THIRST. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for thirst. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of thirst. Nglish: Translation of thirst for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of thirst for Arabic speakers. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about thirst.
n. 1. a craving to drink, accompanied by a feeling of dryness in the mouth and throat. 2. an eager longing, craving, or yearning: a thirst for knowledge. thirst. 1. a sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat caused by need of liquid. 2. a need for liquid or moisture. 3. eager desire; crav
About the Online Medical Dictionary. The online medical dictionary of definitions on eMedicineHealth is a useful health dictionary for you to quickly find information on medical terms. The medical dictionary is from MedTerms™ and covers terminology of over 16,000 healthcare words including diseases, medical jargon, and abbreviations. The medical dictionary on eMedicineHealth is organized with a list of medical terms under each letter. By clicking on a letter, you will jump to the list of words. There, you can browse down the terms to find the word you are looking for.
Clicking on the word will take you to the medical definition. If you know the spelling of the medical word you can also use the search box. Type in your word and click the search button to find the definition in the dictionary. The medical dictionary on eMedicineHealth is organized with a list of medical terms under each letter. By clicking on a letter, you will jump to the list of words. There, you can browse down the terms to find the word you are looking for.
thirst. n. 1. a. A sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat related to a need or desire to drink. b. thirst. 1. a sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat caused by need of liquid. 2. a need for liquid or moisture. 3. eager desire; craving: a thirst for knowledge.