The organs of your body that allow you to breathe are called your lungs. You have twoof them that work together, located in your chest inside the rib cage. The main purpose of your lungs is to breathe in good air and breathe out bad air. The good air contains oxygen, which your body needs. 
See what healthy lungs can do for you. Every cell in your body needs oxygen in order to live. The air we breathe contains oxygen and other gases. Once in the lungs, oxygen is moved into the bloodstream and carried through your body. At each cell in your body, oxygen is exchanged for a waste gas called carbon dioxide. Your bloodstream then carries this waste gas back to the lungs where it is removed from the blood stream and then exhaled. 
Emphysema is an example of a chronic change. Here is a list of the changes that happen in your lungs and airways when you smoke: 1  The cells that produce mucus in your lungs and airways grow in size and number. 2  As a result, the amount of mucus increases. 3  The mucus is also thicker. 
The lungs are the organs in the chest involved in breathing. The lungs are surrounded and protected by the rib cage. The lung on the left side of the body is a little smaller than the lung on the right. The lungs transfer oxygen from the air to the bloodstream and remove carbon dioxide (a waste material) from the blood. When you breathe in, oxygen moves out of the air sacs of the lungs into the blood vessels. At the same time, carbon dioxide moves out of your blood and into the air sacs. You remove the carbon dioxide from your lungs when you breathe out. This process is called respiration
From your pulmonic valve, blood travels to the pulmonary artery to tiny capillary vessels in the lungs. Here, oxygen travels from the tiny air sacs in the lungs, through the walls of the capillaries, into the blood. At the same time, carbon dioxide, a waste product of metabolism, passes from the blood into the air sacs. 
You breathe so regularly that it is easy to take your lungs for granted. You can't even stop yourself from breathing if you try! Your lungs are complex organs, but what they do is take a gas that your body needs to get rid of (carbon dioxide) and exchange it for a gas that your body can use (oxygen). 
The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. The bronchioles eventually end in clusters of microscopic air sacs called alveoli. 
Lung Health and Diseases. Learn how to keep your lungs healthy and get the facts about lung disease symptoms, causes and treatments, as well as advice for managing different lung diseases. Search by disease or keyword.
Lung function tests, also called pulmonary (PULL-mun-ary) function tests, measure how well your lungs work. These tests are used to look for the cause of breathing problems, such as shortness of breath. Lung function tests measure: 1  How much air you can take into your lungs. 2  How much air you can blow out of your lungs and how fast you can do it. 3  How well your lungs deliver oxygen to your blood. 4  The strength of your breathing muscles.
They also help remove carbon dioxide (a waste gas that can be toxic) from your body. The lungs' intake of oxygen and removal of carbon dioxide is called gas exchange. Gas exchange is part of breathing. Breathing is a vital function of life; it helps your body work properly. Other organs and tissues also help make breathing possible. 