Overview. The perfect pear tree should be shaped like a Christmas tree--with a narrow top and wider bottom. A neglected pear tree benefits from pruning--producing better fruit quality. The purpose of pruning a pear tree is to remove unproductive branches, increase sunlight and air penetration and shape the tree's crown into a stable form. Untrimmed trees may grow more fruit, but it will be a lesser quality fruit. 
Pear tree pruning also begins at planting time. Cut back young, unbranched trees 33 to 36 inches above the ground to encourage good branching. If your new tree has plenty of branches, remove those that are less than 18 inches from the ground and those with crotches of less than 60 degrees. Pruning a pear tree begins in late winter before the buds begin to swell. Earlier pruning may encourage excessive vegetative growth and suckering in spring and summer. It also increases the chances of winter injury to the pruning sites.
The common pear (Pyrus communis) grows well in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 4 through 9. These pear trees are long-lived with strong vertical branches that grow up to 40 feet tall and 15 to 25 feet wide. Pears require a winter chill to produce a good crop and good air circulation to avoid disease.
In the early years of the tree's life, it is important to develop a framework sufficiently strong to bear the weight of crops. This requires formative pruning to reinforce the tree. Formative pruning of apple (Malus pumila) and pear (Pyrus communis) trees should be carried out in the dormant winter months. For the Northern hemisphere, this should occur between November and March; For the Southern hemisphere, June and September.
You will be pruning to make a healthy, more productive tree as well as to produce larger fruit. There are many methods of pruning a tree for best health and fruiting, but most fruit trees are pruned to just three tree structures: Central Leader System. 
When to Prune Pear Trees. You can prune pear trees during their dormant season -- December, January and mid-February -- with January being the best month for pruning. When you prune trees during their dormant period, it is easier to see and remove dormant buds to stimulate remaining buds. These pear trees are long-lived with strong vertical branches that grow up to 40 feet tall and 15 to 25 feet wide. Pears require a winter chill to produce a good crop and good air circulation to avoid disease.
Overview. Pear trees produce fruit for 75 to 80 years when properly cared for, and they are a low-maintenance way to add beauty and shade to your yard. Regular pruning of pear trees is essential to increase sunlight penetration, ensure fruit production and quality and to prevent pest infestation and disease. 
PRUNING OLD TREES An unpruned Bradford pear tree planted five or more years ago is likely to be a tangled mass of twigs and big limbs. With careful observation, you can still decide which limbs should stay and which should go. First to go are the thin vertical limbs in the center of the tree. 
A true dwarf tree can be maintained at about 6 to 10 feet tall, a semidwarf at about 10 to 16 feet and a standard at about 16 to 20 feet tall. Trees that have not been pruned in many years should not be reduced to the desired height in a single pruning. 
How to Prune Pear Trees. As a young pear tree grows, the main stem of the plant should always be taller than the surrounding branches. Pear tree branches naturally grow upright, but the branches spread as it begins to bear fruit. The weight of the fruit pulls the branch down into a more horizontal position. Pruning a pear tree begins in late winter before the buds begin to swell. Earlier pruning may encourage excessive vegetative growth and suckering in spring and summer. It also increases the chances of winter injury to the pruning sites.