Glossary of Terms. Bronchus / Bronchi / Bronchioles. The airways of the lungs. When a person takes in a breath of air, the air travels through the nose or mouth, into the larynx, then into the trachea, which is the main passageway into the lungs. The trachea divides into a right and left main bronchus. 
A bronchus, also known as a main or primary bronchus, is a passage of airway in the respiratory tract that conducts air into the lungs. There is a right bronchus and a left bronchus and these bronchi branch into smaller secondary and tertiary bronchi which branch into smaller tubes, known as bronchioles. The right bronchus now passes below the artery, and is known as the hyparterial branch which divides into the two lobar bronchi to the middle and lower lobes. The left main bronchus is smaller in caliber but longer than the right, being 5 cm long. It enters the root of the left lung opposite the sixth thoracic vertebra.
The left main bronchus divides into two lobar bronchi, one each for the upper and lower lobes. The upper lobar bronchus may be considered as having (1) an upper division and (2) a lower, or lingular, division. The right main bronchus, about 2.5 cm in length, is shorter, wider, and more nearly vertical than the left. The trachea descends anterior to the esophagus, enters the superior mediastinum, and divides into right and left main bronchi. The trachea is a median structure but, near its lower end, deviates slightly to the right, resulting in the left main bronchus crossing anterior to the esophagus.
Bronchi is the plural of bronchus meaning any of the larger passages conveying air to and within the lungs. This has to do with respiration sequence which begins as air enters … the nose or mouth where it is warmed or moistened and then passes through the pharynx, larynx, and trachea and into the bronchi. The primary bronchi are the two air tubes that branch off of the Trachea, primary bronchi divide to form secondary bronchi which in turn form tertiary bronchi .and finally bronchioles All bronchi & bronchioles carry air ultimately to alveoli.
A bronchus is one of the large tubes that lead from the human trachea to the lungs. There is one large bronchus in each lung that branches out into smaller bronchi within the lungs. Bronchi carry air into and out of the lungs. The respiratory system begins at the nose and mouth, which meet at the pharynx. At the bottom of the pharynx are the esophagus, for food, and the trachea, for air.
bifurcation of the trachea. Edit 0 2 …. The bifurcation of the trachea is where the trachea ends and the bronchi of the lungs begin. It is a fork split division in the trachea into two bronchi: the primary left and the primary right bronchi. It is seen in this picture where the trachea splits into these two labeled parts (primary right and left bronchi). It is at the very caudal end of the trachea. 
The trachea or windpipe (Fig. 961) is a cartilaginous and membranous tube, extending from the lower part of the larynx, on a level with the sixth cervical vertebra, to the upper border of the fifth thoracic vertebra, where it divides into the two bronchi, one for each lung. 
The right main bronchus is larger than the left. It divides into three lobar bronchi. The left main bronchus splits off into two lobar bronchi. The lobar bronchi then branch into what are called tertiary bronchi, and then into smaller bronchioles. The bronchioles eventually branch into alveolar ducts and sacs. There is one large bronchus in each lung that branches out into smaller bronchi within the lungs. Bronchi carry air into and out of the lungs. The respiratory system begins at the nose and mouth, which meet at the pharynx. At the bottom of the pharynx are the esophagus, for food, and the trachea, for air.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Trachea comes down and splits into the 2 Bronchi at the Bifurcation of trachea, at the lowest point in the spit it is called the carina. The two Bronchi are called the left and right primary bromchi, and then they quickly spit again into secondary bronchi. The primary bronchi are the two air tubes that branch off of the Trachea, primary bronchi divide to form secondary bronchi which in turn form tertiary bronchi .and finally bronchioles All bronchi & bronchioles carry air ultimately to alveoli.
The lungs' tertiary bronchi are also called the segmental bronchi. They branch out from the secondary bronchi, which descend from the mainstream bronchi. Lower in the lung, they become smaller and break up into the primary bronchioles. Each tertiary bronchus serves a particular bronchopulmonary segment. The left lung has nine tertiary bronchi, while the right lung has ten.