Anti-inflammatory: Citronella essential oil sedates inflammation, particularly those situations which pertain to the liver, stomach, intestines and other parts of the digestive system.
The essential oil of citronella is extracted from two varieties of citronella. The first one is the Ceylon variety, whose scientific name is Cymbopogon Nardus and the second one is Java variety, called Cymbopogon Winterianus in botanical terminology.
Citronella is the name for both an essential oil, and a group of trees/shrubs (mostly growing in tropical climates).
If you are a fan of aromatherapy, you're probably familiar with citronella oil. Citronella is also often added to a variety of personal care and cleaning products and provides numerous benefits.
Uses Of Citronella Oil: 1) Insect repellent:Citronella oil repels insects such as mosquitoes, black flies, fleas and ticks, therefore, preventing its bites. It is used on humans and their clothing – in the form of an oil, liquid and patch.
Citronella essential oil is often used in aromatherapy because it can provide relief from anxiety and a light feeling. It can also provide relief from menstrual cramps and muscle spasms. The oil can also help inhibit inflammation in the liver, stomach, and digestive tract.
Citronella oil is perhaps most famed for its insect repellent properties. It can be used in isolation or combined with other essential oils (such as lemongrass oil) to create an even more potent insect repellent blend.
Citronella Essential Oil is commonly known for its natural insect repellent properties, though it has many other uses in aromatherapy. The oil is steam distilled from a tall, aromatic, perennial grass originally native to Sri Lanka. This oil is the known as Java citronella, and has a fresh, powerful, lemon-like scent.
Citronella oil is a popular essential oil extracted from Cymbopogon Nardus, a certain type of lemon grass. The oil, taken out from the tall thin leaves of Cymbopogon through steam distillation, has a sweet and refreshing aroma with thin consistency.