A small amount of arsenic is found in its native state. It is mainly found in minerals. The most common arsenic-containing mineral is arsenopyrite. Others include realgar, orpiment and enargite. Most arsenic is produced as a by-product of copper and lead refining. It can be obtained from arsenopyrite by heating, causing the arsenic to sublime and leave behind iron(II) sulfide. Arsenic compounds are sometimes used as rat poisons and insecticides but their use is strictly controlled. Surprisingly, arsenic can also have medicinal applications. In Victorian times, Dr Fowler’s Solution (potassium arsenate dissolved in water) was a popular cure-all tonic that was even used by Charles Dickens.
The term hydride is used in a generic sense to indicate compounds of the type M x H y and not necessarily to indicate that any compounds listed behave chemically as hydrides. In compounds of arsenic (where known), the most common oxidation numbers of arsenic are: 5, 3, and -3. For each compound, a formal oxidation number for arsenic is given, but the usefulness of this number is limited for p-block elements in particular. Based upon that oxidation number, an electronic configuration is also given but note that for more exotic compounds you should view this as a guide only.
1 Ingestion and inhalation are the most common routes of exposure to arsenic, and they are the routes that most commonly lead to illness. 2  Dermal exposure may lead to illness, but to a lesser extent than ingestion or inhalation routes of exposure. Key Points. 1  Ingestion and inhalation are the most common routes of exposure to arsenic, and they are the routes that most commonly lead to illness.
Characteristics: Arsenic occurs in three distinct solid forms. Gray arsenic is the most common. It has a metallic sheen and conducts electricity. Yellow arsenic is metastable, is a poor electrical conductor and does not have a metallic sheen. It is prepared by cooling gray arsenic vapor in liquid air. 
The three most common arsenic allotropes are metallic gray, yellow, and black arsenic, with gray being the most common. Gray arsenic (α-As, space group R 3 m No. 166) adopts a double-layered structure consisting of many interlocked, ruffled, six-membered rings. The most common oxidation states for arsenic are: −3 in the arsenides, such as alloy-like intermetallic compounds; and +3 in the arsenites, arsenates(III), and most organoarsenic compounds. Arsenic also bonds readily to itself as seen in the square As 3− 4 ions in the mineral skutterudite.
Arsenic is a chemical element with symbol As and atomic number 33. Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in conjunction with sulfur and metals, and also as a pure elemental crystal. Arsenic is a metalloid. It can exist in various allotropes, although only the gray form has important use in industry. The most common oxidation states for arsenic are: −3 in the arsenides, such as alloy-like intermetallic compounds; and +3 in the arsenites, arsenates(III), and most organoarsenic compounds. Arsenic also bonds readily to itself as seen in the square As 3− 4 ions in the mineral skutterudite.
The main use of metallic arsenic is for strengthening alloys of copper and especially lead (for example, in car batteries). Arsenic is a common n-type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices, and the optoelectronic compound gallium arsenide is the most common semiconductor in use after doped silicon. The most common oxidation states for arsenic are: −3 in the arsenides, such as alloy-like intermetallic compounds; and +3 in the arsenites, arsenates(III), and most organoarsenic compounds. Arsenic also bonds readily to itself as seen in the square As 3− 4 ions in the mineral skutterudite.
For many years, the greatest use of arsenic was for poisons, and in particular, insecticides. Lead arsenate, Pb 3 (AsO 4) 2 was a common insecticide; later, the calcium salt replaced it. Paris Green, copper acetoarsenite, Cu(C 2 H 3 O 2) 2 · 3CuOAsO 3, and copper arsenite (Scheele's Green) CuHAsO 3 are also useful. 