Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV (HSAN4 or HSAN IV) is a rare genetic disorder that usually begins in infancy and is characterized by an inability to feel pain and an inability to sweat (anhidrosis). Affected individuals also cannot feel temperature and cannot distinguish between hot and cold. Introduction. The hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSAN), also known as the hereditary sensory neuropathies, include at least six similar, but distinct inherited degenerative disorders of the nervous system (neurodegenerative) that frequently progress to loss of feeling, especially in the hands and feet.
Summary. Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV (HSAN4 or HSAN IV) is a rare genetic disorder that usually begins in infancy and is characterized by an inability to feel pain and an inability to sweat (anhidrosis). Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy Type IV is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
General Discussion. Summary. Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type II (HSAN2) is a rare genetic disorder that usually begins in childhood by affecting the nerves that serve the lower legs and feet and the lower arms and hands. Symptoms start with inflamed fingers or toes, especially around the nails. The hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSAN), also known as the hereditary sensory neuropathies, include at least six similar but distinct inherited degenerative disorders of the nervous system (neurodegenerative) that frequently progress to loss of feeling, especially in the hands and feet.
Main article: Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type I. Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 is a condition characterized by nerve abnormalities in the legs and feet (peripheral neuropathy). Many people with this condition have tingling, weakness, and a reduced ability to feel pain and sense hot and cold. Genes related to Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy Type 3 : Mutations in the IKBKAP gene cause familial dysautonomia. The IKBKAP gene provides instructions for making a protein called IKK complex-associated protein (IKAP). This protein is found in a variety of cells throughout the body, including brain cells.
Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy (HSAN) or hereditary sensory neuropathy (HSN) is a condition used to describe any of the types of this disease which inhibit sensation. Genes related to Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy Type 3 : Mutations in the IKBKAP gene cause familial dysautonomia. The IKBKAP gene provides instructions for making a protein called IKK complex-associated protein (IKAP). This protein is found in a variety of cells throughout the body, including brain cells.
Introduction. The hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSAN), also known as the hereditary sensory neuropathies, include at least six similar, but distinct inherited degenerative disorders of the nervous system (neurodegenerative) that frequently progress to loss of feeling, especially in the hands and feet. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy Type IV is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
Clinical characteristics. Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA), also known as hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV (HSAN IV), is characterized by insensitivity to pain, anhidrosis (the inability to sweat), and intellectual disability. Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSANs). Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA; also known as hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV (HSAN IV) belongs to the family of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSANs). Seven HSANs are recognized. CIPA (HSAN IV) is the only HSAN that is associated with widespread anhidrosis
Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type V (HSAN5) is a condition that primarily affects the sensory nerve cells (sensory neurons), which transmit information about sensations such as pain, temperature, and touch. These sensations are impaired in people with HSAN5. 