Lipoma Causes. Lipomas are benign growths, or fatty tumors, that usually develop just beneath the skin and appear as skin lumps. They are the most common noncancerous growths of soft tissue, and often appear in the upper thighs, upper arms, torso, neck and armpits, although they can occur almost anywhere. Lipoma Symptoms. Most fatty tumors do not cause pain, and typically are about .4 to 1.2 inches in diameter. They are soft and movable, and have a rubbery consistency, and either grow slowly or remain the same size for years. These types of lipomas do not usually need to be removed, unless it is for cosmetic reasons.
Causes of Lipomas. One common cause of lipomas is genetic. A patient may have several close relatives with histories of fatty tumors. Also, minor injuries may cause lipomas to develop, so it is important to monitor your body when you experience an injury.
A lipoma is a knot of fatty tissue that is usually found just below the skin (subcutaneous). Lipomas can occur almost anywhere on the body, but are most commonly found on the trunk, shoulders, neck, and armpits. Lipomas can also form in muscles and internal organs. In other cases, genetic conditions such as Gardner syndrome and hereditary multiple lipomatosis cause a person to have multiple lipomas. Another rare condition, Madelung’s disease, is most frequently associated with men, especially men who drink a great deal of alcohol.
The cause of lipomas is unknown. Your risk of developing this type of skin lump increases if you have a family history of lipomas. According to the Mayo Clinic, this condition is most prevalent in adults between the ages of 40 and 60 (Mayo, 2012). Highlights. 1  Lipomas are harmless deposits of fat under the skin, typically around the neck, back, and shoulders. 2  These deposits feel doughy and aren’t painful, making them easier to diagnose than other skin problems. 3  Lipomas won’t create any problems of their own, but a dermatologist can remove them if they bother you.
The causes for lipomas are not completely understood, but there are many factors that can contribute to the formation of these fatty tumors. The most common fatty tumors cause is an inherited genetic mutation or hereditary propensity for the development of these benign growths. Lipoma Symptoms. Most fatty tumors do not cause pain, and typically are about .4 to 1.2 inches in diameter. They are soft and movable, and have a rubbery consistency, and either grow slowly or remain the same size for years. These types of lipomas do not usually need to be removed, unless it is for cosmetic reasons.
A lipoma is a growth of fat cells in a thin, fibrous capsule usually found just below the skin. Lipomas aren't cancer and don't turn into cancer. They are found most often on the torso, neck, upper thighs, upper arms, and armpits, but they can occur almost anywhere in the body. Lipomas usually: 1  Are small [ 0.4 in. ( 2 1 cm) to 1.2 in. ( 3 3 cm) ] and felt just under the skin. 4  Are movable and have a soft, rubbery consistency. 5  Do not cause pain. 6  Remain the same size over years or grow very slowly.
Lipomas usually are not treated, because most of them don't hurt or cause problems. Your doctor may order an imaging test, such as an ultrasound. Or your doctor might remove the lipoma if it is painful, gets infected, or bothers you. Most lipomas can be removed in the doctor's office or outpatient surgery center. The doctor injects a local anesthetic around the lipoma, makes an incision in the skin, removes the growth, and closes the incision with stitches (sutures). Lipomas usually: 1  Are small [ 0.4 in. ( 2 1 cm) to 1.2 in. ( 3 3 cm) ] and felt just under the skin. 4  Are movable and have a soft, rubbery consistency. 5  Do not cause pain. 6  Remain the same size over years or grow very slowly.
However, it is unclear whether the trauma causes a lipoma to form or if the lipoma is discovered simply as a result of medical attention to that area of the body. In other cases, genetic conditions such as Gardner syndrome and hereditary multiple lipomatosis cause a person to have multiple lipomas. Another rare condition, Madelung’s disease, is most frequently associated with men, especially men who drink a great deal of alcohol.
A lipoma is a benign lump or mass that is made up of fat cells (adipocytes). Lipomas are a common, benign (noncancerous) type of slow-growing tumor and are the most common benign tumors situated under the skin. They most often develop just under the skin in the subcutaneous tissue, located beneath the skin and above the muscle.
A lipoma is a benign tumor composed of adipose tissue (body fat). It is the most common benign form of soft tissue tumor. Lipomas are soft to the touch, usually movable, and are generally painless. Many lipomas are small (under one centimeter diameter) but can enlarge to sizes greater than six centimeters. Lipomas are commonly found in adults from 40 to 60 years of age, but can also be found in younger adults and children. In dogs, lipomas usually occur in the trunk or upper limbs. Lipomas are also found less commonly in cattle and horses, and rarely in cats and pigs. However, a pedunculated lipoma can cause entrapment and torsion of the intestine in horses, causing necrosis, colic, and possibly death.