Tidal energy is a form of hydropower that converts the energy of the tides into electricity or other useful forms of power. The tide is created by the gravitational effect of the sun and the moon on the earth causing cyclical movement of the seas. Artificial tidal barrages or lagoons may be constructed to capture the tide. Turbines in the barrier or lagoon generate electricity as the tide floods into the reservoir; water thus retained can then be released through turbines, again generating electricity once the tide outside the barrier has receded.
How Does Tidal Energy Work. Tidal energy is energy obtained from changing sea levels (the tide moving from high to low and vice versa.) This renewable energy source has great potential as tides are much more predictable than wind power and solar energy which are not at all consistent (seasons, bad weather, etc...). Tidal Barrages. Tidal barrages are very similar to the Dams in hydroelectric plants, except that they are much larger as they are built across an estuary or bay. The tidal range (difference between high and low tide) needs to be in excess of five metres for the barrage to be workable.
The world's first large-scale tidal power plant is the Rance Tidal Power Station in France, which became operational in 1966. Total harvestable energy from tidal areas close to the coast is estimated to be around 1 terawatt worldwide. Tidal power is the only technology that draws on energy inherent in the orbital characteristics of the Earth – Moon system, and to a lesser extent in the Earth– Sun system.
Ways to use tidal power: Tides produce by ocean can be used in three different ways to get energy and generate electric power. First is its wave energy or kinetic energy that water gets due to movement of waves. This energy can power the turbine if waves rise to a chamber and force the air out from there.
Tidal energy is one of the oldest forms of energy used by humans. Indeed, tide mills, in use on the Spanish, French and British coasts, date back to 787 A.D.. Barrages can be designed to generate electricity on the ebb side, or flood side, or both. Tidal range may vary over a wide range (4.5-12.4 m) from site to site. A tidal range of at least 7 m is required for economical operation and for sufficient head of water for the turbines.
There are also three main ways that tidal energy is harnessed: 1  Tidal Barrages-A tidal barrage works like a dam. 2  When the tide goes high, the reservoir fills up. 3  When the tide drops the dam lets the water out. 4  In both directions the moving water can spin the blades of turbines to create electricity. Tidal energy is energy produced by the tides of the ocean. Tides are produced by the pull of gravity from the Moon as well as the spin of the Earth. There is a lot of energy in the movement of that much water. Renewable Energy.
Tidal barrages make use of the potential energy in the difference in height (or hydraulic head) between high and low tides. When using tidal barrages to generate power, the potential energy from a tide is seized through strategic placement of specialized dams. Tidal power is the only technology that draws on energy inherent in the orbital characteristics of the Earth – Moon system, and to a lesser extent in the Earth– Sun system.
A barrage or dam is typically used to convert tidal energy into electricity by forcing water through turbines, which activate a generator. Gates and turbines are installed along the dam. When the tides produce an adequate difference in the level of water on opposite sides of the dam, the gates are opened. Addthis. Some of the oldest ocean energy technologies use tidal power. All coastal areas experience two high tides and two low tides over a period of slightly more than 24 hours.
Tidal power exploits energy drawn from the movement of ocean tides to produce electricity. There are two scenarios in which tides can be tapped for energy. The first is in changing sea levels. This phenomenon is responsible for the advancing and receding tides on shorelines. Tidal energy can be harnessed both in the sea, and in tidal rivers and estuaries. On some shorelines, water levels can vary up to 12 metres. It is this drastic change in water level that makes the first type of tidal energy — tidal barrages — possible.