Downstream is an oil industry term used to refer to all petroleum activities from the processing of refining crude oil into petroleum products to the distribution, marketing, and shipping of the products. The upstream oil sector is a term commonly used to refer to the searching for and the recovery and production of crude oil and natural gas. The upstream oil sector is also known as the exploration and production (E&P) sector.
upstream. Of or relating to earnings or operations at a firm that are near or at the initial stages of producing a good or service. For example, exploration and production are upstream operations for a large integrated oil company. Compare downstream. 1  Facebook
The opposite of downstream is upstream. The upstream oil sector is a term commonly used to refer to the searching for and the recovery and production of crude oil and natural gas. The upstream oil sector is also known as the exploration and production (E&P) sector.
Operations stages in the oil and gas industry that involve exploration and production. Upstream operations deal primarily with the exploration stages of the oil and gas industry, with upstream firms taking the first steps to first locate, test and drill for oil and gas. Later, once reserves are proven, upstream firms will extract any oil and gas from the reserve. Next Up.
From the provider to the customer. Downloading files and Web pages from the Internet is the downstream side. The upstream is from the customer to the provider (requesting a Web page, sending e-mail, etc.). In cable TV, downstream signals are the network, movie and sports channels transmitted to the customer. However, if the cable provider offers video-on-demand or Internet access, the cable also has an upstream
Upstream and Downstream sales are normally associated with inter-company sales. Upstream is a subsidiary selling into the parent entity; while downstream sales are from parent to subsidiary. Financially, it usually refers to loans, since dividends and interest generally flow upstream. Term is also used by securities analysts, particularly oil analysts, meaning earnings or operations at or near the end-product stage. In an integrated oil company, for example, downstream would refer to the retail gas pump, upstream to exploration
DEFINITION of 'Downstream'. The oil and gas operations that take place after the production phase, through to the point of sale. Downstream operations can include refining crude oil and distributing the by-products down to the retail level. By-products can include gasoline, natural gas liquids, diesel and a variety of other energy sources
Explanation: Upstream vs. Downstream Movement along a supply chain can be upstream toward the supplier, or downstream toward the customer. Water metaphors are often used in business and finance (e.g., flow of capital, liquidity, frozen assets), and supply chain management is no different. The upstream flow refers to the movement of a number of elements, such as material goods, to the supplier, that is, the source of the product supply chain. Downstream refers to movement in the direction of the customer, or even the consumer.
12 months. Description: Upstream agreements define the legal, business and working relationships that exist between companies that explore for and produce oil and gas and the government agencies or private parties that own the mineral rights. 