Nerve pain, or neuropathic pain, is pain resulting from nerve damage. Nerve pain can result from postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) as well as a variety of other illnesses and conditions or nerve injuries. Nerve pain is often described as [source: NINDS ]: Nerve pain can result from postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) as well as a variety of other illnesses and conditions or nerve injuries. Nerve pain is often described as [source: NINDS 1  ]: Burning. 2  Stabbing pain. 3  Feeling as if you're wearing gloves or stockings when you're not. 4  Excruciating, sharp twinges of pain.
Some types of epilepsy medications, such as gabapentin (Neurontin) and pregabalin (Lyrica), can dull the pain of damaged nerves. ... Some people with cervical spondylosis benefit from the use of traction, which can help provide more space within the spine if nerve roots are 1  ... Food Poisoning Treatment. Epilepsy drugs — such as gabapentin (Gralise, Neurontin), pregabalin (Lyrica) and carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Epitol, Tegretol) — are often used to treat nerve pain. They work by quieting damaged nerves to slow or prevent uncontrolled pain signals. ...
Gabapentin is used primarily to treat seizures and neuropathic pain. It is also commonly prescribed for many off-label uses, such as treatment of anxiety disorders, insomnia, and bipolar disorder. Gabapentin is not effective alone as a mood-stabilizing treatment for bipolar disorder. There is insufficient evidence to support its use in obsessive-compulsive disorder and treatment-resistant depression. Gabapentin does not appear effective for the treatment of tinnitus.
Sometimes antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, and anticonvulsants, such as gabapentin (Gralise, Neurontin), are used to treat pain that ... Sympathetic nerve-blocking medication. Injection of an anesthetic to block pain fibers in your affected nerves may relieve pain in some ... Gabapentin and pregabalin were originally approved to treat certain types of epilepsy and nerve pain. Both drugs work by limiting the release of pain-communicating chemicals by nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. The ...
Posted on September 28, 2013 in Prescription Drug Addiction. When Neurontin was the new drug on the block, physicians believed that they had found a real breakthrough drug to help patients with all kinds of nerve pain. 
The FDA has approved Neurontin for the treatment of PHN. Here's how it works. 1  Nerves take messages back and forth from the brain to different parts of the body. 2  If you touch something, a message is sent to your brain. 3  Your brain interprets the message and sends a response signal back. Nerve pain can result from postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) as well as a variety of other illnesses and conditions or nerve injuries. Nerve pain is often described as [source: NINDS 1  ]: Burning. 2  Stabbing pain. 3  Feeling as if you're wearing gloves or stockings when you're not. 4  Excruciating, sharp twinges of pain.
Anticonvulsants. Epilepsy drugs — such as gabapentin (Gralise, Neurontin), pregabalin (Lyrica) and carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Epitol, Tegretol) — are often used to treat nerve pain. They work by quieting damaged nerves to slow or prevent uncontrolled pain signals. ... Gabapentin and pregabalin were originally approved to treat certain types of epilepsy and nerve pain. Both drugs work by limiting the release of pain-communicating chemicals by nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. The ...
Nerve pain, or neuropathic pain, is pain resulting from nerve damage. Nerve pain can result from postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) as well as a variety of other illnesses and conditions or nerve injuries. Nerve pain is often described as [source: NINDS 1  ]: Burning. 2  Stabbing pain. 3  Feeling as if you're wearing gloves or stockings when you're not. 4  Excruciating, sharp twinges of pain.
Some types of epilepsy medications, such as gabapentin (Neurontin) and pregabalin (Lyrica), can dull the pain of damaged nerves. ... Some people with cervical spondylosis benefit from the use of traction, which can help provide more space within the spine if nerve roots are ... Gabapentin and pregabalin were originally approved to treat certain types of epilepsy and nerve pain. Both drugs work by limiting the release of pain-communicating chemicals by nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. The ...