Green tea appears to demonstrate the ability to suppress appetite, although a number of mechanisms may be at work. The major appetite suppressant factor lies behind its effect on norepinephrine and dopamine.
In addition to all the actual physical ways that green tea can help to suppress appetite there is also the physiological factor to consider as well. When a person consumes green tea knowing that it has the power to help suppress appetite they often feel the effects more keenly because they believe it works.
Green tea lowers appetite by breaking down catecholamine. As a natural appetite suppressant, green tea has properties that inhibit the effect of Catecholamine, which is a collection of two peptide hormones called dopamine and norepinephrine. It also activates the sympathetic nervous system and as a result green tea extract is believed to work as a natural appetite suppressant.
Green Tea. Green Tea has dual impact on your hunger. For one, green tea’s high content of it’s active component EGCG can not only increase thermogenesis and stimulate anorectic pathways that stimulate thermogenesis and fat metabolism, but it can also stimulate the hormone CCK.
Its Liquid Content. One way that green tea can help to suppress appetite is simply due its high liquid content. Most weight loss experts know that many people confuse thirst with hunger and tend to snack when what their body really needs is more fluid.
Another way that green tea helps to suppress appetite is because it contains a healthy dose of ECGC, which is an active compound that helps to slow down the breakdown of 2 peptide hormones known as Catcholamines.
Most people find that the only way to successfully lose weight is by finding a way to suppress their appetite and keep those hunger pangs at bay. Luckily green tea makes for a great appetite suppressant that can help keep those hunger pangs at bay. Here is how green tea works to suppress your appetite.
A third way that Green tea helps to suppress appetite is the fact that it helps to increase the amount of a chemical called CCK that is released by your intestines. Immediately after consuming food your intestines release the CCK hormone, which is a hormone that tells your brain that your body is sated with food.