Radiometric dating (often called radioactive dating) is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, in which trace radioactive impurities were selectively incorporated when they formed. The uranium-lead radiometric dating scheme has been refined to the point that the error margin in dates of rocks can be as low as less than two million years in two-and-a-half billion years.
Lesson Summary. Let's review. Radiometric dating is a method used to date rocks and other objects based on the known decay rate of radioactive isotopes. The decay rate is referring to radioactive decay, which is the process by which an unstable atomic nucleus loses energy by releasing radiation. For example, uranium-lead dating can be used to find the age of a uranium-containing mineral. It works because we know the fixed radioactive decay rates of uranium-238, which decays to lead-206, and for uranium-235, which decays to lead-207.
Radioactive Dating. Because the radioactive half-life of a given radioisotope is not affected by temperature, physical or chemical state, or any other influence of the environment outside the nucleus save direct particle interactions with the nucleus, then radioactive samples continue to decay at a predictable rate. 
The isotope 14 C is radioactive, and beta-decays with a half-life of 5,730 years. This means that in 5,730 years, only half of the 14 C will remain, and after 11,460 years, only one quarter of the 14 C remains. The technique of comparing the abundance ratio of a radioactive isotope to a reference isotope to determine the age of a material is called radioactive dating. Many isotopes have been studied, probing a wide range of time scales.
Radiocarbon dating (also referred to as carbon dating or carbon-14 dating) is a method for determining the age of an object containing organic material by using the properties of radiocarbon (14C), a radioactive isotope of carbon. 
You will be likely to get more answers by using the label radioactive carbon dating (the most common type of radioactive dating) because on first glance, the question seems to be about a new personal dating service. Take carbon 14 for example. All life contains carbon and has some radioctive c14 in it also. Radioactive isotopes have a half life (how long it takes for half of it to turn from c14 to regular carbon).
The precision of a dating method depends in part on the half-life of the radioactive isotope involved. For instance, carbon-14 has a half-life of 5,730 years. After an organism has been dead for 60,000 years, so little carbon-14 is left that accurate dating can not be established. The uranium-lead radiometric dating scheme has been refined to the point that the error margin in dates of rocks can be as low as less than two million years in two-and-a-half billion years.
This is how carbon dating works: Carbon is a naturally abundant element found in the atmosphere, in the earth, in the oceans, and in every living creature. C-12 is by far the most common isotope, while only about one in a trillion carbon atoms is C-14. It can't be used to date rocks directly. Carbon Dating-The Premise. Carbon dating is a dating technique predicated upon three things: 1  The rate at which the unstable radioactive C-14 isotope decays into the stable non-radioactive N-14 isotope, 2  The ratio of C-12 to C-14 found in a given specimen, 3  And the ratio C-12 to C-14 found in the atmosphere at the time of the specimen's death
So we rely on radiometric dating to calculate their ages. Radiometric dating, or radioactive dating as it is sometimes called, is a method used to date rocks and other objects based on the known decay rate of radioactive isotopes. Different methods of radiometric dating can be used to estimate the age of a variety of natural and even man-made materials. For example, uranium-lead dating can be used to find the age of a uranium-containing mineral. It works because we know the fixed radioactive decay rates of uranium-238, which decays to lead-206, and for uranium-235, which decays to lead-207.