The average GPA at Providence College is 3.37. This makes Providence College Moderately Competitive for GPAs. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.37, Providence College accepts below-average students. It's OK to be a B-average student, with some A's mixed in.
The average GPA at Providence College is 3.37. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.37, Providence College accepts below-average students. It's OK to be a B-average student, with some A's mixed in. It'd be best to avoid C's and D's, since application readers might doubt whether you can handle the stress of college academics. The average SAT score composite at Providence College is a 1732. This score makes Providence College Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1580, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 1900. In other words, a 1580 places you below average, while a 1900 will move you up to above average
There are three critical numbers when considering your admissions chances: SAT scores, GPA, and acceptance rate. All these combine to tell you what you scores are required to get into Providence College. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.37, Providence College accepts below-average students. It's OK to be a B-average student, with some A's mixed in.
Average SAT: 1732. The average SAT score composite at Providence College is a 1732. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1580, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 1900. In other words, a 1580 places you below average, while a 1900 will move you up to above average. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.37, Providence College accepts below-average students. It's OK to be a B-average student, with some A's mixed in.
1 A minimum 2.00 (4.0 scale) cumulative quality point average (i.e., overall grade point average, GPA).*. 2  A minimum of 24 upper-division credits in the major, with a minimum 2.00 GPA in all required courses within the major. 1 A minimum of 24 upper-division credits in the major, with a minimum 2.00 GPA in all required courses within the major. 2  Normally, unless otherwise stipulated, students may not begin their senior year in any major in which they have not achieved a 2.0 cumulative average in their major subject(s).
What are the SAT and ACT requirements for students admitted to Providence College and what score do you need to get in? The tables below describe the SAT and ACT test score percentile profile of the Fall 2013 freshman class. These admission statistics provide an indication as to the selectivity of the school and how difficult it is to get in. 5,892 out of 9,652 applicants or 61% percent were admitted making Providence College moderately easy school to get into with a good chance of acceptance assuming you meet the requirements. Providence College typically accepts and attracts B+ average high school student
In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students. You can see that most students who got into Providence College had GPAs of 3.4 or higher, SAT scores (CR+M+W) above 1700, and ACT composite scores of 24 or better. Many successful applicants had solid A averages. If your SAT or ACT scores are below the optimal range for Providence, don't worry -- the college has a test-optional admissions policy. Note that some students with solid grades and test scores did not get into Providence College.
Estimated GPA Requirements. The average high school GPA of the admitted freshman class at Providence College was 3.37 on the 4.0 scale indicating that primarily B+ students are accepted and ultimately attend. These admission statistics provide an indication as to the selectivity of the school and how difficult it is to get in. 5,892 out of 9,652 applicants or 61% percent were admitted making Providence College moderately easy school to get into with a good chance of acceptance assuming you meet the requirements. Providence College typically accepts and attracts B+ average high school students