The Sahara desert is the third largest desert in the world. It is  also the world's hottest desert. The countries it covers include  Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauri … tania, Morocco, Niger,  Western Sahara, Sudan, and Tunisia. The two largest deserts in Africa are the Sahara in northern Africa and the Kalahari in southern Africa.       The Sahara Desert covers 3,500,000 miles. It is the largest desert in the world. The name Sahara comes from the Arabic word for desert.
The Sahara is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean to the west, the Atlas Mountains and the Mediterranean to the north, the Red Sea to the east, and the Sudan and the valley of the Niger River to the south. Arabic dialects are the most widely spoken languages in the Sahara. Berber people are found from western Egypt to Morocco, including the Tuareg pastoralists of the central Sahara. The Beja live in the Red Sea Hills of southeastern Egypt and eastern Sudan.
The second is that travelling the Sahara is not easy. The size alone, the Sahara is the biggest desert in the world outside of the Arctic and Antarctica, means that any trip is likely to take days or even weeks. Merzoug’s desert is a popular destination for camel safari. Crossing the Sahara by camel is incredibly dangerous. Wind sweeps the top-layers of sand into never ending ripples that allow dark shadows to dance among them. The Tenere Desert is one of the most beautiful areas of Sahara.
Sahara Crosser's Corner. Since 1986, Eden Foundation has had the opportunity to cross the Sahara on several occasions. The latest was in October 96. The vehicles used have mainly been Toyota Land Cruisers, and the route has been between Niger and Algeria, crossing the border at In Guezzam / Assamaka. 
Camels can cross deserts. Over 2,000 years ago, people brought domesticated camels to the Sahara from the Middle East. Camels were ideal for life in the desert because they ate dry, tough food like acacia thorns and could go for long stretches without drinking. 
At 3.6 million square miles (9.4 million square kilometers), the Sahara, which is Arabic for The Great Desert, engulfs most of North Africa. The desert covers large sections of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan and Tunisia. This is the image many people have of the Sahara: a vast sea of sand dunes. The terrain is actually quite varied. The Sahara is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean on the western edge, the Atlas Mountains and the Mediterranean Sea to the north, the Red Sea on the east, and the Sudan and the valley of the Niger River on the south.
The Sahara covers parts of several African nations including Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan and Tunisia. Since the Sahara Desert makes up nearly 10% of the African continent, the Sahara is often cited as the world's largest desert. This is not entirely true, however, as it is only the world's largest hot desert.
Surviving the Sahara: Three weeks with the Tuareg. One of the most inhospitable regions on Earth can be conquered, if you're with the right people. Tweet. With a camel, a head scarf and some friendly Tuareg guides, you might just make it out of the Sahara in tact. I can see Abdelkrim’s eyes smiling through the slit in his headdress as he holds up a bag of ripe dates. “Unless you get to water on the 10th day you’re going to die though,” Abdelkrim shrugs philosophically. I’ve flown into the Algerian desert town of Tamanrasset to spend three weeks exploring the center of the Sahara with the Tuaregs, a nomadic people who have traversed the Sahara with their camels for 2,000 years.
Most Tuareg live in the Saharan parts of Niger, Mali, and Algeria. Being nomadic, they move constantly across national borders, and small groups of Tuareg also live in southeastern Algeria, southwestern Libya and northern Burkina Faso, and a small community in northern Nigeria. The Tuareg people inhabit a large area—almost all of the middle and western Sahara, as well as the north-central Sahel. In Tuareg terms, the Sahara is not one desert but many, so they call it Tinariwen (the Deserts).