Pituitary Gland. The pituitary gland, or hypophysis, is about the size of a pea and sits in the small, bony cavity (sella turcica) at the base of the brain. The pituitary gland is divided into two sections: the anterior lobe (adenohypophysis) and the posterior lobe (neurohypophysis). The posterior pituitary is, in effect, a projection of the hypothalamus. It does not produce its own hormones, but only stores and releases the hormones created by the hypothalamus, whereas the anterior pituitary produces and secretes its own hormones.
While the anterior pituitary (a) is made up almost entirely of cells, the posterior pituitary (p) contains few cells and a lot of nerve cell processes--the axons of hypothalamic neurons. Supporting cells called pituicytes make up about one fourth or 25% of the volume of the posterior pituitary. If you can't see the anterior and posterior pituitary glands next to each other on a slide, they both become much harder to identify. The anterior pituitary can be confused with the pancreas or parotid glands, or even the liver. If you look closely, you can see that the cells are arranged in clusters.
The gland is connected to the hypothalamus of the brain by a slender stalk called the infundibulum. There are two distinct regions in the gland: the anterior lobe (adenohypophysis) and the posterior lobe (neurohypophysis). The activity of the adenohypophysis is controlled by releasing hormones from the hypothalamus. The neurohypophysis is controlled by nerve stimulation.
The pituitary gland is a pea-sized gland that sits in a protective bony enclosure called the sella turcica (Turkish chair/saddle). It is composed of three lobes: the anterior, intermediate, and posterior lobes. In many animals, these lobes are distinct. Hypothalamic Control. Hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary gland is regulated by releasing hormones secreted by the hypothalamus. Neuroendocrine cells in the hypothalamus project axons to the median eminence, at the base of the brain.
A major organ of the endocrine system, the anterior pituitary (also called the adenohypophysis or pars anterior), is the glandular, anterior lobe that together with the posterior lobe (posterior pituitary, or the neurohypophysis) makes up the pituitary gland (hypophysis). Hypothalamic Control. Hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary gland is regulated by releasing hormones secreted by the hypothalamus. Neuroendocrine cells in the hypothalamus project axons to the median eminence, at the base of the brain.
This portion of the pituitary gland is made up of: 1  Pars nervosa (posterior) – collection of approximate 100,000 unmyelinated neurons; houses supportive pituicytes and hypothalamic hormones, 2  Infundibular stalk – connects the posterior (and anterior) pituitary gland to the hypothalamus by way of the median eminence. 1
The pituitary gland is often portrayed as the master gland of the body. Such praise is justified in the sense that the anterior and posterior pituitary secrete a battery of hormones that collectively influence all cells and affect virtually all physiologic processes. The pituitary gland may be king, but the power behind the throne is clearly the hypothalamus. As alluded to in the last section, some of the neurons within the hypothalamus-neurosecretory neurons-secrete hormones that strictly control secretion of hormones from the anterior pituitary. Details on the control of specific hypothalamic and anterior pituitary hormones is presented in the discussions of those hormones. The following table summarizes the major hormones synthesized and secreted by the pituitary gland, along with summary statements about their major target organs and physiologic effects.
Although the hypothalamus does not produce the hormones of the anterior pituitary as in the posterior pituitary, it plays an important role in their production. Releasing hormones synthesized by hypothalamic neurons travel down axons and diffuse into the primary plexus of the hypophyseal portal system. The posterior pituitary is, in effect, a projection of the hypothalamus. It does not produce its own hormones, but only stores and releases the hormones created by the hypothalamus, whereas the anterior pituitary produces and secretes its own hormones.