Add the 18 watts the fan motor uses for a total of 70 Watts. Fan #6 could be any number of less efficient ceiling fans with a light fixture that uses the maximim allowed wattage (190 watts). The above calculations did not consider having a light fixture on the ceiling fan. The wattage of the light fixture can have a much greater impact on the cost than the motor. When calculating the cost to operate a fan with the lights on, you must add the wattage of the lights to that of the motor. The range of wattage for a ceiling fan light fixture is anywhere from 13 watts to 190 watts. FYI: Ceiling fans used to have up to 300 watts with a 5-light fixture using 60 watt bulbs, but the EPA began inforcing regulations that now limit the maximum wattage of the light to 190 watts
A ceiling fan is a common house appliance which is attached to the ceiling and uses an electric motor to rotate blades or paddles in a circular motion. Ceiling fans help cool a room by moving air which causes evaporative cooling. Fans range in size from 36 inches to 56 inches using 55 to 100 watts, a typical 48 inch ceiling fan will use 75 watts. Click calculate to find the energy consumption of a 48 inch ceiling fan using 75 Watts for 3 hours a day @ $0.10 per a kWh. Cost Per Hour: Cost Per Day: 
The average wattage for most ceiling fans is usually 65 watts per CF and up. Volts would always be 120. Watts would be between 100-300 watts depending upon the power and speed of the motor. Also add wattage for the 3-4 bulbs if you use them (ie 40 or 6 … 0 watt bulbs).
Low Amps. The majority of modern ceiling fans use less than an amp, averaging between 0.5 and 1 amp, depending on the model and the setting. One amp drawn by a ceiling fan is equivalent to about 120 watts. Low settings use less amperage while higher settings use more. For example, an average ceiling fan set on low speed uses about 0.25 amp, on medium speed about 0.4 amp, and on high speed about 0.6 amp. The amps listed for the model by the manufacturer normally reflect only the use of the fan motor and do not include electricity used by an attached lighting fixtu
3. Multiply the number of amps listed on the label by 120, which is the number of volts of power used by most appliances. This number should also be listed on the ceiling fan label. The formula of amps x volts equals the amount of watts used by the ceiling fan. For example, 0.5 x 120 = 60 watts; 0.9 x 120 = 108 watts. This wattage amount is how much power the ceiling fan uses at maximum speed. 
Wattage mostly has to do with the size of the fan and its motor. Larger blades and a more powerful motor will move more air and use more watts. Every ceiling fan is different but here are some averages: 55 watts for a 36-inch fan, 75 watts for a 48-inch fan, and 100 watts for a 56-inch fan. Energy Star is a government program for rating efficient appliances. 
Watts of Electricity Used: This is the amount of electricity that you can expect the ceiling fan to use when operated on the highest speed. The average watts used by ceiling fans is about 70 watts on high speed (without lights). A higher rating for Watts means the fan uses LESS watts, which is more desirable. How to use our Ceiling Fan Comparison Graphs to Choose the Best Fans. Averages: Fans that are average in for any factor are given a rating of 3. We recommend looking for fans that are rated at 4 or 5 for quality, CFM and MPH.
The highest wattage consumed by the most energy guzzling ceiling fan on our website is about 120 watts. So if you input 120 as the fan watts and run our calculator, you will see that it still costs less than 2 cents per hour to operate the most energy guzzling ceiling fan in most states. The above calculations did not consider having a light fixture on the ceiling fan. The wattage of the light fixture can have a much greater impact on the cost than the motor. When calculating the cost to operate a fan with the lights on, you must add the wattage of the lights to that of the motor. The range of wattage for a ceiling fan light fixture is anywhere from 13 watts to 190 watts. FYI: Ceiling fans used to have up to 300 watts with a 5-light fixture using 60 watt bulbs, but the EPA began inforcing regulations that now limit the maximum wattage of the light to 190 watt
We hooked the Kill a Watt power meter up to the fan and measured 103 watts of energy use on the high setting. On the medium setting the fan used 77 watts and on low power use of the fan was 56 watts. Overall that's not unreasonable, considering how much air the fan moved. How much energy fans use depends on the size of the motor, pitch of the blades and what speed is selected. Savegreenly recently tested the power use of fans, air purifiers and humidifiers and found a big difference in how many watts they each drew.