Manure is organic matter and is used as fertilizer in agriculture. Manure contributes to the fertility of the soil by adding organic matter and valuable nutrients, such as … nitrogen, that are trapped and used by bacteria in the soil. A fertilizer whose compounds are not animal-or plant-based and that nevertheless intends to enrich the soil is what inorganic manure is.
Animal manure is often a mixture of animal feces and bedding straw, as in this example from a stable. Manure is organic matter, mostly derived from animal feces except in the case of green manure, which can be used as organic fertilizer in agriculture. Manures contribute to the fertility of the soil by adding organic matter and nutrients, such as nitrogen, that are trapped by bacteria in the soil. 
Both organic and inorganic fertilizers supplement the soil and feed plants with nutrients. Macronutrients -- those nutrients that plants require in large amounts -- include nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium and are listed as percentages on the fertilizer bag. The Use of Organic and Inorganic Fertilizers. Organic and inorganic fertilizers work in different ways in your soil. All fertilizers supply plants with the nutrients your garden needs to be in tip-top shape. However, organic and inorganic fertilizers supply nutrients to soil in different ways.
Organic manure is refers to a soil amendment derived from natural sources that guarantees, at least, the minimum percentage of nitrogen, phosphate and potash. Inorganic fer … tilizer (though there is no such thing), is the petroleum-based fertilizer that comes in highly concentrated liquid or pellet form. A fertilizer whose compounds are not animal-or plant-based and that nevertheless intends to enrich the soil is what inorganic manure is.
Organic vs Inorganic Fertilizer. The difference between organic and inorganic fertilizer can be discussed under various perspectives. Before that, fertilizers are substances normally used for improving the plant nutrients. The success of farming mainly depends on the growth of a crop. 
Organic fertilizers contain only plant-or animal-based materials that are either a byproduct or end product of naturally occurring processes, such as manures, leaves, and compost. Inorganic fertilizer, also referred to as synthetic fertilizer, is manufactured artificially and contains minerals or synthetic chemicals. Both organic and inorganic fertilizers provide plants with the nutrients needed to grow healthy and strong. However, each contains different ingredients and supplies these nutrients in different ways.
The name inorganic fertilizer may seem to suggest that the fertilizer is not natural. This type of fertilizer actually also contains natural compounds. The difference is that the formula is put together in a refinery, rather than composed by nature as it occurs with organic fertilizers. 