Official Payments Corporation is a licensed money transmitter in 44 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Official Payments is not required to be licensed as a money transmitter in Indiana, Massachusetts, Montana, New Mexico, South Carolina or Wisconsin. 
INTax Payment Arrangements. The Indiana Department of Revenue encourages taxpayers to pay their tax bill in full if possible but if you can’t, you may be able to set up a payment arrangement. If you owe between $100 and $500, you can make arrangements to pay your bill over a 12 month period. Similar to the IRS, the Indiana Department of Revenue regulates taxation at the state level, including situations where a taxpayer owes unpaid or unfiled taxes. The Indiana DOR is committed to helping taxpayers find the best resolution possible for dealing with back tax debt.
INtax and its services are products of the Indiana Department of Revenue | Copyright © 2006-2015. Intax Pay is the gateway for Hoosiers to pay their tax bills and set up payment arrangements. This tool is available to taxpayers who owe individual income taxes, and businesses who conduct retail sales. If you are a new visitor to the site, please click on the button below (Individual Eligibility or RRMC Eligibility) to learn more. If you are a returning user, please log in
You can pay by internet, phone, or mobile device whether you e-file, paper file or are responding to a bill or notice. It's safe and secure-the IRS uses standard service providers and business/commercial card networks, and your information is used solely to process your payment. 
1 File my taxes as an Indiana resident while I am in the military, but my spouse is not an Indiana resident. 2  Take the renter's deduction. 3  Pay my tax bill in installments. 4  Claim a gambling loss on my Indiana return. 5  Have more time to file my taxes and I think I will owe the Department. 1 Know when I will receive my tax refund. 2  File my taxes as an Indiana resident while I am in the military, but my spouse is not an Indiana resident. 3  Take the renter's deduction. 4
If you owe less than $100 and would like to establish a payment plan, you must call 317.232.2165. My bill is more than $100, but less than $500. If you owe between $100 and $500, you may establish a payment plan for up to 12 months. My bill is more than $500. If you owe more than $500, you may establish a payment plan for a longer period of time, but not more than 24 months. Even if you establish a payment plan with the Department, you will still be required to pay a 10 percent penalty and interest that will continue to accrue on your unpaid tax balance until it is paid in full.
Official Payments offers more than just property tax payments. Pay your federal and state income tax, utility bill and even college tuition using our secure website. Just click a button below to check for your payment type, or visit our Who Can I Pay? page and enter your zip code. Official Payments makes it easy to pay Ohio property taxes using your favorite debit or credit card. It's fast, easy & secure, and your payment is processed immediately. You may even earn rewards points from your card. There's nothing better than knowing your Ohio property tax bill is Officially Paid
Step 2. Establish a payment plan with the taxing entity, before it goes up for auction. Those who live in Harris County can make payments online at the Harris County Tax Office website through Amegy Bank with the minimum payment of $1. You can use e-Check, MasterCard, American Express, Visa or Discover to pay the bill. You must contact the collection attorney for one of those entities if you're property is on the auction block to request a payment plan. You can make payments online at the Harris County Property Tax website until one of the entities sues you for back taxes. Step 4. Ask if the county publishes a list of delinquencies.
IN-ePay System. ePay is the Indiana Department of Revenue's electronic tax payment service. Convenient and easy to use, ePay allows both individuals and businesses to pay tax owed and view and make estimated corporate income tax payments. 1 Know when I will receive my tax refund. 2  File my taxes as an Indiana resident while I am in the military, but my spouse is not an Indiana resident. 3  Take the renter's deduction. 4  Pay my tax bill in installments.