For immediate self-care of an ankle sprain, try the R.I.C.E. approach: 1  Rest. 2  Avoid activities that cause pain, swelling or discomfort. 3  Ice. 4  Use an ice pack or slush bath immediately for 15 to 20 minutes and repeat every two to three hours while you're awake. 1 Avoid activities that cause pain, swelling or discomfort. 2  Ice. 3  Use an ice pack or slush bath immediately for 15 to 20 minutes and repeat every two to three hours while you're awake. 4  If you have vascular disease, diabetes or decreased sensation, talk with your doctor before applying ice.
1 R est. 2  You may need to use crutches until walking is not painful without them. 3  I ce. 4  For the first 48 to 72 hours or until swelling goes down, apply an ice pack for 10 to 20 minutes every 1 to 2 hours during the day. 5  After 48 hours, you can continue with ice or try contrast baths. 1 You may need to use crutches until walking is not painful without them. 2  I ce. 3  For the first 48 to 72 hours or until swelling goes down, apply an ice pack for 10 to 20 minutes every 1 to 2 hours during the day. 4
For a Grade I sprain, follow the R.I.C.E. guidelines: Rest your ankle by not walking on it. Limit weight bearing. Use crutches if necessary; if there is no fracture you are safe to put some weight on the leg. An ankle brace often helps control swelling and adds stability while the ligaments are healing. Ice it to keep down the swelling. Don't put ice directly on the skin (use a thin piece of cloth such as a pillow case between the ice bag and the skin) and don't ice more than 20 minutes at a time to avoid frost bite. Compression can help control swelling as well as immobilize and support your injury
Lifestyle and home remedies. For immediate self-care of a sprain or strain, try the R.I.C.E. approach — rest, ice, compression, elevation. In most cases beyond a minor strain or sprain, you'll want your doctor and physical therapist to help you with this process: 1  Rest. 2  Avoid activities that cause pain, swelling or discomfort.
You're most likely to sprain your ankle when you have your toes on the ground and heel up (plantar flexion). This position puts your ankle's ligaments under tension, making them vulnerable. A sudden force like landing on an uneven surface may turn your ankle inward (inversion). An ankle brace often helps control swelling and adds stability while the ligaments are healing. Ice it to keep down the swelling. Don't put ice directly on the skin (use a thin piece of cloth such as a pillow case between the ice bag and the skin) and don't ice more than 20 minutes at a time to avoid frost bite.
A sprained ankle means one or more ligaments on the outer side of your ankle were stretched or torn. If a sprain is not treated properly, you could have long-term problems. Typically the ankle is rolled either inward (inversion sprain) or outward (eversion sprain). An ankle brace often helps control swelling and adds stability while the ligaments are healing. Ice it to keep down the swelling. Don't put ice directly on the skin (use a thin piece of cloth such as a pillow case between the ice bag and the skin) and don't ice more than 20 minutes at a time to avoid frost bite.
Ice your ankle to prevent swelling and pain. 1  Apply ice to your ankle even if you plan to go to the doctor. 2  Ice will keep your ligaments from becoming inflamed and will stop any bleeding if you've torn a ligament. 3  Place a plastic bag with ice on your ankle for 15 to 20 minutes. Rest your ankle. Skip any activities that cause pain or limping. 1  If you have a severe sprain, then you should walk with crutches or a cane so that you don't cause further injury. 2  Vary your exercise routine. 3  If you're used to running on a treadmill, try swimming or using a rowing machine instead.
Home Treatment. Ankle sprains take an average of 6 weeks to heal but can take can up to 4 months, depending on the severity. An ankle brace, air stirrup, hiking boots, or other form of ankle support should be worn during this time to protect the ligaments. Some people who have repeated or severe sprains can develop long-term joint pain and weakness. Treating a sprained ankle can help prevent ongoing ankle problems. Rehabilitation (rehab) exercises for an ankle sprain can be done at home to promote proper healing and prevent chronic pain and instability.
Treatment Overview. Initial treatment for an ankle sprain is summarized as the RICE approach: 1  R est. 2  You may need to use crutches until walking is not painful without them. 3  I ce. 4  For the first 48 to 72 hours or until swelling goes down, apply an ice pack for 10 to 20 minutes every 1 to 2 hours during the day. 1 You may need to use crutches until walking is not painful without them. 2  I ce. 3  For the first 48 to 72 hours or until swelling goes down, apply an ice pack for 10 to 20 minutes every 1 to 2 hours during the day. 4  After 48 hours, you can continue with ice or try contrast baths