vs. Check Point UTM-1. A signature file is a short text file you create for use as a standard appendage at the end of your e-mail notes or Usenet messages. For example, you might include your full name, occupation or position, phone number, fax number, e-mail address, and the address of your Web site if you have one.
Get your email signature today. We are dedicated to crafting email signatures that have efficient designs and that work across all platforms. We know that there is a middle ground where function meets design, and we ensure all of our signatures meet the following criteria: We also offer a FREE email signature audit. 
signature-your name written in your own handwriting. name-a language unit by which a person or thing is known; his name really is George Washington; those are two names for the same thing. allograph-a signature written by one person for another. signature. n. 1. the name of a person or a mark or sign representing his name, marked by himself or by an authorized deputy. 2. the act of signing one's name. 3. a. a distinctive mark, characteristic, etc, that identifies a person or thing. b. (as modifier): a signature fragrance.
You can also say that someone signs their name. Sign your name in the book each time you use the photocopier. 2. 'signature'. However, when you write your name, you do not refer to what you write as your 'sign'. You call it your signature. Nino scrawled his signature on the bottom of the slip. ... signature. n. 1. the name of a person or a mark or sign representing his name, marked by himself or by an authorized deputy. 2. the act of signing one's name. 3. a. a distinctive mark, characteristic, etc, that identifies a person or thing. b. (as modifier): a signature fragrance.
Examples of SIGNATURE. 1  There is a place for your signature at the bottom of the form. 2  If we can collect 200,000 signatures on our petition, then our candidate will be included on the ballot. Full Definition of SIGNATURE. 1. a: the act of signing one's name to something b: the name of a person written with his or her own hand.
Signatures. Signatures are blocks of text that are automatically appended to every message that you send (including both new messages and replies to incoming messages). They are generally used to provide additional contact information, legal terms or some other boilerplate information that is relevant to every email. 
signature. 1  allograph-A signature or writing done for another person. 2  moniker-Originally meant a mark left by a tramp on a building or fence to indicate he/she had been there; therefore, a tramp's moniker identified him/her like a signature. signature. n. 1. the name of a person or a mark or sign representing his name, marked by himself or by an authorized deputy. 2. the act of signing one's name. 3. a. a distinctive mark, characteristic, etc, that identifies a person or thing. b. (as modifier): a signature fragrance.
noun. 1 A person’s name written in a distinctive way as a form of identification in authorizing a cheque or document or concluding a letter: the signature of a senior manager. More example sentences. 1  The analysis concluded that the signature on the document was ‘very similar’ to Chen's. 2  A petition is nothing more than a list of names, addresses and signatures with your cause written at the top of each page