Elevated maternal levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein were associated with an increased risk of fetal death, and the risk was highest with very high levels of alpha-fetoprotein, as compared with moderately elevated levels. 10 20 that the very high risks of fetal death that were associated with low levels of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein in some studies 5, 10, 21 were due to the inclusion of women with missed abortions.
Conclusions. An unexplained elevated level of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein in the second trimester of pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of subsequent fetal death, up to four to five months after alpha-fetoprotein screening. (N Engl J Med 1991; 325:6–10.). Full Text of Conclusions. ... 10 20 that the very high risks of fetal death that were associated with low levels of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein in some studies 5, 10, 21 were due to the inclusion of women with missed abortions.
Elevated alpha-fetoprotein refers to a state where alpha-fetoprotein levels are outside of the reference range. There are two categories of AFP tests: tests performed on serum (blood plasma) , and tests performed on amniotic fluid. Tests performed on serum are further categorized by the reason for performing the test: maternal serum, adult tumor marker, and pediatric tumor marker. 
MSAFP is a screening test that examines the level of alpha-fetoprotein in the mother’s blood during pregnancy. This is not a diagnostic test. It is often part of the triple screen test that assesses whether further diagnostic testing may be needed. It is important to remember that the AFP is a screening test and not a diagnostic test. This test only notes that a mother is at risk of carrying a baby with a potential disorder. There are approximately 25 to 50 abnormal test results for every 1,000 pregnancies tested.
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is a protein that is normally produced by the fetus' liver. AFP is present in the fluid around the fetus (amniotic fluid) and a small amount crosses the placenta and moves into the mother's blood stream. As the baby grows and produces more AFP, the amount in the mother's blood increases. Between weeks 15 and 20 of a pregnancy, a maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (MSAFP) screen may be offered. It's usually as part of a set of tests, which screen for genetic problems, called the quad screen. The AFP blood test determines how much AFP is in the mother's blood.
Amniocentesis was performed in 1038 patients with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (MSAFP) concentrations. Patients were divided into two groups based upon the amniotic fluid AFP concentration. Group 1 (N = 964) had a normal amniotic fluid AFP concentration and group 2 (N = 74) had elevated amniotic fluid AFP. Fetal chromosomal results were reviewed from the study population, with the finding of eight major fetal chromosomal abnormalities. Of the eight fetal chromosomal abnormalities, five were associated with elevated amniotic fluid AFP and three were associated with normal amniotic fluid AFP. The sensitivity and specificity of elevated amniotic fluid AFP concentrations in screening for a fetal chromosomal abnormality were 62.5 and 93.3%, respectively
Elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein concentration and fetal chromosomal abnormalities. Stiller RJ, de Regt RH, Suntag S, Baumgarten A, Hobbins JC, Mahoney MJ. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Bridgeport Hospital, Connecticut. Comment in Obstet Gynecol. 1990 Nov;76(5 Pt 1):893-4. Fetal chromosomal results were reviewed from the study population, with the finding of eight major fetal chromosomal abnormalities. Of the eight fetal chromosomal abnormalities, five were associated with elevated amniotic fluid AFP and three were associated with normal amniotic fluid AFP. The sensitivity and specificity of elevated amniotic fluid AFP concentrations in screening for a fetal chromosomal abnormality were 62.5 and 93.3%, respectively
Guide. An alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) blood test checks the level of AFP in a pregnant woman's blood. AFP is a substance made in the liver of an unborn baby (fetus). The amount of AFP in the blood of a pregnant woman can help see whether the baby may have such problems as spina bifida and anencephaly. An AFP test can also be done as part of a screening test to find other chromosomal problems, such as Down syndrome (trisomy 21) or Edwards syndrome (trisomy 18) .