Emerald Gemstone meaning. The emerald is the sacred stone of the goddess Venus. It was thought to preserve love. The emerald has long been the symbol of hope. It is considered by many to be the stone of prophecy. For some the emerald acts as a tranquilizer for a troubled mind. 
About Emerald-History and Introduction. Emerald is the most precious stone in the beryl group. The name comes from the old French word 'esmeralde', which was derived from the Greek word 'smaragdos' meaning 'green stone'. By definition, emerald is any medium to dark green beryl colored by chromium. Emeralds are most often cut in a special cut designed just for this gem; the emerald cut. The emerald cut is a step or trap cut featuring a rectangular or square shape with truncated corners. This cutting style maximizes the beauty and color of the stone, whilst protecting it from mechanical strain and internal stress.
Emerald is a gemstone and a variety of the mineral beryl (Be 3 Al 2 (SiO 3) 6) colored green by trace amounts of chromium and sometimes vanadium. Beryl has a hardness of 7.5–8 on the Mohs scale. Most emeralds are highly included, so their toughness (resistance to breakage) is classified as generally poor. The Gachala Emerald is one of the largest gem emeralds in the world, at 858 carats (171.6 g). This stone was found in 1967 at La Vega de San Juan mine in Gachala, Gachalá. Colombia it is housed at The National museum Of Natural history of The Smithsonian institution In, Washington.D. c
Oiling is a common emerald treatment and in most cases, it is done right at the mining location. The term 'oiling' refers to the practice of immersing emeralds in a colorless oil or resin (most often cedar oil) in order to enhance color, clarity and stability. Emeralds are most often cut in a special cut designed just for this gem; the emerald cut. The emerald cut is a step or trap cut featuring a rectangular or square shape with truncated corners. This cutting style maximizes the beauty and color of the stone, whilst protecting it from mechanical strain and internal stress.
The Precious Gemstone Emerald. Emerald, the green variety of Beryl, is the most famous and valuable green gemstone. Its beautiful green color, combined with durability and rarity, make it one of the most expensive gemstones. Deep green is the most desired color in Emeralds. 
While Emerald, the green variety of Beryl, may perhaps be the most famous of the family, Beryl also forms in other colors used as gems, such as blue Aquamarine, yellow Heliodor and Golden Beryl, pink Morganite, Red Beryl or Bixbite, and the colorless variety, Goshenite. Emerald is an excellent stone for reviving passion, whether for an interest, a person, or a job. To attract romantic love, wear or carry an Emerald out of sight near the heart. To call back an estranged love, speak the words you wish to say holding the stone close to your lips and seal it in an envelope.
In the Laboratory, separation of Emerald look-alike natural gemstones is a very simple process involving measurement of optical and physical properties. Visual observation is frequently all that is necessary to determine that a green gemstone is not an Emerald, due to the Emerald unique and distinct color. Descriptive terms are sometimes used before the name of a semi-previous gemstone, like Oriental emerald, which is actually a green sapphire. Labels like Tecla, Vanadium, Uralian, Cape, Prismatic, Night and Oriental are just a few of the names that mask semi-precious natural gemstones as emerald.
The emerald cockroach wasp or jewel wasp (Ampulex compressa) is a solitary wasp of the family Ampulicidae. It is known for its unusual reproductive behavior, which involves stinging a cockroach and using it as a host for its larvae. It thus belongs to the entomophagous parasites. 
• EMERALD (noun). The noun EMERALD has 3 senses: 1. a green transparent form of beryl; highly valued as a gemstone. 2. a transparent piece of emerald that has been cut and polished and is valued as a precious gem. 3. the green color of an emerald. Familiarity information: EMERALD used as a noun is uncommon.
Emerald Meaning, Powers and History. The emerald has been a gem of fascination in many cultures for over six thousand years. It is so prized, that carat for carat, a fine emerald may be two to three times as valuable as a diamond. 