DOXYCYCLINE (dox i SYE kleen) is a tetracycline antibiotic. It kills certain bacteria or stops their growth. It is used to treat many kinds of infections, like dental, skin, respiratory, and urinary tract infections. It also treats acne, Lyme disease, malaria, and certain sexually transmitted infections.
A: Doxycycline is a tetracycline-type antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections (e.g., Rickettsial infections, sexually transmitted infections, respiratory tract infections, ophthalmic infections, Anthrax, adjunctive therapy in acute intestinal amebiasis and severe acne, and prophylaxis of malaria). A: Doxycycline is a medication that is used to treat various infections such as lyme disease, urinary tract infections, and pneumonia. Doxycycline is in the class of antibiotics called tetracyclines that work by inhibiting the growth of bacteria giving the immune system a chance at eliminating the infection.
Doxycycline monohydrate capsules 100mg each. Click for Alternatives. By DOXYCYCLINE. Generic Monodox 100 Mg Capsules-Doxycycline is an antibiotic used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. This antibiotic only treats bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu). Unnecessary use or overuse of any antibiotic can lead to its decreased effectiveness. CHEMICAL NAME. DOXYCYCLINE. 
Descriptions. Doxycycline is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. It is also used to treat pimples and abscesses (usually on the face) that are caused by rosacea, also known as acne rosacea or adult acne. Doxycycline delayed-release tablets and tablets are also used to prevent malaria and treat anthrax infection after possible exposure and other problems as determined by your doctor.
A: Doryx (doxycycline hyclate) is a tetracycline-type antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections (e.g., Rickettsial infections, sexually transmitted infections, respiratory tract infections, ophthalmic infections, Anthrax, adjunctive therapy in acute intestinal amebiasis and severe acne, and prophylaxis of malaria). A: Doxycycline is a medication that is used to treat various infections such as lyme disease, urinary tract infections, and pneumonia. Doxycycline is in the class of antibiotics called tetracyclines that work by inhibiting the growth of bacteria giving the immune system a chance at eliminating the infection.
Doxycycline is a tetracycline antibiotic. It fights bacteria in the body. Doxycycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, and chlamydia, periodontitis (gum disease), and others. Doxycycline is also used to treat blemishes, bumps, and acne-like lesions caused by rosacea. Doxycycline will not treat facial redness caused by rosacea. Doxycycline may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Listen. DOXYCYCLINE (dox i SYE kleen) is a tetracycline antibiotic. It kills certain bacteria or stops their growth. It is used to treat many kinds of infections, like dental, skin, respiratory, and urinary tract infections. It also treats acne, Lyme disease, malaria, and certain sexually transmitted infections.
A: Doxycycline can be used for a number of different infections as follows: acne, anthrax, gum diseases, and rosacea, as well as bacterial infections such as chlamydia, typhus, tick bites, pneumonia, syphilis, gonorrhea, Lyme disease, plaque, malaria, and some urinary tract infections. A: Doxycycline is a medication that is used to treat various infections such as lyme disease, urinary tract infections, and pneumonia. Doxycycline is in the class of antibiotics called tetracyclines that work by inhibiting the growth of bacteria giving the immune system a chance at eliminating the infection.
Generic 100 mg doxycycline capsules. In addition to the general indications for all members of the tetracycline antibiotics group, doxycycline is frequently used to treat Lyme disease, chronic prostatitis, sinusitis, pelvic inflammatory disease, acne, rosacea, and rickettsial infections. It is also useful for the treatment of malaria when used with quinine and for the prevention of malaria. Doxycycline can be used either by mouth or intravenously. Common side effects include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, a red rash, and an increased risk of a sunburn.