I would look for regular monthly charges being made-other than account interest. PPI can be called all sorts of things-if you're not sure, then ask us here. If there's no evidence of PPI, then I suspect you didn't have any-but remember to check early statements as well as recent ones. With regard to penalty charges, there can be an argument for reclaiming some of these as a consequence of the PPI, but if not, then it can be difficult these days. 
Amounts can be enormous with credit card PPI. In fact, the biggest success we've ever had reported to us was an 82,000 reclaim. Though the key here is the more outstanding debt you had, the more you can likely reclaim as most cards charged roughly 80p per month per 100 of outstanding debt. It may be easier if you have the original card agreement and terms. Under the Consumer Credit Act, if your account's still open you've a legal right to get your agreement from the lender for 1. If your account s closed and they can t find your policy terms it'll be harder to process your complaint.
If you have a mortgage, loan, credit card, store card or any other loaned finance in the last 10 years, you may have had Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) included as part of the agreement. Check the agreements and statements to see if it includes PPI. You will need to find out if you have been paying PPI if you are not 100% sure. We offer a free check, which allows you to find out whether or not you may have been mis-sold.
Once you get the answer to the question How do I know if I paid PPI? then you can begin taking care of your problem if in fact you find that you have one. Remember, How do I know if I paid PPI? is a very common question. If you have a loan or a credit card that you have concern over whether or not you paid or are currently paying PPI, then the first thing you may want to do is look over the documents you were given with the loan. In some cases these charges will show up as extra surcharges with abbreviated titles.
You’ve probably heard about the mis-selling of payment protection insurance, the “reclaim PPI” adverts, and the refunds people have received. Because of the high payouts, a lot of claims management companies have sprung up, trying to earn commissions from claiming refunds on behalf of their clients. 
Top tip. If you are told you didn't have PPI, one option is to ask who underwrote their policies (i.e. the company used to determine your insurance). You can contact the underwriter directly to see if you ever held a policy with them. You can still apply for PPI compensation on other products even if you don't have the paperwork-provided you've paid into them since 2007 (that six year timescale again). The easy way to do this is to check your credit reports: Experian, Equifax or CallCredit will list every debt you've had that within the last 6 years. You can see your credit file for a one-off 2, or get a free trial. Next, cross-check your products against our 'known offenders' list and prioritise those that feature.
If you have a credit card or store card, you may be able to reclaim 1,000s of PPI yourself, easily, for free. Don't hand 30% to a no-win no-fee claims handler. This step-by-step guide with free templates will let you join the millions of people who've successfully complained. It may be easier if you have the original card agreement and terms. Under the Consumer Credit Act, if your account's still open you've a legal right to get your agreement from the lender for 1. If your account s closed and they can t find your policy terms it'll be harder to process your complaint.
You can check whether or not you have had PPI in a number of ways: 1  You have a credit agreement that has included the term(s) Insurance, PPI, ASU, or a combination or similar term. 2  You have a charge for insurance, such as a single premium, or a % every month, depending upon your balance. You will need to find out if you have been paying PPI if you are not 100% sure. We offer a free check, which allows you to find out whether or not you may have been mis-sold.
If you aren’t sure if you had PPI, check the breakdown of your account for a one-off or monthly insurance payment, e.g., ‘payment cover’, ‘protection plan’, ‘loan protection’ or ‘loan care’. These are all signs of some form of PPI policy. Some can find you with just name and address and others may need the account number of the credit the PPI was attached to and some may need a specific PPI account number. If you are still a customer then all companies should be able to easily find your account details from name and address.
It's worth noting that on your paperwork, PPI may be called 'payment cover' or 'loan protection' or 'accident, sickness and unemployment cover (ASU)'. Don't panic though if you can't find any of the documents because your lender should have them on file and be able to tell you whether you've had PPI. If your account is still open, you also have a legal right under the Consumer Credit Act to get hold of a copy of the original credit agreement for £1.