Typhoid fever is a life-threatening infectious disease of the digestive tract caused by the bacterium Salmonella typhi. The disease lasts several weeks and convalescence takes some time. The incubation period is 10 to 20 days, depending on how large a dose of bacteria has been taken up. Typhoid Fever. Typhoid fever is an infectious life-threatening disease of the digestive tract, and is still common where sanitation standards are low. Better prevention can reduce spreading of the disease, but new antibiotics and vaccines are needed. Genomic and proteomic research could provide better understanding of the disease
Typhoid fever, also known as enteric fever, or commonly just typhoid ,[1] is an illness caused by the bacterium Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi. Typhoid is a disease, so it does not allow the body to function normally. It affects the body by causing symptoms such as a fever, headache, general discomfort and a lack of a … ppetite. Furthermore, some people may experience rose spots on the trunk of the body. 3 people found this useful.
Salmonella Bacteremia. Bacteremia means that the bacterium has spread into the bloodstream. Once this happens, Salmonella can affect several organ systems in the body. This is what is known as typhoid or enteric fever. Salmonella is a common bacterium that causes infection in humans, usually through exposure to inadequately processed foods like chicken or eggs, contaminated water, and contact with animals like reptiles and amphibians. The people affected most are usually very young or have underlying immune deficiencies.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Once the bacteria that causes typhoid fever is consumed, it travels from the digestive system into the blood. As the bacteria travel through the body, symptoms like high fever, headache, and overall fatigue can develop. The digestive system is also affected by the bacteria, which leads to stomach pain, diarrhea or constipation, and weight loss. The blood can carry the bacteria to other organs including the lungs, liver, gallbladder, and kidneys. Infections in these organs can cause other problems and symptoms, such as pneumonia. The most serious complication of typhoid fever is intestinal bleeding or perforation, which may develop in the third week of illness. About 5% of individuals with typhoid fever experience this complication.
Other Body Systems Affected. From the blood, salmonella can cause several infections. In patients with sickle cell disease, salmonella can cause osteomyelitis. This bone infection usually presents with localized pain, especially when trying to move, and fever. Salmonella is a common bacterium that causes infection in humans, usually through exposure to inadequately processed foods like chicken or eggs, contaminated water, and contact with animals like reptiles and amphibians. The people affected most are usually very young or have underlying immune deficiencies.
If left untreated, typhus can have serious effects on the body. Typhus causes inflamed blood vessels, which in turn can cause a dramatic drop in blood pressure as well as internal bleeding. Patients who suffer from typhus may also experience kidney failure or swelling of the liver and spleen.
Typhoid fever is an acute illness associated with fever caused by the Salmonella typhi bacteria. It can also be caused by Salmonella paratyphi, a related bacterium that usually causes a less severe illness. Typhoid fever is contracted by drinking or eating the bacteria in contaminated food or water. People with acute illness can contaminate the surrounding water supply through stool, which contains a high concentration of the bacteria. Contamination of the water supply can, in turn, taint the food supply.
Typhoid fever is caused by Salmonella typhi bacteria, and the transmission of this bacterium in human body it ceases to bring fever. This normally is found in contaminated food and water. 