REEF HOME \\. PACIFIC SPECIES REFERENCE. In all of REEF's materials, we try to use the standardized common names published by the American Fisheries Society. Below are the fishes on REEF's Pacific scanform, with the common name that is listed on the form and the scientific name. Bass Barred Sand Bass-Paralabrax nebulifer Giant Sea Bass-Stereolepis gigas Kelp Bass-Paralabrax clathratus Spotted Sand Bass-Paralabrax maculatofasciatus.
Bull kelp forests are highly productive systems, contributing vast quantities of organic matter and nutrients to coastal food chains. Four species of bull kelp are found around New Zealand, and the most common, Durvillaea antarctica, also grows around the subantarctic islands and southern coasts of South America. In northern New Zealand it grows only on very exposed headlands and becomes more common in the cooler waters south of Cook Strait. Bull kelp. Bull kelp or rimurapa (Durvillaea species) is the most striking seaweed of the exposed coasts. Its tough, flexible fronds are secured to intertidal rocks by a solid disc-shaped holdfast capable of withstanding tremendous forces when storm waves crash onto reefs and cliffs.
Kelp forests in the eastern and northern Pacific commonly have complex three-dimensional structure, with many coexisting species. As in coral reefs, shading is a major mechanism of intra-specific and interspecific competition. Nereocystis luetkeana often dominates northeastern Pacific kelp forests. It has a long stipe that is attached often to a small rock and is kept aloft by a gas-filled float. The fronds extend from the float. This makes for a very unstable arrangement and strong storms often uproot the plant.
Laminaria longicarpa. Photo by Jon Witman. Kelp forests on the east coast of North America have fewer species but often are quite lush, and support rich commu-nities of benthic invert-ebrates. They range southward to Cape Cod and occur only sporadically southward to the eastern tip of Long Island, New York. Nereocystis luetkeana often dominates northeastern Pacific kelp forests. It has a long stipe that is attached often to a small rock and is kept aloft by a gas-filled float. The fronds extend from the float. This makes for a very unstable arrangement and strong storms often uproot the plant.
Giant kelp is common along the coast of the eastern Pacific Ocean, from Baja California north to southeast Alaska, and is also found in the southern oceans near South America, South Africa, and Australia. Individual algae may grow to more than 45 metres (148 ft) long at a rate of as much as 2 feet (61 cm) per day. In high-density populations, giant kelp individuals compete with other individuals of the species for space and resources. Giant kelp may also compete with Pterygophora californica in these circumstances.
Kelp forests provide habitat for a variety of invertebrates, fish, marine mammals, and birds. Many species of fish and marine mammals inhabit kelp forests for protection and food. In kelp forests, the most commonly found invertebrates are bristle worms, scud, prawn, snails, and brittle stars. These animals feed on the holdfasts that keep kelp anchored to the bottom of the ocean and algae that are abundant in kelp forest
Pacific Kelp Forest Urchins. Photo by Paul Banko. This lovely photograph shows the three common urchins found in eastern Pacific kelp forests. Red = Strongylocentrotus franciscanus; Purple = Strongylocentrotus purpuratus; White = Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis. Nereocystis luetkeana often dominates northeastern Pacific kelp forests. It has a long stipe that is attached often to a small rock and is kept aloft by a gas-filled float. The fronds extend from the float. This makes for a very unstable arrangement and strong storms often uproot the plant.
Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. Kelps are large seaweeds (algae) belonging to the brown algae (Phaeophyceae) in the order Laminariales. There are about 30 different genera. Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. The organisms require nutrient-rich water with temperatures between 6 and 14 °C (43 and 57 °F)
The kelps generally include the many large brown seaweeds and are among the most familiar forms found on North American coasts. Some have fronds up to 200 ft (61 m) long, e.g., the Pacific coast Nereocystis and Macrocystis, found also off the Cape of Good Hope. Common Species and Their Uses. The largest of the green algae, Ulva (sea lettuce), grows to a ribbon or sheet 3 ft (91 cm) long. It provides food for many sea creatures, and its broad surface releases a large amount of oxygen.