922,102 questions onWikianswers. The products of one reaction are the reactants of another. So, cellular respiration consumes sugars and oxygen and creats carbon dioxide, water, and releases energy. Photosynthesis combines energy, carbon dioxide, and water to form sugar and oxygen
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cellular respiration and photosynthesis are complementary processes because they use each others' products and reactants. Photosynthesis' products are cell respiration's reactants; likewise, cell respiration's products are photosynthesis' reactants. Also, photosynthesis is known to take away carbon dioxide from the air and put in oxygen while cellular respiration does the opposite, putting in carbon dioxide while taking away oxygen.
Photosynthesis takes Carbon dioxide, Water and light energy and makes Sugars and Oxygen. Cellular respiration takes Sugars and Oxygen and makes Carbon dioxide, water and energ … y. The two processes are the inverse of one another one stores energy and the other releases that stored energy. 17 people found this useful. Because the reactants required for cellular respiration (glucose and oxygen) are the products of photosyntheses And the and the products of cellular respiration (carbon dio … xide and water) are the reactants of photosynthesis.
Cellular respiration use oxygen to produce energy from food and photosynthesis use sunlight, carbon dioxide, and water to make food. Because the reactants required for cellular respiration (glucose and oxygen) are the products of photosyntheses And the and the products of cellular respiration (carbon dio … xide and water) are the reactants of photosynthesis.
Report Abuse. Photosynthesis occurs in the chloroplast and converts light energy to chemical energy, and uses carbon dioxide and water, while cellular respiration occurs in the cytosol and/or mitochondria and converts chemical energy (breaks down the glucose molecules) and they are both chemical energy. Anonymous · 8 months ago.
Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are complementary processes by which living things obtain needed substances. They both consume and create the same substances (water, glucose, oxygen, and carbon dioxide) but in different ways. Cellular respiration, on the other hand, is the process by which living things convert oxygen and glucose to carbon dioxide and water, thereby yielding energy. It does not require the presence of sunlight and is always occurring in living organisms. Cellular respiration takes place in the mitochondria of cells.
Photosynthesis takes Carbon dioxide, Water and light energy and makes Sugars and Oxygen. Cellular respiration takes Sugars and Oxygen and makes Carbon dioxide, water and energ … y. The two processes are the inverse of one another one stores energy and the other releases that stored energy. Because the reactants required for cellular respiration (glucose and oxygen) are the products of photosyntheses And the and the products of cellular respiration (carbon dio … xide and water) are the reactants of photosynthesis.
Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are said to be reverse chemical processes because the reactants of photosynthesis are the products of cell respiration and the reactant … s of cell respiration are the products of photosynthesis. Because the reactants required for cellular respiration (glucose and oxygen) are the products of photosyntheses And the and the products of cellular respiration (carbon dio … xide and water) are the reactan
Photosynthesis uses light energy to make ATP from carbon dioxide and water while cellular respiration makes carbon dioxide while using glucose to make ATP. The CO2 is used by the plants while animals make CO2. Because the reactants required for cellular respiration (glucose and oxygen) are the products of photosyntheses And the and the products of cellular respiration (carbon dio … xide and water) are the reactants of photosynthesis.