Soma (carisoprodol) has a half-life elimination of 2.4 hours. The active metabolite meprobamate has a half-life elimination of 10 hours -- in healthy individuals. Usuall … y, compounds and their metabolites are detectable in urine for 5 (five) half-lives. Around 7-8 days. Darvocets will stay in your system anywhere from 3-7 d … ays after last use is discontinued. It depends on how much of it is contained in your metabolites in your body. Metabolites are usually excreted through bodily fluids.
Guest. Carisoprodol has a rapid, 30 minute onset of action, with the effects lasting for approximately 2–6 hours. It is metabolized in the liver via the cytochrome P450 oxidase isozyme CYP2C19, excreted by the kidneys and has an approximate 8 hour half-life. 
2. Get help from a doctor now ›. 12 hours: The half-life of soma is approximately 2 hours. That's means the time it takes the blood to eliminate half of the drug is 2 hours. It takes approximately 6 half lives for a drug to be eliminated from your system.2*6/24= 0.5 days. ...Read more
Soma is the brand name of carisoprodol. Carisoprodol has an elimination half-life of between 100 minutes to 2.4 hours, while its primary metabolite, meprobamate, which is also drug-testable in blood or urine, has a much longer elimination half-life of 6 to 17 hours (average is around 10 hours). If you are a regular user or abuser of Soma, carisoprodol and especially its metabolite, meprobamate, will be detectable in the urine drug tests for around 3-4 days, depending on your dosing, frequency, weight, and the test used.
soma usually stays in your system for up to 50 hours... i dont think because you had more pills then usual, that necessarily means it'll be in your system longer... beca … use it all digests and works at the same time. so i guess my answer would be 50+ hours. Other AnswersPot stays about 30 to 40 days if you smoke everyday then quit, coke stays about 2 to 3 days, the rest I don't think stays very long maybe a day or two!I have found that it varies by person and by substance. generally, weed stays in your fat cells (and therefore urine) for anywhere from 3 weeks - 3 months.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Carisoprodol (Soma) is metabolized to meprobamate and it is this that determines how long it will stay in your system. If you are asking how long the benefit will last after a single dose the answer is 4 to 6 hours. If you are asking how long meprobamate will be detectable on a drug screen the answer is 1 to 3 days after the last dose but this is dependent in part upon how many you take a day and how long you have been taking it.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Soma (carisoprodol) has a half-life elimination of 2.4 hours. The active metabolite meprobamate has a half-life elimination of 10 hours -- in healthy individuals. Usually, compounds and their metabolites are detectable in urine for 5 (five) half-lives. Other AnswersPot stays about 30 to 40 days if you smoke everyday then quit, coke stays about 2 to 3 days, the rest I don't think stays very long maybe a day or two!I have found that it varies by person and by substance. generally, weed stays in your fat cells (and therefore urine) for anywhere from 3 weeks - 3 months.
How long does carisoprodol stay in your system and is it detected in drug screening. My boyfriend took one (1) yesterday and was called in today for a drug test for a job he applied for two weeks ago. Normally, basic drug tests for work purposes do not test for carisoprodol. They only test for 5 basic drugs that are often abused.