Thyroid-stimulating hormone, also known as thyrotropin, is secreted from cells in the anterior pituitary called thyrotrophs, finds its receptors on epithelial cells in the thyroid gland, and stimulates that gland to synthesize and release thyroid hormones.
The Anterior pituitary gland secretes the thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) this targets the thyroid gland, stimulating the release of thyroid hormones.    Thyroid- … stimulating horomone(TSH) is secreted by the Pitutary gland(Specifically thyrotrope cells of Anterior pitutary gland). TSH regulates thyroid gland.
The thyroid gland is part of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis, and control of thyroid hormone secretion is exerted by classical negative feedback, as depicted in the diagram. Thyroid-releasing hormone (TRH) from the hypothalamus stimulates TSH from the pituitary, which stimulates thyroid hormone release. As blood concentrations of thyroid hormones increase, they inhibit both TSH and TRH, leading to shutdown of thyroid epithelial cells.
thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), a substance secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that controls the release of thyroid hormone and is necessary for the growth and function of the thyroid gland.
The most important controller of TSH secretion is thyroid-releasing hormone. Thyroid-releasing hormone is secreted by hypothalamic neurons into hypothalamic-hypophyseal portal blood, finds its receptors on thyrotrophs in the anterior pituitary and stimulates secretion of TSH.
thyroid h's see thyroid hormones. thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) thyrotropin. thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) a tripeptide hormone of the hypothalamus, which stimulates release of thyrotropin from the pituitary gland. In humans, it also acts as a prolactin releasing factor.
The 2 main thyroid hormones are T3 (triiodothyronine) and T4 (thyroxine). The amount of thyroid hormones secreted is controlled by another hormone, called thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), which is released from the pituitary gland in your head.