A vacation hot spot, the lively city of Buena Park is located just 5 miles from Disneyland and 20 miles from Los Angeles. 
The gorgeous city of Buena Park is located in the heart of southern California, hence its nickname as the Center of Southland.. Known internationally for one of its most famous attractions, Knott's Berry Farm, this city is home to many other popular attractions. 
Buena Park, California. Knott's Soak City Orange County is a 13-acre waterpark, located across the street from Knott's Berry Farm, and part of Knott's Southern California Resort. Themed after Southern California's 1950s beach scene, this waterpark has 1.8 million gallons of water slides and attractions. Knott's Soak City is located south of the 91 Freeway on Beach Blvd in Buena Park and across the street from Knott's Berry Farm theme park. From the 91 Freeway or Interstate 5 south, exit Beach Blvd and proceed south. From Interstate 5 north, exit La Palma Ave. and proceed west.
Buena Park is home to one of the 13 special district libraries in California. The Buena Park Library District is a single-purpose library district governed by an elected Board of Trustees, and has as its principal source of income through property tax proration. In 1885, James A. Whitaker, a wholesale grocer from Chicago, purchased 690 acres (2.8 km 2) of this land from Stearns. In 1887, Whitaker founded the City of Buena Park in conjunction with the railway development of what we now know as Orange County.
The California Welcome Center Buena Park is situated just 5 miles from Disneyland®, 15 miles from Huntington Beach, 20 miles from John Wayne Airport and 20 miles from Los Angeles. California Welcome Center-Buena Park. Known as The OC, Orange County is located in the heart of Southern California – the geographic centre of beautiful places and bountiful attractions. With 42 miles of breathtaking beaches, legendary theme parks, world-class shopping, renowned arts and California cuisine, The OC entices visitors with endless discoveries.
With so much to see and do in the OC, a stopover at the California Welcome Center Buena Park is a must for visitors. Located in the historic Stage Stop Hotel, built in 1890, the hotel was once a popular overnight rest stop for stagecoach travelers and now continues its legacy of assisting Orange County visitors. Known as The OC, Orange County is located in the heart of Southern California – the geographic centre of beautiful places and bountiful attractions. With 42 miles of breathtaking beaches, legendary theme parks, world-class shopping, renowned arts and California cuisine, The OC entices visitors with endless discoveries.
Buena Park is a city in northwestern Orange County, California, about 12 miles (20 km) northwest of downtown Santa Ana, the county seat. As of Census 2010 the population was 80,530. The city, which tags itself as Center of the Southland, is home to several tourist attractions, most notably Knott's Berry Farm. In 1885, James A. Whitaker, a wholesale grocer from Chicago, purchased 690 acres (2.8 km 2) of this land from Stearns. In 1887, Whitaker founded the City of Buena Park in conjunction with the railway development of what we now know as Orange County.
Buena Park-Orange County. Welcome to Buena Park! A finalist in USA Today's Most Fun Small Town In America contest, Buena Park is not only known for it's premier location in Orange County but for its world famous entertainment-including the nation's first theme park, Knott's Berry Farm®. The 70,000 square foot European-style castle is located on seven acres in the heart of Buena Park's Entertainment Zone. Offering shows 365 days a year. In addition to the world-class attractions that Buena Park, California has to offer, there's plenty of SoCal shopping to indulge in.