[ 2 syll. at-kin(s) , atk-i- ns ] The baby boy name Atkins is pronounced AE TKihNZ †. Atkins' language of origin is Hebrew and it is predominantly used in the English language. In addition, Atkins is a variation (English) of Adam. Variations of Atkins include Adkin (English), Akin, Akins, Akyn, Akyns, Atkin, Atkyn, and Atkyns. Atkins is a rare baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. In 2012, within the family of boy names directly linked to Atkins, Adam was the most popular. Baby names that sound like Atkins include Atkyns, Addams, Athens, Adamok, Adonys, and Athanasius.
In the modern idiom the surname has many variant spellings including Adkins, Adkinson, Atkyns and Adkisson. Henry Atkins, M.D. (1558 - 1635), was president of the College of Physicians six times between 1607 and 1625, and attended Henry, Prince of Wales, in his last illness (1612). The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Atkyns, which was dated 1327, in the Subsidy Rolls of Worcestershire, during the reign of King Edward 11, known as Edward of Caernafon, 1307 - 1327. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.
Atkins is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#619 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of Atkins and associated names. Adam (#79 the previous year) , Adan (#373) , Addie and Addison are the popular varying forms of Atkins (outside Top 1000) .
Atkins is a surname of English origin. At the time of the British Census of 1881, its frequency was highest in Buckinghamshire (6.0 times the British average), followed by Huntingdonshire, Leicestershire, Warwickshire, Rutland, Kent, Dorset, Norfolk and Berkshire. The name Atkins may refer to: 1  Al Atkins, British singer. 2  M. Alison Atkins, British illustrator
Atkins. Atkins is a pet-form of Adam, the -kins suffix denoting the little one.. The early spelling was Adekyn, which then became Adkin and Adkins. In England these names changed over time to Atkins, in some places to Atkin, and in Scotland to Aitken. A William Atkyns was recorded in the subsidy rolls of Worcestershire in 1327. Atkins has been a less common surname in England than its cousin Atkinson. But Atkins spread across the country; while Atkinson has been mainly a northern name. Atkins, Atkin and Adkins are the most common spellings today. Atkins is the most common in the UK, Adkins (by a small margin) in America
Atkins, equivalent to Adkins, literally means son of little Adam, as Adams Jr. is used in 21st-century America. A patronymic name, Ad(e) is a diminutive form of the biblical name Adam, meaning red earth, and Old English kin is a diminutive suffix meaning little. The change from d to t was simply dialectic, and the ending s indicates patronymism.
Atkins /at-kins/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Atkins' name origin is Hebrew, and the name Atkins means earth. Atkins is an alternate form of Adam (Hebrew): from adama. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of Atkins and associated names. Adam (#79 the previous year) , Adan (#373) , Addie and Addison are the popular varying forms of Atkins (outside Top 1000) .
This interesting surname derives from Ad, a pet form of the Hebrew male given name Adam, meaning red earth, with reference to the substance from which the first man was formed, plus the Olde English pre 7th Century diminutive suffix -kin. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Atkyns, which was dated 1327, in the Subsidy Rolls of Worcestershire, during the reign of King Edward 11, known as Edward of Caernafon, 1307 - 1327. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.
This long-established surname derives from Ad(e), a pet form of the Hebrew given name Adam, meaning red-earth (possibly referring to the earth from which God formed the first man in the Old Testament), plus the Olde English pre 7th Century diminutive suffix -kin. 
You can find out where the majority of the Atkins families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Atkins immigration records. You can find out when most of the Atkins families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.