1 cream of tartar (also known as Potassium bitartrate) which is used in wine making and, mixed with backing soda, it makes backing powder. 2  there is a dish made out of raw fillet steak (or horse meat) chopped fine with herbs and served as a patty with capers and a raw egg that is called steak tartar. Cream of tartar is the common name for potassium hydrogen tartrate. It is an acid based salt used in cooking. It is most often used in sugar based desserts as the acid inhibit … s crystals forming producing a creamier texture. It is also used in meringues to help stabilize and give more volume to the beaten egg whites
Steak tartare is a meat dish made from finely chopped or minced raw beef or horsemeat. It is often served with onions, capers and seasonings (the latter typically incorporating fresh ground pepper and Worcestershire sauce), sometimes with a raw egg yolk, and often on rye bread. Although the word 'tartare' presumably refers to the Tartar people of Central Asia, and there are many stories connecting steak tartare with them, steak tartare is not related to Tatar cuisine. A à la tartare or simply tartare still means served with tartar sauce for some, dishes mostly fried. fish
In some situations, vinegar can be substituted for cream of tartar, although there is no exact substitute for the powder. This can be done when beating egg whites or making meringue, and it can also be done in a baking recipe that calls for separate measures of cream of tartar and baking soda. 
Your best bet is not to let tartar form on your teeth. Here's how: 1  Brush regularly, twice a day for 2 minutes a time. 2  A 30-second scrub twice a day won’t remove plaque or prevent tartar. 3  Use a brush with soft bristles that is small enough to fit into your mouth. 
Unlike plaque, which is a colorless film of bacteria, tartar is a mineral buildup that's fairly easy to see if above the gumline. The most common sign of tartar is a yellow or brown color to teeth or gums. The only way for sure to detect tartar — and to remove it — is to see your dentist. PLAQUE & TARTAR. Definition. Plaque is a sticky, colorless film of bacteria that constantly forms on our teeth and along the gum line. Plaque contains bacteria that cause cavities and gum disease. Tartar is calcified or hardened plaque that attaches to the enamel on your teeth and below the gum line. Signs & Symptoms. Everyone develops plaque because bacteria are constantly growing in our mouths, so it is not easy to see
1. : a substance consisting essentially of cream of tartar that is derived from the juice of grapes and deposited in wine casks together with yeast and other suspended matters as a pale or dark reddish crust or sediment; especially: a recrystallized product yielding cream of tartar on further purification. 2.
The name is a shortening of the original  a à la  tartare or served with tartar , sauce a dish popular in the 19th and early 20th. centuries Although the word 'tartare' presumably refers to the Tartar people of Central Asia, and there are many stories connecting steak tartare with them, steak tartare is not related to Tatar cuisine. A à la tartare or simply tartare still means served with tartar sauce for some, dishes mostly fried. fish
Cream of tartar is used primarily in cooking, though it is also used as a cleaning agent by mixing it together with white vinegar and rubbing the paste onto hard water deposits and soap scum. Here are some of the culinary uses of cream of tartar: 1  Added to whipped cream after it has been whipped to stabilize it. Cream of Tartar is potassium bitartrate, also known as potassium hydrogen tartrate, which has a chemical formula of KC 4 H 5 O 6. Cream of tartar is an odorless white crystalline powder.