Cottonmouth Appearance: Cottonmouth snakes, otherwise known as water moccasins, are a medium sized snake, often growing to be four feet in length, and I've even seen up to five feet. They are generally a dark shade of brown or a dull black and will occasionally have lighter banding visible on their sides.
Graham's Crayfish Snake. Graham's crayfish snake has a range that overlaps much of the cottonmouth's and, like the cottonmouth, this species spends a great deal of its time in and near the water. They can also resemble cottonmouths in appearance, with their dull brownish scales.
The water moccasin, North America's only venomous water snake, has a distinctive blocky, triangular head; a thick body; and a dangerous bite. Water moccasins rarely bite humans, however, and only attack when threatened.
There are three subspecies of Cottonmouth snakes: the Eastern Cottonmouth snake (A. p. piscivorus), the Western Cottonmouth snake (A. p. leucostoma) and the Florida Cottonmouth snake (A. p. conanti).
A water moccasin eats a bullfrog. The snake's diet consists of fish, small mammals, birds and amphibians; reptiles such as lizards, baby alligators and turtles; and other snakes, including smaller water moccasins.
A Water Moccasin and a Cottonmouth are the same species of snake, Agkistrodon piscivorus “hooked-tooth fish-eater”. I'm not sure which name is more popular. The moccasin name is more of a native name, I believe, because these snakes live in water and have a color pattern similar to native shoes.
The eastern cottonmouth is very buoyant and usually swims across the surface of the water. All other water snakes found in Virginia swim with just a small portion of their neck and head above the water surface. Keep in mind that all of our water snakes, including the eastern cottonmouth can swim completely submerged.
Though some species may resemble cottonmouths, these venomous snakes are still identifiable if you know what to look for. Adult cottonmouths are heavy-bodied snakes with noticeably thicker heads than bodies (something that distinguishes them from many of the water snakes they are mistaken for).