Xanax has a half life of 11.2 hours, 16.3 hours (elderly), and 19.7 hours (for those with alcoholic liver disease). So after your last dose your system should be clean about 23 hours.
Answers. Best Answer: Alprazolam (xanax) has a half life of 6 - 12 hours so half of the drug will be gone in about 9 hours and then it will be down to a quarter of your dose in 18 hours etc. It should be completely undetectable within 3 - 5 days.
Best Answer: Alprazolam (xanax) has a half life of 6 - 12 hours so half of the drug will be gone in about 9 hours and then it will be down to a quarter of your dose in 18 hours etc.
A single 0.5 mg dose of Xanax stays in your system for 3 to 5 days. But the longer period of taking Xanax, and the higher the dosages, the longer it will take your system to get rid of traces of Xanax. You may sometimes need a month or more to get yourself quite clear of the medication.
Xanax’s average half-life is 11 hours. This means that it takes an average of 11 hours for the body to eliminate half the Xanax dose. In older or obese people, or those with liver disease, Xanax’s half-life is longer, as long as 40 hours. It takes several half-lives to eliminate a drug completely.
As for duration of action of up to 6 hours, 6 to 12 hours is the half-life period of Xanax. That is, after this length of time, one half of the taken dose is still present in your system. After another 6 to 12 hours, a half of this half is still present, and so on. How long Xanax will stay in your system cannot be predicted for sure.
A single 0.5 mg dose of Xanax stays in your system for 3 to 5 days. But the longer period of taking Xanax, and the higher the dosages, the longer it will take your system to g … et rid of traces of Xanax. You may sometimes need a month or more to get yourself quite clear of the medication.
XANAX (alprazolam) HAS a duration of action of up to 6 hours. If you want to know how long after you take it can it be DETECTED, that's different. Most benzodiazapines, when taken on a regular basis, can be detected in the urine from 24 hours to 72 hours.
Well... As for duration of action of up to 6 hours, 6 to 12 hours is the half-life period of Xanax. That is, after this length of time, one half of the taken dose is still present in your system. After another 6 to 12 hours, a half of this half is still present, and so on.