That's why you'll feel much cooler on a 60-degree day than on a 90-degree day. The sun is another factor to consider. When meteorologists measure the temperature outside, they measure it in the shade. However, if it's 90 degrees in the shade and you're out in the sun, you're absorbing additional heat from the sun. 
Fever, also known as pyrexia and febrile response, is defined as having a temperature above the normal range due to an increase in the body's temperature set-point. There is not a single agreed upon upper limit for normal temperature with sources using values between 37.5 and 38.3 °C (99.5 and 100.9 °F). 
Best Answer: i couldn't give you an exact temperature but if your system is operating efficiently you should have a difference of approx. 17-20 degrees between the air blowing out of your supply air vents and your return air vent or vents {supplies push air out ,returns suck air in}. Source(s): oy79r · 9 years ago. Report Abuse. As a ball park figure, the temperature of the air from the vents should be some where about 15 to 20 degrees colder that the room temperature. That is strictly ball park, there are many factors that will affect the actual outcome.
Temperature is the measurement of average kinetic energy of the particles which compose the matter being tested. When heat flows into a material, one of two things can happen -- the temperature of the material can rise, or there may be a change in state (such as from liquid to vapor). These measure of the energy of these collisions is temperature. So, temperature can result from heat being introduced into an object; that is, heat is energy introduced into a system and one affect heat can have is to increase the
I'm trying to write up one of my 4 required mock-up inspection reports for membership on this organization. I inspected a house recently that had the attic fan temperature settings at 115 degrees and 120 degrees (one at each end of the house). I've seen recommended settings to be any where from 95 degrees to 105 degrees.
I doubt your A/C could maintain that low of a temperature at 104. If you can (and can afford) to keep the air at a chilly 72 I would think your AC is working a well as can be expected. Judi (38420) “Great Answer” (0) Flag as… ¶. It’s complicated. The critical measure of the operation of the cooling unit itself is the amount of temperature drop over the cooling coil, in other words the difference in the temperature of the air on the upstream and downstream sides of the cooling coil. That should be in the neighborhood of 20 degrees. That’s pretty much independent of outside temperature. But there’s another factor that does very much depend on outside temperature, and that’s duct loss.
I have a Goodman GSC130361, 3 ton ac unit. The air coming out of the vents is 66 degrees. I was told by the company that installed it, that the air should be between 50-55 degrees. That is a big difference. They came yesterday and checked the freon in the unit and we changed the filters. 
Temperature: Temperature is a measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles that make up the substance. Our understanding of what heat is and how it is different from temperature has not always been so clear. These measure of the energy of these collisions is temperature. So, temperature can result from heat being introduced into an object; that is, heat is energy introduced into a system and one affect heat can have is to increase the
Temperature is the average kinetic energy of particles of a  substance. Thermal Energy or heat is the total amount of kinetic  energy.    A bucket of water at 50C con … tains more heat compared to a cup of  water at 100C, as one notices water in cup has more temperature. These measure of the energy of these collisions is temperature. So, temperature can result from heat being introduced into an object; that is, heat is energy introduced into a system and one affect heat can have is to increase th
A whole-house fan usually draws between 200 and 700 watts — about 10% to 15% of the power drawn by a central air conditioner (2,000 to 5,000 watts). If evenings are cool enough, it’s fairly easy to lower the temperature of your home and your furniture with a whole-house fan — sometimes in less than an hour. 