6. Personal data must be processed in accordance with the rights of data subjects. Ensure any requests from individuals for a copy of their data are responded to promptly and the data is provided within 40 days. Establish whether or not you require a fee (maximum £10) to be paid – and how it should be paid.
Websites, data protection and children. posted by Alasdair Taylor on Sat, 28/06/2008 - 11:07. The first principle of data protection law is that personal data must be processed fairly and lawfully, and that one or more specified conditions must be met.
The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (COPPA) applies to commercial websites that are directed at children under 13 or, even if not so directed, knowingly collect information from children under the age of 13.
To meet the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998, schools and other service providers need to issue a privacy notice to staff, children and their families summarising the information collected about them, why it is held, and the third parties to whom it may be passed on.
The Data Protection Act (DPA) protects the privacy and integrity of data held on individuals by businesses and other organisations. You may need to review your policies, practices and procedures if you store personal information on clients, employees or other individuals.
The Data Protection Act 1998 is designed to help protect personal data. It sets out rules and conditions which Gloucestershire County Council must follow when collecting and using this data. It aims to ensure that people know where their data is held, what it is used for and who it is shared with.
Normally, you can ask the people who provide services to let you see the information they keep about you. You can also ask to see your information using your rights under the Data Protection Act 1998. This is known as a Subject Access Request. If you are 12 or older, you can make a Subject Access Request yourself, but if you are under 12 your parent or carer must do this for you.
Child protection in the UK. How the systems and laws of the UK and its 4 nations work to keep children safe from abuse and harm. The UK’s 4 nations – England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales – have their own child protection system and laws to help protect children from abuse and neglect.