2. If you want your sunglasses to protect you from these risks, look for pairs that block at least 99% of UVB rays and at least 95% of UVA rays. Also look for the amount of cover the sunglasses provide
2. Use the shape of your face to help you pick your sunglasses shape. The following face shape matched to sunglasses style is recommended: 1  Oval face: The oval type usually has the perfect face shape, and can wear any style of glasses. 2  Avoid frames that are either too thick or too thin. If you want your sunglasses to protect you from these risks, look for pairs that block at least 99% of UVB rays and at least 95% of UVA rays. Also look for the amount of cover the sunglasses provide
Glasses from dozens of popular brands are available, and you can narrow your options by searching for regular glasses or sunglasses by type, colors, style and price. A price slider goes from zero to $400+. You can compare up to four frames at a time in a single view, and tap on one of those views for a closer look. But these aren't stationary images. You can swipe to move the 3D rendering of your head from side to side to see how the glasses look from each perspective. On the Lennon-style glasses ($100 on up), which frankly didn't look good on me, you change the power of the lenses by first rolling the dial at each edge of the frame all the way forward. You then cover your right eye, look at an object, and turn the left dial backwards until the object comes into focus.
Use the shape of your face to help you pick your sunglasses shape. The following face shape matched to sunglasses style is recommended: 1  Oval face: The oval type usually has the perfect face shape, and can wear any style of glasses. If you want your sunglasses to protect you from these risks, look for pairs that block at least 99% of UVB rays and at least 95% of UVA rays. Also look for the amount of cover the sunglasses provide
Follow the easy-to-use instructions to see how the frames look on your face. You can use your webcam, upload an image from your computer. You can also use one of our models. Once you have chosen your image. 
Our Try On View is a great way to preview the silhouette of any frame models you are interested trying. With this tool, you can upload your image and virtually try on glasses to see how they will look on your face. You can utilize the Try On View by clicking on the Try On View tab on the product and frame pages.
The most important part of buying sunglasses is knowing your face shape (you can find yours out by reading my instructions here). Different frames suit different faces. Here’s what works: Oval face: Just like with choosing a haircut, an oval face is the (ahem) “ideal”, meaning that most shapes will suit you. You can also try gently curved square frames. You will look best if the frames aren’t any wider than your cheekbones. Square face: You can reduce the squareness of your face by wearing frames that are soft & curvy while having a strong shape. Cat’s-eye frames are ideal, as are ovals & round shapes.
Some frame shapes can make the curves and angles of your face look disproportionate, depending on how your face is shaped. When shopping for new frames, start by trying on shapes that are more likely to flatter your face. 1. Look for oval or round frames if you have a square, angular face. Look for a pair with center-set temples or those that connect at the top of the frame. 1  Avoid geometric, square frames that may accentuate the sharp angles of your face.
You try on several pairs of eyeglasses to see how the frames look on you from multiple angles. Only you're not actually wearing physical glasses but rather examining a lifelike 3D model of your own head on the iPad. Or you are indeed wearing physical glasses. On the Lennon-style glasses ($100 on up), which frankly didn't look good on me, you change the power of the lenses by first rolling the dial at each edge of the frame all the way forward. You then cover your right eye, look at an object, and turn the left dial backwards until the object comes into focus.