Tweet. Comments (15). Losing a set of keys, moving into a new home, going through a divorce or simply realizing that too many copies of your house keys are in circulation can prompt the need to change the entry locks on your home. You can have the lock cylinders reset to use a new key, or you can replace all the locks. 1 (The cost per lock will depend on the type of lock and the prevailing rates in your area.) For a typical home with four locks it can run anywhere from $60-$200, and costs can be even higher if the work is done off-hours, in the evening or on a weekend.
When you rekey a lock, you change the lock so that it can be operated by another key. This is done by altering the tumbler, changing the water configuration, or forcing a new key exchange. After the lock has been rekeyed, the new key can operate the lock and the old key is invalidated. To have your locks changed or rekeyed, simply call a reliable, trustworthy locksmith. Over half of new homeowners don’t change or rekey their locks, but it’s hard to understand why. Especially after moving into a new home, you want to feel safe and secure when you lay down your head at night. If you want to feel confident in your new home’s security, you have two options: 1  You can change your locks. 2  You can rekey your locks
When you insert the key from the CHANGE-A-LOCK® rekey kit into the 6-pin key cylinder, and using the special instructional sheet to replace the bottom pins, the last hole after the tip of the key is the 6th. pin hole position. Therefore, the 6th. pin hole position is not used when rekeying. 
1 Replacing locks: With the ease of using a Phillips screwdriver, you can replace your old locks in just 10 minutes each. 2  New locks: Adding locks to new doors is simple for the average do-it-yourselfer. 3  You will need to drill holes in your door for the locks and backset latches before you install the locks. 1 New locks: Adding locks to new doors is simple for the average do-it-yourselfer. 2  You will need to drill holes in your door for the locks and backset latches before you install the locks. 3  The entire process should take the average person 30 minutes.
1 For a home with four locks (both a doorknob and a deadbolt lock on the front and back entry doors) it will run $20-$60. 2  Call ahead (before removing the cylinders) to be sure someone will be available that day to re-key your locks, and that they will re-key your particular brand and model of lock. 1 (The cost per lock will depend on the type of lock and the prevailing rates in your area.) For a typical home with four locks it can run anywhere from $60-$200, and costs can be even higher if the work is done off-hours, in the evening or on a weekend.
How to Rekey a Door Lock. Change your own locks by removing the lock cylinder and changing the pins. Print. Share: Learn to rekey your entry and deadbolt locks like a pro, and at a fraction of the cost, using a rekeying kit. Instead of calling a locksmith when a key is lost, rekey the door lock yourself and save.
When you move into a new home, it is a good idea to change the locks on your doors. You don’t need to call a locksmith since this is a quick and easy procedure. Measure the lock from the latch of the door to the middle of the doorknob. The majority of the locks are either 2 3/8 inches (6 cm) or 2 3/4 inches (6.5 cm). Many locks today will be adjustable to fit either size, but you will want to make sure. 1  3 Edit step.