Swarovski Zirconia. Swarovski Zirconia is truly above the rest-the exact symmetry and proportions of the cuts make sure every single piece comes with maximized brilliance. Each stone has a specially developed microscopic SWAROVSKI ZIRCONIA laser-engraved quality seal, which is completely invisible to the naked eye.
Diamonds have a specific gravity of between 3.5 – 3.53 which is the density of the material in comparison to the same amount of water and is useful for gem identification by gem buyers and gemologists. They are extremely hard and until recently were regarded as the worlds hardest natural material with a rating of 10 on the Mohs hardness scale. Although diamonds are extremely expensive their price is very much governed by what’s known as the four Cs, carat, cut, colour, and clarity.
One of the ideal Swarovski treasures is the Swarovski Zirconia. Swarovski crystals which are specifically generated to reproduce the luster, glimmer, and glimmer of precious stones, are generated at a reduced price compared to that of Cubic Zirconia. 
Swarovski crystals are man-made gems manufactured in Austria. In 1892, Daniel Swarovski invented a machine for making precision-cut, beautiful, high quality lead glass crystals using quartz, sand, and minerals. The exact proportions of these raw materials has remained a company secret. 
Swarovski AG (/swɒrˈɒfski/ sworr-OFF-skee, German pronunciation [svaˈʀɔfski]) is an Austrian producer of luxury cut lead glass, headquartered in Wattens, Austria. The Swarovski Crystal range includes crystal glass sculptures and miniatures, jewelry and couture, home decor, and chandeliers. All sculptures are marked with a logo. The original Swarovski logo was an edelweiss flower, which was replaced by an S.A.L. logo, which was finally replaced with the current swan logo in 1988.
Cubic zirconia (CZ) is the cubic crystalline form of zirconium dioxide (ZrO 2). The synthesized material is hard, optically flawless and usually colorless, but may be made in a variety of different colors. 
Zirconium dioxide (ZrO 2), sometimes known as zirconia (not to be confused with zircon), is a white crystalline oxide of zirconium. Its most naturally occurring form, with a monoclinic crystalline structure, is the mineral baddeleyite. 
Moissanite does have inclusions like a diamond and it may also have a greenish tinge to its colour. Swarovski Crystal. Swarovski Crystal isn’t a gemstone or even a crystal it’s a form of glass that’s made at high temperatures by melting silicon oxide powders with lead to form what is known as lead crystal. They are extremely hard and until recently were regarded as the worlds hardest natural material with a rating of 10 on the Mohs hardness scale. Although diamonds are extremely expensive their price is very much governed by what’s known as the four Cs, carat, cut, colour, and clarity.
a new dimension of brilliance. Swarovski Zirconia is truly above the rest-the exact symmetry and proportions of the cuts make sure every single piece comes with maximized brilliance. Each stone has a specially developed microscopic SWAROVSKI ZIRCONIA laser-engraved quality seal, which is completely invisible to the naked eye.
Best Answer: Cubic Zirconia is a lab created stone - Swarovski crystals are not only higher quality, they are more valuable. If you are going for the look of a diamond, Cubic Zirconia is a better diamond simulate. Swarovski crystal has too many facets and too much fire to pass for a diamond. However, nothing is better than the original-Diamond jewelry is affordable when you know where to look. But if you are definitiely set on either a piece of Swarovski or something Cubic Zirconia-Swarovski has a better name and are usually more beautiful-but Cubic Zirconia is a better simulate.