Brucellosis is an infectious disease caused by bacteria called Brucella (bru-CELL-a). Many different animal species and humans can become ill. Brucellosis is primarily a reproductive disease in animals, but it can also cause reoccurring fevers, arthritis or udder infection (mastitis). 
1 Brucellosis in goats is similar to the disease in cattle. 2  In humans it causes a serious illness called Malta fever. 3  People are usually infected through goat milk and cheese. 4  There is a vaccine to prevent the disease, and goats should be vaccinated at about 4 months of age. 1 People are usually infected through goat milk and cheese. 2  There is a vaccine to prevent the disease, and goats should be vaccinated at about 4 months of age. 3  Do not vaccinate pregnant animals. 4  Brucellosis in sheep is usually seen as an inflammation of the testicles of rams that can result in permanent infertility.
Brucellosis is a potentially serious illness that may affect one part or several different parts of the body. It is caused by several different bacteria from the Brucella family. Brucella bacteria are found naturally in some animals including sheep, goats, cattle, deer, elk, pigs, and dogs. Brucellosis disease in humans is not common in the United States or in California, though it does occur.
every 3 days for 3 weeks), regimens D and E (LA-OTC 28 mg/kg i.m. every 3 days for 6 weeks, with ST 20 mg/kg i.m. every 3 days for 3 weeks). However, regimen C (LA-OTC 20 mg/kg i.m. every 3 days for 6 weeks, with ST 20 mg/kg i.m. every 3 days for 3 weeks) eliminated Brucella in only 75 of 80 (94%) sheep and goats. Regimen F (LA-OTC 25 mg/kg i.m. every 2 days for 4 weeks, combined with ST 20 mg/kg i.m. every 2 days for 2 weeks) was the most practical, effective and least expensive regimen for eliminating Brucella in the 80 treated
People can get the disease when they are in contact with infected animals or animal products contaminated with the bacteria. Animals that are most commonly infected include sheep, cattle, goats, pigs, and dogs, among others. 
Brucellosis in other species. 1  Brucellosis in goats is similar to the disease in cattle. 2  Brucellosis in sheep is usually seen as an inflammation of the testicles of rams that can result in permanent infertility. 3  Pig and dog brucellosis have not occurred in South Africa. 1 People are usually infected through goat milk and cheese. 2  There is a vaccine to prevent the disease, and goats should be vaccinated at about 4 months of age. 3  Do not vaccinate pregnant animals. 4
In this article. Brucellosis is an infectious disease caused by a type of bacteria called Brucella. The bacteria can spread from animals to humans. There are several different strains of Brucella bacteria. Some types are seen in cows. Others occur in dogs, pigs, sheep, goats, and camels. Recently, scientists have seen new strains in the red fox and certain marine animals, including seals. Brucella in animals cannot be cured.
Brucellosis is a zoonotic infection caused by the bacterial genus Brucella. The bacteria are transmitted from animals to humans by ingestion through infected food products, direct contact with an infected animal, or inhalation of aerosols. Of the 4 Brucella species known to cause disease in humans (B abortus, B melitensis, B canis, B suis), B melitensis is thought to be the most virulent and causes the most severe and acute cases of brucellosis; it is also the most prevalent worldwide.
Brucellosis is a disease caused by Brucella bacteria. It is a zoonosis, meaning that it is primarily an infection of animals but can be transmitted to man. Different species of Brucella bacteria mostly infect domestic livestock: cattle (B. abortus) , sheep and goats (B. melitensis) and pigs (B. suis). 
Cause Diagnosis Treatment and Control Other Links. Brucellosis is a family of infectious and contagious gram negative coccobacilli (Brucella abortus, melitensis, ovis ,suis, canis) that causes disease in animals and humans. It is one of approximately 80 diseases that can be transmitted from animal to humans (zoonoses). The disease primarily effects cattle and bison although it has been reported in sheep, goats, pigs, horses, dogs (and wild canids), wild ungulates (elk, deer, caribou and reindeer) and humans.