There are two forms of multinodular goiter: 1) nontoxic MNGNontoxic MNG-multinodular goiter that produces normal levels of thyroid hormone and 2) toxic MNG. If the goiter makes normal amounts of thyroid hormone, it is known as a nontoxic MNG. The gland can be generally enlarged or have multiple growths (nodules) leading to enlargement of the whole thyroid gland. The latter is termed multinodular goiter (MNGMNG-Multinodular goiter; enlarged thyroid that contains multiple nodules).
Multinodular Goiter. A goiter simply means an enlarged thyroid. A goiter can either be a simple goiter where the whole thyroid is bigger than normal or a multinodular goiter where there are multiple nodules. Multinodular goiters can be either a toxic multinodular goiter (i.e. makes too much thyroid hormone and causes hyperthyroidism. See Hyperthyroidism » .) or non-toxic (i.e. does not make too much thyroid hormone). It is not known what causes multinodular goiters in most cases, but iodine deficiency (i.e. too little iodine in the diet) and certain genetic factors have been shown to lead to multinodular goiters.
Toxic multinodular goiter (also known as toxic nodular goiter, toxic nodular struma, or Plummer's disease) is a multinodular goiter associated with a hyperthyroidism. Toxic multinodular goiter can be treated with antithyroid medications such as propylthiouracil or methimazole, radioactive iodine, or with surgery. Another treatment option is injection of ethanol into the nodules.
Overview. GoiterGoiter-enlarged thyroid is an enlargement of the thyroid gland. The gland can be generally enlarged or have multiple growths (nodules) leading to enlargement of the whole thyroid gland. The latter is termed multinodular goiter (MNGMNG-Multinodular goiter; enlarged thyroid that contains multiple nodules).
(Decreased iodine leads to decreased thyroid hormone.) However, iodine deficiency can cause goitre (thyroid enlargement); within a goitre, nodules can develop. Risk factors for toxic multinodular goiter include individuals over 60 years of age and being female. Toxic multinodular goiter can be treated with antithyroid medications such as propylthiouracil or methimazole, radioactive iodine, or with surgery. Another treatment option is injection of ethanol into the nodules.
Toxic multinodular goiter: A condition in which the thyroid gland contains multiple lumps (nodules) that are overactive and that produce excess thyroid hormones. Also known as Parry disease and Plummer disease. 
Click here for Frequently Asked Questions on a Toxic Multinodular Goiter. A multinodular goiter is simply a thyroid gland that is usually enlarged and contains multiple thyroid nodules. The nodules can be very small, often only a few millimeters in size, or the nodules can be larger, perhaps several cm each.
Background. A toxic nodular goiter (TNG) is a thyroid gland that contains autonomously functioning thyroid nodules, with resulting hyperthyroidism. TNG, or Plummer's disease, was first described by Henry Plummer in 1913. TNG is the second most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the Western world, after Graves disease. 