EQUINE FOUNDER. The term Founder Laminitis is often used to describe a painful equine disease which affects the horse's feet. The two words Laminitis and Founder are commonly linked. Founder literally mean sinking of the sole of the foot. This results in inflammation and weakening of the laminae and in some cases, the coffin bone can rotate within the foot, sink (founder) downwards and even penetrate the sole of the foot. The condition Equine Founder is a serious condition that needs careful treatment.
Laminitis is a disease that affects the feet of hooved animals (ungulates) and it is found mostly in horses and cattle. Radiograph of a horse hoof showing rotation of the coffin bone and evidence of sinking, a condition often associated with laminitis. The annotation P2 stands for the middle phalanx, or pastern bone, and P3 denotes the distal phalanx, or coffin bone.
The Broken Hammock. When a horse develops founder, the hammock (laminae) begins to weaken and fray. When the founder is severe, the hammock (laminae) breaks, dumping the man (toe bone) onto the ground. In severe founder, the toe bone comes through the sole on the bottom of the hoof
Noun. 1. laminitis-inflammation of the laminated tissue that attaches the hoof to the foot of a horse. founder. inflammation, redness, rubor-a response of body tissues to injury or irritation; characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat. 1  Facebook. 
Laminitis is a disease that causes lameness in horses. It was once associated primarily with overweight ponies, but it can affect any age or size of horse. 1  With this disease, the laminae weaken, which attach the pedal bone to the inside of the hoof. 2  The horses pedal bone detaches from the inside of the hoof. 1 The horses pedal bone detaches from the inside of the hoof. 2  Therefore, the pedal bone can turn, and sometimes, it even pushes through the sole. 3  When it pushes through the sole, it's called founder.. 4  This bond is composed of a non-living layer and a sensitive living layer, much like nails and the nail beds.
Horse Founder. 1. The term “Founder” is a much more than a common term for the painful condition in the horse’s foot. The term has been around for hundreds of years and its origin comes from a naval term. A ship “foundered” on the rocks or sand was unable to move, much like a foundered horse was unable to walk. When the coffin bone would actually “sink” and go through the sole, the naval-termed horse founder was set even more. The term “Laminitis” is seen in veterinary books in only the last 100 years – doctors were able to identify the tissue damaged in the horse’s feet and applied a name to the tissue – Laminae.
Severe cases with outwardly visible clinical signs are known by the colloquial term founder, and progression of the disease may lead to perforation of the coffin bone through the sole of the hoof, requiring aggressive treatment or euthanasia. Radiograph of a horse hoof showing rotation of the coffin bone and evidence of sinking, a condition often associated with laminitis. The annotation P2 stands for the middle phalanx, or pastern bone, and P3 denotes the distal phalanx, or coffin bone.
For a long time acute founder was thought to be a disease caused by inflammation and was dubbed laminitis (-itis means inflamed). It is easy to see why: Heat, swelling and pain were present and these are all signs of inflammation. On closer study, several problems with the inflammation idea surfaced. When a horse develops founder, the hammock (laminae) begins to weaken and fray. When the founder is severe, the hammock (laminae) breaks, dumping the man (toe bone) onto the ground.
Stem-cell therapy is the use of stem cells to treat or prevent a disease or condition. Bone marrow transplant is the most widely used stem-cell therapy, but some therapies derived from umbilical cord blood are also in use. Another stem-cell therapy called Prochymal, was conditionally approved in Canada in 2012 for the management of acute graft-vs-host disease in children who are unresponsive to steroids. It is an allogenic stem therapy based on mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from the bone marrow of adult donors.