In summary, the adrenal glands disorders consist of: adrenal insufficiency (deficiency in secretion, especially cortisol), adrenal hormone overproduction mainly caused by adrenal tumors (pheochromocytoma, aldosteronoma, androgen-producing tumors) and other adrenal tumors without hormone overproduction. 
Cushing’s Syndrome is a disease caused by an excess of cortisol production or by excessive use of cortisol or other similar steroid (glucocorticoid) hormones. Cortisol is a normal hormone produced in the outer portion, or cortex, of the adrenal glands, located above each kidney. All of these effects together are called Cushing’s Syndrome. Spontaneous overproduction of cortisol in the adrenals is divided into two groups – those due to an excess of ACTH and those that are independent of ACTH.
Confidence votes 3.6K. Cortisol overproduction can also be caused by many different types of tumors resulting in abnormalities in the function or regulation of the adrenal or pituitary glands. 1 However, if your body relies on a stress hormone like cortisol too much…. 2  Iatrogenic Cushing's Syndrome: Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment Iatrogenic Cushing's syndrome refers to a hormonal disorder that occurs due to the exposure of high cortisol levels. 3  Cortisol is a hormone whose production occurs in the adre….
Overview. A high level of cortisol in the body is a condition called hypercortisolism, or Cushing’s syndrome. Excessive use of cortisol or corticosteroid medication or the body’s overproduction of cortisol causes hypercortisolism. Symptoms occur when the cortisol levels are abnormally high for an extended period of time. As cortisol is an important hormone for the body’s energy utilization and storage, there are numerous symptoms that can be attributed to this disease
Cushing's syndrome is the result of excessive corticosteroids in the body. The main cause is overproduction of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) in the pituitary gland. ACTH causes the adrenal glands to produce corticosteroids, so too much of ACTH means too much of corticosteroids. 
This condition, called Cushing's syndrome could be due to either intrinsic overproduction of cortisol by the adrenal gland or overstimulation of the adrenal gland (leading to increased release of cortisol) by another hormone called ACTH, which is released by the pituitary gland. 
CBN.com  Did you know that the overproduction of cortisol, triggered by your body’s stress response, can lead to adrenal burnout, memory loss, and aging? Dr. Sears explains your body’s physiological responses to prolonged stress and how you can reduce your levels of cortisol naturally for optimal health. Cortisol is produced by your body in response to long-term stress. When you are under any type of stress--whether physical or emotional--your body pumps out cortisol in an attempt to shut off the production of pro-inflammatory eicosanoids. Stress is defined as disruption to your body’s normal equilibrium.
The adrenal gland has a center gland (medulla) that produces adrenaline and an outer gland (the cortex) that produces several hormones, such as cortisol an aldosterone. This page is about cortisol overproduction by the adrenal cortex. Causes of Cushing's Syndrome. It is now known that these symptoms characterize Cushing's syndrome, which is the result of excess production of cortisol by the adrenal glands. Cortisol is a powerful steroid hormone, and excess cortisol has detrimental effects on many cells throughout the body.
1 Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 2  Overproduction of ACTH. 3  This may be caused by an overactive pituitary gland, or sometimes by a tumor in the lung. 4  In response, the adrenal glands release too much cortisol (one form of Cushing's syndrome). 1 A problem with the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. 2  A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 3  Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 4