1 Rarely, fistulas occur externally to the skin or internally to another part of the biliary tree, to the pleural cavity or bronchial tree, or to the hepatic artery or portal vein or other vascular structures.
In most patients with nonparasitic BBF, obstruction of the bile ducts is usually an associated feature. 11 Biliary-bronchial fistulas (BBFs) after hepatic resection are rare; as a result, very few cases have been reported in literature.
• Biliary-bronchial fistula is an extremely unusual complication of thoracoabdominal trauma or suppurative hepatobiliary disease. We treated a patient with a biliary-bronchial fistula that developed after right hepatectomy for an infected traumatic intrahepatic hematoma. The diagnosis of biliary-bronchial fistula was confirmed by percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography.
A bronchobiliary fistula (BBF) is a pathological communication between the hepatic bile ducts and the pulmonary bronchial tree. The etiology is most often secondary to postsurgical complications or trauma and patients present with biliptysis (bile in the sputum) (1 – 3).
INTRODUCTION Biliary-Bronchial Fistula (BBF) is defined as a passageway between the biliary system and bronchial tree with presence of bile in the bronchus and the sputum (bilioptysis). Biliary-bronchial fistulas are rare but serios complications of hepatic resection that can present from days to years after operation.
1 The incidence of such fistulas is unknown, but it is low. 2  Two thirds of patients with biliary-enteric fistulas have symptoms for 2 years or more. 3  Ninety percent of patients with biliary-enteric fistulas have had a history of biliary tract disease for an average of 12 years (range, 1 to 18 years).
Adnan Al-Suleihat 1. SUMMARY. Biliary-Bronchial Fistula (BBF) is a rare but serious complication of hepatic resection. We present a 31-year-old woman with a biliary-bronchial fistula due to common bile duct stricture that developed three years after right hepatectomy for metastatic colonic carcinoma.