Call your baby's doctor if: 1  Your baby's been vomiting for more than 24 hours. 2  He shows signs of becoming dehydrated. 3  The vomit contains blood. 4  He has violent, persistent vomiting within half an hour of eating. 5  You notice a yellowing of your baby's skin or the whites of his eyes, which is a sign of jaundice. 1 A little blood in the vomit is usually nothing to worry about, as the force of vomiting can cause tiny tears in the blood vessels lining the esophagus. 2  Your baby's vomit may also be tinged with red if he's swallowed blood from a cut in his mouth or a nosebleed within the last six hours.
Some children can fel quite sick with chickenpox and may vomit. You may find this page helpful Chickenpox-Symptoms-NHS Choices If he is vomiting a lot, or has diarrhoea, and is not drinking much or having we nappies, it would be a good idea to contact your GP or NHS Direct on 0845 46 47 for more advice. I hope he gets well soon Rachel. 25-03-11, 11:58 #3. You may have already had bloods taken for chickenpox immunity, but it is definitely a good idea to check-hopefully you have had it already. Good luck with the rest of your pregnancy and hope your little one is better
Chickenpox is a common infection caused by the varicella zoster virus. It’s most commonly seen in children under 10, but you can catch it at any age. Once you have had chickenpox, you’re very unlikely to catch it again. For most people, chickenpox usually goes away after a week or so. Once your symptoms have cleared up, the virus stays dormant in your body for the rest of your life. At any time later in life, the virus can be reactivated. This causes shingles, which is a related disease caused by the same varicella zoster virus. 
An Introduction to the Symptoms of Chickenpox. Symptoms of chickenpox can begin with one to two days of low-grade fever and tiredness. These early symptoms do not always occur before the chickenpox rash develops. Early chickenpox symptoms are followed by itchy blisters that first appear on the trunk, face, and scalp. 
Spitting up in babies: What's normal, what's not. Spitting up is a rite of passage for many babies. Here's what's behind spitting up — and when it might signal a more serious problem. You've just fed your baby breast milk or formula only to watch him or her spit up what seems like all of it. Normal spitting up doesn't interfere with a baby's well-being. As long as your baby seems comfortable and is eating well and gaining weight, there's little cause for concern. If your baby is gaining weight, then he or she isn't being harmed by the calories lost through spitting up.
Why Spit-Up Happens. After your baby swallows milk, it glides past the back of his throat and goes down a muscular tube, called the esophagus, to the stomach. There is a ring of muscles connecting the esophagus and stomach. It opens to let the milk go into the stomach, and then it closes back up. 
During your baby's first few months, vomiting is probably caused by mild feeding problems, such as his tummy being too full. After the first few months, a sudden onset of vomiting is more likely to be caused by a tummy infection, such as gastroenteritis. This type of infection is often accompanied by diarrhoea. You can tell when your baby is vomiting, rather than just bringing up small quantities of milk (possetting), because there will be a lot more coming out. Vomiting can be frightening for your baby, so he's likely to cry. Everything from car sickness to indigestion can cause your baby to be sick.
Most children will get chickenpox when they are young and it is usually a mild illness. Once your baby has caught the virus, it can take between 10 days and 21 days for symptoms to show. Your baby will then be infectious from about two days before the rash appears until all the spots have dried up. 
Share. It's common for babies to vomit often in the early weeks as they adjust to feeding and as their bodies develop. You can tell when your baby is vomiting, rather than just bringing up small quantities of milk (possetting), because there will be a lot more coming out. Vomiting can be frightening for your baby, so he's likely to cry. Everything from car sickness to indigestion can cause your baby to be sick. Even a prolonged bout of crying or coughing can trigger this reflex. So you may see quite a lot of vomiting in your baby's first few years. An attack of vomiting will generally subside six hours to 24 hours after it starts
Treatment is usually to relieve the symptoms. It is easily spread by either having direct contact with (ie touching) the person who has chickenpox, or from fluid droplets in the air when they cough. Fever and a rash are the most common signs of chickenpox. A person with chickenpox is infectious to others from one to two days before the rash first appears until the last blisters have dried up. Children and adults of any age can get chickenpox but it is more common in children. 