Conversely, when the Moon is heading southwards, the time of moonrise can change by well over an hour from one day to the next. But we can still predict how high the Moon will cross the sky, how long it will spend above the horizon, and where it will rise and set, by comparing its behaviour with that of the Sun. 
At the new Moon phase, the Moon is so close to the Sun in the sky that none of the side facing Earth is illuminated (position 1 in illustration). In other words, the Moon is between Earth and Sun. At first quarter, the half-lit Moon is highest in the sky at sunset, then sets about six hours later (3). At full Moon, the Moon is behind Earth in space with respect to the Sun. As the Sun sets, the Moon rises with the side that faces Earth fully exposed to sunlight (5).
At new moon, the moon and the sun are on the same side of Earth. We see the part of the moon that is in shadow, so the moon is dark. Then the moon moves around in its orbit. At first quarter, it has gone one-fourth of the way around Earth. Now we can see part of the moon that is sunlit, but part still in shadow. 
Waxing Crescent Moon. The moon changes in appearance and location in the sky everyday, which is why we refer to the moon by its phases: new moon, new crescent moon, 1st quarter moon, waxing gibbous, full moon, waning gibbous, 3rd quarter, and old crescent. See how the phases change over the course of the moon’s 29.53-day cycle. Step outside! Keep track of the moon in your night sky, and chart the changes yourself. See our tips on how to chart the moon in the sky and explore the phases of the moon over the course of its 29.53-day cycle.
In other words, the round globe of the moon has a day side and a night side. From our earthly vantage point, as the moon orbits around Earth, we see varying fractions of its day and night sides. These are the changing phases of the moon. As the moon orbits Earth, it changes phase in an orderly way. Follow these links to understand the various phases of the moon.
And remember that the moon’s orbital motion is toward the east. Each day, as the moon moves another 12 degrees toward the east on the sky’s dome, Earth has to rotate a little longer to bring you around to where the moon is in space. Thus the moon rises, on average, about 50 minutes later each day. From our earthly vantage point, as the moon orbits around Earth, we see varying fractions of its day and night sides. These are the changing phases of the moon. As the moon orbits Earth, it changes phase in an orderly way. Follow these links to understand the various
The apparent motion of the Moon from hour to hour; each hour it moves about one diameter to the East. The Moon moves around the Earth in an approximately circular orbit, going once around us in approximately 27.3 days, or one sidereal period of revolution. As it does this its position changes, relative to the stars. 
Why does our Moon's shape change? Our Moon's shape doesn't really change it only appears that way! The amount of Moon that we see as we look from Earth changes in a cycle that repeats about once a month (29.5 days). The relative positions of our Sun, Earth, and Moon, cause these changes.
After a week, the moon is 90 degrees away from the sun in the sky and is half illuminated, what we call first quarter because it is about a quarter of the way around the Earth. A week after this, the moon is 180 degrees away from the sun, so that sun, Earth and moon form a line. Fiction! This is probably the most commonly held misconception in all astronomy. Here's how the moon's phases really come about: The moon is a sphere that travels once around the Earth every 29.5 days. As it does so, it is illuminated from varying angles by the sun.