DuPont™ Krytox ® oils and greases are high-performance perfluorinated lubricants used for a variety of applications. Used where temperatures commonly exceed 250°F or fall below 0°F.
Krytox is a trademarked name of a family of high-performance synthetic lubricants (oils and greases) with a variety of applications. Invented by researchers at DuPont, it is a colourless polymer containing ether functionality.
What is the recommended temperature range for use of Krytox®? Krytox ® greases and Krytox ® oils can be used from temperatures of -95° C (-139°F) up to 343°C (650°F) or higher with relubrication, depending on the grade.
What is the recommended temperature range for use of Krytox®? Krytox® greases and Krytox® oils can be used from temperatures of -95° C (-139°F) up to 343°C (650°F) or higher with relubrication, depending on the grade.
Where can Krytox™ lubricants be used? Krytox™ lubricants can be used in applications where non-flammability, oxygen compatibility, materials compatibility, high-temperature stability, and resistance to aggressive chemicals are requirements.
Krytox Oils and Greases offer a unique combination of properties that provide exceptional, yet cost-effective solutions to your most difficult problems. Compared to other lubricants, only Krytox oils and greases combine high-temperature performance, non-flammability, and chemical inertness under a variety of conditions.
What are the different grades of Krytox™ GPL lubricants and their typical applications? 1  The Krytox™ GPL 10X oil /20X grease series contains no additives and can be used on components that come in contact with most chemicals typically used in industry. 2  applications include valves or bearings, seal barrier fluids, 3  instruments, and oxygen systems. 4  The
Before adding Krytox™ grease to a bearing, the bearing should be cleaned of all existing greases, oils, or preservative oils used during storage. If hydrocarbon oils are left in a bearing, the oils can form carbon deposits at high temperatures, which may accelerate bearing failure.
Can Krytox® lubricants be used in a clean room environment? Yes. There is a complete range of standard (1500 series) and extreme (1600 series) vacuum pump oils are available as well as vacuum rated greases such as 240 AB, 240 AC, 240 AD and LVP.