Magma rises from the asthenosphere to the surface of the Earth.  After it reaches temperature upward to 1000 degrees Fahrenheit, the  magma starts to rise. Gases also aid in … pushing the magma toward  the surface, along with the tremendous pressure from the depth at  which it originates. There is a convection current caused by radioactivity in the inner core which causes the plates to move. Therefore the … constructive plates move apart which means magma can rise up. It'll then solidify and this is what makes volcanoes.
Lava is the extrusive equivalent of magma. Magma (from Greek μάγμα, thick unguent) is a mixture of molten or semi-molten rock, volatiles and solids that is found beneath the surface of the Earth, and is expected to exist on other terrestrial planets. Besides molten rock, magma may also contain suspended crystals, dissolved gas and sometimes gas bubbles. Magma also contains gases, which expand as the magma rises. Magma that is high in silica resists flowing, so expanding gases are trapped in it. Pressure builds up until the gases blast out in a violent, dangerous explosion.
The magma is in the mantle, the layer under the crust. There is a convection current caused by radioactivity in the inner core which causes the plates to move. Therefore the … constructive plates move apart which means magma can rise up. It'll then solidify and this is what makes volcanoes. Hence CONSTRUCTive
Magma forms from partial melting of mantle rocks. As the rocks move upward (or have water added to them), they start to melt a little bit. These little blebs of melt migrate upward and coalesce into larger volumes that continue to move upward. They may collect in a magma chamber or they may just come straight up. As they rise, gas molecules in the magma come out of solution and form bubbles and as the bubbles rise they expand
Except for the liquid outer core, most of the Earth takes the form of a rheid, a form of solid that can move or deform under pressure. Magma, as liquid, preferentially forms in high temperature, low pressure environments within several kilometers of the Earth's surface. Magma also contains gases, which expand as the magma rises. Magma that is high in silica resists flowing, so expanding gases are trapped in it. Pressure builds up until the gases blast out in a violent, dangerous explosion.
Convection probably starts as iron crystallizes on the surface of the inner core, about 5,000 kilometers beneath Earth's surface; lighter components like oxygen, sulfur, and silicon are excluded and rise toward the core-mantle boundary (CMB) 2,000 kilometers higher, where temperatures are a thousand degrees cooler. 
Magma. Magma is defined as molten rock found below the earth's surface. It's a Greek word meaning 'thick ointment.' Why a geologist in the year 1859, which was the first known geological use of the word, decided that magma and ointment were similar is unknown. Magma is molten rock found below the earth's surface. Magma on the earth's surface is called lava. Magma is primarily a very hot liquid, which is called the melt. The temperature at which a rock melts is affected by its composition.
Magma. Magma (from Greek μάγμα, thick unguent) is a mixture of molten or semi-molten rock, volatiles and solids that is found beneath the surface of the Earth, and is expected to exist on other terrestrial planets. Magma often collects in magma chambers that may feed a volcano or solidify underground to form an intrusion. Magma is capable of intrusion into adjacent rocks (forming igneous dikes and sills), extrusion onto the surface as lava, and explosive ejection as tephra to form pyroclastic rock.
Magma is molten rock found below the earth's surface. The temperature at which a rock melts is affected by its composition, pressure and water. Learn how magma forms and how it either feeds volcanoes or cools and crystallizes into igneous rock. Magma is molten rock found below the earth's surface. Magma on the earth's surface is called lava. Magma is primarily a very hot liquid, which is called the melt. The temperature at which a rock melts is affected by its composition.
Magma is a mixture of molten rock and gases below the surface of the Earth that may erupt from a volcano as lava. It may also cool and solidify below the surface. The rocks that form from magma are crystalline and fit into a general category called igneous rocks. Magma often collects in magma chambers that may feed a volcano or solidify underground to form an intrusion. Magma is capable of intrusion into adjacent rocks (forming igneous dikes and sills), extrusion onto the surface as lava, and explosive ejection as tephra to form pyroclastic rock.