It is recommended you eat lots of vegetable soups with just a touch of rice in them, cottage cheese or any other fresh cheese, pastas with water or milk, baked apples, beef soup and stews. If you suffer from gastritis you must eat slowly and after the meal you should lie in a bed with a hot compress on your stomach. You have to follow this kind of an acute gastric diet for 8 to 10 days after which you can slowly start eating what you usually eat.
-you should eat eggs only if they are an ingredient of a food. -regular milk is hard to digest when you suffer from gastritis so you should stick to other dairies like yogurt or cottage cheese. -young vegetables that are boiled good can be used to create all sorts of meals. -you have to avoid eating fresh fruits.
Good meats to eat when you have gastritis are baked or grilled chicken, turkey, and seafood. A serving of peanut butter is fine, but avoid nuts, tofu, and beans if they cause pain or gas. Alcohol is well-known as a stomach irritant and source of gastritis pain. Avoid beer, wine, and liquor while you are recovering.
Fruit contains essential vitamins, minerals, fiber, phytochemicals and antioxidants. If you have gastritis, you should consume two to four servings of fruit per day. Good choices include apples or apple juice, bananas, peaches, pears, applesauce and canned fruit, grapes, melon and kiwi. On average, servings are one medium piece of fresh fruit, 1/2 cup of canned fruit and 4ounces of fruit juice.
Most meat, poultry and fish are well tolerated if you have gastritis. The best choices are lean, tender meats, skinless poultry, seafood, fish, shellfish, tofu and soybeans. You should eat two to four 3-ounce servings of these types of foods each day.
Many things can cause gastritis. Most often the cause is infection with the bacteria Helicobacter pylori, which also causes stomach ulcers. An autoimmune disorder, a backup of bile into the stomach, or long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, can also
Most fruits are good to eat during gastritis, with a few exceptions. Avoid citrus fruits such as oranges, lemons, grapefruits, and limes. Also avoid juices made from these fruits. Eat mild fruits such as apples, pears, peaches, and berries.