Processing Time. Although direct deposit is an option no matter how you file a federal tax return, e-filing combined with direct deposit usually is the fastest option. For example, while it takes the IRS about six to eight weeks to process an error-free paper return, it can process an e-filed return in about 21 days. Errors and inaccuracies can extend the processing time. In most cases, you’ll receive a state tax return even sooner than a federal return if you e-file. If you e-file a state return and a federal return together, the IRS will forward the return to your state after it accepts your federal return. Otherwise, you can e-file a state return directly.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 1 Where’s My Refund? 2  shows “Refund Sent” – If the status in Where’s My Refund? 3  shows “Refund Sent”, the IRS has sent your tax refund to your financial institution for direct deposit. 4  It can take 1 to 5 days for your financial institution to deposit funds into your account.
If I electronically file my income tax return, how long will it  take to get my refund?   If you select the direct deposit option, you could receive your  refund in as few as five business days compared to several weeks if  filing on paper. Confidence votes 6.7K. If tax return was filed online completely and correctly and you have received your acknowledgment from the IRS that they have received and accepted your 1040 federal income tax return as you filed it from that date it could take about 10 days to 3 weeks for you direct deposit.
For example, you can request that we directly deposit into a checking, a savings and a retirement account by completing Form 8888 (PDF), Allocation of Refund (Including Savings Bond Purchases) and attaching it to your income tax return. This option is not available if you file Form 8379 (PDF), Injured Spouse Allocation. If you don't have Internet access, you may call the refund hotline at 800-829-1954. Where’s My Refund? includes information for the most recent tax year filed in the current year and does not include information about amended returns. To check the status of an amended return, use Where’s My Amended Return? on IRS.gov.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. 1 Where’s My Refund? 2  shows “Refund Sent” – If the status in Where’s My Refund? 3  shows “Refund Sent”, the IRS has sent your tax refund to your financial institution for direct deposit. 4  It can take 1 to 5 days for your financial institution to deposit funds into your account.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. 1 Where’s My Refund? 2  shows “Refund Sent” – If the status in Where’s My Refund? 3  shows “Refund Sent”, the IRS has sent your tax refund to your financial institution for direct deposit. 4  It can take 1 to 5 days for your financial institution to deposit funds into your account.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Here is the IRS direct deposit schedule, and as you can see, you are suppose to get your refund on March 2nd. http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p2043.pdf They usually update the IRS website on the Wed before you are scheduled to get a direct deposit. So, I would not think your status would change until 2/28 and then it will let you know your direct deposit date of 3/2.
The Best Time to File. Unlike with a paper return, there really is no best time to file a federal tax return electronically. Whether you file on Feb. 1 or on April 15, you can expect the IRS to issue a direct deposit refund within 21 days from the date the IRS accepts your return. “Accepted” means that your return has undergone electronic processing and found to be free from any errors. In most cases, you’ll receive a state tax return even sooner than a federal return if you e-file. If you e-file a state return and a federal return together, the IRS will forward the return to your state after it accepts your federal return. Otherwise, you can e-file a state return directly.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 1 Where’s My Refund? 2  shows “Refund Sent” – If the status in Where’s My Refund? 3  shows “Refund Sent”, the IRS has sent your tax refund to your financial institution for direct deposit. 4  It can take 1 to 5 days for your financial institution to deposit funds into your account.