The fiber laser is a variation on the standard solid-state laser, with the medium being a clad fiber rather than a rod, a slab, or a disk. Laser light is emitted by a dopant in the central core of the fiber, and the core structure can range from simple to fairly complex. The doped fiber has a cavity mirror on each end; in practice, these are fiber Bragg gratings, which can be fabricated within the fiber. There are no bulk optics on the end, unless the output beam goes into something other than a fiber. The fiber can be coiled, so the laser cavity can be many meters long if desired.
Fiber lasers. Fiber lasers are monolithic by design; producing single mode, high quality beams which are ideal for narrow kerf, precision cutting (typically less than 0.050 material thickness), narrow welds, narrow but deep penetration welds and remote welding of small precision parts. Disk lasers use a sealed modular design to produce high beam quality multimode laser light with BPP of 2 - 4 mm*mrad. Applications over 1kW usually require larger cutting kerfs to expel the molten metal, or slightly larger spots to cover larger weld seams.
In most cases, the gain medium is a fiber doped with rare earth ions such as erbium (Er 3+), neodymium (Nd 3+), ytterbium (Yb 3+), thulium (Tm 3+), or praseodymium (Pr 3+), and one or several fiber-coupled laser diodes are used for pumping. Therefore, most fiber lasers are diode-pumped lasers. There are some lasers which have a semiconductor optical amplifier (SOA) as the gain medium in a resonator made of fibers. Even though the actual laser process does not occur in a fiber, such fibers are sometimes called fiber lasers. They typically emit relatively small optical powers of a few milliwatts or even less.
The advantages of fiber lasers over other types include: 1  Light is already coupled into a flexible fiber: The fact that the light is already in a fiber allows it to be easily delivered to a movable focusing element. 2  This is important for laser cutting, welding, and folding of metals and polymers. Many high-power fiber lasers are based on double-clad fiber. The gain medium forms the core of the fiber, which is surrounded by two layers of cladding. The lasing mode propagates in the core, while a multimode pump beam propagates in the inner cladding layer. The outer cladding keeps this pump light confined.
Features. Think Green! Fiber Laser Energy Savings Calculator IPG's fiber lasers are ' greener ' than conventional lasers and non-laser tools: 1  Lower electrical consumption: Fiber lasers are up to 15x more efficient than conventional lasers. 2  Lower cooling: The unique design of fiber lasers requires less cooling. IPG Photonics is the world's leading provider of high power fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers that are revolutionizing performance and utility in a remarkable array of materials processing, micromachining, telecommunications, medical and other advanced applications. NEW IPG Corporate Video.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A fiber laser or fibre laser is a laser in which the active gain medium is an optical fiber doped with rare-earth elements such as erbium, ytterbium, neodymium, dysprosium, praseodymium, and thulium. They are related to doped fiber amplifiers, which provide light amplification without lasing. Many high-power fiber lasers are based on double-clad fiber. The gain medium forms the core of the fiber, which is surrounded by two layers of cladding. The lasing mode propagates in the core, while a multimode pump beam propagates in the inner cladding layer. The outer cladding keeps this pump light confined.
Fiber lasers are compact and rugged, don't go out of alignment, and easily dissipate thermal energy. They come in many forms, sharing technology with other type of lasers but providing their own unique advantages. The doped fiber has a cavity mirror on each end; in practice, these are fiber Bragg gratings, which can be fabricated within the fiber. There are no bulk optics on the end, unless the output beam goes into something other than a fiber. The fiber can be coiled, so the laser cavity can be many meters long if desired.
Fiber Laser Energy Savings CalculatorIPG's fiber lasers are 'greener' than conventional lasers and non-laser tools: Lower electrical consumption: Fiber lasers are up to 15x more efficient than conventional lasers Lower cooling: The unique design of fiber lasers requires less cooling. IPG Photonics is the world's leading provider of high power fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers that are revolutionizing performance and utility in a remarkable array of materials processing, micromachining, telecommunications, medical and other advanced applications. NEW IPG Corporate Video.