A Marian grotto in Bischofferode (Germany). A grotto (Italian grotta and French grotte) is any type of natural or artificial cave that is associated with modern, historic, or prehistoric use by humans. Grotto in an iceberg with the Terra Nova ship in the background (1911) during the 'British Antarctic Expedition' by Herbert G. Ponting. Grotto of the Buttes-Chaumont in Paris. Grotto pavilion in Kuskovo, Moscow (1775).
Grotto. A grotto is any type of natural or artificial cave that is associated with modern, historic, or prehistoric use by humans. When it is not an artificial garden feature, a grotto is often a small cave near water and often flooded or liable to flood at high tide. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: grotto (Noun). A small cave. grotto (Noun). An artificial cavern-like retreat. grotto (Noun). A Marian shrine, usually built in a cavern-like structure.
A grotto is any type of natural or artificial cave that is used by humans. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A grotto is any type of natural or artificial cave that is used by humans. Many religious shrines are set into grottos.
When it is not an artificial garden feature, a grotto is often a small cave near water and often flooded or liable to flood at high tide. The picturesque Grotta Azzurra at Capri and the grotto of the villa of Tiberius in the Bay of Naples are outstanding natural seashore grottoes. Grotto in an iceberg with the Terra Nova ship in the background (1911) during the 'British Antarctic Expedition' by Herbert G. Ponting. Grotto of the Buttes-Chaumont in Paris. Grotto pavilion in Kuskovo, Moscow (1775).
The numinous quality of the grotto is still more ancient, of course: in a grotto near Knossos in Crete, Eileithyia had been venerated even before Minoan palace-building, and farther back in time the immanence of the divine in a grotto is an aspect of the sacred caves of Lascaux. Grotto in an iceberg with the Terra Nova ship in the background (1911) during the 'British Antarctic Expedition' by Herbert G. Ponting. Grotto of the Buttes-Chaumont in Paris. Grotto pavilion in Kuskovo, Moscow (1775).
The Grotto is a internationally-renowned Catholic shrine and botanical garden located minutes from downtown Portland. Formally The National Sanctuary of Our Sorrowful Mother, The Grotto provides a peaceful retreat for more than 300,000 visitors each year from all faiths and all walks of life. The Grotto Conference Center provides a serene setting for business meetings, community workshops, or religious retreats. The Grotto is a non-profit organization supported solely by the proceeds of its gift shop and donations.
1. grotto-a small cave (usually with attractive features). grot. cave-a geological formation consisting of an underground enclosure with access from the surface of the ground or from the sea. n. pl. grot·toes or grot·tos. 1. A small cave or cavern. 2. An artificial structure or excavation made to resemble a
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A grotto is a small cave or a structure designed to resemble a cave. In both cases, the grotto is used by people for a variety of purposes. Natural caves which are not used by humans are generally just known as “caves.” Grottoes have been a source of interest for humans for centuries, and some very interesting archaeological finds have been made in grottoes all over the world.
The National Sanctuary of our Sorrowful Mother, popularly known as The Grotto, is a Catholic shrine and sanctuary in Portland, Oregon, United States. Located on Sandy Boulevard at Northeast 85th Avenue and occupying an area of 62 acres (25 ha), the sanctuary is set both at the foot of and on top of a cliff. 
You can join by directly contacting a Grotto in your area. Go to the Main Page then to the Quick Links. Listed is a Map of the Grottoes. On the left is the Grottoes in Order with their city and state. 