Yukon master overhaul kits include everything you need to rebuild your differential, install new ring and pinion gears or add a differential locker. Every component is of the highest quality and engineered specifically for your application to ensure accurate set up. Dana 44 IFS Yukon Master Overhaul Kit | '82 to '92. Yukon master overhaul kits include everything you need to rebuild your differential, install new ring and pinion gears or add a differential locker. Every component is of the highest quality and engineered specifically for your application to ensure accurate set up. Dana 44 Yukon Master Overhaul Kit | 30 Spline Front.
Yukon ring and pinion, differential carrier, and locker installation kits are available in minor (minimum) and master (complete) sets, or as individual components, to give you all of the bearings, seals, spacers, and miscellaneous parts you need to properly install and set up your differential. Yukon master overhaul kits include everything you need to rebuild your differential, install new ring and pinion gears or add a differential locker. Every component is of the highest quality and engineered specifically for your application to ensure accurate set up. Dana 44 Yukon Master Overhaul Kit | 30 Spline Front.
Yukon master overhaul kits include everything you need to rebuild your differential, install new ring and pinion gears or add a differential locker. Every component is of the highest quality and engineered specifically for your application to ensure accurate set up. Dana 44 Yukon Master Overhaul Kit | 19 Spline. Yukon master overhaul kits include everything you need to rebuild your differential, install new ring and pinion gears or add a differential locker. Every component is of the highest quality and engineered specifically for your application to ensure accurate set up. Dana 44 Yukon Master Overhaul Kit | 30 Spline Front.
My Jeeps. $400 for ring and pinion front and rear, another $300 to $400 for master install kits, $400 to $600 for labor. Adds up. The best quote I got including parts and labor is $1360. $400 for just the front and rear ring and pinion, not including install kit and labor is pretty typical. My quote for the hardware was less because they are also doing the install.
Once pinion depth is achieved using a new crush collar or preload shim pack (Dana®), set pinion bear-ing preload to 15 inch-pounds rotating torque with used bearings, and 25 inch-pounds with new bear-ings. Once preload is set, install the seal and Loctite® pinion nut. 12. Once the pinion gear is installed, position ring gear and carrier into housing to check backlash. Each ring gear and pinion is developed to run at .007” to .009” backlash for street gear sets.13. 
Yukon master overhaul kits include everything you need to rebuild your differential, install new ring and pinion gears or add a differential locker. Every component is of the highest quality and engineered specifically for your application to ensure accurate set up. Dana 44 IFS Yukon Master Overhaul Kit | '80 to '82. Yukon master overhaul kits include everything you need to rebuild your differential, install new ring and pinion gears or add a differential locker. Every component is of the highest quality and engineered specifically for your application to ensure accurate set up. Dana 44 Yukon Master Overhaul Kit | 30 Spline Front.