By Ashley Crossman. Labeling theory is one of the most important approaches to understanding deviant and criminal behavior. It stems from the work of W.I. Thomas who, in 1928, wrote, If men define situations as real, they are real in their consequences.. Critiques of Labeling Theory. One critique of labeling theory is that is emphasizes the interactive process of labeling and ignores the processes that lead to the deviant acts. Such processes might include differences in socialization, attitudes, and opportunities.
Medicalization of Deviance -- theory argues that in the last 100+ years, there has been a shift in which social institution primary is associated with the labeling/handling of deviance and deviants.
Labeling theory or social reaction theory is concerned with how the self-identity and behavior of individuals may be determined or influenced by the terms used to describe or classify them, and is associated with the concept of a self-fulfilling prophecy and stereotyping. Labeling theory or social reaction theory, focuses on the linguistic tendency of majorities to negatively label minorities or those seen as deviant from norms. Labeling theory or social reaction theory is closely related to social-construction of reality.
Labeling theory is the theory of how the self-identity and behavior of individuals may be determined or influenced by the terms used to describe or classify them. It is associated with the concepts of self-fulfilling prophecy and stereotyping. Labeling theory holds that deviance is not inherent to an act, but instead focuses on the tendency of majorities to negatively label minorities or those seen as deviant from standard cultural norms.
Labeling theory arose from the study of deviant behavior in the 1950's and 1960's and was a rejection of consensus theory or structural functionalism. Labeling theory or social reaction theory, focuses on the linguistic tendency of majorities to negatively label minorities or those seen as deviant from norms. Labeling theory or social reaction theory is closely related to social-construction of reality. The theory of symbolic interactionism has the closest affinity with labeling theory. and symbolic-interaction analysis
Labeling Theory. Page by Sarah Dye. Labeling Theory. Labeling theory is a pretty simple theory that is based on social deviations which result in the labeling of the outsider. In his article Becker defines deviance as being created by society. 
These theories often are linked with labeling theory. -- a person in such a subculture may feel role conflict or role strain trying to balance the norms of two very diverse groups of which one is a member -- theory has strengths and weaknesses. Think what they might be. -- theory argues that in the last 100+ years, there has been a shift in which social institution primary is associated with the labeling/handling of deviance and deviants.
Definition of Labeling Theory. Labeling theory was created by Howard Becker in 1963. Labeling theory takes the view that people become criminals when labeled as such and when they accept the label as a personal identity. The central contribution of symbolic-interaction analysis is labeling theory, the assertion that deviance and conformity result not so much from what people do as from how others respond to those actions. Take a look at a few key concepts and test your knowledge with a quiz.
Labeling theory is closely related to social-construction and symbolic-interaction analysis. Labeling theory was developed by sociologists during the 1960s. Howard Saul Becker's book Outsiders was extremely influential in the development of this theory and its rise to popularity. Labeling theory holds that deviance is not inherent to an act, but instead focuses on the tendency of majorities to negatively label minorities or those seen as deviant from standard cultural norms.