The incubation period is seven to 21 (usually 10 to 21) days after exposure to the herpes varicella-zoster virus to the development of the symptoms. The disease is most contagious a day or two before the rash appears and until the rash is completely dry and scabbed over, about five to six days after onset of the rash.
1 With some flu viruses, the fever lasts 4 or 5 days. 2  Contagious period: a person is contagious for 1 day prior to and for 7 days after the onset of symptoms (e.g., the fever and cough). 3  Incubation period: after exposure, a person will come down with swine flu symptoms in 4 to 6 days (5 days on the average).
1 Incubation period: after exposure, a person will come down with swine flu symptoms in 4 to 6 days (5 days on the average). 2  An outer limit rarely could be 7 days. 3  This virus has a longer incubation period than seasonal flu (1 to 3 days).
The estimated incubation period is unknown and could range from 1 to 7 days, and more likely 1 to 4 days. Persons with novel H1N1 flu virus infection should be considered potentially contagious (able to spread disease) for up to 7 days after illness onset.
Norovirus. Norovirus is the most common cause of stomach flu. Most people are contagious from the moment that they become ill. Much of the symptoms start appearing within a day or three days of getting exposed; some people are known to be contagious up about two weeks after recovering from the illness.
Children attending school often spread the virus to their parents and siblings. The incubation period-the time from exposure to RSV until you have symptoms-ranges from 2 to 8 days but usually is 4 to 6 days. You are most likely to spread the virus within the first several days after symptoms of RSV infection begin. You remain contagious for up to 8 days.
Incubation Period. According to the CDC, although the incubation period can range from one to four days, the typical incubation period is two days. People can begin infecting others about one day before any symptoms of the virus appear, and are contagious for about a week after that.