In colloid chemistry, flocculation refers to the process by which fine particulates are caused to clump together into a floc. The floc may then float to the top of the liquid (creaming), settle to the bottom of the liquid (sedimentation), or be readily filtered from the liquid. Flocculation (in polymer science) : When a sol is colloidally unstable (I.e., the rate of aggregation is not negligible) then the formation of aggregates is called floculation or coagulation. Agglomeration (except in polymer science). Coagulation (except in polymer science). Flocculation (except in polymer science).
Flocculation. Flocculation, in the field of chemistry, is a process wherein colloids come out of suspension in the form of floc or flake; either spontaneously or due to the addition of a clarifying agent. The action differs from precipitation in that, prior to flocculation, colloids are merely suspended in a liquid and not actually dissolved in a solution. In the flocculated system, there is no formation of a cake, since all the flocs are in the suspension.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: flocculation (Noun). A condition in which clays, polymers or other small charged particles become attached and form a fragile structure, a floc. The action differs from precipitation in that, prior to flocculation, colloids are merely suspended in a liquid and not actually dissolved in a solution. In the flocculated system, there is no formation of a cake, since all the flocs are in the suspension.
Noun. 1. flocculation-the process of flocculating; forming woolly cloudlike aggregations. natural action, natural process, action, activity-a process existing in or produced by nature (rather than by the intent of human beings); the action of natural forces; volcanic activity. Translations.
Louis Pasteur is erroneously credited with first describing flocculation of brewer’s yeast. Brewer's yeast flocculation has been the subject of many reviews (Stewart et al., 1975; Stewart and Russell, 1986; Calleja, 1987; Speers et al., 1992; Jin and Speers, 1999). Although this flocculation phenotype has not been fully characterised, it is differentiated from other flocculation phenotypes by a lack of inhibition of the zymolectin-like reaction in the presence of mannose (Dengis and Rouxhet, 1997; Guo et al., 2000; Smart, 2001).
• FLOCCULATION (noun). The noun FLOCCULATION has 1 sense: 1. the process of flocculating; forming woolly cloudlike aggregations. Familiarity information: FLOCCULATION used as a noun is very rare. 
Therefore, only chain formation and flocculation are of relevance to the brewing industry. Yeast flocculation is distinct from agglomeration (‘grit’ formation), which is irreversible and occurs most commonly in baker's yeast when strains fail to separate when resuspended (Guinard and Lewis, 1993). Although this flocculation phenotype has not been fully characterised, it is differentiated from other flocculation phenotypes by a lack of inhibition of the zymolectin-like reaction in the presence of mannose (Dengis and Rouxhet, 1997; Guo et al., 2000; Smart, 2001).
Links. Flocculation from Wikipedia: Flocculation is a process where a solute comes out of solution in the form of floc or flakes. The action differs from precipitation in that the solute coming out of solution does so at a concentration generally below the one of its solubility limit in the liquid. Flocculation-Definition, Glossary, Details-Oilgae. The process of forming floc particles when a chemical coagulant or flocculent such as alum or ferric chloride is added to the wastewater-Source.
Flocculation, in the field of chemistry, is a process wherein colloids come out of suspension in the form of floc or flake; either spontaneously or due to the addition of a clarifying agent. Flocculation (in polymer science) : When a sol is colloidally unstable (I.e., the rate of aggregation is not negligible) then the formation of aggregates is called floculation or coagulation. Agglomeration (except in polymer science). Coagulation (except in polymer science). Flocculation (except in polymer science).