Last time, I discussed the health effects of carrageenan, a food additive that is commonly used as a stabilizer, thickener, or emulsifier. Another additive that shares many of these functions in commercial foods is xanthan gum, which is also popular in gluten-free baked goods for the elasticity it lends to dough. I am highly allergic to xanthan gum. Within seconds of consuming anything containing it, the glands where my jaw meet my neck instantly swell to the size of golf balls (pain, breathing/swallowing problems, potential anaphylaxis, oh and the digestive problems too).
When baking, some people who avoid gluten mix xanthan gum with gluten-free flour to achieve the same effects. Swallowing problems. Some people who have trouble swallowing add a product called SimplyThick -- which contains xanthan gum -- to foods and drinks to make them easier to swallow. The results showed that xanthan gum was a highly efficient laxative .. Diabetes. In a 1985 study, nine people with diabetes and four people without diabetes ate muffins containing 12 grams of xanthan gum every day for six weeks.
Xanthan gum is used for lowering blood sugar and total cholesterol in people with diabetes. It is also used as a laxative. Xanthan gum is sometimes used as a saliva substitute in people with dry mouth (Sjogren's syndrome). In manufacturing, xanthan gum is used as a thickening and stabilizing agent in foods, toothpastes, and medicines. Xanthan gum is also an ingredient in some sustained-release pills.
Side effects. Xanthan gum seems to cause few side effects. A 1987 study, in which five healthy men ate roughly 10 to 13 grams daily, found no adverse effects. It may cause gas. Risks. The FDA has warned against giving SimplyThick to premature infants. The results showed that xanthan gum was a highly efficient laxative .. Diabetes. In a 1985 study, nine people with diabetes and four people without diabetes ate muffins containing 12 grams of xanthan gum every day for six weeks.
Xanthan gum might decrease blood sugar by decreasing the absorption of sugars from food. Diabetes medications are also used to lower blood sugar. Taking xanthan gum with diabetes medications might cause your blood sugar to be too low. Monitor your blood sugar closely. The dose of your diabetes medication might need to be change
The xanthan gum was linked to lower blood sugar and lower total cholesterol in people with diabetes. Celiac disease. People with this problem must avoid a protein called gluten. This protein is found in many grains, including wheat, barley, and rye, making it a common ingredient in baked goods and pasta. The results showed that xanthan gum was a highly efficient laxative .. Diabetes. In a 1985 study, nine people with diabetes and four people without diabetes ate muffins containing 12 grams of xanthan gum every day for six weeks.
Xanthan gum might decrease blood sugar by decreasing the absorption of sugars from food. Diabetes medications are also used to lower blood sugar. Taking xanthan gum with diabetes medications might cause your blood sugar to be too low. Monitor your blood sugar closely. The dose of your diabetes medication might need to be changed.
Side Effects. Xanthan gum can cause migraines or skin irritation. Its side effects also include intestinal gas, flatulence, diarrhea and bloating. Increased exposure can make the symptoms worse. 
XANTHAN GUM Side Effects & Safety. Xanthan gum is safe when up to 15 grams per day are taken. It can cause some side effects such as intestinal gas (flatulence) and bloating. People who are exposed to xanthan gum powder might experience flu-like symptoms, nose and throat irritation, and lung problems. It is also used as a laxative. Xanthan gum is sometimes used as a saliva substitute in people with dry mouth (Sjogren's syndrome). In manufacturing, xanthan gum is used as a thickening and stabilizing agent in foods, toothpastes, and medicines. Xanthan gum is also an ingredient in some sustained-release pills.
Xanthan gum is a largely indigestible polysaccharide that is produced by bacteria called Xanthomonas Camestris. (1) Manufacturers place the bacteria in a growth medium that contains sugars and other nutrients, and the resulting product of bacterial fermentation is purified, dried, powdered, and sold as xanthan gum. I am highly allergic to xanthan gum. Within seconds of consuming anything containing it, the glands where my jaw meet my neck instantly swell to the size of golf balls (pain, breathing/swallowing problems, potential anaphylaxis, oh and the digestive problems too).