The soft fleshy texture and delicately mild sweet flavor of scallops are enjoyed by even those who are not particularly fond of fish or other shellfish. The season for fresh sea scallops and bay scallops runs from October through March, while fresh calico scallops are available from December through May. In addition to their B12, scallops are a good source of magnesium and potassium, two other nutrients that provide significant benefits for the cardiovascular system. Magnesium helps out by causing blood vessels to relax, thus helping to lower blood pressure while improving blood flow.
10. Many scallops are hermaphrodites-they have both male and female sex organs. Others are only male or female. Scallops reproduce by spawning-releasing eggs and sperm into the water. Once an egg is fertilized, the young scallop is planktonic, and then settles to the sea floor, attaching to an object with byssal threads. Most scallop species lose this byssus and become free-swimming as they grow. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Scallops are edible bivalves similar to oysters and clams. They are found both in bay waters and in the sea. In terms of texture they are somewhat similar to white fish and have a fairly sweet flavor that is ideal for many different dishes. Nutritional Value. Scallops are very low in fat and fairly low in calories; a single scallop typically has only about 30 to 35 calories. They are a source of unsaturated fat with omega-3 fatty acids, which are recommended for a healthy diet and provide a decent source of vitamin B12 and calcium.
Pat dry and sprinkle with salt and pepper: Pat the scallops dry with a paper towel. Sprinkle them generously with salt and pepper. Heat the pan: Heat the butter or olive oil in the pan over medium-high heat. When a few flecks of water evaporate on contact, the pan is ready. Add the scallops to the pan: Place the scallops in the pan in a single layer, spaced about an inch apart. The first scallop should sizzle on contact. If it doesn't, wait a few seconds to let the pan heat before adding the rest.
Scallops are both fished and farmed or cultivated in water for harvest. They do not attach themselves to a permanent anchorage, but move themselves through the water by opening and closing their shells. As a result, the muscle that controls the hinge of the shell is much larger than that of oysters or clams. Nutritional Value. Scallops are very low in fat and fairly low in calories; a single scallop typically has only about 30 to 35 calories. They are a source of unsaturated fat with omega-3 fatty acids, which are recommended for a healthy diet and provide a decent source of vitamin B12 and calcium.
Scallop (/ˈskɒləp/ or /ˈskaeləp/) ˈskæləp is a common name that is primarily applied to any one of numerous species of saltwater clams or marine bivalve mollusks in the taxonomic Family, pectinidae the. scallops Many species of scallops are highly prized as a food source, and some are farmed as aquaculture. The word scallop is also applied to the meat of these bivalves when it is sold as seafood. In addition the name scallop is used as part of the name of dishes based on the meat of scallops, and is even applied to some dishes not containing scallop at all but which are prepared in a similar fashion.
Seafood scallops are very delicous imo you can find them in a clam shell the tiny squishy thing AROUND the shell is the scallop... however the big thing in the CENTER of the shell is the clam. The biger shells the bigger scallop! 
Scallops are a cosmopolitan family of bivalves, found in all of the world's oceans, though never in freshwater. They are one of very few groups of bivalves to be primarily free-living; many species are capable of rapidly swimming short distances and even of migrating some distance across the ocean floor. Many species of scallops are highly prized as a food source, and some are farmed as aquaculture. The word scallop is also applied to the meat of these bivalves when it is sold as seafood. In addition the name scallop is used as part of the name of dishes based on the meat of scallops, and is even applied to some dishes not containing scallop at all but which are prepared in a similar fashion