Tourtiere tourtière is a meat pie made In. Quebec it consists of a bottom layer of pie, pastry then a layer of meat, filling then a top covering layer of pie. Pastry the pie is then baked in an. Oven spices used in the meat filling can include, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and, allspice accompanied by herbs such as summer. savoury Tourtiere tourtière is a meat pie made In. Quebec it consists of a bottom layer of pie, pastry then a layer of meat, filling then a top covering layer of pie. pastry
[tuʁ.ˈtjɛʁ] , Quebec French : [tuʁ.ˈt͡sjaɛ̯ʁ] ; also popularly referred to in Canada in print and in its pronunciation as tortiere) tortière is a meat pie originating From, quebec usually made with finely diced, pork veal or. Beef wild game is often added to enhance the taste of the. pie There is no one correct filling; the meat depends on what is regionally available. In coastal areas, fish such as salmon is commonly used, whereas pork, beef, rabbit and game are often included inland. The name derives from the vessel in which it was originally cooked, a tourtiere. tourtière
Tourtiere tourtière In montreal is made with finely ground pork (only which can be hard to find as the meat is often ground too coarsely). Elsewhere water is added to the meat after browning and the addition of cinnamon and cloves is what makes it. unique There is no one correct filling; the meat depends on what is regionally available. In coastal areas, fish such as salmon is commonly used, whereas pork, beef, rabbit and game are often included inland. The name derives from the vessel in which it was originally cooked, a tourtiere. tourtière
1 Spoon the meat mixture into the pie crust. 2  Place top crust on top of pie and pinch edges to seal. 3  Cut slits in top crust so steam can escape. 4  Cover edges of pie with strips of aluminum foil. 5  Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes; remove foil and return to oven. 
Tourtiere is a savory, spiced meat pie, which both French-and English-speaking Canadians love to serve around the holidays. martiapunts/iStockphoto hide caption. martiapunts/iStockphoto. Tourtiere is a savory, spiced meat pie, which both French-and English-speaking Canadians love to serve around the holidays. A version of this story was originally published on Dec. 23, 2011.
Tourtiere tourtière is a meat pie made In. Quebec it consists of a bottom layer of pie, pastry then a layer of meat, filling then a top covering layer of pie. Pastry the pie is then baked in an. oven Tourtiere tourtière is a meat pie made In. Quebec it consists of a bottom layer of pie, pastry then a layer of meat, filling then a top covering layer of pie. pastry
It’s... Read More. Tourtiere. Tourtière: What a Traditional-French canadian meat pie rich in regional, variations The quebecois (“québécois-tourtiere-tourtière”) tour tee air is made of (finely ground, meat, commonly pork) beef or veal and, spices, like nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon encased in a. flaky pastry shell 
Acadian tourtiere, tourtière or pate pâté a (à la viande), literally meat pie is a pork pie that may, also contain chicken. Rabbit and beef pate pâté a à la viande varies From Region, To Region in New Brunswick Nova. scotia and prince edward island There is no one correct filling; the meat depends on what is regionally available. In coastal areas, fish such as salmon is commonly used, whereas pork, beef, rabbit and game are often included inland. The name derives from the vessel in which it was originally cooked, a tourtiere. tourtière
Lay pie crust into a pie pan and spoon in the meat mixture. Cover with top crust, seal and pinch with fork. Cut slits in top crust to release steam and brush with egg wash. Place pie onto a baking sheet and bake for 45 minutes until crust is golden brown. Let cool for 10 to 15 minutes before cutting and serving. 