Salary Information for an Information Systems Engineer. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) doesn't report salary information for information systems engineers. However, PayScale.com reports that most IT systems engineers earned between $48,135 and $98,609 per year as of 2014, with the median salary being $68,740. 
(United States). Generous salaries abound for Senior Systems Engineers in the United States, with average pay above six figures ($98K) per year. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For Senior Systems Engineers, experience does not seem to be a major factor in determining pay.
Typically reports to a supervisor or manager. View Systems Engineer III Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Systems Engineer III Categories: IT -- All Systems Engineer IV Salaries Responsible for the planning and engineering of an organization's systems infrastructure. A certain degree of creativity and latitude is required. Typically reports to a supervisor or manager. View Systems Engineer II Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Systems Engineer II Categories: IT -- All Systems Engineer III Salaries Responsible for the planning and engineering of an organization's systems infrastructure.
Median pay for Principal Systems Engineers is $122K annually. Many Senior Systems Engineers advance into roles as Information Technology Managers or Senior Systems Administrators, but the median salaries are $24K lower and $23K lower, respectively. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For Senior Systems Engineers, experience does not seem to be a major factor in determining pay.
Well to determine a systems engineer's pay you need to first decide what kind of a systems engineer you are talking about. We have information on several systems engineer jobs each with different pay ranges. Please select a specific systems engineer job from the list below or search systems engineer salaries. A certain degree of creativity and latitude is required. Typically reports to a supervisor or manager. View Systems Engineer II Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Systems Engineer II Categories: IT -- All Systems Engineer III Salaries Responsible for the planning and engineering of an organization's systems infrastructure.
Average Systems Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide are 59% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Systems Engineer I in the United States is $64,242 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Systems Engineer I in the United States are expected to make less than $64,242. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $64,242. 1  Salary. The annual salary for someone with the job title Systems Engineer I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Systems Engineer Salary. Systems Engineer average salary is $70,517, median salary is $68,000 with a salary range from $20,000 to $950,000. Systems Engineer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Systems Engineer salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.