SEARCH. Vital structures of the brain such as the thalamus, hypothalamus, epithalamus, and the pituitary gland are all housed within the autonomic region within the diencephalon. As a second subdivision of the forebrain, the diencephalon is neighbored by the cerebral hemispheres of the telencephalon
The diencephalon is a part of the brain that is responsible for many functions in the human body. In this lesson, you will learn about the diencephalon, including its location, parts, and functions. The brain sends a signal to the thalamus, which relays the signal to the body. Similarly, the body sends a signal to the thalamus, and the thalamus relays the signal to the brain. You can think of the thalamus as a mediator; it receives messages then sends the messages to the intended destination.
What is the Diencephalon? The diencephalon accepts sensory input, such as the sound of an orchestra playing, and relays information to the brain so that it can be processed. The diencephalon plays a part in regulating breathing and swallowing. The diencephalon complements functions of the limbic system. Diencephalon is involved in the regulation of the endocrine system. The pineal gland secretes melatonin, which promotes sleep. 
The human diencephalon is composed of several regions. The thalamus which relays sensory information to the cerebrum, processes visual and auditory stimuli, and generates some emotions, among other functions. 
The diencephalon or interbrain is one of the major regions of the brain in vertebrates. It consists of several structures between the brainstem and the cerebrum, including the thalamus, hypothalamus, epithalamus, pituitary gland, and pineal gland. Embryologically, the diencephalon begins as the region of the embryonic vertebrate neural tube that gives rise to posterior forebrain structures.
The diencephalon is the part of the forebrain that contains such important structures as the thalamus, hypothalamus and the posterior portion of the pituitary gland. 
Diencephalon: The diencephalon, along with the telencephalon (cerebrum) comprise the two major divisions of prosencephalon (forebrain). Main structures of the diencephalon include the hypothalamus, thalamus, epithalamus (including the pineal gland), and subthalamus. The diencephalon relays sensory information between brain regions and controls many autonomic functions of the peripheral nervous system. Function: The diencephalon is involved in several functions of the body including: 1  Directing Sense Impulses Throughout the Body. 2  Autonomic Function Control. 3  Endocrine Function Control. 4  Motor Function Control. 5  Homeostasis. 6  Hearing, Vision, Smell, and Taste. 7  Touch Perception.
The diencephalon is the part of the forebrain that contains such important structures as the thalamus, hypothalamus and the posterior portion of the pituitary gland. The diencephalon is the region of the brain that sits on top of the  brainstem, below the telencephalon. It includes the thalamus and  hypothalamus. Parts of diencephalon pe … rform numerous functions,  from regulating wakefulness to the control of the autonomic nervous  system. 1 person found this useful