Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Patients treated with appropriate antibiotics in the early stages of Lyme disease usually recover rapidly and completely. Antibiotics commonly used for oral treatment include doxycycline, amoxicillin, or cefuroxime axetil.
Early Lyme disease. 1  For people ages 8 and older, the number of days the antibiotic is used depends on the antibiotic and the severity of the infection. 2  Doxycycline should not be used to treat pregnant women or children younger than age 8.
Later stages of Lyme disease. 1  For Lyme arthritis, oral antibiotics are usually taken for several weeks. 2  If treatment with the oral antibiotic is not successful, an antibiotic may be given intravenously (IV).
Lyme Disease Antibiotic Treatment Research. For early Lyme disease, a short course of oral antibiotics, such as doxycycline or amoxicillin, cures the majority of cases. In more complicated cases, Lyme disease can usually be successfully treated with three to four weeks of antibiotic therapy.
Oral antibiotics (doxycycline, amoxicillin, or cefuroxime) are used for Lyme arthritis and acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans. (In rare cases, patients with arthritis may need intravenous antibiotics.). A 2 - 4 week course of intravenous ceftriaxone is used for treating severe cases of neurological Lyme disease.
The early stages of Lyme disease usually include the bull’s-eye rash (erythema migrans) and flu-like symptoms of chills and fever, fatigue, muscle pain, and headache. In rare cases, patients develop an abnormal heartbeat (Lyme carditis). All of these conditions are treated with 10 - 28 days with antibiotics.
Antibiotics are used to cure early Lyme disease and to greatly reduce the risk of future complications. Antibiotics may also be used in the later stages of Lyme disease, when additional symptoms involving the skin, joints, nervous system, or heart may develop.
People treated with antibiotics in the early stages of a Lyme disease infection usually recover rapidly and completely. Antibiotic treatment can range from 14 to 28 days. A few people, particularly those who are first diagnosed with later stages of the disease, may have persistent or recurrent symptoms.
1 For facial paralysis with no other nervous system problems, an oral antibiotic for several weeks is usually effective. 2  For severe heart symptoms of Lyme disease or for other Lyme disease nervous system problems such as Lyme meningitis, IV antibiotics may be given.