English Name Meaning-Lives in the ash tree grove. Derived from a surname and place name based on the Old English word for ash wood. Famous bearer: Ashley, the male character in Margaret Mitchells popular Gone with the Wind. In English, the name Ashley means-Lives in the ash tree grove. Derived from a surname and place name based on the Old English word for ash wood. Famous bearer: Ashley, the male character in Margaret Mitchells popular Gone with the Wind. Both a male and female name..
English Meaning: The name Ashley is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ashley is: Lives in the ash tree grove. Derived from a surname and place name based on the Old English word for ash wood. Famous bearer: Ashley, the male character in Margaret Mitchell's popular 'Gone with the Wind'. Both a male and female name. American Meaning: The name Ashley is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ashley is: Lives in the ash tree grove. Derived from a surname and place name based on the Old English word for ash wood. Famous bearer: Ashley, the male character in Margaret Mitchell's popular 'Gone with the Wind'.
Ashley /ash-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more widely as girls' name Ashley) is pronounced ASH-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Ashley is ash meadow. Surname and place name. As a given name, Ashley is now used mostly for girls. 
Meaning of Ashley. English name. In English, the name Ashley means-Lives in the ash tree grove. Derived from a surname and place name based on the Old English word for ash wood. Famous bearer: Ashley, the male character in Margaret Mitchells popular Gone with the Wind. Both a male and female name..
Look up Ashley in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. The name  Ashley  /ˈaeʃli/ ˈæʃli is Of english, origin from a place name and surname from The Old english 'words' (aesc) æsc ' ash ' (and, lēah meadow). Forest clearing as a, given name like most surnames turned into, First names ashley was originally used only for. male children As with many names that achieve popularity, a number of spellings of Ashley emerged. The United States Social Security Administration has records of many different spellings, including Ashley, Ashleigh, Ashlee, Ashlie, Ashlyn, and foreign-looking variants such as Ashle (ashlé-Pseudo). french
Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the girl name Ashley and related names. Prominent alternative forms of Ashley (#87 in 2014) are Ashlynn (#323 in 2014) , Ainsley (#334) , Ashton, Whitley, Lee, Ashly, Ashli, Ashely, Ashlee, Ashleigh and Ashlie. Also the name of an English saint. Literary: there is a character Ashley Wilkes in Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind. Also given exposure through TV via Ashley Olsen in Full House.
Ashley /ash-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less commonly as boys' name Ashley) is pronounced ASH-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Ashley is ash meadow. English surname and place name first used as a given name in the 16th century. Also the name of an English saint. Literary: there is a character Ashley Wilkes in Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind. Also given exposure through TV via Ashley Olsen in Full House.
The Origin of the name Ashley The origin of the name Ashley is believed to be: Old Engish. The Hidden Meaning of the name Ashley using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Ashley. The Origin, Meaning and the Hidden Meaning of the name Ashley This page details the origin and literal meaning of the name Ashley together with an insight into the hidden meaning and interpretation of the name using numerology. Derived from the surname meaning from the field near the ash tree