The liver metabolizes alcohol by using enzymes to change it into water, CO2 and fatty acids. It does not dissolve it in the technical sense. The rate at which a healthy liver … can metabolize alcohol is about 6/10ths of an ounce (14 gr or 17 ml) per hour.
The normal, healthy liver can process about 1/2 ounce of pure alcohol (that’s 6 to 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1 ounce of spirits) in an hour.
Your liver is a robust organ and can usually cope with drinking a small amount of alcohol. However the liver can only handle a certain amount of alcohol at any given time, so if you drink more than the liver can deal with by drinking too quickly, or drinking too much, your liver cells struggle to process it.
The liver is the largest gland, and the largest solid organ in the body, weighing an average of 1.8 kgs in men and 1.3 kgs in women. It holds approximately 13% (about one pint or 0.57 litres) of your total blood supply at any given moment and is estimated to have over 500 functions.
The average person will take about an hour to process 10 grams of alcohol, which is the amount of alcohol in a standard drink. So if you drink alcohol faster than your body can process it, your blood alcohol level will continue to rise.
From there it flows through a large blood vessel into your liver. In the liver, an enzyme similar to gastric ADH metabolizes the alcohol, which is converted to energy by a coenzyme called nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD).
Alcohol is basically a poison to the human body. It is toxic – as in “intoxication” – and without the liver it would kill a person pretty quickly. Thanks to the liver and other processes, however, most people who drink to excess don’t die – at least right away.
With regard to alcohol, it enters the liver after it is absorbed by the walls of the small intestine. Your liver can metabolize about one-half ounce of pure alcohol an hour (a can of beer, a glass or wine or a 1-ounce shot of liquor), and the rest heads toward other various organs as it is carried around in the blood.
A small amount of alcohol may be processed using a different set of enzymes in your liver. This alternative pathway, known as the ‘microsomal ethanol-oxidising system’ is mainly used when the level of alcohol in your blood is very high. Regular drinking can increase the activity of this second pathway.