Photo Credit: Regarding BBQ Inc. At a cooking temperature between 300 and 350 degrees F, it takes a chicken about 20 to 30 minutes per pound to cook. A 4 pound chicken should take nearly 2 hours. When the internal temperature of the chicken reaches 175 to 180 degree F, it is time to take it off the heat. 
Baste chicken: With a basting brush, thoroughly coat chicken with the barbecue sauce of your choice. You will want to baste the chicken (with sauce and drippings) at 20 to 30 minute intervals throughout the cooking process. Cook the chicken: Let chicken cook over indirect heat until the thickest part of the thigh reaches 165°F and has a deep golden skin (1 to 2 hours). Remove the chicken from the grill and let it rest: When finished cooking, remove the chicken from the rotisserie spit and let it set at room temperature for at least 15 minutes. This will give the chicken time to reabsorb its juices. Cut and serve. After the chicken has sufficiently rested.
If checked in the breast of the chicken it should be 170°F. If the chicken has not reached this temperature, continue to cook and check in 15 minute intervals until it is at the proper temperature. When the chicken is done, remove from the heat source and place on a heat proof surface, such as a cutting board. Preparing a chicken for the rotisserie is not much different than preparing it for roasting. Be sure to select a chicken that will be an appropriate size for the rotisserie unit you are using. If a frozen chicken is purchase, be sure it is completely thawed before you start to cook it.
H ere comes juicy, slow-roasted cooking. Rotisserie grilling is also referred to as spit roasting. In this slow cooking process, you can roast leg of lamb, ribs, whole turkey, whole and fryer chicken, vegetables, ham, fish and kabobs, just to name a few items. This page focuses on outdoor rotisserie grilling. More on indoor rotisserie grilling, go to indoor grilling.
6. Cook the bird. It takes 45 minutes to an hour for a 4 lb chicken, and 2 to 2.5 hours for a 12 pound turkey – adjust the times up or down based on the weight of your bird. Rotisserie cooking tends to be faster than “regular” grill roasting, so start checking if the bird is done at the early end of time frame.
1 Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. 1 Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. 2  Close the lid and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, basting occasionally, until the internal temperature reaches 180 degrees F (83 degrees C) when taken in the thigh with a meat thermometer.
One and a half hours is much too long to cook the chicken at 350 degrees F. The time your chicken will bake in the oven does depend on the internal temperature and the size of your chicken or chicken pieces. Generally I bake chicken at 350 degrees F. for 30 to 40 minutes. 
1 Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 2  Cook for 10 minutes. 3  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 4  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. 1 Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. 2  Close the lid and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, basting occasionally, until the internal temperature reaches 180 degrees F (83 degrees C) when taken in the thigh with a meat thermometer.
Set the rotisserie function on the oven as instructed by the user's manual. The display will read rot when it is on the proper setting. See the manufacturer's user manual for the unit you are using to find the suggested cooking time. The user manual for this oven suggests 120 minutes for a 4 to 5 lb. chicken. Preparing a chicken for the rotisserie is not much different than preparing it for roasting. Be sure to select a chicken that will be an appropriate size for the rotisserie unit you are using. If a frozen chicken is purchase, be sure it is completely thawed before you start to cook it.