· just now. Report Abuse. Striated muscle is a form of fibers that is separated into parallel fibers. More specifically, it can refer to: Skeletal muscle Cardiac muscle In practice, the term striated muscle is sometimes used to refer exclusively to skeletal muscle when distinguishing it from smooth muscle. 
1 Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 2  The brain and the nerv…. 3  The Importance of Stretching Before a Workout It is important to stretch before you work out. 4  Stretching helps to get your muscles ready for exercise and reduces the risk of injury and pain. 1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 3  The brain and the nerv…. 4
1 Skeletal muscle or voluntary muscle is anchored by tendons (or by aponeuroses at a few places) to bone and is used to effect skeletal movement such as locomotion and in maintaining posture. Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion
Voluntary muscles aka skeletal muscles do work by contracting. Most connecting to tendons, then to bone & joints. Voluntary means that you yourself have control over the … muscles that you move (legs, arms). 19 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary. Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion
voluntary muscle. n. A muscle, such as any of the striated muscles except the heart, whose action is normally controlled by individual volition. 
skeletal muscles are defined as attached to the bones of the skeleton and make body movement possible.   they are also known as striated muscles and they are voluntar … y muscles, meaning you can control any movement. 19 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
For the musician known as Somatic, see Hahn Rowe. The somatic nervous system (SoNS or voluntary nervous system) is the part of the peripheral nervous system associated with skeletal muscle voluntary control of body movements. The SoNS consists of afferent nerves and efferent nerves. 
Which of the following is a characteristic of skeletal muscle. Another name for skeletal muscle is voluntary muscle. Skeletal muscle cells are striated. Skeletal muscle tissue can contract rapidly and with great force, but tires easily and must rest after short periods of relativity. It is initiated by a temporary permeability to sodium ions which rush into the cell.; An action potential is a wave of electrical current.; An action potential is an all or nothing phenomenon-once started it goes to completion.; The result of the action potential is the contraction of the muscle cell.