Facebook Twitter Google+ Email. The name Rohan is many things to many people. It's a Hindi name, an alternate spelling of the Irish Rowan, and a place name from The Lord of the Rings. To top it off, the Hindi version became a standard in the Caribbean thanks to legendary cricket player Rohan Kanhai. 
Meaning of Indian name: Rohan. Meaning of the name Rohan is 'One who takes the higher path'. Rohan is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Rohan is '2'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Rohan
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Rohan and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Rohan and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Rohan has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Rohan are: 1  Sanskrit meaning: Ascending; healing, medicine, sandalwood. 2  Literary meaning: Horse-land.
The name Rohan is of Literary, Sanskrit origins, which means it has more than one root, and is used in more than one countries and different languages of the world, especially English speaking countries, Hindi speaking countries among others. The meaning of Rohan has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Rohan are: 1  Sanskrit meaning: Ascending; healing, medicine, sandalwood. 2  Literary meaning: Horse-land.
It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and its meaning is red-haired. Rohan is a legitimate Sanskrit name, but in English-speaking countries it is often associated with the Riders of Rohan in Tolkien's fantasy 'The Lord of the Rings'. In 2006 it was the 521st most popular boy's name in the US. Rohan means to ascend, to progress up
Sanskrit Meaning: The name Rohan is a Sanskrit baby name. In Sanskrit the meaning of the name Rohan is: Ascending. American Meaning: The name Rohan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rohan is: Ascending. Gaelic Meaning: The name Rohan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Rohan is: Red-haired; red. Irish Meaning: The name Rohan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Rohan is: Red-haired; red.
Name Rohan generally means Little red one, is of English, Indian, Sanskrit origin, Name Rohan is a Masculine (or Boy) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Christian or Muslim or Hindu by religion. 
The name Rohan is a Sanskrit baby name. In Sanskrit the meaning of the name Rohan is: Ascending. American Meaning: The name Rohan is an American baby name. Gaelic Meaning: The name Rohan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Rohan is: Red-haired; red. Irish Meaning: The name Rohan is an Irish baby name. In Irish