Virtually all minerals and rocks are considered nonrenewable in normal human definitions of time. The rate at which most minerals and rocks are being used far outstrips the ab … ilities of natural processes to renew them. In geologic time, some rock and mineral resources could be considered renewable. It is not a fossil fuel, because it does not use fossils. It is a non-renewable resource, because the radio-active materials they use, are usually only used once, although u … sing certain processes, they can be used again actually.
Rockhound. Mineral resources are considered non-renewable because their production by earth forces on a geologic timescale cannot keep up with their consumption by humans on a human timescale. Short Answer: Nonrenewable resources are resources we use and are disappearing and won't be replenished. The important nonrenewable resources are the ones we are running out … . Fossil fuels and metals are the ones of concern currently. These can not be created and do not naturally return to their original forms.
1. Distinguish between a renewable and nonrenewable resource. A renewable resource can be replaced in nature at a rate close to the rate of use. A nonrenewable resource exists in a fixed amount or is used up faster than it. can be replaced in nature. 2. 
Minerals are also considered non-renewable resources because not only do they take millions of years of heat and pressure to form deep underground, but they're also found in a very limited quantity on Earth. 
A resource of economic value that cannot be readily replaced by natural means on a level equal to its consumption. Most fossil fuels, such as oil, natural gas and coal are considered nonrenewable resources in that their use is not sustainable because their formation takes billions of years.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. They are considered a nonrenewable resource because they can't reproduce. Rock and minerals are formed over millions of years and are worn down over millions of years. They can't have babies. It is not a fossil fuel, because it does not use fossils. It is a non-renewable resource, because the radio-active materials they use, are usually only used once, although u … sing certain processes, they can be used again actually.
Coal, produced over millions of years, is a finite and non-renewable resource on a human time scale. A non-renewable resource (also called a finite resource) is a resource that does not renew itself at a sufficient rate for sustainable economic extraction in meaningful human time-frames. An example is carbon-based, organically-derived fuel. The original organic material, with the aid of heat and pressure, becomes a fuel such as oil or gas. Earth minerals and metal ores, fossil fuels (coal, petroleum, natural gas) and groundwater in certain aquifers are all non-renewable resources.
Virtually all minerals and rocks are considered nonrenewable in normal human definitions of time. The rate at which most minerals and rocks are being used far outstrips the ab … ilities of natural processes to renew them. In geologic time, some rock and mineral resources could be considered renewable. Short Answer: Nonrenewable resources are resources we use and are disappearing and won't be replenished. The important nonrenewable resources are the ones we are running out … . Fossil fuels and metals are the ones of concern currently. These can not be created and do not naturally return to their original forms.
Report Abuse. Hello, I am only a 10th grader, so I might not be the best judge... But I believe that minerals are considered non-renewable resources, as once they are completely exhausted, there is no natural way to renew them again. For example, lets us take land.