Confidence votes 170. Most earthquakes occur along the edge of the oceanic and continental plates. The earth's crust is made up of several pieces, called plates. The plates under the oceans are called oceanic plates and the rest which are under the land surface are continental plates. 
Then click on the map to compare the locations of earthquakes with plate boundaries. Compare the location of earthquakes and plate boundaries. Then answer the questions that follow. Questions. 1  Notice that earthquakes are mainly concentrated in narrow bands. 
Volcanic eruptions. As with earthquakes, volcanic activity is linked to plate-tectonic processes. Most of the world's active above-sea volcanoes are located near convergent plate boundaries where subduction is occurring, particularly around the Pacific basin. 
All but 3 of the world's 25 largest volcanic eruptions of the last 11,700 years occurred at volcanoes in the Ring of Fire. The Ring of Fire is a direct result of plate tectonics and the movement and collisions of lithospheric plates.
Main Content. An earthquake is ground shaking caused by a sudden movement of rock in the earth’s crust. Such movements occur along faults, which are thin zones of crushed rock separating blocks of crust.
Where does most seismic activity occur? in the center of tectonic plates along tectonic plate boundaries in mountains deep within the earth. Most seismic activity occur along tectonic plate boundaries. When talking about the physical elements of the Internet, the term ... 10/11/2015 2:51:25 AM| 1 Answers. Which part of the music stands out from any background material and ... Weegy: the part of the music that stands out from any background material and is a recognizable line of organized notes ...
At the Earth's surface, earthquakes manifest themselves by shaking and sometimes displacement of the ground. When the epicenter of a large earthquake is located offshore, the seabed may be displaced sufficiently to cause a tsunami. Earthquakes can also trigger landslides, and occasionally volcanic activity. An earthquake (also known as a quake, tremor or temblor) is the perceptible shaking of the surface of the Earth, which can be violent enough to destroy major buildings and kill thousands of people. The severity of the shaking can range from barely felt to violent enough to toss people around.
10. Oregon. 1  Remember that earthquakes centered in one State may produce damage in another. 2  This list does not reflect the extent to which earthquake activity might be concentrated in a few small areas of the State or spread throughout the State. 1 This list does not show how earthquakes are distributed with respect to the population of the State. 2  This list does not account for how earthquake waves are attenuated as they travel away from the earthquake epicenter. 3  This attenuation affects the area over which an earthquake will cause damage or be felt.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Earthquakes occur near faults and near the edges of plates in the earth's crust. Volcanic eruptions occur wherever a volcano is. Volcanic eruptions can occur when magma from below Earth's surface seeps through a weak spot in the crust. 