Pepsin is an enzyme whose zymogen (pepsinogen) is released by the chief cells in the stomach and that degrades food proteins into peptides. Pepsin is expressed as a pro-form zymogen, pepsinogen, whose primary structure has an additional 44 amino acids. In the stomach, chief cells release pepsinogen. This zymogen is activated by hydrochloric acid (HCl), which is released from parietal cells in the stomach lining. The hormone gastrin and the vagus nerve trigger the release of both pepsinogen and HCl from the stomach lining when food is ingested
A proenzyme or zymogen formed and secreted by the chief cells of the gastric mucosa; the acidity of the gastric juice and pepsin itself remove 44 amino acyl residues from pepsinogen to form active pepsin. Synonym(s): propepsin. [pepsin + G. -gen, producing]. A proenzyme formed and secreted by the chief cells of the gastric mucosa; the acidity of the gastric juice and pepsin itself remove 42 amino acid residues from pepsinogen to form active pepsin. Synonym(s): propepsin. [ pepsin + G. -gen, producing].
Pepsinogen I is secreted by chief cells, and pepsinogen II is secreted by pyloric glands. The secretion of pepsinogen is stimulated by vagal stimulation, gastrin, and histamine. Pepsinogen I is mainly found in the body of the stomach, where most acid is secreted. • Pepsin is a proteolytic enzyme, whereas pepsinogen is a proenzyme. • Pepsin is the active form of pepsinogen while pepsinogen is the inactive precursor of pepsin. • Unlike the pepsin, pepsinogen is secreted by chief cells and
The parietal or oxcyntic cells secrete hydrochloric acid; the peptic or chief cells secrete pepsinogen; the mucous cells secrete a bicarbonate rich mucous; and the G cells (found only in the antral glands) secrete the hormone Gastrin. 
The gastric mucosa secretes the inactive enzyme pepsinogen and hydrochloric acid (HCl). In the presence of HCl, the active enzyme pepsin is produced. Pepsin digests proteins into shorter polypeptides. The high concentration of HCl from the parietal cells makes gastric juice very acidic, with a pH of less than 2. 
Pepsinogen is activated into the digestive enzyme pepsin when it comes in contact with acid produced by gastric parietal cells. This type of cell also secretes gastric lipase enzymes, which help digest triglycerides into free fatty acids and di-and mono-glycerides. There is also evidence that the gastric chief cell secretes leptin in response to the presence of food in the stomach. Leptin has been found in the pepsinogen granules of chief
Activation of pepsinogen in the stomach. The peptidase in the stomach is pepsin. Pepsin works optimally in the acidic environment of the stomach, being active at pH 2-3, but becoming inactivated when the pH is above 5. The chief cells at the base of the gastric glands secrete the zymogen, which is called pepsinogen. Activation of pepsinogen starts when hydrocholoric acid (HCl) , which is secreted by the parietal cells partially activates pepsinogen (pepsinogen* in figure). This partially active enzyme then cleaves the peptide from other pepsinogen molecules to form active pepsin
pepsinogen. a zymogen secreted by the chief cells of the gastric glands and converted into pepsin in the presence of gastric acid or of pepsin itself. plasma pepsinogen. high levels are indicative of extensive mucosal damage in the abomasum, as in ostertagiasis in ruminants. A proenzyme formed and secreted by the chief cells of the gastric mucosa; the acidity of the gastric juice and pepsin itself remove 42 amino acid residues from pepsinogen to form active pepsin. Synonym(s): propepsin. [ pepsin + G. -gen, producing].