1 Around these reproductive organs is the perianth, usually consisting of an outer whorl of sepals and an inner whorl of petals. 2  Floral organ identity genes control the identity of the organs in the four floral whorls-the sepals, petals, stamens, and carpels-and act downstream of the meristem identity loci.
• WHORL (noun). The noun WHORL has 3 senses: 1. a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles (as formed by leaves or flower petals). 2. a strand or cluster of hair. 3. a structure consisting of something wound in a continuous series of loops. Familiarity information: WHORL used as a noun is uncommon.
whorl. n. 1. A form that coils or spirals; a curl or swirl: spread the icing in peaks and whorls. 2. Botany An arrangement of three or more leaves, petals, or other organs arising from a single node.
1 Whorl (botany) , used to describe the attachment of sepals, petals, leaves, or branches at a single point. 2  Whorl (biology) , used to describe the structures of organs and used in the aid of identification. 3  Whorl (fingerprint) , a type of fingerprint pattern.
whorl. n. 1. (Botany) botany a radial arrangement of three or more petals, stamens, leaves, etc, around a stem. 2. (Zoology) zoology a single turn in a spiral shell. 3. (Anatomy) one of the basic patterns of the human fingerprint, formed by several complete circular ridges one inside another.
A whorl is a type of spiral or circular pattern. Other meanings of whorl include: 1  Whorl (botany) , used to describe the attachment of sepals, petals, leaves, or branches at a single point. 2  Whorl (biology) , used to describe the structures of organs and used in the aid of identification. 3  Whorl (fingerprint) , a type of fingerprint pattern.
Full Definition of WHORL. 1. : a drum-shaped section on the lower part of a spindle in spinning or weaving machinery serving as a pulley for the tape drive that rotates the spindle. 2. : an arrangement of similar anatomical parts (as leaves) in a circle around a point on an axis. 3. 4. : one of the turns of a univalve shell.
whorl. 1. a circular arrangement of like parts, as leaves or flowers, around a point on an axis; verticil. 2. one of the turns or volutions of a spiral shell. 3. anything shaped like a coil.