A third element of China's plan to improve its overall environment is to tap into the expertise and resources of the international community. China is the largest recipient of environmental aid from the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the Global Environmental Facility and Japan.
Economy points out that one of the most important changes in China's environmental protest movement has been a shift, beginning in the late 2000s, from rural-based protests to urban movements. The issue has worried the top leadership, which views the unrest as a threat to the party's legitimacy and authority.
China's environmental crisis is one of the most pressing challenges to emerge from the country's rapid industrialization. Its economic rise, which has averaged around 10 percent annual GDP growth for the past decade, has come at the expense of its environment and public health.
China's two major rivers, the Huang He (Yellow River) and the Chang Jiang (Yangzi or Yangtze River), as well as the Pearl River (Zhu Jiang) delta system marked by the Xi Jiang (West River) in southeastern China, have provided the framework for agricultural development and population growth throughout China's history.
BEIJING — Filthy emissions from China’s export industries are carried across the Pacific Ocean and contribute to air pollution in the Western United States, according to a paper published Monday by a prominent American science journal.
For the past several years, China has been affected with the water pollution crisis. Three examples of wastewater pollution crisis in China are the City of Tianjin, the Chao Lakes and Xian City. City of Tianjin is the third largest industrial city in China.
China's Environmental Future. China is the world's most populous country and has had the world's fastest-growing economy for almost three decades, with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) that increased 12-fold between 1978 and 2005.
The present paper examines the relationship of man to the environment and with growing population, poverty and urbanization the environment is degrading. Population growth in India India is the second most populous country in the world after China. Recently, the population of India has crossed the one billion marks.