Not all bivalves still have a shell though; some have evolved a reduced shell or have completely lost the shell. Throughout history, bivalves have been one of the most important marine animals to humans. They have been used for food, jewelry, decoration, even money. Life history & ecology. In most bivalves, the pallial cavity contains a pair of very large gills that are used to capture food particles suspended in the inhalant water current. The food is bound in mucus that is carried by cilia along food grooves on the edges of the gills to the mouth region.
The bivalves (meaning two-shells) are perhaps the most well known mollusks simply because of their history as a source of food. Clams, mussels, oysters and scallops are all bivalves. There are about 15,000 known species of bivalve, with about 80% of them being marine (the rest are found in fresh water). There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods.
The foot is the muscular lower part of the body which is in contact with the substrate. Mollusks usually have a shell (although some do not). Mollusks also have an extension of the body wall called the mantle. This portion of the animal's anatomy is responsible for secreting the shell. The mantle encloses the mantle cavity which contains the Ctenidia (gills), anus and excretory pores. There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods.
Valve refers to a shell, so a bivalve possesses two shells, which are usually hinged together and more or less cover the animal (Class Bivalvia), while univalves have only one shell, and typically leave the muscular foot exposed, unless the animal is capable of withdrawing into its shell (Class Gastropoda). Your interface to the operating system is called a shell.   The shell is the outermost layer of the operating system. Shells incorporate a programming language to control p … rocesses and files, as well as to start and control other programs.
Bivalves. The mollusks that have a hinged, two-part shell joined by strong muscles are called bivalves. Clams, Oysters, and Scallops are bivalve mollusks and are a familiar food source. These three animals pull their shells closed by contracting powerful muscles near the hinge. The open these shells they have to relax their muscles. Squid and octopuses have a well-developed nervous system and large eyes which are similar to human eyes. Cephalopods are the only mollusks that have closed circulatory system, which the blood contains food and oxygen that moves through the body in a series of closed vessels. Just like a human's blood that moves through their blood vessel
In most bivalves the two halves of the mantle are fused around the edges, with openings anteriorly for the foot and posteriorly for the exhalant opening through which the water is expelled from the pallial cavity. This exhalant also carries waste products and gametes. Life history & ecology. In most bivalves, the pallial cavity contains a pair of very large gills that are used to capture food particles suspended in the inhalant water current. The food is bound in mucus that is carried by cilia along food grooves on the edges of the gills to the mouth region.
The shell is generated by the mantle from the inside. Pearls are made by clams, oysters and mussels when a grain of sand or other small irritant becomes painfully stuck in the mantle of the creature. The bivalve coats the irritant with the same material which is secreted to produce the inner lining of the shell. There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods.