you can use a titling company and according to the year you get a title from another state and transfer it to your state.www.Getnewtitle.com is a Title service company that specializes in lost car titles. You and the seller must go to your local DMV and apply for a replacement title.
If you have lost a motorcycle title, you can get a replacement. Once you have the title, you should keep it in a safe place such as a fireproof safe or in a safety deposit box at a bank. The title is needed to prove ownership and if you sell the motorcycle, you will need the title to sign it over to the new owner.
1 If your motorcycle title lists two owners, all persons listed on the original title might need to sign the application. 2  If you have an open lien on your motorcycle, the lienholder might need to apply for the duplicate title, or submit a notarized lien release for the motorcycle.
By Mail or In Person. You'll need to download and complete the Application for Duplicate Certificate of Title (Form T20558) to get your title replacement process started. You can submit your completed application in person at your local Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) office or mail it to: Registry of Motor Vehicles. Title Division.
We can also help you obtain a title for most any vehicle that you may have lost the title to. We belong to and help members of several car clubs when they need a car title. Broadway Title Company is a member of the NIADA and most all of the national car clubs.
For Lost Automobile Titles, let us cut through all of that confusing red tape for you! When dealing with lost car titles, you'll get your title fast! And It's Completely legal. At Broadway Title Company, we can help get new automobile titles issued for vehicles that have no current title.
1 If you have an open lien on your motorcycle, the lienholder might need to apply for the duplicate title, or submit a notarized lien release for the motorcycle. 2  Most states require a notary to witness your signature on the application.