MARTIN Surname Meaning & Origin: Martin is a patronymic surname taken from the ancient Latin given name Martinus, derived from Mars, the Roman god of fertility and war. Surname Origin: English, French, Scottish, Irish, German and others. Alternate Surname Spellings: Fun Facts About the Martin Surname: One of the early notable English MARTIN families was a strong seafaring family residing primarily in Leicester, England. Representatives include Admiral Sir Thomas Martin, Captain Matthew Martin and John Martin who sailed around the world with Sir Francis Drake.
From the Roman name Martinus, which was derived from Martis, the genitive case of the name of the Roman god MARS. Saint Martin of Tours was a 4th-century bishop who is the patron saint of France. An influential bearer of the name was Martin Luther (1483-1546), the theologian who began the Protestant Reformation. The name was also borne by five popes (two of them more commonly known as Marinus).
The surname is very common, in many variant forms, across Europe and this is credited to the widespread fame of the fourth-century St Martin of Tours. The Martin surname might also have origins in the ancient Latin name Martinus, derived from Mars, the Roman god of fertility and war. 
Origin of the name Martin: From the Latin Martinus (of Mars, war-like), a derivative of Mars, the name of the Roman mythological god of war. The name was borne by St. Martin of Tours (c. 315 – 397). He is mainly remembered for splitting his cloak in two and giving half to a beggar. 
The name is a shorter version of the Latin name Martinus. With over 230,000 people holding the surname Martin in France, it is the most common French surname. It has remained a popular given name in Christian times, in honor of the Catholic saint Martin of Tours; it is also
This interesting surname recorded in some two hundred forms from Martin and Martini to Marti and Martinovich, is of Roman origin. It derives from Mars, the god of fertility and war, although it is claimed that Mars itself may derive ultimately from the word mar, meaning to gleam. However the main impetus which gave the name such popularity was as a result of the good works of the 14th Century Saint Martin of Tours, in France. It is sais that Martin is one of the few saints names which the protestants accepted after the reformation.
Martin /mar-tin/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced MART-en, mar-TEEN. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Martin is dedicated to Mars. The name originates with the Roman war god, Mars. Saint Martin de Porres (16th and 17th century), a man of mixed Spanish and Indian blood, is patron of work for interracial justice and harmony. Protestant reformer Martin Luther also influenced the name in the 19th century. 
Martin is a common given and family name in many languages. In some languages, and as a given name, it comes from the Latin name Martinus, which is a late derived form of the name of the Roman god Mars, the protective godhead of the Latins (and therefore the god of war). It has remained a popular given name in Christian times, in honor of the Catholic saint Martin of Tours; it is also the most common French surname.
The name Martin is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Martin is: Warring. American Meaning: The name Martin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Martin is: Warring. English Meaning: The name Martin is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Martin is: Warrior of Mars. Latin Meaning: The name Martin is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Martin is: Of Mars (the Roman god of war); warlike. Famous Bearer: black civil-rights leader Martin Luther King.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Walter Martin, which was dated 1166, in the charters of the county of Northampton, England, during the reign of King Henry 11, known as The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. However the main impetus which gave the name such popularity was as a result of the good works of the 14th Century Saint Martin of Tours, in France. It is sais that Martin is one of the few saints names which the protestants accepted after the reformation.