Median hourly wage for a Long Term Care Nursing Director is $28.67 based on statistics in the U.S. as of 2015. The highest hourly rate recorded was $36.28. The lowest hourly rate recorded was $21.06. These figures will vary on a state to state basis as these are averages across all 50 states. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with 15+ years of experience. The average bonus recorded was $750 from people with under 1 year of experience. These are the highest paying states for a Long Term Care Nursing Director. These numbers are based of the median annual salary
The annual salary for someone with the job title Nurse Manager-Long-Term Care may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Nurse Manager-Long-Term Care that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Nurse Manager-Long-Term Care are expected to make less than the median.
Bonuses for a Long Term Care Nursing Director are based on the years of experience using statistics from the U.S. as of 2015. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with 15+ years of experience. The average bonus recorded was $750 from people with under 1 year of experience. These are the highest paying states for a Long Term Care Nursing Director. These numbers are based of the median annual salary as of 2015.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Nurse Manager-Long-Term Care in the United States is $73,754, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Nurse Manager-Long-Term Care in the United States are expected to make less than $73,754. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Nurse Manager-Long-Term Care that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Nurse Manager-Long-Term Care are expected to make less than the median.
Long Term Care Nursing Directors can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Austin (+28 percent), Houston (+21 percent), Fort Worth (+15 percent), and Dallas (+13 percent). Figures cited in this summary are based on replies to PayScale's salary questionnaire. For Long Term Care Nursing Directors, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $80K.
Average Director Of Nursing Salaries. The average salary for director of nursing jobs is $45,000. Average director of nursing salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term director of nursing anywhere in the job listing.
Average annual salary for a Long Term Care Nursing Director is $73295 based on statistics in the U.S. as of 2015. The highest salary recorded was $98069. The lowest salary reported was $52980. These figures will vary on a state to state basis as these are averages across all 50 states. The average bonus recorded was $0 from people with 15+ years of experience. The average bonus recorded was $750 from people with under 1 year of experience. These are the highest paying states for a Long Term Care Nursing Director. These numbers are based of the median annual salary
Average Long Term Care Nursing salaries for job postings in Alaska are 26% lower than average Long Term Care Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 49th among states in the country. Average Long Term Care Nursing salaries for job postings in Delaware are 12% lower than average Long Term Care Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 3
Relatively untried employees who have less than five years' experience make $71K, but folks with five to 10 years under their belts enjoy an appreciably larger median of $76K. For Long Term Care Nursing Directors, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $80K. Long Term Care Nursing Directors who surpass 20 years on the job report pay that isn't as high as one would expect; the median compensation for this crowd sits around $81
Median pay for Long Term Care Nursing Directors in the United States comes out to approximately $77K annually, but employers in Honolulu pay the most, the average compensation in that city is around $108K. For Long Term Care Nursing Directors, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $80K.