Causes of Chondrocalcinosis. Calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease is most common cause of chondrocalcinosis. These depositions have been found in high concentrations in hyaline cartilage, synovial tissue, capsule, meniscus, labrum, ligamentum flavum, the soft tissue of the hand and temporomandibular joint. Pesudogout is the another name used for pyrophosphate deposition disease but actually pseudogout is just one form of pyrophosphate deposition disease presentation. Chondrocalcinosis is a finding on the imaging study like x-ray and means deposition of calcium in the cartilage.
Chondrocalcinosis, on the other hand, refers to the radiographic evidence of calcification in hyaline and/or fibrocartilage. Pyrophosphate arthropathy is a term that may refer to either of the above. Statistically, the knee joint is the most commonly affected. Calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate disease, is a rheumatologic disorder with varied symptoms arising due to the accumulation of crystals of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate in the connective tissues.
Chondrocalcinosis is a joint disease characterized by the deposition of calcium crystals in the soft tissues of a joint. Patients with this disease experience joint pain that can sometimes be acute in nature. In sporadic chondrocalcinosis, there is no clear cause for the calcium deposition. Diagnosis can involve a physical exam, patient history, and medical imaging study of the joint. In chondrocalcinosis, the calcium deposits are clearly visible and follow-ups, such as biopsy of the joint, are not generally needed.
Chondrocalcinosis, on the other hand, refers to the radiographic evidence of calcification in hyaline and/or fibrocartilage. Osteoarthritis (OA) with CPPD reflects a situation where osteoarthritis features are the most apparent. Pyrophosphate arthropathy is a term that can refer to several of these situations. 
Although frequently used as a synonym for CPPD, chondrocalcinosis is a generic term referring simply to visible calcification of cartilage (both hyaline and fibrocartilage). Calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease (CPPD) is a very common cause of chondrocalcinosis. However, there are many more that include: 1  hypercalcaemia, especially hyperparathyroidism. 2  arthritides. 3  gout. 4  Wilson disease. 5  haemochromatosis. 6  ochronosis.
Chondrocalcinosis. Calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate disease, is a rheumatologic disorder with varied symptoms arising due to the accumulation of crystals of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate in the connective tissues.
As most of chondrocalcinosis is associated with calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease, in most of the patients, the presentation would be similar to pseudogout or calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease. Pesudogout is the another name used for pyrophosphate deposition disease but actually pseudogout is just one form of pyrophosphate deposition disease presentation. Chondrocalcinosis is a finding on the imaging study like x-ray and means deposition of calcium in the cartilage.
Chondrocalcinosis is a rheumatologic condition that is characterized by accumulation of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals or CPPD crystals in connective tissues or the joint cartilages. Although the exact cause of the disorder is not known, evidence suggests that it might have a hereditary association. Chondrocalcinosis often runs in families and so a genetic link can be suspected. Calcium pyrophosphate crystals accumulate in the joint, firstly in the cartilage and then in the synovial fluid.
Chondrocalcinosis is the medical condition of calcification of either hyaline articular cartilage or fibrocartilage. This is usually due to a collection of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate cyrstals, and usually is seen radiographically as a manifestation of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease (CPPD). 