Here are some Serving tips: Orange fruit sections are a great addition to green and fruit salads. Orange fruit juice can be a re-freshening intra-day drink. The fruit is also used in the preparation of desserts, jams, and jellies. Orange zest (peel) is also used in preparation of popular dishes for its rich flavor. Dried orange blossoms and leaves are used as herbal tea.
13 Health Benefits of Oranges: 1. Helps Prevent Cancer Oranges are rich in citrus limonoids, proven to help fight a number of varieties of cancer including that of the skin, lung, breast, stomach and colon. 2. Prevents Kidney Diseases. Drinking orange juice regularly prevents kidney diseases and reduces the risk of kidney stones. They have a wealth of nutrients including vitamin C, vitamin A precursors, calcium, potassium, and pectin. For a complete list of its nutrients and calories go to calories in an orange. Interesting Orange Facts: 1  Oranges are the largest citrus crop in the world.
If you want the characteristic bitter taste of marmalade, put the peels, use 2 cups of the original 4 cups of water or orange juice (for a richer flavor) and 1/8 teaspoon of baking soda in a saucepan. Bring the mix to a boil. Cover it, turn down the heat and let it simmer for 20 minutes. 1 Fruit - 8 whole oranges, thinly sliced (4 cups cut). 2  3 whole lemons, thinly sliced (1 cups cut). 3  Orange juice or Water - 4 cups of either. 4  I use orange juice instead of water, for extra flavor.
Washing oranges in a sink filled with water is not recommended since the stand-ing water can spread contamination from one orange to another. The use of soap or detergent is not recommended or approved for washing fruits and vegetables because the fruit can absorb detergent residues. 
Orange fruit contains a variety of phytochemicals. Hesperetin, naringin, and naringenin are flavonoids found in citrus fruits. Naringenin is found to have a bio-active effect on human health as antioxidant, free radical scavenger, anti-inflammatory, and immune system modulator. The fruit is also used in the preparation of desserts, jams, and jellies. Orange zest (peel) is also used in preparation of popular dishes for its rich flavor. Dried orange blossoms and leaves are used as herbal tea.
Tangerines are related varieties of oranges distinguished by loose, easily peeled shin (pericarp) and sweet juicy flesh (arils). They are also known as mandarin oranges in Europe and Satsumas in Japan. Just as oranges, these too belong to the Rutaceae (citrus Family) and known scientifically as Citrus reticulata. The fruit is also used in the preparation of desserts, jams, and jellies. Orange zest (peel) is also used in preparation of popular dishes for its rich flavor. Dried orange blossoms and leaves are used as herbal tea.
get healthy living updates. It’s citrus season, and, chances are, orange lovers have overloaded their compost bins and garbage cans with peels. But that’s no place for these workhorses — there are plenty of creative ways to use the peels around the house. Read on for surprising ways to use orange peels. But first, a word of warning. 
Bitter orange, Seville orange, sour orange, bigarade orange, or marmalade orange refers to a citrus tree (Citrus × aurantium) and its fruit. It is a hybrid between Citrus maxima (pomelo) and Citrus reticulata (mandarin). Many varieties of bitter orange are used for their essential oil, and are found in perfume, used as a flavoring or as a solvent. The Seville orange variety is used in the production of marmalade
This orange is used as a rootstock in groves of sweet orange. The fruit and leaves make lather and can be used as soap. The hard white or light yellow wood is used in woodworking and made into baseball bats in Cuba. It is a hybrid between Citrus maxima (pomelo) and Citrus reticulata (mandarin). Many varieties of bitter orange are used for their essential oil, and are found in perfume, used as a flavoring or as a solvent.