The outer covering of the eyeball consists of a relatively tough, white layer called the sclera (or white of the eye). Near the front of the eye, in the area protected by the eyelids, the sclera is covered by a thin, transparent membrane (conjunctiva), which runs to the edge of the cornea. The conjunctiva also covers the moist back surface of the eyelids and eyeballs. The cornea serves as a protective covering for the front of the eye and also helps focus light on the retina at the back of the eye. After passing through the cornea, light travels through the pupil (the black dot in the middl
It protects the cornea against damage by friction (tears from the tear glands help this process by lubricating the surface of the conjunctiva) Cornea Is the transparent, curved front of the eye which helps to converge the light rays which enter the eye Sclera Is an opaque, fibrous, protective outer structure. It protects the cornea against damage by friction (tears from the tear glands help this process by lubricating the surface of the conjunctiva) Lens Is the transparent, curved front of the eye which helps to converge the light rays which enter the eye Retina Is a transparent, jelly-like mass located behind the lens.
Both the anterior and the posterior chambers contain aqueous fluid. The cornea and the crystalline lens have no blood supply, so this clear aqueous fluid provides nutrients and removes any waste deposits from the transparent structures in the front of the eye. Sclera. The eye consists of three layers of tissue which make up the wall of the eye. The sclera is the outermost layer of tissue, also called the white of the eye. This layer is a very stable fibrous membrane that continues to retain the shape of the eye and provides protection.
EYE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION Eye is like a camera. The external object is seen like the camera takes the picture of any object. Light enters the eye through a small hole called the pupil and is focused on the retina, which is like a camera film. Eye also has a focusing lens, which focuses images from different distances on the retina. The colored ring of the eye, the iris, controls the amount of light entering the eye. It closes when light is bright and opens when light is dim. A tough white sheet called sclera covers the outside of the eye. Front of this sheet (sclera) is transparent in order to allow the light to enter the eye, the cornea. Ciliary muscles in ciliary body control the focusing of lens automatically. Choroid forms the vascular layer of the eye supplying nutrition to the eye structures
For other uses, see Cornea (disambiguation) . The cornea is the transparent front part of the eye that covers the iris, pupil, and anterior chamber. The cornea, with the anterior chamber and lens, refracts light, with the cornea accounting for approximately two-thirds of the eye's total optical power. In humans, the refractive power of the cornea is approximately 43 dioptres. While the cornea contributes most of the eye's focusing power, its focus is fixed.
Structure of the eye. The cornea is a transparent structure found in the very front of the eye that helps to focus incoming light. Situated behind the pupil is a colorless, transparent structure called the crystalline lens. A clear fluid called the aqueous humor fills the space between the cornea and the iris
The Cornea. The cornea is a transparent dome-shaped tissue that forms the front part of your eye. It functions as a window and allows light to enter your eye. It also begins the process of focusing light rays that allow you to see words and images clearly. 
Cornea. The cornea and sclera form the outer fibrous layer of the eye. The cornea is a clear transparent tissue, which is located forward of the eyeball. Light rays pass through this limpid tissue, and on through the crystalline lens to reach the retina. The cornea is convex in shape and for this reason directs or bends light rays so that they can be focused on the retina. Sclera. The eye consists of three layers of tissue which make up the wall of the eye. The sclera is the outermost layer of tissue, also called the white of the eye. This layer is a very stable fibrous membrane that continues to retain the shape of the eye and provides protection.