Your surgeon may put you in a cast (hard cast all the way around your wrist) or a splint (slab of plaster or fiberglass on the palm side of the wrist, held on with an ace wrap and padding) to protect the fracture while it heals. 
Type of cast. Location. Uses. Short arm cast. Applied below the elbow to the hand. Forearm or wrist fractures. Also used to hold the forearm or wrist muscles and tendons in place after surgery. Long arm cast. Applied from the upper arm to the hand. Upper arm, elbow, or forearm fractures. Also used to hold the arm or elbow muscles and tendons in place after surgery. Arm cylinder cast. Applied from the upper arm to the wrist.
A broken arm or wrist is usually caused by a fall onto an outstretched arm. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. Go to your nearest accident and emergency (A&E) department if you think you or your child has broken a bone. A useful rule of thumb is that the time taken for the bone to regain full strength is usually the same as the time it takes for the fracture to heal. That is, if you’ve been in plaster for six weeks, it will take six weeks to regain full strength. It's important not to get a plaster cast wet.
A cast holds a broken bone in place as it heals. Casts also help to prevent or decrease muscle contractions, and are effective at providing immobilization, especially after surgery. Casts immobilize the joint above and the joint below the area that is to be kept straight and without motion. Also used to hold the forearm or wrist muscles and tendons in place after surgery. Long arm cast. Applied from the upper arm to the hand. Upper arm, elbow, or forearm fractures. Also used to hold the arm or elbow muscles and tendons in place after surgery. Arm cylinder cast. Applied from the upper arm to the wrist.
A broken arm is a common injury. Counting all fractures, about one in every 20 involve the upper arm bone (humerus). Children are more likely to break the lower arm bones (radius and ulna). Falling on an outstretched hand or being in a car crash or some other type of accident is usually the cause of a broken arm. After the bones are aligned, the physician may use pins or a cast to hold them in place until they have healed. A stable fracture such as a buckle fracture may require 3 to 4 weeks in a cast; a more serious injury such as a Monteggia fracture-dislocation may need to be immobilized for 6 to 10 weeks.
Surgical treatment. Depending on the complexity of the fracture and the stability of the repair, a cast or brace may be necessary for 2 to 6 weeks after surgery. Motion exercises for the forearm, elbow, and wrist usually begin shortly after surgery. This early motion is important to prevent stiffness. Fractures of the forearm can occur near the wrist at the farthest (distal) end of the bone, in the middle of the forearm, or near the elbow at the top (proximal) end of the bone. This article focuses on fractures that occur in the middle segments of the radius and ulna.
A broken or fractured arm means that one or more of the bones of the arm have been cracked. This is a common injury occurring in both children and adults. In adults, fractures of the arm account for nearly half of all broken bones. In children, fractures of the forearm are second only to broken collarbones. 
How a broken arm or wrist is treated. A broken arm or wrist is usually treated in a hospital accident and emergency department. The treatment differs depending on the severity of the injury. A doctor will give you or your child painkillers and fix a splint to the arm to secure it in position and prevent further damage. A useful rule of thumb is that the time taken for the bone to regain full strength is usually the same as the time it takes for the fracture to heal. That is, if you’ve been in plaster for six weeks, it will take six weeks to regain full strength. It's important not to get a plaster cast wet.
After surgery, the patient's elbow may be splinted or casted for a short period of time. The patient may wear a sling if it provides comfort. Pain medications may be provided. The surgeon usually removes stitches or staples 10 to 14 days after surgery. 
Restricting movement of a broken bone is critical to healing. To do this, you may need to wear a splint, sling, brace or cast. If your broken arm requires a cast, your doctor will likely wait until the swelling goes down, usually five to seven days after injury. In the meantime, you'll likely wear a splint. Your doctor may ask you to return for more X-rays during the healing process to make sure the bones haven't shifted.