What is this Medicine? LEVOTHYROXINE (lee voe thye ROX een) is a thyroid hormone. This medicine can improve symptoms of thyroid deficiency such as slow speech, lack of energy, weight gain, hair loss, dry skin, and feeling cold. It also helps to treat goiter (an enlarged thyroid gland). It is also used to treat some kinds of thyroid cancer along with surgery and other medicines
Synthroid oral Uses. How to use Synthroid oral. Levothyroxine is used to treat an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). It replaces or provides more thyroid hormone, which is normally produced by the thyroid gland. Low thyroid hormone levels can occur naturally or when the thyroid gland is injured by radiation/medications or removed by surgery. Synthroid oral Warnings. This medication should not be used for weight loss. Normal doses of this medication will not work for weight loss, and large doses of this medication may cause serious, possibly fatal side effects, especially when taken with diet pills.
A: Levothyroxine is a synthetic replacement for a hormone that is normally produced by your thyroid gland to regulate the body's energy and metabolism. It is given when the thyroid does not produce enough of this hormone on its own. Levothyroxine is used to treat hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone) and to treat or prevent goiter (enlarged thyroid gland), which can be caused by hormone imbalances, radiation treatment, surgery, or cancer. A: Levothyroxine (Levothroid, Levoxyl, Synthroid) is a thyroid supplement which is used to treat hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid). Levothyroxine does not have any common side effects when taken at correct doses.
LEVOTHYROXINE (lee voe thye ROX een) is a thyroid hormone. This medicine can improve symptoms of thyroid deficiency such as slow speech, lack of energy, weight gain, hair loss, dry skin, and feeling cold. It also helps to treat goiter (an enlarged thyroid gland). It is also used to treat some kinds of thyroid cancer along with surgery and other medicines.
Levothyroxine is used to treat hypothyroidism, a condition where the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormone. Levothyroxine is also used to help decrease the size of enlarged thyroid glands (also called a goiter) and to treat thyroid cancer. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. 
Uses. Levothyroxine is used to treat an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). It replaces or provides more thyroid hormone, which is normally produced by the thyroid gland. Low thyroid hormone levels can occur naturally or when the thyroid gland is injured by radiation /medications or removed by surgery. Having enough thyroid hormone is important for maintaining normal mental and physical activity. How to use Synthroid. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily on an empty stomach, 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast. Take this medication with a full glass of water unless your doctor directs you otherwise. If you are taking the capsule form of this medication, swallow it whole.
Uses. Levothyroxine is used to treat an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). It replaces or provides more thyroid hormone, which is normally produced by the thyroid gland. Low thyroid hormone levels can occur naturally or when the thyroid gland is injured by radiation /medications or removed by surgery. How to use levothyroxine. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once daily on an empty stomach, 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast. Take this medication with a full glass of water unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
Levothyroxine is a synthetic thyroid hormone used to treat hypothyroidism, a condition in which the thyroid gland doesn't produce enough thyroid hormone. The drug is available under the brand names Levothroid, Levoxyl, Levo-T, Synthroid, Tirosint, and Unithroid. A: Levothyroxine (Levothroid, Levoxyl, Synthroid) is a thyroid supplement which is used to treat hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid). Levothyroxine does not have any common side effects when taken at correct doses.