Length. The Rocky Mountain Range actually represents a series of more than 100 separate mountain ranges, rather than one uninterrupted mountain chain. These ranges stretch through New Mexico, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Colorado, and also extend into British Columbia and Alberta, Canada. 
The American Rockies continue south from British Columbia and Alberta, through Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, and end at the Rio Grande in New Mexico. Here's a map showing the location of North American Rocky Mountains range http://www.socraticlobotomy.com/blog/wp-... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They stretch for over 3000 miles. The Canadian Rockies reach as far north as Laird Plain which is at the top of British Columbia, getting close to the Yukon border.
Main article: Rocky Mountains. The Rocky Mountains begin in northern New Mexico, where the axial crystalline rocks rise to 12,000 ft (3,700 m) between the horizontal structures of the plains on the east and the plateaus on the west. In Montana, their breadth is not more than 150 miles (240 km), and only seven summits exceed 11,000 feet (3350 m) with one reaching 12,834 ft (3,912 m). In general, the peaks in the Rocky Mountains tend to be fairly gentle and rounded relative to those found in other mountain ranges of comparable scale.
Best Answer: The Rocky Mountains neither end or begin in Texas as they do not extend into Texas. They extend from British Columbia in the north, through Alberta, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, to northern New Mexico in the south. Or if you prefer, consider describing them from south to north. It doesn't matter
The Rocky Mountains comprise 8 percent of the province. Banff, Canada's first national park, was established in 1885. Soon after, Waterton Lakes National Park was established on the southern end and Jasper National Park on the northern end of Alberta's Rocky Mountain Chain.
The Rocky Mountains were initially formed from 80 million to 55 million years ago during the Laramide orogeny, in which a number of plates began to slide underneath the North American plate. Alpine tundra occurs in regions above the treeline for the Rocky Mountains, which varies from 12,000 feet (3,700 m) in New Mexico to 2,500 feet (760 m) at the northern end of the Rocky Mountains (near the Yukon). The USGS defines ten forested zones in the Rocky Mountains.
The Rocky Mountains are found in western North America, from the northern Canadian provinces of British Columbia and Alberta, southward through the western United States' st … ates of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and northern New Mexico. 61 people found this useful. 
The Rocky Mountains, commonly known as the Rockies, are a major mountain range in western North America. The Rocky Mountains stretch more than 3,000 miles (4,800 km) from the northernmost part of British Columbia, in western Canada, to New Mexico, in the southwestern United States. Alpine tundra occurs in regions above the treeline for the Rocky Mountains, which varies from 12,000 feet (3,700 m) in New Mexico to 2,500 feet (760 m) at the northern end of the Rocky Mountains (near the Yukon). The USGS defines ten forested zones in the Rocky Mountains.
The Rocky Mountains as seen in Colorado. Scenics of America/PhotoLink/Getty Images. The Rocky Mountains are a large mountain range located in the western part of North America in the United States and Canada. The Rockies as they are also known, pass through northern New Mexico and into Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho and Montana. 
The Rocky Mountains are found in western North America, from the northern Canadian provinces of British Columbia and Alberta, southward through the western United States' st … ates of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and northern New Mexico. + 60 others found this useful. Noemi Flores. The Laurentian Mountains start in southern Quebec, Canada. They end  in the New York, United States. In New York the mountains are  called the Adirondack mountains.