1 You must be at least 17 years old (17-year old applicants require parental consent). 2  You must (with very few exceptions) have a high school diploma. 3  You must pass a physical medical exam. Before you visit your local recruiter, be sure you meet the minimum qualifications for serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. Some qualifications are required by all five services: 1  You must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien. 2  You must be at least 17 years old (17-year old applicants require parental consent).
For example, if one has 4 years of credible service in the Army and if they are looking to join the Air Force, but are past the age of 27 but are not more than 31 years old, they can have their prior service years deducted from their age. On April 1st, 2011, they reverted this to the lower age limit. In the United States Air Force, the maximum age allowed to enlist and ship to basic training is 27 years old. In the Air Force Reserves, the maximum age is 34 years old. In the Air National Guard, the maximum age is 39 years old
In the United States military system, you may enlist into any branch at the age of 17 years old with parental consent, or 18 years old without parental consent. Age waivers, although rare, are possible. On April 1st, 2011, they reverted this to the lower age limit. In the United States Air Force, the maximum age allowed to enlist and ship to basic training is 27 years old. In the Air Force Reserves, the maximum age is 34 years old. In the Air National Guard, the maximum age is 39 years old
In order to join the Reserve Officer Training Corps, applicants must be at least 17 years old and under the age of 32 upon being commissioned as an officer. To enlist as an officer through the Officer Candidate School, applicants between 18 and 35 years old are accepted. Applicants enlisting to become an officer must be at least 19 years old and no older than 35 years old. To qualify for the Navy Reserve, applicants must be between 18 and 39 years of age. Age restrictions may be waited for positions in high demand.
Marines. To enlist in the United States Marine Corps, applicants must be between the ages of 17 and 29 prior to joining. Applicants to the Marine Corps Reserves must meet similar age requirements. Applicants who have complete previous service may re-enlist up to the age of 32. Applicants enlisting to become an officer must be at least 19 years old and no older than 35 years old. To qualify for the Navy Reserve, applicants must be between 18 and 39 years of age. Age restrictions may be waited for positions in high demand.
The Air Force raised the maximum age for enlisted accession from 27 to 39, meaning it may now be the best choice for those who feel the call to military service later in life. The maximum age for Army enlisted recruits is 35, while the Navy and Marines cap recruit ages at 34 and 28, respectively. Under federal law, the oldest recruit any military branch can enlist is 42, although each service sets its own policy within that limit. WASHINGTON — Thanks to a new Air Force policy announced Tuesday, enlisted recruits can now experience the joys of basic training in their late 30s.
To enlist in the Army Reserve you must be: 1  Between the ages of 17–35 (must ship to basic training prior to 35th birthday). 2  A U.S. citizen or registered alien – U.S. Citizens or Permanent Resident Aliens (people who have an INS I-151/I-551 “Green Card”) may join the U.S. Military. 3  Healthy and in good physical condition. 1
1 You must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien. 2  You must be at least 17 years old (17-year old applicants require parental consent). 3  You must (with very few exceptions) have a high school diploma. 4  You must pass a physical medical exam. Before you visit your local recruiter, be sure you meet the minimum qualifications for serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. Some qualifications are required by all five services: 1  You must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien. 2  You must be at least 17 years old (17-year old applicants require parental consent).