You can see how Ecuador families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. Find out where people with the family name Ecuador lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. 
View official web sites from the country, and find comprehensive information on the nation in its diversity: The Ecuadorian culture, history and geography. Get key information on Ecuador's economy, education, science, environment, population, and government. Official Name: Republica república Del ecuador short: Form ecuador'int l long: Form republic Of ECUADOR Iso Country: code Ec: Time Local = TIME -utc 5h Actual: Time-Thu-oct 15:07 04 Country Calling: +code 593 Capital: City (quito. pop.1 4) Million Other: Cities, Cuenca (guayaquil largest city In) Ecuador: Government. republic
Origin of the name Ecuador The name Ecuador has its origin from the Spanish. Since the country is located on the equator, the Spanish called it El Ecuador. Symbols Click on each link below to learn more about the symbols. Capital-Quito National Animal-Andean Condor National Flag-The Ecuadorian flag has three horizontal stripes which from the bottom up are red, blue, and yellow. Geography. Ecuador is a very geographically varied country. It is about the same area as the US state of Nevada, or New Zealand and it is a bit larger than the United Kingdom. It straddles the equator (for which it was named) on the west (Pacific Ocean) coast of South America.
In 1828-1829 Ecuador was involved in a war with Peru over the border. However Ecuador withdrew from Gran Colombia in 1830. The new country took its name from the Spanish word for Equator. A Venezuelan general Juan Jose Flores became the first President of Ecuador. He reigned from 1831 to 1835 and from 1839 to 1845. 
Ecuador is a beautiful country in northern South America, on the western coast, between Peru and Colombia. The Equator runs right through it. Galapagos Islands is a part of Ec … uador. Ecuador is located in west South America between Colombia and Peru perú in The.(equator'that s what The spanish Word ecuador) Means this is the reason Why La mitad Del (Mundo … the center of the) world is In. (Quito'ecuador s). capital 2 people found this. useful
Ecuador is located in west South America between Colombia and Peru perú in The.(equator'that s what The spanish Word ecuador) Means this is the reason Why La mitad Del (Mundo … the center of the) world is In. quito Ecuador is located in west South America between Colombia and Peru perú in The.(equator'that s what The spanish Word ecuador) Means this is the reason Why La mitad Del (Mundo … the center of the) world is In. (Quito'ecuador s). capital 2 people found this. useful
Ecuadorian Baby Names. Ecuadorian Names are the names used in Republic of Ecuador, Latin America. Most Ecuadorian names are of Spanish origin names, as Ecuador was a colony of Spain and Gran Colombia until 1830 when it became an independent country. Other names are from Latin origin baby names. Click on an origin for more information about the different origins of Ecuadorian names. You can find popular and unique Ecuadorian Boy Names and Ecuadorian Girl Names by gender and origin in our abundant resource of Ecuadorian baby names and meanings. The names listed here are categorized by our name experts research, our readers feedback and other sources.
Ecuador, about equal in area to Nevada, is in the northwest part of South America fronting on the Pacific. To the north is Colombia and to the east and south is Peru. Two high and parallel ranges of the Andes, traversing the country from north to south, are topped by tall volcanic peaks. 