Groom yourself well. To be a true gentleman, you have to make sure your hair is regularly combed and that you either make a point of shaving your facial hair or that you maintain a nice, solid beard. Avoid the stubble and go for a nice clean shave every morning, or you will look sloppy. Another thing you should avoid if you want to be a gentleman is to tell your friends about your latest sexual progress with the girl you’re dating. It’s just not gentlemanly to talk about finally having sex with the girl you’re dating, what she’s like in bed, or even what kind of a kisser she is.
Being a gentleman revolves around one word: respect. It’s respect for yourself, those you care about, and those you want to care about. Here are 12 timeless tips on how to be a gentleman that will enhance your life, both personally and professionally: Read full content. So you want to be a gentleman but don’t know where to start. Being a gentleman isn’t a personality quirk. It’s not something you turn on and off like a switch. It’s a lifestyle. Although it’s a reputation that’s hit the endangered species list, like my Ghostbusters sweatshirt, I’m hopeful it will make a comeback.
How to Be a Modern Gentleman. If it seems like chivalry is dead, you'd be incorrect in assuming such. However, women recognize that it is becoming harder and harder to find the type of man who has long been termed a gentleman. Men, let's be frank; this article is for you. Be on time. A gentleman never keeps his date waiting but is punctual and ready to go at the appointed hour. Set your alarm if needed, and plan how long it will take to arrive at your destination ahead of time. 1  Don't be late without a very good excuse and be sure to phone her to explain what has happened to hold you up.
The first steps to looking and thinking like a gentleman. If you think that your ability to produce will compensate for a poor appearance, think again. Vanity, however, must be avoided if a good looking man is also a good man. What we are ultimately talking about is becoming a gentleman. Too many men didn’t have a strong male figure in their life when growing up to whom they looked for a good, manly foundation. Many men are trying to be too much like women or think manliness consists of vain delights and putting people down.
One tiny step at a time. Today, I’ll lay out the specific and practical strategies you can use to start taking steps towards becoming a fully-realized Fierce Gentleman. In each section below, I suggest certain resources that may help you on your journey. 32 Comments → How To Become a Fierce Gentleman. Andrew, really appreciate the insights that you are sharing. I was working towards the same ideal myself prior reading your articles and it’s good to have someone put into writing perspective that are immediately actionable.
In our world, the word ‘gentleman’ can mean many things. It can mean a generic man, or a solid, dependable guy, or it can be a cloying word for the halcyon men of 1950s advertisements. Let’s face it, in the 21st century, gentlemen are becoming harder and harder to find. 10. Being the best person that you can be is the way of the gentleman. A man cannot be perfect, but striving towards the basic core of humanity and decency is what makes a gentleman, once you dig beneath the suits and the smiles.
If you want to be a gentleman, then you should wear clothes that fit your body well, eliminate flashy clothing and avoid fashion faux pas (e.g. baseball hats cocked slightly to the side). A simpler wardrobe will keep the emphasis on you, not your clothes, which will change your appearance. Another thing you should avoid if you want to be a gentleman is to tell your friends about your latest sexual progress with the girl you’re dating. It’s just not gentlemanly to talk about finally having sex with the girl you’re dating, what she’s like in bed, or even what kind of a kisser she is.
To be a true gentleman, you need to be self aware, mature, and courteous. Although it seems that chivalry is dead, you can make a difference by making the effort to bring more respect and care into the world. Another thing you should avoid if you want to be a gentleman is to tell your friends about your latest sexual progress with the girl you’re dating. It’s just not gentlemanly to talk about finally having sex with the girl you’re dating, what she’s like in bed, or even what kind of a kisser she is.