Report Abuse. You can move it immediately after unplugging. If you lay it down while moving it, make sure it is on it's back, and leave it unplugged for 8 hours (or overnight) before plugging it back in. If you stand it up while moving it, you can plug it back in immediately. BW · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
I'm moving house next weekend, and was wondering how long my fridge freezer should be left before I can turn it on again, I've had conflicting information from various websites saying anything from 1 hour to 24 hours. 2,395. If transported totally upright, then you only need to leave it for a couple of hours-if at an angle or laid down then at least 24 hours-well this is what I have been told by several removers when I moved house 7 months ago.
Generally 24 hours is a good bet. Basically leave it as long as you can up to 24 hours without your food going off. Chillbox and ice packs are recommended. 
I live in Spain. I own a refrigerator. I just moved. The moving guy and my wife (both Spanish) insisted that after the refrigerator had been moved it had to settle for 24 hours before being plugged in. The guys who brought the fridge to my old house four years ago when I bought it told me the same thing. When the refrigerator is pluged in right after being set upright the oil can be sucked into the compressor and hydro-lock it. 24 hours is long enought for the oil to settle back into the sump of the compressor.
Moving the Refrigerator In. •Position it into its new space. Before you plug it in, let the refrigerator sit for at least 2-3 hours. This allows the fluids to flow back into the compressor. This is critical to its cooling mechanism. •Leave it plugged in. It'll take a while before the fridge is ready to use. Some require 3 days before they'll reach an optimum temperature. 
Posts. 2,395. If transported totally upright, then you only need to leave it for a couple of hours-if at an angle or laid down then at least 24 hours-well this is what I have been told by several removers when I moved house 7 months ago.
Age or technology have nothing to do with it. It all depends on whether or not you had it on its side and how long it was unplugged for. If it was on its side, you should only have to leave it upright and unplugged for at least 8 hours. This is in order to let the freon evenly distribute. Otherwise you should be fine. Best Answer: This strictly depends on how old the unit is. If it is from the 50's etc. then I would say absolutely. If it is only 1-10 years old, you should be okay. If you lay it down on it's side or back for a short time (10 minutes to 2 hours) you should be okay. You can plug it in. Your house will NOT blow up.