Explanation. The Iberian Lynx (Lynx pardinus) lives primarily on the Iberian Peninsula of Europe, specifically Spain and Portugal. The peninsula is on the west end of the Mediterranean Sea. Battle of the Brains. This question is part of the Battle of the Brains, a multiple choice learning game. 
Geographic Range. Iberian lynx are one of two carnivore species endemic to Europe (the other being European mink, Mustela lutreola). Their historical range is restricted to the Iberian Peninsula, primarily the southwestern region of Spain and much of Portugal. 
The Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus) is a endangered species native to the Iberian Peninsula in Southern Europe. It is the most endangered cat species in the world. According to the Portuguese conservation group SOS Lynx, if this species dies out, it will be the first feline extinction since the Smilodon 10,000 years ago. 
Iberian lynxes have similar coloration to Eurasian lynxes, but are smaller. Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. The critically endangered Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus) is considered the world’s most threatened cat species. Only two isolated breeding populations have been observed in the wild. Though these animals once inhabited the entire Iberian peninsula, they now live only in Portugal and southwest Spain. 
There are four lynx species, including the bobcat of North America. The Canadian lynx Lynx canadensis ranges from Newfoundland westward to Alaska and south into parts of the US. The Iberian lynx Lynx pardinus, the most rare species, is found only in isolated pockets of Spain and Portugal. The largest species, the Eurasian lynx Lynx lynx, is found throughout northern Europe and much of northern Asia. 
The Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus) is an endangered species of felid living mainly in the Iberian Peninsula in southwestern Europe. They are categorized as endangered by many institutions, including the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. According to the conservation group SOS Lynx, if the Iberian lynx died out, it would be the first feline species to become extinct since prehistoric times. Captive breeding and reintroduction programs have boosted their numbers. As of 2013, Andalusia has a population of 309 living in the wild
Find out more about the Iberian Lynx! Road and town development renders the Iberian Lynx homeless. There are only a few forests in Spain and Portugal where the remaining Iberian Lynx live, making them one of the most critically endangered species of the Felidae family. Forest development is one of the main reasons they have become so rare. They live in only a few forests in Spain and Portugal. The Iberian Lynx must really like rabbit because it accounts for an amazing 80% of their diet. They also eat young deer and duck. In spite of its strong resemblance to the Eurasian Lynx, the Iberian Lynx has a smaller body and the facial features of a house cat.
Formerly considered a subspecies of the Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx), the Iberian lynx is now classified as a separate species. Both species occurred together in central Europe in the Pleistocene epoch, being separated by habitat choice. According to the conservation group SOS Lynx, if the Iberian lynx died out, it would be the first feline species to become extinct since prehistoric times. Captive breeding and reintroduction programs have boosted their numbers. As of 2013, Andalusia has a population of 309 living in the wild