So some of the riding holidays have a rider weight limit of 13.5st/190 pounds/85kgs. Others a limit of 14st/195 pounds/90kgs. However, it's not an exact science and a tall, experienced rider, who may exceed the weight limit, may ride very light on the horse's back. So, please do check with us first. We do have a good selection of riding destinations for riders who weigh more than 14st/195 pounds/90kgs.
The maximum weight a horse can carry safely varies according to the breed of the horse and its usage. There is no absolute rule about how much weight a horse can carry, but generally speaking the lighter-framed the horse the less he can carry. 
Policies. 1  Our weight limit is 250 pounds and it is non-negotiable. 2  Our goal is to ensure a pleasurable ride for all of our riders. 3  In our rider request form we give notice of our weight restrictions and ask that everyone submit both their height and weight so that an appropriate horse can be matched to the rider. 
The maximum weight a horse can carry safely varies according to the breed of the horse and its usage. There is no absolute rule about how much weight a horse can carry, but generally speaking the lighter-framed the horse the less he can carry. One is simplistic: A rough guide to how much weight a horse can carry is to take the horse's weight (in lbs) divide by six --this equals the total weight the horse can carry, including tack. Or the 20% Rule: 1000 lb horse can carry 200 pounds.
Hi Julie, Some of my Mom's that ride are overweight. I asked one vet, he said, go with the 20% rule -- a 1000 lb horse can carry 200 pounds. Another vet friend said, it all depends, I'd rather have a 240 lb. guy who can ride, than a lump of mashed potatoes at 180. Hmmmm. I have rather smallish horses
The general rule of thumb is that a horse can safely carry 20% of it's weight (rider + tack). However...there are other factors that can play a role here. -conformation of the horse: A horse with a long back may not be able to carry as much as safely as a horse with a shorter back. 
You take 20% of your horse's body weight and the result is the amount of total weight your horse can carry. For example, a 1,000 pound horse should easily carry 200 pounds of rider and tack. The 20% rule typically applies to competitive or otherwise hard riding. The body weight of the horse is 1,150 pounds and the rider and gear weigh 235 pounds for a total combined weight of 1,350 pounds. Divide 1,350 (total combined weight) by 7.5 (cannon bone) and I get roughly 185. Divide 185 in half and my final resulting number is 93
Rider Weight Policy: We have no defined weight limit. If you are over 250 lbs it is best that you ride at our Estes Park location as we have the equipment and horses to meet your needs here. If you want to ride at a different location, you should call that location and they can work out details for you. The Estes Park Stable in particular has no defined weight limit. There is a difference between a 300 lb person who is 5 foot 2 and one who is 6 foot 5. Some folks are strong enough to handle their own weight while others struggle too much. It is very uncommon that we can’t accommodate someone.