This quick flushing rate often leads to heavy smoking, as smokers keep going for their next hit. However, as the nicotine is pumped through your blood stream, it will end up sticking throughout your body. It should take 6 to 8 hours to get one full cigarette out of your body. However, if you are a heavy smoker, you will have much more nicotine in your body. Through years of smoking, nicotine will end up in your fat cells and throughout the rest of your body. Once you quit smoking, the majority of the nicotine in your body should be metabolized and out of your body in 48 to 72 hours. However, because nicotine sticks to your fat cells and other parts of your body, it can take longer to flush out entirely. 
It should be out of your system in the next 9 days, if you completely abstain till then. How long does nicotine/cotinine stay detectable in a blood, urine, or mouth swab test. about 24 hours. For alcohol: in urine for up to 5 days, in blood 12 hours. For nicotine in urine for 4 days while in blood for 3 days, but if test is done cotinine a nicotine metabolite it can be for much longer 10 days.
Most of that nicotine gets eliminated in urine. 48-72 hours is how long it can take for most of the stored nicotine to be metabolized and leave your body. 20-30 days is how long the nicotine by-product cotinine can continue to circulate in the bloodstream. * The key is to stay away from tobacco in any form and flush all the toxic nicotine from your body. 
Regarding nicotine stored in your body, it takes 48-72 h and 20-30 days for the nicotine’s by-product cotinine to leave your body. Food and drinks vs. Nicotine. 1. Water hydrates the body because the nicotine dehydrates it and helps in sweating out the nicotine from your system. 2. Vegetables, such as egg-plants, beans, cucumbers and celery influence cigarette taste, decreasing nicotine dependence.
Report This | Share this:How long before Nicotine is out of system?Nicotine has a half-life in the human body of 2 hours (although it can range from 1 to 4 hours in different individuals). The average smoker has a blood nicotine concentration of about 40 ng/ml after an evening cigarette. 
Blood Test. Testing for nicotine shows that nicotine is detectable for 1 to 3 days. It is common to test for cotinine instead of nicotine, as cotinine is detectable in the system for up to 10 days after nicotine has been removed from your system. When smoking only occasionally or you have a limited nicotine intake, the nicotine should be cleared out in 3 to 4 days. If you are a regular smoker, it may take 1-2 weeks; if you are a long time heavy smoker, it may take more than 20 days for a clean urinalysis test.
48-72 hours is how long it can take for most of the stored nicotine to be metabolized and leave your body. 20-30 days is how long the nicotine by-product cotinine can continue to circulate in the bloodstream. 
How long does alcohol and tobacco stay in the body for a urine and blood test? It depends on the test. For alcohol: in urine for up to 5 days, in blood 12 hours. For nicotine in urine for 4 days while in blood for 3 days, but if test is done cotinine a nicotine metabolite it can be for much longer 10 days.
The length of time that nicotine stays in the body and cotinine can be a reliable indicator of nicotine use depends on the amount of tobacco smoked, the number of years smoking tobacco, and the type of nicotine test performed. It can be as short as 2 days, or as long as 3 months. 