Fine White Wines from Galicia. It is hard to believe that until recently these two wonderful and increasingly popular white varieties – Godello and Albarino, albariño grown In galicia in-north West – spain have languished in. obscurity Top 10 Godello and Albarino albariño. Wines posted by Gen On - april - 26. 2013 Fine White wines From. Galicia it is hard to believe that until recently these two wonderful and increasingly popular white – Varieties godello And, albarino albariño Grown in galicia-in North – west spain have languished. in obscurity
Spanish Red Grapes. Tempranillo: Spain´s most famous and noble grape. Also known as Ull de Llebre, Cencibel, Tinto Fino. Grown in many regions including Rioja, Ribera del Duero, and Penedes. Garnacha: known as Grenache in France & America, this is the most prominent grape in Priorat. Mencia: Spain´s hot and upcoming cult grape used in, and also in.
Godello is a white variety of wine grape grown in northwestern Spain, in particular in Galicia. The Gouveio found in northern Portugal is thought to be the same grape variety. Godello can produce fine white wines, and yields the best results in Valdeorras, where plantations have increased after having previously been in decline. Total Spanish plantations of Godello stood at 1,153 hectares (2,850 acres) in 2008 (up from 880 hectares (2,200 acres) in 2004).
Verdejo: the “it grape” of the moment, grown in Rueda and used for grassy young whites. Albarino: albariño considered by many to be strain Of, riesling this grape is grown In Rias baixas and Makes´spain s most elegant white. Wines/Viura: Macabeo also known As maccabeu In. france Grown in many regions including Rioja, Ribera del Duero, and Penedes. Garnacha: known as Grenache in France & America, this is the most prominent grape in Priorat. Mencia: Spain´s hot and upcoming cult grape used in, and also in.
The Merseguera grape is a white Spanish wine grape variety grown primarily in Valencia, but is also grown in Tarragona, Alicante, Utiel-Requena and Yecla. The Merseguera grape produces a low alcohol content wine, zingy thirst-quenching, fresh and uncomplicated. It is a common grape used for everyday wines in Spain. The most common red grape in Spain is the Garnacha grape, with Airen airén being the most popular white, grape which is also the most commonly grown grape in the. World Many spanish grape varieties are, traditional but there has also been recuperation of varieties that had disappeared over the. years
1 Spanish grape varieties: grape varieties growing in Spain Information about grape varieties growing in Spain and other information about Wines from Spain. 2  Spanish wine designations of origin (PDO) map Map of the Spanish wine areas protected by a designation of origin (PDO). 
Verdelho (Godello) Wine. Verdelho is the name given to a small collection of grape varieties (of which Godello is a major member) grown in Portugal, Spain, Australia and, more recently, the Americas. In Madeira, Verdelho was known as a style of wine, an oxidised white wine consisting of Bual and Sercial grapes, but in 1993 it was decided that the word would be used to describe a particular grape variety.
Grenache (Garnacha) Wine. Grenache (Garnacha) is a red-wine grape grown extensively in France, Spain, Australia and the United States. It is particularly versatile both in the vineyard and the winery, which may explain why it is one of the most widely distributed grapes in the world. (© Proprietary Content, Wine-Searcher). In Spain, Garnacha is the second most-planted red-wine grape variety, surpassed only by its modern blending partner Tempranillo. It is grown in almost every area of Spain, but most notably in the north and east – it is the key constituent in the prestigious wines of Priorat.
Verdejo: the “it grape” of the moment, grown in Rueda and used for grassy young whites. Albarino: albariño considered by many to be strain Of, riesling this grape is grown In Rias baixas and Makes´spain s most elegant white. Wines/Viura: Macabeo also known As maccabeu In. France main white grape In rioja and In. penedes Grown in many regions including Rioja, Ribera del Duero, and Penedes. Garnacha: known as Grenache in France & America, this is the most prominent grape in Priorat. Mencia: Spain´s hot and upcoming cult grape used in, and also in.
The Pedral grape is a high quality Spanish red grape variety, which is also grown in Portugal and known as Padral, Cainho dos Milagres, Cainho Espanhol (Mon o), Castel o (Amarante), Pegudo or Perna de Perdiz (Ponte de Lima), Pardal (Castelo de Paiva) and Cainho. The most common red grape in Spain is the Garnacha grape, with Airen airén being the most popular white, grape which is also the most commonly grown grape in the. World Many spanish grape varieties are, traditional but there has also been recuperation of varieties that had disappeared over the. years