the three types of white blood cells are lymphocytes which produces a chemical called antibodies, to destroy the bacteria. The second type is antitoxins and they neutralise th … e poisons that the bacteria are making.
There are three types of blood cells in the human body, but only one type of red blood cell. Red cells, or erythrocytes, are relatively large microscopic cells without nuclei … . In this latter trait, they are similar to the primitive prokaryotic cells of bacteria.
1 Red blood cells carry oxygen. 2  Of the 3 types of blood cells, red blood cells are the most plentiful. 3  In fact, a healthy adult has about 35 trillion of them. 4  The body creates these cells at a rate of about 2.4 million a second, and they each have a life span of about 120 days.
Stem cells in your bone marrow mature and develop into three types of blood cells: red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets. In most blood cancers, the normal blood cell development process is interrupted by uncontrolled growth of an abnormal type of blood cell.
Three types of blood cells, I suppose, would be red blood cells (erythrocytes), white blood cells (leukocytes), and platelets. Red blood cells are the main oxygen carriers i … n the circulatory system. They do so by holding large amounts of hemoglobin within them. The oxygen binds to the hemoglobin.
White blood cells, also called leukocytes, are much fewer in number than red blood cells. There are 5 different types of white blood cells that work together to protect the body by attacking foreign invaders, including bacteria, viruses and tumors. The most common type of white blood cells are called neutrophils.
Whole blood consists of 3 types of blood cells, suspended in a liquid called plasma. Blood circulates through the arteries and veins with each of the blood cell types -- red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets -- performing different functions throughout the body.
Blood is made mostly of plasma, but 3 main types of blood cells circulate with the plasma: 1  Platelets help the blood to clot. 2  Clotting stops the blood from flowing out of the body when a vein or artery is broken. 3  Platelets are also called thrombocytes. 4  Red blood cells carry oxygen.