Keywords: agriculture, environmental exposure, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, pesticides, thyroid gland. Identifying modifiable risk factors for thyroid disease is important, given that an estimated 5%–9% of adults have subclinical thyroid disease and 0.8%–7.5% have clinical thyroid disease (1 – 3). Association between pesticide use and thyroid disease. There were 16,529 spouses who had thyroid data, pesticide use data, and all covariate data; 2.2% were classified as hyperthyroid, 6.7% as hypothyroid, 3.4% as having other thyroid disease, and 87.6% as having no
In this study, we examined the association between 5 organochlorine insecticides, 39 other pesticides, and self-reported history of physician-diagnosed thyroid disease in female spouses of pesticide applicators. Association between pesticide use and thyroid disease. There were 16,529 spouses who had thyroid data, pesticide use data, and all covariate data; 2.2% were classified as hyperthyroid, 6.7% as hypothyroid, 3.4% as having other thyroid disease, and 87.6% as having no
Other studies have made similar associations between pesticides and thyroid disease. A 1998 study published in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives found that 10 percent of pesticides tested by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency were carcinogenic in laboratory rodents. A number of studies have associated certain pesticides with an increased risk of hypothyroidism and other thyroid diseases.
They also assessed risk of thyroid disease in relation to ever use of herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, and fumigants. Prevalence of self-reported clinically diagnosed thyroid disease was 12.5%, and prevalence of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism was 6.9% and 2.1%, respectively. Association between pesticide use and thyroid disease. There were 16,529 spouses who had thyroid data, pesticide use data, and all covariate data; 2.2% were classified as hyperthyroid, 6.7% as hypothyroid, 3.4% as having other thyroid disease, and 87.6% as having no
It's not clear what causes thyroid cancer. Thyroid cancer occurs when cells in your thyroid undergo genetic changes (mutations). The mutations allow the cells to grow and multiply rapidly. The cells also lose the ability to die, as normal cells would. The type of thyroid cancer you have determines treatment and prognosis. Types of thyroid cancer include: 1  Papillary thyroid cancer. 2  The most common form of thyroid cancer, papillary cancer arises from follicular cells, which produce and store thyroid hormones. 3  Papillary thyroid cancer can occur at any age, but most often it affects people ages 30-50. 4  Follicular thyroid cancer
Other factors associated with an increased risk of thyroid disease include female sex, increasing age, and iodine deficiency (5, 6). There is increasing evidence that environmental exposures, specifically to pesticides, should also be considered potential risk factors for thyroid disease. Association between pesticide use and thyroid disease. There were 16,529 spouses who had thyroid data, pesticide use data, and all covariate data; 2.2% were classified as hyperthyroid, 6.7% as hypothyroid, 3.4% as having other thyroid disease, and 87.6% as having no
For example, the following substances can affect thyroid hormone levels: amitrole; ioxynil; and the dithiocarbamates (such as maneb, mancozeb, and zineb). Amitrole (or aminotriazole) appears to interfere with thyroid hormone synthesis and can cause cancer of the thyroid. Many pesticides are now suspected of being endocrine disruptors-chemicals that can lead to an increase in birth defects, sexual abnormalities and reproductive failure.
Organic fruit and vegetables. High doses of some pesticides can cause cancer in animals, but the levels found in foods are tightly regulated to make sure they are well below this dose. The Food Standards Agency is responsible for food safety and standards in the UK. Fruit and vegetables sometimes contain very small amounts of pesticides, but there is no evidence that these small amounts increase the risk of cancer in people who eat them. There is also evidence that eating organic food will not affect your cancer risk.
(Beyond Pesticides, February 22, 2010) Wives of agricultural pesticide applicators have a significantly increased risk of developing thyroid disease, according to the new study, “Pesticide Use and Thyroid Disease Among Women in the Agricultural Health Study,” published in the American Journal of Epidemiology. A 2009 study, found that exposure to low levels of the chorpyrifos during pregnancy can impair learning, change brain function and alter thyroid levels of offspring into adulthood for tested mice, especially females.