The clavichord has also gained attention in other genres of music, in the form of the Clavinet, which is essentially an electric clavichord that uses a magnetic pickup to produce a signal for amplification. Stevie Wonder uses a Clavinet in many of his songs, such as  Superstition  and  Higher Ground . In crowns form his reward iiii libres. The clavichord was very popular from the 16th century to the 18th century, but mainly flourished in German-speaking lands, Scandinavia, and the Iberian Peninsula in the latter part of this period. It had fallen out of use by 1850.
Answers. Best Answer: A harpsichord is a stringed keyboard instrument, differing from the clavichord and the piano in having plucked, rather than struck, strings. Sometimes the name harpsichord is used to refer to the spinet and virginal as well as the harpsichord proper. The clavichord is a keyboard instrument, like the harpsichord, piano, virginal, spinet, and accordion. It is in the class known as the box zither, putting it also in the company of the dulcimer and autoharp. The main division in clavichords is between fretted and unfretted versions
The clavichord is a keyboard instrument, like the harpsichord, piano, virginal, spinet, and accordion. It is in the class known as the box zither, putting it also in the company of the dulcimer and autoharp. The main division in clavichords is between fretted and unfretted versions. 
Full Definition of CLAVICHORD. : an early keyboard instrument having strings struck by tangents attached directly to the key ends. — clav·i·chord·ist \-ˌkȯr-dist\ noun. See clavichord defined for English-language learners. See clavichord defined for kids. : a musical instrument that is similar to a piano and was played mostly in the past before the piano was invented. : an early keyboard instrument having strings struck by tangents attached directly to the key en
Noun. 1. clavichord-an early stringed instrument like a piano but with more delicate sound. keyboard instrument-a musical instrument that is played by means of a keyboard. stringed instrument-a musical instrument in which taut strings provide the source of sound. Translations. [ˈklaevɪkɔːd] ˈklævɪkɔːd → n clavicordio. m 
The action of the clavichord is unique among all keyboard instruments in that one part of the action simultaneously initiates the sound vibration while at the same time defining the endpoint of the vibrating string, and thus its pitch. In crowns form his reward iiii libres. The clavichord was very popular from the 16th century to the 18th century, but mainly flourished in German-speaking lands, Scandinavia, and the Iberian Peninsula in the latter part of this period. It had fallen out of use by 1850.