one factor was barbed wire. As farmers and ranchers wisened up, they used the wire to fence in their cattle, destroying the use of cowboys, and taking away one aspect of the  … wide open west. Herds of cattle took over the plains and destroyed the grass. 1 The Good-One Open Range Smoker/Grill Review For people interested in purchasing a smoker, there are various types and models on the market to select from, each offering different features and construction methods.
At that time Mexico included what was to become Texas. The longhorn cattle were kept on an open range, looked after by cowboys called vaqueros. In 1836, Texas became independent, the Mexicans left, leaving their cattle behind. Texan farmers claimed the cattle and set up their own ranches. Beef was not popular so the animals were used for their skins and tallow. He promised a good price for cattle sold in Abilene and was a man of his word. One cattleman bought 600 cows for $5,400 and sold them in Abilene for $16,800. It was the beginning of the ' beef bonanza '. Between 1867 and 1881 McCoy sent more than 2 million cattle from Abilene to Chicago.
Land in open range that is designated as part of a herd district reverses liabilities, requiring an animal's owner to fence it in or otherwise keep it on the person's own property. Most eastern states and jurisdictions in Canada require owners to fence in or herd their livestock. In the north, overgrazing stressed the open range, leading to insufficient winter forage for the cattle and starvation, particularly during the harsh winter of 1886–1887, when hundreds of thousands of cattle died across the Northwest, leading to collapse of the cattle industry.
The results were as follows: The greatest cause against barbed wire grew out of the closing of the Open Range. With the purchase of land and fencing in of the range, many small ranchers and cowmen were left without land for their cattle to feed on and without water for their cattle to drink from. These two men saw the fencing as a method to keep their cattle in, and thus they presented a novel purpose for the new fencing. In the end, 150 miles of barbed wire fencing was constructed at a price of over 39,000 dollars, to contain 1500 head of cattle.
one factor was barbed wire. As farmers and ranchers wisened up, they used the wire to fence in their cattle, destroying the use of cowboys, and taking away one aspect of the  … wide open west. Herds of cattle took over the plains and destroyed the grass. Farming settlers began to move into and own land in the open range areas. The farmers wanted to ke … ep free roaming cattle out of their crops. Ranchers bought land as well. Ranchers began to build up herds of specific breeds of cattle.
The open range came to an end because barbed wire was invented and was incredibly cheap, this meant that cattle ranchers could fence them in cheaply. One reason they wanted to … do this was because the cows could roam all over the place which led to confusion when one persons cattle ended up on another ranchers farm. Farming settlers began to move into and own land in the open range areas. The farmers wanted to ke … ep free roaming cattle out of their crops. Ranchers bought land as well. Ranchers began to build up herds of specific breeds of cattle.
As more settlers made their way west, the grass was depleted and the land developed for other uses. By the 1890s cattle were more commonly raised on ranches. One important reason this happened was the invention of barbed wire, which allowed ranchers to fence off vast tracts of land to control the range of the cattle. 
But the cowboy of the open range became legendary, kept alive for over a century by authors like Zane Grey and Louis Lamour, artists like Charles M. Russell and Frederick Remington, and entertainers like John Wayne, Clint Eastwood, and Kevin Costner. As a symbol of the free and rugged Westerner, the cowboy endures today, although the open range cattle rancher is long gone. Genuine cowboys, the laborers on cattle ranches, adapted with changing climates and systems, and still are much of the backbone of the beef cattle industry in the United States today.
The invention of barbed wire in 1884 closed the open range, bringing a halt the legendary cattle drives (Gard, 60). As railroads became more developed and widespread, they eventually became the transportation of choice for the shipment of cattle from South Texas. The foundation for the ranching industry in Texas sprang from the large number of cattle that existed in northern Mexico, roaming the open range. The first cattle were brought to the new world by Gregorio de Billalobos along the Panuco River in 1521 six months before Cortez captured Mexico City.
The open range came to an end because barbed wire was invented and was incredibly cheap, this meant that cattle ranchers could fence them in cheaply. One reason they wanted to … do this was because the cows could roam all over the place which led to confusion when one persons cattle ended up on another ranchers farm. 1 The Good-One Open Range Smoker/Grill Review For people interested in purchasing a smoker, there are various types and models on the market to select from, each offering different features and construction methods.