Welcome to the Official Website of the Town of Jupiter Island, designed to better inform the community of the activities of its local government. The Town has three separate operating units, the Town Commission, the Beach Protection District, and the South Martin Regional Utility (SMRU). The operating departments of the Town Government are Administration, the Building Department, Public Safety, and Public Works.
Jupiter Island Real Estate. Ideally situated 20 miles north of world-renowned Palm Beach, Jupiter Island is located between the Atlantic Ocean and the picturesque Intracoastal waterway. Designated as the most affluent community in the U.S., Jupiter Island is famed for its lush surroundings and beautiful beaches. The Island is sought after for its unspoiled natural beauty... [read more about Jupiter Island amenities, or view listings below]
About Jupiter Island. Jupiter Island homes, Florida's most exclusive and luxurious real estate. The unmatched beauty, quality and uniqueness of these homes and properties coupled with a growing desire for privacy have attracted the rich and famous alike. Most Jupiter Island real estate for sale are built on one and two acre parcels. Of far greater value are the present day homes in Jupiter Island; made so by the wealthy and famous, from Greg Norman to Tiger Woods, who established the top price range of $40M that he paid for his estate in 2006. Jupiter Island's first recorded history was as part of the Gomez Grant.
Jupiter Island estates cost as much as $4 million. ``Jupiter Island is beautiful, it`s wonderful-and it`s really quite famous,`` says Anges Ash, publisher of Florida`s social bible, the Palm Beach Daily News. ``But really, it`s just a great big club. November 18, 1987 | By Robert Kohlman, Scripps Howard News Service. WRITING FROM JUPITER ISLAND, FLA. — It is probably the largest-and most expensive-private club in the world. It is a nine-mile stretch of beach, complete with banyan-like ficus trees and very, very exclusive estates.
The Town of Jupiter Island, which was incorporated in 1953, operates in a manager-council form of government, with the Town’s day-to-day administration managed by the Town Manager. The Town has three separate operating units, the Town Commission, the Beach Protection District, and the South Martin Regional Utility (SMRU). The operating departments of the Town Government are Administration, the Building Department, Public Safety, and Public Works.
Jupiter Island is a town on the barrier island of Jupiter Island in Martin County, Florida, United States. It has no post office and all mail comes from Hobe Sound on the mainland. The population was 817 at the 2010 census. It is part of the Port St. Lucie Metropolitan Statistical Area. Worth magazine ranked Jupiter Island as #1 in the country for having the highest median home sale. Some of the wealthiest people in the United States live in Jupiter Island; it has the highest per capita income of any inhabited place in the country.
Jupiter Island homes are the centerpiece of the single wealthiest community in the United States. Florida's Jupiter Island is the third and southern of a triad of Barrier Islands located off the border of Martin County's Treasure Coast, directly north of West Palm Beach and Palm Beach County. Of far greater value are the present day homes in Jupiter Island; made so by the wealthy and famous, from Greg Norman to Tiger Woods, who established the top price range of $40M that he paid for his estate in 2006. Jupiter Island's first recorded history was as part of the Gomez Grant.