A contingency fee agreement is a payment arrangement that allows a plaintiff who has been injured and is seeking legal remedy to obtain legal representation even if they do not have money to pay a lawyer at the beginning of the case. A client does not have to pay a contingency fee up front, agreeing instead to pay an attorney a percentage of the client's award should they win the case. The contingency fee agreement will dictate the circumstances of payment, and how much an attorney is owed.
A client pays a contingent fees to a lawyer only if the lawyer handles a case successfully. Lawyers and clients use this arrangement only in cases where money is being claimed—most often in cases involving personal injury or workers' compensation. 
Full Definition of CONTINGENCY FEE. : a fee for services (as of a lawyer) paid upon successful completion of the services and usually calculated as a percentage of the gain realized for the client —called also contingent fee. See contingency fee defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT.
A contingent fee (in the United States) or conditional fee (in England and Wales) is any fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result. In the law, it is defined as a fee charged for a lawyer's services only if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of court.... Contingent fees are usually calculated as a percentage of the client's net recovery.. In the English legal system, it is generally referred to as no win no fee. A conditional fee agreement between a law firm and a client. The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor will take a law case on the understanding that if lost, no payment is made.
Contingency Fee Basics. The basic concept of the contingency fee agreement is that the client is out little or no upfront expenses; you as a client do not pay legal fees unless and until you win, and then the lawyer receives a percentage of your recovery as his or her fee. If you lose your case, there is no legal fee at all for the lawyer. A client does not have to pay a contingency fee up front, agreeing instead to pay an attorney a percentage of the client's award should they win the case. The contingency fee agreement will dictate the circumstances of payment, and how much an attorney is owed.
In a typical contingency fee agreement, the plaintiff is only responsible for paying their attorney if they win the case, with the payment coming as a percentage of the winnings, usually around 30%. The reason that contingency fees are used so often is related to the cost of pursuing a trial. In California, the median attorney hourly rate starts at $350 (pdf) for a small firm with 1-3 years of experience, and goes as high as $453 (average) for a large firm with 26-30 years of experience. 
Ethics: Contingency Fees For Lobbyists. Contingency fees are often paid to lawyers-in medical malpractice cases, for example. If a lawyer and client agree to do business on a contingency basis, the client pays no fees until the case is won, and at that time the lawyer gets a cut of the damages won. If the case is lost, the attorney receives no payment. 
A contingency fee is just like it sounds. It is a fee that is paid contingent upon money being awarded. If no money is obtained by the lawyer in the case, then the client does not owe the lawyer a fee. If a monetary award is obtained, either through settlement or verdict, the lawyer gets a percentage of the total recovery
contingency fee. noun. Tweet. : a payment that you make to a lawyer only if the lawyer wins your case in court. : a fee for services (as of a lawyer) paid upon successful completion of the services and usually calculated as a percentage of the gain realized for the client —called also contingent fee. See contingency fee defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT.
Payment to an attorney for legal services that depends, or is contingent, upon there being some recovery or award in the case. The payment is then a percentage of the amount recovered—such as 25 percent if the matter is settled, or 30 percent if it proceeds to trial. Contingent-fee agreements are valid only in civil cases and are frequently used in personal injury cases. Court rules and statutes often regulate these fees in relation to the type of action and amount of recovery.