An affix (in modern sense) is a morpheme that is attached to a word stem to form a new word. Affixes may be derivational, like English-ness and pre- , or inflectional, like English plural-s and past tense-ed. They are bound morphemes by definition; prefixes and suffixes may be separable affixes. Affixation is, thus, the linguistic process speakers use to form different words by adding morphemes (affixes) at the beginning (prefixation), the middle (infixation) or the end (suffixation) of words. Lexical affixes (or semantic affixes) are bound elements that appear as affixes, but function as incorporated nouns within verbs and as elements of compound nouns. In other words, they are similar to word roots/stems in function but similar to affixes in form.
• AFFIX (noun). The noun AFFIX has 1 sense: 1. a linguistic element added to a word to produce an inflected or derived form. Familiarity information: AFFIX used as a noun is very rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of affix): prefix (an affix that is added in front of the word). postfix; suffix (an affix that is added at the end of the word). infix (an affix that is inserted inside
A basic word to which affixes (prefixes and suffixes) are added is called a root word because it forms the basis of a new word. The root word is also a word in its own right. For example, the word lovely consists of the word love and the suffix-ly. 
Full Definition of AFFIX. 1. : one or more sounds or letters occurring as a bound form attached to the beginning or end of a word, base, or phrase or inserted within a word or base and serving to produce a derivative word or an inflectional form. 2. : appendage. — af·fix·al \-ˌfik-səl\ or af·fix·i·al \a-ˈfik-sē-əl\ adjective. 
An affix is added to the root of a word to change its meaning. An affix added to the front of a word is known as a prefix. One added to the back is known as a suffix. Sometimes, prefixes are hyphenated. 
Definition. An affix is a word element--a prefix, suffix, or infix --that can be attached to a base or root to form a new word or a new form of a word. Affixes are bound morphemes. Adjectives: affixable and affixal. By Richard Nordquist. An affix is a word element--a prefix, suffix, or infix --that can be attached to a base or root to form a new word or a new form of a word.
Types of affix. A prefix is an element placed at the beginning of a word to adjust or qualify its meaning, for example de- , non- , and re- . A suffix is an element placed at the end of a word to form a derivative, such as-ation, -fy, -ing, frequently one that converts the stem into another part of speech.
Definition. An affix is a bound morpheme that is joined before, after, or within a root or stem. An affix is joined by derivation or inflection.
Discussion. In contrast to an inflectional affix, a derivational affix. 1  is not part of an obligatory set of affixes. 2  generally occurs closer to the root. 3  generally is more meaningful, and. 4  is more likely to result in a form that has a somewhat idiosyncratic meaning. 