Although explosive eruptions at Kilauea are infrequent, deposits of ash discovered by USGS and other scientists document that they actually occur about as often as explosive eruptions from volcanoes in the Cascade Range of the Pacific Northwest, which includes Mount St. Helens, Washington. At least nine layers of volcanic ash, the oldest of which are tens of thousands of years old, are exposed along cliffs in the Hilina fault system, 6 to 8 miles (10 to 13 km) south of Kilauea's summit. Most of these layers are at least a few feet thick, and some are several tens of feet thick.
The eruptions which produced the Uwekahuna Ash were much larger than those of 1790, but most of the deposits are buried by younger lava flows of Kilauea and Mauna Loa. The Pahala Ash formed from even larger explosive eruptions earlier in Kilauea's history. Two one-to-two-meter thick ashes underlie the Uwekahuna Ash but overlie the thickest prehistoric ash, a reddish sequence of ash up to 85 feet thick where it is exposed in the Hilina Pali. The current eruption along Kilauea's East Rift Zone continues with passive effusion of lava. The lava is transported underground to the coast along the western edge of the flow field, where it enters the ocean after cascading over an ancient sea cliff.
In the past, the entire Homelani Ash was correlated with the Pahala Ash on Kilauea. We now know that the thickest section of the Homelani Ash is from Mauna Kea, lies beneath the Pahala Ash, and is between 120,000 and 200,000 years old. The current eruption along Kilauea's East Rift Zone continues with passive effusion of lava. The lava is transported underground to the coast along the western edge of the flow field, where it enters the ocean after cascading over an ancient sea cliff.
Lava flow during a rift eruption at Krafla, Iceland in 1984. Lava is the molten rock expelled by a volcano during an eruption and the resulting rock after solidification and cooling. This molten rock is formed in the interior of some planets, including Earth, and some of their satellites. The source of the heat that melts the rock within the earth is geothermal energy. When first erupted from a volcanic vent, lava is a liquid at temperatures from 700 to 1,200 °C (1,292 to 2,192 °F).
Structurally, Kīlauea has a large, fairly recently formed caldera at its summit and two active rift zones, one extending 125 km (78 mi) east and the other 35 km (22 mi) west, as an active fault of unknown depth moving vertically an average of 2 to 20 mm (0.1 to 0.8 in) per year. Activity in 1921–1923 followed. The next major eruption occurred in 1924. Halema ʻ uma ʻ u Crater, a fully formed pit crater after the 1919 event and the site of a sizable lava lake, first drained, then quickly began sinking into the ground, deepening to nearly 210 m (689 ft) beneath a thick cloud of volcanic ash.
They are large volcanic craters that form by two different methods: 1) an explosive volcanic eruption; or, 2) collapse of surface rock into an empty magma chamber. The image at right is a satellite view of one of the most famous calderas-Crater Lake in Oregon. Eruptions of ash and pumice: The cataclysmic eruption started from a vent on the northeast side of the volcano as a towering column of ash, with pyroclastic flows spreading to the northeast. Caldera collapse: As more magma was erupted, cracks opened up around the summit, which began to collapse.
Kīlauea's eruptive history has been a long and active one; its name means spewing or much spreading in the Hawaiian language, referring to its frequent outpouring of lava. Activity in 1921–1923 followed. The next major eruption occurred in 1924. Halema ʻ uma ʻ u Crater, a fully formed pit crater after the 1919 event and the site of a sizable lava lake, first drained, then quickly began sinking into the ground, deepening to nearly 210 m (689 ft) beneath a thick cloud of volcanic ash.
Collapse calderas form when a large magma chamber is emptied by a volcanic eruption or by subsurface magma movement. The unsupported rock that forms the roof of the magma chamber then collapses to form a large crater. Crater Lake and many other calderas are thought to have formed by this process. Eruptions of ash and pumice: The cataclysmic eruption started from a vent on the northeast side of the volcano as a towering column of ash, with pyroclastic flows spreading to the northeast. Caldera collapse: As more magma was erupted, cracks opened up around the summit, which began to collapse.
Stratovolcanoes. Stratovolcanoes, or composite volcanoes, get their name from the different layers, or strata, of ash and lava that form them. Most stratovolcanoes are irregularly shaped mountains formed by material ejected from both a central vent and other vents on the sides of the mountain. Others are formed when the summit of a volcano collapses into an empty magma cavern that had stored the magma prior to eruption. Shield Volcanoes. Shield volcanoes, formed when large flows of lava spread rapidly from central vents or rows of vents, are the largest volcanoes.