1 In humans fertilization occurs in the end of the fallopian tube away from the uterus (close to the ovary). 2  The egg and the associated cumulus cells are ovulated (released) from an ovarian follicle and picked up by the fallopian tube. 3  The tube pulls it inside where the sperm can find it. 
Short answer: Conception occurs when the egg is released from the ovary at ovulation and meets (is fertilized by) the sperm waiting in the fallopian tube. One sperm burrows into the wall of the egg which signals cells to grow and develop. This is the moment of conception, occurring within about 24 hours of ovulation. Successful conception, however, does not occur until the embryo implants into the endometrium of the uterus. This is when you are considered officially pregnant. Which happens about a week to 10 days after
Answer by Gauravmicro. Confidence votes 9.5K. In humans internal fertilization is found and it occurs during after intercourse when male ejaculated its sperm in female vagina and when one sperm cell fuse with ovum of female then fertilization occur and which produce an egg cell. The actual fertilization usually occurs in the fallopian tube.   Fertilization occurs within 12-24 hours after ovulation. Ovulation usually takes place 14 days afte … r your menstruation starts.
If no sperm is around to fertilize the egg, it moves through the uterus and disintegrates. Your hormone levels go back to normal. Your body sheds the thick lining of the uterus, and your period starts. Fertilization. If one sperm does make its way into the fallopian tube and burrows into the egg, it fertilizes the egg. The egg changes so that no other sperm can get in. At the instant of fertilization, your baby's genes and sex are set. If the sperm has a Y chromosome, your baby will be a boy. The Egg Travels to the Fallopian Tube. After the egg is released, it moves into the fallopian tube. It stays there for about 24 hours, waiting for a single sperm to fertilize it. All this happens, on average, about 2 weeks after your last period.
Illustration depicting ovulation and fertilization. Human fertilization is the union of a human egg and sperm, usually occurring in the ampulla of the uterine tube. The result of this union is the production of a zygote cell, or fertilized egg, initiating prenatal development. Scientists discovered the dynamics of human fertilization in the nineteenth century. The process of fertilization involves a sperm fusing with an ovum. The most common sequence begins with ejaculation during copulation, follows with ovulation, and finishes with fertilization.
fallopian tubes In the human body, fertilization of egg cells occur in the oviduct (also called the fallopian tube) of the female's reproductive system. Fertilization in cattle occurs in the ampula of the oviduct. Sperm  cells, after passing through the cervix, are transported by the  uterine horns to the oviducts of the cow … . Once there, the sperm  cells attach to the walls of the oviduct and futher mature for 4 to  6 hours.
Where does fertilization occur in the female body-the ovaries, the uterus, or the fallopian tubes? In this video, Dr. Oz reveals the answer when quizzing his audience on health questions for cash. 
Fertilization occurs when the nucleus of both a sperm and an egg fuse to form a diploid cell, known as zygote. The successful fusion of gametes forms a new organism. Scientists discovered the dynamics of human fertilization in the nineteenth century. The process of fertilization involves a sperm fusing with an ovum. The most common sequence begins with ejaculation during copulation, follows with ovulation, and finishes with fertilization.
Confidence votes 1.1K. The sperm usually fertilizes the egg in the Fallopian tubes. Then, the fertilized egg moves down to the uterus where it implants, causing pregnancy. The segment of the Fallopian Tube where fertilization commonly occurs is the ampulla.. Fertilization in cattle occurs in the ampula of the oviduct. Sperm  cells, after passing through the cervix, are transported by the  uterine horns to the oviducts of the cow … . Once there, the sperm  cells attach to the walls of the oviduct and futher mature for 4 to  6 hours.