1 Place roast in the refrigerator a couple of days ahead of time. 2  Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 3  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 4  Generously salt& pepper the roast on all sides. 1 Place roast, uncovered, in the middle of the oven that has been pre-heated to 325 degrees for 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 hours or until roast is almost done. 2  If you desire it to be medium-rare, remove from oven when it is rare.
Sirloin is a better cut beef, so you should receive excellent results as well. Cook's Illustrated considers Sirloin Top Butt/Tip Roast to be the poor man's Prime Rib. Slow roasting is how companies like Boar's Head and Thumann's prepare their deli meats ....usually for 8-10 hours @215-225*. 4. Drop the oven down to 225* and roast until the meat temperature hits 120-125*. Carry over temperature will only rise/increase about 5* during the resting period when roasting at 225*. 5. Rest for a minimum of 60 minutes, but I rest for 2 hours if possible.
Place the meat on the grill. Transfer the seasoned roast to the unlit portion of the grill. Cover the grill and cook for 1 hour. 1  Stick a meat thermometer into the center of the sirloin tip roast to test its internal temperature. 2  Monitor the temperature of the grill as the meat cooks to make sure it stays relatively consistent. 
How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice. 
As this type of roast is only a cut away from the sirloin, it is a tender cut of beef well suited to dry roasting or to braising in a bag. By choosing a roaster bag, commonly referred to as an oven or roasting bag, a sirloin tip roast can be one of the easiest meals to prepare for your family. Place the pan in the lower part of your oven, for approximately 1 ½ to 2 hours. Exact cooking times vary by the size of the roast and desired doneness. A sirloin tip roast retains its moisture and flavor best when cooked to medium-rare, or 145 degrees F. Step 7.
4 Cover the grill and cook until the temperature of the interior of the tri-tip reaches 120°F for a rare roast, 130°F for medium-rare and 140°F for medium. At this point the meat will take anywhere from 20 to 40 minutes to cook, depending on how hot your grill is, how well done you want it, and the size of the cut. Ingredients. 1  1 tri-tip roast, also known as triangle steak, a bottom sirloin cut (anywhere from 2 1/2 pounds to 4 pounds), look for one well-marbled with fat.
1 Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 2  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 3  Generously salt& pepper the roast on all sides. 4  Cover the bottom of a roasting pan with olive oil& set on medium-high heat about 4 minutes until very hot. 1 Place roast, uncovered, in the middle of the oven that has been pre-heated to 325 degrees for 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 hours or until roast is almost done. 2  If you desire it to be medium-rare, remove from oven when it is rare.
Assuming you will simply roast the meat with salt & pepper or a rub.....and @ a temperature of 200-250* to medium-rare or medium temperature: Be sure to take your roast out of the refrigerator 1-2 hours before roasting to bring the roast closer to room temperature. 4. Drop the oven down to 225* and roast until the meat temperature hits 120-125*. Carry over temperature will only rise/increase about 5* during the resting period when roasting at 225*. 5. Rest for a minimum of 60 minutes, but I rest for 2 hours if possible.
Trimmed tri-tip from the supermarket. Tri-tip is a roast cut from the bottom of the sirloin primal. There is only one tri-tip per side of beef, a total of two per animal. Tri-tip also goes by the name bottom sirloin butt and triangle roast, due to its triangular shape. Tri-tip is nicely marbled, tender, and one of the most flavorful cuts of beef you'll find. As a whole, untrimmed roast, tri-tip may weigh about 5 pounds. The tri-tips you're likely to find at the supermarket will weigh 1-1/2 to 2-1/2 pounds and measure 2-3 thick.