Dead zone is a more common term for hypoxia, which refers to a reduced level of oxygen in the water. Hypoxic zones are areas in the ocean of such low oxygen concentration that animal life suffocates and dies, and as a result are sometimes called dead zones.. 
Riparian buffers are vegetated areas next to water resources that protect water resources from nonpoint source pollution and provide bank stabilization and aquatic and wildlife habitat. The formal definition of riparian buffer is diverse and depends on the individual or group defining the term. 
1 Objectives of zone. • To enable the management and appropriate use of land that is reserved under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 or that is acquired under Part 11 of that Act. • To enable uses authorised under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974. 
The definition of a Green Zone varies from community to community, but there is a common concept: a Green Zone designation provides a local framework to protect the environmental and economic health of a community heavily affected by local pollution. Read more about Green Zones in this LA Times article. The Environmental Protection Agency endorsed the Green Zone concept at a forum at the White House in December 2010. CBE was there, along with other environmental justice and indigenous groups from around the country.
The Environmental Protection overlay zone is applied wherever the City determines that highly significant resources and functional values are present. The Environmental Protection overlay zone is shown on the Official Zoning Maps with the “p” symbol. The Environmental Conservation overlay zone is applied wherever the City determines that significant resources and functional values are present. The Environmental Conservation overlay zone is shown on the Official Zoning Maps with the “c” symbol. River Natural (n)
Flood Zone 2 – Medium Probability. Definition. This zone comprises land assessed as having between a 1 in 100 and 1 in 1,000 annual probability of river flooding (1% – 0.1%), or between a 1 in 200 and 1 in 1,000 annual probability of sea flooding (0.5% – 0.1%) in any year. Appropriate uses
The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) has adopted the concept of environmental zones (described in Table 1) and recommends their use in developing new outdoor lighting (IESNA 1999). In some states legislation is being considered that would restrict outdoor lighting by environmental zone. For example, California has drafted environmental legislation that includes the designation of outdoor lighting zones (CEC 2002). Application of environmental zones is first envisioned for the protection of natural park preserves and astronomical observatories. Environmental zones promise to reduce overall light pollution by helping to limit, or in some cases eliminate, light wastag
The intertidal zone, also known as the foreshore and seashore and sometimes referred to as the littoral zone, is the area that is above water at low tide and under water at high tide (in other words, the area between tide marks). Organisms in the intertidal zone are adapted to an environment of harsh extremes. Water is available regularly with the tides but varies from fresh with rain to highly saline and dry salt with drying between tidal inundations. The action of waves can dislodge residents from the littoral zone.
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. environmental 1 adj Environmental means concerned with the protection of the natural world of land, sea, air, plants, and animals. ADJ n ...the environmental claims being made for some products..., Environmental groups plan to stage public protests during the conference. 1 adj Environmental means concerned with the protection of the natural world of land, sea, air, plants, and animals. ADJ n. ...the environmental claims being made for some products..., Environmental groups plan to stage public protests during the conference. ♦ environmentally adv ADV adj.