Stucco is a mortar mixture used for siding. Stucco can be made by mixing sand and lime with water and various other ingredients, most often cement. Usually, wooden walls are covered with tar paper and chicken wire or galvanized metal screening. This framework is then covered with the stucco mixture.
How is Stucco Used. Stucco is applied to interior and exterior walls either manually or using machines. This Portland Cement Plaster can be used on concrete wall systems or on a frame structure in buildings. This is conventionally used for siding or to cover concrete, cinder block, clay brick or adobe.
Stucco. Stucco, the common term for portland cement plaster, is a popular exterior finish for buildings. It provides an economical hard surface that is rot, rust, and fire resistant, which can be colored and finished in a wide range of textures to adorn any architectural style.
Stucco is cement plaster applied over wall and surfaces inside and outside buildings. The stucco is a plaster type material that is made from cement, sand and lime. Stucco provides a hard, reliable, durable and low cost surface that requires little maintenance and can be used to obtain different textures and finishes.
Stucco is a type of finishing plaster that is commonly used on the exterior of buildings, and has been used in construction for centuries in various forms. While it can also be used inside, specially designed interior plasters have replaced it for interior use in most regions.
How is Stucco Used Stucco is applied to interior and exterior walls either manually or using machines. This Portland Cement Plaster can be used on concrete wall systems or on a frame structure in buildings. This is conventionally used for siding or to cover concrete, cinder block, clay brick or adobe.
Stucco is typically a cement, sand and lime mix with water. This would also be referred to as traditional stucco,1 or 3 coat stucco, or straight cement plaster. Normally, we consider stucco as referring to a durable exterior coating.