Date: 06 Mar, 2015. Eduardo Saverin is a well known Brazilian Internet entrepreneur and investor and also one of the five co founder of facebook along with four members Mark Zuckerberg, Chris Hughes, Andrew McCollum and Dustin Moskovitz. 
Eduardo Luiz Saverin (. [eduˈaɾdu luˈis ˈsaveɾĩ]) is a Brazilian internet entrepreneur, economist and angel investor. Saverin is one of the co-founders of Facebook. As of 2015, he owns 53 million Facebook shares (approximately 0.4% of all outstanding shares) and has a net worth of $4.9 billion, according to Forbes.
About Eduardo Saverin. Brazilian internet entrepreneur and investor, Eduardo Luiz Saverin has an estimated net worth of $5 billion as of May 2015 according to Forbes.. After Facebook went public, the filing shows that Saverin holds 53,133,360 shares worth a total of $2.18 billion, or just under 2 percent of Facebook’s outstanding shares. That number would be even higher if he hadn’t already sold off more than half of the shares he won in his lawsuit against the company. The parties settled, with Saverin apparently receiving a 5% stake and a co-founder bio on Facebook’s site. While his former classmates celebrate Facebook’s IPO at their new Menlo Park, California digs, company co-founder Eduardo Saverin may well be miles away, perhaps in his new home in Singapore.
Eduardo Saverin was born in Sao São, Paulo, brazil to a Wealthy Jewish brazilian, family and his family later moved To rio De. Janeiro'eduardo s, Father Roberto, saverin was an industrialist working in, clothing, shipping and real. estate [eduˈaɾdu luˈis ˈsaveɾĩ]) is a Brazilian internet entrepreneur, economist and angel investor. Saverin is one of the co-founders of Facebook. As of 2015, he owns 53 million Facebook shares (approximately 0.4% of all outstanding shares) and has a net worth of $4.9 billion, according to Forbes.
Saverin, who is not allowed to speak of the terms of his settlement with Facebook due to a non-disclosure, said of Zuckerberg in 2012; 'I have only good things to say about Mark, there are no hard feelings between us. 'His focus on the company since its very first day is anything short of admirable. Pricey: Saverin had reportedly rented out the entire Grand-Hotel hôtel Du-Cap Ferrat Four (seasons) above on The cote'D azur for the. Ceremony former: Pal, saverin who is worth$.5, 1billion was one of the-co founders Of facebook alongside former Friend Mark (zuckerberg above in 2014 with Wife Priscilla). chan
Eduardo Saverin net worth: $6 Billion. Eduardo Saverin net worth: Eduardo Saverin is Brazilian-born internet entrepreneur who has a net worth of $6 billion. Eduardo Saverin is famous for being one of the co-founders of Facebook. Saverin met Mark Zuckerberg in his freshman year and later became a co-founder of Facebook in his sophomore year, becoming CFO and business manager.
Eduardo Saverin Facebook net worth Settlement with Mark Zuckerberg. Eduardo Saverin co-founders of Facebook along with Mark Zuckerberg and others. He has a 5% share of Facebook, worth $ 1,100,000 as on may 13, 2010.In the movie Social networks, his character is played by Andrew Garfield. Eduardo Saverin co-founders of Facebook along with Mark Zuckerberg and others. He has a 5% share of Facebook, worth $ 1,100,000 as on m... Phaedra Parks Biography. Phaedra Parks is a lawyer and a member of the cast of The Real Housewives of Atlanta.
Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin is well-known for investing in tech startups. Since the Brazilian-born billionaire moved to Singapore in 2009, he’s put money into everything from mobile shopping apps to rental car services. The Brazilian-born Facebook cofounder Eduardo Saverin renounced his U.S. citizenship in 2012 and has been living in Singapore, where he's been making investments in international technology startups.
Dustin Moskovitz (born May 22, 1984) is an American internet entrepreneur who co-founded the website Facebook along with Mark Zuckerberg, Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum and Chris Hughes. In 2008, he left Facebook to co-found Asana with Justin Rosenstein. On October 3, 2008, Moskovitz announced that he was leaving Facebook to form a new company called Asana with Justin Rosenstein, an engineering manager at Facebook. Moskovitz was also the biggest angel investor in the mobile photo-sharing site Path, run by another former member of Facebook, David Morin.