Fast facts on Alzheimer's disease. Here are some key points about Alzheimer's. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Alzheimer's disease is the most common type of dementia. 2  The term dementia describes a loss of mental ability associated with gradual death of brain cells. 3  There are an estimated 5.3 million Americans of all ages with Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is a neurological disorder in which the death of brain cells causes memory loss and cognitive decline. A neurodegenerative type of dementia, the disease starts mild and gets progressively worse.
Causes of cardiovascular disease. While cardiovascular disease can refer to different heart or blood vessel problems, the term is often used to mean damage to your heart or blood vessels by atherosclerosis (ath-ur-o-skluh-ROE-sis), a buildup of fatty plaques in your arteries. 1 Dilated cardiomyopathy. 2  The cause of this most common type of cardiomyopathy often is unknown. 3  It may be caused by reduced blood flow to the heart (ischemic heart disease), infections, toxins and certain drugs.
Heart disease is an umbrella term for any type of disorder that affects the heart. Heart disease means the same as cardiac disease but not cardiovascular disease. Cardiovascular disease refers to disorders of the blood vessels and heart, while heart disease refers to just the heart. Angina. Also known as angina pectoris, angina occurs when an area of heart muscle does not get enough oxygen. The patient experiences chest discomfort, tightness or pain. Angina is not technically a disease, but rather a symptom of coronary artery disease. Lack of oxygen to the heart muscle is usually caused by the narrowing of the coronary arteries because of plaque accumulation (atherosclerosis)
The cause of cardiomyopathy, a thickening or enlarging of the heart muscle, may depend on the type: 1  Dilated cardiomyopathy. 2  The cause of this most common type of cardiomyopathy often is unknown. 3  It may be caused by reduced blood flow to the heart (ischemic heart disease), infections, toxins and certain drugs. 1
Commonly, the term disease is used to refer specifically to infectious diseases, which are clinically evident diseases that result from the presence of pathogenic microbial agents, including viruses, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, multicellular organisms, and aberrant proteins known as prions. Morbidity (from Latin morbidus, meaning sick, unhealthy) is a diseased state, disability, or poor health due to any cause. The term may be used to refer to the existence of any form of disease, or to the degree that the health condition affects the patient.
Roger's disease a ventricular septal defect; the term is usually restricted to small, asymptomatic defects. runt disease a graft-versus-host disease produced by immunologically competent cells in a foreign host that is unable to reject them, resulting in gross retardation of host development and in death. disease(s) (dizēz´) , n a definite deviation from the normal state characterized by a series of symptoms. Disease may be caused by developmental disturbances, genetic factors, metabolic factors, living agents, or physical, chemical, or radiant energy, or the cause may be unknown.
The term disease broadly refers to any condition that impairs the normal functioning of the body. For this reason, diseases are associated with dysfunctioning of the body's normal homeostatic process. Morbidity (from Latin morbidus, meaning sick, unhealthy) is a diseased state, disability, or poor health due to any cause. The term may be used to refer to the existence of any form of disease, or to the degree that the health condition affects the patient.
In humans, disease is often used more broadly to refer to any condition that causes pain, dysfunction, distress, social problems, or death to the person afflicted, or similar problems for those in contact with the person. Morbidity (from Latin morbidus, meaning sick, unhealthy) is a diseased state, disability, or poor health due to any cause. The term may be used to refer to the existence of any form of disease, or to the degree that the health condition affects the patient.
A medical condition is a broad term that includes all diseases, lesions and disorders. While the term medical condition generally includes mental illnesses, in some contexts the term is used specifically to denote any illness, injury, or disease except for mental illnesses. Morbidity (from Latin morbidus, meaning sick, unhealthy) is a diseased state, disability, or poor health due to any cause. The term may be used to refer to the existence of any form of disease, or to the degree that the health condition affects the patient.