Most lipids that you consume in your diet are fats. Some digestion occurs in your mouth and the stomach, but most takes place in the small intestine. Bile is produced by your liver, stored and released in your gall bladder and emulsifies fat globules into smaller droplets. Vitamins. Vitamins are an important part of food and are absorbed through the small intestine. Vitamins are grouped based on how your body absorbs them. Water-soluble B-complex and C vitamins dissolve in water prior to absorption.
Lipids, or fat, go undigested in your digestive tract until they reach your small intestine, where they meet bile. Bile contains bile salts, which act as an emulsifier of lipids. This breaks the large fat droplets into smaller droplets that are then easier for the fat-digesting enzyme pancreatic lipase to digest. The enzymes of the small intestine are responsible for almost all of the fat digestion. When pancreatic lipase acts on the lipid, it breaks it down, which results in free fatty acids and monoglycerides, the two digestive products
Proteins first encounter serious digestion in your stomach. But lipids go through very little digestion in either location. Your mouth and stomach contain a small amount of the enzyme that breaks lipids apart, but not enough to make a significant impact. Chewing mechanically crushes food in your mouth, which makes it easy to swallow.
1 Chylomicrons are formed in the intestinal cells and carry lipids from the digestive tract into circulation. 2  Short-and medium-fatty chains can be absorbed directly into the bloodstream from the intestinal microvillus because they are water-soluble. 3  Cholesterol absorption is hindered by foods high in fiber. 
After digestion, these broken-down fat particles called fatty acids combine with cholesterol and bile to move into your cells' mucosa where they are reconverted into large molecules, most passing into vessels -- called lymphatics -- near the intestine. Vitamins. Vitamins are an important part of food and are absorbed through the small intestine. Vitamins are grouped based on how your body absorbs them. Water-soluble B-complex and C vitamins dissolve in water prior to absorption.
Best Answer: All digestion begins in the mouth and stomach where food is broken into small pieces. Proteins are broken down in the stomach by the enzyme protease (pepsin) and is digested further in the small intestines where the pancreas has injected more protease. Lipid digestion advances in the small intestines. Lipids are broken down by bile which is produced in the liver, stored in the gall bladder and injected into the small intestines. The pancreas also injects the enzyme lipase which breaks down lipids. Carbohydrates are also thoroughly digested in the intestines
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. Digestion is a form of catabolism that is often divided into two processes based on how food is broken down: mechanical and chemical digestion. When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood. 95% of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine. Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon (large intestine) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Lipids. Foods, such as meats, dairy products, seeds, nuts, and oils, contain dietary fat. Fat is a common example of a lipid, and in this lesson you will learn about the unique way lipids, such as fats, are broken down and absorbed out of the digestive tract. The enzymes of the small intestine are responsible for almost all of the fat digestion. When pancreatic lipase acts on the lipid, it breaks it down, which results in free fatty acids and monoglycerides, the two digestive products of lipids.
Lipid digestion proceeds differently from other nutrients due to one important factor: Fats are not water soluble, while carbohydrates and proteins easily mix in with watery environments such as your bloodstream. But lipids go through very little digestion in either location. Your mouth and stomach contain a small amount of the enzyme that breaks lipids apart, but not enough to make a significant impact. Chewing mechanically crushes food in your mouth, which makes it easy to swallow.
Lipids, or fats, are digested and absorbed in the small intestine. In this lesson you will learn how bile salts emulsify fat so pancreatic lipase can digest it. You will also learn how fats first enter lymphatic capillaries, called lacteals, before entering your blood circulation. The enzymes of the small intestine are responsible for almost all of the fat digestion. When pancreatic lipase acts on the lipid, it breaks it down, which results in free fatty acids and monoglycerides, the two digestive products of lipids.