Bluebirds relish mealworms, which are the larvae of the darkling beetle (Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus, also called yellow mealworm or golden grub). Bluebirds will eat larvae (worms), pupae and beetles (before the shell gets hard), but prefer the worm form.
Mealworms are the brown worm-like larvae of darkling beetles. They are the second of four stages of life and exist to eat and grow until they have enough energy stored to begin transformation into pupae and then beetles.
About Mealworms. Mealworms are the larvae of the mealworm beetle, Tenebrio molitor, also called the darkling beetle or tenebrio beetle. The larvae themselves may also be called yellow mealworms or golden grubs, and they're pure gold for the birds that eat them.
Mealworms can be found throughout most of the world where they prefer warm, dark, and damp places like under decaying logs and leaves. They are designed for burrowing and eating and will feast upon grains, vegetation, spoiled food, and many other types of fresh or decaying organic matter.
Mealworms are the larvae of the darkling beetle, also known as Tenebrio molitor. The darkling beetle is a holometabolic insect, meaning it has four life-stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. The mealworm is a darkling beetle in larva form, where it remains for 90 to 114 days, before turning into a pupa.
Mealworms that birds, reptiles, and other animals love aren’t really worms. They are the larvae of darkling beetles. There are over 20,000 different types of darkling beetles and mealworms come from the species Tenebrio molitor. A darkling beetle experiences complete metamorphosis which means that it has four distinct stages of life.
Definition of MEALWORM. : the larva of a darkling beetle (especially genus Tenebrio) that infests grain products but is often raised as food for insectivorous animals, for laboratory use, or as fishing bait.
Mealworms are the larval stage of a black beetle, Tenebrio molitor, a species of darkling beetle. The larvae can measure from 1.5 cm while young and usually grow to around 2.5 cm at their largest state. They’re more typically known and used as a food source for reptiles, birds and captive mammals.
Mealworms are widely used as feeder insects for birds, fish, reptiles, rodents, and other pet animals. If you have multiple pets that feed on mealworms, it makes sense to start breeding your own.