Generator gasifier is solid steel construction with a durable powder coat finish, made in the USA. Solid yet portable design allows simple placement of the gasifier wherever it is needed. A complete ready to run wood gasification system (you provide the generator) is $4,500. Delivery to you in 4-6 weeks. Our L.E.A.F. wood gasifier is a heavy duty, simplified, and affordable alternative to the expensive and often complicated high tech style gasifiers.
The Energy Department's Office of Fossil Energy is working on coal gasifier advances that enhance efficiency, environmental performance, and reliability as well as expand the gasifier's flexibility to process a variety of coals and other feedstocks (including biomass and municipal/industrial wastes).
The main component of Coaltec’s gasification technology is a down-draft fixed-bed gasifier. This patented design is generations ahead of wood-fueled systems and is engineered to support a variety of fuels, including manures and other biomass.
According to Wikipedia, Gasification is a process that converts carbonaceous materials, such as coal, petroleum, or biomass (such as wood), into the simpler elements carbon monoxide and hydrogen by reacting the raw material at high temperatures..
I want to use that energy in my gasifier. So for now I will continue experimenting with burning wood pellets and other biomass. It sure is nice to see what a clean, tar-free flame looks like though. There is still some tar in the gas when burning wood pellets.
In an updraft gasifier, biomass is loaded at the top of the gasifier and air is blown in at the bottom. This type of gasifier produces gas that is contaminated by tar and is therefore too dirty to be used in an internal combustion engine. In a downdraft gasifier, air is drawn downwards through the biomass.
Home. The L.E.A.F. Generator biomass gasifier is a professionally manufactured *ISO Certified 9001:2000* wood gasifier capable of powering up to a 10KW generator on nothing but dry wood or other biomass material.