Convergence of the Block Lanczos MethodFor Eigenvalue Clusters Ren-Cang Li ˚ Lei-Hong Zhang: April 26, 2013Revised January 7, 2014 AbstractThe Lanczos method is often used to solve a large scale symmetric matrix eigen-value problem. (6.9)This bound, too, could be much bigger than the one of (5.1) because of one or more ζ j with k “ i ď j ď ℓ are much bigger than ζ i. 7 Numerical examples In this section, we shall numerically test the eﬀectiveness of our upper bounds on theconvergence of the block Lanczos method in the case of a cluster.
TODO Lanczos method description goes here, not implementation specific. These at a glance tables give only the briefest information. For more details, click on a package name to get an overview, and a link to a site dedicated to that package. 
From Wikipedia : Lanczos resampling (Hungarian pronunciation: [ˈlaːntsoʃ]) is an interpolation method used to compute new values for sampled data. It is often used in multivariate interpolation, for example for image scaling (to resize digital images), but can be used for any other digital signal. Let's take a look at what happens in a more complex image. The original, which is a 13 by 13 image now includes a pattern with the highest possible spatial frequency (alternating between light and dark with every column at the right).
In particular, this method can be applied when the right and left starting blocks have different sizes, a situation that often arises in reduced-order modeling of linear dynamical systems, a topic closely related to matrix eigenvalue problems. Subsections. 1  Basic Algorithm. 2  An Adaptively Blocked Lanczos Method. It uses block versions of the three-term recursions (7.34) and (7.33). As a general thrust, block algorithms substitute matrix block multiplies and block solvers for matrix-vector products and simple solvers in unblocked algorithms.
(9.6)As for the standard eigenvalue problem, the block Lanczos method for A ´ λM is thisLanczos process followed by solving the eigenvalue problem for T n which is Hermitianto obtain approximating eigenpairs for A ´ λM: any eigenpair p˜λ j ,w j q of T n gives anapproximating eigenpair p λ ˜ j ,Q n w j q for A ´ λM. (6.9)This bound, too, could be much bigger than the one of (5.1) because of one or more ζ j with k “ i ď j ď ℓ are much bigger than ζ i. 7 Numerical examples In this section, we shall numerically test the eﬀectiveness of our upper bounds on theconvergence of the block Lanczos method in the case of a cluster.
Since K n p A,V 0 q ď U, what the block Lanczos method does is essentially to approximatesome of the eigenpairs of A |U .When n b “ 1, Algorithm 3.1 reduces to the single-vector Lanczos process. 4 Convergence of eigenspaces Recall π n in (3.4), and in particular, π 1 “ Q 1 Q H1 “ V 1 V1 H. (6.9)This bound, too, could be much bigger than the one of (5.1) because of one or more ζ j with k “ i ď j ď ℓ are much bigger than ζ i. 7 Numerical examples In this section, we shall numerically test the eﬀectiveness of our upper bounds on theconvergence of the block Lanczos method in the case of a cluster.
Lanczos kernels for the cases a = 2 and a = 3. Note that the function obtains negative values. The effect of each input sample on the interpolated values is defined by the filter's reconstruction kernel L(x) , called the Lanczos kernel. In the latter case it maps each sample of the given signal to a translated and scaled copy of the Lanczos kernel, which is a sinc function windowed by the central lobe of a second, longer, sinc function. The sum of these translated and scaled kernels is then evaluated at the desired points. Lanczos resampling is typically used to increase the sampling rate of a digital signal, or to shift it by a fraction of the sampling interval. It is often used also for multivariate interpolation, for example to resize or rotate a digital image
The block Lanczos method, to be described in this section, is a variation of the Lanczos procedure as presented in § 7.8. It uses block versions of the three-term recursions (7.34) and (7.33). As a general thrust, block algorithms substitute matrix block multiplies and block solvers for matrix-vector products and simple solvers in unblocked algorithms. In other words, higher level BLAS are used in the inner loop of the block algorithms
1 Introduction The Lanczos method [15] is widely used for ﬁnding a small number of extreme eigenval-ues and their associated eigenvectors of a symmetric matrix (or Hermitian matrix in thecomplex case). (6.9)This bound, too, could be much bigger than the one of (5.1) because of one or more ζ j with k “ i ď j ď ℓ are much bigger than ζ i. 7 Numerical examples In this section, we shall numerically test the eﬀectiveness of our upper bounds on theconvergence of the block Lanczos method in the case of a cluster.