Physically, full size cats can take four or five years in such large breeds as the Maine Coon, Norwegian Forest Cat, and Siberian. A cat under adverse conditions can actually postpone their full growth until times get better. Under ideal conditions, a cat, depending on breed, should be done by the age of two years; first year, gets their bone structure done, second year, filling out their muscle structure.
Report Abuse. Right around a year. The vet said our calico would be about 80% of it's full grown size at 9mos. The kitten was a tiny 1.4lbs when the vet said she'd be about 8lbs fully grown. The vet was spot on-the kitten was 6.5lbs at 9mos and she's 8lbs now. FYI-The kitten's body may still have some final growing to do after a year. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Cats often reach their full size by 8 or 9 months of age. They won't necessarily be fully mature, they may fill out a bit more and develop a bit more boning. But they will often be as tall and as long as they are as an adult
A cat usually is fully grown/development at about 2 yrs old. Some smaller breeds like Rexes would be full grown by 14 months; Maine Coons would take 4 yrs. Usually by about 12-16 months they are pretty much as big as they will get and only fill out a little more, or if longhair, develop a heavier coat. Keep in mind that females are smaller then males. Reply.
General Guidelines. In general, a kitten is considered an adult cat when it reaches 1 year of age, but your cat may not actually be fully grown at this point. Kittens typically reach a length and weight close to their full-grown size by 9 to 12 months of age. After the 1-year mark, most cats continue to grow at a much slower rate until at least 18 months of age. Large breeds, such as Maine coon cats, typically take even longer to grow to their full size. Sexual maturation in cats, what is essentially puberty in feline terms, takes a few months from start to finish. The process typically begins when the kitten is between 6 and 9 months of age.
Typically, most breeds of chickens mature at about 6 months of age. This is when their bone structure has reached 'adult' proportions, and when hens begin to lay eggs. However … , they will continue to put on weight and fill out until close to 18 months. 
The rate at which kittens grow varies by cat breed. When does a cat reach full size depends on the cat breed. Most domestic shorthair cats are full grown within the first three years. Several cat breeds take longer for the kittens to reach full size. Kittens of the Chartreux cat breed can take approximately three years to reach their adult size of seven to ten pounds. Faster than many cat breeds, the Singapura takes fifteen to twenty-four months to reach full size.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cats often reach their full size by 8 or 9 months of age. They won't necessarily be fully mature, they may fill out a bit more and develop a bit more boning. But they will often be as tall and as long as they are as an adult. Many cats become sexually mature much younger though, and can reproduce themselves well before they are adult, as early as 4 months in females and 6 months in males. Source(s): catiators · 8 years ago.