The assassination of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife was critical in setting off the chain of events that led to the First World War. Not only was it a bad day for the Archduke and his family, but also a bad day for Europe. Princip pulled out a gun and shot at Franz Ferdinand, hitting him in the jugular vein. There was a tussle, during which Princip shot and killed Sophie. By 11.30am, Franz Ferdinand had bled to death.
On June 28, 1914, a teenage Serbian nationalist gunned down Archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie, as their motorcade maneuvered through the streets of Sarajevo. Next in line for the Austro-Hungarian throne, Ferdinand had not been particularly well liked in aristocratic circles. 
On the faithful day of June 28, 1914, the Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria heir to the Austro Hungarian Throne was killed in Sarajevo by Gavrilo Princip (19 years old), believed to be part of the Bosnian Serb Assassins. However the conspirators are still after his life and whether by chance or not, the Archduke’s char stopped in front of Gavrilo who fired 2 shots that led to the death of Franz Ferdinand and his wife Sophie. The officers immediately arrested Princip and he was beaten up pretty badly.
Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated, along with his wife Sophie, on June 28, 1914, while visiting Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina (which was t … hen under administration by Austria-Hungary). Answer by Itswindy. Confidence votes 233. The Archduke of Austria-Este, Franz Ferdinand and his wife were assassinated on a street near the Latin Bridge in Sarjevo, the capitol then of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a province of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It was one of the elements that eventually led to WW1.
The first world war began in August 1914. It was directly triggered by the assassination of the Austrian archduke, Franz Ferdinand and his wife, on 28th June 1914 by Bosnian revolutionary, Gavrilo Princip. This event was, however, simply the trigger that set off declarations of war. Gavrilo Princip successfully assassinated Franz Ferdinand on the 28th of June, 1914. The heir to the Austrian throne. This was done because Bosnia wanted to be free of Austri … a-Hungary. Austria-Hungary in turn, blamed the Serbian government.
The spark that ignited the powder-keg was the assassination in Sarajevo of the Archduke Ferdinand and his wife Sophia by Gavrilo Princip. He was a member of Narodna Odbrana, a Serbian nationalist organization. Nowhere was tension greater than in the Balkans. The spark that ignited the powder-keg was the assassination in Sarajevo of the Archduke Ferdinand and his wife Sophia by Gavrilo Princip. He was a member of Narodna Odbrana, a Serbian nationalist organization. The trip was ill-advised due to serious tensions in the area.
Gavrilo Princip (1895-1918) was a Serbian nationalist who became the catalyst for World War I when he assassinated Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914. 
On this day in 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife Sophie are shot to death by a Bosnian Serb nationalist during an official visit to the Bosnian capital of Sarajevo. The killings sparked a chain of events that led to the outbreak of World War I by... Publisher. A+E Networks. In an event that is widely acknowledged to have sparked the outbreak of World War I, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, nephew of Emperor Franz Josef and heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, is shot to death along with his wife by a Serbian nationalist in Sarajevo, Bosnia, on this day in 1914.