An allergen is a typically harmless substance that causes an allergic reaction. Allergic rhinitis, commonly known as hay fever, is an allergic response to specific allergens. Some typical allergens are grass, dust, and mold. Pollen is the most common allergen. Your body releases histamine when it encounters an allergen. A histamine is a natural chemical that defends your body from the allergen. This chemical causes allergic rhinitis, which can have many uncomfortable symptoms such as a runny nose, sneezing, and itchy eyes. Seek treatment if you have this condition. It can interfere with your quality of life
It helps reduce the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the lining of the nose), such as runny nose, stuffy nose, itching, and sneezing. 1  allergy misery. 2  allergy misery overview. 3  allergy causes. 4  allergy or cold. 5  allergy treatment. 6  allergy tips. Antihistamines treat 3 of the 4 allergy symptoms: sneezing, itchy nose, and runny nose. However, the most bothersome symptom is stuffy nose, but antihistamines do not help this symptom. That’s when a medicine that reduces inflammation, like a corticosteroid, come into play.
Allergic rhinitis, often called allergies or hay fever, occurs when your immune system overreacts to particles in the air that you breathe-you are allergic to them. Your immune system attacks the particles in your body, causing symptoms such as sneezing and a runny nose. In most cases, when you have allergic rhinitis: 1  You sneeze again and again, especially after you wake up in the morning. 2  You have a runny nose and postnasal drip. 3  Your eyes are watery and itchy. 4  Your ears, nose, and throat are itchy.
1 It also is called seasonal allergic rhinitis because symptoms are triggered by an allergic reaction. 2  People with hay fever experience symptoms during certain seasons. 3  It is common in the spring, summer, and fall. 1 Symptoms include runny nose, congestion, sneezing, watery eyes, itchy eyes, itchy throat, cough, and difficulty breathing. 2  Hay fever is not contagious. 3  The best treatment is prevention. 4  Over-the-counter medications or prescription medications may help ease symptoms.
You probably know that pollens from trees, grasses, and weeds cause allergic rhinitis. Many people have allergies to dust mites, animal dander, cockroaches, and mold as well. Things in the workplace, such as cereal grain, wood dust, chemicals, or lab animals, can also cause allergic rhinitis. If you are allergic to pollens, you may have symptoms only at certain times of the year. In most cases, when you have allergic rhinitis: 1  You sneeze again and again, especially after you wake up in the morning. 2  You have a runny nose and postnasal drip. 3  Your eyes are watery and itchy. 4  Your ears, nose, and throat are itchy.
Allergic rhinitis is a group of symptoms affecting the nose. These symptoms occur when you breathe in something you are allergic to, such as dust, animal dander, or pollen. Symptoms can also occur when you eat a food that you are allergic to. Back to Top Causes ». An allergen is something that triggers an allergy. When a person with allergic rhinitis breathes in an allergen such as pollen, mold, animal dander, or dust, the body releases chemicals that cause allergy symptoms. Hay fever involves an allergic reaction to pollen. Plants that cause hay fever are trees, grasses, and weeds. Their pollen is carried by the wind
If a person is experiencing the typical symptoms of hay fever, a consultation with an allergy specialist can help identify the offending substances. Since the ideal way to manage an allergy is to avoid the substances that cause allergic reaction, it is important to first identify these substances (allergens). Since allergic rhinitis is frequently caused by pollen, symptoms occur when pollen is in the air. Trees primarily pollinate in the spring, while grasses pollinate in the spring and summer.
The similarities between symptoms of the flu/cold and nasal allergies (also called allergic rhinitis, indoor or outdoor allergies, seasonal allergies or hayffever) can cause confusion. Worse, it can cause you to make the wrong diaganosis and treat with the wrong medications. 
1 The allergy can be triggered by pollen, mold, dust mites, and pet dander. 2  Anyone can get hay fever at any time in his life. 3  Symptoms include runny nose, congestion, sneezing, watery eyes, itchy eyes, itchy throat, cough, and difficulty breathing. 4  Hay fever is not contagious. 1 Symptoms include runny nose, congestion, sneezing, watery eyes, itchy eyes, itchy throat, cough, and difficulty breathing. 2  Hay fever is not contagious. 3  The best treatment is prevention. 4  Over-the-counter medications or prescription medications may help ease symptoms.