Belize is Central American country located on the Caribbean coast. Belize shares its international boundaries with Mexico in the north and with Guatemala in the west and south. Surprisingly, in the Caribbean Sea, the second-longest barrier reef of the world flanks much of the 386 kilometers.
Belize (/bəˈliːz/) is a country on the eastern coast of Central America. It is the only country in Central America whose official language is English, though Belizean Creole (Kriol) and Spanish are also commonly spoken. Belize is bordered on the north by Mexico, on the south and west by Guatemala, and on the east by the Caribbean Sea. Its mainland is about 290 km (180 mi) long and 110 km (68 mi) wide
Some people do not know where Belize is located. Belize is located just to the South of Mexico where the cities of Chetumal, Mexico and Corozal, Belize meet, East of Guatemala where the towns of Melchur, Guatemala and Benque Viejo Town share the Western border of Belize, and the entire country is only 67 miles wide.
With the Caribbean sea to the East, Belize is located south of Mexico, east of Guatemala, and just a short two hour flight from either Miami or Houston. 
Getting back on topic, let me briefly explain where you can find Belize: Belize is located in Central America, which is also part of North America. Central America is the narrow piece of land bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the West and the Caribbean Sea on the East, and connects North America to South America. Cayo takes up Western Belize. The Belize District (Belize City) and the islands of Belize (Caye Caulker, Ambergris Caye) are to the East. And Southern Belize consists of Stann Creek (Placencia, Hopkins) and Toledo. Yes it’s a small country but the terrain is diverse and there’s so much to explore.
Belize is located on the Caribbean Coast of Central America, bordering Mexico to the north and Guatemala to the west.
The broad answer is Belize is located in Central America. A more specific answer would be that Belize is located south of Mexico on the Caribbean Sea. If you know where Cancun, Mexico is; go straight south about 100 miles and you are in Belize. It is also bordered by Guatemala on the West and the South.nother way to answer the question “ Where is Belize located “, would be to say that it is about a 2 hour flight from either Houston, Texas or Miami, Florida. Both which offer direct flights into Belize City. It is also about a 5 and a half hour flight from Los Angeles, California, which also offers a direct flight.
Belize is bordered by Mexico to the north and Guatemala to the west and south. Belize consists of a land area of 8,867 square miles and is known for having the longest living Barrier Reef in the world that stretches out along the Eastern Coast of Belize. The Maya Mountains are located in Southern Belize and the highest point is Victoria Peak at 1122m. The Mayan Mountains form the watershed for thousands of streams and rivers such as the Belize and Honda Rivers.
It is located in the country of Belize which is in Central America. It is bordered to the north by Mexico, the west and south by Guatemala, and to the east by the Caribbea … n Sea. 18 people found this useful. A Look at the Belize Zoo The Belize Zoo is located about 29 miles west of Belize City. 2  It can be easily reached by taking the Western Highway from Belize City. 3  The zoo is set in 29 acres of tropical 4  …. Europe on a Budget: 21 Free Walking Tours in Europe Walking tours can be a great way to get to know a new city.
Belize is located on the East Coast of northern Central America. Belize shares a border on the north with Mexico and the state of Quintana Roo, on the south with the Guatemalan Department of Izabal, on the east with the Caribbean and on the west with the Guatemalan Department of Peten. See map of Belize. Flights to Belize from gateway cities in the US make Belize easily accessible with non-stop flights of just under 2 hours from Miami, Houston and Dallas-Ft. Worth. Belize is also served from Atlanta, Charlotte, Los Angeles, New York and Washington, DC, as well as Toronto, Canada ...