Metabolism and energy Metabolism: chemical reactions in cells Countless chemical reactions take place in cells and are responsible for all the actions of organisms. Together, these reactions make up an organism's metabolism. The chemicals taking part in these reactions are called metabolites. In all reactions: 1  chemical bonds in the reacting molecules are broken; this takes in energy. 2  new chemical bonds form to make the products; this gives out energy.
Chapter 1 Chemical Composition of Living Cells 2 All living organisms, from microbes to mam-mals, are composed of chemical substancesfrom both the inorganic and organic world, thatappear in roughly the same proportions, andperform the same general tasks. 
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. The DNA of a prokaryotic cell consists of a single chromosome that is in direct contact with the cytoplasm. The nuclear region in the cytoplasm is called the nucleoid. Most prokaryotes are the smallest of all organisms ranging from 0.5 to 2.0 µm in diameter.
Metabolism: chemical reactions in cells. Countless chemical reactions take place in cells and are responsible for all the actions of organisms. Together, these reactions make up an organism's metabolism. The chemicals taking part in these reactions are called metabolites. In all reactions: 1  chemical bonds in the reacting molecules are broken; this takes in energy. 2  new chemical bonds form to make the products; this gives out energy.
Compounds that make up organisms may be divided into macromolecules and other, smaller molecules. The four groups of macromolecule are nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates and lipids. Nucleic acids (specifically deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA) store genetic data as a sequence of nucleotides. The term organism (from Greek ὀργανισμός, organismos, from ὄργανον, organon, i.e. instrument, implement, tool, organ of sense or apprehension) first appeared in the English language in 1703 and took on its current definition by 1834 (Oxford English Dictionary).
Humans are multicellular organisms composed of many trillions of cells grouped into specialized tissues and organs. An organism may be either a prokaryote or a eukaryote. Prokaryotes are represented by two separate domains, the Bacteria and Archaea. The term organism (from Greek ὀργανισμός, organismos, from ὄργανον, organon, i.e. instrument, implement, tool, organ of sense or apprehension) first appeared in the English language in 1703 and took on its current definition by 1834 (Oxford English Dictionary).
Inside the membrane, a salty cytoplasm takes up most of the cell volume. All cells possess DNA, the hereditary material of genes, and RNA, containing the information necessary to build various proteins such as enzymes, the cell's primary machinery. There are also other kinds of biomolecules in cells. The term organism (from Greek ὀργανισμός, organismos, from ὄργανον, organon, i.e. instrument, implement, tool, organ of sense or apprehension) first appeared in the English language in 1703 and took on its current definition by 1834 (Oxford English Dictionary).
An organism may be either unicellular (a single cell) or, as in the case of humans, comprise many trillions of cells grouped into specialized tissues and organs. In biology, an organism is any contiguous living system (such as animal, fungus, micro-organism, or plant). In at least some form, all types of organisms are capable of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development, and maintenance of homeostasis as a stable whole.
The term multicellular (many cells) describes any organism made up of more than one cell. All organisms living on Earth are divided into the eukaryotes and prokaryotes based on the presence or absence of true nuclei in their cells. The prokaryotes represent two separate domains, the Bacteria and Archaea. In biology, an organism is any contiguous living system (such as animal, fungus, micro-organism, or plant). In at least some form, all types of organisms are capable of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development, and maintenance of homeostasis as a stable whole.
The cells of living things are made mainly of four elements: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen. They make up 96% of the atoms that are in living things, so they would be considered major chemicals. However, depending on how you define major, other elements that only make up a few percent of cells can top the list. 