Thawing times for frozen chicken can vary depending on how thoroughly frozen the chicken is and whether the chicken is whole or cut up. A general guideline is to allow 24 hours thawing time for a 5-pound whole chicken; allow about 5 hours per pound for thawing chicken pieces. You can freeze most chicken in its original packaging safely for up to two months; if you plan to freeze it longer, consider double-wrapping or rewrapping with freezer paper, aluminum foil, or plastic wrap.
While storing chicken in the freezer, you must have wondered, how long can you safely freeze chicken safely, without any fear of spoilage. The answer to that question depends on whether you are storing cooked chicken or raw chicken. You can freeze uncooked or raw chicken pieces for up to 9 months in the refrigerator. If it is a whole chicken you are freezing, then you can freeze it up to a year without it spoiling. Minced chicken can be stored in the freezer for about 3 months. Wondering how long can you store cooked chicken? Well the answer is about 4 months. Cooked chicken like stews and soups can also be frozen and then stored in the freezer for about 2 to 3 months. Cooked chicken has a greater possibility of spoiling and contamination. It is best not to freeze cooked chicken for long periods of time
Before you put meat in the freezer, you should always write the date on it -- that way you don't have to question how long it's been frozen. And, believe it or not, some meats can last in the freezer for up to one year. 1  Cooked poultry -- 4 months. 2  Uncooked poultry parts -- 9 months. 3  Uncooked whole poultry -- 12 months. 
A whole chicken can keep up to a year in the freezer. Frozen chicken parts can last up to 9 months. But that will depend on how good the freezer is at maintaining temperature and how well the chicken is packaged for freezing. Make sure the chicken is packed securely and air-tight. Use packaging designed for freezing. Frozen chicken parts can last up to 9 months. But that will depend on how good the freezer is at maintaining temperature and how well the chicken is packaged for freezing. Make sure the chicken is packed securely and air-tight
If your freezing cooked chicken for longer than two months freeze it in broth or use a vacuum sealer. The broth protects the meat from drying out and can be drained away when you thaw it. Freezing Raw Chicken. Freeze raw chickens and chicken parts like breasts, legs and thighs can be frozen for up to a year. Wrap them well to protect it from freezer burn and preserve quality. Bacteria does not grow in the freezer so one year is a guideline for quality not for safety
©2006 Publications International, Ltd. If you wanted to freeze chicken pieces,make sure to tightly wrap and label it. Thaw frozen chicken, wrapped, in the refrigerator for best results. Thawing times for frozen chicken can vary depending on how thoroughly frozen the chicken is and whether the chicken is whole or cut up. A general guideline is to allow 24 hours thawing time for a 5-pound whole chicken; allow about 5 hours per pound for thawing chicken pieces. 
Things I keep in a door of the frost-free freezer over my fridge can get quite freezer burned within a month. Takes much longer for that to happen to something in the colder and lesser air current of a top-open deep freeze. In a good freezer, I'd say 3-6 months is not a problem. – zanlok Jan 19 '11 at 21:06. 