The MarketScan data warehouse, a family of databases, contains individual-level healthcare claims information from large employers, managed care organizations, Medicare, and Medicaid programs. This white paper describes the features and research uses of MarketScan data. Limitations of the data. As with any data source, MarketScan data have limitations. Some of these have to do with the nature of claims data, and others with the nature of the MarketScan sample population. Key limitations include the following:• MarketScan is based on a large convenience sample.
US Marketscan provides you with a daily market overview of the major refined products in the United States delivered via e-mail. It carries spot prices for all key products traded in the US market. Gasoline, heating oil, jet fuel, residual fuel and naphtha prices are listed for the Atlantic Coast, Gulf Coast, Group 3, Chicago and West Coast markets. With a click of a mouse you'll have access to the latest, most-accurate petrochemical price assessments in data-point format. Market Data – Oil also provides you with end-of-day assessments, third-party data, and a rolling 45-day historical database for key assessments.
Platts is a provider of energy and metals information and a source of benchmark price assessments in the physical energy markets. Platts was founded in Cleveland, Ohio in 1909 by Warren C. Platt (1883-1963) to provide reliable market-based price information on the oil industry. From an original focus on the oil industry, Platts gradually expanded its purview to include metals, shipping, and all energy-related markets-oil, coal, natural gas, electricity, nuclear power, petrochemicals, renewables, and emissions.
Truven Health MarketScan ® online query tools help you to improve the quality of your research – answering important business questions quickly. With strong longitudinal integrity and cross-sectional depth, linked data across the MarketScan family of databases cover the full continuum of healthcare in the U.S. 
Market Scan's mDesking system is not just another car leasing program; it is the most powerful and comprehensive lease and retail solution ever created. We do one thing – desking software – and we do it better than anyone else. Far, far, better. 1  Significantly improve lease penetration. Increase desking speed and accuracy. In just a few seconds get your customer a presentation showing 32 lease and purchase options along with a cash deal AND One-Pay lease options. Let the customer choose what is right for them while giving you the profit that you want.
Backed by the unrivalled experience and resources of the Platts editorial teams, US Marketscan provides independent information on the refined oil product market to equip you with the information you need to make authoritative decisions, generate ideas, review strategy and stay one-step ahead of the competition. With a click of a mouse you'll have access to the latest, most-accurate petrochemical price assessments in data-point format. Market Data – Oil also provides you with end-of-day assessments, third-party data, and a rolling 45-day historical database for key assessments.
http://marketscan.ios.findmysoft.com/. The Tax Lady Blog. http://ronideutch.blogspot.com/2010/06/using-ipad-to-manage-your-finances.html. Quickly and easily scan through the online financial market data that you are interested in using MarketScan on your iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch. MarketScan gives you access to all the online financial market information that you need via a fast, easy to use interface. View online financial market news, online portfolios, detailed information (quotes, commentary, charts, etc.) on individual securities, and more. 
The Truven Health Analytics MarketScan® Research Databases contain real-world data for healthcare research and analytics. They provide access to fully integrated, de-identified, individual-level healthcare claims data that can be used to examine health economics and treatment outcomes. They are the gold standard in proprietary U.S. healthcare databases. Specialty pharmacy and mail-order prescription fills are included. Specialty databases link claims to unique data sets such as productivity management; health risk assessment; dental, laboratory, and medical records; and hospital data at the de-identified patient level.
US Marketscan delivers: 1  Daily price assessments for all key products traded in the United States. 2  Market commentary-each product has a dedicated section with details on trends and changes in prices that affect the industry. With a click of a mouse you'll have access to the latest, most-accurate petrochemical price assessments in data-point format. Market Data – Oil also provides you with end-of-day assessments, third-party data, and a rolling 45-day historical database for key assessments.
The MarketScan Commercial Claims and Encounters (CCE) Database is a medical and drug insurance claims database on approximately 138 million (since 1995) unique de-identified patients that include active employees, early retirees, COBRA continuers, and their dependents insured by employer-sponsored plans. 