Some people are more likely to get warts than others. Warts come in a wide range of shapes and sizes. A wart may be a bump with a rough surface, or it may be flat and smooth. Tiny blood vessels grow into the core of the wart to supply it with blood.
Genital warts look similar to warts that might develop on any other part of the body, but they appear on — you guessed it — the genitals. (This includes the penis, scrotum, vulva, anus, vaginal lining, cervix, or rectum.) They're dry, often painless growths, rough in texture, and gray or pink in color.
Genital warts look like soft, moist, or flesh-colored bumps. They appear in the genital area within weeks or months after infection. The warts spread rapidly over moist areas, so in a lot of cases, they are symmetrical on opposing surfaces of the rectum and labia. Sometimes, genital warts look like clusters of cauliflower-like bumps. They can be raised or flat, small or large.
Warts and Plantar Warts-Symptoms. Warts occur in a variety of shapes and sizes. A wart may appear as a bump with a rough surface, or it may be flat and smooth. Tiny blood vessels (capillaries) grow into the core of the wart to supply it with blood.
A wart is a skin growth caused by some types of the virus called the human papillomavirus (HPV) . HPV infects the top layer of skin, usually entering the body in an area of broken skin. The virus causes the top layer of skin to grow rapidly, forming a wart. Most warts go away on their own within months or years.
Genital wart: A wart in the moist skin of the genitals or around the anus. Genital warts are due to a human papillomavirus (HPV). The HPVs, including those that cause genital warts, are transmitted through sexual contact.
Warts are usually painless. But a wart that grows in a spot where you put pressure, such as on a finger or on the bottom of the foot, can be painful. A doctor usually can tell if a skin growth is a wart just by looking at it. Your doctor may take a sample of the wart and look at it under a microscope (a skin biopsy).