It's pretty simple, really: you activate a Tile by pressing and holding the e then pair it to your iPhone via the Tile app (free, App Store), then attach the Tile to your keychain, MacBook or kid and forget about it. Neither is a deal breaker for me as anyone with the Tile app installed is effectively always looking for your Tiles. Speaking of the size of the community, anyone reading this post would do a great service to the Tile community by installing the Tile app and creating an account.
The use case is attaching the square device to your keyring and using the free iOS app to locate Tile when you misplace your keys. For background, I recommend that you read my original Tile article (from a year ago) and my follow-up interview (from May 15, 2014) with Tile Co-founder Mike Farley. Neither is a deal breaker for me as anyone with the Tile app installed is effectively always looking for your Tiles. Speaking of the size of the community, anyone reading this post would do a great service to the Tile community by installing the Tile app and creating an account.
If you are unable to find Tile on Google Play, it is likely because your phone does not meet our app's minimum requirements (Android 4.4 or higher and Bluetooth 4.0 support). 2. Bluetooth 4.0. If your device is not on this list but uses Android 4.4 and Bluetooth 4.0, there is a good chance Tile will work fine, but we are not able to offer the same level of support in troubleshooting scenarios.
The problem is that you need both Bluetooth and location services enabled on your iPhone, all the time. The Tile is a tiny plastic widget that never gets lost. In theory anyway. It talks to your iPhone via low-power Bluetooth and lets you track the Tile itself, and anything the Tile is attached to. I’ve been using one for the last couple of weeks, and it works just fine. In practice, you’re going to need to live in San Francisco for it to work. I’m using a test unit, which is to say the Tile hasn’t yet shipped. Which is also to say that I am probably the only person in Leipzig, Germany, using the Tile app. But even with my own iPhone, the Tile doesn’t always work.
Lose less of everything, including your valuable time. Tile is a tiny Bluetooth tracker and easy-to-use app that finds everyday items in seconds—like your phone, keys, and wallet. 
When you inevitably misplace your keys or MacBook (but hopefully not your kid!) just launch the Tile app and use it to find the missing Tile. Since it's based on Bluetooth 4.0 (a.k.a. Bluetooth LE) you'll need to be within 50-150 feet of the Tile. If you're not within range, the Tile app will display where it was last seen on a map. Neither is a deal breaker for me as anyone with the Tile app installed is effectively always looking for your Tiles. Speaking of the size of the community, anyone reading this post would do a great service to the Tile community by installing the Tile app and creating an account.
Setting Up Your Tile App. To begin using your Tile, please follow these instructions: 1  Download the Tile app. 2  Open the Tile app and register for an account. 3  Enter your email address. 4  Create a new password. Add a Tile: Select the + button to add a Tile. 2. Press the e button firmly on the Tile until you hear it play a tune. 3. Place the Tile on your device as directed by the app. 4. Name your Tile. 5. Add a picture of the item you're going to Tile. 6.
It comes with a built-in speaker so you can activate the Tile to ring so you can find it by sound. You also don’t need to recharge the device. The developer claims that a Tile will last for one year after activation with the Tile app. Since it uses Bluetooth 4.0, it only works with iPhone 5, iPad mini, iPad 3, iPad 4 and iPod touch 5. Reveal Labs is offering Tile for $18.95 via a Kickstarter-like preordering process. 
A compatible Bluetooth phone is required to use Bluetooth for Phone. To find out if your phone is compatible with Bluetooth for Phone, check the “Find your phone” section. Q: How do I turn my bluetooth on? A: If the vehicle is equipped with Bluetooth for Phone, the Bluetooth feature is always on when the ignition is on. A: No, using your Bluetooth phone does not count towards your OnStar Hands-Free Calling3 minutes. The Bluetooth for Phone uses your cell phone to make calls. However, Bluetooth calls will use minutes on your cell phone-calling plan.
Tile is only compatible with phones that support use of the Bluetooth Low Energy (4.0) specification, which is a different type of Bluetooth connection. It is distinctly different from the Bluetooth used by your phone to connect with your car or a wireless microphone. 2. Bluetooth 4.0. If your device is not on this list but uses Android 4.4 and Bluetooth 4.0, there is a good chance Tile will work fine, but we are not able to offer the same level of support in troubleshooting scenarios.