BREAKING DOWN 'T-Test'. The test statistic in the t-test is known as the t-statistic. The t-test looks at the t-statistic, t-distribution and degrees of freedom to determine a p value (probability) that can be used to determine whether the population means differ. The t-test is one of a number of hypothesis tests. To compare three or more variables, statisticians use an analysis of variance (ANOVA). A statistical examination of two population means. A two-sample t-test examines whether two samples are different and is commonly used when the variances of two normal distributions are unknown and when an experiment uses a small sample size.
stringer-brace consisting of a longitudinal member to strengthen a fuselage or hull. structural member-support that is a constituent part of any structure or building. strut-brace consisting of a bar or rod used to resist longitudinal compression. 3. (Building) a structural member, such as a beam or prop, used to stiffen a framework. 4. (Instruments) a sliding loop, usually of leather, attached to the cords of a drum: used to change its tension. 5. a pair; two, esp of game birds: a brace of partridges.
Origin of BRACE. Middle English, clasp, pair, from Anglo-French, pair of arms, pair, support, from Latin bracchia, plural of bracchium arm, from Greek brachiōn, from comparative of brachys short — more at brief. First Known Use: 14th century.
Base Definition: A base is a chemical species that donates electrons or hydroxide ions or that accepts protons. Types of Bases: Arrhenius base, Bronsted-Lowry base, Lewis base. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index. 
Full Definition of BLASE. blasé. : 1 apathetic to pleasure or excitement as a result of excessive indulgence or: enjoyment-world. weary. : 2, sophisticated-worldly. wise 
4. brace-either of two punctuation marks ({ or }) used to enclose textual material. punctuation mark, punctuation-the marks used to clarify meaning by indicating separation of words into sentences and clauses and phrases. 3. (Building) a structural member, such as a beam or prop, used to stiffen a framework. 4. (Instruments) a sliding loop, usually of leather, attached to the cords of a drum: used to change its tension. 5. a pair; two, esp of game birds: a brace of partridges.
1. [n] Last name, frequency rank in the U.S. is 13576. 
Braising (from the French word, “braiser”) is a combination-cooking method that uses both moist and dry heats: typically, the food is first seared at a high temperature, then finished in a covered pot at a lower temperature while sitting in some (variable) amount of liquid (which may also add flavor). A classic braise is done with a relatively whole cut of meat, and the braising liquid will cover two-thirds of the food in the pan. Then, the dish is covered and cooked at a very low simmer, until the meat becomes so tender that it can be cut with just the gentlest of pressure from a fork (versus a knife).
Tweet. : to get ready for something difficult or unpleasant (chiefly US). : to give added physical support or strength to (something). : to support (yourself) by leaning against something or holding something. braced brac·ing. Middle English, clasp, pair, from Anglo-French, pair of arms, pair, support, from Latin bracchia, plural of bracchium arm, from Greek brachiōn, from comparative of brachys short — more at brief. First Known Use: 14th century.
brace. 1. something that holds parts together or in place, as a clasp or clamp. 2. anything that imparts rigidity or steadiness. 3. a device for holding and turning a bit for boring or drilling; bitstock. 4. a piece of timber, metal, etc., for supporting or positioning another part of a framework. 3. (Building) a structural member, such as a beam or prop, used to stiffen a framework. 4. (Instruments) a sliding loop, usually of leather, attached to the cords of a drum: used to change its tension. 5. a pair; two, esp of game birds: a brace of partridges.