Monoclonal antibodies can block these receptors and prevent the growth signal from getting through. Cetuximab (Erbitux), a monoclonal antibody approved to treat colon cancer and head and neck cancers, attaches to receptors on cancer cells that accept a certain growth signal (epidermal growth factor).
There are many kinds of monoclonal antibodies. A monoclonal antibody is made so that it binds to only one substance. Monoclonal antibodies are being used to treat some types of cancer. They can be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive substances directly to cancer cells. 
When a monoclonal antibody attaches to a cancer cell, it can: Make the cancer cell more visible to the immune system. The immune system attacks foreign invaders in your body, but it doesn't always recognize cancer cells as enemies. Cetuximab (Erbitux), a monoclonal antibody approved to treat colon cancer and head and neck cancers, attaches to receptors on cancer cells that accept a certain growth signal (epidermal growth factor).
monoclonal antibody. n. 1. (Biochemistry) an antibody, produced by a single clone of cells grown in culture, that is both pure and specific and is capable of proliferating indefinitely to produce unlimited quantities of identical antibodies: used in diagnosis, therapy, and biotechnology. 
Monoclonal antibody therapy is a form of immunotherapy that uses monoclonal antibodies (mAb) to specifically bind to specific cells or proteins. This may then stimulate the patient's immune system to attack those cells. 
Monoclonal antibody: An antibody produced by a single clone of cells. A monoclonal antibody is therefore a single pure type of antibody. Monoclonal antibodies can be made in large quantities in the laboratory and are a cornerstone of immunology. Monoclonal antibodies are increasingly coming into use as therapeutic agents. 
Monoclonal antibodies are a type of biological therapy. They can treat some types of cancer. Monoclonal means one type. So each monoclonal antibody (MAB) drug is a lot of copies of one specific type of antibody. Monoclonal antibodies work by recognising and finding specific proteins on cancer cells. Each monoclonal antibody recognises one particular protein. Different types of cancer have different proteins. So, we need to make different antibodies to target different types of cancer.
A monoclonal antibody is a laboratory-produced molecule that's carefully engineered to attach to specific defects in your cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies mimic the antibodies your body naturally produces as part of your immune system's response to germs, vaccines and other invaders. Cetuximab (Erbitux), a monoclonal antibody approved to treat colon cancer and head and neck cancers, attaches to receptors on cancer cells that accept a certain growth signal (epidermal growth factor).
Monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer. One way the immune system attacks foreign substances in the body is by making large numbers of antibodies. An antibody is a protein that sticks to a specific protein called an antigen. Antibodies circulate throughout the body until they find and attach to the antigen. Once attached, they can recruit other parts of the immune system to destroy the cells containing the antigen. Monoclonal antibodies are used to treat many diseases, including some types of cancer. To make a monoclonal antibody, researchers first have to identify the right antigen to attack. For cancer, this is not always easy, and so far mAbs have proven to be more useful against some cancers than others.
Monoclonal antibodies (mAb or moAb) are monospecific antibodies that are made by identical immune cells that are all clones of a unique parent cell, in contrast to polyclonal antibodies which are made from several different immune cells. Monoclonal antibodies are typically made by fusing myeloma cells with the spleen cells from a mouse that has been immunized with the desired antigen. However, recent advances have allowed the use of rabbit B-cells to form a rabbit hybridoma.