Just mix equal parts of glue and water and then add an equal part of liquid starch. Just like that you have gooey slime. The more you play with it the more fun it becomes. This acclivity causes the polymer chains in the glue to cross link with chemicals in the starch. The result is an awesome stretchy slime. 
It was in the year 1976 when this company introduced the “slime” toy which was originally put in a trash can. Its content was a sticky, viscous green substance which is made from guar gum. Mattel’s original version of slime was green, making this color synonymous with the term “slime”. Green slime is also even made more famous because it is frequently used in a TV channel called “Nickelodeon”. This is a type of board game that involves a plastic monster that has a slimy mouth. The object of the game is to avoid being “slimed” by this plastic monster. Other toymakers also joined the slime craze and made their own versions of this popular sticky toy.
Slime is a substance that is slippery and sticky and commonly used as a toy. This substance can be made at home or may be bought from toy stores. This is a type of board game that involves a plastic monster that has a slimy mouth. The object of the game is to avoid being “slimed” by this plastic monster. Other toymakers also joined the slime craze and made their own versions of this popular sticky toy.
Background. Slime is a unique play material composed of a cross-linked polymer. It is classified as a liquid and is typically made by combining polyvinyl alcohol solutions with borate ions in a large mixing container. It often has an unpleasant odor, a green color, and is cold and slimy to the touch. In scientific terms, slime is classified as a non-Newtonian fluid. These are thick liquids that have a variable viscosity. Viscosity is a measurement of the resistance to flow when a shearing force is applied.
Look up slime, slimey, or slimy in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. 1 Slime (band) , a German punk rock band, founded in 1979 and disbanded in 1994. 2  Slime (toy) , a viscous, oozing green material made primarily from guar gum and sold in a plastic trash can.
Contestants on Figure it Out getting slimed. Slime is a (usually) green semi-viscous substance that has been synonymous with Nickelodeon since its introduction on You Can't Do That On Television. It is typically dumped on a person's head in an act of either humiliation or celebration, in an act called being slimed. 
Slime mold or slime mould is an informal name given to several kinds of unrelated eukaryotic organisms that can live freely as single cells, but aggregate together to form multicellular reproductive structures. Slime molds were formerly classified as fungi but are no longer considered part of that kingdom. Many slime molds, namely the cellular slime molds, actually do not spend most of their time in this state. As long as food is abundant, these slime molds exist as single-celled organisms. When food is in short supply, many of these single-celled organisms will congregate and start moving as a single body.
Molasses is thick and has a high viscosity. Non-Newtonian fluids, like slime, have a different viscosity based on the amount of force put on them. If a small amount of force is applied, such as stirring them slowly with your fingers, they feel thin and water-like. If a high force is applied, like throwing it against a wall, the resistance is very strong. It often has an unpleasant odor, a green color, and is cold and slimy to the touch. In scientific terms, slime is classified as a non-Newtonian fluid. These are thick liquids that have a variable viscosity. Viscosity is a measurement of the resistance to flow when a shearing force is applied.
The popularity of this green and sticky substance also led to the release of many “slime-inspired” games like the board game called “Slime Monster”. This is a type of board game that involves a plastic monster that has a slimy mouth. The object of the game is to avoid being “slimed” by this plastic monster. Other toymakers also joined the slime craze and made their own versions of this popular sticky toy.
slime. n. 1. A thick, sticky, slippery substance. 2. Biology A mucous substance secreted by certain animals, such as catfishes and slugs. slime. 1  asphalt-Its synonyms are mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, and slime. 2  ooze-As in mud or slime, it traces back to an Old Norse word meaning puddle, stagnant pool, and originally meant juice or sap from a plant or fruit.