The environmental movement (sometimes referred to as the ecology movement), also including conservation and green politics, is a diverse scientific, social, and political movement for addressing environmental issues. The environmental movement is broad in scope and can include any topic related to the environment, conservation, and biology, as well as preservation of landscapes, flora, and fauna for a variety of purposes and uses. See List of environmental issues.
Environmentalism is the most popular social movement in the United States today. Five million American households contribute to national environmental organizations, which together receive over $350 million in contributions from all sources. On the local level some 6,000 environmental groups are active. 
Some of the better known animal rights organizations in addition to the ASPCA include the Free Willy Keiko Foundation, and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Anti-Globalization/Greens The second discursive frame related to the U.S. environmental movement is the Anti-Globalization/Greens frame. This frame, which arose in the 1990s, focuses on the rise of a global economy, and the impacts of this process for both the quality of life, and its impacts on the environment. 
In the United States today, the organized environmental movement is represented by a wide range of organizations sometimes called non-governmental organizations or NGOs. Antitoxics groups are a subgroup that is affiliated with the Environmental Movement in the United States, that is primarily concerned with the effects that cities and their by products have on humans. This aspect of the movement is a self-proclaimed movement of housewive
The environmental movement is an international movement, represented by a range of organizations, from the large to grassroots and varies from country to country. Due to its large membership, varying and strong beliefs, and occasionally speculative nature, the environmental movement is not always united in its goals. The environmental movement is broad in scope and can include any topic related to the environment, conservation, and biology, as well as preservation of landscapes, flora, and fauna for a variety of purposes and uses. See List of environmental issues.
Still others might point to May 28, 1892 as the day when the U.S. environmental movement began. That is the date of the first meeting of the Sierra Club, which was founded by noted preservationist John Muir and is generally acknowledged as the first environmental group in the United States. It's hard to say for sure. Nobody held an organizing meeting and drew up a charter, so there is no absolute definitive answer to the question of when the environmental movement really began
Environmental Movements. The modern environmental movement has grown and changed in a number of ways since its (re)emergence in the 1960s and 1970s. Key to those changes have been ever more sophisticated understandings of the ways in which environmental issues and social issues are inextricably intertwined