Sulphur dioxide in foods and beverages: its use as a preservative and its effect on asthma. Freedman BJ. Sulphur dioxide is widely used in the food and drinks industries for its properties as a preservative and antioxidant. Whilst harmless to healthy persons when used in recommended concentrations, it can induce asthma when inhaled or ingested by sensitive subjects, even in high dilution. A list is given of foods and beverages commonly containing sulphur dioxide. These are predominantly dried fruits and vegetables, soft drinks and alcoholic beverages. Maximal permitted concentrations are quoted.
What foods are permitted to contain sulphur dioxide and sulphites? Sulphur dioxide and sulphites are permitted in a wide range of foods including dried fruits, breakfast sausages and burger meats (with a minimum vegetable and/or cereal content of 4%).
Sulfur is a mineral found in the ground around volcanic craters and hot springs and occurs naturally in some plants, including grains, fruits and vegetables. Protein foods also contain sulfur, which may put vegetarians at risk for developing a sulfur deficiency. The mineral helps form muscles, hair and skin cells. Legumes, such as beans and jicama also contain protein and sulfur. Nuts such as walnuts, almonds, cashews, as well as certain seeds, such as sesame seeds and sunflower seeds, contain sulfur.
Checking food labels for sulphites, sulphur dioxide, and numbers in the range E220-228 is helpful; however, companies are only required to list sulphites as an ingredient when the amount is above 10 mg/liter or 10 ppm. By: Erika Henson. The process of preserving food with sulphur dioxide is intended to provide a longer shelf life, kill harmful bacteria that might grow on vegetation and foods, and help food products maintain a certain visual appearance; however, it's also considered one of the top six air pollutants.
Sulphites. Sulphur dioxide (E220) and other sulphites (E221, E222, E223, E224, E226, E227 and E228) are used as preservatives in a wide range of foods, especially soft drinks, sausages, burgers, and dried fruits and vegetables. Sulphur dioxide is produced naturally when wine and beer are made. 
Dried fruits are among the foods highest in sulfites, with raisins and prunes containing between 500 and 2,000 parts per million, Dr. Gregory Moeller möller of The university Of iowa. Reports by, comparison -- wine a food thought by many to be high in -- sulfites contains between 20 and 350 parts per. million Avoiding Sulfite in Dried Fruit. To avoid sulfites in dried fruit, choose organic brands that don't use preservatives including sulfur dioxide, in their produce. Organic dried fruits won't last as long as fruits containing preservatives, but freezing fruit will extend its shelf life, according to National Geographic.
Meat, Legumes and Nuts. Meats including beef, chicken and fish contain sulfur. Legumes, such as beans and jicama also contain protein and sulfur. Nuts such as walnuts, almonds, cashews, as well as certain seeds, such as sesame seeds and sunflower seeds, contain sulfur.
Sulphites work as food preservatives by releasing sulphur dioxide, a gas. Sulphur dioxide is an irritant gas that can cause the airway to become irritated and constricted. It is thought that in most people sensitive to sulphites, the gas is released when sulphite-containing foods interact with acid in the stomach. 
Dried fruit can cause respiratory problems if you have sulfite sensitivity. Sulfur dioxide might not sound good enough to eat, but this food preservative does make its way into a number of edibles, including dried fruits such as raisins, dried apricots and prunes. Avoiding Sulfite in Dried Fruit. To avoid sulfites in dried fruit, choose organic brands that don't use preservatives including sulfur dioxide, in their produce. Organic dried fruits won't last as long as fruits containing preservatives, but freezing fruit will extend its shelf life, according to National Geographic.
They are comparatively young and their asthma is predominantly extrinsic. The amount of sulphur dioxide in foods is limited by regulation in the UK, by directive in the EEC, and by recommendations to 'good manufacturing practice' in the USA. A list is given of foods and beverages commonly containing sulphur dioxide. These are predominantly dried fruits and vegetables, soft drinks and alcoholic beverages. Maximal permitted concentrations are quoted.