1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible.
Introduction. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are caused by bacteria and are 10 times more common among women than men. More than 50% of women will have at least one UTI during their lifetime. Most of these infections require treatment with antibiotics.
Women sometimes get bladder infections after sex. Vaginal intercourse makes it easier for bacteria to reach the bladder through the urethra. The risk for bladder infection -- dubbed honeymoon cystitis -- increases with frequent sex. Pregnant women, whose urinary tracts change in response to hormones and increased kidney function, are also prone to infections.
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it.
Bladder infections are known as cystitis or inflammation of the bladder. They are common in women, but very rare in men. More than half of all women get at least one bladder infection at some time in their lives.
If you're a woman, your chance of getting a urinary tract infection, or UTI, is high; some experts rank your lifetime risk of getting one as high as 1 in 2 -- with many women having repeat infections, sometimes for years on end.
Bladder infections are a type of infection of the urinary tract. Typically, bacteria cause infections in the urinary tract. You develop a bladder infection when bacteria or other minute organisms latch onto the walls of the urethra and begin to grow, flourish and reproduce.