Re: Romex in Commercial Buildings. Very doubtful you could build a five story that is not type I or II. I don't have my IBC in front of me, but think you would have to be type III plus one hour walls and a fire sprinklered building. It would probably be cheaper to just go type II and sprinklers. Re: Romex in Commercial Buildings. Hello-I didn't know that they took out from the 1999 nec art:336-5 (a)1-- In any multifamily dwelling or other structure exceeding three floors and above. In the 2002 it's been taken out. So if I have a 5 floor building I can run nm.
I just had a pole building built and I have to wire the whole thing. It is a commercial use building and the use of conduit or mc cable is required. I have done a lot of elect. work with romex in residential but no conduit or mc. Not true in my area anyway. My licensed electrician said that I can NOT use romex in a commercial building, he said it has to be protected meaning either conduit OR MC Cable. I don't know about commercial installs.
Is Romex cable (NM) allowed above a suspended ceiling in a commercial building? No. 334.12(A)(1) When is Romex not allowed in commercial buildings 334.10(3). NM can not be used in buildings of Type I or II construction. Re: Romex in Commercial Buildings. Hello-I didn't know that they took out from the 1999 nec art:336-5 (a)1-- In any multifamily dwelling or other structure exceeding three floors and above. In the 2002 it's been taken out. So if I have a 5 floor building I can run nm.
Use of NM cable in commercial buildings. I keep running up against electricians and inspectors that claim that NM cable (romex) cannot be used in commercial buildings. I am aware of NEC 334.12; and 334.10 uses permitted with the Types I through V building construction types. Even metal commercial or block buildings that do not have a fire rating and is not a place of assembly is allowed ot be wired in Romex. Romex is even allowed to be fished inside cement block walls within that cement block void area inside the cement block.
Romex in a commercial building. I am doing a small office and they allow the use of romex in it. It seems not right to me just pulling romex through metal trust ceilings. I will have the pastic bushing for the studs. I wanted to know what you guys use to support the wire. Even though you can use romex in the walls, any cable above the ceiling in a common area cannot be romex. I usually run MC for all my lighting and feed as much as I can through the walls, But for the runs I cannot, I use MC to the first box in the walls then switch to romex from there.
In fact, MC cable and romex both stand the same in the eyes of the code in terms of requiring protection from damage. Not true in my area anyway. My licensed electrician said that I can NOT use romex in a commercial building, he said it has to be protected meaning either conduit OR MC Cable. I don't know about commercial installs. AFAIK, nm is not allowed in commercial, so your comment doesn't really address my point
Anyway, I remember it had to do with the type classification of the building construction. So theoretically you can still use it in commercial buildings of the type in which it is approved to be used in. Again, totally subjective based upon location. 
So yes, Romex can be used in a commercial building. There are other code sections that may apply to your particular installation, if you are unfamiliar with the code book and are doing electrical work you should take a class on the NEC. An improper installation could lead to personal injury or property damage. 
Isn't the use of romex vs. conduit based on the use of the building and the number of floors the building? Meaning if the building is over 3 floors, it is required to be in conduit. Also if certain uses require conduit such as commercial garages with hazardous material, theaters, motion picture studios and more. You kind of have it backwards in that NM cable is typically used in buildings that are easier to burn down -- perhaps there is a cause and effect here! Here is what the code says for uses permitted for NM cable: (1) One-and two-family dwellings.
During lunch I looked it up...again.... Type 3-4-or 5 building. 15 minutes and while Romex can be visible, cannot be in a place where it can get damaged. I had actually already known that, but I was looking for some magical code refference with respect to commercial applications. And I couldn't find any. Say It Ain't So... James, you answered your own question. Romex is allowed in any building that is type III, IV, or V. It does not matter if the structure is residential or commercial. Industrial is probably out of the question as it would most certainly be type I.