When a person has bipolar disorder, the mood swings are such that they disrupt your life, sometimes completely. You can be so depressed that you cannot get out of bed. You can be so depressed that you don't want to live. You can be so manic that you spend your family's fortune and go into debt. Mood swings are changes in mood, the difference in mood swings in regular people and mood swings in bipolar disorder, is the severity and duration. In regular people, the mood swings usually do not interfere with your life.
Answer: Well, mood swings can be part of bipolar disorder. Mood swings are changes in mood, the difference in mood swings in regular people and mood swings in bipolar disorder, is the severity and duration. In regular people, the mood swings usually do not interfere with your life. If you're a little bit down or a little bit up, you can still go to work
Mood swings refer to rapid changes in mood. The term may refer to minor daily mood changes or to significant mood changes as seen with mood disorders such as major depression or bipolar depression. Mood swings can also occur in women who suffer from premenstrual syndrome or premenstrual dysphoric disorder. 
A mood swing is an extreme or rapid change in mood. Such mood swings can play a positive part in promoting problem solving and in producing flexible forward planning. However, when mood swings are so strong that they are disruptive, they may be the main part of a bipolar disorder.
Mood Swing Triggers in Bipolar Disorder. At first, mood swings may take you by surprise if you have bipolar disorder. But over time, you might start to see patterns or signs that you're entering a period of mania or depression. Aside from a shift in your mood, look for changes in your: 1  Sleep patterns. 2  Energy level. 3  Alcohol or drug use. 4  Sex drive. 5  Self-esteem. 
Small mood swings are a part of most people’s lives. However, some people’s mood swings are so extreme, rapid or serious, that they interfere with that individual’s functioning in everyday life. Bipolar disorder is the best example of a disorder that is characterized by mood swings — from manic to depressed. You can, however, have mood swings between any two moods or emotions, sad to angry, happy to contemplative, etc. etc. 
Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive illness, is a brain disorder that causes unusual shifts in mood, energy, activity levels, and the ability to carry out day-to-day tasks. Symptoms of bipolar disorder are severe. 
Bipolar disorder (also known as manic depression) is a treatable illness marked by extreme changes in mood, thought, energy and behavior. It is called bipolar disorder because a person's mood can alternate between the poles of mania (high, elevated mood) and depression (low, depressed mood). These changes in mood (mood swings) can last for hours, days, weeks or even months. These highs and lows are frequently seasonal
Mood swings are excessive or abrupt changes in your frame of mind. Your mood may suddenly shift from elation and euphoria to extreme sadness or terror, and then on to another emotion. Search Now. Find a Great Therapist Near You. Mood swings can occur as a symptom of psychiatric disorders, such as bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder, or they may result from a medical condition that directly affects the central nervous system, such as dementia, brain tumors, meningitis, and stroke.