Your eye doctor or LASIK surgeon typically will see you the day after your surgery to check your visual acuity and make sure your eyes are healthy and healing properly. Most patients are legal for driving (without eyeglasses or contact lenses) and are able to return to work the day after their LASIK procedure. Generally, most surgeons wait a minimum of six months before performing an enhancement, to provide adequate recovery time after the first surgery. After LASIK surgery, you should take precautions to protect your eyes from injuries.
9. Apr. One minute may not seem like a long time, but here are just a few things you can do in this short timeframe: It may seem unbelievable, but it’s true that the actual laser vision correction aspect of LASIK only takes approximately one minute for most patients. That’s one minute to reshape your cornea to correct for imperfections that cause nearsightedness, farsightedness and astigmatism.
Arlington, WA 98223. (800) 513-0780. LASIK surgery takes very little time. The entire procedure for both eyes is usually completed within 15 minutes. The first step of LASIK  creating the corneal flap  may take longer that the laser reshaping of the eye (step two). If the flap is created with a microkeratome, this step takes only a few seconds.
If your vision is bothersome six months after LASIK, your surgeon may recommend a LASIK enhancement procedure to sharpen your eyesight. Generally, most surgeons wait a minimum of six months before performing an enhancement, to provide adequate recovery time after the first surgery. After LASIK surgery, you should take precautions to protect your eyes from injuries.
Many people considering the procedure ask this question. On average, LASIK eye surgery is considered to be a permanent way to reshape your cornea and thus correct your vision. That’s fairly incredible, given the procedure takes roughly 30 minutes total.
The best way to determine if you are a candidate for laser vision correction. In general, you must be at least 18 years old, have healthy eyes and a stable eye prescription for the last twelve months. 
How long does the PRK procedure take? While you should plan to be with us on your procedure day for about 90 minutes, the procedure itself takes less than 15 minutes to complete. In fact, the laser will be used on each eye for less than one minute. 1 Dry Eyes: Dry eyes following LASIK or PRK can occur and are usually a temporary side effect. 2  Following your procedure, you will be asked to us artificial tears, which will help prevent the dry-eye feeling. 3  For most patients, the dryness disappears within 3 to 6 months following treatment.
How long does LASIK surgery take? While you should prepare to spend around 90 minutes at your doctor’s office for both your preop vision exam and treatment, the surgery itself takes less than 10 minutes. In fact, the laser will be used on each eye for less than a minute. 1 Dry Eyes: Dry eyes following LASIK or PRK can occur and are usually a temporary side effect. 2  Following your procedure, you will be asked to us artificial tears, which will help prevent the dry-eye feeling. 3  For most patients, the dryness disappears within 3 to 6 months following treatment.
Patients experience no pain during the procedure. LASIK is the most advanced form of laser refractive surgery. The procedure usually takes less than 15 minutes to perform with actual laser time averaging less than one minute. Prior to surgery, the surface of the eye is numbed completely with anesthetic drops. The patient also takes a relaxant drug such as Ativan. The first step is to call our laser vision correction department at (916) 485-2020 or toll free at (866) 88-LASIK in order to schedule an evaluation. During this evaluation you will meet with various members of our staff and get a feel for who we are and why so many people choose Griffin & Reed Eye Care.