Angkor Wat (Khmer: អង្គរវត្ត or Capital Temple) is a temple complex in Cambodia and the largest religious monument in the world. It was originally founded as a Hindu temple for the Khmer Empire, gradually transforming into a Buddhist temple toward the end of the 12th century. It was built by the Khmer King Suryavarman II in the early 12th century in Yaśodharapura (Khmer: យសោធរបុរៈ , present-day Angkor), the capital of the Khmer Empire, as his state temple and eventual mausoleum. Breaking from the Shaiva tradition of previous kings, Angkor Wat was instead dedicated to Vishnu
Angkor Wat is one of the world’s most famous monuments and a national symbol of Cambodia. Built in the 12th century, Angkor Wat was in the center of the city of Angkor, which was the capital of the Khmer Empire from the 9th to the 15th centuries. Rock art researchers believe the paintings belong to a specific phase of the temple’s history in the 16th century CE when it was converted from a Vishnavaite Hindu use to Theravada Buddhist. Angkor Wat temple complex.
Previously undocumented evidence of temples, ancient canals and rivers, dikes and roads were found by combining the latest in data gathering technology with Indiana Jones-style archeology. The find amounts to a hidden city that predates the renowned Angkor Wat temple complex by 350 years. Share This Story. A lost Cambodian city that predates the renowned Angkor Wat temple complex by centuries has been discovered in the jungles along a mountainside in the country's northwest.
--------------. (of / Continued from yesterday). 4- Built in the 12th century and abandoned in 1431, Angkor Wat succumbed to the encroaching jungle until the great temple complex was rediscovered in 1860 by French botanist Henri Mahout. 5- Henri Mahout could hardly believe his eyes in 1860. 
The lost city is just 40km from Angkor Wat. 0 Have your say. ARCHAEOLOGISTS have reportedly discovered a ‘lost’ 1200-year-old city on a Cambodian mountainside around 25 miles from Angkor Wat, the world’s largest religious temple.
The city where the temple was built, Angkor, is located in modern-day Cambodia and was once the capital of the Khmer Empire. This city contains hundreds of temples. The population may have been over 1 million people. A moat, tower and hidden paintings. Angkor Wat itself is surrounded by a 650-foot-wide (200 m) moat that encompasses a perimeter of more than 3 miles (5 km). This moat is 13 feet deep (4 m) and would have helped stabilize the temple’s foundation, preventing groundwater from rising too high or falling too low.
The 1,200-year-old city — just 25 miles west of Angkor Wat in mountainous Phnom Kulen region — was found by Sydney University’s Damien Evans and his team using the latest airborne Lidar laser scanning technology. BY Beth Stebner. 
The modern name, Angkor Wat, means Temple City or City of Temples in Khmer; Angkor, meaning city or capital city, is a vernacular form of the word nokor (នគរ), which comes from the Sanskrit word nagara (नगर). Wat is the Khmer word for temple grounds (Sanskrit: वाट vāṭa enclosure). It was built by the Khmer King Suryavarman II in the early 12th century in Yaśodharapura (Khmer: យសោធរបុរៈ , present-day Angkor), the capital of the Khmer Empire, as his state temple and eventual mausoleum. Breaking from the Shaiva tradition of previous kings, Angkor Wat was instead dedicated to Vishnu
The ancient city predates Angkor Wat (pictured) by about 350 years. (Photo: Wikimedia Commons). A lost Cambodian city that predates the renowned Angkor Wat temple complex by centuries has been discovered in the jungles along a mountainside in the country's northwest.