In communist nations, people were not allowed to own land, follow their religious beliefs, or speak and act freely. Americans were afraid that the Soviets would take over the U.S. and take away their freedoms. President Harry Truman established a policy of “containment” towards the Soviet Union.
The reason people fear communism is because they don't want to be equal. Communism in a sense is a good idea on paper, but that's it. Man can never make communism work in real life, there is to much greed in man and to much jealousy.
I don't think Hitler actually feared communism in a conventional sense, but he needed to downplay the Socialist Party and the Communist Party in Germany as they had the second and third largest portions of the German parliament, the Reichstag, with the Nazi Party (Hitler's party) having the largest portion.
I don't think Hitler actually feared communism in a conventional sense, but he needed to downplay the Socialist Party and the Communist Party in Germany as they had the second and third largest portions of the German parliament, the Reichstag, with the Nazi Party (Hitler's party) having the largest portion.
Most Americans would not like to live in a society that denied such rights. shake99 | Teacher | (Level 1) Senior Educator. Posted on. (Answer #3). Part of the communist purpose was to encourage and enable the working class, the proletariat, to rise up against the state and take over the means of production. In a capitalist society like ours, this would amount to a full-scale revolution.
People feared communism because they did not want to lose their rights. Communist governments typically deny people the right to freedom of speech and to political participation. They also deny people the right to do what they want with their own property.
Without a doubt the United States' fear of communist expansion in Cuba played a major role in the escalation on the Cold War. Castro had brought communism only 90 miles from the United States and the U.S. feared that he would use Cuba as a base for communist propaganda.
People fear communism because many of the countries that have had it have been totalitarianism regimes. People associate communism with China and Russia often, and they were the enemies of freedom. Therefore, communism got modified and adapted a lot.