Scores Reported on the GRE ® revised General Test. If no questions are answered for a specific measure (e.g., Verbal Reasoning), then you will receive a No Score (NS) for that measure. The photo and essay responses from each GRE revised General Test administration you select from your five-year reportable history will be made available in the portal as part of your score record to the institutions you designated to receive your scores on or after July 1, 2014.
GRE ® test scores are valid for five years after the testing year in which you tested (July 1–June 30). Currently, scores earned from July 1, 2010, to the present are available. The photo and essay responses from each GRE revised General Test administration you select from your five-year reportable history will be made available in the portal as part of your score record to the institutions you designated to receive your scores on or after July 1, 2014.
Graduate Record Examination (GRE) test for admission into US Graduate programs is valid for five years from the date of test. Suppose if you take GRE on 30th May 2012, your score will be valid till 29th May 2017. You can use GRE score to apply to US Universities with in the 5 year un-expired period. Yes, you can apply to US Schools any time before GRE test score expiration. If your GRE is is not valid by the time the university review your application, they may ask you to retake the test. I have old GRE score and the test is taken with in last 5 years.
Score Validity. GMAT and GRE scores are valid for five years. Since we require the GMAT or GRE for admission, you must take the test before submitting your application. The scores you submit must be valid as of the deadline date of the round in which you apply. If your GMAT or GRE score is still valid, you do not need to take the Next Generation GMAT or GRE revised General Test.
GRE Score Validity How long GRE is Valid?. Can apply to universities at the end of GRE score validity? My GRE will expire during my Masters or PhD study in USA. Do I need to retake GRE for new Score? Yes, you can apply to US Schools any time before GRE test score expiration. If your GRE is is not valid by the time the university review your application, they may ask you to retake the test. I have old GRE score and the test is taken with in last 5 years.
1 Test scores are valid for two (2) years and must be submitted directly by ETS to the Carnegie Mellon University Australia Admissions Office or uploaded with your application. Applicants must provide a valid score for the GRE or GMAT test below. Graduate Records Exam (GRE). Students must achieve an average minimum score of 300. 1  Institution Code: 2074.
1 Minimum of 6.5 overall and no less than 6.0 in all bands. 2  Test scores are valid for two (2) years and must be submitted directly by IELTS to the Carnegie Mellon University Australia Admissions Office or uploaded with your application. Applicants must provide a valid score for the GRE or GMAT test below. Graduate Records Exam (GRE). Students must achieve an average minimum score of 300. 1  Institution Code: 2074.
TOEFL. 1  Minimum of 90 (iBT) overall and no less than 22 in all bands. 2  Test scores are valid for two (2) years and must be submitted directly by ETS to the Carnegie Mellon University Australia Admissions Office or uploaded with your application. Applicants must provide a valid score for the GRE or GMAT test below. Graduate Records Exam (GRE). Students must achieve an average minimum score of 300. 1  Institution Code: 2074.
IELTS. 1  Minimum of 6.5 overall and no less than 6.0 in all bands. 2  Test scores are valid for two (2) years and must be submitted directly by IELTS to the Carnegie Mellon University Australia Admissions Office or uploaded with your application. Applicants must provide a valid score for the GRE or GMAT test below. Graduate Records Exam (GRE). Students must achieve an average minimum score of 300. 1  Institution Code: 2074.