online rn to bsn chamberlain college-page 2. I am about to start an online rn to bsn through Chamberlain College of Nursing on march 1st 2010. I've read lots of reviews, more good than bad, so I decided to proceed. I am wondering if anybody out... Read More. Leave a Comment. « Prev 1 2 3 4 5 ..
The program cost is $415 per credit. There is also a $10 processing fee per course added to the price of tuition. Most classes are 3 credits and cost $1255 (i.e., 3 credits times $415 per credit = $1245 + $10 processing fee = $1255). $60 of this total is an administrative fee that is non-refundable after the close of registration. The remaining fees are limited to a one-time Application Fee of $44; a Senior (Graduation) Fee of $45; and a minimum Background Check Fee of $80 for the Community Health Practicum Course placement.
However, some schools may charge at a separate basis. A BSN program may also be offered online. The cost for an online BSN program is approximately $28,000 for the whole of the four-year course. Like many medical-allied courses, a BSN program does not come cheap. However, there are considerations that can affect the cost for a BSN program, such as your citizenship, geographical location, and the type of school you are enrolling at.
A BSN program is essentially divided into two parts: The first two years of the program is dedicated to the didactic portion of the course, or the theoretical side of nursing. The last two years is focused on the nursing internship, the application of theories. A Bachelor of Science degree in nursing (BSN) is among the many academic pathways to become a nurse. A BSN program is considered the traditional choice among aspiring nurses due to the scholastic and professional edge it offers.
Other Fees. There are, of course, other intervening cots that you have to prepare in a BSN program. Textbooks are among the largest investments you have to give. Typically, the cost for nursing books can incur around $1,000 to $3,000 annually. Like many medical-allied courses, a BSN program does not come cheap. However, there are considerations that can affect the cost for a BSN program, such as your citizenship, geographical location, and the type of school you are enrolling at.
Also-I'm checking on their website and it shows which nursing courses are required-but where is the course list that you also have to complete for admission? Trying to figure out how long it would take me to finish. I have contacted an admission advisor just waiting to hear back. I'm attaching what they used for me (with key bits marked out), but that was 2008 so things might have changed. However, this should give you a general idea. Once you figure out how many credits you need, you can use the tuition and fees page (Tuition and Fees) to calculate your tuition. I loved Chamberlain's program.
1 The RN-to-BSN programs offered through the ACCN have grown increasingly popular in recent years; enrollments have increased each consecutive year for more than a decade, including a 22.2% leap between 2011 and 2012. 
Tuition Fees. Typically, for the whole course of a four years’ worth BSN program, the total cost for tuition fees is around $20,000 to $30,000 in public colleges and universities; and around $100,000 in private ones. Like many medical-allied courses, a BSN program does not come cheap. However, there are considerations that can affect the cost for a BSN program, such as your citizenship, geographical location, and the type of school you are enrolling at.
Chamberlain College of Nursing: rn to BSN Reviews. Learn More about Chamberlain College of Nursing. Materials: Teachers: Institution: Support: Value: Technology: CCN I just completed the RN-BSN. While it is very expensive, it was a very good program and I completed it in under a year. 