A: Many events at the Mellon cost approximately $18,750 for the building rental and building support costs. This is based on 14 hours of access time, including your load-in and load-out access hours, which must fall between 8 a.m. and and 2 a.m. to avoid incurring surcharge fees. A: You are required by the Health Department to have a catering tent if your caterer (kitchen) will be set up outside. The Mellon Auditorium has a $600.00 security fee for usage of this exterior door in addition to the rental cost of the tent.
Lemont High School in the Lemont Township (Ill.) High School District 210 added a high-tech auditorium to its existing building as part of a larger $29.6 million project that included classroom additions and football field improvements. “We had to do not only what was right for the auditorium but what was right for our consumers and community too,” she says. The original sound system at McEachern’s auditorium has served the school well for 12 years now, but Faulkner has finally begun looking at upgrades.
Size: 600-seat auditorium with approximately 40′ wide by 20′ high proscenium opening. Description: In most respects, this was a typical installation for a high school, though a few minor differences could have raised or lowered the price considerably. Notes: 1  The addition of the 23 letters is unusual. 2  Had the rear U-surround and track been installed at the same time, it would have added approximately $9,700 to the total cost of the project. 3  More economical fabrics could be utilized and reduce the overall cost of this project by approximately 25%.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. It really depends on how big you want the auditorium to be. I would say about in the 750,000 dollar range just for lights sound and seating. And that's in the low price range. (as of july2009)   Otherwise take your regular local Residential building cost (what it would normally cost you to build a house) per Square foot .... then figure how much square footage your going to have... My Appartment I'm living in Texas is an effecintcy maybe 500 to 800 sqft add in Appliances...
The construction company, which is also building the $60 million new high school, recently told the city that it was basically back on track for finishing the school on time by this summer. It had earlier fallen 60 days behind because of bad weather. The construction company tasked with building a new high school has told the city it needs an additional $1.4 million to finish the school's auditorium.
District Administration, Dec 2008. Building a quality auditorium has never come at a cheap price. And in today’s economy, a $750,000 minimum price tag just for sound, lighting, stage rigging and seats can seem exorbitant. “We had to do not only what was right for the auditorium but what was right for our consumers and community too,” she says. The original sound system at McEachern’s auditorium has served the school well for 12 years now, but Faulkner has finally begun looking at upgrades.
somewhere around $20,000.00 depending on what type of games and other electronics that are inside your arcade. Go to www.bmigaming.com and price out each machine. Keep in mind … the avg. cost of a NEW machine will be $4,500. Motion Theater Attraction Rides range from $99K- $500K each. (as of july2009)   Otherwise take your regular local Residential building cost (what it would normally cost you to build a house) per Square foot .... then figure how much square footage your going to have... My Appartment I'm living in Texas is an effecintcy maybe 500 to 800 sqft add in Appliances...
David Sheakley / Juneau Empire. Coogan Construction's 2006 bid to do finishing work for Thunder Mountain High School's auditorium was for about $2.1 million, but that bid expired before voters approved the project in a special election last summer. Coogan's new price tag for the project is about $3.5 million. The construction company tasked with building a new high school has told the city it needs an additional $1.4 million to finish the school's auditorium.