Grouped in to four basic types: connective, muscle, nervous, and epithelial. Multiple tissue types compose organs and body structures. While all animals can generally be considered to contain the four tissue types, the manifestation of these tissues can differ depending on the type of organism. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. The study of tissue is known as histology or, in connection with disease, histopathology.
A tissue is one of the building blocks of an organism--either animal or plant. An organism is comprised of tissues, which are made up of individual cells. These cells share a similar structure (how they're built) and function (what they do). The study of tissues is a field known as histology. Specific epithelial tissue types consist of the combination of the cell shape and number of cell layers. For example, simple cuboidal epithelial tissue describes tissue that is one cell layer thick, with cells that are cube-like in appearance.
Body Tissues. Tissue is a group of cells that have similar structure and that function together as a unit. A nonliving material, called the intercellular matrix, fills the spaces between the cells. This may be abundant in some tissues and minimal in other
In biology, tissue is a cellular organizational level intermediate between cells and a complete organ. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. The study of tissue is known as histology or, in connection with disease, histopathology.
Human body tissue consists of groups of cells with a similar structure working together for a specific function. There are four main types of tissue in a body. Learn more about them and take a short quiz at the end. Definition of Human Body Tissue. If you were to try to explain to someone what your body is made of, you might say two arms, two legs, feet and hands, a head and a torso. Or, you may go to the other extreme and say that you are made up of billions of cells. Both answers would be correct.
tissue typing identification of tissue types for purposes of predicting acceptance or rejection of grafts and transplants. The process and purposes of tissue typing are essentially the same as for blood typing. The major difference lies in the kinds of antigens being evaluated. connective tissue the tissue that binds together and is the support of the various structures of the body; see also connective tissue. elastic tissue connective tissue made up of yellow elastic fibers, frequently massed into sheets. endothelial tissue peculiar connective tissue lining serous and lymph spaces.