Renovate or build new? This age-old question goes far beyond renovation vs. new construction because it involves multiple issues and community stakeholders. However, the answer is very straightforward: provide the best place for students to learn. The estimated cost for a moderate renovation with an addition was $5.3 million, versus $10.9 million for a new building. To green it up even further, new ventilation, air conditioning, and more natural light were added to the facility. The building also presented the ideal opportunity to recast current space.
In the current age of environmental awareness, the district decided to renovate and focus the planning process on green design. The estimated cost for a moderate renovation with an addition was $5.3 million, versus $10.9 million for a new building. To green it up even further, new ventilation, air conditioning, and more natural light were added to the facility. The building also presented the ideal opportunity to recast current space.
Interest Rates. One of the biggest factors in the cost of remodeling or building a new home is the available interest rate. Homeowners who choose to remodel may fund the project from savings, but a home equity loan or line of credit is a more common option. Remodeling or building a new home is an opportunity to practice good environmental stewardship, which can also have a major impact on costs. A green remodel using energy-efficient appliances can increase a home's value more than installing basic appliances.
New Construction vs. Renovation. Discover the differences in LEED certification when considering new construction or the renovation of an existing building. LEED-EB vs. LEED-EB O&M. LEED for Existing Buildings: Operations & Maintenance (LEED-EB O&M) and LEED for Existing Buildings (LEED-EB) are the same rating system. The 345,000-square-foot, Quincy, MA, facility (first photo) was a renovation project and is LEED-EB O&M Silver certified. The second project, (second photo) a new, 329,000-square-foot office in Hingham, MA, is expected to be LEED-NC
The cost of building a new home may be a better long-term investment than remodeling. Homeowners may decide its time for a change or upgrade for a number of reasons. Everything from a growing family to increasing clutter or a rising income can make it seem like a good time to buy a new home or remodel an existing one. Remodeling or building a new home is an opportunity to practice good environmental stewardship, which can also have a major impact on costs. A green remodel using energy-efficient appliances can increase a home's value more than installing basic appliances.
Costs. The cost of remodeling an existing house and building a new one depends on the quality of construction and finishes. Remodeling an existing house may end up being as expensive as building a house from the ground up. According to Remodeling Magazine, the average national cost in 2011 for adding a second story to an existing house is $165,243, and a major kitchen remodel averages $58,367. The National Association of Home Builders reports that the average national new construction cost in 2011 is $184,125. Building a New Home. Remodeling an existing house isn't always cheaper than building a new house. Remodeling a house is one of the biggest tasks you may ever tackle. You may even consider whether you would be better off building an entirely new home.
Download a copy of the column from the Lake Geneva Regional News Real Estate Guide. Reality is, for the price of a used home, you could get a brand new residence. On a cost-per-square-foot basis, remodeling is usually much more expensive than new construction. But the decision to do one versus the other should not be based on construction costs alone. There are many things to consider. And the challenge there is that you don’t really know what’s inside that wall. With remodeling you can always count on surprises and all surprises cost extra money. While whole house remodeling is almost always more expensive than new construction, the cost of a home is only part of the equation.
Ultimately, the cost-effective decision between remodeling or building a new home may depend on how long you plan to stay in the house. Remodeling may be best for homeowners who either can't afford to build a new home or plan to stay in the home for an extended period of time and want it to better meet their needs. Remodeling or building a new home is an opportunity to practice good environmental stewardship, which can also have a major impact on costs. A green remodel using energy-efficient appliances can increase a home's value more than installing basic appliances.