Yes. Quebec will, and should separate from Canada. One of the many  reasons they wanted to leave is due to their differences in  language and culture from Canada. These diff … erences are in fact  very major, and no matter what the rest of Canada (ROC) may think.  Quebec is a strong contributor to the culture and economy of  Canada. However, no catastrophic problems would occur if they ever  did separate.
Best Answer: You have to ask a Francophone from Quebec to get a real answer. They feel excluded from English-speaking Canada for various reasons, generally because of Federal government policy, which often is not in line with the type of government that they would like to see. There are many people in Quebec who want to separate. But what drives some of the hard-line nationalists crazy is the large number of people, born and bred in Quebec, who think they are better off to stay part of Canada.
Quebec is the only province in Canada that has a French-speaking majority. The rest of Canada speaks mainly English. The are afriad of losing they're language and unique culture. They are afraid of being assimilated into Englsh Canada. They view themselves as an island of French in a sea of English. These diff … erences are in fact  very major, and no matter what the rest of Canada (ROC) may think.  Quebec is a strong contributor to the culture and economy of  Canada. However, no catastrophic problems would occur if they ever  did separate.
The Quebec sovereignty movement (French: Mouvement souverainiste du Quebec) québec is a political movement as well as an ideology of, values concepts and ideas that advocates sovereignty for The canadian province Of. quebec There was a feeling amongst the Cree of Northern Quebec, that should the province separate, they would remain part of Canada, and would force the province to return to its pre-1912 boundaries, and re-establish the Ungava district of the Northwest Territories, or a new territory or province created in its place.
Quebec is the only province in Canada that has a French-speaking majority. Some in Quebec feel that they have nothing in common with the rest of the country and that they have … more socialist values. These diff … erences are in fact  very major, and no matter what the rest of Canada (ROC) may think.  Quebec is a strong contributor to the culture and economy of  Canada. However, no catastrophic problems would occur if they ever  did separate.
Quebec is the only province in Canada that has a French-speaking majority. The rest of Canada speaks mainly English. The are afriad of losing they're language and unique cultu … re. They are afraid of being assimilated into Englsh Canada. They view themselves as an island of French in a sea of English. These diff … erences are in fact  very major, and no matter what the rest of Canada (ROC) may think.  Quebec is a strong contributor to the culture and economy of  Canada. However, no catastrophic problems would occur if they ever  did separate.
A simple vote in Quebec is not enough to allow the French-speaking province to legally separate from the rest of Canada, the country's Supreme Court said yesterday in a landmark opinion widely seen as fortifying the federal Government's efforts to keep the United States' closest ally from breaking up. 
Quebec is the only province in Canada that has a French-speaking majority. Some in Quebec feel that they have nothing in common with the rest of the country and that they have … more socialist values. These diff … erences are in fact  very major, and no matter what the rest of Canada (ROC) may think.  Quebec is a strong contributor to the culture and economy of  Canada. However, no catastrophic problems would occur if they ever  did separate.
Canada should be indivisible. Canada is a country. Quebec, Alberta, etc. are parts of the country, no more, no less. If Quebec for some unfathomable reason was allowed to separate, there wouldn't be a sovereign Quebec and the rest of Canada. Canada itself would cease to exist. #19 Aug 21st, 2006. I think that if Quebec has another referendum, the rest of Canada should also have a referendum with a clear question that would ask if the rest of Canada wants Quebec to stay or not. I am bilingual and I have had enough of the province of Quebec holding the threat of separation over our heads.