Details. You can access Internet Explorer two ways: Once you have located it, right click it and click Pin to Taskbar. Another way you can locate it is by using the Search box on the Taskbar, type Internet Explorer, right click it and click Pin to Taskbar. Last, but not least, using the Run command.
Internet Explorer 11 is the default web browser for Windows 8.1. However you can use Internet Explorer developer tool and use Internet Explorer 10 on Internet Explorer 11 by following these steps: 1. Open Internet Explorer 11 2. Press F12 on the keyboard 3. Click Emulation button or press Ctrl + 8. 4.
In Internet Explorer, the private browsing mode is referred to as InPrivate Browsing. Any browsing done in this mode will not be logged on your computer. You can use InPrivate Browsing in both the desktop and Metro versions of Internet Explorer.
1 In order to use the Internet Explorer 9 interface on a full-screen mode, you can click the Unpin button available at the top right corner of the interface, and once the developer options interface is unpinned, you can minimize it and can freely work on the main Internet Explorer interface.
SUMMARY. This article describes how to use the AutoComplete feature in Internet Explorer 5 and 6. The AutoComplete feature suggests possible matches for entries you type in the Address bar, a Web page form, or a user name or password box on a Web page.
Internet Explorer 11 is the default web browser for Windows 8.1. However you can use Internet Explorer developer tool and use Internet Explorer 10 on Internet Explorer 11 by following these steps: 1. Open Internet Explorer 11. 2. Press F12 on the keyboard. 3. Click Emulation button or press Ctrl + 8.
To start Internet Explorer in Kiosk mode and start Internet Explorer with the Example.htm Web page that is located on another computer on the network, click Start, point to Run, and then type iexplore-k \\server\share\example.htm in the Open box, where. and.
To start Internet Explorer in Kiosk mode and start Internet Explorer with the Example.htm Web page that is located in the My Documents folder on your computer, click Start, point to Run, and then type iexplore-k c:\my documents\example.htm in the Open box.