The most common cause of injury to the cartilage and ligaments of the wrist is a hard fall on an outstretched arm with the palm side down or from excessive torque at the wrist. If the ulnar side of the wrist is hyperextended the TFCC could tear or rupture. The cartilage and ligaments that unite the proximal wrist are the most prone to injury. The triquetrum (T), lunate (L), and scaphoid (S) are the carpal bones of the proximal row.
Although there are many ligaments and injuries in the wrist, a scapholunate ligament tear is the most commonly injured. The scapholunate ligament connects the scaphoid to the lunate. The most important part of the ligament is on the back (dorsal side) of the wrist. 
The ligaments of the wrist not only attach the carpal bones to one another, but they connect the carpals to the radius and ulna, as well as, to the metacarpal bones. The cartilage and ligaments that unite the proximal wrist are the most prone to injury. The triquetrum (T), lunate (L), and scaphoid (S) are the carpal bones of the proximal row. The ligaments connecting these bones are the luno-triquetral ligament (LT) and the scapho-lunate ligament (SL)
Introduction. Wrist injuries are common. If a wrist injury causes significant damage to the ligaments, it can result in serious problems in the wrist. Such an injury typically continues to cause problems unless corrected. This guide will help you understand. 1  how ligament injuries of the wrist occur. Any kind of injury to the wrist joint can alter how the joint works. After a wrist injury, ligament damage may result in an unstable joint. Any time an injury changes the way the joint moves, even if the change is very subtle, the forces on the articular cartilage increase.
DESCRIPTION. A sprain is an injury to a ligament. Ligaments are the connective tissues that connect bones to bones; they could be thought of as tape that holds the bones together at a joint (see Figure 1). The most common ligament to be injured in the wrist is the scapho-lunate ligament (see Figure 2). It is the ligament between two of the small bones in the wrist, the scaphoid bone and the lunate bone. There are many other ligaments in the wrist, but they are less frequently injured
A sprain is an injury to a ligament. Ligaments are strong bands of connective tissue that connect one bone to another. A wrist sprain is a common injury. There are many ligaments in the wrist that can be stretched or torn, resulting in a sprain. This occurs when the wrist is bent forcefully, such as in a fall onto an outstretched hand.
Ligaments connect all the small wrist bones to each other. Ligaments also connect the bones of the wrist with the radius, ulna, and metacarpal bones. These ligaments are important in balancing the movement of all of the wrist bones. Any kind of injury to the wrist joint can alter how the joint works. After a wrist injury, ligament damage may result in an unstable joint. Any time an injury changes the way the joint moves, even if the change is very subtle, the forces on the articular cartilage increase.
Ligaments are the tissues around joints that help stabilise the joint, maximising strength and preventing excess movement. Ligaments are attached to the bones either side of a joint. Ligament injuries are very common, especially in the hand as it is so exposed and so widely used in day to day activities. Ligament injuries are typically partial tears known as sprains. Most heal without any problems.
When one or more of these ligaments is injured, the way the bones move together as a unit is changed. This can lead to problems in the wrist joint that cause pain. Eventually, arthritis may develop in the wrist joint. Any kind of injury to the wrist joint can alter how the joint works. After a wrist injury, ligament damage may result in an unstable joint. Any time an injury changes the way the joint moves, even if the change is very subtle, the forces on the articular cartilage increase.
Treating a torn wrist ligament isn't something that can be done at home. Only sprains can be treated without the help of a doctor. Torn ligaments may require surgery to the bones or wrist ligament in order to decrease pain and restore function. A torn wrist ligament, unlike a sprain, can cause progressive joint problems if it isn't treated properly.