The kidneys are two reddish-brown, bean-shaped organs located just above the waist, one on each side of the spine. They are part of the urinary system. Their main function is to filter blood and produce urine to rid the body of waste. As blood flows through the kidneys, they remove waste products and unneeded water. The resulting liquid, urine, collects in the middle of each kidney in an area called the renal pelvis. Kidney: The kidneys are vital internal organs located in the abdomen. Normally people have two functioning kidneys that form a part of the urinary tract in the genitourinary system. The kidneys have a variety of functions.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: the liver is part of the digestive system. it produces bile andit filters blood cells and makes new ones too. example-when you drink alcohal, your liver filters it out. it kills liver cells and the liver makes new ones, but, when consumption is constant, a condition called cirrohsis occurs. the kidney is part ot the excretory system, also called urine system. 
The kidneys are a part of the urinary system. the urinary system is one component of the excretory system of your body. The kidney is a part of the ''excretory system'' . I't regulates the chemical composition of body fluids by removing metabolic wastes and retaining the proper amounts of water, salts, and nutrients. No, the kidneys are not a part of the digestive system. The  digestive system made up of the organs in your body that process  food, absorb nutrients, and dispose of waste. … The kidneys are a  part of the urinary or excretory system. Kidneys keep all the  ingredients of blood-salt, water, acid, etc.-- in balance so  that the body can function properly
The kidneys are bean-shaped organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in vertebrates. They remove excess organic molecules from the blood, and it is by this action that their best-known function is performed: the removal of waste products of metabolism. Kidneys are essential to the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes, maintenance of acid–base balance, and regulation of blood pressure (via maintaining the salt and water balance).
Specific features: -Urine is made by the kidneys; it's transported from the kidneys to the bladder by the ureters; the bladder stores the urine then the urine leaves the bladder and exits the body via the urethra. -95% of urine is water. Also present is urea, which is produced in the liver (urea is the excretion form of nitrogen waste). 
The organs, tubes, muscles, and nerves that work together to create, store, and carry urine are the urinary system. The urinary system includes two kidneys, two ureters, the bladder, two sphincter muscles, and the urethra. 
The kidneys are also part of the endocrine system because they release a hormone called erythropoitin--abbreviated EPO-- which is responsible for transforming reticulocytes into mature iron-bearing red blood cells. 
The kidneys are paired organs, which have the production of urine as their primary function. They are part of the urinary system, but have several secondary functions concerned with homeostatic functions. These include the regulation of electrolytes, acid-base balance, and blood pressure. 
The urinary system consists of all the organs involved in the formation and release of urine. It includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. The kidneys are bean-shaped organs which help the body produce urine to get rid of unwanted waste substances. Components of the urinary system. Kidneys and ureters. The kidneys are large, bean-shaped organs towards the back of the abdomen (belly). They lie behind a protective sheet of tissue within the abdomen.