It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Step 1: Bring the water to simmering Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan. This greasing step is optional but helps keep the whites from sticking to the sides of the pan. 
Easy does it so you avoid breaking the yolk. Lower the bowl’s edge into the water so the egg slips out smoothly. 3. Cook the eggs undisturbed for 3 to 5 minutes, just until the white is set and the yolk has filmed over. The longer you cook them, the thicker the yolks become. Lift the eggs out of the pan with a slotted spoon, letting as much water as possible drain off. (If you want to make them look really nice, trim off the raggedy bits with kitchen shears.) Serve right away, sprinkled with salt and pepper. The more the egg jiggles when you shake the spoon, the runnier the yolk is. Tips. 1  If you boil an egg in its shell for 6 minutes, you have a perfect substitute for a poached egg. 2  Run under cold water, crack the shell, and peel—gently—as you would a hard-boiled egg. 3  You can poach as many eggs as will fit comfortably in the water, so use as large a pan as you need.
Drain and serve. Tips. A shallow saucepan with large surface area is best for poaching eggs. For poached eggs with a compact oval shape, use the freshest eggs available. To keep egg whites from sprawling, crack eggs, one at a time, into a small dish, then slip into simmering water. Rapid boiling will cause egg to break up as it cooks.
1 When water begins to boil, add 2 tsps. of white vinegar. 2  Lower water to a simmer, carefully crack eggs directly into water (or into a ladle or teacup) and gently lower into the water. 3  Allow the egg to set around the yolk like a white pillow. 4  The egg should float to the top when the white is set. 1 Bring pot of water to boil. 2  When water begins to boil, add 2 tsps. of white vinegar. 3  Lower water to a simmer, carefully crack eggs directly into water (or into a ladle or teacup) and gently lower into the water. 4
One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl. The very thin egg whites will drain out through the sieve. 4 Gently lift the poached eggs out of the pan with a slotted spoon and place on a plate to serve. To help the eggs keep from spreading too much some people have good results by placing a mason jar ring in the pan. Put a mason jar ring in the bottom of the pan and fill the pan with water to just above the mason jar ring.
Let it poach: Turn off the heat, cover the pan and set your timer for 5 minutes. Don't peek, poke, stir or accost the egg in any way. Lift it out: Remove the egg with a slotted spoon and serve immediately. Alternatively, move the egg to an ice bath and refrigerate up to 8 hours. 
2 Working with the eggs one at a time, crack the egg into a small bowl or cup. Place the bowl close to the surface of the hot water and gently slip the egg into the water. If you want, use a spoon to push some of the egg whites closer to their yolks, to help them hold together. 4 Gently lift the poached eggs out of the pan with a slotted spoon and place on a plate to serve. To help the eggs keep from spreading too much some people have good results by placing a mason jar ring in the pan. Put a mason jar ring in the bottom of the pan and fill the pan with water to just above the mason jar ring.
• Splash of Vinegar-Vinegar, or even lemon, helps the egg whites to set more quickly and we get fewer wispy bits when we add a tablespoon or two to the simmering water. • Use Fresh Eggs-The fresher the egg, the more tightly the whites stay together. Here's how we do it: • Shallow Water-The shallow water helps keep the egg contained. There's only so far up or down that it can go. We usually poach our eggs in a 2-quart saucepan filled with 2-3 inches of water. • Gentle Simmer-Boiling or even rapidly simmering water will tear apart the fragile egg whites before they have time to set