Gerbera Daisies. Distinguished by their large, beautiful blooms and wide assortment of vibrant colors, gerbera daisies have become a favorite flower choice for expressing cheerful sentiments. The traditional flower meanings for the gerbera daisy, however, are beauty and innocence. Few other flowers can match the elegant beauty of the iris. Representing faith, hope, and wisdom, the iris is a flower that can be used for many different occasions. While it is most known for its distinctive blue varieties, the iris can also be found in other colors such as yellow and white.
Daisy Assorted Colors Flower. Customer Reviews. A fresh flower, the Daisy is a spray flower that a classic bloom with many ray petals radiating out from a disk-shaped center. Each stem has an average of 3-5 flowers. If a bride is hoping for pregnancy early in the marriage, ancient folklore suggests that she place a daisy in her left stocking. Please note that the colors received may differ from those pictured in the photo
About the Daisy Plant and Flower. A Daisy flower is composed of white petals and a yellow center, although the flower can sometimes have a pink or rose color. Daisies are not made of just one flower. A Daisy is made up of two types of flowers-disk florets and petal-like white ray florets. 
The Daisies Flower. There are lots of different types of flowers we call daisies. There's common daisies, African daisies, and Shasta daisies, to name a few. In fact, there's a whole family of plants that is known as the daisy family. The more scientific name for that family is Asteraceae. 
Express your emotions with gerbera daisies. Also known as African daisies, gerbera daisies come in many colors and shades. Each color represents a different meaning and emotion. The gift of orange daisies says you are the sunshine of her life. The daisies shine through with vibrant color, and its eye symbolizes the focus that the person provides in your life. 
Gerbera daisies come in bright colors. Gerbera daisies (Gerbera jamesonii) are large flowers from 2 to 4 inches in diameter. The flowers are flat with a center ring of short, small petals surrounded by rings of larger flat petals. The flowers are native to South Africa. Colors. Gerbera daisies bloom in blazing red, bright orange, sunny yellow and shocking pink. Pastel colors include pale to medium pink, soft yellows, peach and light purple. The white is more of an off-white than a bright white. Dark colors include purple, dark raspberry, maroon and bronze.
Order online and pay wholesale prices, plus receive free shipping! Please note that the colors received may differ from those pictured in the photo. A fresh flower, the Daisy is a spray flower that a classic bloom with many ray petals radiating out from a disk-shaped center. Each stem has an average of 3-5 flowers.
Gerberas. Browse through 5 different subcategories of Gerbera Daisies! This family of flowers has something for everyone, with different varieties providing various looks, colors, and textures! Combine Gerbera Daisy blooms with Carnations and greens for a casual feel! 
Gerbera daisies (Gerbera jamesonii), also called Transvaal, Barberton or Veldt daisies, grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 8 through 11. The perennial daisies with their long-lasting 2- to 5-inch wide flower heads are suitable for cut flowers. Gerbera daisies come in various flower formations. Singles are simply a single row of petals around a green eye; other forms may also have black, brown or dark red eyes.