Comments. Gareth Bale has revealed the only thing he does not like about playing for Real Madrid is being embarrassed by his superstar teammates in training and dealing with Spanish spiders. Bale, who has been repeatedly linked with a return to the Premier League with Manchester United, insists in the latest edition of Four Four Two magazine that he is loving life in La Liga, although he still finds “it a bit surreal” being called a Galactico.
Gareth Frank Bale (born 16 July 1989) is a Welsh professional footballer who plays as a winger for Real Madrid and the Wales national team. Bale started the 2014–15 season in good form, playing the full 90 minutes and assisting Cristiano Ronaldo 's first goal in a 2–0 win at the Cardiff City Stadium against Sevilla to win the 2014 UEFA Super Cup. This was his third trophy as a Real Madrid player.
Gareth-Bale.com is a fansite devoted to professional Welsh footballer who currently plays for La Liga side Real Madrid, Gareth Bale. Gareth (Frank) Bale was born in Cardiff on July 16th 1989. His dad’s name is Frank (school caretaker) and his mom’s name is Debbie (operations manager). He went to Eglwys Newydd Primary School at Whitchurch. He was spoted by the Southamptom scouts right in this school at the age of 9 while playing 6v6 tournament.
After scoring 26 goals in 44 matches last season, Bale joined Real Madrid in September 2013. In Madrid he has been reunited with Luka Modric, his old teammate at Spurs and has brought his attacking potential to a Madrid team that with Cristiano Ronaldo was already a major force. Bale shirtBuy now! When speed and skill come together, the result is called Gareth Bale. Gareth is a very complete midfielder and has a lethal weapon in his left foot.
Bale made his senior international debut for Wales in May 2006, becoming the youngest player at that point to represent the nation. He has since earned over 50 caps and scored 19 international goals, making him Wales' joint fifth-highest scorer of all time. Bale started the 2014–15 season in good form, playing the full 90 minutes and assisting Cristiano Ronaldo 's first goal in a 2–0 win at the Cardiff City Stadium against Sevilla to win the 2014 UEFA Super Cup. This was his third trophy as a Real Madrid player.
As of January 22nd, 2012, Gareth Bale currently plays for Tottenham Hotspur. Gareth Bale in a Welsh footballer. He plays for Tottenham Hotspurs mainly as a Left Winger. Although he initially came to the scene as Left Back. He had a great 2009/2010 se … ason helping Spurs to 4th spot in the Premier League.
Bale scored on his Real Madrid debut, a goal coming in the 38th minute against Villarreal, before being substituted later in the game for Ángel ángel Di. Maria'maría bale s second Appearance for madrid came in–a 6 1 Victory over galatasaray In The. champions league Bale started the 2014–15 season in good form, playing the full 90 minutes and assisting Cristiano Ronaldo 's first goal in a 2–0 win at the Cardiff City Stadium against Sevilla to win the 2014 UEFA Super Cup. This was his third trophy as a Real Madrid player.
comments. Gareth Bale has reiterated his desire to play in the Champions League. Paris Saint-Germain and Real Madrid are both desperate to land Bale this summer in the wake of Tottenham's failure to qualify for the Champions League. And in an interview with Esquire, Bale has spelled out what Europe's elite competition means to him. Scroll down to listen to the Champions League theme. New look: Tottenham and Wales star Gareth Bale is featured in the latest issue of Esquire. He said: 'When you play in the Premier League, say you're playing against a lower-end team, they set up to defend all the time, they set up to block you off.
New: Gareth Bale dribbling drill. Reuters Pictures. Gareth Bale is the rising star of the English Premier League, and therefore, who wouldn't want to learn how to play like he does. He plays with an energy and excitement that many players lack. He's not afraid to take players on, rather, that's what he loves to do. Gareth Bale Versus Inter Milan. So, if you want to play like Gareth Bale you have to develop the ability to whip the ball in at pace. Bale crosses the ball much like David Beckham, as he wraps his foot around the ball to bend into the on running forward. Keys to paying like Gareth Bale: 1  Change of pace.