DEFINITION of 'Implied Contract '. A legal substitute for a contract. An implied contract is an agreement created by actions of the parties involved, but it is not written or spoken. This is a contract assumed to have been drawn. In this case, there is no written record nor any actual verbal agreement. A form of an implied contract is an implied warranty provided automatically by law.
An express contract is differs from a contract implied in fact only in the mode of manifesting assent and the mode of proof required; the distinction involves no difference in legal effect. Both forms of contract require mutual assent and a meeting of the minds, but an express contract is proved by an actual agreement where a contract impled in fact is proved by circumstances and the conduct of the parties.
Express Contract Law & Legal Definition. An express contract is a contract whose terms the parties have explicitly set out. This is also termed as special contract. In an express contract, all the elements would be specifically stated. In an express contract, the agreement of the parties is expressed in words, either in oral or written form. For example, where a landlord presents “A” with a preprinted lease on the apartment that “A” wants and if he agrees to the terms and signs it, then it is an express, written contract. 
n. a contract in which all elements of a contract are specifically stated (offer, acceptance, consideration), and the terms are stated, as compared to an implied contract in which the existence of the contract is assumed by the circumstances. (See: contract, implied contract). 1  Facebook. 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. An express contract is a legally binding agreement between two parties, where all the essential terms of the contract are explicitly stated, either orally or in writing. 
n. a contract in which all elements are specifically stated (offer, acceptance, consideration), and the terms are stated, as compared to an implied contract in which the existence of the contract is assumed by the circumstances. 
There are two types of contracts: an expressed contract, which states the promises in clear language, and an implied contract, which is where behaviors or actions lead parties to believe an agreement exists. The contract Miguel entered into is an expressed contract because the elements are specifically stated, including offer, acceptance and consideration. To break it down, a contract contains six elements: 1  An offer. 2  Acceptance of the offer. 3  Consideration. 4  Mutual assent. 5  Capacity. 6  Legally accepted term
Definition. Consists of obligations arising from a mutual agreement and intent to promise where the agreement and promise have not been expressed in words. Such contracts are implied from facts and circumstances showing a mutual intent to contract, and may arise by the conduct of the parties. A contract may not be implied where an enforceable express contract exists between the parties as to the same subject matter. To establish the existence of an implied in fact contract, it is necessary to show: an unambiguous offer, unambiguous acceptance, mutual intent to be bound, and consideration.
An exchange of promises in which the terms by which the parties agree to be bound are declared either orally or in writing, or a combination of both, at the time it is made. Both forms of contract require mutual assent and a meeting of the minds, but an express contract is proved by an actual agreement where a contract impled in fact is proved by circumstances and the conduct of the parties.