1 4. Pineapple – Pineapples can take longer to regrow, and some won’t reproduce unless they are cross-pollinated, but pineapples can be regenerated from a store-bought plant by slicing off the top (with the green top) and planting this in a similar manner. 2  It can go directly into the soil, and left to grow in this manner. 
In pineapple, the introduced cystatin may have delayed nematode growth and reproduction rather than reducing fecundity. As transgenic options for nematode control are explored in pineapple, it will be important to assay sufficiently large numbers of plants from each line. The Hawaiian pineapple industry utilizes 16,000 acres, directly employs 1300 people and produces 315,000 tons of fruit. The future of the Hawaiian pineapple industry will depend on its ability to remain competitive in today's global market.
The seeds of a pineapple are viable but notoriously slow to germinate and often will not sprout at all. Because of this, only select growers grow pineapples from seed. The seeds themselves are found in pollinated plants and appear within the soft flesh near the tough outer skin of the fruit. Plant pineapple seeds in well-drained soil that is kept moist by frequent watering and misting. Slips. The pineapple produces several plantlets near the base of the fruit called slips. These slips appear as red or green outgrowths along the stalk. Pinch them away from the main plant and plant them in the ground at a depth of between 3 and 6 inches.
Capital Press. An international fruit company has won approval from the USDA to ship genetically engineered pineapple into the U.S. The Del Monte Fresh Produce Co., based in the Cayman Islands, has developed a transgenic pineapple that has tissue of a novel rose color.. According to Del Monte's submission, pineapples are commercially grown in a monoculture that prevents seed production, as the plant's flowers aren't exposed to compatible pollen sources. Even if a seed did form, it would be unlikely to germinate and grow without human intervention, the company said.
The pineapple puts forth shoots from the base of the fruit, leaves, or stem. Shoots from the base of the fruit are called slips, those growing from the axils (base of the leaves) are suckers, and the underground shoots from the stem base are ratoons [26] . These shoots are all capable of growing into new plants. If a pineapple were to be cross-pollinated and develop seeds, there would be hundreds of tiny brown seeds in a single syncarp, with one seed for each individual fruit in the fused pineapple [41] . A unique feature of pineapples is that the fruit does not continue to ripen after it has been picked.
Vegetative reproduction (vegetative propagation, vegetative multiplication, vegetative cloning) is a form of asexual reproduction in plants. It is a process by which new organisms arise without production of seeds or spores. It can occur naturally or be induced by horticulturists. 1 Another type of a vegetative reproduction is the production of bulbs. 2  Plants like onion (Allium cepa), hyacinth (Hyacinth), narcissus (Narcissus) and tulips (Tulipa) reproduce by forming bulbs.
Pineapples have adventitious roots that grow from the base of the stem, as well as some aerial roots. The adventitious roots extend into the soil and grow up to 2 meters long and 85 cm deep, but their growth may be restricted if the pineapple is not cultivated in proper soil [11] . If a pineapple were to be cross-pollinated and develop seeds, there would be hundreds of tiny brown seeds in a single syncarp, with one seed for each individual fruit in the fused pineapple [41] . A unique feature of pineapples is that the fruit does not continue to ripen after it has been picked.
Suckers. Suckers are the outcropping leaves of a pineapple. Produce a new pineapple from a sucker by cutting it carefully from the base stalk and planting it 3 to 6 inches into moist, loamy soil that drains well. Slips. The pineapple produces several plantlets near the base of the fruit called slips. These slips appear as red or green outgrowths along the stalk. Pinch them away from the main plant and plant them in the ground at a depth of between 3 and 6 inches.
Like other parts of this bromeliad, the crown features all the genetic material necessary to replicate the parent plant. Cut the top quarter of the pineapple from the rest of the fruit. Next, soak the bottom of the crown in water for 1 to 2 days to absorb the maximum amount of moisture before planting. Slips. The pineapple produces several plantlets near the base of the fruit called slips. These slips appear as red or green outgrowths along the stalk. Pinch them away from the main plant and plant them in the ground at a depth of between 3 and 6 inches.