Method 1 of 2: Requesting a Police Report by Mail or Online. 1. Determine which law enforcement agency to request the report from. In general, you request a police report from the law enforcement agency for the city where the incident took place. 1  Find the contact information for the appropriate police department online. 3. Download Adobe Reader if necessary. If your local police department allows you to download a copy of its police report request form, there's a good chance it will be a pdf. Although some computers come equipped with pdf-reading software, not all do.
Upon completion of this report process you will: 1  Be notified that your online police report has been submitted. 2  This indicates that your police report is complete. 3  Be given a temporary police report case number. 4  Be able to print a copy of the police report to keep for your records. In order to make a report using the Online Reporting Tool, please ensure that ALL of the following conditions are present: 1  The event took place in the District of Columbia, but not on Metrorail, Metrobus, or Metro property. 2  The suspects are not known to you. 3  The suspects have left the scene.
Monday through Friday (closed on City Holidays). All police reports are filed in Police Records which is the official custodian for the Tulsa Police Department. The Oklahoma Open Records Act provides for public access to defined Open Records. City of Tulsa Mayoral Executive Order 95-04 states that the City of Tulsa shall comply with the Open Records Act. 
1 Be notified that your online police report has been submitted. 2  This indicates that your police report is complete. 3  Be given a temporary police report case number. 4  Be able to print a copy of the police report to keep for your records. In order to make a report using the Online Reporting Tool, please ensure that ALL of the following conditions are present: 1  The event took place in the District of Columbia, but not on Metrorail, Metrobus, or Metro property. 2  The suspects are not known to you. 3  The suspects have left the scene.
By law, certain police records and violation reports maintained by the Police Department are accessible to the general public. To obtain a copy of a police report you must complete a request form, or a request for public records. Then, you must either mail or deliver the request for the law enforcement documents to the appropriate Police Department. Some sheriff’s offices and government departments have online forms or email contacts to submit requests online. A fee is usually required to obtained copies of the document. When an individual wishes to file the report, they usually begin by calling 911 to report the incident. Then, law enforcement officers arrive on the scene, evaluate the situation, interview witnesses, record data, and complete the forms required by their local police department.
Knowing the name of the officer who took the report also will be helpful. Locate the correct law enforcement agency that filed the report. If the incident took place inside a city jurisdiction you will need to locate the police department. If the incident occurred outside a city, you will need to locate the sheriff's department. Travel to the appropriate law enforcement agency. Inform the desk clerk that you are looking for a police report. Provide the names, date and location of the report. Complete any forms required by the department for report requests. Present payment for copies of the reports you are requesting.
1 Find the contact information for the appropriate police department online. 2  Depending on the jurisdiction, you may only be able to request the report if you were directly involved in the incident. 3  However, some areas allow anyone to file a report, including lawyers, agents, and family members. 3. Download Adobe Reader if necessary. If your local police department allows you to download a copy of its police report request form, there's a good chance it will be a pdf. Although some computers come equipped with pdf-reading software, not all do.
A police report is a written account that law enforcement has documented regarding crime, accidents, or incidences where police are needed to resolve issues with the public. Reports will include specifics on suspects, victims, details of the crime, and a description of the monetary value of property loss. Police Reports are public information and agencies are required to provide civilians access to reports. In some cases a judge may make a specific ruling preventing their release. Your right to obtain police reports and records is based on the U.S. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).