A portrait is a painting, photograph, sculpture, or other artistic representation of a person, in which the face and its expression is predominant. The intent is to display the likeness, personality, and even the mood of the person. For this reason, in photography a portrait is generally not a snapshot, but a composed image of a person in a still position.
Portraiture is a Photoshop, Lightroom and Aperture plugin that eliminates the tedious manual labor of selective masking and pixel-by-pixel treatments to help you achieve excellence in portrait retouching. What makes Portraiture’s masking tool truly unique is its built-in Auto-Mask feature. It helps you quickly discover most of the skin tone range of the image automatically and, if preferred, you can manually fine-tune it to ensure optimal results, providing unmatched precision and productivity.
One of the common misconceptions about portrait photography is that it is but a snapshot or a photograph of a person. This is not true. In portrait photography or portraiture, a composed or “rehearsed” image of a person in a still position is captured. What portrait photographers or portraiture photographers aim is to focus on the person’s face. They aim to give emphasis on the face of the person because this will also be the focus or the emphasis of the photograph.
Full Definition of PORTRAITURE. 1. : the making of portraits: portrayal. 2. : portrait. Examples of PORTRAITURE. 1  a painter who is master at portraiture. 2  The museum is exhibiting portraiture from the late 19th century.
So, what is portraiture photography? Portraiture photography is actual photography in which a portrait is taken, so that could mean you individually, you with your spouse or partner, or it could be you with your spouse, partner, your kids, or just a family portrait. Cancel. Portraiture photography is when a person, couple or family has their photo taken in a posed manner. Learn how the job of a portrait photographer is to make the subjects look good with information from a TV and video producer in this free video on photography. Part of the Video Series: Music & Video Production.
Artspan Portal: Portraiture. Portraiture is the recording of an individual's appearance and personality, whether in a photograph, a painting or sculpture, or other medium. 
Roman-Egyptian funeral portrait of a young boy. A portrait is a painting, photograph, sculpture, or other artistic representation of a person, in which the face and its expression is predominant. The intent is to display the likeness, personality, and even the mood of the person. For this reason, in photography a portrait is generally not a snapshot, but a composed image of a person in a still position.
portraiture. the art of representing the physical or psychological likeness of a real or imaginary individual. The principal portrait media are painting, drawing, sculpture, and photography. From earliest times the portrait has been considered a means to immortality. 
Portrait Photography is one of most common forms of photography. Portrait photography, which is also called, more often than not, portraiture, is the art of capturing a subject (in this case, a person or a group of people) in which the face, facial features as well as facial expressions are made predominant. What portrait photographers or portraiture photographers aim is to focus on the person’s face. They aim to give emphasis on the face of the person because this will also be the focus or the emphasis of the photograph.
Portrait of a girl in costume in the natural environment of a gothic festival. Portrait photography or portraiture is photography of a person or group of people that displays the expression, personality, and mood of the subject. Like other types of portraiture, the focus of the photograph is usually the person's face, although the entire body and the background or context may be included. The relatively low cost of the daguerreotype in the middle of the 19th century and the reduced sitting time for the subject, though still much longer than now, led to a general rise in the popularity of portrait photography over painted portraiture.