Indices allow investors to gain an insight into the performance of an asset class or a segment of that asset class. Indices are used as the underlying for various financial instruments and to benchmark the performance of portfolios designed to replicate the performance of a given
Key features of indices. Indices are designed to be broad measures of performance of an asset class or a subset of that asset class. So that indices are widely adopted, the methodology used to create an index is often published to give stakeholders an understanding of how decisions governing index calculation are made. Also, indices are sometimes designed to be investable.
Price-weighted and market-weighted indices. There are two main kinds of index, with each using a different formula to determine the index's price. Market value/ capitalisation weighted indices base the weighting that a company has in the index on the company's total market value. Basically, the bigger the company, the bigger the influence they will have on the index as a whole. Market value weighted indices are the most common type. The FTSE100 is one example. Price-weighted indices base the weighting that a company has in the index on the company's share price. Companies with large market capitalisations have the biggest influence on
There are indices for almost every conceivable sector of the economy and stock market. Many investors are familiar with these indices through index funds and exchange-traded funds whose investment objectives are to track the performance of a particular index.
A statistical measure of change in an economy or a securities market. In the case of financial markets, an index is an imaginary portfolio of securities representing a particular market or a portion of it. Each index has its own calculation methodology and is usually expressed in terms of a change from a base value.
The red blood cell indices (RBC indices) are part of a routine blood test called the complete blood count (CBC). The CBC is used as a measure of general health. It measures the quantity and physical characteristics of different populations of cells found in the blood.