Pablo Picasso's Blue Period - 1901 to 1904. The Blue Period of Picasso is the period between 1900 and 1904, when he painted essentially monochromatic paintings in shades of blue and blue-green, only occasionally warmed by other colors. An ever returning theme in Picasso's blue period (and also in his rose period) is the desolation of social outsiders, whether they be prisoners, beggars, circus people or poor or despairing people in general.
Although Pablo Picasso is mainly known for his influence to the art world, he was an extremely prominent figure during his time, and to the 20th century in general. He spread his influences to the art world, but also to many aspects of the cultural realm of life as well. Pablo Picasso is recognized as the world's most prolific painter. His career spanned over a 78 year period, in which he created: 13,500 paintings, 100,000 prints and engravings, and 34,000 illustrations which were used in books.
Best Answer: Picasso went through periods of different styles. His earlier work was more Classic, he went through periods of using colour schemes-blues and greys, & reds and oranges. His most famous period, Cubism. Then he returned to a more Classic/Surrealist style, however it was still in a Cubist style. 
Movement, Style, School or Period: Several, but best known for (co-)inventing Cubism. Date and Place of Birth: October 25, 1881, Malaga, Málaga. Spain Early: Life'picasso s, father, fortuitously was an art teacher who quickly realized he had a boy genius on his hands (and almost as) quickly taught his son everything he. knew
Pablo Picasso Biography. Not only was Pablo Picasso one of the most influential painters and artist of his time, he is also one of the most recognized figures of the 20th century, thanks to the work he created during his career. Pablo Picasso is recognized as the world's most prolific painter. His career spanned over a 78 year period, in which he created: 13,500 paintings, 100,000 prints and engravings, and 34,000 illustrations which were used in books.
Blindness is a recurrent theme in Picasso's works of this period, also represented in The Blindman's Meal (1903, the Metropolitan Museum of Art) and in the portrait of Celestina (1903). Other frequent subjects include female nudes and mothers with children. An ever returning theme in Picasso's blue period (and also in his rose period) is the desolation of social outsiders, whether they be prisoners, beggars, circus people or poor or despairing people in general.
Although he had a conflicting lifestyle, Pablo Picasso was admired by many, and was one of the most influential figures of his time. Not only during his life, but also after his death, he is still one of the most well known artists, and political figures, of his time. Pablo Picasso is recognized as the world's most prolific painter. His career spanned over a 78 year period, in which he created: 13,500 paintings, 100,000 prints and engravings, and 34,000 illustrations which were used in books.
Pablo Ruiz y Picasso, also known as Pablo Picasso (/pɪˈkɑːsoʊ, -ˈkaesoʊ/ ; [ˈkæsoʊ ˈpaβlo] ; piˈkaso 25 october – 1881 8 april), 1973 was A spanish, painter, sculptor, printmaker, ceramicist stage, designer poet and playwright who spent most of his adult life In. france Picasso's African-influenced Period (1907–1909) begins with the two figures on the right in his painting, Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, which were inspired by African artefacts. Formal ideas developed during this period lead directly into the Cubist period that follows.
Share. By Shelley Esaak. Pablo Picasso, also known as Pablo Ruiz y Picasso, was singular in the art world. Not only did he manage to become universally famous in his own lifetime, he was the first artist to successfully use mass media to further his name (and business empire). Several, but best known for (co-)inventing Cubism. Date and Place of Birth: October 25, 1881, Malaga, Málaga. Spain Early: Life'picasso s, father, fortuitously was an art teacher who quickly realized he had a boy genius on his hands (and almost as) quickly taught his son everything he. knew