In eukaryotic cells, the membrane that surrounds the nucleus — commonly called the nuclear envelope — partitions this DNA from the cell's protein synthesis machinery, which is located in the cytoplasm.
A double-layered membrane, the nuclear envelope, separates contents of the nucleus from the cellular cytoplasm. The envelope is riddled with holes called nuclear pores that allow specific types and sizes of molecules to pass back and forth between the nucleus and the
There are two basic types of cells, prokaryotes and eukaryotes.  Eukaryotes differ from prokaryotes in a few ways, but the biggest  difference is that eukaryotes have a nucl … eus and prokaryotes don't.
Confidence votes 38. There are two basic types of cells, prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Eukaryotes differ from prokaryotes in a few ways, but the biggest difference is that eukaryotes have a nucleus and prokaryotes don't.
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival.
The nucleus is called the headquarters of the cell. It is a large dark spot in eukaryotic cells. It controls all cell activity. Zoom in close an you will see that the nuclear membrane has many pores. The nuclear membrane is continuous with the E.R. Cut the nucleus open to get a better look inside.
A cell with a true nucleus is a eukaryotic cell, whereas a cell without a nucleus is a prokaryote. Though the nucleus stores the cell's DNA information, prokaryotes still have … DNA information which is simply unorganized in the cell.
Mitosis is the division of cell's nucleus and results in two identical daughter cells, whereas meiosis is where the nucleus divides to form 4 gametes (in females, only 1 survi … ves).
In prokaryotes, the DNA (chromosome) is in contact with the cellular cytoplasm and is not in a housed membrane-bound nucleus. In eukaryotes, however, the DNA takes the form of compact chromosomes separated from the rest of the cell by a nuclear membrane (also called a nuclear envelope).