The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. 
A. Your first period may last from two to seven days. Then, there might be 30 to 40 days, or even longer, before you have another period. Your next period might be heavier or lighter than the first. Don't worry if you have your first period and then don't have another for four to six months. This irregularity is normal at first. Your periods should become regular within two years after you start menstruating. Some teens have a 28-day cycle; some have a 24-day cycle; others have a 30- to 34-day cycle.
On an average a period lasts between 3 to 5 days. It is normal for a girl to have irregular periods in the beginning. During this time, the duration of her periods may vary from as short as 2 days to as long as 7 days. It can take up to a year for periods to become regular. 
Don't worry if your early periods have longer cycles or don't follow a schedule. This irregularity is normal for at least the first 2 years. Your periods should become more regular within two years after you start menstruating. Some teens have a 28-day cycle; some have a 24-day cycle; others have a 30- to 34-day cycle. All of these are normal. For young teens, cycles can range from 21 to 45 days. For adults, it can be 21-35 day
When you first start having your period, it may last only a few days. Your first few periods may be very light. You may only see a few spots of reddish brown blood. Anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. A menstrual cycle is counted from the first day of bleeding in one month to the first day of bleeding in the next month. The average menstrual cycle is about 28 days, but cycles that are 21–45 days also are normal. It may take 6 years or more after your period starts for your cycle to get regular. If you do this every month, you may notice a pattern. It may become easier to tell when you will get your next period
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It depends on the woman. Some have periods that last only about three days, some have periods that last eight days or more. (Average is about 4-7 days). Also, it is a misconception that females bleed a lot - it is actually only a few ounces' worth over the span of a week. The heaviness of the bleeding also varies depending the day. 
Best Answer: Hi! Periods can last from 3-7 days. Most girls periods last 5 days though. You probably will still be on your period, but it is the 4th day so it most likely won't be too heavy.
During a period, there are usually 2-3 days of relatively heavy bleeding followed by 2-4 days of lighter flow. The fluid during a menstrual period is a mixture of uterine lining tissue and blood. The total mo nthly menstrual loss varies from about 4 to 12 teaspoons. 
How long does your period last? Generally, the bleeding lasts for 3-7 days, although longer than a  week is not uncommon. The entire cycle usually lasts for roughly a  month (28 days), but the cycles can b … e long or short while still  during puberty. 
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. 1 Your periods become very irregular after having had regular, monthly cycles. 2  Your period occurs more often than every 21 days or less often than every 35 days. 3  You are bleeding for more than 7 days. 4  You are bleeding more heavily than usual or using more than 1 pad or tampon every 1 to 2 hours.