QUESTION: What happened to Joseph the father of Jesus. ANSWER: We know very little about the years of Jesus prior to His public ministry. The gospels are without notation of any childhood events beyond Christ's birth except one reference that is found in Luke. Matthew 1:24-25 says, When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife. But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son.
It is supposed that Joseph, the father of Jesus, died during the quiet years of Jesus' life. We do know that he trained Jesus in his trade, as that of a carpenter. He do know that Joseph and Mary had children after Jesus was born: James, Joses, Simon, and others. Perhaps the cause or timing of his death is not nearly as important as the strength of character he displayed. In first hearing about Mary's pregnancy, Joseph did not want to subject Mary to public scorn. After hearing from the angel who confirmed Mary's incredulous story, Joseph obediently accepted the role as surrogate father for the baby Jesus, the Christ child. Matthew 1:24-25 says, When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife. But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son.
Q. Of all the gospel accounts, Luke goes into the most detail about the life of Jesus’ earthly dad, Joseph. In Luke, it talks about how he and Mary had to go back to Jerusalem to find the 12 year old Jesus who ended up being left behind. Of course, we know they found him in the temple; talking to the teachers.
Answer: The last time Joseph is mentioned in the Bible is when Jesus was twelve years old. Returning from a trip to Jerusalem, Jesus became separated from His parents, who eventually found Him in the temple conversing with the teachers. The theory that Joseph had died by the time Jesus was an adult is given further credibility by the fact that Jesus, when He was on the cross, made arrangements for His mother to be cared for by the apostle John (John 19:26-27).
Report Abuse. Re: St. Joseph, not much is known....it is assumed that he lived until Jesus' ministry began at 30 years of age...but that is just conjecture. The Blessed Virgin Mary lived a long life...she was at Jesus' Crucifixion and the Blessed Apostle John took her to his home and cared for her until her death. 
Profile of Joseph the Father of Jesus Christ: God chose Joseph to be the earthly father of Jesus. The Bible tells us in the Gospel of Matthew, that Joseph was a righteous man. His actions toward Mary, his fiance, revealed he was a kind and sensitive man. When Mary told Joseph she was pregnant, he had every right to feel disgraced. 
His mothers' name was Mary. She was married to Joseph. Joseph was not the actual father of Jesus but adopted Him upon His birth. Jesus was conceived of the Holy Spirit. Joseph was prominent only in the accounts surrounding Jesus' birth, flight to Egypt, and return. He is mentioned in the story of Jesus and the Temple
Joseph was the husband of Mary but not the biological father of Jesus. The New Testament makes this quite clear. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about: His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit (Matthew 1:18). She was married to Joseph. Joseph was not the actual father of Jesus but adopted Him upon His birth. Jesus was conceived of the Holy Spirit. Joseph was prominent only in the accounts surrounding Jesus' birth, flight to Egypt, and return.
Joseph (Hebrew יוֹסֵף, Yosef; Greek: ἰωσήφ, Ioseph) is a figure in the Gospels, the husband of Mary, the mother of Jesus, and is venerated as Saint Joseph in some Christian traditions. Christian tradition places Joseph as Jesus ' foster father. According to Matthew 1:16 Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, while according to Luke 3:23, Joseph is said to be  [the son] of Heli . Some scholars reconcile the genealogies by viewing the Solomonic lineage in Matthew as Joseph's major royal line, and the Nathanic lineage in Luke to be Mary's minor line.