For instance, in women in the lowest 5th percentile of the blood pressure readings, we observed a constant blood pressure of 60 mm Hg up to the age of 50 years (Figure 2). An increase in this percentile of the diastolic blood pressure by 10 mm Hg only occurred within a 15-year period (51–65 years). Wright et al. reported an age-related increase in blood pressure readings ranging from 13 mm Hg in the 5th percentile to 53 mm Hg in the 95th percentile in women, and only 2 mm Hg in the 5th percentile and 31 mm Hg in the 95th percentile in men.
and 7). Distribution of systolic and diastolic blood pressure Tables 8–13 present estimated percentiles of systolic and diastolic blood pressure for sex, race or ethnicity, age, and hypertension status categories. For treated hypertensive persons, the 75th percentile estimates were above the hypertension cutpoint of 140 mm Hg systolic blood pressure for non-Hispanic white adults aged 60 and over and for non-Hispanic black and Mexican-American adults aged 40–59 and aged 60 and over.
Selected percentiles of systolic blood pressure (mm Hg) for adults aged 18 and over, by hypertension status, race or ethnicity, 75th and age: 173 United States, National Health and Nutrition Examination age-adjusted Survey, 2001–2008 Hypertension statusTotal percentile Normal percentile. age, and hypertension status categories. For treated hypertensive persons, the 75th percentile estimates were above the hypertension cutpoint of 140 mm Hg systolic blood pressure for non-Hispanic white adults aged 60 and over and for non-Hispanic black and Mexican-American adults aged 40–59 and aged 60 and over.
Definition. Hypertension is not commonly diagnosed in newborn infants. The incidence in infants discharged from neonatal units ranges from 0.7% to 2.0%. Hypertension is defined by a systolic blood pressure in a neonate which is ≥95 th percentile for age and sex on 3 separate occasions. The gold standard for blood pressure measurement is an appropriately calibrated intra-arterial catheter.
The 50th, 90th, 95th, and 99th percentiles for systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) according to height, sex, and age are given for boys and girls. The updated blood pressure (BP) tables for children and adolescents are based on recently revised child height percentiles and also include the BP data from the 1999-2000 NHANES.
Normal blood pressure values for children and adolescents are based on age, sex, and height, and are available in standardized tables. Prehypertension is defined as a blood pressure in at least the 90th percentile, but less than the 95th percentile, for age, sex, and height, or a measurement of 120/80 mm Hg or greater. Hypertension is defined as blood pressure in the 95th percentile or greater. A secondary etiology of hypertension is much more likely in children than in adults, with renal parenchymal disease and renovascular disease being the most common.
At median height, the age-specific differences in 95th percentiles of SBP ranged from -4 to 4 mm Hg in boys and -2 to 1 mm Hg in girls and, for DBP, from -6 to 2 mm Hg in boys and -5 to 2 mm Hg in girls. Blood pressure percentiles by age and height from nonoverweight children and adolescents in Germany. Neuhauser HK, Thamm M, Ellert U, Hense HW, Rosario AS. OBJECTIVES: To present oscillometric blood pressure (BP) references from German nonoverweight children and compare them with US references.
1 Stage I hypertension is defined as either Systolic BP or Diastolic BP between the 95th percentile and the 99th percentile plus 5 mmHg. 2  Stage II hypertension is defined as either Systolic BP or Diastolic BP greater than the 99th percentile plus 5 mmHg. Diastolic BP Percentile Interpretation. 1 
1 In this calculator, the subject's blood pressure percentiles are based on age and height percentile. 2  Stage I hypertension is defined as either Systolic BP or Diastolic BP between the 95th percentile and the 99th percentile plus 5 mmHg. 
Gender-specific systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) BP percentiles, which simultaneously accounted for age and height by use of advanced statistical methods, were derived from nonoverweight children to avoid overweight prevalence in the reference population influencing BP references. Blood pressure percentiles by age and height from nonoverweight children and adolescents in Germany. Neuhauser HK, Thamm M, Ellert U, Hense HW, Rosario AS. OBJECTIVES: To present oscillometric blood pressure (BP) references from German nonoverweight children and compare them with US