Salary Questions. Pinning down Mike Golic’s income can be a challenge. First, he has an accumulated net worth that is far greater then his salary. His net worth puts him at about 9 millions dollars. Currently, Mike Golic works as a co-host on the ESPN Radio show Mike & Mike. 
Mike Golic's Salary. $5 Million. Mike Golic net worth and salary: Mike Golic is an American television sports anchor who has a net worth of $15 million. Mike Golic is most famous for being a co-host of ESPN Radio's Mike and Mike show and as a former defensive lineman for both Notre Dame and in the NFL. Golic joined ESPN in 1995 as a reporter/analyst for Sunday NFL Countdown. In 2006, Golic met Mike Greenberg and the Mike & Mike show was born.
Mike Greenberg's Salary. $5 Million. Mike Greenberg net worth and salary: Mike Greenberg is an American sports anchor and radio host who has a net worth of $14 million. Mike Greenberg probably best known for his weekday ESPN Radio and TV show, the Mike & Mike show. He hosts with former NFL player Mike Golic.
Former NFL defenseman, Mike has done well for him financially. Working for 8 years as NFl veteran and for almost 19 years in ESPN in small and big unique shows, Golic has earned net worth of $ 9 million dollars. His salary on ESPN is expected to be in between $200-300 thousand a year.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. On First Take the other day, it was said that Skip Bayless had a $20,000,000 contract with espn and Stephen A. Smith had a $30,000,000 contract!! and that is for only a 2 hour show. Mike and Mike are a 4 hour show. How much does mike golic and mike greenberg get paid? i want to know what there salaries are and if they get a straight pay or if they get more for doing other things such as NFL Live, Sportscenter, etc.
Michael Darrow Mike Greenberg (born August 6, 1967) is a television anchor, television show host, radio show host for ESPN and ABC, and novelist. At ESPN, he hosts the weekday evening, most often Monday, SportsCenter and ESPN Radio 's Mike & Mike show with Mike Golic. 
About Mike Greenberg. American television anchor, television show host, and radio host, Michael James “Mike” Greenberg has an estimated net worth of $6 million with an annual salary of $2 million. Mike Greenberg has made he net worth as an anchor, TV host, as well as a radio host for ESPN and ABC. Greenberg was born in New York city on August 6, 1967, he is best known for the weekday evening show on ESPN called SportsCenter
But nothing happened as Greenberg came out in public by apologizing for his tongue slip. Mike Greenberg’s net worth, which he earned as a host, reporter, and author, is an estimated $6 million. His annual salary is $2 million dollars. At this age, he has accomplished a great deal in this line of work. For more information on Greenberg, you can read about his brief profile in Wikipedia. 