Across. 3. The zone below the lithosphere. It is more 'plastic' than the lithosphere so it is easier to bend and move. 6. The most outer solid portion of the planet Earth. 8. The outer part of the Earth's crust. it is composed of solid rock. 10. Places where new seafloor is being created
Best Answer: lithosphere is the solid outermost shell of a rocky planet. On the Earth, the lithosphere includes the crust and the uppermost layer of the mantle (the upper mantle or lower lithosphere) which is joined to the crust. for more see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithosphere... Asthenosphere is the region of the Earth between 100-200 km below the surface — but perhaps extending as deep as 400 km — that is the weak or soft zone in the upper mantle.
The lithosphere of the Earth is composed of the crust and the upper part of the upper mantle, and is broken up into plates. Below the lithosphere is the asthenosphere, which i … s the lower part of the upper mantle and the entire lower mantle. The asthenosphere is a plastic-like substance that flows due to convection. As this substance flows, it causes the plates above it to move around. The boundary between the asthenosphere and the lithosphere is normally below the Moho (which marks the boundary between the crust and the mantle). The exception to this is b … elow mid-ocean ridges where the moho and the lithosphere / asthenosphere boundary are at the same depth. 3 people found this useful.
The lithosphere (from the Greek for rocky sphere) is the solid outermost shell of a rocky planet. On the Earth, the lithosphere includes the crust and the uppermost layer of the mantle (the upper mantle or lower lithosphere) which is joined to the crust. for more see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithosphere... Asthenosphere is the region of the Earth between 100-200 km below the surface — but perhaps extending as deep as 400 km — that is the weak or soft zone in the upper mantle.
The asthenosphere is a part of the upper mantle just below the lithosphere that is involved in plate tectonic movement and isostatic adjustments. In the old oceanic mantle the transition from the lithosphere to the asthenosphere, the so-called lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary (LAB) is shallow (about 60 km in some regions) with a sharp and large velocity drop (5-10%).
The asthenosphere (from Greek ἀσθενής asthenḗs 'weak' + sphere) is the highly viscous, mechanically weak and ductilely deforming region of the upper mantle of the Earth. It lies below the lithosphere, at depths between approximately 80 and 200 km (50 and 120 miles) below the surface. The Lithosphere-Asthenosphere boundary is usually referred to as LAB. The asthenosphere is generally solid, although some of its regions could be melted (e.g. below mid-ocean ridge). In the old oceanic mantle the transition from the lithosphere to the asthenosphere, the so-called lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary (LAB) is shallow (about 60 km in some regions) with a sharp and large velocity drop (5-10%).
Because of this the continents ride on the denser oceanic plates. The crust and the upper layer of the mantle together make up a zone of rigid, brittle rock called the Lithosphere. The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistancy called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Mantle. The mantle is the layer located directly under the sima. It is the largest layer of the Earth, 1800 miles thick. 
Plate movements occur because the layer of Earth directly below the lithosphere, the asthenosphere, is hot enough, and under enough lithostatic pressure to prevent its melting … , that it can deform without fracture. 