Depending on the variety, tomato plants grow from 6 inches to 20 feet tall. It's important to know how tall your tomato plant will grow because tall tomato plants become top heavy and must be staked. Stakes need to be tall enough to support the plants when they are fully grown.
The Rutgers tomato is a superior heirloom tomato variety. It was once the top performing commercial variety. It is still popular in the home garden. Rutgers tomatoes are a mid-season, main crop variety with good flavor. Description: Vigorous, indeterminate plants grow up to 6 feet tall. Strong, healthy vines, with heavy foliage, will produce up to frost. Rutgers tomatoes have a pleasing flavor, smooth skin with no cracking, and a firm, uniform flesh. The heavy foliage reduces sun scald.
Being an annual / perennial, it tends to grow either as a single season plant, or a plant that can stay in your garden for many years. Rutgers is known for its Vine habit and growing to a height of approximately 1.20 metres (3.90 feet). Determinate, thick fleshed, bred to be a canning tomato. Plants can reach 7-feet tall. United States is believed to be where Rutgers originates from.
Rutgers tomatoes are a smaller (12-14 ounces), globe-shaped variety created in the 1930s to produce a tasty, hearty, and versatile fruit. The plant is an indeterminate grower that typically does not grow higher than around 36, needing 70-80 days to reach maturity.
Red Roma tomatoes usually grow to about 4 feet, or 48 inches, tall. Not all varieties are limited to this size, however. San Marzano tomato plants can grow up to 62 inches high, or a little over 5 feet, and produce large crops of early fruit.
Support the plants with either wood stakes or wire cages. Stakes should be 6 feet tall for Big Beef tomatoes, and 1 to 2 inches wide, stuck into the ground several inches from the plant. Tie the plant to the stake with a flexible cord.
Determinate tomato varieties usually grow from 3 feet to 5 feet tall. Determinate tomato plants, or bush tomatoes, stop growing earlier than indeterminate varieties and produce their fruit all at once.