Labetalol, urapidil or calcium antagonists are possible alternatives if hydralazine fails or is contraindicated. For patients with catecholamine-induced crises, an alpha-blocker such as phentolamine should be given; labetalol or sodium nitroprusside with beta-blockers are alternatives. There are few, if any, comparative or randomised trials providing definitive conclusions about the efficacy and safety of comparative agents. Comparative tolerability profile of hypertensive crisis treatments. Grossman E(1), Ironi AN, Messerli FH. Author information: (1)Internal Medicine D, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. Hypertensive crisis is defined as a severe elevation in BP and is classified as either urgency or emergency.
Nitroprusside is light sensitive; both bottle and tubing should be wrapped in aluminum foil. Before initiating nitroprusside, administer a beta-blocker to counteract the physiologic response of reflex tachycardia that occurs when nitroprusside is used alone. This physiologic response increases shear forces against the aortic wall, thus increasing dP/dt. The objective is to keep the heart rate at 60-80 bpm. Metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL). Metoprolol is a selective beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker that decreases the automaticity of contractions. During IV administration, carefully monitor the blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram (ECG).
Drugs like metoprolol, carvedilol and bisoprolol are now also part of the drug regimen used to treat patients with chronic heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy (systolic dysfunction). Several trials have documented a survival benefit for patients on long-term beta-blockers. An increase in ejection fraction between 2 and 4 months after initiation of therapy is seen consistently with beta blockers used in patients with systolic heart failure (Figure 8). Carvedilol therapy (Figure 9) in the US Carvedilol Trial was associated with a 65% reduction in mortality. PHENTOLAMINE. A reversible nonselective alpha blocker that has a predominant effect on the arteriolar vascular bed. In the presence of heart failure, the main effect is reduction of afterload and increased cardiac output. Reflex tachycardia is a predominant side effect with this drug.
Initial treatment of aortic dissection involves rapid, controlled titration of arterial pressure to normal levels using intravenous sodium nitroprusside and a beta-blocker. If beta-blockers are contraindicated, urapidil or trimetaphan camsilate are alternatives. Comparative tolerability profile of hypertensive crisis treatments. Grossman E(1), Ironi AN, Messerli FH. Author information: (1)Internal Medicine D, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. Hypertensive crisis is defined as a severe elevation in BP and is classified as either urgency or emergency.
This agent is normally used in conjunction with nitroprusside. It may be useful as a means to test beta-blocker safety and tolerance in patients with a history of obstructive pulmonary disease who are at possible risk of bronchospasm from beta-blockade. The elimination half-life of esmolol is 9 minutes. Metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL). Metoprolol is a selective beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker that decreases the automaticity of contractions. During IV administration, carefully monitor the blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram (ECG).
For acute reduction of arterial pressure, the potent vasodilator sodium nitroprusside is very effective. To reduce dP/dt acutely, administer a beta blocker intravenously (IV) in incremental doses until a heart rate of 60-80 beats/min is attained. When beta blockers are contraindicated, as in second-or third-degree atrioventricular block, consider using calcium-channel blockers. This agent is normally used in conjunction with nitroprusside. It may be useful as a means of testing beta-blocker safety and tolerance in patients with a history of obstructive pulmonary disease who are at uncertain risk for bronchospasm from beta blockade. The elimination half-life of esmolol is 9 minutes.
Nifedipine and other dihydropyridines increase heart rate whereas clonidine, beta-blockers and labetalol tend to decrease it. This is particularly important in patients with ischaemic heart disease. Labetalol and beta-blockers are contraindicated in patients with bronchospasm and bradycardia or heart blocks. Comparative tolerability profile of hypertensive crisis treatments. Grossman E(1), Ironi AN, Messerli FH. Author information: (1)Internal Medicine D, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. Hypertensive crisis is defined as a severe elevation in BP and is classified as either urgency or emergency.
Metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol-XL). Metoprolol is a selective beta 1-adrenergic receptor blocker that decreases the automaticity of contractions. During IV administration, carefully monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiograms. This agent is normally used in conjunction with nitroprusside. It may be useful as a means of testing beta-blocker safety and tolerance in patients with a history of obstructive pulmonary disease who are at uncertain risk for bronchospasm from beta blockade. The elimination half-life of esmolol is 9 minutes.
For acute reduction of arterial pressure, the potent vasodilator sodium nitroprusside is effective. To reduce dP/dt acutely, administer an IV beta-blocker in incremental doses until a heart rate of 60-80 beats/min is attained. Metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL). Metoprolol is a selective beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker that decreases the automaticity of contractions. During IV administration, carefully monitor the blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram (ECG).