Temperate Deciduous Forest ClimateNext to the rainforest the temperate deciduous forest gets the 2nd most amount of rainfall per year. In the winter, precipitation is in the form of sleet, snow, and hail. The average rainfall is 30 to 60 inches per year. The average temperature is 50 degrees F. Summers are mild and average about 70 degrees F. Humidity in these forests is high, from 60% to 80%. Large air masses from cold and warm areas affect the climate. The temperature of deciduous forests average 50 degrees. It collects about 39 to 60 inches of rain in a year.
1 Deciduous Forests Deciduous forests are those where broad-leaved trees grow. 2  The average temperature is 50 degrees and the average rainfall is 30 to 60 inches per year. Summers are mild and average about 70 degrees F. Humidity in these forests is high, from 60% to 80%. Large air masses from cold and warm areas affect the climate. The temperature of deciduous forests average 50 degrees. It collects about 39 to 60 inches of rain in a year.
Location Deciduous biomes are located primarily in the eastern half of the United States, Canada, Europe, parts of Russia, China, and Japan. Climate The average temperature of the forest is about 50 degrees F. The average amount of rainfall in the forest is 30 to 60 inches a year. As the seasons change, so do the colors of the leaves of the deciduous. During the winter months water is generally not available to keep the leaves of some plants alive.
The temperature varies widely from season to season with cold winters and hot, wet summers. The average yearly temperature is about 10°C. The areas in which deciduous forests are located get about 750 to 1,500 mm of precipitation spread fairly evenly throughout the year. During the fall, trees change color and then lose their leaves. This is in preparation for the winter season. 
South America has two big areas of deciduous forests in southern Chile and Middle East coast of Paraguay. There are deciduous forests located in New Zealand, and southeastern Australia also. The average annual temperature in a deciduous forest is 50° F. The average rainfall is 30 to 60 inches a year. In deciduous forests there are five different zones. The first zone is the Tree Stratum zone. Summers are mild and average about 70 degrees F. Humidity in these forests is high, from 60% to 80%. Large air masses from cold and warm areas affect the climate. The temperature of deciduous forests average 50 degrees. It collects about 39 to 60 inches of rain in a year.
If the Earth were not tilted on an axis, temperatures around the globe would always be the same. Temperate deciduous forests also have quite a wet environment. Following rainforests, temperate deciduous forests are the second-rainiest biome. The average yearly precipitation is 30 - 60 inches (75 - 150 cm). This precipitation falls throughout the year, but in the winter it falls as snow. The average temperature in temperate deciduous forests is 50°F (10°C). Summers are mild, and average about 70°F (21°C), while winter temperatures are often well below freezing. PLANTS: Trees and plants in deciduous forests have special adaptations to survive in this biome. 
South America has two big areas of deciduous forests in southern Chile and Middle East coast of Paraguay. There are deciduous forests located in New Zealand, and southeastern Australia also. The average annual temperature in a deciduous forest is 50° F. The average rainfall is 30 to 60 inches a year. In deciduous forests there are five different zones. The first zone is the Tree Stratum zone.
Temperate deciduous forests receive 30 - 60 inches of rain each year and are ranked second only to the rainforest as the rainiest biome. Although the average temperature is 50° F, the winter typically sees temperatures below freezing. The trees of the temperate deciduous forest are deciduous of course. 
One of the most interesting features of the temperate deciduous forest is its four changing seasons. And as the seasons change, so do the colors of the leaves of the deciduous trees. The average temperature of the forest is about 50 degrees Fahrenheit. The average rainfall here in the forest is 30 to 60 inches a year. I f you look at the graph to the left, you'll see that next to the rainforest, the temperate deciduous gets the second-most amount of rainfall per year. In the winter, this is seen as snow.