The tulip poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), also known as yellow poplar, is a fast-growing tree that has a life expectancy of 300 years if growing in optimal conditions. In urban/suburban settings, most specimens will more likely live between 100 to 200 years. Tulip poplars are not poplars but members of the magnolia family. They are tall, fast-growing shade trees that easily grow to 70 to 90 feet and can grow to more than 100 feet. They are considered relatively hardy trees with few insect and disease problems.
Tulip Poplar. Tulip Poplar-Liriodendron tulipiferaMagnolia Family (Magnoliaceae). The tulip poplar (also called tulip tree) is actually more closely related to magnolia than either a tulip or a poplar. The reference to tulips comes from the shape of the greenish yellow and orange flowers. Although the common name suggests it, tulip poplar is not a poplar but in the genus Liriodendron. Leirion is Greek for a lily and dendron is a tree. The specific epithet, tulipifera, refers to the shape of the flowers. Tulip poplar has also been called canoe tree because Native Americans used it to make dugouts.
The Latin Liriodendron actually means lily tree,. The tulip tree is sometimes referred to as tulip poplar or yellow poplar, and the wood simply as poplar, although Liriodendron is not closely related to the true poplars, but is more closely related to magnolia trees. The tree is also called canoewood, saddle-leaf tree, and white wood. Liriodendron trees are easily recognized by their leaves, which are distinctive, having four lobes in most cases and a cross-cut notched or straight apex. Leaf size varies from 8–22 cm long and 6–25 cm wide. The tulip tree is often a large tree, 18–50 m high and 60–120 cm in diameter.
The tulip poplar tree is an excellent shade tree that is very resistant to disease and insects. It is also a fast growing tree but doesn't have the week wood of other fast growing trees such as the sycamore, silver maple, or American elm. 
Yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), also called tuliptree, tulip-poplar, white-poplar, and whitewood, is one of the most attractive and tallest of eastern hardwoods. It is fast growing and may reach 300 years of age on deep, rich, well-drained soils of forest coves and lower mountain slopes. 
Overview. Native to the eastern elevations of North America, the tulip poplar tree (Liriodendron tulipifera) is a deciduous tree that is also known as yellow poplar. It is not a member of the poplar family (Populus sp.), but lumberyards label the wood as poplar wood, shortening the common name of yellow poplar
Liriodendron tulipifera —known as the tulip tree, American tulip tree, tuliptree, tulip poplar, whitewood, fiddle-tree, and yellow poplar —is the Western Hemisphere representative of the two-species genus Liriodendron, and the tallest eastern hardwood. Originally described by Linnaeus, Liriodendron tulipifera is one of two species (see also L.chinense) in the genus Liriodendron in the magnolia family. The name Liriodendron is Greek for lily tree. It is also called the tuliptree Magnolia, or sometimes, by the lumber industry, as the tulip poplar or yellow poplar.
Yellow poplar or tulip poplar is the tallest hardwood tree in North America with one of the most perfect and straight trunks in the forest. Yellow poplar has a very unique leaf with four lobes separated by rounded notches. The showy flower is tulip-like (or lily-like) which supports the alternate name of tulip poplar. 