1 Jatropha is a special plant that produces seeds from which oil can be extracted. 2  Many plants produce oil-bearing seeds, and oils such as sunflower oil, peanut oil, and even canola oil have been used for cooking and flavoring food, lubricating mechanical parts, and even treating a variety of human ailments. How to Use Jatropha as an Energy Source. 1  The oil of the Jatropha plant can be used to effectively power both stationary and mobile diesel engines. 2  Diesel is considered to be a dirtier and less refined fuel source, and many diesel engines are specifically designed to handle the impurities found in diesel fuel.
In 2007, Goldman Sachs cited Jatropha curcas as one of the best candidates for future biodiesel production. It is resistant to drought and pests, and produces seeds containing 27-40% oil, averaging 34.4%. However, despite their abundance and use as oil and reclamation plants, none of the Jatropha species have been properly domesticated and, as a result, their productivity is variable, and the long-term impact of their large-scale use on soil quality and the environment is unknown.
Jatropha is a genus of flowering plants in the spurge family, Euphorbiaceae. The name is derived from the Greek words ἰατρός (iatros), meaning physician, and τροφή (trophe), meaning nutrition, hence the common name physic nut. Another common name is nettlespurge. However, despite their abundance and use as oil and reclamation plants, none of the Jatropha species have been properly domesticated and, as a result, their productivity is variable, and the long-term impact of their large-scale use on soil quality and the environment is unknown.
Enter, Jatropha curcas. Jatropha curca s is a small oleaginous fruit bearing tree from the Euphorbiaceae family that thrives in warm weather and can grow in barren soil. The oil found in its seeds can be converted into a high quality diesel fuel. Since Jatropha is inedible, it does not compete with food crops. Jatropha Biodiesel. The crude oil harvested from Jatropha seeds needs to be processed into a diesel before it can even begin to compete with other energy sources. Jatropha biodiesel is the processed form of Jatropha oil and gets its power from the energy rich bonds found in fatty acid methyl esters (FAME). Here is how manufacturers take oil from a tropical succulent to a high grade biodiesel
Here are some of the uses of jatropha plant: The non edible vegetable oil extracted from the jatropha plant can be used as an alternative to the diesel oil. The jatropha oil has advantageous physicochemical and the characteristic that is equal to diesel. So cars can use this oil with little change in their design. The oil can be used as an illuminant without refining. The jatropha oil burns with clear free smoke and flame. Because of its high saponification the oil is used to make soap in some parts of the world.
The oil from Jatropha curcas is mainly converted into biodiesel for use in diesel engines. The cake can be used for fish or animal feed (if detoxified), biomass feedstock to power electricity plants, or as biogas or high-quality organic fertilizer. It can also be used as a bio-pesticide and for medicinal purposes. However, despite their abundance and use as oil and reclamation plants, none of the Jatropha species have been properly domesticated and, as a result, their productivity is variable, and the long-term impact of their large-scale use on soil quality and the environment is unknown.
Jatropha curcas is a species of flowering plant in the spurge family, Euphorbiaceae, that is native to the American tropics, most likely Mexico and Central America. It is cultivated in tropical and subtropical regions around the world, becoming naturalized in some areas. While Jatropha curcas starts yielding from 9-12 months time, the best yields are obtained only after 2–3 years time. The seed production is around 3.5 tons per hectare (seed production ranges from about 0.4 t/ha in the first year to over 5 t/ha after 3 years).
INTRODUCTION. Jatropha curcus is a drought-resistant perennial, growing well in marginal/poor soil. It is easy to establish, grows relatively quickly and lives, producing seeds for 50 years. Jatropha the wonder plant produces seeds with an oil content of 37%. The oil can be combusted as fuel without being refined. It burns with clear smoke-free flame, tested successfully as fuel for simple diesel engine. The by-products are press cake a good organic fertilizer, oil contains also insecticide.