Fruits have carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, and fiber. They are naturally low in fat (except for avocados) and sodium. Most fruits have more carbs than do vegetables. Best Choices: 1  Plain frozen fruit or fruit canned in fruit juice. 2  Fresh fruit. 3  Sugar-free or low-sugar jam or preserves. 4  No-sugar-added applesauce. Use this list as a guide. Best Choices. 1  Whole-grain flours, such as whole wheat flour. 2  Whole grains, such as brown rice. 3  Cereals containing whole-grain ingredients and little added sugar. 4  Whole-grain bread. 5  Baked sweet or white potato or baked steak fries.
You can get nutrients you may be missing with diabetic vitamins. There are vitamins for diabetics that include the recommended daily amounts of vitamins and minerals to help you manage your overall health. You'll also find daily diabetic vitamins that have higher concentrations of certain minerals and vitamins for specific concerns such as eye health, heart health and more. Choose your diabetic vitamin from brands Beta Fast, Nature Made, Nature's Bounty and Multi-betic.
Vitamins, minerals, and other dietary supplements that claim to fight diabetes are tempting -- yet many may not be worth your money. Top medical organizations don't recommend them. Meanwhile, researchers investigate easy-to-swallow alternatives to prescription medications. Here's what you need to know. The Canadian Diabetes Association Clinical Practice Guidelines state that people with diabetes should be encouraged to meet their nutritional needs by consuming a well-balanced diet. Routine vitamin and mineral supplementation is generally not recommended..
A good diet can supply most if not all of the vitamins and minerals you need. But maintaining such a diet day in and day out can be a challenge, which is why many people take a daily multivitamin–multimineral supplement as a form of insurance. 
In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium. Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ]. Selected food sources of magnesium are listed in Table 2
For example, raspberries contain vitamin C, fiber and antioxidants, Saul points out. In fact, the use of supplements is usually not supported unless a deficiency state is suspected. Well controlled diabetes does not increase the need for supplementary vitamins and minerals. One vitamin that many people, including those with diabetes, may need supplementation of is vitamin D, Saul emphasizes. Although the current government recommendation is 400 IUs recent research has indicated that this may not be enough.
Here is a list of foods with vitamin, mineral counts to help you with food choices if you are deficient in some. My SparkPage Send Private Message Reply. Here is a list of foods with vitamin, mineral counts to help you with food choices if you are deficient in some. Apples Vit C (good).
Magnesium, an abundant mineral in the body, is naturally present in many foods, added to other food products, available as a dietary supplement, and present in some medicines (such as antacids and laxatives). Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ].