Mechanically Propelled. The first really popular and commercially successful velocipede design was invented by French blacksmith, Ernest Michaux in 1863. A simpler and more elegant solution than the Macmillan bicycle; Michaux's design included rotary cranks and pedals mounted to the front wheel hub.
The earliest bicycle was a wooden scooter-like contraption called a  celerifere; it was invented about 1790 by Comte Mede de Sivrac of  France.   In 1816, Baron Karl von … Drais de Sauerbrun, of Germany, invented a  model with a steering bar attached to the front wheel, which he  called a Draisienne.
The first transport that resembled the modern bicycle was the running machine (Laufmaschine) invented in 1817 and patented in 1818 by Karl von Drais, a German Baron. The English name was the draisine, and it consisted of a seat between two wooden wheels, which one could push along, then coast.
The first version of what is essentially today's bicycle (the Rover) was by John Kemp Starley in 1885, and was never patented. There's a recurring claim that Da Vinci invented the bicycle-or at lest had made drawings of something bicycle-looking.
It was what people called “Laufmaschine” or running machine. It was made of wood, had no pedals, and was run by pushing the feet against the ground. Baron Karl Drais Von Sauerbronn, a German, was the man who invented the bicycle Laufmaaschine. He first presented his crude invention to the world in Paris in 1818.
It is estimated  that by 1900 there were around 10 million bicycles.   French father and son Pierre and Ernest Michaux invented the modern  day pedal-and-crank bicycle in France in the 1860s.   The first true bicycle was invented in Scotland.
The question of who invented the velocipede, with its revolutionary pedals and gear system, is a bit murky. A German named Karl Kech claimed that he was the first to attach pedals to a hobby horse in 1862.
In 1839, the Scottish blacksmith Kirkpatrick MacMillan invented the first pedal-propelled bicycle. MacMillan never patented his bicycle invention and it was copied by others. It was discovered that he was the inventor because of an accident reported in a Glasgow newspaper.
To answer a question as to who invented a bicycle is not easy. To come into the form which we find today, bicycle has passed through many phases and through many people. The first bicycle called Velocipede was built by the French nobleman Comte de Sivrac in 1791. It had two wheels, a saddle and was foot powered. Another bicycle was invented in 1817 in Germany by Baron Von Drais. It was made of wood and had a steerable front wheel without a pedal.