If you’d rather, reduce the weight of the salt to 1.5% of the water and brine for 10 days. You can’t over salt this way. If you do over salt, anything, you can cook it in some water before serving to leach out salt, or soak overbrined meat in fresh water for as long as you over salted.
If you buy a trimmed brisket at the store or butcher it will have no layer of fat on it. For the best results, it is best to have a very thin layer of fat on your brisket to make pastrami, about 1/4 inch.
Once you have corned beef you need to rinse the meat off. If you have brined it for a long period of time, like three weeks you might want to soak it overnight in fresh water to lift some of the salt out. Now, apply a rub and place it in a smoker. The old fashioned way of preparing pastrami is to cold smoke it.
Pastrami is made by curing a beef brisket or bottom round for several days, then cooking it slowly to an internal temperature of 160-165°F. The pastrami you see in the grocery store is usually made from bottom round, which yields a large, round slice of meat.
Instructions. 1  Brine Pastrami as instructed for at least 2 weeks, if not 3 weeks. 2  Soak in water overnight to draw out some of the salt. 3  Pat dry and cover both sides with Pastrami Rub. 4  Smoke at 225-250, using a mix of hickory & fruit wood, for at least 4 hours or until internal temp hits about 160.
Smoke your brisket for about 45 minutes to an hour per pound. Keep this part in mind when selecting a brisket. A ten-pound brisket can take 10 hours to smoke. Once the meat has reached an internal temperature of 165 degrees it is done. You do not need to smoke pastrami as long as you would a regular brisket.
Pastrami is a smoked corned beef. If you buy corned beef you can make your own pastrami any afternoon. Of course, you can make your own Homemade Corned Beef if you have 3 weeks to let it cure. The seasoning for corned beef can be as simple as black pepper and ground coriander. However, while you are at it, try adding some extra flavor to the pastrami.
1 Refrigerate for 2 days if it’s thin, a third day if it’s thick. 2  Remove brisket from brine and rinse thoroughly. 3  Refrigerate it for another day uncovered (this is best, to let cure equalize, but if you can’t wait, that’s ok too). 4  Combine the pepper and coriander and coat the brisket with it.