Healing time is different depending on the part of your body that you get pierced. Some parts are more likely to get infected or have problems. Piercings on your ear lobes usually take about 6-8 weeks to heal. However, piercings on the side of your ear (cartilage) can take anywhere from 4 months to 1 year to heal.
As we have said the time frame for a newly pierced nose to completely heal varies from 2 to 4 months for nostril piercing and 6 to 8 months for septum piercings. Swelling and other symptoms that appear immediately after the piercing is done however normally go away in 10 to 15 days. We have all along been saying that you shouldn’t remove your piercing during the healing time to not only avoid infections but also to avoid close up especially given the fact that a piercing on the nose of less than four weeks closes up in less that 24 hours if the ring or stud is removed.
For this reason, most piercers recommend that you wait the maximum four months for nostril piercings and eight months for septum piercings before attempting to change the ring yourself. If you need to switch the ring before then, ask your piercer to tackle the job. It's important to clean your piercing site at least once a day to promote normal healing. To do this, dissolve 1/4 tsp. of sea salt in 1 cup of warm water. If you're cleaning a nostril piercing, soak a cotton ball in the solution and hold it over the piercing for about 10 minutes to kill bacteria.
1 If your piercing is in your septum (the middle section of the nose), you'll need to insert the jewelry into the hole through one nostril. 2  If, however, the piercing is in the side of one of your nostrils, you should insert it from the outside of the nose. 1 If, however, the piercing is in the side of one of your nostrils, you should insert it from the outside of the nose. 2  As a reminder, be sure to wash your hands or put on gloves before handling your (sterile) new jewelry or touching your piercing.
Cartilage piercings take significantly longer to heal than those that go through a flap of skin, like an earlobe. If you remove a ring from a nostril piercing that is less than 6 months old, the hole closes within a matter of days. If your piercing is healed, the hole on the outside of the nostril might stay open for several weeks
Average heal time can vary from piercing to piercing from 4~6 weeks for some and other a lot longer. Light heals are not considered healed and can be damaged by removing the jewellery too soon. Nostril piercings can take 6 months to 1 year to heal completely, and a septum piercing usually takes about 3 months. Then in about … three or four weeks I could take it out for a couple of days at a time. Now if you just got it done and you want to know how long in till you can change it, i would wait in till it is healed all the way. The more times you change it be for it is heal the more chance of it getting infected.
1 While every piercing is different, most new nose piercings will need at least a month to heal to the point that you can safely remove the jewelry. 2  However, longer waiting periods (up to two months or longer) are usually preferable. 1 If, however, the piercing is in the side of one of your nostrils, you should insert it from the outside of the nose. 2  As a reminder, be sure to wash your hands or put on gloves before handling your (sterile) new jewelry or touching your piercing.
188. Hi, I'm just wondering how long you guys think you should leave a nose piercing before changing to a ring, I've heard conflicting times from piercers, ranging from 6 weeks to 3 months so was just wondering what's the best. I really want a ring in it but don't want to do it too soon and cause problems. Thanks!! Senior Member. Hi, I'm just wondering how long you guys think you should leave a nose piercing before changing to a ring, I've heard conflicting times from piercers, ranging from 6 weeks to 3 months so was just wondering what's the best. I really want a ring in it but don't want to do it too soon and cause problems.
Well, I've had my nose pierced for about 6 months. It didn't take long for my nose to heal. two weeks after I got it pierced I could take it out overnight. Then in about … three or four weeks I could take it out for a couple of days at a time. Now if you just got it done and you want to know how long in till you can change it, i would wait in till it is healed all the way. The more times you change it be for it is heal the more chance of it getting infected.