Types of Radiotherapy and Prostate Cancer. There are three types of common radiotherapies used as prostate cancer treatments: the conventional electron beam radiation therapy (EBRT), and the newer 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) and intensity modulated radiation (IMRT).
Radiation therapy, or radiotherapy, is a common way to treat prostate cancer. Doctors who specialize in treating cancers with radiation are known as radiation oncologists. In radiation therapy, high-energy X-rays are used to kill cancer cells.
Radiation Treatment for Prostate Cancer. Radiation therapy, also called X-ray therapy, is used to treat cancer cells only in the treated area. Various techniques are used to deliver this type of treatment. Find out what to expect in this overview article.
The 2 main types of radiation therapy are external beam radiation and brachytherapy (internal radiation). Both appear to be good methods of treating prostate cancer, although there is more long-term information about the results with external beam radiation.
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are different types of radiation therapy: 1  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.
Electron beam radiation therapy was the first external radiation therapy used as a prostate cancer treatment. The type of particle used for these three therapies is called photons which have no charge and no significant mass.
Radiation therapy, or radiotherapy, is a common way to treat early stage prostate cancer. Doctors who specialize in treating cancers with radiation are known as radiation oncologists. In radiation therapy, high-energy X-rays are used to kill cancer cells.
External beam therapy is the radiation therapy treatment option used for most cancer patients. It is used to treat many types of tumors including cancers of the head and neck area, breast, lung, colon, and prostate. Depending upon tumor location, different levels of radiation are used for external beam therapy.