Colleen is a common English language name of Irish origin and a generic term for Irish women or girls, from the Irish cailin (cailín, caile). countrywoman 
Coleen /co-leen/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Coleen's root is Gaelic, and the name Coleen means girl, wench. Coleen is a variant form of Colleen (Gaelic): from cail n. Compare surname Colen. Kreatif forms: Celeen, Cileen, Coleenne. 
The name Colleen is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Colleen is: Girl. American Meaning: The name Colleen is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Colleen is: Girl. Irish Meaning: The name Colleen is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Colleen is: From an Irish word for girl. Famous bearer: Australian novelist Colleen McCullough.
The name Coleen is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Coleen is: Girl. American Meaning: The name Coleen is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Coleen is: Girl. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
Origin of the name Colleen: A name derived from the Irish colleen (a girl, a lass). The name seems to have originated in the U.S. Var: Collene, Kolleen, Kollene. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Colleen: | Edit. People think of this as a quintessentially Irish name, but it is seldom found in Ireland. It originated in the U.S., and is used mainly there, in Canada, and in Australia and New Zealand.
Meaning of Coleen. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Coleen means-Girl.. Other origins for the name Coleen include-Gaelic, Scottish.The name Coleen is most often used as a girl name or female name. Gaelic Name Meaning-Girl. Origin-Gaelic.
A name derived from the Irish colleen (a girl, a lass). The name seems to have originated in the U.S. Var: Collene, Kolleen, Kollene. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Colleen /col-leen/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced kah-LEEN. It is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Colleen is girl, wench. From cail n. Sometimes used as a feminine of Colin or variant of Colette. See also Cailin. 