A phenotype results from the expression of an organism's genes as well as the influence of environmental factors and the interactions between the two. When two or more clearly different phenotypes exist in the same population of a species, the species is called polymorph. Although a phenotype is the ensemble of observable characteristics displayed by an organism, the word phenome is sometimes used to refer to a collection of traits, while the simultaneous study of such a collection is referred to as phenomics.
The physical appearance of an organism with respect to a trait, i.e. yellow (Y) or green (y) seeds in garden peas. The dominant trait is normally represented with a capital letter, and the recessive trait with the same lower case letter. pleiotropic. A single gene determines more than one phenotype for an organism. Both alleles for a trait are the same in an individual. They can be homozygous dominant (YY), or homozygous recessive (yy). hybrid. heterozygous; usually referring to the offspring of two true-breeding (homozygous) individuals differing in the traits of interest.
Genetics is the study of genes, heredity, and genetic variation in living organisms. It is generally considered a field of biology, but it intersects frequently with many of the life sciences and is strongly linked with the study of information systems. The father of genetics is Gregor Mendel, a late 19th-century scientist and Augustinian friar. Mendel studied 'trait inheritance', patterns in the way traits were handed down from parents to offspring. He observed that organisms (pea plants) inherit traits by way of discrete units of inheritance
It is essential to distinguish the descriptors of the organism, its genotype and phenotype, from the material objects that are being described. The genotype is the descriptor of the genome which is the set of physical DNA molecules inherited from the organism's parents. Report Abuse. Physical characteristics, I think, would be traits. I don't know many specific terms used in genetics, but I know there are several. You can check this genetics glossary http://www.ornl.gov/sci/techresources/Hu... or the one I have as a source. Source(s): https://www3.nationalgeographic.com/geno...
Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 3  The brain and the nerv….
Phenotype. The physical expressed characteristics of an organisms genotype is known as its phenotype. Two organisms may have the same phenotype, but different genotype dependi … ng on the dominate or recessive genes present. Just remember physical=pheno. 3 people found this useful.
A pea plant that is heterozygous for tall stems has the alleles Tt.____ 4. A Punnett square shows all the possible combinations of alleles in parents.____ 5. An organism’s physical appearance is its phenotype.____ 6. The sex cells produced by meiosis have twice the number of chromosomes as the parent cells.____ 7. 
A phenotype (from Greek phainein, meaning to show, and typos, meaning type) is the composite of an organism 's observable characteristics or traits, such as its morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, phenology, behavior, and products of behavior (such as a bird's nest). Although a phenotype is the ensemble of observable characteristics displayed by an organism, the word phenome is sometimes used to refer to a collection of traits, while the simultaneous study of such a collection is referred to as phenomics.
Phenotype. The physical expressed characteristics of an organisms genotype is known as its phenotype. Two organisms may have the same phenotype, but different genotype dependi … ng on the dominate or recessive genes present. 1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 3  The brain and the nerv….