3.43 stars - 23 reviews. Bharat, India, Hindustan but the official name, states that India, that is Bharat, shall be a union of states.. Thus, not only in usage but officially India and Bharat are both accorded primary status. The name India is derived from the river Indus. The original name of the river came from the fact that in the north-west of the subcontinent, there are seven main tributaries of the one river. The local inhabitants therefore called it Sapta-Sindhu, meaning the seven rivers.
why Bharat... India is referred to as Bharat sometimes. This was the name of an Indian king centuries ago-He was the grandfather of the Pandavas and the Kauravas from the epic Mahabharata. Supposedly, he was a great King and there was a prophecy made that the country would be named after him from that point on. 1  Quote. #3. I believe that the name Bharat was the name chosen by the Indian leaders either during the freedon struggle or after independence. Both India and Pakistan felt strongly against continuing to the use the name India -- which became popular as name of a British colony.
Author: T.M.Sankaran 25 Dec 2010 Member Level: Gold Points: 2 (Rs 2) Voting Score: 0Hinduism did not come from any other place. It originated in olden days in this part of the world. This region may not be the present India. Bharatham was the name used in old days, which was not geographically the same as India. 
The first article of the Constitution of India states that India, that is Bharat, shall be a union of states, implicitly codifying India and Bharat as equally official short names for the Republic of India. In Middle English, the name was, under French influence, replaced by Ynde or Inde, which entered Early Modern English as Indie. The name India then came back to English usage from the 17th century onwards, and may be due to the influence of Latin, or Spanish or Portuguese.
The name India may refer to either the region of Greater India (the Indian subcontinent) or to the contemporary Republic of India located therein. The name is derived from the name of the Sindhu (Indus River) and has been in use in Greek since Herodotus (4th century BC). The term appeared in Old English as early the 9th century and reemerged in Modern English in the 17th century. In Middle English, the name was, under French influence, replaced by Ynde or Inde, which entered Early Modern English as Indie. The name India then came back to English usage from the 17th century onwards, and may be due to the influence of Latin, or Spanish or Portuguese.
The name India is derived from Indus, which originates from the Old Persian word Hinduš. The latter term stems from the Sanskrit word Sindhu, which was the historical local appellation for the Indus River. The ancient Greeks referred to the Indians as Indoi (ινδοί), which translates as the people of the Indus. India, officially the Republic of India (Bhārat Gaṇarājya), is a country in South Asia. It is the seventh-largest country by area, the second-most populous country with over 1.2 billion people, and the most populous democracy in the world
Bharat, that is India. India s official name is Bharat and this is accorded equal primacy as the word India in the Constitution. In fact the First Clause of the Constitution begins with the words, India, that is Bharat. It is clear from the above that the word Hindu simply meant (someone living in India) “Indian” or (something) related to India. The term Hindu did not signify any religion or set of religious beliefs but was really a label for a specific landmass.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The name India came from Indus, a river in India. Indus was derived from the Old Persian word Hindu, from the Sanskrit word Sindhu, which was the historic local name of the Indus River. The ancient Greeks called the Indians Indoi, the people of the Indus. Report Abuse. The name India is derived from Indus, which is derived from the Old Persian word Hindu, from Sanskrit Sindhu, the historic local appellation for the Indus River. The ancient Greeks referred to the Indians as Indoi, the people of the Indus. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India.