These disorders are characterized by physical complaints that appear to be medical in origin but that cannot be explained in terms of a physical disease, the results of substance abuse, or by another mental disorder. The criteria for this disorder require four symptoms of pain, two symptoms in the digestive tract, one symptom involving the sexual organs, and one symptom related to the nervous system. Somatization disorder usually begins before the age of 30.
Definition. Somatic symptom disorder involves having a significant focus on physical symptoms — such as pain or fatigue — to the point that it causes major emotional distress and problems functioning. If you have somatic symptom disorder, you may experience significant emotional and physical suffering. Treatment can help ease symptoms, help you cope and improve your quality of life. 1  Symptoms.
The dissociative disorders are a group of mental disorders that affect consciousness defined as causing significant interference with the patient's general functioning, including social relationships and employment. The moderate to severe dissociation that occurs in patients with dissociative disorders is understood to result from a set of causes: 1  an innate ability to dissociate easily. 2  repeated episodes of severe physical or sexual abuse in childhood. 3  the lack of a supportive or comforting person to counteract abusive relative(s).
Conversion disorder. Conversion disorder is a condition in which the patient's senses or ability to walk or move are impaired without a recognized medical or neurological disease or cause and in which psychological factors (such as stress or trauma) are judged to be temporarily related to onset or exacerbation. The criteria for this disorder require four symptoms of pain, two symptoms in the digestive tract, one symptom involving the sexual organs, and one symptom related to the nervous system. Somatization disorder usually begins before the age of 30.
Somatization disorder (also Briquet's syndrome) is a mental disorder characterized by recurring, multiple, and current, clinically significant complaints about somatic symptoms. Somatization disorder is estimated to occur in 0.2% to 2% of females, and 0.2% of males. There are cultural differences in the prevalence of somatization disorder. For example, somatization disorder and symptoms were found to be significantly more common in Puerto Rico.
In the DSM-5 the disorder has been renamed to somatic symptom disorder (SSD), and includes SSD with predominantly somatic complaints (previously referred to as somatization disorder), and SSD with pain features (previously known as pain disorder). Somatization disorder is estimated to occur in 0.2% to 2% of females, and 0.2% of males. There are cultural differences in the prevalence of somatization disorder. For example, somatization disorder and symptoms were found to be significantly more common in Puerto Rico.
Somatoform disorder — A category of psychiatric disorder characterized by physical complaints that appear to be medical in origin but that cannot be explained in terms of a physical disease, the results of substance abuse, or by another mental disorder. The criteria for this disorder require four symptoms of pain, two symptoms in the digestive tract, one symptom involving the sexual organs, and one symptom related to the nervous system. Somatization disorder usually begins before the age of 30.
Somatization disorder is a psychiatric condition marked by multiple medically unexplained physical, or somatic, symptoms. 
somatoform disorders a group of mental disorders in which physical symptoms suggest the presence of a medical disorder but are not fully explained by a general medical condition, the direct effects of a psychoactive substance, or another mental disorder. The criteria for this disorder require four symptoms of pain, two symptoms in the digestive tract, one symptom involving the sexual organs, and one symptom related to the nervous system. Somatization disorder usually begins before the age of 30.
1 Dissociative amnesia. 2  The main symptom of this disorder is memory loss that's more severe than normal forgetfulness and that can't be explained by a medical condition. 3  You can't recall information about yourself or events and people in your life, especially from a traumatic time. Signs and symptoms of dissociative disorders include: 1  Memory loss (amnesia) of certain time periods, events and people.