Subscribe to the Women's Health newsletter for the latest on disease prevention, fitness, sex, diet, anti-aging, and more from WebMD. By clicking Submit, I agree to the WebMD Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of WebMD subscriptions at any time. 
How to use Pristiq. Read the Medication Guide and, if available, the Patient Information Leaflet provided by your pharmacist before you start taking desvenlafaxine and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Uses. Desvenlafaxine is used to treat depression. It may improve your mood, feelings of well-being, and energy level. Desvenlafaxine is known as a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI). It works by helping to restore the balance of certain natural substances (serotonin and norepinephrine) in the brain.
Reference ID: 3595709. Do not take desvenlafaxine extended-release tablets with other medicines containing desvenlafaxine or venlafaxine. Know the medicines you take. Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new. medicine. occur when stopping desvenlafaxine extended-release tablets (discontinuation symptoms), especially when therapy is. stopped suddenly. Your healthcare provider may want to decrease your dose slowly to help avoid side effects.
Desvenlafaxine extended-release tablets are a prescription medicine used to treat Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). Desvenlafaxine extended-release tablets belong to a class of medicines known as SNRIs (or serotonin-norepinephrine. reuptake inhibitors). occur when stopping desvenlafaxine extended-release tablets (discontinuation symptoms), especially when therapy is. stopped suddenly. Your healthcare provider may want to decrease your dose slowly to help avoid side effects.
Pristiq is the brand name for desvenlafaxine, a prescription drug used to treat depression. It is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Pristiq affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. 
Uses of This Medicine. Desvenlafaxine is used to treat depression. It belongs to a group of medicines known as serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). These medicines are thought to work by increasing the activity of chemicals called serotonin and norepinephrine in the brain. 
PRISTIQ (desvenlafaxine) 50 mg is FDA approved to treat depression. In clinical studies, PRISTIQ 50 mg also helped improve patients' ability to function according to a scale* used to measure how depression disrupts the following areas: 1  Work. 2  Social Life/Leisure Activities. 
Contraindications/Precautions. Contraindicated in: Hypersensitivity to venlafaxine or desvenlafaxine;Concurrent use of MAO inhibitors or MAO-like drugs (linezolid or methylene blue);Should not be used concurrently with venlafaxine. 