I have put together some general information on founder. If your horse has foundered or you are concerned about the possibility, this information will provide answers to the most common questions and educate you on what you’re dealing with, causes, diagnostics and treatment. This is not to be used in place of professional assistance, but to make you an informed horse owner.
Founder is a serious disease of hooved animals that involves the inflammation of the laminae in the feet. The front hooves are the most likely to be affected than the back feet, and the animal will display severe lameness as a result.
Founder is another name for laminitis, a horrible disease of the foot suffered by many horses and ponies. It has many causes and one of them is too much grass. It is incurable … and difficult to treat and recurrent attacks are common which is why its onset is something evey horse or pony owner dreads.
Founder in horses is basically when the coffin bone, inside the hoof, is shoved against the inside of the hoof, pressing on all the nerves and viens that are delicate and impo … rtant. This, as you may conclude, is extremely painful, and causes a more uprite stature in the hoof.
Horse Founder. 1. The term “Founder” is a much more than a common term for the painful condition in the horse’s foot. The term has been around for hundreds of years and its origin comes from a naval term. A ship “foundered” on the rocks or sand was unable to move, much like a foundered horse was unable to walk.
Posted on October 29, 2011 by keith. Founder is a very painful condition that can be brought on by many things, or more likely, a combination of things. There are three levels of severity to founder (laminitis, acute laminitis, and founder), but all three are commonly referred to by the common name of Founder.
The entrepreneur who started a business. If multiple entrepreneurs were involved in the creation of the company, they are referred to as the founders. The origin of the word is that a founder originally meant a person who forges steel; similarly, the founder of a company is forging the new entity.