Noun. 1. fertilization-creation by the physical union of male and female gametes; of sperm and ova in an animal or pollen and ovule in a plant. fecundation, fertilisation, impregnation. conception, creation-the event that occurred at the beginning of something; from its creation the plan was doomed to failure. 
Fertilization is the process of fusion of the female gamete, the ovum or egg and the male gamete produced in the pollen tube by the pollen grain. Fertilization in flowering plants was discovered by Strassburger in 1884. Flowers are the reproductive structures of angiosperms. 1 In the embryo sac, on the male nucleus fuses with the nucleus of the egg and forms a diploid zygote. 2  This process is known as true fertilization or syngamy. 3  The other male gamete or nucleus enters further into the embryo sac and it fuses with secondary nucleus.
An angiosperm ovule contains an egg cell and a diploid fusion nucleus, which is created through the joining of two polar nuclei within the ovule. When a pollen grain comes into contact with the stigma, or top of the pistil, it sends a pollen tube down into the ovary at the pistil's base. In order for fertilization to occur, angiosperms either self-pollinate, in which a particular plant fertilizes itself, or cross-pollinate, in which one plant is fertilized by another of the same species.
Flowering plants reproduce through sex. Like other sexual organisms, flowering plants reproduce by bringing together separate sperm cells and egg cells that combine their genetic material to form a zygote. In plants, the zygote matures into the seeds that will grow the next generation. Cross pollination occurs when pollen from one flower is carried to the stigma of another flower of the same variety. Some flowering plants can pollinate themselves if cross-pollinating vectors are not present. In self-pollination, pollen grains from the anther land on the stigma of the same flower.
Double fertilisation is the process in angiosperms (flowering plants) in which two sperm from each pollen tube fertilise two cells in a female gametophyte (sometimes called an embryo sac) that is inside an ovule. Fertilization in humans. The sperm and ovum unite through fertilization, creating a zygote that (over the course of 8-9 days) will implant in the uterine wall, where it will reside over the course of 9 months.
1 The pollen tube then breaks into the ovule through the micropyle and then the micropyle bursts into the embryo sac. 2  In the embryo sac, on the male nucleus fuses with the nucleus of the egg and forms a diploid zygote. 3  This process is known as true fertilization or syngamy. 1 In the embryo sac, on the male nucleus fuses with the nucleus of the egg and forms a diploid zygote. 2  This process is known as true fertilization or syngamy. 3  The other male gamete or nucleus enters further into the embryo sac and it fuses with secondary nucleus.
Allogamy, which is also known as cross-fertilization, refers to the fertilization of an egg cell from one individual with the male gamete of another. Autogamy which is also known as self-fertilization, occurs in such hermaphroditic organisms as plants and flatworms; therein, two gametes from one individual fuse. Fertilization in humans. The sperm and ovum unite through fertilization, creating a zygote that (over the course of 8-9 days) will implant in the uterine wall, where it will reside over the course of 9 months.
In gymnosperms (conifers) and angiosperms (flowering plants), the meeting of the gametes occurs in the following way: male gametes are enclosed in pollen grains and are carried by wind or insects to the female reproductive organs. The final product of fertilization--the embryo--is encased in a seed. In order for fertilization to occur, angiosperms either self-pollinate, in which a particular plant fertilizes itself, or cross-pollinate, in which one plant is fertilized by another of the same species.
Fertilisation (also known as conception, fecundation and syngamy) is the fusion of gametes to initiate the development of a new individual organism. In animals, the process involves the fusion of an ovum with a sperm, which first creates a zygote and then leads to the development of an embryo. Fertilization in humans. The sperm and ovum unite through fertilization, creating a zygote that (over the course of 8-9 days) will implant in the uterine wall, where it will reside over the course of 9 months.
Fertilization. Fertilization, which is the union of sperm and egg, occurs deep within the flower after pollination. When a pollen grain lands on the stigma, it generates a tiny tube tipped with sperm. The tube fits into a conduit called a style in the female pistil. Cross pollination occurs when pollen from one flower is carried to the stigma of another flower of the same variety. Some flowering plants can pollinate themselves if cross-pollinating vectors are not present. In self-pollination, pollen grains from the anther land on the stigma of the same flower.