Doxycycline is a tetracycline antibiotic. It fights bacteria in the body. Doxycycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, and chlamydia, periodontitis (gum disease), and others. Doxycycline is also used to treat blemishes, bumps, and acne-like lesions caused by rosacea. Doxycycline will not treat facial redness caused by rosacea. Doxycycline may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
A: Doxycycline can be used for a number of different infections as follows: acne, anthrax, gum diseases, and rosacea, as well as bacterial infections such as chlamydia, typhus, tick bites, pneumonia, syphilis, gonorrhea, Lyme disease, plaque, malaria, and some urinary tract infections. Doxycycline is an antibiotic used for treating bacterial infections. The drug is also sold under the brand names Oracea, Doryx, Monodox, Periostat, and Vibramycin. Doxycycline is in a class of medications called tetracyclines, and it's a broad-spectrum antibiotic, which means it works against a wide range of bacteria.
A: Doxycycline is a medication that is used to treat various infections such as lyme disease, urinary tract infections, and pneumonia. Doxycycline is in the class of antibiotics called tetracyclines that work by inhibiting the growth of bacteria giving the immune system a chance at eliminating the infection. Doxycycline is an antibiotic used for treating bacterial infections. The drug is also sold under the brand names Oracea, Doryx, Monodox, Periostat, and Vibramycin. Doxycycline is in a class of medications called tetracyclines, and it's a broad-spectrum antibiotic, which means it works against a wide range of bacteria.
Doxycycline hyclate (doxycycline hydrochloride hemiethanolate hemihydrate) is a prescription antibiotic medication that is licensed to treat a number of common bacterial infections. It is made by several different manufacturers. Some uses for doxycycline hyclate include: 1  Treatment of bacterial infections, including: 
Descriptions. Doxycycline is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. It is also used to treat pimples and abscesses (usually on the face) that are caused by rosacea, also known as acne rosacea or adult acne. Doxycycline belongs to the class of medicines known as tetracycline antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Though doxycycline hyclate is a powerful antibiotic, not all bacterial strains may respond to this drug. Medical conditions that result from viral infections also do not respond to doxycycline hyclate treatment. Doxycycline hyclate is available in tablet and capsule form. Doxycycline Hyclate is an antibiotic that is sourced synthetically from oxytetracycline. It is a drug that is commonly used to fight bacterial infections. Its main action is to slow the growth of bacteria inside the body to allow for the body’s immune system to work and perhaps eliminate them all throughout
A: Doryx (doxycycline hyclate) is a tetracycline-type antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections (e.g., Rickettsial infections, sexually transmitted infections, respiratory tract infections, ophthalmic infections, Anthrax, adjunctive therapy in acute intestinal amebiasis and severe acne, and prophylaxis of malaria). Doxycycline is an antibiotic used for treating bacterial infections. The drug is also sold under the brand names Oracea, Doryx, Monodox, Periostat, and Vibramycin. Doxycycline is in a class of medications called tetracyclines, and it's a broad-spectrum antibiotic, which means it works against a wide range of bacteria.
Found This Helpful. Doxycycline hyclate is a prescription antibiotic that can be used to treat several medical conditions, including bacterial infections such as those caused by ticks and bug bites, chronic eye infections, severe acne, dysentery and gonorrhea. It can also be used to prevent malaria in people planning to travel abroad. Drug Interactions. Doxycycline hyclate is known to interfere with the effectiveness of some other medications, including penicillin, certain antacids, oral birth control, barbiturates, sodium bicarbonate, phenytoin, carbamazepine, blood thinners and bismuth subsalicylate.