Polymers are molecules that consist of a long, repeating chain of smaller units called monomers. They have the highest molecular weight among any molecules, and may consist of billions of atoms. Human DNA is a polymer with over 20 billion constituent atoms. Proteins, made up of amino acids, and many other molecules that make up life are polymers. They are the largest and most diverse class of known molecules and even include plastics.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A polymer (a chemical term) is any material that is made up of repeating linked units (monomers). An example of a polymer is starch. It is made from linked units of Glucose (a sugar). Another example is plastics such as low density polyethylene made from linking repeating ethylene (a gas) units. Maybe a more familar example that is used around the house is when you repair your car with fiberglass. 
The properties of anything made out of polymers really reflect what's going on at the ultra-tiny (molecular) level. So, things that are made of polymers look, feel, and act depending on how their atoms and molecules are connected, as well as which ones we use to begin with! Well, usually a single polymer molecule is made out of hundreds of thousands (or even millions!) of monomers! Wow! That's a lot! By the way, we use the special name of monomer because not all molecules can form polymers.
This is PAUL LEMUR. He's a lemur named Paul. Polymers are made up of many many molecules all strung together to form really long chains (and sometimes more complicated structures, too). What makes polymers so fun is that how they act depends on what kinds of molecules they're made up of and how they're put together. Well, usually a single polymer molecule is made out of hundreds of thousands (or even millions!) of monomers! Wow! That's a lot! By the way, we use the special name of monomer because not all molecules can form polymers.
If all atoms in the monomers are incorporated into the polymer, the polymer is called an addition polymer. If some of the atoms of the monomers are released into small molecules, such as water, the polymer is called a condensation polymer. The materials commonly called plastics are all synthetic polymers. Polymers are formed by chemical reactions in which a large number of molecules called monomers are joined sequentially, forming a chain. In many polymers, only one monomer is used. In others, two or three different monomers may be combined.
Polymers are substances containing a large number of structural units joined by the same type of linkage. These substances often form into a chain-like structure. Polymers in the natural world have been around since the beginning of time. Starch, cellulose, and rubber all possess polymeric properties. Man-made polymers have been studied since 1832. Today, the polymer industry has grown to be larger than the aluminum, copper and steel industries combined.
Condensation polymers are made from monomers that have two different groups of atoms which can join together to form, for example, ester or amide links. Polyesters are an important class of commercial polymers, as are polyamides (nylon). The materials commonly called plastics are all synthetic polymers. Polymers are formed by chemical reactions in which a large number of molecules called monomers are joined sequentially, forming a chain. In many polymers, only one monomer is used. In others, two or three different monomers may be combined.
Synthetic Polymers. Man-made polymers are called Synthetic Polymers. These polymers are different from organic polymers, because they are made of different elements along their backbone structure. Examples of man-made polymers are spandex(above), polyester, and nylon. Nylon is often found in carpeting, and spandex is used as clothes.
A polymer (/ˈpɒlɨmər/) (Greek poly- , many + -mer, parts) is a large molecule, or macromolecule, composed of many repeated subunits. 