Related Terms. 1  reverse Hyper-Threading. 2  user defined function. 3  XML Schema Definition-XSD. 4  DDL. 5  simultaneous multithreading. 6  SDE-software defined environment. 7  software-defined servers. 8  MIDL. 9  Software-Defined Everything-SDE. 10  SDS-software-defined storage. 
Advantages of Hyper-Threading. The workload created by a CPU-intensive operation, such as running two demanding programs at the same time -- an operation that would slow down a single, physical core regardless of its raw power -- is split between the virtual cores in a processor that utilizes HT technology. Hyper-Threading Technology. Hyper-Threading technology creates two virtual processing cores for each physical core present in a CPU. The physical core powers the virtual cores, which then share the responsibility of task processing.
Kiers said: and under definition of hyperthreading (which is labelled NO for this CPU) is,  Intel速 Hyper-Threading Technology (Intel速 HT Technology) delivers two processing threads per physical core. 
hyperthreading-Computer Definition. (1) A high-performance computing architecture that simulates some degree of overlap in executing two or more independent sets of instructions. See Hyper-Threading. (2) (Hyper-Threading) A feature of certain Intel chips that makes one physical CPU appear as two logical CPUs. 
Hyper-Threading. Hyper-threading is a technology developed by Intel Corporation. It is used in certain Pentium 4 processors and all Intel Xeon processors. Hyper-threading technology, commonly referred to as HT Technology, enables the processor to execute two threads, or sets of instructions, at the same time. Since hyper-threading allows two streams to be executed in parallel, it is almost like having two separate processors working together
Part of the Programming glossary: Hyper-Threading is a technology used by some Intel microprocessor s that allows a single microprocessor to act like two separate processors to the operating system and the application program s that use it. It is a feature of Intel's IA-32 processor architecture.
Get faster performance for many demanding business applications. Intel速 Hyper-Threading Technology (Intel速 HT Technology) 1 uses processor resources more efficiently, enabling multiple threads to run on each core. 
While hyper-threading can improve processing performance, software must support multiple processors to take advantage of the technology. Hyper-threading is a technology developed by Intel Corporation. It is used in certain Pentium 4 processors and all Intel Xeon processors.
Hyper-Threading. Hyper-threading is a technology developed by Intel Corporation. It is used in certain Pentium 4 processors and all Intel Xeon processors. 