Miso soup (味噌汁, misoshiru) is a traditional Japanese soup consisting of a stock called  dashi  into which softened miso paste is mixed. Many ingredients are added depending on regional and seasonal recipes, and personal preference. 
1 Miso is typically considered to be a high-sodium food, since one teaspoon of miso often contains 200-300 milligrams of sodium. 2  However, recent research has shown that in spite of its high-sodium content, miso does not appear to affect our cardiovascular system in the way that other high-sodium foods sometimes can. In comparison to research on soybeans and their overall health benefits, research specific to miso is much less common. In addition, research on miso is complicated by the fact that human intake of miso can be difficult to measure in isolation since miso is usually consumed as part of a soup, stir-fry, or other dish.
In a very tiny nutshell, as there is a plethora of information out there, here is what I found: MSG or monosodium glutamate is a salt of the amino acid called glutamic acid (glutamate). MSG is commonly added to Chinese food, canned soups, vegetable and processed meats. Over a thousand years ago Asian cooks began adding a type of seaweed (Laminaria japonica) found in the Pacific Ocean to their soup stocks. MSG is one of those things that people hear about, know it is in Chinese food and that it either makes them feel sick after consuming or it does not. Very few people have any idea what MSG is or from where it comes.
Miso paste is created from a mixture of soybeans, sea salt and rice koji and then fermented. The fermentation process creates enzyme-rich compounds that are effective in detoxifying and eliminating industrial pollution, radioactivity and artificial chemicals from the soil and food system from your body. 1 Place water in a large pot and bring to a low simmer. 2  Add nori, tofu and mushrooms and simmer for 5-7 minutes. 3  In the meantime, place miso paste into a small bowl, add a little hot water and whisk until smooth. 4  Then add to the soup with green onions and stir.
The miso you have is most likely the type that has added flavorings and is sold as 'ready to use' without adding dashi stock. That accounts for the MSG. Not all Japanese products are good and 'natural' - you still have to look at the ingredients I'm afraid. 
Miso is a fermented paste of soybeans and either barley (mugi miso) or rice (kome miso), with salt. Also, there is a type of miso which is made from only soybeans and salt (mame miso or haccho miso). Now 80 percent of miso products are kome miso. 
For its use in food, see glutamic acid (flavor) . For glutamic acid in general, see glutamic acid. For other uses of MSG, see MSG (disambiguation) . Monosodium glutamate (MSG, also known as sodium glutamate) is the sodium salt of glutamic acid, one of the most abundant naturally occurring non-essential amino acids. Glutamate is found in tomatoes, Parmesan cheese, potatoes, mushrooms, and other vegetables and fruits. MSG is used in the food industry as a flavor enhancer with an umami taste that intensifies the meaty, savory flavor of food, as naturally occurring glutamate does in foods such as stews and meat soups.
Then you add ingredients in that take progressively less time to cook such as mushrooms, tofu, seaweed and leafy vegetables. The last component of miso soup is of course the miso. Miso is a paste made by fermenting soy beans and salt along with rice or barley using a type of mold called koji. Thanks to the Maillard Reaction that occurs during fermentation, these humble legumes and grains are transformed into a flavorful paste with deep earthy notes and a meat-like savoriness. 
At its most basic, miso is a paste made from fermented soy beans. Sometimes other components are fermented along with the soybeans, such as rice, barley, or ginger. Miso is very versatile. The most basic thing you can do with miso is make soup. You've probably had tons of miso if you've ever eaten in a Japanese or Korean restaurant. It is very popular to receive a small bowl of miso soup before your meal, typically with some small bits of tofu and seaweed within.
“There are contaminants in processed MSG. An analogy that can be used is that there are right-handed amino acids and left handed ones. They are like mirror images of each other. Processed MSG contains not only the kind of amino acids the body is used to handling, but mirror image ones too. MSG is one of those things that people hear about, know it is in Chinese food and that it either makes them feel sick after consuming or it does not. Very few people have any idea what MSG is or from where it comes.