Introduction. Proposed in late 1940 and passed in March 1941, the Lend-Lease Act was the principal means for providing U.S. military aid to foreign nations during World War II. The Lend-Lease Act of March 11, 1941, was the principal means for providing U.S. military aid to foreign nations during World War II.
A+E Networks. Proposed in late 1940 and passed in March 1941, the Lend-Lease Act was the principal means for providing U.S. military aid to foreign nations during World War II. The Lend-Lease Act of March 11, 1941, was the principal means for providing U.S. military aid to foreign nations during World War II.
The Lend-Lease Act was initiated due to America's looming involvement in World War II. During the period before the enactment of The Lend-Lease Act the United States had instituted a peacetime draft and had increased its defense budget 5 fold. When the Lend-Lease Act came before Congress it fell along party lines, with the Lend-Lease Act passing largely due to a majority of Democrats in both the House and Senate. In the House, the bill passed by 260 to 165 and 59 to 30 in the Senate.
Confidence votes 4.0K. The Lend-Lease Act was passed on March 11, 1941. Lend-Lease was a program of the United States Federal government during World War II which enabled the United States to provide the Allied nations with war material while the US was still officially a neutral country. What is the definition for Lend-lease Act? It was the name of the program under which the United States of America supplied the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, China, France and other Allied nations with vast amounts … of war materiel between 1941 and 1945 in return for, in the case of Britain, military bases.
Its major goal was to supply the United Kingdom, France, China, and the Soviet Union with supplies to combat the Axis powers during World War II while avoiding the United States direct military involvement in the war. The Lend-Lease Act was essential to circumvent the prohibitions of the Neutrality Acts. When the Lend-Lease Act came before Congress it fell along party lines, with the Lend-Lease Act passing largely due to a majority of Democrats in both the House and Senate. In the House, the bill passed by 260 to 165 and 59 to 30 in the Senate.
In all from 1941 until the end of the war the Lend-Lease Act cost the United States almost $51 billion, with the majority going to Great Britain, the Soviet Union, France, China and Brazil. The U.S. also received billions of dollars worth of goods through reverse lend-lease. When the Lend-Lease Act came before Congress it fell along party lines, with the Lend-Lease Act passing largely due to a majority of Democrats in both the House and Senate. In the House, the bill passed by 260 to 165 and 59 to 30 in the Senate.
Passed on March 11, 1941, this act set up a system that would allow the United States to lend or lease war supplies to any nation deemed vital to the defense of the United States.. 
Without Lend-Lease, the Soviet people would have had to make even greater sacrifices and would have suffered even more deaths. The American Lend-Lease aid program was passed by the United States Congress in March of 1941 originally to support the war effort in Great Britain. American public and congressional opinion at first resisted the idea of extending the aid to the Soviet Union. During World War II the United States shipped an enormous amount of aid to the Soviet Union through the Lend-Lease program. The significance of this aid to the Soviet war effort has long been debated.
The Lend-Lease Act of 1941 was a program instituted by the United States of America and signed by President Franklin Roosevelt on March 11, 1941; 4 months before the United States became directly involved in World War II. When the Lend-Lease Act came before Congress it fell along party lines, with the Lend-Lease Act passing largely due to a majority of Democrats in both the House and Senate. In the House, the bill passed by 260 to 165 and 59 to 30 in the Senate.