Algae, lichens and moss are non-parasitic plant-like organisms that colonise bark, rock and other hard surfaces. Lichens and algae are often mistaken for a fungal disease but, fortunately, they do not harm plants on which they grow. Algae, lichens and moss are found in damp places, as not only do they need moisture for growth but also for reproduction. Lichens are particularly adaptable as they are able to exist where nutrients, and sometimes water, are scarce. However, they grow only very slowly so, unlike moss and algae, are slow to colonise.
Lichen. Lichens are unlike any other organism on earth. Their structure is unique: a symbiosis of two organisms  a fungus and algae. Lichens are not plants, so they do not produce seeds. Lichens can survive in some of the most barren and severe regions of the world. They tolerate extreme cold and dry conditions through dormancy and the ability to recover quickly when conditions are favorable.
In laboratory settings, algae grow faster when they are alone rather than when they are part of a lichen. But there is also a mutualism side to the relationship, the fungus part of the lichen provides the alga with water and minerals that the fungus absorbs from whatever the lichen is growing on. The lichen fungus is typically a member of the Ascomycota—rarely a member of the Basidiomycota. Some lichen taxonomists place lichens in their own division, the Mycophycophyta, but this practice ignores the fact that the components belong to separate lineages.
Depends on the lichen, and how much water is available. Most crustose lichens (the rock crusts) grow very slowly, a less than a mm/year, but some fast-growing (rarely crustose) foliose and fruticose lichens can grow several mm in a year. A lot of work has been done on map lichen because it does grow so slowly. The lichen fungus is typically a member of the Ascomycota—rarely a member of the Basidiomycota. Some lichen taxonomists place lichens in their own division, the Mycophycophyta, but this practice ignores the fact that the components belong to separate lineages.
How to Grow Lichens The lichen lovers have tried a lot of lichen growth formulas. The most successful and easy to implement are listed on this page. 1 2 teaspoons of lichen flakes collected from common lichens growing in a similar microenvironment to where the new lichens are wanted. 2  2 teaspoons of healthy soil collected from an area near where lichens are currently growing.
Growth and Development in Lichens. Like all living things lichens need nutrients and energy to grow. Nutrients they obtain from the air (including dust), water and some from the substrate they are growing on. Energy they obtain through photosynthesis, which is the role of the algal partner. Lichens will and do grow on just about everything, natural or manmade. Different species of lichens prefer, or only grow on different substrates. Thus some species will be found on smooth barked trees, some on rough barked and some on only one species of tree.
A lichen is a composite organism that arises from algae or cyanobacteria (or both) living among filaments of a fungus in a symbiotic relationship. The combined life form has properties that are very different from the properties of its component organisms. Lichens come in many colors, sizes, and forms. Cyanobacteria photobionts are called cyanobionts. The part of a lichen that is not involved in reproduction, the body or vegetative tissue of a lichen, is called the thallus. The thallus form is very different from any form where the fungus or alga are growing separately.
The first method we tried, and the most commonly practiced lichen growth formula is to spray or paint milk, yogurt, or rice water onto the surface where lichens are desired. This will usually darken the surface in a matter of weeks or months, and within a few years many lichens often appear. 1 2 teaspoons of lichen flakes collected from common lichens growing in a similar microenvironment to where the new lichens are wanted. 2  2 teaspoons of healthy soil collected from an area near where lichens are currently growing.
Lichenized fungus may refer to the entire lichen, or to the fungus growing in it. The lichen combination of fungus with algae and/or cyanobacteria has a very different form (morphology), physiology, and biochemistry to the component parts growing by themselves. Cyanobacteria photobionts are called cyanobionts. The part of a lichen that is not involved in reproduction, the body or vegetative tissue of a lichen, is called the thallus. The thallus form is very different from any form where the fungus or alga are growing separately.