A tall oil fatty acid with a high fatty acid content and a low content of rosin acids and unsaponifiables. SYLFAT™2LT provides a combination of light color, very good color stability and airdrying properties.
Our tall oil fatty acids are supplied to markets that use them in raw form and as precursors to synthesize a wide array of new products. TOFA derivatives are numerous, including dimers, alkyds, PVC stabilizers, synthetic lubricants, polyamides and oilfield chemicals.
SYLFAT ™ is a tall oil fatty acid (TOFA) with high fatty acid content and a low content of rosin acids and unsaponifiables. SYLFAT ™ provides a combination of light colour, very good colour stability and air drying properties.
CAS No: 61790-12-3. Tall oil fatty acid (TOFA) is created by the reduction of tall oil rosin and its derivatives are used in the manufacturing of rubber, paper, soaps and detergents, printing inks, metalworking fluids, corrosion inhibitors and plasticizers.
The crude tall oil is distilled into tall oil rosin (having the rosin content of 10 - 35%), further refinery gives to tall oil fatty acid (the rosin content of 1 - 10%). Pitch is used as a emulsifier of asphalt and as a binder of cement and adhesive.
Forchem’s distilled Tall Oil (DTO) is a complex mixture of mainly fatty acids and rosin acids (more than10% rosin acids). The range of products is defined by rosin acid content with 25-30% being most popular and up to 40% being possible subject to handling and storage requirements.
Tall oil fatty acids are used in dimer acids, alkyd resins, oilfield chemicals, metalworking fluids, liquid cleaners, textile chemicals, fuel additives, construction chemicals, rubber and tire, metallic stabilizers, ore flotation, and fatty derivatives.
Tall Oil Fatty Acids. Chemical Associates offers a full spectrum of tall oil fatty acids. We have the ability to customize one of our standard products to meet a customer’s need. We offer low sulfur tall oil fatty acid that is designed specifically for the fuel segment as a diesel fuel additive.