Find out how to charge a car battery the right way. You can recharge a car battery when your car refuses to start. On average, most batteries do not require a recharge for at least five years. That's if you're taking good care of your car.
Fast charge: Repeated fast charges on a battery may overcharge a battery and reduce service life. Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery.
20 minutes should be good if your battery is relativity new ,,meaning under a couple years. A car battery normally last 4-5yrs.. Cold weather has a big effect on how long a battery needs to be charge to get back to fully charged. If you live in a spot where it will be below freezing overnight. Update: As stated, the battery and alternator are new. Very new. I do not have a battery charger, unfortunately. And it only drained because the car sat (turned off) for about 16 hours with the headlights turned on and no one knew it.
Step 3: Charge the battery at a 10-amp rate. 42 amp-hours needed by the battery divided by 10 amp charge = it will take around 4-1/2 hours to recharge the battery. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow 
In order to recharge your car battery while driving you will need to operate the vehicle over 1,000 RPM’s for a sustained period of time. The longer the battery has been dead, the longer it will take to fully recharge it. However, by driving for at least a half an hour at 1,000 RPM’s, you should charge your battery enough that you will be able to restart the vehicle once you turn it off. 
The further a battery is discharged, the longer it will take to recharge. Usually, it takes several hours to effectively recharge a battery. If a battery is almost completely discharged, it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge. If the battery becomes hot to the touch while recharging, then immediately stop charging. Follow these steps when recharging a battery. Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity (RC). In order to calculate the amount of amp-hours in a battery, multiply the reserve capacity by 0.6
A basic charger usually charges at around 2 amps-and so needs 24 hours to deliver the 48 amps needed to fully charge a flat, 48 amp hour battery. But there is a wide range of chargers with different charge rates on the market-from 2 to 10 amps. The higher the charge output, the faster a flat battery is recharged. It uses mains current to replace the battery's lost. through positive and negative leads that clip to the corresponding battery posts. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on.
The more discharged that a battery is, then the longer it will take to recharge it. Usually it takes several hours to effectively recharge a battery. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery. Slow charging rates vary depending on the battery's type and capacit
How to charge a battery. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on. It uses mains current to replace the battery's lost. through positive and negative leads that clip to the corresponding battery posts. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on.