1 Do not suppress coughing by taking any kind of cough suppressants. 2  It can cause an accumulation of the phlegm in your lungs and upper respiratory system and result in more serious problems. 3  Coughing helps in removing the mucus from your body.
Yellow snot is a sign of a cold, as it shows white blood cells are rushing to the site of the infection. Green mucus shows the immune system is fighting back as it turns that colour due to dead white blood cells. If mucus is pink or red it means the nasal tissue has become broken and is bleeding.
Phlegm is the mucus that is produced in the respiratory system. Phlegm acts as a natural defense mechanism to protect you against any bacterial and viral infections of the respiratory system. It contains various chemicals which fight virus and bacteria.
1 It can cause an accumulation of the phlegm in your lungs and upper respiratory system and result in more serious problems. 2  Coughing helps in removing the mucus from your body. 3  Take some good expectorant instead in order to eliminate yellow phlegm or yellow green phlegm that is being produced.
What does Yellow Phlegm Mean. Yellow phlegm means that you are suffering from cold and flu or your upper respiratory tract is under the influence of some microbial infection. Dark yellow phlegm or thick yellow phlegm indicates an infection of lower respiratory tract or sinuses.
You might have heard that yellow or green mucus is a clear sign that you have an infection, but despite that common misperception, the yellow or green hue isn't due to bacteria. When you have a cold, your immune system sends white blood cells called neutrophils rushing to the area. These cells contain a greenish-colored enzyme, and in large numbers they can turn the mucus the same color. But you can have perfectly clear mucus and have a terrible ear and sinus infection , Kao says.
Normal Mucus is a whitish cloudy looking glob – Your fine! Dr Oz Phlegm – Yellow Phlegm Green Phlegm Red Phlegm Yellow phlegm means a viral infection – If you yellow phlegm, you could see this color phlegm if you have a cold or bronchitis. It has a thicker consistency.
A thick and dark yellow phlegm may be a sign of a viral or bacterial infection, sinus infection, or lower respiratory tract infection. Typically, this occurs when the immune system sends white blood cells, known as neutrophils, to the area of