The diaphragm in the respiratory system is the dome-shaped sheet of muscle that separates the chest from the abdomen. It is also referred to the thoracic diaphragm because it’s located in the thoracic cavity, or chest. 
The diaphragm is a skeletal muscle that separates the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities. It is innervated by the phrenic nerve. The diaphragm is the main muscle of re … spiration, with diaphragmatic contraction responsible for 75% of the air movement in a normal breath at rest. 
Summary Information: Phrenic Nerve. Phrenic Nerve: The phrenic nerve is a paired nerve that arises from some of the spinal nerves of the cervical region (C3-C5). The phrenic nerve innervates contractions of the diaphragm, which is vital to respiration. It also innervates some sensation to the chest and upper abdomen. Conditions that afflict the phrenic nerve include hiccups, trauma, muscular dystrophy, tumor, neuropathy, and infection.
The phrenic nerve is a nerve that originates in the neck (C3-C5) and passes down between the lung and heart to reach the diaphragm. It is important for breathing, as it passes motor information to the diaphragm and receives sensory information from it. There are two phrenic nerves, a left and a right one. The phrenic nerve originates mainly from the 4th cervical nerve, but also receives contributions from the 5th and 3rd cervical nerves (C3-C5) in humans.
The phrenic nerve is a mixed motor/sensory nerve that courses through the neck and thorax to innervate the diaphragm. Arises from the ventral rami of the C3, C4 and C5 nerve roots, part of the cervical plexus. The phrenic nerve is the sole motor supply to each hemidiaphragm. It also provides sensory supply to: 1  diaphragm (except the most peripheral diaphragm, which is supplied by intercostal nerves). 2  mediastinal pleura.
The diaphragm is a skeletal muscle that separates the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities. It is innervated by the phrenic nerve. Skeletal muscle tissue is a voluntary type of muscle tissue that is used in the contraction of skeletal … parts. It is striated (alternating with light and dark bands, called striations) and is attached to bones.
Phrenic Nerve: motor nerve of the diaphragm; phrenic nerve fibers originate in the cervical spinal column and travel through the cervical plexus to the diaphragm. The phrenic nerve innervates contractions of the diaphragm, which is vital to respiration. It also innervates some sensation to the chest and upper abdomen. Conditions that afflict the phrenic nerve include hiccups, trauma, muscular dystrophy, tumor, neuropathy, and infection.
Diaphragm and Phrenic Nerve. ++. The diaphragm is a large dome shaped muscle that separates the chest and abdominal cavities. The lower edge of the diaphragm is attached to the inner surface of ribs 6 through 12, the xiphoid process of the sternum and the upper 2 or 3 lumbar vertebrae (L1, L2, L3) . The phrenic nerves arise from the 3rd through 5th spinal nerves. Spinal cord injury above the level of the third vertebrae can cause disruption of nerve impulses that travel from the brain to the phrenic nerves. This can cause paralysis of the diaphragm and the need for the injured person to be on a respirator.
Innovative new surgery repairs phrenic nerve injury, restores breathing function. The phrenic nerve controls function of the diaphragm muscle-the primary muscle involved in breathing. It tells the diaphragm when to contract, allowing the chest cavity to expand and triggering the inhalation of air into the lungs. 