On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. 
Best Answer: The treaty of versailles was signed in Paris on the 28th June 1919. It affected people in germany for many reasons. I have recently studied this topic for my GCSE and we were taught the acronym of LAMB. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The treaty of versailles was signed in Paris on the 28th June 1919. It affected people in germany for many reasons. I have recently studied this topic for my GCSE and we were taught the acronym of LAMB. L is for land. Germany lost 13% of its land which contained 6 million people
It was the Versailles treaty which really put gave Hitler power. The German people have a strong sense of national pride and now they were being humiliated, they were in ruin. They seeked a saviour and they got Hitler. He promised to bring back Germany on the world stage, to create jobs, wealth, infrastructure. 
Confidence votes 59. The treaty assessed responsibility for the war. Germany was forced to take full responsibility for the conflict. the treaty forced Germany to limit the size of its military and they had to return conquered lands to France and Russia.
The Impact of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was the Peace Settlement between the Allies and Germany at the end of the First World War. The German authorities had little choice but to accept the terms of the Treaty presented by 'the Big Three'. This section looks at some of the implications of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. The financial impact of the Treaty. The Treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for the First World War. As a result of this Germany was also held accountable for the cost of the war and the Treaty dictated that compensation would have to be paid to the Allies.
The Treaty of Versailles had both an economic and nationalistic effect on Germany. The economic effect of the Treaty of Versailles had to do with the substantial amount of money that Germany had to pay for the war, because the blame was put entirely on them. The Treaty of the Versailles affect Germany by taking away German land in Europe, its colonies in Africa and the Pacific. It also limits the size of Germany's armed forces. It … also placed all the blame for the war on them. 4 people found this useful.
Germany violated the Treaty of Versailles by rebuilding their military. A part of the treaty was that Germany was not allowed to have a large military because of their aggress … ive actions in WWI. They also violated the treaty by invading Poland on September 1, 1939. Germany was forced to take full responsibility for the conflict. the treaty forced Germany to limit the size of its military and they had to return conquered lands to France and Russia.