Ecoflex is a pre-insulated pipe system at its best — versatile, flexible and durable. Ecoflex consists of Uponor crosslinked polyethylene (PEX) or high-density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe encased in closed-cell, PEX-foam insulation and covered by a watertight, corrugated HDPE jacket. Potable HDPE pipe is available in 1¼, 1½, 2, 3 and 4 sizes. 2  Ecoflex Potable Plus (one Uponor AquaPEX service pipe with heat trace) is available on a made-to-order basis. 3  Ecoflex Thermal and Potable PEX products up to 2 can use Uponor’s ProPEX® expansion fitting system.
JOIN THE QUIET REVOLUTION. Vauxhall’s ecoFLEX philosophy reflects a desire to address the environmental challenges of how cars are designed, built and operate in the real world, based on sustainability, fuel saving technology and the reduction of CO 2 emissions.
Biodegradable and Compostable Packaging solutions with ecoflex ®. ecoflex® is the first compostable polymer of BASF on a fossil basis and has been on the market since 1998. Whether in formulations made of thermoplastic starch and biodegradable synthetic polymers, or as a mono-application in the realm of flexible films, ecoflex® offers customers compostable solutions.
EcoFlex is the newest innovation in flexible control cables. By combining better performance and minimum environmental impact, EcoFlex uses its mPPE insulation and jacketing to provide all of the advantages in a smaller, lighter flexible control cable. EcoFlex Features. 1  Recyclable mPPE jacket and insulation.
The Benefits of ecoFLEX. Vauxhall's ecoFLEX engine technology has been developed to combine powerful and refined performance with engineering innovations aimed at tackling the modern challenges of efficiency and sustainability.
Ecoflex is a pre-insulated pipe system at its best — versatile, flexible and durable. Ecoflex consists of Uponor crosslinked polyethylene (PEX) or high-density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe encased in closed-cell, PEX-foam insulation and covered by a watertight, corrugated HDPE jacket.
GM Family 0 engine. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from EcoFLEX). The Family 0 is a family of inline piston engines that was developed by Opel, a subsidiary of General Motors, as a low-displacement engine for use on entry-level subcompact cars from Opel / Vauxhall.eneration III [edit]. The EcoFlex engine is a version of the TwinPort tuned to provide better fuel economy and lower emissions. The 1.4 L engine was introduced in 2008 and the 1.0 L engine in 2010. For model year 2012, the EcoFlex engines have been updated with double cam phasing (DCVCP) in a Gen III block.
ecoFLEX™: A blend of recycled polymers and wood byproducts, ecoFLEX exhibits the best characteristics of the polymers and wood that forms the basis for the material. ecoFLEX is the best of both. ecoFLEX is made by: The material is mixed with UV inhibitors and color blending compounds and granulated into a form that is used to mold the parts that are used to make an ecoFLEX based product.
Ecoflex is a pre-insulated pipe system at its best — versatile, flexible and durable. The pipe consists of Wirsbo hePEX™, Uponor AquaPEX® or HDPE tubing encased in closed-cell, PEX foam insulation and covered by a watertight, corrugated HDPE jacket. Ecoflex Thermal and Potable PEX products up to 2 can use Uponor’s proven ProPEX® fitting system. • All sizes of Ecoflex Thermal and Potable PEX can use Uponor’s WIPEX™ brass compression fittings.