The lungs are the major organs of respiration. They are located in the chest, either side of the mediastinum. The function of the lungs is to oxygenate blood. They achieve this by bringing inspired air into close contact with oxygen-poor blood in the pulmonary capillaries. The lungs lie either side of the mediastinum, within the thoracic cavity. Each lung is surrounded by a pleural cavity, which is formed by the visceral and parietal pleura. They are suspended from the mediastinum by the lung root – a collection of structures entering and leaving the lungs.
The lungs are the body's major organs of respiration. The two vital parts that make up the lungs are located on each side of the chest within the rib cage. They are separated by the heart and other contents of the mediastinumthe tissues and organs of the middle chest (e.g., the heart and large vessels, windpipe). Oxygen-poor blood is brought back to the lungs by the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery divides into branches that parallel the bronchial tubes and ends in a network of pulmonary capillaries (tiny blood vessels) within the walls of the small air passages and alveoli of the lungs.
1e. The Lungs FIG. 970 Front view of heart and lungs. (Pulmones)The lungs are the essential organs of respiration; they are two in number, placed one on either side within the thorax, and separated from each other by the heart and other contents of the mediastinum (Fig. 970). 
The lung is soft and protected by the ribcage. The purposes of the lungs are to bring oxygen (abbreviated O 2), into the body and to remove carbon dioxide (abbreviated CO 2). Oxygen is a gas that provides us energy while carbon dioxide is a waste product or exhaust of the body. To deliver oxygen to the body, air is breathed in through the nose, mouth or both. The nose is the preferred route since it is a better filter than the mouth. The nose decreases the amount of irritants delivered to the lung, whilst also heating and adding moisture (humidity) into the air we breathe.
Lungs and Blood Vessels. Your lungs and linked blood vessels deliver oxygen to your body and remove carbon dioxide from your body. Your lungs lie on either side of your breastbone and fill the inside of your chest cavity. Your left lung is slightly smaller than your right lung to allow room for your heart.
The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. The bronchioles eventually end in clusters of microscopic air sacs called alveoli.
In this image, lung tissue has been dissected away to reveal the bronchioles. The lung is the essential respiratory organ in many air-breathing animals, including most tetrapods, a few fish and a few snails. In mammals and most other vertebrates, two lungs are located near the backbone on either side of the heart. In the Australian lungfish, there is only a single lung, albeit divided into two lobes. Other lungfish and Polypterus, however, have two lungs, which are located in the upper part of the body, with the connecting duct curving round and above the esophagus.
The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. 
In humans, the lungs are located on either side of the heart in the chest, with the left lung sharing the left side of the space with the heart, which sits in an impression called the cardiac notch. In the Australian lungfish, there is only a single lung, albeit divided into two lobes. Other lungfish and Polypterus, however, have two lungs, which are located in the upper part of the body, with the connecting duct curving round and above the esophagus.