The color of fresh raw meat is determined largely by the amount of myoglobin a particular animal carries. Meat color is determined largely by the amount of myoglobin (protein) a particular animal carries. The more myoglobin the darker the meat, that simple. The color of cured meat is pink and is due to the reaction between nitrite and myoglobin. The color can vary from light pink to light red and depends on the amount of myoglobin a particular meat cut contains and the amount of nitrite the amount of nitrite added and the cooking temperature.
By understanding the many factors that influence meat color, we can manage color stability in meat products and maximize consumer quality perception. Unlike plant product color, the chemistry of meat color is primarily the chemistry of one pigment, called myoglobin. Myoglobin is a complex protein, similar in function to the blood pigment, hemoglobin, in that they both bind with the oxygen, which is required for metabolic activity of an animal. These pigments change considerably when meat is cooked. A brown pigment, which is denatured metmyoglobin, is formed with cooking, which normally cannot be changed to form another pigment. Historically, salt has been used for the preservation of meat. The salt-preserved meat product was usually brownish-gray in color. When sodium nitrite is added with the salt, the meat develops a red, then pink color, which is associated with cured meats such as ham, bacon, hot dogs, and bologna
Students should observe that the color of the meat containing nitrite is brighter red (nitrosomyoglobin) compared to the meat without nitrite. Page 3 of 3. Cook the meat by heating the beakers in a boiling water bath for 15 to 20 minutes; observe the color of the surface and the interior of the meat. These pigments change considerably when meat is cooked. A brown pigment, which is denatured metmyoglobin, is formed with cooking, which normally cannot be changed to form another pigment. Historically, salt has been used for the preservation of meat. The salt-preserved meat product was usually brownish-gray in color. When sodium nitrite is added with the salt, the meat develops a red, then pink color, which is associated with cured meats such as ham, bacon, hot dogs, and bologna
Myoglobin contains hemes, pigments responsible for the color of red meat. The color that meat takes is partly determined by the degree of oxidation of the myoglobin. It is an abnormal finding, and can be diagnostically relevant when found in blood. Myoglobin is the primary oxygen-carrying pigment of muscle tissues. High concentrations of myoglobin in muscle cells allow organisms to hold their breath for a longer period of time.
Not only is the color of fresh meat protected from degradation, but the pigments react with nitric oxide to produce the stable pigments characteristic of cured meat. These pink pigments are important to the acceptability of most processed meat products. Both nitrite and/or nitrate are used in meat curing for color stabilization. The end result is the same in either case, although the pathway for stabilization of color by nitrite is more direct. 
The more myoglobin there is in the cells, the redder, or darker, the meat. When dark meat is cooked, myoglobin's color changes depending on what the meat's interior temperature is. Rare beef is cooked to 140° F, and myoglobin's red color remains unchanged. Above 140° F, myoglobin loses its ability to bind oxygen, and the iron atom at the center of its molecular structure loses an electron. This process forms a tan-colored compound called hemichrome, which gives medium-done meat its color. White meat has a translucent glassy quality when it is raw. When it's cooked, the proteins denature and recombine, or coagulate, and the meat becomes opaque and whitish. Cows and pigs are both sources of dark meat, though pig is often called the other white meat.. Pigs' muscles do contain myoglobin, but the concentration is not as heavy as it is in beef. Chickens have a mixture of both dark and white meat, and fish is mainly white meat
Myoglobin is an iron-and oxygen-binding protein found in the muscle tissue of vertebrates in general and in almost all mammals. It is related to hemoglobin, which is the iron-and oxygen-binding protein in blood, specifically in the red blood cells. It is an abnormal finding, and can be diagnostically relevant when found in blood. Myoglobin is the primary oxygen-carrying pigment of muscle tissues. High concentrations of myoglobin in muscle cells allow organisms to hold their breath for a longer period of time.