For the grouping of the Maritime Provinces with Newfoundland and Labrador, see Atlantic Canada. Eastern Canada, defined politically. Eastern Canada (also the Eastern provinces) is generally considered to be the region of Canada east of Manitoba, consisting of the following provinces :
The East Coast of the United States is situated along the Atlantic Ocean and as such is also referred to as the ‘Atlantic Coast’ or the ‘Atlantic Seaboard’. East Coast experiences three climate regions from north to south. The region from Maine south to about Philadelphia has a temperate climate, while the region from Washington, DC south to central Florida has a subtropical climate. The southern part of Florida is tropical. The East Coast comprises cities and other destinations which are well known all over the world. 
Relative Location: North Carolina is located in the southeast region of the United States. The state is bordered by Virginia to the north, Tennessee to the west, South Carolina to the south, and Georgia to the southwest. The Atlantic Ocean forms North Carolina's eastern border. Piedmont. The Piedmont is the middle region of the state, located between the Coastal Plain and the Mountain regions. Piedmont is a French word meaning foot of the mountain.. The elevations of this region range from about 300 feet in the western Coastal Plain to about 1,500 feet near the mountains.
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are, from north to south, Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. Contents. The southern coastal areas from North Carolina south to Florida are often made up of barrier islands that front the coastal areas. Many of the larger capes along the lower East Coast are barrier islands like the Outer Banks of North Carolina and Cape Canaveral,Florida.
There are three basic climate regions on the East Coast from north to south: The region from northern Maine south to about central Connecticut has a continental climate, with warm summers and long, cold and snowy winters. The southern coastal areas from North Carolina south to Florida are often made up of barrier islands that front the coastal areas. Many of the larger capes along the lower East Coast are barrier islands like the Outer Banks of North Carolina and Cape Canaveral,Florida.
The name of the United States' East Coast derives from the idea that the contiguous 48 states are defined by two major coastlines, one at the western edge and one on the eastern edge. The southern coastal areas from North Carolina south to Florida are often made up of barrier islands that front the coastal areas. Many of the larger capes along the lower East Coast are barrier islands like the Outer Banks of North Carolina and Cape Canaveral,Florida.
The Middle East is a large and diverse geographical area located in southwest Asia and northeast Africa. It extends over 2,000 miles from the Black Sea in the north to the Arabian Sea in the south, and about 1,000 miles from the Mediterranean Sea in the west to the mountains of Iran. 
Between the Rockies in the West and the Appalachian Mountains in the East is the large lowland area called the Interior Plains. The dry western part of the region is called the Great Plains. The eastern part is called the Central Plains. Scientists believe that a great inland sea once covered the Interior Plains. The westernmost region of North America is the pacific Coast. It includes high mountain ranges that stretch from Alaska to Mexico. In the United States, some of these western ranges are near the Pacific Ocean. The Cascades and the Sierra Nevada stand a bit farther inland.
Eastern Canada (also the Eastern provinces) is generally considered to be the region of Canada east of Manitoba, consisting of the following provinces 1  : New Brunswick. 2  Newfoundland and Labrador. 3  Nova Scotia. 4  Ontario. 5  Prince Edward Island. Eastern Canada (also the Eastern provinces) is generally considered to be the region of Canada east of Manitoba, consisting of the following provinces :