I just received a question in an email, “Should i tithe before or after taxes”. It’s a good question. Even though there are many other difficult questions in regards to tithing, many people have been confused for some time about whether they should tithe on the gross or net. Tithing is a complicated matter. Tithing before or after taxes is just the beginning of the complications. Through all of this i am reminded of the verse In Romans 2:29 – “ and circumcision is that of the heart, in the Spirit, not in the letter ”. Those who have a heart towards God will seek obedience
We should not think that tithing upon our after-tax income might be robbing God (since a tenth of the pre-tax income would be a larger offering). Scripture teaches us that the money which we pay in taxes is money paid to civil officials who are nothing less than ministers of God (Rom. 13:1-7). 
As a Christian, I should follow the instructions of my creator. He says it is good for me to give a tithe so I take his word for it. For the past year or two we have been giving based on gross income (before tax), and I know we have been blessed by it. Arguing with myself. The side of me that argues to continue tithing on the gross (Before-tax me) is arguing with the After-tax me. Before-tax me: I wouldn’t mind giving a smaller tithe if it were the right thing to do.
God gave you the source of your increase. 10% of the proceeds of the increase is your tithe and should be paid to God. Yes, your tax is paid with your consent. You agreed that a percentage of your money is taxed. It cant be paid as yours if you did not earn it. Your increase or income is what you earn. Arguing with myself. The side of me that argues to continue tithing on the gross (Before-tax me) is arguing with the After-tax me. Before-tax me: I wouldn’t mind giving a smaller tithe if it were the right thing to do.
We are to give alms of such things as we have, I usually go with 10% Tithe, 10% Offering, & 10% Alms of whatever amount I believe I have, before, or after taxes. I encourage prayer,and openess towards God on the subject, he will direct you in the right way. We were set free from the Law, so we could establish the Law. Tithing is a complicated matter. Tithing before or after taxes is just the beginning of the complications. Through all of this i am reminded of the verse In Romans 2:29 – “ and circumcision is that of the heart, in the Spirit, not in the letter ”. Those who have a heart towards God will seek obedience
You negotiated for your gross or you earned your gross and so your tithe should be based on your earning which is your gross because your gross is your increase;your income. The difference is that you gave the govt consent to take the tax which is a portion of your earning. Arguing with myself. The side of me that argues to continue tithing on the gross (Before-tax me) is arguing with the After-tax me. Before-tax me: I wouldn’t mind giving a smaller tithe if it were the right thing to do.
Question: The simple answer is no. Taxes rebates do not effect your tithe. Tithes are given on your net income before tax-since tax should be regarded as a living expense not a business expense-so if later a tax rebate comes in you do not need to give a tithe on it. Give your tithe on your written, stated pay calculation before any deductions are made from it for taxes and other living liabilities. This is so simple and once it's done you're completely finished with the whole matter and have only to wait expectantly for the blessings to arrive and the protection of God to manifest.
Share to: Your tithe should be 10% of your pre-tax income, NOT 10% of your take-home income. That way, when you file your taxes, you don't have to worry about what needs to be tithed. 