Eat a variety of healthy foods to maximize your nutrient intake. Vitamin C and the B-complex vitamins, which include thiamine, folate, biotin, riboflavin, pantothenic acid, niacin and vitamins B-6 and B-12, are all water-soluble vitamins. They are not stored in the body, so you need to consume foods or supplements containing these vitamins every day to meet your body's needs for these essential vitamins. Choosing nutrient-rich foods and preparing them in the right way can help increase your intake of water-soluble vitamins.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Your doctor will most likely recommend you increase the amount of riboflavin you get from your diet by eating more dairy products, fish or leafy vegetables. They might also recommend you take a vitamin or supplement to increase your riboflavin intake. 
Food Sources of Riboflavin (Vitamin B 2) Trusted advice from dietitians. www.dietitians.ca Information about Riboflavin • Riboflavin is a water-soluble B vitamin (vitamin B 2). This means that riboflavin is not stored in the body. You need to eat foods rich in riboflavin every day. • Riboflavin helps your body cells use fat, protein and carbohydrates from foods to produce energy. • Riboflavin helps in the production of niacin (vitamin B 3) and pyridoxine (vitamin B 6). 
1. Buy supplements to increase your daily B vitamin intake. You can buy a B-complex supplement that will provide the daily allowance or more of all the B vitamins, or supplements of particular vitamins, like folic acid (B9). In addition, multivitamins usually contain most or all of the B vitamins
Vitamin B2, also known as riboflavin, is arguably the only vitamin that gives you a visual cue as to its passage through your body. When there is a lot of vitamin B2 in the diet (or in a supplement), your urine turns bright yellow to show you it is there. Many types of vegetables are rich in vitamin B2. In addition to leafy greens, which are rich sources of a wide array of nutrients, we see other Brassica vegetables (including broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts), peppers, root vegetables, and squash on the list of vitamin B2-rich foods.
Vitamin B2 or riboflavin is an important B-vitamin that is needed by the body for proper energy metabolism and performing a wide variety of cellular functions. This water soluble vitamin is found in our major body organs, i.e. kidneys, liver and heart. 1. Nuts are categorized as nutrient dense foods which are rich in vitamins and minerals. Among the nuts, almonds are the best vitamin B2 rich foods providing 1.10 mg or 60% of the daily value (DV) of this vitamin in a 100 grams serving. Other nuts that contain riboflavin in smaller amounts include pistachios, pine nuts and cashew nuts, each providing 4% DV of vitamin B2 in an ounce serving
Hence, a certain amount of riboflavin is required for the maintenance of overall health. The best way to get the required intake of vitamin B2 is to consume foods that are rich in this vitamin as synthetic riboflavin is only absorbed at a rate of 15% when taken on an empty stomach. Besides, it is readily eliminated from your body through urine. 1. Nuts are categorized as nutrient dense foods which are rich in vitamins and minerals. Among the nuts, almonds are the best vitamin B2 rich foods providing 1.10 mg or 60% of the daily value (DV) of this vitamin in a 100 grams serving. Other nuts that contain riboflavin in smaller amounts include pistachios, pine nuts and cashew nuts, each providing 4% DV of vitamin B2 in an ounce serving