A police officer career is suited to anyone who thrives on challenges. You must be at least 21 years old and pass competitive written exams in order to become a police officer. Being agile and in good shape is also important, because police officers have to be fast on their feet.
Essential Information. Police officers enforce the laws of a community and ensure the safety of citizens and property. Students who want to become police officers must meet certain educational requirements, in addition to completing a training program. This article discusses the education required to become a police officer, as well as the career outlook. Police Officer: Educational Requirements for Police Officers. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a police officer. Get a quick view of the requirements-such as job duties, and education and training programs-to see if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Minimum / Maximum Age Requirement. While most agencies require you to be 21 by academy graduation date, some take cadets as young as 18. The maximum age can vary widely. Do not assume that just because you are over 30, your chances of becoming a police officer are over. Some agencies have no maximum age. Education Requirement. Most agencies expect officers to have a high school diploma or GED at a minimum. Some agencies require a bachelor’s degree or a minimum number of college credit hours. Others offer additional pay based on educational attainment. Regardless, education beyond high school will only help you in your law enforcement career
The minimum prerequisites for police officers include the following: 1  Be a United States citizen. 2  Be at least 21 years of age. 3  Have a high school diploma or equivalent education. 4  Possess a valid driver's license. Police Officer: Educational Requirements for Police Officers. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a police officer. Get a quick view of the requirements-such as job duties, and education and training programs-to see if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
POLICE OFFICER REQUIREMENTS. Prior to becoming a police officer, the following requirements must be met: Proof of passing score on the FBAT, CJBAT or FDLE police examination in the area of Law Enforcement. Click here for more information on the FBAT. 
In addition to earning a high school diploma, police officers receive training at a police academy. Some police officers complete degree programs in law enforcement or criminal justice as well, which can be helpful for career advancement. Police recruits also have to go through a series of examinations that are determined by their academy, which may include physical fitness testing and psychiatric review. Thus, students who are hired after high school must work and train until they are 21 in order to become an officer. Other basic prerequisites for police officers include being a U.S. citizen and having a valid drivers license and clean record.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a police officer. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about education, required examinations, training and job duties to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». Thus, students who are hired after high school must work and train until they are 21 in order to become an officer. Other basic prerequisites for police officers include being a U.S. citizen and having a valid drivers license and clean record.
1 Be a US citizen at the time of application. 2  Be 21 years of age. 3  Possess at least 20/100 vision, correctable to 20/30 in both eyes (contacts are permitted, but must be worn for six (6) months or Lasik-type surgery at least six (6) weeks prior to examination). 4  Pass a written test. 
Misdemeanors are handled on a case-by-case basis, and many departments also require applicants to be financially responsible. To become a law enforcement officer, you will also have to meet physical fitness, medical, vision, and hearing requirements. Testing for these are part of the hiring process, as well as interviews, a background check, written exam, drug test, written exam, and psychological evaluation. In fact, police officers now also perform the immigration duties once exclusive to INS agents, meaning that INS agents are now esentially police officers. Before you can become a police officer, you must first meet the minimum qualifications.
Police officer education requirements range from a high school diploma to a college degree. The minimum requirement is usually a high school diploma, although an increasing number of police departments require applicants to complete at least one or two years of college coursework or have an associate’s degree. A bachelor’s degree is the minimum requirement for federal police jobs. You must be at least 21 years old and pass competitive written exams in order to become a police officer. Being agile and in good shape is also important, because police officers have to be fast on their feet.