Another risk can arise where a business incurs large debts to suppliers and then fails. Operating as a sole trader means suppliers can attack the owner's personal assets to meet any shortfall the business owes. When the business is being started part-time, while the owner continues in full-time employment, operating as a sole trader allows the owner to reduce tax payable on the employment income if losses are made. This tax reduction is subject to the business satisfying non-commercial business loss provisions.
Legal liability and protection of personal assets are two areas where operating as a sole trader is a major disadvantage. In the event of a legal claim against the business, where insurance does not cover the full extent of any damages awarded, the owner's personal assets can be attacked to pay the damages. When the business is being started part-time, while the owner continues in full-time employment, operating as a sole trader allows the owner to reduce tax payable on the employment income if losses are made. This tax reduction is subject to the business satisfying non-commercial business loss provisions.
The business is classed as a micro-business, small business or SME, as they only have one employee who is the owner of the company. Example sole trader businesses include electricians, gardeners, plumbers, decorators and plasterers who are all traditional trades and easy for a skilled tradesman to operate. Full Control. The advantages of being a sole trader are immense not least because the owner has full control over the business for daily operations as well as how large they wish to grow it. It's easy to set yourself up as you only need to declare to yourself you are going to be a business.
Sole Traders. Running your business as a sole trader has several advantages. The main advantage is simplicity. Sole traders are individuals who trade under their own name, or under a business name, without setting up a formal legal entity such as a company, partnership or trust. Operating your business as a sole trader avoids the costs and formalities involved in establishing and operating a separate legal entity. From a tax perspective, if you operate your business as a sole trader, your tax liabilities are subject to the provisional tax payment regime. Running a business as a sole trader is best suited to a small business operated by one person, where income-splitting is not a consideration.
A sole trader and a partnership have the same main advantages and disadvantages – the main difference between the two is that a sole trader means that just one person owns the business; whereas a partnership means that there are two or more owners of the business. 
In simple terms, a sole trader is a business that is owned by one person, although you can also have people working for you. As a sole trader, you are personally trading as your business. It is different to operating as a limited company where the business is it’s own legal entity. As a sole trader, you and the business are treated as a single entity for tax and administrative purposes. 1  You are self-employed and you must register your self-employed status with HMRC.
The right business structure will depend on your individual circumstances, and for many the advantages of a limited company will outweigh the potential benefits of operating as a sole trader. There are also disadvantages to operating as a sole trader, which you should consider. As a sole trader, you’re in full control of your business, in the ultimate sense “your own boss”. You don’t need to consult other directors or shareholders, take account of their views or compromise your own vision for the business, meaning you can develop it exactly as you choose.
As a sole trader, you are the business. It is the simplest business structure. The structure is inexpensive to set up because there are few legal and tax formalities. In addition, if you operate your business as a sole trader, you trade on your own and control and manage the business. There is therefore more freedom to run the business as you wish and no potential for disagreement with business partners as to the future of the business. Usually, the most obvious way to do this is to operate as a sole trader. This article sets out the main advantages and disadvantages to operating as a sole trader and also discusses other business structure options, if you decide operating as a sole trader is not for you.