Businesses purchase commercial auto insurance to provide liability and physical damage coverage for autos they own, maintain or use. These may include cars, trucks, vans, trailers and buses. You will need commercial auto coverage if you use your car for deliveries or to transport people for a fee. If you don't know whether you are required to. carry a commercial insurance policy, check with your local insurance agent.
You need commercial auto insurance for any vehicle that your company uses for business purposes, any vehicle that has a commercial license plate or tag and any vehicle that is registered as a commercial auto. Whether you drive a vehicle that is for dedicated business use or drive a personal vehicle for business, it is important to have commercial auto insurance, as your vehicle will not covered under a personal auto policy.
1 Medical Payments: In the event of a crash, commercial auto insurance can cover medical expenses to the driver of the covered vehicle as well as passengers and drivers of other vehicles and bystander or pedestrians who may have been injured. 1 Uninsured motorist coverage will also cover damage done by a hit and run. 2  Collision: If an employee has an accident hitting another vehicle or object with a company vehicle (this includes telephone poles, mailboxes, and other structures), collision coverage is what you will rely on when making an auto-insurance claim.
But, seriously, knowing the difference between a personal auto insurance policy and a commercial auto policy (and when you need which) is important business—for your business. This type of business insurance covers a variety of vehicles. Commercial Vehicle Insurance is a policy of physical damage and liability coverages for amounts, situations, and usage not covered by a personal auto policy.
Some insurance companies will provide coverage if you use your vehicle for business, but you don’t make money directly from driving it. One example: If you drive to appointments to sell a product, your personal auto insurance may provide coverage. Check with your insurance company to be sure. Ask your insurance agent whether your car insurance policy will cover you in the event of an accident. That answer represents an important first step in making sure your auto insurance policy covers you, however you use your car. Sources: http://smallbusiness.chron.com/can-employers-make-use-own-vehicle-work-12597.html.
Commercial auto insurance works by providing insurance coverage or any vehicle that your use for business purposes, and for your commercial drivers. As a business owner, you can get commercial vehicle coverage for a single vehicle or a fleet of vehicles. Whether you drive a vehicle that is for dedicated business use or drive a personal vehicle for business, it is important to have commercial auto insurance, as your vehicle will not covered under a personal auto policy.
When you're reviewing the liability coverage options of your auto insurance policy, you will notice different limits: Property damage liability limit. This is the maximum amount your insurer would pay for damage to another party's property. Liability coverage typically doesn't pay for damage to your own car or costs associated with your own injuries from an accident you cause. There are other types of coverage to consider.
Similarly, your employees’ personal auto policies cover some business use of their vehicles too. A personal auto policy is unlikely to provide coverage, however, if the vehicle in question is used primarily in business. It will not provide coverage for any vehicle owned by a business. 
Commercial Auto Insurance For Your Business. Commercial vehicle insurance is needed to cover the cars, trucks, and vans used in conducting your business. Large fleets, as well as small businesses, should be properly covered by a commercial auto insurance policy. Commercial Vehicle Insurance is a policy of physical damage and liability coverages for amounts, situations, and usage not covered by a personal auto policy.