chenille. n. 1. (Textiles) a thick soft tufty silk or worsted velvet cord or yarn used in embroidery and for trimmings, etc. 2. (Textiles) a fabric of such yarn. 3. (Furniture) a rich and hard-wearing carpet of such fabric. Noun. 1. chenille-a soft tufted cord used in embroidery. chenille cord. chenille-a heavy fabric woven with chenille cord; used in rugs and bedspreads. cord-a line made of twisted fibers or threads; the bundle was tied with a cord.
1. : a wool, cotton, silk, or rayon yarn with protruding pile; also: a pile-face fabric with a filling of this yarn. 2. : an imitation of chenille yarn or fabric. See chenille defined for English-language learners. 
Chenille may refer to either a type of yarn or fabric made from it. Chenille is the French word for caterpillar whose fur the yarn is supposed to resemble. Since the late 1990s, chenille appeared in quilting in a number of yarns, yards or finishes. As a yarn, it is a soft, feathery synthetic that when stitched onto a backing fabric, gives a velvety appearance, also known as imitation or faux chenille.
In French, the word chenille means “caterpillar,” the worm-like insect that, after a period of time in a chrysalis, becomes a butterfly. Most caterpillars are a few inches long and are covered in short hairs that give them a fuzzy look. It is this particular look that provided the name for a certain type of fabric. Chenille yarn is quite thick, soft, and fuzzy, and lengths of it do look, in fact, like long caterpillars. Manufacturers of chenille begin by creating a tightly wound core for the yarn. Depending on the type of fabric that is used to create it, as well as the tonality of the color, chenille can have a lovely iridescent look to it without actually using iridescent fabric. Fabrics like mohair and wool are named specifically for the type of fibers that they are made of.
When buying chenille fabric to upholster furniture, it is important to match the properties and aesthetics of the fabric with the piece of furniture to be covered. One needs to think about how the furniture will be used, and whether chenille fabric is appropriate for the piece. 10 hilariously insightful foreign words. There are several things to consider when buying chenille upholstery, such as what the fabric will be used for, how it will be used, and fabric care. Before discussing these issues, it is useful to know what it is and how it is manufactured. The word “chenille” refers to the process by which the fabric is mad
Chenille fabric. Chenille may refer to either a type of colored yarn or fabric made from it. Chenille, the French word for caterpillar, is typically used to describe a type of fabric. Many fabrics, such as mohair and wool, get their names from the fibres with which they are made. Chenille, however, is named from the unique process by which it is made.
History [edit]. According to textile historians, chenille-type yarn is a recent technique, being produced in the 18th century and is believed to have originated in France. Back then the yarn was actually made by weaving a  leno  fabric and then cutting the fabric into strips to make the chenille yarn. Since the late 1990s, chenille appeared in quilting in a number of yarns, yards or finishes. As a yarn, it is a soft, feathery synthetic that when stitched onto a backing fabric, gives a velvety appearance, also known as imitation or faux chenille.