Naltrexone belongs to a class of drugs known as opiate antagonists. It works in the brain to prevent opiate effects (e.g., feelings of well-being, pain relief). It also decreases the desire to take opiates. This medication is also used to treat alcohol abuse. 
Naltrexone is a prescription drug. It belongs to a group of drugs known as opioid antagonists. These block the effects of heroin and other opioid drugs. Naltrexone is used in pharmacotherapy, in which a drug of dependence is replaced with a prescribed drug. Pharmacotherapy helps to stabilise people’s lives and reduce the harms related to drug use. 1
Low-dose naltrexone (LDN) is a safe, inexpensive, yet underused drug that is extremely beneficial for people with conditions marked by immune system dysfunction. Naltrexone has been used in 50 mg doses for decades to help patients recover from addiction to alcohol, heroin and other opiate drugs. However, more than 20 years ago it was discovered that very small doses of this drug—3 to 4.5 mg—have profound effects on the immune system. 
319 Reviews. Naltrexone is the generic form of the brand-name drug Vivitrol, which is used to prevent substance abuse in people who have been addicted to alcohol or opioid pain medications. Examples of opioid painkillers include Norco (hydrocodone/acetaminophen), OxyContin (oxycodone), and codeine. Although primarily an oral drug taken in pill form, naltrexone implants, which are inserted into the lower abdominal wall under local anesthetic, have been used to treat opioid addiction and/or abuse/misuse. Implants release a controlled amount of naltrexone into the body and are effective for three to six months.
Naltrexone is not a narcotic. It works by blocking the effects of narcotics, especially the high'' feeling that makes you want to use them. It also may block the high'' feeling that may make you want to use alcohol. It will not produce any narcotic-like effects or cause mental or physical dependence. Naltrexone will cause withdrawal symptoms in people who are physically dependent on narcotics. Naltrexone treatment is started after you are no longer dependent on narcotics. The length of time this takes may depend on which narcotic you took, the amount you took, and how long you took it.
Naltrexone is a medication that blocks the effects of drugs known as opioids (a class that includes morphine, heroin or codeine). It competes with these drugs for opioid receptors in the brain. No, naltrexone is only one component of a program of treatment for alcoholism including counseling, help with associated psychological and social problems and participation in self-help groups. In both studies where naltrexone was shown to be effective, it was combined with treatment from professional psychotherapists.
Descriptions. Naltrexone is used to help narcotic dependents who have stopped taking narcotics to stay drug-free. It is also used to help alcoholics stay alcohol-free. The medicine is not a cure for addiction. Naltrexone will cause withdrawal symptoms in people who are physically dependent on narcotics. Naltrexone treatment is started after you are no longer dependent on narcotics. The length of time this takes may depend on which narcotic you took, the amount you took, and how long you took it.
Uses of This Medicine. Naltrexone is used to help narcotic dependents who have stopped taking narcotics to stay drug-free. It is also used to help alcoholics stay alcohol-free. The medicine is not a cure for addiction. Naltrexone will cause withdrawal symptoms in people who are physically dependent on narcotics. Naltrexone treatment is started after you are no longer dependent on narcotics. The length of time this takes may depend on which narcotic you took, the amount you took, and how long you took it.
Naltrexone reverses the effects of opioids and is used primarily in the management of alcohol dependence and opioid dependence. It is marketed in generic form as its hydrochloride salt, naltrexone hydrochloride, and marketed under the trade names Revia and Depade. The main use of naltrexone is for the treatment of alcohol dependence. Naltrexone has been shown to decrease heavy drinking. The evidence for bringing about no drinking is less clear.
Naltrexone is used to help narcotic dependents who have stopped taking narcotics to stay drug-free. It is also used to help alcoholics stay alcohol-free. The medicine is not a cure for addiction. Remember that use of naltrexone is only part of your treatment. Be sure that you follow all of your doctor's orders, including seeing your therapist and/or attending support group meetings on a regular basis. Do not try to overcome the effects of naltrexone by taking narcotics. To do so may cause coma or death.