An aromatic spice with a distinctive bitter flavor and strong, warm aroma due to its abundant oil content. Cumin seeds are actually the small dried fruit of an annual plant in the parsley family. Native to the Mediterranean, cumin is hotter to the taste, lighter in color, and larger than caraway, another spice it's sometimes confused with. Sold whole or ground, the seeds come in three colors: amber, white or black. Substitutions: caraway seeds (use half as much); or caraway seeds plus anise seeds; or chili powder; or Amber cumin seeds may be substituted for white cumin seeds and vice versa.
Cumin is the dried seed of the herb Cuminum cyminum, a member of the parsley family. The cumin plant grows to 30–50 cm (12–20 in) tall and is harvested by hand. It is an annual herbaceous plant, with a slender, glabrous, branched stem which is 20–30 cm (8–12 in) tall and has a diameter of 3–5 cm (1 1⁄4 –2 in). Cumin seed is used as a spice for its distinctive flavour and aroma. It is globally popular and an essential flavouring in many cuisines, particularly South Asian (where it is called jeera), Northern African, and Latin American cuisines.
Cumin is also a main component of curry powder and a number of hot spice mixtures including garam masala and baharat, the North African hot spice blend that is used as a rub or flavour for lamb and other meat or poultry dishes. To bring out the best flavour of the seeds, they are usually toasted in a dry frying pan or with a little butter before adding to other ingredients. Below are a number of ideas on how to use cumin, whole or ground in your cooking. 1  Cumin is a must for chilli con carne and other Tex-Mex dishes.
Cumin is used both as seeds and ground. The seeds resemble caraway, which isn't a surprise because the herb is closely related to both caraway and parsley. As with most spices, for optimum flavor you should buy the whole seeds and grind them into a powder yourself with a mortar and pestle. Cumin is common in Mexican cooking, often used in tandem with chili powder — in fact, most pre-packaged chili powder you buy at the supermarket has cumin in it. The Szechuan region of China utilizes cumin, and the Dutch put cumin in Leyden cheese. When we said cumin's been used for milennia, we weren't kidding.
Ground cumin, or Cuminum cyminum, is a spice native to regions of the Mediterranean and Asia. Now used worldwide, cumin adds distinctive savory flavor to soups, entrees and salads. Cumin contains a heart-healthy antioxidant called curcumin, along with other compounds that provide health benefits. Low-sodium herbs and spices, such as ground cumin, add flavor to food so that you can use less salt and other high-sodium seasonings during cooking and at the table. Cooking with ground cumin can help prevent iron deficiency, since each teaspoon provides 4 milligrams of iron, or 22 percent of the daily value.
Cumin can be used ground or as whole seeds. It helps to add an earthy and warming feeling to food, making it a staple in certain stews and soups, as well as spiced gravies such as chili. It is also used as an ingredient in some pickles and pastries. Cumin seed is used as a spice for its distinctive flavour and aroma. It is globally popular and an essential flavouring in many cuisines, particularly South Asian (where it is called jeera), Northern African, and Latin American cuisines.
Cumin seeds are used as a spice for their distinctive aroma, popular in North African, Middle Eastern, Western Chinese, Indian, Cuban and Mexican cuisine. Cumin's distinctive flavour and strong, warm aroma is due to its essential oil content. [edit] Description Cumin is the dried seed of the herb Cuminum cyminum, a member of the parsley family. The cumin plant grows to 30-50 cm (1-2 ft) tall and is harvested by hand. Cumin is a key component in both chili powder and curry powder.
Cumin seed can be used whole or ground and even lends itself to some pastries and pickles. A mix of cumin, garlic, salt, and chili powder on grilled corn on the cob is delicious. In some regions of the world, cumin is thought to aid in digestion. Cumin is native to the eastern Mediterranean through to East India. Cumin (Cuminum cyminum) is an annual flowering plant from the family Apiaceae, or parsley family, whose seeds are used in the cuisines of Mexico, Asia, the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
Ground cumin is an essential spice in curry powder and is found in Indian, Vietnamese and Thai foods. Many Latino recipes call for the use of cumin; and in the United States, many a chili recipe includes cumin. In India, cumin is a traditional ingredient in not only curry, but kormas, masalas, soups and other recipes. Cumin is native to the eastern Mediterranean through to East India. Cumin (Cuminum cyminum) is an annual flowering plant from the family Apiaceae, or parsley family, whose seeds are used in the cuisines of Mexico, Asia, the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
Ground cumin is the focal point of a simple spice rub used to coat skillet-cooked pork chops. Make extra of the flavorful rub because you'll want to try it on chicken, pork tenderloin, and beef. A mixture of whole cumin seeds, coriander seeds, fennel seeds, and panko (Japanese breadcrumbs) makes a flavorful crispy topping for baked salmon. The creamy sauce served on the side is flavored with ground cumin, citrus, and red pepper.