For the most part, if you let snakes alone, they'll leave you alone. A Copperhead snake bite needs medical attention, is extremely painful, and may cause extensive scarring and loss of use. Many people are bitten while trying to kill or handle the snake. Don't take chances -- avoid these snakes. North Carolina has the dubious distinction of the most venomous snake bites of any state in the U.S. Many of these bites could be prevented by avoiding the snake instead of trying to kill it or pick it up.
Copperheads(Agkistrodon contortrix)ARE venomous, and bites are not pleasant, but they are not usually fatal. Recently, an elderly man in TX died after being bitten by a Copperhead, but an investigation is still on-going to determine if another factor, such as a heart condition, might have been involved. Adults are usually in the range of 24 to 36 inches in length, although specimens of greater than 42 inches are not rare. They give live birth to young. Copperheads eat small rodents, birds, lizards, snakes, amphibians, and insects. Copperheads are venomous, pit vipers.
Most Deadly vs. Most Dangerous. It is important to keep in mind when discussing venomous snakes that the most deadly snake and the most dangerous snake are two entirely different concepts. Some of the snakes with the most toxic venom – in other words, more deadly-rarely bite people
Small animals, like small dogs, may receive a fatal bite from a copperhead. The venom causes local tissue destruction and secondary infection often sets in. If you or your pet are bitten by any snake that you suspect is venomous, get medial attention immediately. Many people are bitten while trying to kill or handle the snake. Don't take chances -- avoid these snakes. North Carolina has the dubious distinction of the most venomous snake bites of any state in the U.S. Many of these bites could be prevented by avoiding the snake instead of trying to kill it or pick it up.
Like most snakes, copperheads are not dangerous unless cornered or threatened and even then they prefer to escape without incident. Sometimes they remain motionless, relying on their natural camouflage to conceal them from danger. When provoked however, the copperhead can and will strike more than once. Though often the target of rashly misguided shovels and hoes, the copperhead is one of Oklahoma's most beautiful and valuable reptiles. One of the three venomous snakes found in Oklahoma, the copperhead (Agkistrodon contortix) inhabits the eastern and central portions of Oklahoma.
The copperhead was responsible for approximately 37 percent of all venomous snake bites in the U.S. in 2001 (Lavonas E.J. et al., 2004) 1, and most bites from the copperhead snake are in the eastern parts of the U.S., where they are more abundant. Copperheads can reach lengths of 40 inches (1.05 meter), but the normal size is in the 24 to 36 inch range. Copperhead snakes eat small animals, such as rodents, cicadas, birds, lizards, amphibians, and all sorts of invertebrates, such as insects. They are nocturnal and primarily forage during the night.
This snake was transported to a non-habited area and released without harm to either the snake or the humans. Copperhead bites are typically not fatal, says Dr. Peter Bromley, N. C. Cooperative Extension Specialist in Zoology. Many people are bitten while trying to kill or handle the snake. Don't take chances -- avoid these snakes. North Carolina has the dubious distinction of the most venomous snake bites of any state in the U.S. Many of these bites could be prevented by avoiding the snake instead of trying to kill it or pick it up.
A difference between copperheads and the other species appears in the next phase, when they are approached. Most rattlesnakes vibrate their tails and most cottonmouths sit with mouth open when a human comes near. Even some non-venomous snakes vibrate their tails. These displays are merely warnings not to tread on them. Many people are bitten while trying to kill or handle the snake. Don't take chances -- avoid these snakes. North Carolina has the dubious distinction of the most venomous snake bites of any state in the U.S. Many of these bites could be prevented by avoiding the snake instead of trying to kill it or pick it up.
The Copperhead is the most common venomous snake found in the eastern US. It is also known by the name Highland Moccasin.. As a species, it belongs to the genus Agkistrodon which also includes the Cottonmouth, also known as the Water Moccasin. Copperheads are usually colorful and strikingly patterned snakes. Adults are usually in the range of 24 to 36 inches in length, although specimens of greater than 42 inches are not rare. They give live birth to young. Copperheads eat small rodents, birds, lizards, snakes, amphibians, and insects. Copperheads are venomous, pit vipers.
Many of the world's venomous snakes have venom that is straightforward and “easy” to treat effectively with the proper antivenoms-Mamba bites, for example. Other species may cause a clinical explosion of problems for which antivenoms are not very effective-some rattlesnake bites are this way. It is important to keep in mind when discussing venomous snakes that the most deadly snake and the most dangerous snake are two entirely different concepts.