After you have put soil at the bottom of your new pot, remove your African Violet from its current pot. To do this, simply place your hand over the top of the pot so that the crown of the plant is between your fingers. When doing so, be careful not to damage any of the leaves or stems. Next, turn the pot upside-down.
1 Soil. 2  Get some good soil. 3  You can buy special African violet soil, which is perfect. 4  Or, if you already have some ordinary potting soil, you can make your own African violet soil. 5  Mix the potting soil with peat moss and vermiculite or perlite, as follows: 1/3/ potting soil, 1/3 peat moss, 1/3 vermiculite or perlite.
A good potting soil for African Violets actually contains no soil (or dirt) at all. A good potting soil will be very light and porous, a quality which enhances aeration, while keeping the soil moist, but not soggy. Such a potting soil will be made primarily of block-harvested, sphagnum peat moss.
African violets grow in a very wide range of soils and soil mixtures. Gardeners get the best results with well drained, well aerated soil that contains a high percentage of humus or organic matter. Generally, a mixture of 1 part leaf mold, 1 part peat moss, 1 part sand and 2 parts loamy top soil gives good results.
Potting Soil for African Violets. Selecting the right potting soil is critical to the success of your African Violet. Heavy mixes can easily crush the roots of African Violets. In addition, because heavy potting mixes hold so much water, they tend to leave African Violets vulnerable to such deadly pathogens as Crown Rot, Root Rot and Pythium.
Rated 5 out of 5 best soil for African Violets! When it was time to re-pot my violets,I immediately bought this potting mix as well as the African Violet Plant Food. Both items are excellent.
Many successful growers of African Violets recommend repotting with fresh potting soil, twice a year or more. At the very least, an African Violet should be repotted whenever the plant becomes rootbound, i.e., the Violet has outgrown its current pot to the extent that its roots are growing out and around the rootball.