How to Grow Roma Tomatoes. Caring for roma tomato plants is not that much different from caring for regular tomatoes. All tomatoes need plenty of water, soil rich in organic material and need to be staked up off the ground for the best fruit production. Roma tomatoes are no different. Once you plant your roma tomato plants, water them at least once a week. Once your roma tomato plants are 6″ – 12″ high, start staking the roma tomatoes up off the ground. Romas do tend to be a little easier to grow than other tomatoes due to the fact than many are fusarium and verticillium wilt resista
Tomatoes with the shortest maturity time do best in areas with short growing seasons and cool summers. Harvest time for Sub Arctic Plenty, a determinate variety, is roughly 45 days from the transplanting date, and each tomato weighs about 4 ounces. Early Girl and Early Cascade are ready to pick in about 55 days.
Small Varieties. Smaller tomatoes such as cherry or grape grow on vigorous plants and usually produce high yields. Ready in 65 to 70 days, the small fruit measuring 1 to 1 1/2 inches is marketed as Super Sweet 100, Yellow Pear and Large Red Cherry. Harvest time for Sub Arctic Plenty, a determinate variety, is roughly 45 days from the transplanting date, and each tomato weighs about 4 ounces. Early Girl and Early Cascade are ready to pick in about 55 days.
Seeds or Seedlings 6 to 12 days, 60F to 95F 4 years Well Drained Full Sun 1/8 deep in flats 12 to 36  apart 65 to 80 Growing Guide SOWING NOTES Tomatoes require a long growing season, and are best started indoors 6 weeks before the anticipated transplanting date (after the final frost of the spring). For best results, sow seeds ½ deep in a well-drained, soilless starting mix. 12 to 24 inches apart for determinate varieties. 14 to 20 inches apart for staked indeterminate varieties. 24 to 36 inches apart for unstaked indeterminate varieties. Tomatoes can be cultivated in close proximity to carrots, onions, chives, garlic, asparagus, roses, and nettle.
Extended and Super-Sized Tomatoes. Extra-large tomato varieties were bred for their fruit size. Tomatoes can grow to 1 1/2 to 3 pounds in weight. These plants have an average production time of about 80 to 85 days, and include the Beefsteak, Shuntukski Velikan and Neves Azorean Red.
There are a few factors that determine the length of time it takes for a tomato to grow, and the breed of the tomato is the first and most important of these. Some breeds take about 45 days to produce their first tomato, and some can take up to 100 days. Tomatoes can grow to 1 1/2 to 3 pounds in weight. These plants have an average production time of about 80 to 85 days, and include the Beefsteak, Shuntukski Velikan and Neves Azorean Red.
The heirloom roma tomato is prized for its small, 2 inch to 3 inch long fruit that are primarily used for cooking your favorite soups and sauces. Add 2 inches of mulch around the base of each roma tomato plant once it reaches a height of 4 inches. This helps to prevent soil moisture loss through evaporation. Harvest the roma tomato fruit approximately 80 days after the seeds were first sown. The tomatoes are ready for picking when they are 2 inches in length.
Tomatoes can be eaten raw, or in sandwiches, or salads, or cooked up in recipes and sauces. Tomatoes take a considerable amount of time to grow so you must have long continued perseverance. Seriously, it takes around 59 to 85 days to produce a tomato crop. Growing tomatoes is not as diffucult as you would think. All you really need to grow tomatoes is the seeds, soil, water and the sun. It takes at least eight hours of sunlight per day to grow tomatoes. After planting the seeds in seven to ten days you’ll have seedlings. Depending upon the type of tomato you have chosen will determine how long it will take to get a crop of perfect and flavorful red tomatoes. Choosing the right variety might be diffucult.