Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a test that uses a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy to make pictures of organs and structures inside the body. In many cases, MRI gives different information about structures in the body than can be seen with an X-ray, ultrasound, or computed tomography (CT) scan. For an MRI test, the area of the body being studied is placed inside a special machine that contains a strong magnet. Pictures from an MRI scan are digital images that can be saved and stored on a computer for more study. The images also can be reviewed remotely, such as in a clinic or an operating room.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is done for many reasons. It is used to find problems such as tumors, bleeding, injury, blood vessel diseases, or infection. MRI also may be done to provide more information about a problem seen on an X-ray, ultrasound scan, or CT scan. For an MRI test, the area of the body being studied is placed inside a special machine that contains a strong magnet. Pictures from an MRI scan are digital images that can be saved and stored on a computer for more study. The images also can be reviewed remotely, such as in a clinic or an operating room.
Introduction. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a type of scan that uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves to produce detailed images of the inside of the body. An MRI scanner is a large tube that contains powerful magnets. You lie inside the tube during the sca
Knowledge center. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan is a common procedure used by hospitals around the world. An MRI Scan utilizes a strong magnetic field and radio waves to create detailed images of the organs and tissues within the body. An MRI scan uses a large magnet, radio waves, and a computer to create a detailed cross-sectional image of the patient's internal organs and structures.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive medical test that physicians use to diagnose and treat medical conditions. MRI uses a powerful magnetic field, radio frequency pulses and a computer to produce detailed pictures of organs, soft tissues, bone and virtually all other internal body structures. MRI does not use ionizing radiation (x-rays).
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the Head. Guide. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a test that uses a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy to take pictures of the head. In many cases, MRI gives information that can't be seen on an X-ray, ultrasound, or computed tomography (CT) scan. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head is done to: 1  Look for the cause of headaches. 2  Help diagnose a stroke or blood vessel problems in the head.
An MRI (or magnetic resonance imaging) scan is a radiology technique that uses magnetism, radio waves, and a computer to produce images of body structures. The MRI scanner is a tube surrounded by a giant circular magnet. The patient is placed on a moveable bed that is inserted into the magnet. 
More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  MRI scans are a non-invasive and painless procedure. 2  Unlike X-rays and CT scans, MRI does not ionize radiation, which is potentially harmful to the patient. 3  MRI is an acronym for magnetic resonance imaging. An MRI scan uses a large magnet, radio waves, and a computer to create a detailed cross-sectional image of the patient's internal organs and structures.
1 Blood vessels. 2  Using MRI to look at blood vessels and the flow of blood through them is called magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) . 3  It can find problems of the arteries and veins, such as an aneurysm, a blocked blood vessel, or the torn lining of a blood vessel (dissection). For an MRI test, the area of the body being studied is placed inside a special machine that contains a strong magnet. Pictures from an MRI scan are digital images that can be saved and stored on a computer for more study. The images also can be reviewed remotely, such as in a clinic or an operating room.