If you’re a Hotmail user, you can back up your email to Microsoft’s Web-based Outlook Express. Handy Backup is a program that works for most webmail programs, like Yahoo!, and allows you to back up your webmail to everything from a DVD to an online folder. For Yahoo!
1 Select File from the top menu bar. 2  Choose Data File Management or Account Settings under Tools.. 3  Select the Data Files tab and highlight the files you want to back up. 4  Click on Open Folder, and you will be taken to the .pst files.
1 To change the backup options, such as which .PST files to back up, click Options. 2  On the Start menu, point to Settings and then click Control Panel. 3  Double-click Add/Remove Programs. 4  In the list of currently installed programs, select Microsoft Outlook Personal Folders Backup and then click Remove or Add/Remove.
1 Start Outlook. 2  On the File menu, click Backup. 3  Click Options and select the .pst files that you want to back up. 4  Configure Outlook to allow the Personal Folders Backup add-in to run automatically on exit.
Remove an email account. Click the File tab. Under Account Information, click Account Settings, and then click Account Settings. Select the email account that you want to remove, and then click Remove.
For those who have a Exchange Account. If you would like to recall a email you sent a co-worker: 1  Go to the Sent Items folder and open the email you want to recall. 2  In Outlook 2010/2007, click on the Other Actions menu (or Actions depending on your Outlook settings) and select “Recall this message…”.
1 Go to the Sent Items folder and open the email you want to recall. 2  In Outlook 2010/2007, click on the Other Actions menu (or Actions depending on your Outlook settings) and select “Recall this message…”. 3  In Older versions, click on the Actions menu
1 Open Outlook. 2  On the Tools menu, click Options. 3  On the Mail Setup tab, click the E-mail accounts button, even if you do not have an email account specified. 4  Click to select the View or change existing e-mail accounts check box, and then click Next.