My (TAH, kept ovaries and cervix) surgery was to take about 1.5 hours. I am not sure how long I was actually in there. I checked into the hospital at noon for a 2:30 surgery. Around 2:45 they did take me back for my surgery. I know that I was out of surgery and recovery and taken to my room by 6:00 pm.
In general this is 1-2 weeks after surgery. You may bathe, or shower. Please do not place anything in the vagina or have intercourse for 4-6 weeks after surgery. For a radical hysterectomy, these usually take 3-4 hrs. Of course you are in the operating room for a longer period of time as it requires about 30-45 min of preparation time for the anesthesiologist to put you to sleep and get you properly positioned for the case.
If you had: You should get plenty of rest and not lift heavy objects for a full 6 weeks after surgery. About 6 weeks after either surgery, you should be able to take tub baths and resume sexual intercourse. Research has found that women with a good sex life before hysterectomy can maintain it after the surgery. I tell my patients that if they are having a total abdominal hysterectomy that this could be a good 5-6 week recovery. If they are having a laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy, 3-4 week recovery. If they are having a vaginal hysterectomy, 3
Recovery is usually 1-2 weeks long. Nothing should be placed in the vagina for 2 weeks, unless a total hysterectomy or any vaginal procedure has been performed. Read More. I think it should be a standard procedure when a woman comes in complaining of chronic pelvic pain.... 
The answer to this question has a great deal to do with the technique used to accomplish the surgery. If the hysterectomy is performed as an open abdominal procedure with a large incision in the abdomen (which in my opinion should be necessary in less than 1% of cases), then the pain can last from one to several weeks. 
The length of the procedure depends on what you are having done. A simple hysterectomy takes about an hour. If you have lymph nodes removed, this can take an additional 1 to 1-1/2 hrs. For a radical hysterectomy, these usually take 3-4 hrs. Of course you are in the operating room for a longer period of time as it requires about 30-45 min of preparation time for the anesthesiologist to put you to sleep and get you properly positioned for the case. ˆtop. 3
In general there will be 4-6 small (1/4) incisions in the abdomen. The number and size of these may vary depending on your condition and the exact procedure you are having. ˆtop. 2. For a radical hysterectomy, these usually take 3-4 hrs. Of course you are in the operating room for a longer period of time as it requires about 30-45 min of preparation time for the anesthesiologist to put you to sleep and get you properly positioned for the case.
Vaginal or laparoscopic surgery. Recovery takes 3 to 4 weeks. Recovering from a hysterectomy takes time. Most women stay in the hospital from 1 to 2 days for post-surgery care. Some women may stay longer, often when the hysterectomy is done because of cancer. I tell my patients that if they are having a total abdominal hysterectomy that this could be a good 5-6 week recovery. If they are having a laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy, 3-4 week recovery. If they are having a vaginal hysterectomy, 3
It is normal to have light vaginal bleeding or a dark brown discharge for about 4 to 6 weeks after surgery. You may feel discomfort at the incision site for about 4 weeks, and any redness, bruising or swelling will disappear in 4 to 6 weeks. 1 Drive when you feel capable and are no longer requiring narcotic pain medications-- about 2 weeks after surgery. 2  You can travel out of town 3 weeks after surgery, including air travel. 3  Avoid lifting heavy objects (over 10 pounds) for at least 4 weeks. 4  Do not douche or put anything into the vagina for 4 weeks.
1 A total hysterectomy is the removal of the uterus and cervix. 2  A total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is the removal of the uterus, cervix, fallopian tubes (salpingo) and ovaries (oophor). 1 Drive when you feel capable and are no longer requiring narcotic pain medications-- about 2 weeks after surgery. 2  You can travel out of town 3 weeks after surgery, including air travel. 3  Avoid lifting heavy objects (over 10 pounds) for at least 4 weeks. 4  Do not douche or put anything into the vagina for 4 weeks.