NATTOKINASE Overview Information. Nattokinase is an enzyme (a protein that speeds up biochemical reactions) that is extracted from a popular Japanese food called natto. Natto is boiled soybeans that have been fermented with a bacterium called Bacillus natto. Nattokinase, the chemical in natto that is probably responsible for its effects, was discovered by a University of Chicago researcher, Dr. Hiroyuki Sumi. You won’t find nattokinase in soy foods other than natto, since nattokinase is produced through the specific fermentation process used to make natto.
(1). Natto is known to be a rather acquired taste, probably due to its smell and texture; and for many people the ammonia smell may evoke a mixture of old socks and cheese. As for the texture, it’s resembles a gooey, stringy and sticky small bean, which also adds to its unappealing nature. Tofu, tempeh, miso and natto are all whole food forms of soybean. The key to natto’s health benefits is that it is fermented. Natto is made by soaking whole soybeans, then steaming or boiling them, and afterwards adding the bacteria Bacillus subtilis to the mixture.
Natto’s Smell. Natto’s smell is very…unique. Some of the foreigners I work with have explained the smell of natto as old cheese, old socks, hot garbage, etc. To me, the smell lies somewhere between cheese and old socks; it’s not the most pleasant of smells. How to Prepare and Eat Natto. Some natto packages usually include a special congealed, sauce to add flavor. Other containers include soy sauce and strong mustard. You add this sauce (or mustard & soy sauce) the soybeans and mix it well until you get a very sticky, stringy mixture.
Japanese Food: Natto Natto is a foul-smelling sticky web of fermented soybeans typically served with a Japanese breakfast. The smell will make you crazy, and the food will make you strong. That's that some Japanese folks believe.
Nattokinase is a highly purified enzyme which is produced by the fermentation process of soybeans. It is a fibrinolytic enzyme that has been scientifically proven to have many health benefits, primarily for the cardiovascular and circulatory system. 
Nattō (なっとう or 納豆) is a traditional Japanese food made from soybeans fermented with Bacillus subtilis var. natto. Some eat it as a breakfast food. Nattō may be an acquired taste because of its powerful smell, strong flavor, and slimy texture. 
Simply put, natto is fermented soybeans. Fermentation is the process of changing a carbohydrate to an alcohol or acid. Usually this is done with a bacteria or with yeast. In the case of natto it’s Bacilus Subtilis bacteria. How to Prepare and Eat Natto. Some natto packages usually include a special congealed, sauce to add flavor. Other containers include soy sauce and strong mustard. You add this sauce (or mustard & soy sauce) the soybeans and mix it well until you get a very sticky, stringy mixture.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Natto is an ancient Japanese food made from soybeans. It is soaked and fermented, which makes the soybeans quite sticky, and produces a springy or web effect between each bean. 
Many people eat these fermented soybeans as a part of a Japanese Style Breakfast, which may include fish, miso soup, rice, and tofu. I also understand that at some preschool, kindergarten, and early-elementary school children eat natto as a snack. How to Prepare and Eat Natto. Some natto packages usually include a special congealed, sauce to add flavor. Other containers include soy sauce and strong mustard. You add this sauce (or mustard & soy sauce) the soybeans and mix it well until you get a very sticky, stringy mixture.
* click here for information on the shelf life of NATTO. Natto is fermented soybeans. Natto has long been recognized as one of Japan's most unique traditional health foods. Highly nutritious and rich in protein, it is often eaten with cooked rice. For centuries, natto has been made using a specialized fermentation process by adding beneficial bacteria, Bacillus natto to soybeans. Fermentation enhances the nutrition of soybeans and develops a unique flavor and texture. Its physical texture is sticky and is a natural result of the fermentation proces