Zedi redirects here. For people named Zedi, see Zedi (name) . Stupa in Gotemba, Shizuoka, Japan. A stupa (Sanskrit: m., stūpa heap) is a mound-like or hemispherical structure containing śarīra relics, typically the remains of Buddhist monks or nuns, used as a place of meditation. Built for a variety of reasons, Buddhist stupas are classified based on form and function into five types: 1  Relic stupa, in which the relics or remains of the Buddha, his disciples and lay saints are interred.
Section of Stupa with dimensions. The Buddhist vihara at Sanchi, famous for its Great Stupa is located at Sanchi Town in Raisen District of the state of Madhya Pradesh, India, it is 46 Km north-east of Bhopal. The 'Great Stupa' at Sanchi is the oldest structure and was originally commissioned by the emperor Ashoka the Great in the 3rd century BCE. Its nucleus was a hemispherical brick structure built over the relics of the Buddha. It was crowned by the chatra, a parasol-like structure symbolising high rank.
The shape of the stupa represents the Buddha, crowned and sitting in meditation posture on a lion throne. His crown is the top of the spire; his head is the square at the spire's base; his body is the vase shape; his legs are the four steps of the lower terrace; and the base is his throne.. Built for a variety of reasons, Buddhist stupas are classified based on form and function into five types: 1  Relic stupa, in which the relics or remains of the Buddha, his disciples and lay saints are interred.
The Great Stupa at Sanchi. This is the Great Stupa at Sanchi, located on a hill in the countryside of central India just north of presentday Bhopal. It is the largest of several stupas at the site, which also includes the remains of several monastic buildings, including dining halls and pilgrim rooms
(Professor Robert Thurman, from the Foreword to Buddhist Stupas in Asia: the Shape of Perfection). Stupa is a Sanskrit word that means “to heap” or “to pile up” and refers to the mound-like shape of the earliest stupas. The Mahaparinirvana Sutra tells us that it was the Buddha himself who outlined the basic design of the stupa.
The stupa, an architectural structure usually housing the cremated remains or possessions of important saintly figures, is considered to be the structural emblem and the most important type of monument of Buddhism. Most stupas have a very distinctive semi-spherical shape, often surrounded by a fence. 
The Great Stupa at Sanchi is the oldest stone structure in India and was originally commissioned by the emperor Ashoka the Great in the 3rd century BCE. Its nucleus was a simple hemispherical brick structure built over the relics of the Buddha. The 'Great Stupa' at Sanchi is the oldest structure and was originally commissioned by the emperor Ashoka the Great in the 3rd century BCE. Its nucleus was a hemispherical brick structure built over the relics of the Buddha. It was crowned by the chatra, a parasol-like structure symbolising high rank.
Definition of STUPA. : a usually dome-shaped structure (as a mound) serving as a Buddhist shrine. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The stupa is the oldest Buddhist religious monument. In prehistoric times, stupas were simply mounds of earth and stones (tumuli) – places to bury important kings away from the village. Twenty-five-hundred years ago, at the time of Shakyamuni Buddha’s death, a change came about in the way stupas were regarded. 
1 Relic stupa, in which the relics or remains of the Buddha, his disciples and lay saints are interred. 2  Object stupa, in which the items interred are objects belonged to the Buddha or his disciples such as a begging bowl or robe, or important Buddhist scriptures. Built for a variety of reasons, Buddhist stupas are classified based on form and function into five types: 1 