Hi and thanks for posting. Rifafour is a 4 drug combination pill to treat tuberculosis. The pill is available in different strengths, noted by the dose of the e component, ethambutol. Dosing is based on weight. If your not sure what your correct dose is, it's good to confirm with your health care provider. 
7Treatment for TB infectionTreatment for TB infection: TB infection and TB disease are not treated the same way. If you have TB infection, you will probably just take INH (Isoniazid) for 6 to 9 months, or you may take INH and Rifapentine (RPT) for 3 months. Together, you and your doctor will decide which medicine is right for you. But it’s important to take TB medicine to kill these TB germs. Even though the TB germs are dormant, they are still very strong. As long as you have TB germs in your body, they can wake-up, multiply, and make you sick with TB disease. The only way to get rid of them is by taking TB medicines.
If your doctor feels you are at risk, you may be treated with medicine for TB. Cancer. For children and adults taking TNF blockers, including HUMIRA, the chance of getting lymphoma or other cancers may increase. There have been cases of unusual cancers in children, teenagers, and young adults using TNF blockers. HUMIRA is a medicine called a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker. HUMIRA targets and helps block TNF-alpha. TNF plays a role in the process that causes inflammation. Because TNF blockers, including HUMIRA, affect the immune system, they can lower the ability to fight infections and may cause other serious side effects.
With any medication, it is possible to have side effects. Most are nothing to worry about and will go away. Your TB nurse or doctor should advise you of potential side effects before you start your treatment. If tests show you have TB, you should be treated as soon as possible. This means you will feel better sooner and will be less likely to pass TB on. Maybe a family member or close friend can be your ‘treatment buddy’ and remind you to take your medicine. Your TB nurse will also support you through
medicines together can make you have a reaction. It is important for your. doctor to know all of the medicines you are taking. Then, your doctor. can choose the TB medicines that will work best for you. Write down all. of the medicines you are taking. Bring the list with you when you visit. the doctor. But it’s important to take TB medicine to kill these TB germs. Even though the TB germs are dormant, they are still very strong. As long as you have TB germs in your body, they can wake-up, multiply, and make you sick with TB disease. The only way to get rid of them is by taking TB medicines.
Treatment for tuberculosis (TB) will usually involve a long course of antibiotics lasting several months. While TB is a serious condition that can be fatal if left untreated, deaths are rare if treatment is completed. Treating tuberculosis. Treatment for tuberculosis (TB) will usually involve a long course of antibiotics lasting several months. While TB is a serious condition that can be fatal if left untreated, deaths are rare if treatment is completed. For most people, a hospital admission during treatment is not necessary.
With TB infection: You cannot pass TB germs to other people. You can go to work and school. You will need to stay on medicine so you don’t get TB disease. You will need to stay on the TB medicine for 3, 6, or 9 months, depending on what your doctor thinks is best for you. But it’s important to take TB medicine to kill these TB germs. Even though the TB germs are dormant, they are still very strong. As long as you have TB germs in your body, they can wake-up, multiply, and make you sick with TB disease. The only way to get rid of them is by taking TB medicines.
RIFAFOUR treatment of TB and Pregnancy sideeffects. My wife was diagnosed of TB early February 2007 and since then she has been on TB treatment RIFAFOUR (4tablets daily x 5 days a week). At the same time she was taking Marvelon pills as a contraceptive. She then missed her monthly period in May/June 2007 (last period was on 19 April 2007)
Rifafour is a combination of the 4 medications which are commonly used for initial management of tuberculosis. It contains rifampin (rifampicin) and this agent increases the activity of liver enzymes which metabolize estrogens in oral contraceptives. My wife was diagnosed of TB early February 2007 and since then she has been on TB treatment RIFAFOUR (4tablets daily x 5 days a week).