Silver sulfadiazine is an antibiotic. It fights bacteria and fungus on the skin. Silver sulfadiazine topical (for the skin) is used to treat or prevent infections on areas of burned skin. Silver sulfadiazine topical may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide.
Silver sulfadiazine (INN, or silvadene) is a topical sulfonamide / silver antibacterial used as a topical cream on burns. Evidence regarding its usefulness in burns is poor. Tentative evidence has found that silver sulfadiazine may increase healing times – wounds may take longer to heal if treated with this drug, so it is not recommended by the authors of a Cochrane review. Silver sulfadiazine is typically delivered in a cream or aqueous suspension
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Silver sulfadiazine is a topical (applied to the skin) antimicrobial agent used to treat and prevent skin infections caused by second or third degree burns. Silver sulfadiazine kills bacteria by damaging the bacterial cell membrane. Dr. Charles Pat Davis, MD, PhD, is a board certified Emergency Medicine doctor who currently practices as a consultant and staff member for hospitals. He has a PhD in Microbiology (UT at Austin), and the MD (Univ. Texas Medical Branch, Galveston).
Indicated as an adjunct for the prevention and treatment of wound sepsis in patients with second-and third-degree burns. Pharmacodynamics. Silver sulfadiazine has broad antimicrobial activity. It is bactericidal for many gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria as well as being effective against yeast. Silver sulfadiazine is not a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and may be useful in situations where such agents are contraindicated.
Silver sulfadiazine was approved by the FDA in 1973. PRESCRIBED FOR: Silver sulfadiazine is applied to the skin to treat and prevent wound infections associated with second or third degree burns. SIDE EFFECTS: Since silver sulfadiazine is applied to the surface of the skin, it rarely affects other areas of the body or causes long term side effects. Other rare skin reactions reported with silver sulfadiazine use include: 1  skin necrosis (skin death), 2  redness, 3  burning sensation of the treated area(s), 4  itching, 5  rash, and.
Featured article ». Silver sulfadiazine cream is used to prevent and treat wound infections in patients with second-and third-degree burns. Patients with severe burns or burns over a large area of the body must be treated in a hospital. Silver sulfadiazine is an antibiotic. It works by killing the bacteria or preventing its growth
Silver sulfadiazine is an antibacterial agent that has been used as a topical cream on burns. Silver sulfadiazine has been studied for its effect in patients with cancer for radiodermatitis. 