Indirect ELISA, conventional but efficient. Indirect ELISA is a two-step ELISA which involves two binding process of primary antibody and labeled secondary antibody. The primary antibody is incubated with the antigen followed by the incubation with the secondary antibody. However, this may lead to nonspecific signals because of cross-reaction that the secondary antibody may bring about. 1. Micro-well plates are incubated with antigens, washed up and blocked with BSA. 2.
An antibody of the same immunoglobulin subclass and from the same species as the primary antibody. This antibody is not raised against anything specific, and is used to confirm the primary antibody binding is specific and not a result of non-specific Fc receptor binding, or other protein interactions. This may help expose an epitope, or destroy it. Detection antibody. The primary antibody used in sandwich ELISA, which detects the immobilized antigen. This antibody can be directly conjugated or visualized following the application of a conjugated-secondary.
An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. The ability of an antibody to communicate with the other components of the immune system is mediated via its Fc region (located at the base of the Y), which contains a conserved glycosylation site involved in these interactions.
Characteristics of primary and secondary antibody responses. The major antibody class elicited during the primary immune response is immunoglobulin M (IgM) (red line) although low levels of IgG (blue line) may be detected. Antibodies of both classes are of low affinity. The levels of antibody subsequently decline. The primary and secondary antibody response and clonal expansion of B cells. In the primary response, initial encounter with antigen X stimulates naive Naïve b cells expressing the relevant receptor to proliferate and differentiate into plasma cells secreting specific. antibodies
When only a conjugated primary antibody is used for detection of the antigen. Epitope. The specific site where an antibody binds its antigen via its variable region. Note, this is not the same as the immunogen, which includes the epitope but is often much larger. This may help expose an epitope, or destroy it. Detection antibody. The primary antibody used in sandwich ELISA, which detects the immobilized antigen. This antibody can be directly conjugated or visualized following the application of a conjugated-secondary.
Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies. So antibodies are one of two classes of immunoglobulins. The ability of an antibody to communicate with the other components of the immune system is mediated via its Fc region (located at the base of the Y), which contains a conserved glycosylation site involved in these interactions.
secondary antibody response, a rapid production of antibodies in response to an antigen in an individual who was exposed previously to the same antigen. Also called booster response. 1  Facebook. 
The use of secondary antibodies requires more steps than using primary antibodies alone, but secondary antibodies can offer significant advantages such as increased sensitivity through the signal amplification, and greater flexibility in labeling and detection options. We have developed an extensive selection of high-quality conjugated and unconjugated secondary antibodies that can be used for the fluorescent, colorimetric, and chemiluminescent detection of primary antibodies in a wide range of applications, such as cell imaging, flow cytometry and western blotting.
Secondary [edit]. Secondary antibody is especially efficient in immunolabeling. In immunolabeling, primary antibody's Fab domain binds to an antigen and exposes its Fc domain to secondary antibody. Then, secondary antibody's Fab domain binds to the primary antibody's Fc domain. Since antibody's Fc domain is constant within the same animal class, only one type of secondary antibody is required to bind to many types of primary antibodies.
For grouping according to time of debut, see Regular and irregular antibodies. Primary and secondary antibodies are two groups of antibodies that are classified based on whether they bind to antigens or proteins directly or target another (primary) antibody that, in turn, is bound to an antigen or protein. Then, secondary antibody's Fab domain binds to the primary antibody's Fc domain. Since antibody's Fc domain is constant within the same animal class, only one type of secondary antibody is required to bind to many types of primary