Streptococcus pyogenes is not a bacteria that should be taken lightly. Many people carry the bacteria without incident, however it has the potential to cause both mild and severe diseases. Streptococcus pyogenes has claimed many lives, including that of Muppet's creator, Jim Henson. Streptococcus pyogenes is the most common bacterial cause of sore throat.[6] A painful, red throat with white patches on your tonsils is characteristic of pharyngitis, otherwise known as strep throat.
Characteristically, Streptococcus pyogenes is a Gram-positive facultative anaerobic bacterium. It is not motile, and does not produce spores. It occurs as long chains of cocci, and occasionally in pairs. Streptococcus pyogenes is classified as Group A streptococcus. Streptococcus pyogenes is the most common bacterial cause of sore throat.[6] A painful, red throat with white patches on your tonsils is characteristic of pharyngitis, otherwise known as strep throat.
strep·to·coc·ci. A term used to refer to any member of the genus Streptococcus. /Strep·to·coc·cus/ (-kok´us) a genus of gram-positive, facultatively anaerobic cocci occurring in pairs or chains; it is separable into the pyogenic group, the viridans group, the enterococcus group, and the lactic group. 
Streptococcus pyogenes is a species of bacteria. Like most other streptococci, it is clinically important in human illness. It is an infrequent, but usually pathogenic, part of the skin flora. It is the sole species of Lancefield group A and is often called group A streptococcus (GAS), because it displays streptococcal group A antigen on its cell wall. S. pyogenes is the cause of many important human diseases, ranging from mild superficial skin infections to life-threatening systemic diseases. Infections typically begin in the throat or skin. The most striking sign is a strawberry-like rash.
Description and Significance. Streptococcus pyogenes is a gram-positive bacterium that usually grows in pairs or chains. It has been classified as a beta-hemolytic streptococcus because when cultured on a blood agar plate all the red blood cells are ruptured by the bacteria (1). Streptococcus pyogenes, also known as the flesh eating bacteria, is the most pathogenic bacterium in the whole genus (2). The name pyogenes comes from the word pyogenic, which is a classification for the streptococci that are associated with pus formation. The effects of this microbe range from mild illnesses such as strep throat and impetigo to more serious diseases such as scarlet fever, glomerulonephritis, and necrotizing fasciitis (3
Streptococcus pyogenes: A common bacteria that causes strep throat (streptococcal pharyngitis), impetigo, other skin infections, rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, glomerulonephritis, and invasive fasciitis. 
Background. Infection with Streptococcus pyogenes, a beta-hemolytic bacterium that belongs to Lancefield serogroup A, also known as the group A streptococci (GAS), causes a wide variety of diseases in humans. In addition to infections of the upper respiratory tract and the skin, S pyogenes can cause a wide variety of invasive systemic infections. Along with Staphylococcus aureus, group A streptococcus is one of the most common pathogens responsible for cellulitis.
Streptococcus pyogenes is one of the gram-positive cocci in chains overlap. The cell walls of streptococcal cells has some interesting features. The high content of peptidoglycan (murein layer) of carbohydrate (C polysaccharide) gives the cells a very strong structure. The C-polysaccharide antigen is effective. Streptococcus pyogenes infection is one of the most common infectious diseases. They usually occur in children with a peak in the age group of 4 - to 7-year-old on. The number of acute streptococcal pharyngitis in Germany is estimated at 1 to 1.5 million per year.