Chorizo (Spanish) or chourico (Chouriço) portuguese is a term originating in The Iberian peninsula encompassing several types of pork. Sausages, traditionally chorizo is encased in natural casings made from, intestines a method used Since roman. times Chorizo can be eaten sliced in a sandwich, grilled, fried, or simmered in liquid, including apple cider or other strong alcoholic beverage such as aguardiente. It also can be used as a partial replacement for ground (minced) beef or pork.
Mexican Chorizo. 1  How it's made and sold: Mexican chorizo is a spicy ground meat sausage that is most commonly sold fresh and uncooked, either loose or in a casing, although dried versions do exist. 2  It is sold with other raw meats or sausages at the grocery store. 1 How it's made and sold: Spanish chorizo is a dried and cured sausage in a casing. 2  It can be usually found with other ready-to-eat cured meat products like salami. 3  These chorizos can be smoked or unsmoked, and may be sweet or spicy.
Cook. Chorizo is a chile-garlic flavored sausage much loved in Mexico and the American Southwest, but most of the commercially-available kinds are made with beef byproducts (such as salivary glands) that don't appeal to many folks. Here's a great recipe that uses ground pork, instead. 
Ingredients. Typically made with pork and occasionally with beef, Mexican chorizo is highly seasoned with garlic, chili powder, ancho chilies and a healthy dose of cider vinegar. It comes in either red or green versions depending on what type of chilies the cook uses. 
Chorizo is a name given to a variety of sausages, both fresh and cured, from Spain and Latin America. Chorizo is made from pork, is heavily seasoned, and has a characteristically red color. Although there are many regional varieties, most chorizo can usually be placed into one of two categories, Spanish or Mexican. Mexican chorizo is quite different from Spanish chorizo. The meat is usually ground, rather than chopped, and the sausage is fresh rather than cured. The red color of Mexican chorizo usually comes from spicy red pepper rather than smoked paprika, like in
Mexican chorizo must be cooked prior to eating and can be cooked either in its casing or removed from the casing and cooked like ground meat. Mexican chorizo is a popular grill item but is also used in place of ground beef in tacos, burritos, chili, burgers, or even egg dishes. Mexican chorizo is quite different from Spanish chorizo. The meat is usually ground, rather than chopped, and the sausage is fresh rather than cured. The red color of Mexican chorizo usually comes from spicy red pepper rather than smoked paprika, like in
1 Ingredients: While it is usually made of pork, Mexican chorizo is a highly seasoned fatty sausage and can be made out of other meats like beef. 2  Most versions are bright or dark red in color due to the seasonings, but there is also green chorizo, which gets its namesake color from chiles and cilantro. 1 How it's made and sold: Spanish chorizo is a dried and cured sausage in a casing. 2  It can be usually found with other ready-to-eat cured meat products like salami. 3  These chorizos can be smoked or unsmoked, and may be sweet or spicy.
Answer: Chorizo is a pork sausage that has many different varieties and is eaten all over Spain. Most chorizo that you would buy in stores has been cured, but “fresh” chorizo, which is softer is also available. Chorizo is made by chopping or grinding the pork and “marinating” it in spices. The casing of the chorizo is usually made from pork, if made at home. Chorizo may be sliced and eaten alone or with crusty French-style bread or can be fried. It is very common to use it as an ingredient in other dishes, such as stews and soups.
Best Answer: It depends on the chorizo. Most chorizo, like most sausages, is made with fat, glands,head meat, snout and other parts that are not usually eaten alone. But there are other chorizos made with better bits of meat like chorizo de lomo which is made with tenderloin. Mexican chorizo tends to have more hot pepper in it than Spanish chorizo, but both are tastey.
Chorizo (Spanish) or chourico (Chouriço) portuguese is a term originating in The Iberian peninsula encompassing several types of pork. Sausages, traditionally chorizo is encased in natural casings made from, intestines a method used Since roman. Times chorizo can be a fresh, sausage in which case it must be cooked before. eating Chorizo can be eaten sliced in a sandwich, grilled, fried, or simmered in liquid, including apple cider or other strong alcoholic beverage such as aguardiente. It also can be used as a partial replacement for ground (minced) beef or pork.