I lost mine at 3:45am today (thursday) and I've been feeling cramps but not the real pain, my doctor told me I was 1cm dilated, that was four days ago. Every pregnancy is unique, After the mucus plug labor can start in hours, days, weeks and in some cases even weeks. CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL THE NEW MOMS-2-B.
The mucus plug is usually clear, slightly pink or blood tinged in color. It can be stringy mucus or a sticky discharge. Some women might not notice the loss of their mucus plug since there is already an increase in vaginal discharge during pregnancy.
Many women never ever see their plug as it drops in the toilet in pieces or is not noticed. Loss of the mucous plug means that labor will most likely start within the next 2 to 3 weeks, sometimes sooner, but that is the norm. If you are less then 36 to 37 weeks you need to inform your Dr. or Midwife if you lose your plug, as this could be a sign of an early delivery.
On the other hand, if you've had a baby before, losing the mucus plug could be a sign that labour will start in earnest within hours. When the mucus plug dislodges from your cervix it's called the show, or a bloody show. The jelly-like plug is often blood-tinged or streaked with old, brownish blood when it comes away.
Throughout pregnancy, a mucus plug blocks the opening of the cervix to prevent bacteria from entering the uterus. Before labor, this mucus plug is expelled allowing the baby to pass through the cervix during labor and birth.
Varies: Losing your mucus plug is a sign that early labor is approaching...This, however, could be within hours to 1-2 weeks. It is still okay for a pregnant woman to go swimming if she lost her mucus plug, as long as her bag has not ruptured (broke her water).
The loss of the mucus plug, sometimes referred to as the bloody show, is a sign that labor may soon begin. The mucus that forms this plug is discharged as the cervix begins to dilate, or open wider, in preparation for labor. This can occur just prior to the start of labor or up to two weeks before labor will begin. When the mucus plug is expelled, it will appear jelly-like and clear, pink, or brown in color. It may contain up to two teaspoons of blood. Any more blood than this is abnormal, and a physician should be consulted.