Your intestines are made up of the small intestine and large intestine. After food is churned up in your stomach, a muscle at the end of your stomach squirts small amounts of food into the top of your small intestine. As food is squeezed along the small intestine, it is broken down into even smaller parts. The answer is after the picture... Your intestines are 6.5 metres long. That's nearly as long as a double decker bus! Measure and cut a piece of string that's
The average length of the small intestine in an adult human male is 6.9 m (22 ft 8 in), and 7.1 m (23 ft 4 in) in an adult female. It can vary greatly, from as short as 4.6 m (15 ft) to as long as 9.8 m (32 ft). The jejunum is the midsection of the small intestine, connecting the duodenum to the ileum. It is about 2.5 m long, and contains the plicae circulares, and villi that increase its surface area. Products of digestion (sugars, amino acids, and fatty acids) are absorbed into the bloodstream here.
The small intestine or small bowel is the part of the gastrointestinal tract between the stomach and the large intestine, and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place. The small intestine has three distinct regions – the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. It receives bile and pancreatic juice through the pancreatic duct, controlled by the sphincter of Oddi. The primary function of the small intestine is the absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. The jejunum is the midsection of the small intestine, connecting the duodenum to the ileum. It is about 2.5 m long, and contains the plicae circulares, and villi that increase its surface area. Products of digestion (sugars, amino acids, and fatty acids) are absorbed into the bloodstream here.
The intestines are the part of the digestive system between the stomach and the anus. They are all coiled up to fit inside your abdomen. 1  The small intestine is a tube about 6 metres long in an adult. 2  It is greyish-purple in colour and is about 35mm wide. The intestines are part of the digestive system of the body. They are sometimes called the guts or bowels. This system deals with all the food and drink that you take into your body. You can learn more about the digestive system in the topic 'Your waste disposal system ' .
The small intestine has a smaller circumference than the large intestine, but it's actually the longer of the two sections -- it has the surface area of a tennis court! You may wonder how all this fits into your body. 
The intestines are a long, continuous tube running from the stomach to the anus. Most absorption of nutrients and water happen in the intestines. The intestines include the small intestine, large intestine, and rectum. The small intestine (small bowel) is about 20 feet long and about an inch in diameter. Its job is to absorb most of the nutrients from what we eat and drink. Velvety tissue lines the small intestine, which is divided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum.
Intestinal cancer symptoms. The small intestine is a long, coiled tube that funnels digested food from the stomach into the colon (the large intestine). Along the way, the digested material is further broken down and nutrients and amino acids are absorbed
Your small intestine and digestion. The small intestine is a long tube that is approximately 18 feet long (6 meters). The small intestine is called small because the diameter or the width of the tube is much less than the large intestine. The parts of the small intestine include the duodenum, jejunum and the ileum. The ileum is preceded by the jejunum. This section of the small intestine is approximately 6 to 12 feet (3.5 meters) long. The ileum absorbs mainly vitamin B12, other water soluble vitamins, bile salts, and nutrients that were not absorbed in
Intestinal obstruction occurs when there is a blockage of your small or large intestine. The blockage prevents the passage of fluid or digested food. The blockage may be partial or total. There are many potential causes of intestinal obstruction. In many cases, this condition can’t be prevented. There are a variety of causes of intestinal obstruction: 1  strangulated hernia-part of your small intestine protrudes through your abdominal wall. 2  inflammatory disease like Crohn’s disease-swelling and scar tissue causes a narrowing of your intestine. 3  adhesions-scar tissue from a previous abdominal surgery.