Bee on plum tree with pollen. The term pollen source is often used in the context of beekeeping and refers to flowering plants as a source of pollen for bees or other insects. Bees collect pollen as a protein source to raise their brood. Dry pollen, is a food source for bees, which contains 16 - 30% protein, 1 - 10% fat, 1 - 7% starch, many vitamins, but little sugar.
You may not know this, but pine trees have both male and female pine cones. The male cones are usually smaller and often not even noticed, but the pollen that they produce is. So, if your car is yellow, blame a male. 
The color of pollen below indicates the color as it appears when the pollen arrives at the beehive. Bees mix dry pollen with nectar and/or honey to compact the pollen in the pollen basket. Dry pollen, is a food source for bees, which contains 16 - 30% protein, 1 - 10% fat, 1 - 7% starch, many vitamins, but little sugar.
Pollen in plants is used for transferring haploid male genetic material from the anther of a single flower to the stigma of another in cross-pollination. In a case of self-pollination, this process takes place from the anther of a flower to the stigma of the same flower. A pollen tube is produced, which grows into the nucellus to provide nutrients for the developing sperm cells. Sperm cells of Pinophyta and Gnetophyta are without flagella, and are carried by the pollen tube, while those of Cycadophyta and Ginkgophyta have many flagella.
Comments. Submit. Pollen, a substance that is required for the fertilization of plants, is most often pictured as a yellowish dust. This is partly because many coniferous tree pollens (and those that most often cause allergies in humans) are a shade of yellow. Pollen can actually be several different colors depending on the plant, including pure white. In some plants, white pollen is a mutation. Some types of petunias show this mutation, and maize (corn) sometimes does as well. The white pollen shows up in place of the normal yellow pollen.
Tree pollen is the first type of pollen released in the spring. In the south, tree pollen can be released as early as January. In the far northern states, it is not usually found in the air until June. Sticky Pollen. Fruit trees produce heavy, sticky pollen that is not light enough to easily become airborne. This pollen is formulated to stick to the bodies of insects so that when they gather nectar, they will fertilize the reproductive organs inside the flower.
Yellow Pollen. Yellow pollen is a highly visible tree pollen. It can easily be seen on trees, and often rises in a cloud when a tree is shaken. Yellow pollen is produced by evergreen trees, primarily pine trees, including spruce, true cedar trees, fir trees, larch and hemlock. Although yellow pollen looks like it could cause an allergic reaction, in reality it does not trigger allergy symptoms at all. It can stain the skin and clothing, however. Sticky Pollen. Fruit trees produce heavy, sticky pollen that is not light enough to easily become airborne. This pollen is formulated to stick to the bodies of insects so that when they gather nectar, they will fertilize the reproductive organs inside the flower.
If pollen lands on a compatible pistil or female cone, it germinates, producing a pollen tube that transfers the sperm to the ovule containing the female gametophyte. Individual pollen grains are small enough to require magnification to see detail. A pollen tube is produced, which grows into the nucellus to provide nutrients for the developing sperm cells. Sperm cells of Pinophyta and Gnetophyta are without flagella, and are carried by the pollen tube, while those of Cycadophyta and Ginkgophyta have many flagella.
Wallace described Monday's blast as pollen Armageddon.. North Carolina, which is filled with Longleaf and Loblolly pine, is a yellow pollen paradise. “Because of all of the pines we have, it’s one of the best places to see pollen put on a show,” Smith said. Smith said the hot, dry weather has made the pollen more noticeable than usual