A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. The cerebral hemisphere is one half of the cerebrum, the part of the brain that controls muscle functions and also controls speech, thought, emotions, reading, writing, and learning. 
Emotional lateralization is the asymmetrical representation of emotional control and processing in the brain. There is evidence for the lateralization of other brain functions as well. Emotions are complex and involve a variety of physical and cognitive responses, many of which are not well understood. The general purpose of emotions is to produce a specific response to a stimulus. 
Cerebrum: Much of your brain function takes place in the cerebral cortex, or outer layer of the cerebrum. It's the assembly line of human thought where all the heavy work gets done. Left hemisphere: Controls your concrete side: speech, writing, language, and calculation. The cerebrum is divided into the left and right cerebral hemispheres. The right hemisphere controls the muscles on the left side of the body. The left hemisphere controls the muscles on the righ
The cerebrum is a large part of the brain containing the cerebral cortex (of the two cerebral hemispheres), as well as several subcortical structures, including the hippocampus, basal ganglia, and olfactory bulb. In humans, the cerebrum is the superior-most region of the central nervous system. 
The researchers conclude that the brain is not as compartmentalized as previously thought, and that different parts of the brain overlap and can share responsibilities. While emotions may be controlled by the right side of the brain, the left side is not left out when it comes to processing emotions. Future studies can determine what other parts of the brain process emotions in books or television. The study was published in Neuropsychologia. While recognizing emotions was associated with atrophy of parts of the right side of the brain, recognizing musical, and not facial, expressions of music was associated with parts of the left side that were connected to language.
It controls reading, thinking, learning, speech, and emotions. The cerebrum is divided into the left and right cerebral hemispheres. The right hemisphere controls the muscles on the left side of the body. The left hemisphere controls the muscles on the right side of the body. Cerebellum: The cerebellum controls balance for walking and standing, and other complex ac
The right and left hemispheres of the brain are joined by a bundle of fibers called the corpus callosum that delivers messages from one side to the other. Each hemisphere controls the opposite side of the body. If a brain tumor is located on the right side of the brain, your left arm or leg may be weak or paralyzed. Not all functions of the hemispheres are shared. In general, the left hemisphere controls speech, comprehension, arithmetic, and writing. The brain is composed of three parts: the brainstem, cerebellum, and cerebrum. The cerebrum is divided into four lobes: frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital. 1  The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain and is composed of right and left hemispheres. It performs higher functions like interpreting touch, vision and hearing, as well as speech, reasoning, emotions, learning, and fine control of movement. The cerebellum is located under the cerebrum
Normally, Dr. Fedio says, the brain's two hemispheres work in tandem to judge emotions around us so we can make the right response. The right brain functions like radar, scanning for the blip on the screen — signs of negative emotion or danger — and alerts the left side. 
Cerebrum. The cerebrum (supratentorial or front of brain) is composed of the right and left hemispheres. Functions of the cerebrum include: initiation of movement, coordination of movement, temperature, touch, vision, hearing, judgment, reasoning, problem solving, emotions, and learning. Brainstem. The CNS consists of the brain and spinal cord. The brain is an important organ that controls thought, memory, emotion, touch, motor skills, vision, respirations, temperature, hunger, and every process that regulates our body.