The typical gestation period for mollies is 21-30 days or so. I'm not entirely sure, but I believe it would take about a week before you could tell if she is pregnant or not. so you probably have about 2 weeks before she gives birth. I'm just ball parking here though. In the morning today I noticed that my female dalmatian molly was swimming for awhile,then sitting at the bottom of my 30 gallon, and it went on like that.I then noticed that she had a lump on her belly.I do have a male dalmatian molly, so I realized that she was pregnant.
For breeding, the ratio should always be 1 male to 2-3 females, if you have only 1 female to 1 male, the male may chase her to death. The gestation period of all livebearers is approximately 28 days. Updated 5/22/14 GUPPIES; *Size: females 1.5 -2.25 inches (4-6 cm.) males 1- 1.5 inches (2 3 cm.) *Scientific Name: Poecilia reticulata Family-Live Bearer *Natural Habitat: Wild Guppies originate from Venezuela, Barbados, Brazil, Guyana, Netherlands Antilles, Trinidad, Tobago, and the Virgin Islands.
Their gestation period is about a month. With a standard Black Molly, the gravid spot near her vent is obscured. However, it becomes more distended as her delivery date nears. Anyway. Mollies give birth about once a month. There is no definitive way to tell exactly when she will give birth. My guess is that female has at 1-2 weeks to go. No way to tell the age of fish.
How Long Is A Platies Gestation Period???? in the Breeding Fish forums, part of the Freshwater Fish and Invertebrates category. How long is a platies gestation period???? I have a pregnant Platy and need to know how long it takes for their babies to develop.
They may pursue their young and the young of other fish. The pointed anal fin and much larger dorsal fin on the male, and the rounded anal fin and pregnancy spot on the female differentiate the two. The Balloon Molly is a livebearer that requires a spawning box in a 25 gallon, or larger breeding tank. 
There is considerable variation between species in the length of pregnancy. At least one group of fish has been named after its pregnancy characteristics. The surfperch, genus Embiotoca, is a saltwater fish with a gestation period of three to six months. This lengthy period of pregnancy gives the family its scientific name from the Greek embios meaning persistent and tokos meaning birth. Examples of ovoviviparous fish are many of the squaliform sharks, which include sand sharks, mackerel sharks, nurse sharks, requiem sharks, dog sharks and hammerheads, among others, and the lobe finned coelacanth.
Molly Fish-Mollies. The Molly is a tropical fish that prefers a little salt in their water. A teaspoon of aquarium salt per 5 gallons of water will go a long way in helping them. You may also see them in saltwater tanks from time to time. There is a local reef store here that keeps black molly fish in a regular saltwater tank with similar sized species.
Don't clean algae off back glass, as Mollies love to munch on it. Many plants and some salt in the water will do the fish well. They will be better off in brackish water, especially black mollies. A good salt ratio to use is 1 tablespoon aquarium salt to 5-10 gallons of water. The female will drop live fry in intervals of between 4-6 weeks after a 3-4 week gestation period, depending on temperature of the tank. Fry can be raised in the same tank with parents as long as no other species of fry eating fish are present. Sex: Sex can be determined by the male's modified anal fin (gonopodium).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Mollies are live bearing fish which means the babies come out swimming....also live bearing are guppies, sword tails, platy, and mosquito fish. The gestation period is 21-30 days usually around day 28, they will give birth. After the female has gave birth she is ready for conception in just a few hours. Keeping the water temperature around 82 degrees is best for reproduction. How long is gestation period for molly, how many babies, are they born as born fish or egg? We had company this weekend and one of the children tells us he is busy watching the baby fish.