Cassava is the third largest source of food carbohydrates in the tropics, after rice and maize. Cassava is a major staple food in the developing world, providing a basic diet for over half a billion people. It is one of the most drought-tolerant crops, capable of growing on marginal soils. Nigeria is the world's largest producer of cassava, while Thailand is the largest exporter of dried cassava
1 Place yucca in saucepan; until yucca is just covered, add salt and lime juice and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce heat, cover and simmer until tender--about 30 minutes. 3  Drain and keep warm. 4  Mash garlic cloves into salt with mortar and pestle (or use food processor). Directions. 1  Place yucca in saucepan; until yucca is just covered, add salt and lime juice and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce heat, cover and simmer until tender--about 30 minutes. 3  Drain and keep warm.
The difference between yuca and yucca is broader than a simple “C” lacking in the spelling. Yuca, or cassava, is a historically important global food source utilized for its carbohydrate rich (30% starch) nutrients, while its similarly named counterpart, yucca, is at least in modern times an ornamental plant. The fruit is the most desired part of the plant when utilizing the yucca plant as a food source. Edible yucca fruit only comes from the thick-leaf varieties of yucca. It is about 4 inches long and is usually roasted or baked engendering a sweet, molasses or fig-like flavor.
References to yucca root as food often stem from confusion with the similarly pronounced, but botanically unrelated, yuca, also called cassava or manioc (Manihot esculenta). Roots of soaptree yucca (Yucca elata) are high in saponins and are used as a shampoo in Native American rituals. 
Yucca root is a warm climate vegetable. Yucca root, also known as cassava, is a tubular-shaped root vegetable that bares a resemblance to sweet potatoes. Carbohydrates and Protein. As with potatoes, yucca root has a high amount of carbs and low amount of protein. Carbs are necessary for nervous system function and energy, which makes them necessary in large amounts. The recommended daily intake for adults is 130 grams of carbs a day.
Other names for cassava are yuca, manioc, mandioca, yucca root, casabe, and tapioca. Cassava is native to Brazil and the tropical areas of the Americas. It’s widely grown all over Latin America and the Caribbean. It was, and still is, an essential root vegetable in the Caribbean diet. 
Calories. Yucca is a poor diet choice because it is high in calories. Each cup of yucca contains 330 calories, 16.5 percent of the 2,000 suggested as a total daily intake for adults. Although you can eat high-calorie food when dieting, it limits the amount of food you can eat in a day. The root of this plant is starchy and is prized in some areas because it is a rich source of carbohydrates. Although yucca root can be a healthy food and may be a staple in some cultures, it's not an ideal diet food, as
Yucca, also known as cassava, is a root vegetable that is grown in South America and other regions with subtropical climates. The root of this plant is starchy and is prized in some areas because it is a rich source of carbohydrates. Although yucca root can be a healthy food and may be a staple in some cultures, it's not an ideal diet food, as it is high in calories. Yucca is a poor diet choice because it is high in calories. Each cup of yucca contains 330 calories, 16.5 percent of the 2,000 suggested as a total daily intake for adults. Although you can eat high-calorie food when dieting, it limits the amount of food you can eat in a day
Yucca Uses. Although growing yucca for food is less common than yuca, yucca has many other uses. More common yucca uses stem from the employment of the tough leaves as fiber sources for weaving, while the central stalk and sometimes the roots can be made into a strong soap. The fruit is the most desired part of the plant when utilizing the yucca plant as a food source. Edible yucca fruit only comes from the thick-leaf varieties of yucca. It is about 4 inches long and is usually roasted or baked engendering a sweet, molasses or fig-like flavor.