On March 26, 1964, as the Civil Rights Act was facing stiff opposition in Congress, Malcolm had a public meeting with Martin Luther King, Jr. at the Capitol building. Malcolm had attempted to begin a dialog with Dr. King as early as 1957, but King had rebuffed him. 
Alabama is credited for much of the movement, mostly due to news coverage of Gov. George Wallace, but took place in many other areas of the USA during the late 50's and early 60's. By the 80's, the race issue was headed toward extinction after the noble efforts by MLK, JFK and others were accepted. The civil rights movement involved a l … ot of courage from young and old. From six year old Ruby Bridges, who was the first African American to go to a Caucasian school, all the way to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who protested, gave speeches, and gained freedom for all.
The civil rights movement took place because civil rights were lacking in minorities, such as African Americans, Asians, Hispanics, etc. The civil rights movement involved a l … ot of courage from young and old. From six year old Ruby Bridges, who was the first African American to go to a Caucasian school, all the way to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who protested, gave speeches, and gained freedom for all.
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. The Civil Rights Movement that began in the late 1950's won for African-Americans basic rights long denied to them, inspired other discriminated groups to fight for their own rights, and had a deep effect on American society. On December 1, 1955, the modern civil rights movement began when Rosa Parks, an African-American woman, was arrested for refusing to move to the back of the bus in Montgomery, Alabama.
The modern civil rights movement began in the 1950s. In 1955, a black woman in Alabama named Rosa Parks refused to give her seat on a bus to a white man. For this act of protest, Parks was arrested. The blacks no longer wanted to sit at the back of the bus, and started a boycott of the bus system. The civil rights movement in the United States is about the campaign of African Americans. Because of their skin color, they did not have the same rights that white people did for a long time. This injustice on African Americans led to a time of social unrest
The Civil Rights Movement in the Early 1960s. The Civil Rights Movement did not take long to gain momentum at the turn of the decade. In 1960, four African American males attempted to place an order at a diner located inside the Woolworth shopping center in Greensboro, North Carolina. The Fracturing of the Movement. The successes of the Civil Rights Movement did not come without a violent response from white segregationists throughout the 1960s. In 1961 and 1962, 'Freedom Riders' were physically assaulted in states such as Mississippi and Alabama.
Confidence votes 15. The civil rights movement took place because civil rights were lacking in minorities, such as African Americans, Asians, Hispanics, etc. The civil rights movement involved a lot of courage from young and old. From six year old Ruby Bridges, who was the first African American to go to a Caucasian school, all the way to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who protested, gave speeches, and gained freedom for all. Alabama is credited for much of the movement, mostly due to news coverage of Gov. George Wallace, but took place in many other areas of the USA during the late 50's and early … 60's.
Staff photo Will Nunnally/Harvard News Office. Glenda Elizabeth Gilmore, the Peter V. and C. Vann Woodward Professor of History at Yale University, speaks on the other civil rights movement. M ost of us think of the Civil Rights movement as something that took place in the transitional 1950s and the tumultuous 1960s. It’s seen as a cultural artifact squeezed between the defiance of Rosa Parks (1955) and the demise of Martin Luther King Jr. (1968). 