The leaves of the caraway plant can be used as an herb, much like its relative, parsley. In addition, the root of the caraway plant can be eaten — it's similar to a parsnip. British seed cake is traditionally made with caraway seeds, as is the flavored Scandinavian spirit aquavit. Also Known As: 1  Meridian fennel. Caraway seeds are a spice made from the dried fruit of a plant known as Carum carvi. A member of the parsley family, caraway seeds are not technically seeds, but fruits.
Caraway seeds, which are actually fruits of the herb, are extensively used to add essence as well as season rye breads, biscuits, cakes-in this care they are excellent substitute for poppy seeds in old reserves like seed cake, cheese, pasta, omelettes, applesauce, salad dressings, rice as well as seafood. Caraway is considered to be a safe and effectual herb for alleviating colic, especially among young children. Crush an ounce of caraway seeds and allow it to settle in cold water for approximately six hours. If you wish, you may add sugar or honey to the mixture to sweeten it
Caraway-An Herb With Many Faces: Caraway is an herb that has been found in ancient foods, all the way to present times. The name comes from the Arabic word for the seed: karawya. Caraway has a sweet flavorful taste, making it a lovely addition to rich dishes. It is said to soothe indigestion and help with gas and cramping relief. We know about the culinary uses of caraway seeds, but may not be as familiar with the leaf and root's uses. The essential oil of the seed is often used in herbal mouthwashes and colognes, and many times it is added to a less flavorful herbal preparation for the flavor component it brings. Many children have accepted their medicine, when sweetened with a little caraway flavoring.
The seeds of Nigella sativa are used as a spice in Indian and Middle Eastern cuisines. The black seeds taste like a combination of onions, black pepper and oregano. They have a pungent bitter taste and smell. The dry-roasted nigella seeds flavor curries, vegetables and pulses. It can be used as a pepper in recipes with pod fruit, vegetables, salads and poultry. Nigella sativa grows to 20–30 cm (7.9–11.8 in) tall, with finely divided, linear (but not thread-like) leaves. The flowers are delicate, and usually coloured pale blue and white, with five to ten petals.
In English, Nigella sativa seed is variously called kalonji (from Hindi), fennel flower, nutmeg flower, black caraway, and Roman coriander. Other names used, sometimes misleadingly, are black cumin, black onion seed and black sesame. Nigella sativa grows to 20–30 cm (7.9–11.8 in) tall, with finely divided, linear (but not thread-like) leaves. The flowers are delicate, and usually coloured pale blue and white, with five to ten petals.
Caraway is also used in desserts, liquors, casseroles, Indian cuisine rice dishes such as pulao and biryani, and other foods. It is also found in European cuisine. For example, it is used in caraway seed cake, and it is frequently added to sauerkraut. The roots may be cooked as a vegetable like parsnips or carrots. Additionally, the leaves are sometimes consumed as herbs, either raw, dried, or cooked, similar to parsley. S-(+)-carvone is primarily responsible for caraway's distinct odor. Bread buns with caraway fruits and salt. The fruits, usually used whole, have a pungent, anise-like flavor and aroma that comes from essential oils, mostly carvone and limonene.
Caraway (botanical name, Carum carvi) is also known as meridian fennel. It is a biennially growing herb having an upright, grooved and branching stem that grows up to a height of 1.5 feet to 2 feet. The leaves of caraway are feathery and emerge from the stem in threes or opposite pairs. Caraway is considered to be a safe and effectual herb for alleviating colic, especially among young children. Crush an ounce of caraway seeds and allow it to settle in cold water for approximately six hours. If you wish, you may add sugar or honey to the mixture to sweeten it
Distilled Caraway water is considered a useful remedy in the flatulent colic of infants, and is an excellent vehicle for children's medicine. Caraway is used in treating earache and the powder of the seeds, made into a poultice, will also take away bruises. Seeds of caraway soothe the digestive tract, acting directly on the intestinal muscles to relieve colic and cramps as well as all types of bloating and flatulence. Range. Caraway grows wild in Europe, North Africa, and Asia and cultivated in Europe, Russia, North Africa, and the US, and the seeds are harvested ripe in late summer. It is also indigenous to all parts of Siberia, Turkey in Asia, Persia and India.
As mentioned earlier, apart from its therapeutic use, caraway is also used in culinary. For instance, you may add tender leaves of caraway to stews, soups and salads. You may also cook older caraway leaves like spinach, but be ready for a more potent and spicy flavor, akin to that of the caraway seeds. Caraway is considered to be a safe and effectual herb for alleviating colic, especially among young children. Crush an ounce of caraway seeds and allow it to settle in cold water for approximately six hours. If you wish, you may add sugar or honey to the mixture to sweeten it