In this scenario, with no mini, the car salesman salary would be $0 or next to it. Of course, not many people would be willing to sell cars for no money, so the dealership pays a mini to ensure the salesman earns something for their time and efforts. The most common I've seen, will up the car salesman salary percentage to 30% at ten sold units and go to 35% at thirteen to fifteen sold units for the month. This is usually retroactive and will pay the higher percentage all the way back to deal one
The program upends the traditional salesman setup, promising recruits ways to move up fast and pay that isn’t based on commissions. Salary is set at $30,000; bonuses are paid monthly and based on units sold. Sell seven cars in a month and you get $25 per car, or $175. The incentive is to push cars, not the price. Sell 20 in one month and your bonus goes to $175 per car, or $3,500.
A Salesperson / Salesman / Saleswoman earns an average salary of $41,520 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. 
Salesmen hawking new and used cars at dealerships fall into the Bureau of Labor Statistics' category of retail sales workers, because their jobs involve selling from a business directly to consumers -- that is, car owners and drivers -- rather than from a manufacturer to a distributor. New vs.Used. One factor in how much a car salesman made was whether he sold new or used cars. While the salary figures reported by Simply Hired were much higher than those reported by the BLS, the website's average salary listing for new car salesmen was nearly three times that of used car salesmen.
Income and Qualifications. Car sales consultants often have compensation packages that include salary, commissions and bonuses. For example, Ford Motor sales reps earned an average base salary of $37,000, according to Glassdoor -- with the rest of their $54,600 in earnings comprised of commissions and benefits. A draw against commission enables reps to earn weekly salaries when they don't sell cars. When reps exceed their quotas, they receive 100 percent in commissions. Whatever the case, the average annual income of car sales consultants was $79,000 as of 2013, according to the job website Simply Hired.
Tags: new car sales salary, auto sales salary, average salary auto sales, car salesman salary. I have talked to many former car salesmen and women during my time spent in the auto industry and one of the questions I always ask is why they left the car business. A Car Sales Salary and Car Sales Success. The funny thing about those former car sales people is that the income that they showed on their credit application to buy a car was not more than or even close to that of a good car salesman.
If they are paying you a salary for selling cars you are missing out on the real money. Secondly, the true car sales professional is paid a car salesman commission which is based on their sales and profitability. (Details of a Car Salesman Commission are Here). A Car Sales Salary and Car Sales Success. The funny thing about those former car sales people is that the income that they showed on their credit application to buy a car was not more than or even close to that of a good car salesman.
An example of a sliding scale percentage pay plan is as follows. Sell 6 cars get 20% commission, sell 9 cars get 25%, sell 12 car get 30%, sell 15 cars get 35% and sell 18 or more and get 40%. You can clearly see how this sliding scale auto sales commission pay plan rewards the top sellers in a dealership. The next step of figuring your car salesman commission or how car salesmen get paid is determined by your dealership. I have seen auto dealership sales commissions that pay anywhere from 20% up to 40% commission which is solely up to the dealership management and owners. For an example we will use 30% rate.
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Sales category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Sales jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K.
Guarantees. Some dealerships will offer a guaranteed car salesman salary to new car salesmen as an incentive to come on board.. This is becoming quite a bit more common. This guarantee is usually between $2,000 and $2,500 a month and is typically for the first 90 days. The most common I've seen, will up the car salesman salary percentage to 30% at ten sold units and go to 35% at thirteen to fifteen sold units for the month. This is usually retroactive and will pay the higher percentage all the way back to deal one