Origin and diffusion [edit]. The Roman family name Paulus derives from the Latin adjective meaning small or humble and is cognate to the modern English word few. During the Classical Age it was used to distinguish the minor of two people of the same family bearing the same name. Its prevalence in nations with a Christian heritage is primarily due to its attachment to Saint Paul the Apostle, whose Greek name was παῦλος, Paulos, paûlos a transliteration from The, latin also being appreciated the modest meaning of this. name
Click on a place to view Pal immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Pal families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can see how Pal families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13427 in baby name popularity for boys with 5 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Pal Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Pal has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Pal to other names.
Pal is alike in pronunciation to Pall, Peal, Peale, Peall, Peel and Pell. Other suggested similar baby names are Cal ▼ , Dal, Gal, Hal ▼ , Paley, Pali, Par, Pat ▼ , Paz, Phil ▼ , Sal, Tal and Val ▼ . These names tend to be more commonly used than Pal. Pal is a rare given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#12845 out of 150436, Top 9%). (2000 U.S. Census). Pablo (#396 the previous year) and Paul (#201) are the prominent varying forms of Pal (not in Top 1000) . Forms like Pauli are uncommon
A Pala dynasty that was founded by one Gopala in the 8th century ruled in Bengal and Bihar until the 12th century.Hungarian (Pal): pál from the personal Name, Pal pál hungarian Form. OF Paul bg this name is, also Found, spelled Pal (In) slovenia prekmurje and northern And. eastern croatia You can see how Pal families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate.
Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Pal in Hindu origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Many baby names sound really cute when your baby boy or baby girl is still a baby. However, when your baby grows to become a pilot, a sportsperson, a scientist or even the president of your country, it is an entirely different story. The noted tennis star of....
Pal /pal/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name. Pal's name origin is Latin, and the name Pal means small. Pal is a version of Paul (Latin). Compare surname Pall. Pal is a rare given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#12845 out of 150436, Top 9%). (2000 U.S. Census). Pablo (#396 the previous year) and Paul (#201) are the prominent varying forms of Pal (not in Top 1000) . Forms like Pauli are uncommon
Pal is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Pal. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13427 in baby name popularity for boys with 5 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Pal Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Pal has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Pal to other names.
Word History: The word pal comes from the Indic language of the Romani people. First recorded in English in the second half of the 1700s, pal was borrowed from a Romani word meaning brother, comrade, which occurs as phal in the Romani spoken in England and phral in the Romani spoken in continental Europe. References in classic literature? just as it makes a man happy to lend a hand to a pal in a ticklish place, or a lover happy to put his coat around the girl he loves to keep her warm.