The dermis is composed of connective tissue containing mainly of collagen fibers and also elastic and reticular fibers. Also, contains connective tissue cells, blood vessels, sweat and sebaceous glands, hair follicles, nail root, nerve endings, and muscular tissues. 
Types of connective tissue fibers (released by subunits secreted by fibroblasts). 1  Collagen fibers, the most common fibers in connective tissue proper, are long, straight, and unbranched. 2  Elastic fibers contain the protein elastin and are branched and wavy, returning to their original length after being stretched. 1 Dense connective tissue, or fibrous tissue, consists mainly of collagen fibers and found: 2  between the skeletal muscles and the tendons. 3  between bones and ligaments. 4  covering skeletal muscles and visceral organs.
The hard consistency of bone results mainly from calcium phosphate salts in the ground substance. Some of the cells of connective tissue are fibroblasts (which produce collagen fibers and are the only cell type in tendons and ligaments); adipocytes (fat cells); leukocytes (white blood cells, also found outside the. The most abundant fiber in connective tissues is a tough protein called collagen. Tendons, ligaments, and the white stringy tissue (fascia) seen in some cuts of meat are composed almost entirely of collagen, as is leather, which consists of the connective tissue layer (dermis) of animal skins.
Bone is the hardest connective tissue. It provides protection to internal organs and supports the body. Bone’s rigid extracellular matrix contains mostly collagen fibers embedded in a mineralized ground substance containing hydroxyapatite, a form of calcium phosphate. Supportive connective tissue —bone and cartilage—provide structure and strength to the body and protect soft tissues. A few distinct cell types and densely packed fibers in a matrix characterize these tissues. In bone, the matrix is rigid and described as calcified because of the deposited calcium salts.
In connective tissue proper, the intercellular substance is soft, in cartilage it is firm yet flexible, in bone it is rigid due to the deposition of calcium salts, in blood it is fluid. Connective tissue in the embryo has quite a different structure and consistency from that in the adult. There are three major types of fibers in connective tissue: collagen, reticular and elastic. 1  Collagen fibers are composed of bundles of fibrils that are linear arrays of type I collagen molecules arranged in a 1/4 stagger. 2  At the EM level the fibrils appear to have a 640A periodicity.
Ligaments are bundles of fibers containing elastic and collagen fibers that connect one bone to another. Connective tissue proper cell types. 1  Fibroblasts are the most abundant cells responsible for the production and maintenance of the connective tissue fibers and the ground substance. 1 Dense connective tissue, or fibrous tissue, consists mainly of collagen fibers and found: 2  between the skeletal muscles and the tendons. 3  between bones and ligaments. 4  covering skeletal muscles and visceral organs.
Bone. Bone. Like other connective tissues, bone consists of a matrix containing fibers (primarily collagen) and cells embedded in a ground substance. However, in bone the ground substance is in large part calcium salts; in fact, the major portion of the dry weight of bone may be composed of these inorganic salts. This makes the matrix of bone hard, so that it is an ideal tissue to serve as a rigid support for the body
The matrix of connective tissue typically consists of fibers and a featureless ground substance. The most abundant fiber in connective tissues is a tough protein called collagen. Tendons, ligaments, and the white stringy tissue (fascia) seen in some cuts of meat are composed almost entirely of collagen, as is leather, which consists of the connective tissue layer (dermis) of animal skins.
1 Bone – osteocytes in a matrix of calcium salts and collagen – bones – supports the body, protects internal organs from mechanical injury, stores excess calcium, and contains and protects red bone marrow. 1 Dense connective tissue, or fibrous tissue, consists mainly of collagen fibers and found: 2  between the skeletal muscles and the tendons. 3  between bones and ligaments. 4  covering skeletal muscles and visceral organs.