A woman who has spina bifida is also at higher risk of having a spina bifida child. It seems that only 5% of the cases involve direct hereditary effects, however. So a woman who has spina bifida has about a 1 – 5% chance of having a spina bifida child and that increases to 15% if both parents have spina bifida.
Changes in dozens of genes in individuals with spina bifida and in their mothers may influence the risk of developing this type of neural tube defect. The best-studied of these genes is MTHFR, which provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in processing the vitamin folate (also called vitamin B9).
The birth defect spina bifida (SPY-na BIFF-uh-duh) is a type of neural tube defect. A neural tube defect is a problem with the spinal cord, brain and/or their protective coverings caused by the fetus spine failing to close completely during the first month of pregnancy.
Spina bifida research scientists are looking at a possible genetic cause of spina bifida. The goal of this research is to find the genetic factors that make some children more susceptible to neural tube defects than others.
Summary. Spina bifida is a neural tube defect-a type of birth defect of the brain, spine, or spinal cord. It happens if the spinal column of the fetus doesn't close completely during the first month of pregnancy. This can damage the nerves and spinal cord. Screening tests during pregnancy can check for spina bifida.
Spina bifida is a neural tube defect-a type of birth defect of the brain, spine, or spinal cord. It happens if the spinal column of the fetus doesn't close completely during the first month of pregnancy. This can damage the nerves and spinal cord. Screening tests during pregnancy can check for spina bifida.
Spina bifida is the most common neural tube birth defect in the United States. At the present time the causes of spina bifida are unknown, though it is strongly believed that both genetics and the environment are contributing factors.
Prevalence. Spina bifida is the most common of the severe birth defects, occurring in one of every 1500-2000 live births. The most severe variant, myelomeningocele occurs in one of every 4000 live births. There is a definite genetic predisposition in that it is more common in families of Hispanic and European heritage.