Full-service restaurants use servers to both take and deliver orders and often have a bar, which pushes up build-out costs significantly. Type of Restaurant Fast Food (all self service) Fast Casual (some table service) Full service Avg. Build-out Cost per Square Foot $63 $158 $192 Avg.
Food Ccosts. Once you are up and running, your biggest costs will be for food and beverages. Depending on the restaurant concept, your food and beverage costs should run no more than 25 percent to 40 percent of revenues, with casual restaurants at the lower end of the scale. Payroll will take an additional 20 percent to 25 percent of revenue.
Once you estimate the total costs, then add to it the cost of architectural fees and consultant's fees plus a reserve of 15-20 percent for any contingencies. You will generally find that the total cost per square foot of your restaurant will run about $150-$200, excluding land costs. This means that if you plan on opening a restaurant with a square footage of 3,000, your total costs will be approximately $450,000-$600,000. Keep in mind that this is a general range only.
The facilities costs vary widely, depending on whether you are buying or leasing and, if buying, on whether you are buying an existing restaurant or building from the ground up. For an existing restaurant, you will need to spend money on renovation, but how much will depend on the condition of the premises.
In the kitchen you will also need counters with under counter refrigeration and heating units, shelving and all of your cooking and storage tools and equipment. This can cost anywhere from $100,000 to $500,000 or more, depending on the type of restaurant you have. You will also need to budget for all the plates, cutlery, glasses and other items for the service, as well as for breakages and equipment repairs and maintenance.
I'm looking at starting a small/medium size restaurant. The size should be compared to what an average Panda Express would be with similar Kitchen requirements for Cool Boxes and Freezer Equipment. Overall size of the business should be 1200 to 1500 sf.
The cost of renting a commercial kitchen usually runs $10 to $25 per hour as of 2013, although some commercial kitchens offer unlimited access packages for $600 to $800 per month. Although renting a commercial kitchen saves money, it does usually limit the space and time you have available for kitchen production.