Fort Jefferson Moat – Dry Tortugas. In late December 1824 and early January 1825, about five years after Spain sold Florida to the United States for $5 million, U.S. Navy Commodore David Porter inspected the Dry Tortugas islands. The Dry Tortugas are part of Monroe County, Florida, United States. The fort is located on Garden Key in the lower Florida Keys within the Dry Tortugas National Park, about 70 miles (110 km) west of the island of Key West.
Fort Jefferson is a massive but unfinished coastal fortress. It is the largest masonry structure in the Americas, and is composed of over 16 million bricks. The Dry Tortugas are part of Monroe County, Florida, United States. The fort is located on Garden Key in the lower Florida Keys within the Dry Tortugas National Park, about 70 miles (110 km) west of the island of Key West.
1 This came in 1780 when George Rogers Clark built Fort Jefferson (named for Thomas Jefferson, the governor of Virginia at the time) in western Kentucky to protect the Kentucky settlements and break the Chickasaw stranglehold on the Mississippi. 
History: Fort Jefferson (named for President Thomas Jefferson) began construction in 1846. The already existing lighthouse on the island remained with in the fort’s walls up until it was demolished in 1877. A massive design, the fort featured two sides that measured 325 ft. and two walls that measured 477 ft. 
Fort Jefferson is located on Garden Key in the Dry Tortugas, about 70 miles west of Key West. It was named in honor of our third president. Officer quarters are visible in this view from the center of the parade grounds. Fort Jefferson was the largest coastal fort built in the nineteenth century. Begun in 1846, construction continued for 30 years. The lower fort walls were made of a light colored brick produced by a southern company. 
Please try again later. Fort Jefferson was built on Garden Island in the Dry Tortugas. It was a Union Fort to protect the trade coming out of the Gulf of Mexico. The Fort is 70 miles West of Key West.  1 Civil War by Guns N' Roses (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 2  Travel & Events.
Fort Jefferson (1) (1846-1874) - Construction of this Third System fort began in 1846 supervised by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and continued for 30 years and was never completed. Named after President Thomas Jefferson. Located 70 miles west of Key West on Garden Key, Dry Tortugas Islands, Monroe County, Florida. Designed as the largest Third System brick and masonry fort in the U.S. Fort Jefferson was to be a three-tiered six-sided 420 heavy gun fort, with two sides measuring 325 feet, four sides measuring 477 feet and bastions at each corner. Some 16 millon bricks were used in its actual construction.
Named in honor of Thomas Jefferson, then Secretary of State, Fort Jefferson was one of a chain of defensive forts built to protect army supplies from American Indians, it served as a supply base throughout the campaigns of Gen. St. Clair and Gen. Anthony Wayne, and was abandoned in 1796. Find the stone memorial recalling that this small park was the site of Fort Jefferson from 1791 to 1796. A confederacy of American Indians defeated Gen. Arthur St. Clair’s army in a 1791 battle that became known as “St. Clair’s Defeat,” and the army retreated to Fort Jefferson. Average visit time: Allow 30 minutes.
the building of the fort. After the War of 1812 a group of forts from Maine to Texas was envisioned to provide defense for the United States of America. Fort Jefferson was built to protect the southern coastline of the United States and the lifeline of commerce to and from the Mississippi River. The fort was planned to be the greatest of these. Fort Jefferson itself is a six-sided building constructed of 16 million handmade red bricks. In 1825 a lighthouse was built on Garden Key to provide warning to sailors about the dangers of reefs and shoals surrounding the Dry Tortugas.