Occultism is the study of occult practices, including (but not limited to) magic, alchemy, extra-sensory perception, astrology, spiritualism, religion, and divination. Occult qualities are properties that have no known rational explanation; in the Middle Ages, for example, magnetism was considered an occult quality. Newton's contemporaries severely criticized his theory that gravity was effected through action at a distance, as occult.
Fecal occult blood (FOB) refers to blood in the feces that is not visibly apparent (unlike other types of blood in stool such as melena or hematochezia). 
1) Occult practice includes seeking God or truth beyond nature, reason, or the rational mind—that is, in the supernatural realm. 2) Occult practice is based on a belief that communion with God comes through subjective, supernatural experience outside biblical means (God's word or sacraments). 3) Occult practice involves seeking supernatural energy, spirits, power, presence, influence, action or enchantments. Occult practice has certain characteristics, one or more of which may be present in varying degrees: 1. Occult practice includes seeking God or truth beyond nature, reason and the rational mind—that is, directly in the supernatural realm apart from God's word and sacraments. 2. Occult practice is based on a belief that communion with God comes through subjective, supernatural experience
T he word “occult” is generally associated with secret knowledge and practices dealing with the supernatural or “psychic” phenomena, often for the purpose of obtaining personal power. Some occult practices rely on demons or “ spirits ” to achieve their goals. Occultism is rapidly increasing throughout the world. There are now thousands of publishers of occultic books and magazines (not to mention Web sites). Interest in the occult has been promoted by the New Age movement, the rise of neo-paganism, movies and even some heavy-metal rock bands. Please understand that the terms “occult” and “cult” refer to completely different things—although there can be crossover in some specific instances.
The occult world is more detailed than what many of us may think or what the movies portray. The word, occult, is derived from the Latin word, occultus, which means things that are mysterious, hidden, and very secretive. Angelic and demonic forces play a large part in the practices which make up a part of the occultic world
A. When doctors test for fecal occult blood they are testing for the presence of microscopic or invisible blood in the stool, or feces. Fecal occult blood can be a sign of a problem in your digestive system, such as a growth, or polyp, or cancer in the colon or rectum. If microscopic blood is detected, it is important for your doctor to determine the source of bleeding to properly diagnose and treat the problem. 
For other uses, see Occult (disambiguation) . The occult (from the Latin word occultus clandestine, hidden, secret) is knowledge of the hidden. In common English usage, occult refers to knowledge of the paranormal , as opposed to knowledge of the measurable , usually referred to as science. Occult qualities are properties that have no known rational explanation; in the Middle Ages, for example, magnetism was considered an occult quality. Newton's contemporaries severely criticized his theory that gravity was effected through action at a distance, as occult.
Answer: The dictionary defines occult as “hidden, secret and mysterious, particularly pertaining to the supernatural.” Examples of occult practices are astrology, witchcraft (Wicca), the black arts, fortune telling, magic (both black and white), Ouija boards, Tarot cards, spiritism, parapsychology, and Satanism. 