Glial cell: A supportive cell in the central nervous system. Unlike neurons, glial cells do not conduct electrical impulses. The glial cells surround neurons and provide support for and insulation between them. Glial cells are the most abundant cell types in the central nervous system. Types of glial cells include oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, ependymal cells, Schwann cells, microglia, and satellite cells. 
The brain consists of two major types of cells, neurons and glial cells. Glial cells are as numerous as neurons. While neurons have been studied for more than a century, extensive glial research has only developed over the last decades. 
Astrocytes. Astrocytes belong to the 3 types of glial cells in the CNS (the others are microglia and oligodendrocytes). Astroglia is used as a synonym. These cell exhibt usually a star-shaped mmorphology, with many processes extending from the soma. 
1 Astrocytes. 2  Astrocytes are found in the brain's capillaries and form the blood-brain barrier that restricts what substances can enter the brain. 3  Microglia. 4  Microglia are extremely small cells of the central nervous system that remove cellular waste and protect against microorganisms. 1 Astrocytes are found in the brain's capillaries and form the blood-brain barrier that restricts what substances can enter the brain. 2  Microglia. 3  Microglia are extremely small cells of the central nervous system that remove cellular waste and protect against microorganisms. 4  Oligodendrocytes.
The glial cells outnumber theneurones and the two cell types occupy a comparable amount of space in nervous tissue. The main glial cell types are, inthe central nervous system, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes and, in the peripheral nervous system, Schwann cells, entericglial cells and satellite cells. 
Cells of the Nervous System. The nervous system is made up of two types of cells: neurons and glia. Neurons Neurons are the fundamental cellular unit of the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS). 
1 There are two types of glial cells in the nervous system: the large-bodied macroglia and the smaller microglia. 2  There are two classes of macroglia in the central nervous system: astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. 
There are several types of glial cells present in the nervous system of humans: Oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells indirectly assist in the conduction of impulses as myelinated nerves can conduct impulses quicker than unmyelinated ones. 1 Astrocytes are found in the brain's capillaries and form the blood-brain barrier that restricts what substances can enter the brain. 2  Microglia. 3  Microglia are extremely small cells of the central nervous system that remove cellular waste and protect against microorganisms. 4  Oligodendrocytes.
In the central nervous system (CNS), glia suppress repair. Glial cells known as astrocytes enlarge and proliferate to form a scar and produce inhibitory molecules that inhibit regrowth of a damaged or severed axon. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), glial cells known as Schwann cells promote repair. In general, there are two types of astrocytes, protoplasmic and fibrous, similar in function but distinct in morphology and distribution. Protoplasmic astrocytes have short, thick, highly branched processes and are typically found in gray matter.
The nervous system is built from two broad categories of cells, neurones and glial cells. The glial cells outnumber the neurones and the two cell types occupy a comparable amount of space in nervous tissue. The main glial cell types are, in the central nervous system, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes and, in the peripheral nervous system, Schwann cells, enteric glial cells and satellite cells. Glia also maintain appropriate concentrations of ions and neurotransmitters in the neuronal environment. Increasing body of evidence indicates that glial cells are essential regulators of the formation, maintenance and function of synapses, the key functional unit of the nervous system.