- After 1975, the manufacturers introduced the electronic ignition module to replace the points and condenser, this item is more accurate at any RPM, and has a longer life, we have seen old vehicles with over 200,000 miles that still have their original ignition module.
The function of the Ignition system is to produce high voltage surge and to deliver it to the spark plugs at regular intervals and at the correct time with respect to the crank position. The required components of the system are: 1. Battery. 2. Ignition Coil. 3. Condenser. 4. Contact Breaker. 5.
In the electronic ignition system, the contact points and condenser are replaced with a magnetic pickup device in the distributor and electronic amplifying device using diodes and transistors respectively.
The principles were the same and it simplified the ignition system. The basic ignition system consists of the ignition coil, points, condenser, distributor and spark plugs. A ballast resistor may also be included in this system. When all of these parts are connected and working properly, we will get the spark the engine needs to run.
The ground side of the coil is connected to the breaker points. A cam in the center of the distributor pushes a lever connected to one of the points. Whenever the cam pushes the lever, it opens the points. This causes the coil to suddenly lose its ground, generating a high-voltage pulse.
to the coil. The points are opened by cams on the central shaft, and are closed again by a spring arm on the moving contact. With the points closed, LT current flows from the battery to the. in the coil, and then to earth through the points.
Ignition system. How the Ignition System Works The ignition system's main purpose is to provide the engine with the proper spark at the right time to allow the fuel/air mixture in the combustion chamber to ignite.
In ignition circuit, condenser connected across or parallel to points. Breaker points and condenser work together to form switching device. Breaker points and condenser combination used in both magneto and battery systems. Other type of switching device in small engine applications is electronic switch.