The key is to make your coop a safe place for the chickens to lay their eggs and sleep. 1  A rule of thumb is 4 square feet inside the coop per chicken (2 square feet per bantam) and 10 square feet of outdoor space (8 square feet per bantam). 2  The coop should have good air flow and a low roost for your chickens to sleep. 1 A rule of thumb is 4 square feet inside the coop per chicken (2 square feet per bantam) and 10 square feet of outdoor space (8 square feet per bantam). 2  The coop should have good air flow and a low roost for your chickens to sleep. 3  Good ventilation is crucial but ensure that there are no drafts.
Here's a beginner's guide to bringing up baby! (This is the fourth post in our Raising Chickens 101 series .). You can purchase chickens at several stages of development—it all depends on how long you’re willing to wait for eggs. 1  Day-old chicks are available from hatcheries. Hi there, I have had chickens now for many years for eggs, as well as meat. I must say that just 2 chickens for eggs is not much! Unless you do not eat a whole lot of eggs! Most people that I know do not feed their chicken well enough to get even one egg per chicken a day.
An indoor pet chicken, like almost any animal, can quickly integrate into your family. Because of this, it’s important to consider many factors before bringing in a hen, even if it’s a good cause such as a rescue. Below are some important things to consider before making the decision to keep a pet chicken indoors. 
The answer to the question: Can a Small Chicken be Raised Indoors? 1  Education. 
I've only raised young chicks indoors, but move them outside at about 6 weeks. I am thinking maybe bantams would be the way to go, but don't have any direct experience with them. Hopefully someone with a bit more insight will speak up. Edited by ruthless - 6/4/11 at 6:09am. Do a search on  house chickens and you will find that several people choose to keep a few in the house. I think Serama are nice for that because they don't mind confinement as some other breeds might.
You will need a coop for your chickens, just like for your laying hens. Coops for meat birds are often larger so that you can raise 50, 100, or more birds at a time. Many people raise meat birds just during the summer season, so they can often be more temporary shelters like hoop houses or tarps. You will need to make sure your birds have protection from rain and wind. 
Make sure you have the resources to raise chickens. Raising baby chickens is a rewarding experience, but it is not something you should jump into too quickly. Before you raise baby chickens, think long and hard about why you want to keep chickens and whether you have the time, money and space to provide for them. Plan to keep at least 3 to 6 birds. Chickens are very sociable creatures, so you should plan on keeping at least three to six birds for company. Having an extra one or two is also not a bad idea should any of your chickens fall victim to predators or disease.
Raising Baby Chickens-The First 60 Days. Related Tutorials: How-To #1: Hatching Eggs. Brooders. The chick's first home will be the brooder. For brooder designs and ideas see our chicken brooders section. The size of the brooder will depend on the number of chicks you have. Aim for at least 2.5 sq feet per chick, if possible, more is better. The bottom of the brooder should have a layer of clean litter (pine shavings or similar).
By Victoria Gazeley. Tags: raising chicks, how to raise baby chicks, chickens, chicken information, keep chickens, keeping chickens, chicken keeping, raising chickens, how to raise a chicken, having chicken, chicken 101, Victoria Gazeley. Our 15 little girls just had their first week birthday. 