Corporations Corporate Officers Law & Legal Definition. Corporate officers are the people with day-to-day responsibility for running the corporation, such as the chief executive, chief financial officer and treasurer.
Definition. The executives of a corporation charged with certain operational responsibilities. Typically appointed by the board of directors, the corporate officers usually include the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), President, and in some corporations the Chief Operating Officer.
The board of directors appoints corporate officers. The corporate officers usually consist of a president, one or more vice presidents, the secretary, and a treasurer. In larger enterprises, there may be hundreds of officers. Officers are responsible for the management and day-to-day operations of the corporation.
A corporate officer is a high-level management official of a corporation or an unincorporated business, hired by the board of directors of a corporation or the owner of a business, such as a president, vice president, secretary, financial officer or chief executive officer (CEO).
corporate officers. The executives of a corporation charged with certain operational responsibilities. Typically appointed by the board of directors, the corporate officers usually include the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) , Chief Financial Officer (CFO) , President, and in some corporations the Chief Operating Officer.
An officer is the agent of the corporation entrusted by it with the exercise of some portion of its corporate powers, and the transaction of the business for which it exists, and the performance of its corporate duties. It is these agents or officers which it is empowered to superannuate, and not mere employees.
officer. n. 1) a high-level management official of a corporation, or an unincorporated business, hired by the board of directors of a corporation or the owner of a business, such as a president, vice president, secretary, financial officer, or chief executive officer (CEO).