Haggen Food & Pharmacy is the largest independent grocery retailer in the Pacific Northwest. As of June 2015, Haggen operated 164 stores throughout Washington, Oregon, southern California, Nevada and Arizona. From 1982 through 2014, Haggen also operated Top Food & Drug. 
Seattle Times business reporter. Haggen said Friday it will close or sell 27 stores in California, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon and Washington, the latest and biggest sign of its struggle to fit into a vastly larger footprint. 
|. Haggen, a Bellingham, Wash.-based grocer that entered Southern California earlier this year and has struggled in the face of stiff competition, announced Friday that it plans to sell or close stores throughout California, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon and Washington, including two in Simi Valley and one in Santa Clarita. California´s grocery industry is one of the most competitive in the nation and newcomer Haggen Inc., which opened 83 California supermarkets including this one in Torrance earlier this year, has already announced store closures. Chuck Bennett/Staff Photographer.
The Haggen grocery chain that took over numerous Albertsons and Vons stores earlier this year but quickly ran into financial troubles that led to a bankruptcy filing announced it will close all of its stores in California, including 25 in San Diego County. By acquiring stores that were divested by Albertsons and Safeway, the owner of Vons, Haggen expanded from 18 stores with 16 pharmacies and about 2,000 employees in the Pacific Northwest to 164 stores and 106 pharmacies employing more than 10,000 people in Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada and Arizona.
That would affect 127 stores, with 83 in California, mostly in the south. Haggen plans to keep 37 stores in Washington and Oregon, which is its home base. Haggen has been struggling since paying what analysts estimated was more than $1.4 billion for 146 Albertsons, Vons, Pavilions and Safeway grocery stores.
BELLINGHAM, Wash. (CBSLA.com) — Haggen stores, which expanded rapidly into California and neighboring states less than a year ago, announced Thursday that it would close stores as part of plan to focus on its core operations on the Pacific Northwest. The company said as part of its plan to “right-size,” it would close stores in California, Arizona and Nevada as part of a bankruptcy process announced Sept. 9. Haggen said employees would receive 60 days of notice of pending closings of stores and offices in the Pacific Southwest.
Bellingham-based grocery store chain Haggen is embarking on a major expansion. Washington-based Haggen Food & Pharmacy is buying 83 grocery stores in California, including dozens in Southern California, as part of a plan to buy 146 Albertsons and Safeway stores in Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada and Arizona. Financial terms of the deal weren't disclosed. Enlarge.
Haggen to close stores in Simi Valley, Santa Clarita. California´s grocery industry is one of the most competitive in the nation and newcomer Haggen Inc., which opened 83 California supermarkets including this one in Torrance earlier this year, has already announced store closures. Chuck Bennett/Staff Photographer.
The Bellingham, Wash., company said Thursday that it is closing all its stores in the state as part of a larger exit of its Pacific Southwest holdings,... Haggen Inc. is leaving California after a dramatic expansion gone wrong forced the grocery chain to file for bankruptcy protection this month. The Bellingham, Wash., company said Thursday that it is closing all its stores in the state as part of a larger exit of its Pacific Southwest holdings, including in Arizona and Nevada. That would affect at least 100 outlets, with 67 in California. That follows the closure of 27 stores announced last month, including 16 in the Golden State. Haggen plans to keep 37 stores in Washington and Oregon, which is its home base