Fly from Cancun to Lima, Peru. Typical airfare prices on the Cancun (CUN) to Lima (LIM) flight route vary greatly depending on the season you are looking to book in. 1  We work with over 1000 airlines to make sure you get the best price on air tickets. 2  We specialize in bringing you the cheapest flights to and from Lima
The airport is about 11 km from central Lima, and 17 km from San Isidro/Miraflores. The fare to hotels in San Isidro/Miraflores is about $25, and the ride should take about 30 to 40 minutes. Fares to other districts vary. You'll pay the receptionist at the counter and get a receipt before getting a taxi. Arriving. Lima's Jorge Chavez Chávez International airport was completely remodeled in the-mid. 2000s the facelift included a-four star hotel and shopping, center and there are plans to complete a second runway by. 2014
Overview. Jorge Chavez International Airport is the main domestic and international airport in Peru. It is 11 kilometres from the Historic Centre of Lima and 17 kilometres from Miraflores, the upscale shopping and tourist district. 
The calculation of flight time is based on the straight line flight distance from Lima, Peru to Cancun, Mexico (as the crow flies), which is about 2,378 miles or 3 827 kilometers. Your trip begins in Lima, Peru. It ends in Cancun, Mexico. Flying time from Lima, Peru to Cancun, Mexico. The total flight duration from Lima, Peru to Cancun, Mexico is 5 hours, 15 minutes. This assumes an average flight speed for a commercial airliner of 500 mph, which is equivalent to 805 km/h or 434 knots. It also adds an extra 30 minutes for take-off and landing
Yes, I would definately recommend Hotel Amara to all my friends, family and anyone visting Callo Peru.. More hotels near LIM-Jorge Chavez International Airport. We've negotiated with thousands of hotels to get the very best deals. We call them Secret Deals and they only last for a limited time. You can get these deals for free by subscribing to our newsletters. 
Map your way to the JW Marriott Hotel Lima. We're located 20 miles from the Jorge Chavez International Airport in Lima, Peru's Miraflores neighborhood. -12.131926 -77.029251. 1  Our Hotel. 
Washu. 419 4 9. add a comment |. up vote 3 down vote. A fare price for a taxicab from Lima airport to Miraflores would be S/. 55 soles and no more, the ride is about 45 minutes and it depends on the time and traffic, in the rush hour the traffic is terrible. 
Book your LAX to LIM flights with Expedia and find last-minute Los Angeles to Lima airfare. Expedia offers discount airfare on multiple airline carriers that fly direct and indirect routes between LAX and LIM, with new flight deals and promotions almost daily. 