According to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, an anaphylactic reaction can be a single occurrence with symptoms that resolve within minutes, with or without treatment. Alternately, it can be a single but long-lasting reaction that can continue for hours or even days.
A patient with a history of anaphylaxis should be instructed on how to initiate treatment for future episodes using pre-loaded epinephrine syringes. Two strengths are available: 0.3 mL of 1:1,000 epinephrine for adults, and 0.3 mL of 1:2,000 for children.
Disposition of patients with anaphylaxis depends on the severity of the initial reaction and the response to treatment. Patients with non–life-threatening symptoms may be observed for 4-6 hours after successful treatment and then discharged.
However, the injection is merely part of the treatment that you may require. All patients who have undergone anaphylaxis need to be examined and monitored. This is because anaphylaxis is not always a single reaction. The symptoms can rebound, returning hours or even days after the autoinjector of epinephrine has been administered.
All patients with anaphylaxis should be monitored for the possibility of recurrent symptoms after initial resolution. 5, 6 An observation period of two to six hours after mild episodes, and 24 hours after more severe episodes, seems prudent. Laboratory testing may help if the diagnosis of anaphylaxis is uncertain.
Anaphylaxis is an extreme form of allergic reaction. It can cause swelling of the lips and tongue, breathing problems, collapse and loss of consciousness. Anaphylaxis can cause death and is therefore a medical emergency. If you suspect someone is suffering anaphylaxis, you should call 999/112/911 for an ambulance.
5, 8 One to 20 percent of patients with anaphylaxis experience biphasic reactions, which usually occur within eight hours of the initial reaction, but may occur as late as 24 to 72 hours after exposure.
Up to 20 percent of people with anaphylaxis have biphasic (two-phase) anaphylaxis, in which symptoms resolve and then recur without further exposure to the trigger. This can occur up to eight hours after the initial symptoms, sometimes longer.
A second anaphylactic reaction, known as a biphasic reaction, can occur as long as 12 hours after the initial reaction. Call 911 and get to the nearest emergency facility at the first sign of anaphylaxis, even if you have already administered epinephrine, the drug used to treat severe allergic reactions.