Pranayama is an in-depth science for expanding and channeling the life force, prana. Pranayama comes from two Sanskrit words: prana, meaning the fundamental life force, and yama meaning to control. Pranayama is, therefore channeling or controlling the life force. Pranayama can also be seen as the combination of pran, the life force, with ayama, meaning expansion. In this sense pranayama expands the life force though all levels of our being, physical, psychological and spiritual. The key to understanding prana is the breath
One of the Five Principles of Yoga is Pranayama or Breathing Exercise which promotes proper breathing. In a Yogic point of view, proper breathing is to bring more oxygen to the blood and to the brain, and to control Prana or the vital life energy. Pranayama Yoga also goes hand in hand with the Asanas. One of the Five Principles of Yoga is Pranayama or the science of breath control. This is an overview of what Pranayama is and the Breathing Exercises practiced in Yoga.
Ashtanga yogis learn Ujjayi pranayama, sometimes called Conqueror’s Breath or Ocean Breath, to help increase the flow of prana in the body. Ujjayi can be very helpful for beginners, because the audible nature of the breathing is an excellent indicator of how the practice is going. 
Pranayama is a traditional aspect of yoga and is composed of two Sanskrit words: The first, prana, meaning life force, and the second, ayama, meaning control. For he, whose mind is in control, also controls the breath. The mind masters the senses, and the breath masters the mind.”. HATHA YOGA PRADIPIKA. With pranayama you achieve a higher energy level in your everyday life, and you are granted the opportunity to reach a greater sense of self-insight and self-control.
Breath is a physical aspect or external manifestation of prana, the vital force, and thus pranayama begins with the regulation of the breath. Breath, like electricity, is gross prana, while prana itself is subtle. When the breath is expired, it is rechaka, the first kind of pranayama. When the breath is drawn in, it is the second, termed pooraka. When the breath is suspended, it is the third kind, called kumbhaka, or retention of breath. Kumbhaka increases the life-span of an individual.
Pranayam (also spelled Pranayama) is an ancient practice concerned with breath control. Research has shown that practicing Pranayama can relieve symptoms of asthma. It is also beneficial in treating stress related disorders, such as anxiety and depression. 
Pranayama is the perfect control of the life-currents through control of breath, and is the process by which we understand the secret of prana and manipulate it. When the breath is expired, it is rechaka, the first kind of pranayama. When the breath is drawn in, it is the second, termed pooraka. When the breath is suspended, it is the third kind, called kumbhaka, or retention of breath. Kumbhaka increases the life-span of an individual.
Pranayama is control of Breath. Prana is Breath or vital energy in the body. On subtle levels prana represents the pranic energy responsible for life or life force, and ayama means control. So Pranayama is Control of Breath. One can control the rhythms of pranic energy with pranayama and achieve healthy body and mind
Stages of Pranayama Yoga. Pranayama yoga is also called breathing yoga because it is based on the principle of controlling the breath. The name Pranayama yoga, according to linguistic sources, comes from the words prana (life force) and yama (control)
The word pranayama can be translated in sev­eral ways. Originally prana refers to “the energy of life”, but also covers concepts like the breath, wind, life, vitality, energy and strength. Ayama can be translated as regulation, expansion or dimension. Pranayama is often directly translated as “breath control”. For he, whose mind is in control, also controls the breath. The mind masters the senses, and the breath masters the mind.”. HATHA YOGA PRADIPIKA. With pranayama you achieve a higher energy level in your everyday life, and you are granted the opportunity to reach a greater sense of self-insight and self-control.