Train. The airport train station is located below the terminal (basement level-1). Up to 6 trains an hour connect the airport to Brussels North, Brussels Central and Brussels Midi stations. Bus The bus station is located on level 0 - one floor down from the arrivals hall-and can be easily reached by using the escalators or elevators. Car / Motorcycle On the Brussels ring-road follow the Brussels Airport signage. Allow plenty of time to arrive at the airport during peak hours. Rental car The rental car park entrance is located left of the access road to the airport. Follow the dedicated signage.
If you wish to hire a private chauffeured vehicle, please contact Directway. Limousine services for individuals and groups Train The airport train station is located below the terminal (basement level-1). Up to 6 trains an hour connect the airport to Brussels North, Brussels Central and Brussels Midi stations. Bus The bus station is located on level 0 - one floor down from the arrivals hall-and can be easily reached by using the escalators or elevators. Car / Motorcycle On the Brussels ring-road follow the Brussels Airport signage. Allow plenty of time to arrive at the airport during peak hours. Rental car The rental car park entrance is located left of the access road to the airport. Follow the dedicated signage.
Airside safety tv Play all. Brussels Airport wants to make sure that aircraft, passengers and staff can all use the airport safely, and that a clearly-defined level of safety is guaranteed. The Safety Management System will constantly evaluate and improve safety levels at the airport. All airport personnel will receive safety training, and will be encouraged to make safety considerations a priority within the company.
Brussels South Charleroi Airport (IATA code CRL) is located 60km south of the central train station. Several budget airlines, including Ryanair and Wizzair operate service from this airport to cities such as Barcelona, Belgrade, Budapest, Dublin, Edinburgh, Manchester, Rome, Sofia, Vilnius and Warsaw. To travel between the airport and the city: 1  Belgian Rail operates trains (2nd class: Single: €8,50; Weekend return: €14,60; 1st class: €10.30) every 15 min from the airport (Level -1) to Brussels' three main stations, with most trains continuing to other parts of Belgium.
1 For the return trip to Charleroi you can book in advance a Charleroi-based taxi (€90). 2  Taxis operating from Brussels use a higher fare and will take you to the airport for a fixed price of €120 or based on the meter up to €170. To travel between the airport and the city: 1  Belgian Rail operates trains (2nd class: Single: €8,50; Weekend return: €14,60; 1st class: €10.30) every 15 min from the airport (Level -1) to Brussels' three main stations, with most trains continuing to other parts of Belgium.
You can obtain your tickets at the ticket offices or ticket machines at Charleroi airport or you can buy them directly from the driver. You can also book online to make the most of prices from 5€ for the Charleroi-Brussels or Brussels-Charleroi shuttle. The Charleroi to Brussels shuttle from just 5€. So that you don't have to take your car and battle with parking problems, Flibco shuttle buses run shuttle buses on the Charleroi-Brussels and Brussels-Charleroi routes every 20 to 30 minutes.
Brussels Airlines. Brussels Airlines is the national airline of Belgium. From its hub in Brussels, the airline offers over 250 daily flights with connections to more than 65 destinations throughout Europe and Africa. Star Alliance awards enable you to use your MileagePlus miles for award travel to more than 1,000 destinations worldwide, on any Star Alliance airline. 1  See our award chart to find out how many miles you'll need, depending on class of service and region of travel. 2  You can use miles to fly one-way or roundtrip.
At about 60kms from Brussels, Charleroi airport is the number one choice for residents of the European capital wanting to take a flight. Nearly one hundred destinations are on offer to its thousands of daily visitors, who can also take advantage of many low cost flights departing from this airport. The Charleroi to Brussels shuttle from just 5€. So that you don't have to take your car and battle with parking problems, Flibco shuttle buses run shuttle buses on the Charleroi-Brussels and Brussels-Charleroi routes every 20 to 30 minutes.
1 With your Thalys ticket you can also take a local train to or from Central-Centraal, Nord-Noord, Schuman and Luxembourg/Luxemburg stations. 2  edit. 3  Fyra, [2]. 4  A Fyra from Amsterdam (2h01, via Schiphol Airport, Rotterdam, Antwerp), connects to Brussels Midi/Zuid. To travel between the airport and the city: 1  Belgian Rail operates trains (2nd class: Single: €8,50; Weekend return: €14,60; 1st class: €10.30) every 15 min from the airport (Level -1) to Brussels' three main stations, with most trains continuing to other parts of Belgium.