2. medulla-lower or hindmost part of the brain; continuous with spinal cord; (`bulb' is an old term for medulla oblongata); the medulla oblongata is the most vital part of the brain because it contains centers controlling breathing and heart functioning.medulla oblongata, bulb.
Definition of MEDULLA OBLONGATA for Kids. : the part of the brain that joins the spinal cord and is concerned especially with control of involuntary activities (as breathing and beating of the heart) necessary for life. the part of the vertebrate brain that is continuous posteriorly with the spinal cord and that contains the centers controlling involuntary vital functions — see brain illustration.
The main function of the thalamus is to process information to and from the spinal cord and the cerebellum. The medulla oblongata helps regulate breathing, heart and blood vessel function, digestion, sneezing, and swallowing. This part of the brain is a center for respiration and circulation. Sensory and motor neurons (nerve cells) from the forebrain and midbrain travel through the medulla.edulla oblongata. The medulla oblongata is located in the brain stem, anterior to (in front of) the cerebellum. This is a cone-shaped, neuronal (nerve cell) mass in the hindbrain, which controls a number of autonomic (involuntary) functions.
The medulla oblongata is a cone-shaped neuronal mass responsible for multiple autonomic (involuntary) functions ranging from vomiting to sneezing. The medulla contains the cardiac, respiratory, vomiting and vasomotor centers and therefore deals with the autonomic functions of breathing, heart rate and blood pressure. an upper open part or superior part where the dorsal surface of the medulla is formed by the fourth ventricle. 2  a lower closed part or inferior part where the fourth ventricle has narrowed at the obex in the caudal medulla, and surrounds part of the central canal.
medulla oblongata-lower or hindmost part of the brain; continuous with spinal cord; (`bulb' is an old term for medulla oblongata); the medulla oblongata is the most vital part of the brain because it contains centers controlling breathing and heart functioning.rain stem, brainstem, brain-stem-the part of the brain continuous with the spinal cord and comprising the medulla oblongata and pons and midbrain and parts of the hypothalamus.
: the part of the vertebrate brain that is continuous posteriorly with the spinal cord and that contains the centers controlling involuntary vital functions — see brain illustration. See medulla oblongata defined for kids.ADVERTISEMENT.
Holonyms (medulla oblongata is a part of...): brain stem; brain-stem; brainstem (the part of the brain continuous with the spinal cord and comprising the medulla oblongata and pons and midbrain and parts of the hypothalamus).. lower or hindmost part of the brain; continuous with spinal cord; ('bulb' is an old term for medulla oblongata). Familiarity information: MEDULLA OBLONGATA used as a noun is very rare.
The bulb is an archaic term for the medulla oblongata and in modern clinical usage the word bulbar (as in bulbar palsy) is retained for terms that relate to the medulla oblongata, particularly in reference to medical conditions. an upper open part or superior part where the dorsal surface of the medulla is formed by the fourth ventricle. 2  a lower closed part or inferior part where the fourth ventricle has narrowed at the obex in the caudal medulla, and surrounds part of the central canal.
1. medulla oblongata-lower or hindmost part of the brain; continuous with spinal cord; (`bulb' is an old term for medulla oblongata); the medulla oblongata is the most vital part of the brain because it contains centers controlling breathing and heart functioning. medulla, bulb.neural structure-a structure that is part of the nervous system. brain stem, brainstem, brain-stem-the part of the brain continuous with the spinal cord and comprising the medulla oblongata and pons and midbrain and parts of the hypothalamus.
This structure at the base of the brain (top of the spinal cord) is the principal point of entry of life force (prana) into the body. It is the seat of the sixth cerebrospinal center, whose function is to receive and direct the incoming flow of cosmic energy.