An ectopic rhythm is an irregular heart rhythm due to a premature heartbeat. Ectopic rhythm is also known as premature atrial contraction, premature ventricular contraction, and extrasystole. When your heart experiences an early beat, it is usually followed by a brief pause. If ectopic heartbeat is accompanied by chest pain and pressure, sustained rapid heart rate, or other symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. Diagnostic testing to determine the cause may include: 1  echocardiogram: sound waves are used to create a moving picture of the heart.
An Ectopic Beat or Cardiac ectopy is an irregular beat arising in the heart due to variations in the electrical conductance system of the heart. Ectopic beats are generally harmless and may occur without any particular cause. The causes of Ventricular Ectopic beats are not clearly defined as they may be triggered by a stimulant or may occur randomly. Symptoms are usually the feeling of a strong, skipped beat, shortness of breath or a feeling of fullness in the neck. Ventricular Ectopic beats are seen in an ECG.
Ectopic beat (or cardiac ectopy) is a disturbance of the cardiac rhythm frequently related to the electrical conduction system of the heart, in which beats arise from fibers or group of fibers outside the region in the heart muscle ordinarily responsible for impulse formation (i.e. , the sinoatrial node). It is a form of cardiac arrhythmia in which ectopic foci within either ventricular or atrial myocardium, or from finer branches of the electric transduction system, cause additional beats of the heart.
1 Ectopic beats are early beats that are the most common disturbance of heart rhythm. 2  They may be present without any symptoms, or as palpitations described as missed or extra beats, or occasionally cause dizziness. 
A ventricular premature beat is an extra heartbeat caused by an abnormal electrical impulse starting in the lower chambers of the heart (the ventricles) before a normal heartbeat would occur. It is also known as a ventricular ectopic beat or a premature ventricular contraction. This is a form of arrhythmia that is similar to an atrial ectopic heartbeat. But where that affects the upper chambers of the heart (the atria), this affects the ventricles (or lower chambers of the heart). 
Ventricular Ectopic Beats are also called premature ventricular contraction as they may occur just before the normal beat of the ventricle. Ventricular Ectopic beats also are common in people and they do not pose a risk unless there is a history of heart disease. The causes of Ventricular Ectopic beats are not clearly defined as they may be triggered by a stimulant or may occur randomly. Symptoms are usually the feeling of a strong, skipped beat, shortness of breath or a feeling of fullness in the neck. Ventricular Ectopic beats are seen in an ECG.
Atrial Ectopic beats are usually a harmless variation in the normal beat pattern of the heart. It may occur randomly or in an occasional sequence. Mostly, it passes off undetected. Typical symptoms are the feeling that your heart skipped a beat, or that the heart is beating harder than usual. The causes of Ventricular Ectopic beats are not clearly defined as they may be triggered by a stimulant or may occur randomly. Symptoms are usually the feeling of a strong, skipped beat, shortness of breath or a feeling of fullness in the neck. Ventricular Ectopic beats are seen in an ECG.
Definition. Ectopic heartbeats are small changes in a heartbeat that is otherwise normal. These changes lead to extra or skipped heartbeats. Often there is not a clear cause for these changes. They are mostly harmless. 
Print. An atrial ectopic beat is a problem in the electrical system of the heart. It is an extra heartbeat caused by a signal to the upper chambers of the heart (the atria) from an abnormal electrical focus. It is also called an atrial premature beat or a premature atrial contraction. These premature heartbeats are associated with lung diseases, especially if high blood pressure is present in the arteries that go between the heart and lungs. Stimulants (such as coffee and tea, alcohol or some types of cold, allergy or asthma remedies) will sometimes set off the extra beat.
Definition. Ectopic heartbeats are small changes in a heartbeat that is otherwise normal. These changes lead to extra or skipped heartbeats. Often there is not a clear cause for these changes. They are mostly harmless. Most ectopic heartbeats do not need to be treated. The condition is only treated if your symptoms are severe or if the extra beats occur very often. The cause of the heartbeats, if it can be found, may also