Hydex 4101 is a PBT Polyester with an outstanding set of properties that include; wear resistance, chemical resistance and toughness. Hydex 4101L (Lubricated) is an enhanced version with improved wear, PV range and lubricity over Hydex 4101. Improved Wear and Chemical Resistance Versus Acetal. 1  Hydex 4101 and 4101L are compatible with chemicals having a pH range of 2.0 - 9.0, Acetal's range is 4.0 to 9.0. 2  Hydex 4101 and 4101L can with stand repeated CIP chemical washdown without affecting material performance.
NYTEF PLASTICS, Ltd. makes no warranties expressed or implied, with respect to the use of such information or the use of the specific material identified herein in combination with any other material or process, and assumes no responsibility therefore. UNILATE is a registered trademark of NYTEF PLASTICS, Ltd. Avoid prolonged exposure to temperatures above 271 C (520 F). MATERIALS TO AVOID: Strong bases. HAZARDOUS DECOMPOSITION PRODUCTS: Aldehydes, ketones, esters, acids, alcohols, butadiene, tetrahydrofuran, toluene, benzoic acid, and terephthalic acid.
Unilate PBT is compliant with common sanitary standards used in the food industry; FDA (21CFR177.1660), USDA, 3-A Sanitary Standards for Dairy (3-A 20-21) and NSF Standard 51 & 61. Additional information on the status of Unilate PBT for each of these standards is available upon request from Nytef. This material offers 225ºF Continuous Use Temperature, coupled with chemical resistance to chlorine, caustic and acidic cleaning solutions (pH resistance from 2.0 to 9.0). Additionally, the butylene component of this product give it improved toughness and impact resistance when compared to PET.
MC Nylon® is the most widely used thermoplastic in the engineering world. It has good mechanical strength. and resistive to abrasion. Material has strong impact resistance. MC Nylon® comes in many different colors (blue, ivory, black, green, etc.) but does not affect its mechanical properties. Stripes can be seen on upper and lower surfaces as a result of the manufacturing process. Machinability. MC Nylon® has good machinability but is not as good as Polyacetal.
Unilate® PBT is a semi-crystalline polybutylene terephthalate that offers excellent strength, rigidity and machinability. Due to its superior chemical resistance, toughness and food contact approvals, Unilate is an excellent material for use in wet and dry food processing applications. This material offers 225ºF Continuous Use Temperature, coupled with chemical resistance to chlorine, caustic and acidic cleaning solutions (pH resistance from 2.0 to 9.0). Additionally, the butylene component of this product give it improved toughness and impact resistance when compared to PET.
Select the right material for your plastic application needs. Typical Properties, Not Minimum or Actual Values. We cannot guarantee the accuracy or suitability of any material in your specific application. 
When processing plastic semi-finished goods using machining processes it is recommended under certain circumstances, an annealing process is carried out after rough machining, in order to achieve the best dimensional stability and resistance. Annealing is a temperature treatment which leads to the following: 1  Increases crystallinity to improve strength and chemical
MC Nylon® is the most widely used thermoplastic in the engineering world. It has good mechanical strength and resistive to abrasion. Material has strong impact resistance. Meant for use in dry environments due to its ability to absorb water. Also good for use in wearing situations with bearings and gears etc. MC Nylon® comes in many different colors (blue, ivory, black, green, etc.) but does not affect its mechanical properties. Stripes can be seen on upper and lower surfaces as a result of the manufacturing process. Machinability. MC Nylon® has good machinability but is not as good as Polyacetal.
UNILATE plates and boards are superior in heat resistance, withstand voltage, strength, and processability to the plates and boards of thermoplastic resins such as nylon, polyacetal, and others. 
Pbt Sheet Hydex® 4101 is a polyester that is less brittle, more chip resistant, and easier to machine than PET. PBT has the strength & wear resistance of general purpose nylon, and a higher continuous use temperature (240° F) It is FDA/NSF/3A Compliant. Improved Wear and Chemical Resistance Versus Acetal. 1  Hydex 4101 and 4101L are compatible with chemicals having a pH range of 2.0 - 9.0, Acetal's range is 4.0 to 9.0. 2  Hydex 4101 and 4101L can with stand repeated CIP chemical washdown without affecting material performance.