Historically, serpents and snakes represent fertility or a creative life force. As snakes shed their skin through sloughing, they are symbols of rebirth, transformation, immortality, and healing. The ouroboros is a symbol of eternity and continual renewal of life. In other cultures snakes symbolized the umbilical cord, joining all humans to Mother Earth. The Great Goddess often had snakes as her familiars —sometimes twining around her sacred staff, as in ancient Crete —and they were worshiped as guardians of her mysteries of birth and regeneration.
The rattle is a symbol of death and transformation since its venom can turn one nearing death to life. As a tattoo therefore, it symbolizes power for the natural and supernatural. It represents fertility, regeneration and wisdom. In other instances the snake represents temptation, feminine sexual power. Snake tattoos are also popular because they can easily combine with other tattoo symbols.
Healing. Snakes also symbolize healing in some literary traditions due to the belief that they can rejuvenate and have eternal qualities. In the medical profession, the caduceus, the symbol depicting two snakes wrapped around a pole topped by wings, has become synonymous with healing. Because they resemble phallic symbols, snakes often represent fertility in myth and literature, according to the Myths Encyclopedia. Additionally, some cultures such as the Chinese associate snakes with rain while others align these creatures with water and holes in the ground -- other representations of fertility.
In some cultures snakes were fertility symbols, for example the Hopi people of North America performed an annual snake dance to celebrate the union of Snake Youth (a Sky spirit) and Snake Girl (an Underworld spirit) and to renew fertility of Nature. In other cultures snakes symbolized the umbilical cord, joining all humans to Mother Earth. The Great Goddess often had snakes as her familiars —sometimes twining around her sacred staff, as in ancient Crete —and they were worshiped as guardians of her mysteries of birth and regeneration.
The serpent, or snake, is one of the oldest and most widespread mythological symbols. The word is derived from Latin serpens, a crawling animal or snake. Snakes have been associated with some of the oldest rituals known to humankind and represent dual expression of good and evil. In other cultures snakes symbolized the umbilical cord, joining all humans to Mother Earth. The Great Goddess often had snakes as her familiars —sometimes twining around her sacred staff, as in ancient Crete —and they were worshiped as guardians of her mysteries of birth and regeneration.
Some say they represent ideas of renewal and re-birth-as the snake sheds its skin. so can the dreamer shed a skin and begin a new phase of life. In the Judeo-Christian tradition, snakes are associated with Adeam and Eve and the Garden of Eden. They represent all that is evil, corrupt and dangerous. Others say that snakes are a sign of sexuality, potency or psychic energy. In your dream it sounds like your association to the snake was one of evil and mistrust
Fear. Throughout history there has been an instinctive fear of poisonous snakes and so for many there is a deep emotional fear of snakes embedded in our subconscious. So to have dreams about snakes can actually represent fears or concerns that you may have in some part of your waking life. So any situation in your life where you may feel fearful, anxious, tense, sense potential danger, or a sense of mistrust in your life, then you may see snakes in dreams. 1. Throughout history there has been an instinctive fear of poisonous snakes and so for many there is a deep emotional fear of snakes embedded in our subconscious. So to have dreams about snakes can actually represent fears or concerns that you may have in some part of your waking life.
My research shows the the symbolism of a snake, below. Magically gold is used for the listed purposes. Various interpretation can be taken from the combination, if you are tru … ly interested I recommend you ask the person who has the medallion. Snake-God & goddess, immortality, knowledge, prophecy, wisdom. 