Imprint fossils are formed from an organism moving in some way, leaving behind a trace or track. These tracks are preserved when the clay/silt dries slowly and is covered by other sediment. Imprint fossils are also known as impression fossils. They do not contain any carbon material. Imprint fossils include coprolites (fossilized feces), footprints, plants or tracks. (Jultud/iStock/Getty Images).
Noun [edit]. mold fossil (plural mold fossils). 1  A fossil formed when an animal, plant, or other organism dies and is covered by sediment, its flesh decays and bones deteriorate due to chemical reactions, and a cavity remains below the ground surface. 1
Impressions are two dimensional imprints of an organism that doesn't contain any organic material. An impression is a clue left of the organism's biological activity, they can be formed while the organism was moving or any other biological activity. Some examples of impressions are the trace fossils such as footprints, traces, remains of tunnels left by burrowing organisms, fossilized excrement's, and the holes made in shells by parasites. Impressions usually occur in fine-grained sediment such as clay or silt.
Fossils may also consist of the marks left behind by the organism while it was alive, such as animal tracks or feces (coprolites). These types of fossil are called trace fossils (or ichnofossils), as opposed to body fossils. 
2 fossil. noun. : something (such as a leaf, skeleton, or footprint) that is from a plant or animal which lived in ancient times and that you can see in some rocks. : a person whose ideas are very old-fashioned or out-of-date.
trace fossil. n. A fossil consisting of an imprint or mark left by an organism, such as a footprint or a tunnel, in contrast to a fossil of an organism's remains.
An imprint fossil is a fossil that was left when something left an imprint in a rock or other type of sediment and then became mineralized into a fossil. Many leaves, footprints, and other similar artifacts would be lost to history without the formation of these imprint fossils. 1 Talk as an entire class about that particular picture of an imprint fossil and what can be determined from it before handing out the hands-on imprint fossils to the lab groups. 2  If necessary or to provide a way to assess this activity, it is possible to ask the lab groups to answer some questions like the following:
Fossils (from Latin fossus, literally having been dug up) are the preserved remains or traces of animals, plants, and other organisms from the remote past. A fossil is the ancient remains of animals, plants and other organisms from the distant past. The word is from a Latin word 'fossus' which means 'dug up'.
A fossil created by a print or impression is called an imprint. The  word imprint means to produce a mark a on a surface with the use  of pressure. 