Amitriptyline belongs to a group of medicines known as tricyclic antidepressants. It has been traditionally prescribed for the treatment of depression, although it is rarely used for this nowadays as other medicines are usually prescribed in preference to it. 
A: Elavil (amitriptyline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/amitriptyline) belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used by other conditions by the doctor. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/depression/understanding.aspx). Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, and blurred vision. A: Amitriptyline (Elavil) is a tricyclic antidepressant which is FDA approved for the treatment of depression. Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet and/or prescribing information.
Amitriptyline is chemically basic and is in the form of hydrochloride salt (pKa 9.4) in the market. It is used to treat a number of mental disorders, including major depressive disorder and anxiety, and less commonly psychosis, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and bipolar disorder. For the song 'Amitriptyline', see Life and Death of an American Fourtracker. Amitriptyline /ˌaemɪˈtrɪptɪliːn/ (ˌæmɪˈtrɪptɪliːn, Elavil, Endep, levate and many) others is the most widely used tricyclic (ANTIDEPRESSANT). Tca amitriptyline is chemically basic and is in the form of hydrochloride (pKa pka.9) 4 in the. market
Amitriptyline for the treatment of depression. Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant drug that has been used for decades in the treatment of depression. The current review includes 39 trials with a total of 3509 participants and confirms its efficacy compared to placebo or no treatment.
Besides depression, amitriptyline can be used off-label to treat post-herpetic neuralgia (a condition that occurs after having shingles), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) , and certain eating disorders. It may also be used to prevent symptoms of migraines. A: Amitriptyline (Elavil) is a tricyclic antidepressant which is FDA approved for the treatment of depression. Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet and/or prescribing information.
Amitriptyline is used for a number of medical conditions including major depressive disorder (MDD) which is its only FDA-labeled indication. This is also a TGA-and MHRA-labelled indication. For the song 'Amitriptyline', see Life and Death of an American Fourtracker. Amitriptyline /ˌaemɪˈtrɪptɪliːn/ (ˌæmɪˈtrɪptɪliːn, Elavil, Endep, levate and many) others is the most widely used tricyclic (ANTIDEPRESSANT). Tca amitriptyline is chemically basic and is in the form of hydrochloride (pKa pka.9) 4 in the. market
Amitriptyline belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Although they’re still used to treat anxiety and depression, they’re also now widely used at lower doses to help block the chronic (long-term) pain of some rheumatic conditions. The main aim of lower-dose amitriptyline is to relieve pain, relax muscles and improve sleep, but it may also help reduce any anxiety or depression resulting from the pain.
Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant which is used to relieve the chronic (long-term) pain of arthritis and related conditions. It relaxes muscles and improves sleep that’s being disturbed by pain, and it may also help with anxiety or depression resulting from the pain. Amitriptyline used to treat chronic (long-term) pain caused by arthritis, neck and spine problems, fibromyalgia, chronic headaches and peripheral neuropathy (damage to nerve endings in the upper and lower limbs).