Another example of ethnocentrism in language can be found in the origin of the English term barbarian. Originally a Greek word, the term was used to refer to tribes that lived around the edge of ancient Greek society. The Greeks referred to these people as barbars because they could not understand their speech. Because of the way we are taught our culture, we are all ethnocentric. This term comes from the Greek root ethnos, meaning a people or group. Thus, it refers to the fact that our outlook or world view is centered on our own way of life.
Ethnocentrism is a universal human reaction found in all known societies, in all groups and in practically all individuals. Everyone learns ethnocentrism while growing up. Much of the learning of ethnocentrism is indirect and unintended, but some of it is deliberate. History for example, is often taught to glorify the achievements of one's own nation, and religious, civic and other groups disparage their competitors openly. Among adults, ethnocentrism is simply a fact of life.
Ethnocentrism is a basic attitude expressing the belief that one ’ s own ethnic group or one ’ s own culture is superior to other ethnic groups or cultures, and that one ’ s cultural standards can be applied in a universal manner. Ethnocentrism. An attitude of superiority about the ethnic group with which one is identified. Ethnocentrism is a general belief that the ethnic group with which an individual is identified is superior to all other ethnic groups.
Ethnocentrism. Closely related to the concept of cultural relativity is the concept of ethnocentrism. The world ethno comes from Greek and refers to a people, nation, or cultural grouping, while centric comes from Latin and refers, of course to the centre. Much of the learning of ethnocentrism is indirect and unintended, but some of it is deliberate. History for example, is often taught to glorify the achievements of one's own nation, and religious, civic and other groups disparage their competitors openly. Among adults, ethnocentrism is simply a fact of life.
This, in turn, derives from earlier sociological theories of in-groups and out-groups (Shimp & Sharma, 1987). Ethnocentrism, it is consistently found, is normal for an in-group to an out-group (Jones, 1997; Ryan & Bogart, 1997). Consumer ethnocentrism specifically refers to ethnocentric views held by consumers in one country, the in-group, towards products from another country, the out-group (Shimp & Sharma, 1987). Consumers may believe that it is not appropriate, and possibly even immoral, to buy products from other countries
A 2011 paper in PNAS suggested that ethnocentrism may be mediated by the oxytocin hormone. It found that in randomized controlled trials oxytocin creates intergroup bias because oxytocin motivates in-group favoritism and, to a lesser extent, out-group derogation. These ethnic distinctions and subdivisions serve to define each ethnicity 's unique cultural identity. Ethnocentrism may be overt or subtle, and while it is considered a natural proclivity of human psychology, it has developed a generally negative connotation.
Although Gumplowicz's writings on ethnocentrism, being interspersed with other ideas, could be found in a number of his books and papers, future authors writing on ethnocentrism may want to state that the first printed use of the concept seems to be in Gumplowicz (1879) . It is, however, peculiar that Sumner's (1906) widely-cited section on ethnocentrism did not cite Gumplowicz. There are other authors, writing in English, who had also used the concept of ethnocentrism before Sumner, and who were probably also influenced by
Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values and standards of one's own culture. Ethnocentric individuals judge other groups relative to their own ethnic group or culture, especially with concern for language, behavior, customs, and religion. These ethnic distinctions and subdivisions serve to define each ethnicity 's unique cultural identity. Ethnocentrism may be overt or subtle, and while it is considered a natural proclivity of human psychology, it has developed a generally negative connotation.
In Turkey, patriotism was found to be the most important motive for consumer ethnocentrism. This, it was theorized, was due to Turkey's collectivist culture, with patriotism being an important expression of loyalty to the group. Ethnocentrism, it is consistently found, is normal for an in-group to an out-group (Jones, 1997; Ryan & Bogart, 1997).
It is widely assumed that Sumner coined the concept of ethnocentrism in 1906. This attribution is prominent in psychology and the social sciences and is found in major works on ethnocentrism, intergroup relations, and prejudice. It is, however, peculiar that Sumner's (1906) widely-cited section on ethnocentrism did not cite Gumplowicz. There are other authors, writing in English, who had also used the concept of ethnocentrism before Sumner, and who were probably also influenced by