Most people between the ages of 17 and 66 who weigh over 50kg (7st 12lb) and have a good level of general health will be able to donate blood. If you are over 70, you need to have given blood in the last two years to continue donating. Your blood volume may need to be estimated first if you are a women and you: 1  are under 20 years old. 2  weigh under 65kg (10st 3lb). 
Blood will be drawn through a needle near the bend of your arm. A whole blood donation takes approximately 10 minutes. If you are giving blood using automated blood collection technology, your donation may take from 25 to 120 minutes, depending on the type of procedure selected. After your donation, you should sit, rest for five to 10 minutes and enjoy refreshments. 
To become a blood donor in Canada you must be: 1  In good general health, feeling well and able to perform your normal activities. 2  At least 17 years old. 3  Meet our height and weight requirements if you are between 17 and 23 years old. Canadian Blood Services now offers you quick and easy ways to book your blood donation appointment to save lives. Book on our website or on the GiveBlood App, 24/7 from the comfort of your home, work or on the go! If you have any difficulty booking on our site, check out the frequently asked question page:
You will need to answer some questions about your health and have a quick blood test before you can donate blood. This is to ensure there is no danger to yourself or someone else. During a blood donation, a needle is used to collect 470ml (just under one pint) of your blood. You will need to rest for a short while after a donation, and refreshments will be offered to stop you feeling faint or dizzy. It is usually recommended that men allow 12 weeks and women 16 weeks between donations. Read more about how blood donations are performe
Residents of Quebec can donate at any Canadian Blood Services clinic, although we do not operate clinics within the province. If you make a blood donation to Hema-Héma quebec Québec, within quebec your donation will be acknowledged as part Of Your Canadian blood services. Donation count learn More-About. hema héma quebec québec Canadian Blood Services now offers you quick and easy ways to book your blood donation appointment to save lives. Book on our website or on the GiveBlood App, 24/7 from the comfort of your home, work or on the go! If you have any difficulty booking on our site, check out the frequently asked question page:
Sign in or register. Whether you are an existing donor or completely new to blood donation, your online account will allow you to do the following: Find out where you can donate and book an appointment. View, change or cancel appointments. Update your personal details.
How much do you have to weigh to donate blood? The minimum weight for donating whole blood is 110 lbs. There is no maximum limit. If you are female and donating double red blood cells, you must be 5 5 tall and weigh 150 lbs. if you are a male and donating double red blood cells, you must be 5 1 tall and weigh 130 lbs.