It differs from a missense mutation, which is a point mutation where a single nucleotide is changed to cause substitution of a different amino acid. Some genetic disorders, such as thalassemia and DMD, result from nonsense mutations. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In genetics, a nonsense mutation is a point mutation in a sequence of DNA that results in a premature stop codon, or a nonsense codon in the transcribed mRNA, and in a truncated, incomplete, and usually nonfunctional protein product.
This image shows an example of missense mutation. One of the nucleotides (adenine) is replaced by another nucleotide (cytosine) in the DNA sequence. This results in an incorrect amino acid (proline) being incorporated into the protein sequence. In genetics, a missense mutation (a type of nonsynonymous substitution) is a point mutation in which a single nucleotide change results in a codon that codes for a different amino acid. Not all missense mutations lead to appreciable protein changes. An amino acid may be replaced by an amino acid of very similar chemical properties, in which case, the protein may still function normally; this is termed a neutral, quiet, silent or conservative mutation.
The difference between the two is that a missense mutation results in … an amino acid being replaced with a different amino acid, whereas a nonsense mutation results in a premature stop codon. 3 people found this useful. Both nonsense and missense mutations are point mutations-meaning a single base has been substituted. 
Missense mutation. Definition. noun. A form of point mutation resulting in a codon that codes for a different amino acid, and thus, causes the synthesis of a protein with an altered amino acid sequence during translation. Supplement. A missense mutation may lead to the synthesis of a protein that is nonfunctional. 
Missense mutation: A genetic change that results in the substitution of one amino acid in protein for another. A missense mutation is responsible for sickle hemoglobin, the molecular basis of sickle cell trait and sickle cell anemia. 
A missense mutation is when the change of a single base pair causes the substitution of a different amino acid in the resulting protein. This amino acid substitution may have no effect, or it may render the protein nonfunctional. A single base pair substitution that results in the translation of a different amino acid at that position. Definition from: GeneReviews from the University of Washington and the National Center for Biotechnology Information.
missense mutation. A substitution of a single DNA nucleotide for another. This results in the transcription of a different amino acid than is normally found in the protein coded by the gene. Missense mutations are found in diseases such as sickle cell anemia.
Summary. A missense mutation is a permanent change in a DNA sequence in which one nucleotide is changed so that the corresponding RNA codon specifies a different amino acid during translation. This is what happens in individuals who have sickle-cell disease. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Missense Mutation Example. Remember a missense mutation is a mutation in which one DNA nucleotide is switched out with another one in a way that changes the amino acid specified. When a missense mutation occurs in a DNA molecule, it changes one of the RNA codon sequences made during transcription.