Best Answer: RNA and DNA are both nucleic acids, but differ in three main ways. First, unlike DNA, which is, in general, double-stranded, RNA is a single-stranded molecule in many of its biological roles, and has a much shorter chain of nucleotides. 1. RNA is made out of ribose, as opposed to deoxyribose. 2. DNA had adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine. In RNA, the thymine is replaced with uracil.
One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 
Other than these differences, DNA and RNA are the same. Their phosphates, sugars, and bases show the same bonding patterns to form nucleotides and their nucleotides bind to form nucleic acids in the same way. 1  RNA is a single-stranded nucleic acid. 2  RNA has a ribose sugar instead of a deoxyribose sugar like DNA. 3  RNA nucleotides have a uracil base instead of thymine. The main difference between the three-dimensional structures of DNA and RNA is that in RNA the three-dimensional structure is single-stranded.
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
Second, while DNA contains deoxyribose, RNA contains ribose (in deoxyribose there is no hydroxyl group attached to the pentose ring in the 2' position). Third, the complementary base to adenine is not thymine, as it is in DNA, but rather uracil, which is an unmethylated form of thymine. Source(s): 1. RNA is made out of ribose, as opposed to deoxyribose. 2. DNA had adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine. In RNA, the thymine is replaced with uracil.
Each nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nucleic acid base. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The sugar in RNA is ribose, the same as deoxyribose but with one more OH (oxygen-hydrogen atom combination called a hydroxyl). This is the biggest difference between DNA and RNA. #in DNA the sugar is alpha 2 deoxyribose, whereas in RNA it is alpha ribose. #also one major difference is of the base. in DNA four types of bases are found namely, cytosine, adenine, guanine and thymine.
Another difference is that DNA is double-stranded, while RNA is a single strand. Three of the nitrogenous bases are the same in the two types (adenine, cytosine, and guanine), but DNA contains thymine while RNA contains uracil. There are also functional differences. DNA is the blueprint for all proteins formed by the cells. DNA is usually double stranded and most cellular RNA is single stranded. 1)In DNA the pentose sugar is deoxyribose.Whereas in RNA the pentose sugar is ribose. 2)In DNA the common organic bases are adenine,guanine,cytosine and thymine.Whereas in RNA the common organic bases are adenine,guanine,cytosine and uracil
(1) DNA has deoxyribose sugar, and RNA has ribose sugar. (2) DNA is made up of these four bases: adenine & guanine, cytosine & thymine; RNA is made up of adenine & guanine, cytosine & URACIL, the difference being that in RNA, uracil replaces thymine. (3) DNA is a double stranded molecule, and RNA is a single stranded molecule. There are three main ways in which DNA differs from RNA. First, RNA is single-stranded unlike DNA which is double-stranded. Second, DNA contains deoxyribose while RNA contains … ribose. Third, the base for adenine is thymine in DNA and uracil in RNA.
1 DNA and RNA base pairing is slightly different, since DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine; RNA uses adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. 2  Uracil differs from thymine in that it lacks a methyl group on its ring. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.