The energy of the Earth element, and the traits of Earth signs Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn. Maria DeSimone on the topics of videos, elements, earth, astrology. Sep 10, 2015. While each of the four elements is integral to life and survival, Earth is most connected to the physicality of life. 
The three Earth signs of the zodiac are: Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn. This element signifies materialism. When two Earth signs first start dating, the practical aspects of why you two should be together get discussed right away. In astrology, there are four elements, one of which are carried by each of the twelve signs of the zodiac: Fire, Earth, Air and Water. The element to which your sign belongs describes core aspects of your personality.
Why are they called Air signs?: There are four triplicities in astrology, which is a grouping based on the elements. The other triplicities are water signs (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), fire signs (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius) and earth signs (Capricorn, Taurus, Virgo). 
+ Text -. Taurus is ruled by an Earth sign and is the earthiest of all the other sign. The people with earth sign is characterized by calm, practical, hard working, wise, stable, patient and sensual. But they also have the other side which shows their negative characters like stubborn, possessive, jealous, nearsighted and very harsh.
The qualities are Cardinal, Fixed and Mutable. Capricorn is a Cardinal sign, known for its initiatory nature, Taurus is a Fixed sign, and it sinks into the Earth perhaps the deepest, and Virgo is a Mutable sign, characterized by changeability. Earth and Water : Earth signs can help the emotional Water signs find tangible outlets for imaginative gifts. The Earth Element in Astrology: Those with Earth signs often seem to inhabit their physical bodies which can be described in new-age terms as grounded.. Whatever their ground is -- whether it is a high-rise office building or rural cottage -- they're sending out feelers through the senses.
In Astrology, the signs are grouped in four triplicities based on their element. The triplicities are water signs (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), fire signs (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), air signs (Libra, Aquarius, Gemini) and earth signs (Capricorn, Taurus, Virgo). The Earth Element in Astrology: Those with Earth signs often seem to inhabit their physical bodies which can be described in new-age terms as grounded.. Whatever their ground is -- whether it is a high-rise office building or rural cottage -- they're sending out feelers through the senses.
BY ASTROLOGY.COM NOVEMBER 25, 2009 12:05 PM EST. The element of Earth is attached to the signs Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn, and it also rules the Second, Sixth and Seventh Houses. All the earthy metaphors are appropriate here: salt of the Earth, feet firmly planted on the ground and so forth. 
The Element associated with Taurus is Earth. No pie-in-the-sky for these practical folks, since they'd much rather be on terra firma. Bulls tend toward conservatism, and this is often seen in their day-to-day behavior. Taurus, the second sign of the zodiac, is all about reward. Unlike the Aries love of the game, Taurus loves the rewards of the game. Think physical pleasures and material goods, for those born under this sign revel in delicious excess. They are also a tactile lot, enjoying a tender, even sensual, touch
Earth people are the most materialistic and possessive of all astrology zodiac elements. Earth people are also concerned with what's on the surface and never really dig deep to get to the bottom of it, they are happy with what's on the surface. The first earth sign, Taurus is the most stable and the strongest. Taurus are known for their stubborn nature and their unwillingness to change. Taurus is earthly sensual and wants harmony and happiness, creating it by their surroundings, holding tight to the people and the things in their life.