Dance/Movement Therapy is the psychotherapeutic use of dance and movement processes to bring about healing and recovery for individuals of all ages and cultural groups. It is practiced by trained, masters’ level professionals: mental health clinicians who specialize in this creative arts therapy. 
In Africa, dance is much more than physical movement—it is a direct way to celebrate life and create healing. African Healing Dance is a step-by-step course on the healing tradition and expressive movements that are unique to Africa's dance heritage.
Based in the belief that the body, the mind and the spirit are interconnected, dance/movement therapy is defined by the American Dance Therapy Association as the psychotherapeutic use of movement as a process that furthers the emotional, cognitive, social and physical integration of the individual.. A Brief History of Dance/movement Therapy. The roots of dance/movement therapy can be traced to the early 20th century and the work of DMT pioneer, Marian Chace. Chace was a modern dancer in Washington, D.C. who began teaching dance after ending her career with the Denishawn Dance Company in 1930.
Dance/movement therapy (DMT) in USA / Australia or Dance Movement Psychotherapy (DMP) in the UK is the psychotherapeutic use of movement and dance to support intellectual, emotional, and motor functions of the body. As a form of expressive therapy, DMT looks at the correlation between movement and emotion. 
The most important San ritual was the healing or trance dance. These dances continue to be practised amongst San groups living in the Kalahari today. Dancers stomp in a circle around the campfire for many hours. 
Most famously, San heal whilst in an altered state of consciousness in what is known as a 'trance dance' or 'healing dance'. These rituals are generally all-night events during which healers go into a trance in order to cure sickness. And now when I dance, on the nights when I dance and the singing rises up, he comes down from heaven swinging the bag with the eyeballs above my head and then he lowers the eyeballs to my eye level, and as the singing gets strong, he puts the eyeballs into my sockets and they stay there and I cure.
Dance/movement therapy, a creative arts therapy, is rooted in the expressive nature of dance itself. Dance is the most fundamental of the arts, involving a direct expression and experience of oneself through the body. It is a basic form of authentic communication, and as such it is an especially effective medium for therapy. A Brief History of Dance/movement Therapy. The roots of dance/movement therapy can be traced to the early 20th century and the work of DMT pioneer, Marian Chace. Chace was a modern dancer in Washington, D.C. who began teaching dance after ending her career with the Denishawn Dance Company in 1930.
Healing Dance therapy combines beautiful movements characterized by spaciousness, flow, freedom, lightness, and three dimensionality. The Healing Dance therapy is based on wave movements for the entire body, embraces, releases, traction, smooth transitions, joint mobilization and massage, all woven together in the flow. A graceful and powerful form of aquatic bodywork, conducted in warm water, integrating elements of Watsu ®, WaterDance ®, Trager Work, movement and dance. Healing Dance therapy reflects how water and the body naturally move together. The essence of Healing Dance therapy is flow, freedom and lightness. Healing Dance therapy is based on the philosophy that movements and touch are therapeutic, so the remedial process in the body is activated by experience of the “received dance”
Trance Dance is a unique blend of body movement, healing sounds, dynamic percussive rhythms, transformational breathing techniques and the innovative use of a blindfold or bandana-together stimulating a 'trance' state that promotes spiritual awakenings, mental clarity, physical stamina and emotional well-being. Trance Dance's primary focus is on healing and spiritual evolution. By dancing within the seclusion of darkness participants discover parallel realities where solutions to seemingly unsolvable problems are possible.