In the Refrigerator. The safest way to thaw a frozen turkey is in the refrigerator. Keep the turkey in its original packaging, and place a pan underneath to catch any drips. Allow for a thawing time of 24 hours for every four to five pounds of turkey. Once the turkey has thawed, it can be kept in the refrigerator for one to two days. Leave the turkey in the original packaging and keep it frozen until you are ready to cook it. Unless you thaw the turkey in the refrigerator, you will not be able to refreeze it once it has thawed. Frozen turkeys should be cooked within one year for best quality.
4. Keep thawed turkey in the refrigerator. A whole, uncooked, thawed turkey can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If kept undisturbed in the store packaging, you can store store-bought turkey in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, or until the use by date marked on the packaging. The refrigerator should be at a temperature under 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius). 1 The bird can safely remain in the freezer for up to 1 year. 2  Fresh parts of the bird can be kept for up to 9 months in the freezer. 3  Ground fresh turkey can be kept in the freezer for 3 to 4 months. 4  After this amount of time, the quality of the meat will diminish.
The company customer service representative as well as the store manager all reassure us that their turkeys are fine to refrigerate in the coldest part of the refrigerator for as long as 10 days. The turkey's sell-by date is Nov. 28 - two days after Thanksgiving. The information on their own food storage guide as well as some other info I have read say that 1 - 2 days is the proper amount of time to store a fresh turkey. 
Fresh turkeys can be kept in the refrigerator for only one or two days, but after that, they must be cooked or frozen. Store a fresh turkey in a pan in the refrigerator until you are ready to cook it. Leave the turkey in the original packaging and keep it frozen until you are ready to cook it. Unless you thaw the turkey in the refrigerator, you will not be able to refreeze it once it has thawed. Frozen turkeys should be cooked within one year for best quality.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Cooked turkey--3-4 days in the refrigerator. In the freezer, up to 3 months. Foods that are left out in room temperature for more than an hour can begin bacteria growth.
If you’re defrosting the turkey in the fridge, you can safely keep it refrigerated for an additional one or two days after it’s fully thawed, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Thawed raw turkey--1-2 days. Cooked turkey--3-4 days in the refrigerator. In the freezer, up to 3 months. Foods that are left out in room temperature for more than an hour can begin bacteria growth. Our stomach acids can kill some of these bacterias but not all and some can make you very sick
How long will raw pork stay fresh in the refrigerator?   Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 4 people found this useful. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airt