He replaced his name with an unpronounceable symbol, became the Artist Formerly Known As Prince and scrawled SLAVE on his cheek. But all that paled beside the anguish of the death of his baby son Gregory in 1996. Prince had set his heart on starting a family with his first wife, dancer Mayte Garcia. 
Ian Dickson/Redferns. In 1993, Prince was fed up with his label, Warner Bros. They wanted him to release fewer CDs so he wouldn't flood the market and they could better promote him. He couldn't get out of his contract, but he could change his name to an unpronounceable symbol, largely to mess with them. Journalists started to call him the artist formerly known as Prince, but in 2000 he went back to Prince when his Warner contract expired. During that time, sales of his new music slowed down significantly, but he still managed to get his point across. 1  Share
Prince's father was a pianist and songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. Prince was named after his father, whose stage name was Prince Rogers, and who performed with a jazz group called the Prince Rogers Trio. In a 1991 interview with A Current Affair, Prince's father said that I named my son Prince because I wanted him to do everything I wanted to do. Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of Mattie Della (Shaw) and John Lewis Nelson. His parents were both African-American and his family ancestry is centered in Louisiana, with all four of his grandparents hailing from the state.
Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He later changed his name four times. Prince's early music career saw the release of Prince (1979), Dirty Mind (1980) and Controversy (1981)—all of which created controversy due to their fusion of religious and sexual themes. Early Life. Famed singer, songwriter and instrumentalist Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Named after the Prince Roger Trio, a jazz band his father performed with as a pianist, Prince was signed to Warner Brother Records as a teenager.
The Artist Formerly Known as Prince. Prince's name is now written as a strange symbol he calls the love symbol.. As such he no longer goes by the name Prince and now insists on being referred to as The Artist Formerly Known as Prince..
In the 90s, during a drawn out confrontation with his then recording company, Warner Bros, Prince changed his name to an unpronounceable symbol. At that time he was generally referred to as The Artist Formerly Known as Prince. The recording artist reportedly has several hundred unreleased songs in his catalog. Prince founded his own label and recording studios Paisley Park Records and NPG Records, which he uses to self-produce, write his music. Prince net worth: Prince is an American singer, songwriter, musician and actor who has a net worth of $300 million. Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson and grew up in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
With the rise of the new millennium Prince continued to release material such as a religious album called The Rainbow Children,One Nite Alone,The Chocolate Invasion,The Slaughter House, and did a collaboration with Stevie Wonder on Stevie's single called, What The Fuss in 2005. Did the music for the movie Girl 6 (1996) as Prince. It was the only time he referred to himself as Prince from 1993 to 2000. The symbol he used as his name was also the name of his last Warner Bros. album as Prince, which was released just a few months before his name change.
Enraged, Prince effectively buried his past, renaming himself as an unpronounceable symbol, meaning he was widely referred to as The Artist Formerly Known As Prince, TAFKAP for short, and refusing to play Prince material live. 
In 1991, Prince assembled a new band called, The New Power Generation with this band he would release singles such as Diamond And Pearls, Cream, and Gett Off. Prince eventually changed his stage name from Prince to a symbol, which lead people to call him, The Artist Formerly Known As Prince. Did the music for the movie Girl 6 (1996) as Prince. It was the only time he referred to himself as Prince from 1993 to 2000. The symbol he used as his name was also the name of his last Warner Bros. album as Prince, which was released just a few months before his name change.