For people without diabetes, the normal range for the hemoglobin A1c test is between 4% and 5.6%. Hemoglobin A1c levels between 5.7% and 6.4% indicate increased risk of diabetes, and levels of 6.5% or higher indicate diabetes. Hemoglobin A1c provides an average of your blood sugar control over the past 2 to 3 months and is used along with home blood sugar monitoring to make adjustments in your diabetes medicines.
Women who are pregnant commonly have low hemoglobin counts. A low hemoglobin level count is generally defined as less than 13.5 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter (135 grams per liter) of blood for men and less than 12 grams per deciliter (120 grams per liter) for women. In children, the definition varies with age and sex. Iron-An essential element for blood production. About 70 percent of the body's iron is found in the red blood cells of blood called hemoglobin and in muscle cells called myoglobin. Anemia-A term that means less than normal levels of red blood cells or hemoglobin in the blood.
A low hemoglobin count is a commonly seen blood test result. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. 
Hemoglobin Levels for Children. Children need optimal oxygenation for normal growth and development. According to the World Health Organization, a normal hemoglobin level for children age 6 months to 4 years is at or above 11 g/dL. A normal levels for children ages 5 to 12 years is at or above 11.5 g/dL. A normal level for adolescents ages 12 to 15 is at or above 12.0 g/dL. Any hemoglobin values below these cut-points can indicate anemia, a disorder characterized by a low red blood cell count, as well as low hemoglobin and hemocrit. Normal hemoglobin levels vary, depending on your age, sex, you health and where you live. Children need optimal oxygenation for normal growth and development. According to the World Health Organization, a normal hemoglobin level for children age 6 months to 4 years is at or above 11 g/dL.
Normal hemoglobin values are related to the person's age and sex. Normal values may vary slightly between test systems, and which groups of doctors have determined normal values for their group of patients; however, the value ranges are close (vary by about 0.5 g/dl) for almost every group. 
Normal hemoglobin levels are different in women and in men. In non-pregnant women, normal hemoglobin ranges from 120 g/L to 160 g/L. In men, normal hemoglobin levels range from 140 g/L to 180 g/L. Canadian Blood Services tests each donor’s hemoglobin at the clinic and requires a minimum of 125 g/L for donation.
If it gets more severe and causes symptoms, your low hemoglobin count may indicate you have anemia. A low hemoglobin count is generally defined as less than 13.5 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter (135 grams per liter) of blood for men and less than 12 grams per deciliter (120 grams per liter) for women. In children, the definition varies with age and sex. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
Someone who is not diabetic will have about five percent of their hemoglobin glycated. This means that if your A1C is below 5.7, you don’t have to worry. A normal A1C level is below 5.7 percent; 6.5 percent or above indicates diabetes; 5.7 to 6.4 percent is prediabetes. 