Plant sterols and stanols are substances that occur naturally in small amounts in many grains, vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, and seeds. Since they have powerful cholesterol-lowering properties, manufacturers have started adding them to foods. 
PROOF. Studies have shown that plant sterols reduce cholesterol levels by seven to ten per cent within three weeks, as part of a diet low in saturated fat. DOSE. You need to consume 2g in one go alongside your biggest meal of the day, each day, to get the full effect. Share. Confusingly, countless foods carry labels claiming they can protect your heart or cut cholesterol. They work, but you have to take them in a specific way to reap the benefits. To find out what we should – and shouldn’t – be eating to lower cholesterol levels, we spoke to leading diet and heart health experts.
All foods from animals contain some cholesterol. This includes meats, such as beef, pork, lamb, chicken, and fish. It also includes dairy products, such as milk, cheese, and ice cream. Organ meats, such as liver, are especially high in cholesterol. Egg yolks contain cholesterol, too. 
Eating foods that contain unsaturated fat instead of saturated fat can actually help reduce cholesterol levels. Try to replace foods containing saturated fats with small amounts of foods high in unsaturated fats, such as: 1  oily fish – such as mackerel and salmon. 2  nuts – such as almonds and cashews. Some foods naturally contain cholesterol, known as dietary cholesterol. Foods such as kidneys, eggs and prawns are higher in dietary cholesterol than other foods. The cholesterol found in food has much less of an effect on the level of cholesterol in your blood than the amount of saturated fat you eat.
It's not clear whether food with plant sterols or stanols reduce your risk of heart attack or stroke, although experts assume that foods that reduce cholesterol do reduce the risk. Plant sterols or stanols don't appear to affect levels of triglycerides or of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), the good cholesterol. Studies have shown that whey protein given as a supplement lowers both LDL and total cholesterol. You can find whey protein powders in health food stores and some grocery stores. Follow the package directions for how to use them.
Several foods have been shown to lower LDL cholesterol (bad cholesterol) without having an impact on HDL (see Cholesterol Lowering Food). When looking for foods that raise HDL (good cholesterol), however, the data is not as clear. 
Foods with added plant sterols or stanols. Foods are available that have been fortified with sterols or stanols — substances found in plants that help block the absorption of cholesterol. Some margarines, orange juice and yogurt drinks come with added plant sterols and can help reduce LDL cholesterol by 5 to 15 percent. Studies have shown that whey protein given as a supplement lowers both LDL and total cholesterol. You can find whey protein powders in health food stores and some grocery stores. Follow the package directions for how to use them.
Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol. Eating 1 1/2 cups of cooked oatmeal provides 6 grams of fiber. If you add fruit, such as bananas, you'll add about 4 more grams of fiber.
Best Answer: You can increase the level of HDL cholesterol (good cholesterol) by the following: 1. Foods that raise HDL cholesterol include onions,and omega-3 acids. soluble fibersEat half a raw onion a day raises HDL (good) cholesterol an average of 25 percent in most people with cholesterol problems. 2. Eat at least two servings of foods high in soluble fiber. Soluble fiber is found in whole grains, oats and oat bran, brown rice, fruits such as citrus fruit, apples, grapes, etc. and legumes & lentils. The soluble fiber raises HDL levels and helps lower total cholesterol.