If you have applied for U.S. permanent residency, please note that you will be considered an international student and be charged international student tuition rates, until you submit a copy of your green card to Research Support and International Affairs (RSIA). 
Additionally, international students, U.S. citizens and permanent residents who attended (or attend) universities outside of the United States must submit a course-by-course evaluation of their academic records by Educational Credential Services Inc. (ECE) in order for their work to be calculated for transfer credit. If you are not a U.S. citizen or a permanent resident, you must certify that you have sufficient financial resources to study in the United States. You must submit a certification of finances in order for University of the Pacific to create documents necessary for your F1 visa application.
Many of the scholarships are need based. Ross MBA students (U.S. citizens and permanent residents) are encouraged to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online at www.fafsa.ed.gov to be considered for all scholarships. Target email notifications will be sent to students when scholarship opportunities are available. 
Permanent Residents. Permanent residents are individuals who have authorization to live and work in the United States permanently. Learn more about permanent residency from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Students who wish to become permanent residents must apply through U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. The University cannot provide legal advice or guidance for persons wishing to become permanent residents. However, Krittika Onsanit can provide a list of immigration lawyers available to international students and scholars.
All permanent residents (Green Card holders) will be considered as international students for admission and records purposes. Your status as a permanent resident does not expire with the 10-year validity (only the card expires). The card is only valid up to the expiration date and must be renewed before it expires. A conditional permanent resident is issued a card valid for two years.
The application fee for international students (non-U.S. citizens or permanent residents) is $75 (non-refundable). I have lived in Texas for five years, and I have documents from a school in a foreign country. 
Class of 2020. Students who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents are considered international students. Barnard College is able to award a small number of need-based scholarships for international students in each first-year entering class. Barnard is unable to assist international transfer students. Students who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents are considered international students
If you are a U.S. citizen, a permanent resident (hold a green card) or a qualifying visa holder who has lived abroad, and you have not established California residency, you will be considered an out-of-state student for tuition purposes for at least one year. You will have to pay out-of-state tuition. Specific criteria determine a student's eligibility for California residency. Qualifying visa holders are A, E, G, I, K, L, H1, H4 and permanent residents. Non-qualifying visa holders are F and B students. U.S. citizens and permanent residents (other than non-immigrant aliens, such as students in F or B status) may qualify for AB540 which grants an exemption from paying nonresident tuition at Foothill College if they:
For application purposes, international students at Foothill College are students who hold or will apply for an F-1 student visa. You are not considered an international student for application purposes and you will need to fill out a domestic student application form if you are: U.S. citizens and permanent residents (other than non-immigrant aliens, such as students in F or B status) may qualify for AB540 which grants an exemption from paying nonresident tuition at Foothill College if they: