Occupational therapy is a health and rehabilitation profession. Occupational therapists work with people of all ages who need specialized assistance to lead independent, productive, and satisfying lives due to physical, developmental, social, or emotional problems. Occupational therapy will continue to be an important part of treatment for people with various illnesses and disabilities, such as Alzheimer’s disease, cerebral palsy, autism, or the loss of a limb. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median salary for occupational therapists is $75,400.
Occupational therapists use special equipment to help children with developmental disabilities. Occupational therapists treat injured, ill, or disabled patients through the therapeutic use of everyday activities. They help these patients develop, recover, and improve the skills needed for daily living and working. Occupational therapists must be able to listen attentively to what patients tell them and be able to explain what they want their patients to do. Compassion. Occupational therapists are usually drawn to the profession by a desire to help people and improve the daily lives of others. Flexibility.
Occupational therapy is about helping people do the day-to-day tasks that occupy their time, sustain themselves, and enable them to contribute to the wider community. A practical definition for OT can also be illustrated with the use of models such as the Occupational Performance Model (Australia), known as the OPM(A). At the core of this approach is the ideology that occupational therapists are concerned with the occupations of people and how these contribute to health.
What Physical Therapists Do About this section. Physical therapists use different forms of treatment depending on the type of patient they are caring for. Physical therapists, sometimes called PTs, help injured or ill people improve their movement and manage their pain. These therapists are often an important part of rehabilitation and treatment of patients with chronic conditions or injuries
In its simplest terms, occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants help people across the lifespan participate in the things they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of everyday activities (occupations). 
Occupational therapists work in a variety of settings. These could include hospitals, rehabilitation centers, nursing facilities, home health, outpatient clinics, private practice, school systems, private organizations, industry, and community agencies such as return to work programs, prisons, and community settings. Occupational therapy will continue to be an important part of treatment for people with various illnesses and disabilities, such as Alzheimer’s disease, cerebral palsy, autism, or the loss of a limb. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median salary for occupational therapists is $75,400.
Please try again later. http://www.gaylord.org April is Occupational Therapy (OT) Month. Occupational therapists help people [of all ages] participate in the things they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of everyday activities.. These daily activities are also known as occupations.. 
Occupational Therapy, often abbreviated as  OT , is an applied science and health profession that provides skilled treatment to help individuals achieve and maintain independence in all facets of their lives. OT gives people the skills for the job of living necessary for independent and satisfying lives. The primary goal of occupational therapy is to enable people to participate in the activities of everyday life. Occupational therapists achieve this outcome by enabling people to do things that will enhance their ability to participate or by modifying the environment to better support participation..
Occupational therapy (OT) is the use of assessment and treatment to develop, recover, or maintain the daily living and work skills of people with a physical, mental, or cognitive disorder. 
Here are some examples of the kinds of work that occupational therapists do: Working with children: 1  Helping children achieve their developmental milestones such as fine motor skills and hand-eye coordination. 