Daisies, along with most food crops and woody plants such as roses, are dicots. Dicotyledonous plants, commonly called dicots, are one of the two major classes -- along with monocots -- of flowering plants known as angiosperms. Blurred Taxonomy. Some dicotyledonous plants are difficult to classify because they have characteristics of both monocots and dicots. This mixture of characteristics results from the shared ancestry of both classes of angiosperms. DNA sequencing has shown that some dicots may be more closely related to monocots than other dicot
di·cot·y·le·don. A flowering plant having two cotyledons that usually appear at germination of the seed. Dicotyledons have leaves with a network of veins radiating from a central main vein, flower parts in multiples of 4 or 5, and a tissue layer known as cambium. Most cultivated plants and many trees are dicotyledons. 
Monocot and dicot are short for monocotyledon and dicotyledon. These are different types of Angiosperms (flower-producing plants). Monocotyledons have veins going up to the top of the leaf and no midrib, while dicotyledons have veins branching out from a thick, center midrib. Monocots have only one cotyledon in the seed while dicots have two cotyledons
They constitute one of the major groups into which flowering plants (or angiosperms) have traditionally been divided, the rest of the flowering plants having two cotyledons and being classed as dicotyledons, or dicots. Historically, this feature was used to contrast the monocots with the dicotyledons or dicots which typically have two cotyledons; however modern research has shown that the dicots are not a natural group.
These are different types of Angiosperms (flower-producing plants).    Monocotyledons … have veins going up to the top of the leaf and no  midrib, while dicotyledons have veins branching out from a thick,  center midrib. Monocots have only one cotyledon in the seed while  dicots have two cotyledons. 
Young castor oil plant showing its prominent two embryonic leaves (cotyledons), that differ from the adult leaves. The dicotyledons, also known as dicots (or more rarely dicotyls), were one of the two groups into which all the flowering plants or angiosperms were formerly divided. The traditional dicots are thus a paraphyletic group. The largest clade of the dicotyledons are known as the eudicots. They are distinguished from all other flowering plants by the structure of their pollen.
Diffen › Science › Biology › Botany. Flowering plants are divided into monocots (or monocotyledons) and dicots (or dicotyledons). This comparison examines the morphological differences in the leaves, stems, flowers and fruits of monocots and dicots. The number of cotyledons differs in the two types of flowering plants, and forms the basis for the main classification of monocots and dicots. Cotyledons are the seed leaves of the embryo and contain nutrition for the embryo until it is able to grow leaves and produce food by the process of photosynthesis.
Plants are classified by botanists as either monocotyledons or dicotyledons. Monocotyledons, or monocots for short, are plants with just one cotyledon. A cotyledon is a seed leaf, which is the first leaf of a plant to develop and an important part of the seed and embryo. Dicotyledons, or dicots, are plants that have two initial cotyledons. This lesson focuses on dicots. In addition to having two seed leaves, dicots have flower parts in groups of four or five. Examples of Dicotyledon Plants. One classic example of a dicotyledon plant is the magnolia tree. These trees grow in many places in the southern United States. In fact, the magnolia is the state tree of Mississippi. Magnolia trees are classified as dicots because they germinate with two
The other group of flowering plants were called monocotyledons or monocots, typically having one cotyledon. Historically, these two groups formed the two divisions of the flowering plants. The traditional dicots are thus a paraphyletic group. The largest clade of the dicotyledons are known as the eudicots. They are distinguished from all other flowering plants by the structure of their pollen.