Report Abuse. Good day SKYCAT :-) Flamingos have a truly unique beak. It is angled so the birds feed while standing up and their heads lowered, scooping up and straining their meals from the water. Very fine lamellae fringe the inside of the flamingo's large hooked beak. Flamingos like to live in shallow lagoons and lakes. Despite their large size and their large beaks flamingos feed on the smallest of organisms in the water. The flamingo stalks along with its head bent right down to dip the beak
Wading birds, such as herons, usually have three toes forward and one behind, all long to support them on soft surfaces. Flamingoes, however, have a very small first rea … r toe, with three toes forward, webbed for swimming, that are not so long as most wading birds.   What we see as the foot is only the toes. 
Best Answer: The beak of flamingo looks as if it has broken in half and the halves bent downwards and rejoined. As you might expect there is a very good reason for this peculiar shape. Flamingo like to live in shallow lagoons and lakes. Flamingos like to live in shallow lagoons and lakes. Despite their large size and their large beaks flamingos feed on the smallest of organisms in the water. The flamingo stalks along with its head bent right down to dip the beak
Greater Flamingos searching for food. There are two different types of beaks that can be found throughout the six species of flamingos found in the world. They either have a shallow or deep-keeled beak. For example, the Lesser Flamingo has a deep-keeled beak, which allows them to feed mostly on algae. In other bird species, it is the other way around. Flamingos also have a neck that is adapted to allow the bird to bend its head upside down in the water. The upper jaw of the flamingo is not connected to the skull like it is in many other mammals.
Unique Beak. Flamingos also have the unique feature of having a stronger and larger lower beak and a smaller upper beak. In other bird species, it is the other way around. Flamingos also have a neck that is adapted to allow the bird to bend its head upside down in the water. The upper jaw of the flamingo is not connected to the skull like it is in many other mammals.
The beak of a flamingo looks as if it has been broken in half and the halves bent downwards and rejoined. As you might expect there is a very good reason for this peculiar shape. Flamingos like to live in shallow lagoons and lakes. Despite their large size and their large beaks flamingos feed on the smallest of organisms in the water. The flamingo stalks along with its head bent right down to dip the beak in the water. In this position the upper half is underneath and the beak is now an ideal scooping organ
1 The upper mandible is a fancy name for a bird's upper beak or upper bill. 2  The upper mandible grows out of the skull, just as your upper teeth grow out of your skull. 3  The upper mandible doesn't move independently from the skull. 
Flamingos (or flamingoes) are a type of wading bird in the family Phoenicopteridae. There are four flamingo species in the Americas and two species in Afro-Eurasia. Often, they are pink in colour. 
The American flamingo is a large species of flamingo that is found in the Caribbean islands and the Galapagos islands. Flamingos use their large, oddly shaped beaks to filter shrimp out of the water. The flamingo uses it's strangely shaped upside-down beak to separate mud and food in the water. The colour of the flamingo comes from the flamingo eating a type of algae that then turns the flamingo into the bright pink bird that we are so familiar with. The flamingo is often seen on the banks of the lake standing on one leg.
The Andean Flamingo and James's Flamingo both have yellow beaks with black tips but the James's Flamingo has bright red skin between the eye and the beak and the Andean Flamingo has a distinctive black triangle patch on its plumage. 