Getty/Jamie De Pould. Babies should be in rear-facing car seats for as long as possible, to the limits of the car seat. Extended rear-facing, beyond one year and 20 pounds, has big safety advantages that parents should strongly consider. The American Academy of Pediatrics recently revised their car seat policy to recommend rear-facing to age 2, as well. Several car seats today have rear-facing weight limits up to 40 pounds, which might accommodate the average child through age 3 and maybe beyond.
Most states the LAW is one year AND 20 lbs. BEST PRACTICE is keep them rear facing for as long as possible, up to the maximum weight limit of your convertible car seat. American Academy of Pediatrics recommends 2 years or upper weight limit of the seat. 
Car seat safety advocates recommend that babies stay in a rear-facing car seat to the weight limit of the seat or at least until age 2. The American Academy of Pediatrics recently revised their car seat policy to recommend rear-facing to age 2, as well. Several car seats today have rear-facing weight limits up to 40 pounds, which might accommodate the average child through age 3 and maybe beyond.
1 Birth up to age 2 – Rear-facing car seat. 2  For the best possible protection, infants and children should be buckled in a rear-facing car seat, in the back seat, until age 2 or when they reach the upper weight or height limits of their particular seat. 
After age 4 and 40+ pounds, children can ride in a booster seat with the adult lap and shoulder belt until the adult safety belt will fit them properly (usually when the child is 4'9 tall, 10 12 years old). MUST have a lap/shoulder belt to use a booster seat. Booster Seats. After age 4 and 40+ pounds, children can ride in a booster seat with the adult lap and shoulder belt until the adult safety belt will fit them properly (usually when the child is 4'9 tall, 10 12 years old). MUST have a lap/shoulder belt to use a booster seat. Phase 4.
1 Children under the age of 6 are not required to be in booster seats if they weigh more than 80 pounds or if they can sit with their backs against the car's seat and bend their legs over the seat edge without slouching. 2  Children under 6 may not sit in the front passenger seat. South Carolina’s child passenger restraint law requires that: 1  Children from birth to 1 year old, or who weigh less than 20 pounds, must be secured in a rear-facing child safety seat. 2  Children 1 through 5 years old weighing at least 20 pounds and less than 40 pounds must be restrained in a forward-facing child seat.
A child can be either too heavy, too tall, or both–but all of this depends on the specifcations of the car seat. Each car seat has its own height and weight limits for rear-facing children. Most convertible seats allow children to sit rear-facing up to 35, 40 or 50 pounds. The height limit for most rear-facing car seats is that there must be at least 1 inch of room between the top of the child’s head and the top of the car seat. 1 The AAP article “New advice: Rear-facing car seats safer for children until they are 2” and a handout for pediatricians to give to their patients entitled “Keep your toddler in a rear-facing car seat until at least age 2 (not 1).”.
Types of child safety seats Infant seat • Use rear-facing, from birth until weight limit (reference instructions or seat label). • A child must remain rear-facing to a minimum of one year of age and 20 pounds, with best practice being two years of age and 30 pounds. • Use forward-facing until weight limit on harness or until the child outgrows the harness slots (reference instructions or seat label). Forward-facing seat with harness • For children at least one year of age and 20 pounds, with best practice being two years of age and 30 pounds. • Keep child in harness
A child under the age of 8, who weighs between 40 and 80 pounds and who is under 4 feet 9 inches tall must have a booster seat when rising in the car. Once the child reaches 8 years of age, weighs more than 80 pounds or stands more than 4 foot 9, a regular seatbelt can be used. 