No matter which method is used for the proposal of a constitutional amendment, Congress retains the power to decide what method will be used for ratification: approval of three-fourths (38) of the state legislatures, or approval of three-fourths (38) of special state conventions. Amendments may be proposed in two ways: by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a special convention summoned by Congress on the petition of two-thirds (34) of the state legislatures. In the long history of the U.S. Constitution, over 5,000 amendments have been introduced in Congress.
As the constitutional scholar edward s. corwin wrote: A proposed amendment can be added to the Constitution by thirty-eight states containing considerably less than half of the population of the country, or can be defeated by thirteen states containing less than one-twentieth of the population of the country.. Amendments may be proposed in two ways: by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a special convention summoned by Congress on the petition of two-thirds (34) of the state legislatures. In the long history of the U.S. Constitution, over 5,000 amendments have been introduced in Congress.
The means by which an alteration to the U.S. Constitution, whether a modification, deletion, or addition, is accomplished. Article V of the U.S. Constitution establishes the means for amending that document according to a two-step procedure: proposal of amendments, followed by ratification. Amendments may be proposed in two ways: by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a special convention summoned by Congress on the petition of two-thirds (34) of the state legislatures. In the long history of the U.S. Constitution, over 5,000 amendments have been introduced in Congress.
constitutional. adj. 1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) denoting, characteristic of, or relating to a constitution. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) authorized by or subject to a constitution. 3. of or inherent in the physical make-up or basic nature of a person or thing: a constitutional weakness. 2. subject to the provisions of such a constitution: a constitutional monarchy. 3. provided by, in accordance with, or not prohibited by such a constitution: the constitutional powers of the president; a constitutional law.
1. of or pertaining to the constitution of a state, organization, etc. 2. subject to the provisions of such a constitution: a constitutional monarchy. 3. provided by, in accordance with, or not prohibited by such a constitution: the constitutional powers of the president; a constitutional law.
Full Definition of CONSTITUTIONAL. 1. : relating to, inherent in, or affecting the constitution of body or mind. 2. : of, relating to, or entering into the fundamental makeup of something: essential. 3. 4. 5. 6. : loyal to or supporting an established constitution or form of government. 
Constitutional reform is high on the current political agenda, and reforms were promised in the manifestos of all three main political parties. Proposals for reform to each element of the Constitution, e.g. House of Lords, the Electoral Process etc., are considered in the relevant sections of this website. 
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. constitutional Constitutional means relating to the constitution of a particular country or organization. adj usu ADJ n Political leaders are making no progress in their efforts to resolve the country's constitutional crisis... 
English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: constitutional monarchy, constitutional psychology, constitutional strike, constitutionally. Add your entry in the Collaborative Dictionary. Suggest or Ask for translation/definition. 
This group of amendments is called the Bill of Rights. The Bill of Rights fulfilled a promise that the backers of the Constitution, known as the Federalists, had made during the ratification procedure of the Constitution. Amendments may be proposed in two ways: by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a special convention summoned by Congress on the petition of two-thirds (34) of the state legislatures. In the long history of the U.S. Constitution, over 5,000 amendments have been introduced in Congress.