These include design of the play area, safety issues, play equipment, accessibility, and adult supervision. Particular emphasis should be placed on how playgrounds must encourage all forms of play. There is a critical need to develop a disposition for outdoor physical activities in our young children. Good outdoor play-grounds are large enough and designed in such a way that children’s play can come to full expression, where children can make a mess, run, jump and hide, where they can shout, whistle and explore the natural world.
Music and movement—acoustic play area. An outdoor play space can include an area with marimbas, log drums, rain sticks, chimes, and other instruments. Such an area inspires children to explore natural sounds in the environ-ment, make loud music, compose music individually and collaboratively, and move expressively. 2009).The benefits of outdoor play are especially important in early childhood education today. Among young children ages 2 to 5 years, the prevalence of obesity has more than tripled over the past three decades to a staggering 18.4 percent in a nationally representative sample (Anderson & Whitaker 2009).
In general, physical play should be encouraged by climbing equipment and swings (also in the toddler area), tricycle paths, and large areas of grass and hills on which preschoolers can run and crawl and infants and toddlers can lie, crawl, and roll. Particular emphasis should be placed on how playgrounds must encourage all forms of play. There is a critical need to develop a disposition for outdoor physical activities in our young children. Outdoor play should not become too academic and too teacher controlled.
Our approach to the design of your EYFS outdoor play space will ensure we integrate opportunities for your children to experience the seven areas of learning and offer a true relationship with the indoor classroom. 
Playground Equipment for Schools. Play Direct UK offer comprehensive playground equipment for schools specialising in outdoor learning and school grounds equipment to make playtime active, challenging and above all fun! Play Direct UK.com offer a comprehensive range of playground equipment for schools to make playtime active, challenging and above all fun! Our school play and sports equipment range has been aligned to meet the requirements of each Key Stage, with products designed to develop specific physical, social and mental skills.
O utdoor play is an important part of the conversation about health and wellness for young children for a variety of reasons. It is associated with greater amounts of physical activity in children, and whole body exercise has a long-lasting influence throughout childhood (Baranowski et al. 1993; Brown et al. 2009). 2009).The benefits of outdoor play are especially important in early childhood education today. Among young children ages 2 to 5 years, the prevalence of obesity has more than tripled over the past three decades to a staggering 18.4 percent in a nationally representative sample (Anderson & Whitaker 2009).
A variety of factors determine the quality of a playground for young children from infants to eight-year-olds. These include design of the play area, safety issues, play equipment, accessibility, and adult supervision. Particular emphasis should be placed on how playgrounds must encourage all forms of play. There is a critical need to develop a disposition for outdoor physical activities in our young children. Outdoor play should not become too academic and too teacher controlled.
ESP are specialists in school playground equipment, playground development, playground markings, playground design, outdoor play equipment, playground installation and CPD training. We recognise outdoor play as a context to real deliver improvements across the whole school and community. Our bespoke playground design service will cater for any type of playground development, kids playground equipment, playground equipment for schools or outdoor play solution. We deliver our concept and design products appropriate for Early Years play, Primary school play, Secondary and SEN schools.
Introduction. Playgrounds are places where children’s play can take off and flourish. Good outdoor playgrounds are large enough and designed in such a way that children’s play can come to full expression, where children can make a mess, run, jump and hide, where they can shout, whistle and explore the natural world. Particular emphasis should be placed on how playgrounds must encourage all forms of play. There is a critical need to develop a disposition for outdoor physical activities in our young children. Outdoor play should not become too academic and too teacher controlled.
Benefits of outdoor play. The chance to connect with the natural world; first hand experiences of life and growth; endless opportunities for creativity and imagination; improved fitness and physical development – the countless benefits of outdoor play have a real positive impact on children's lives. 