A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular disease. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing micro-organism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins or one of its surface proteins. The administration of vaccines is called vaccination. The effectiveness of vaccination has been widely studied and verified; for example, the influenza vaccine, the HPV vaccine, and the chicken pox vaccine.
Vaccines and Immunizations. ShareCompartir. Immunity: Protection from an infectious disease. If you are immune to a disease, you can be exposed to it without becoming infected. Vaccine: A product that stimulates a person’s immune system to produce immunity to a specific disease, protecting the person from that disease. Vaccination: The act of introducing a vaccine into the body to produce immunity to a specific disease. Immunization: A process by which a person becomes protected against a disease through vaccination. This term is often used interchangeably with vaccination or inoculation.
In this article. Immunizations, or vaccines as they're also known, safely and effectively use a small amount of a weakened or killed virus or bacteria or bits of lab-made protein that imitate the virus in order to prevent infection by that same virus or bacteria. 
Immunization is the process whereby a person is made immune or resistant to an infectious disease, typically by the administration of a vaccine. Vaccines stimulate the body’s own immune system to protect the person against subsequent infection or disease. Immunization is a proven tool for controlling and eliminating life-threatening infectious diseases and is estimated to avert between 2 and 3 million deaths each year.
Immunization is the process in which a disease carrying organism's part which is not infected with disease (usually sterile or dead) is purposefully put in your system so that your body can produce anti-bodies and protect itself from the real version of the disease. Split and merge into it. Answer by Rohan Chandra. Confidence votes 1.1K. Immunization, or immunisation, is the process by which an individual's immune system becomes fortified against an agent (known as the immunogen).
Information session with community women in Begene, a remote village near the town of Bla, Mali. Immunization works by tricking the body into believing it is experiencing a full-scale invasion by an infectious agent so that the immune system can fortify its defenses. 
A child being immunized against polio. Immunization, or immunisation, is the process by which an individual's immune system becomes fortified against an agent (known as the immunogen). The most important elements of the immune system that are improved by immunization are the T cells, B cells, and the antibodies B cells produce.
Immunity through immunization happens without the consequence of being ill and without the risk of potential life-threatening complications from the disease. Memory cells prevent re-infection when they encounter that disease again in the future. 