Dexamethasone is the generic form of the brand-name drug Decadron, which works on the immune system to help reduce itching, swelling, and inflammation. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid, a class of steroid hormone. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Decadron in 1958. At that time, Merck & Company made the drug. Now, several manufacturers offer dexamethasone under various brand names and formulations, including Decadron, Ozurdex, Maxidex, and Baycadron.
Dexamethasone is a steroid that prevents the release of substances in the body that cause inflammation. Dexamethasone is used to treat many different conditions such as allergic disorders, skin conditions, ulcerative colitis, arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, or breathing disorders. Dexamethasone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
It's used to treat a variety of health conditions, including allergies, arthritis, problems with blood or bone marrow, skin problems, and flare-ups of multiple sclerosis (MS). Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid, a class of steroid hormone. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Decadron in 1958. At that time, Merck & Company made the drug. Now, several manufacturers offer dexamethasone under various brand names and formulations, including Decadron, Ozurdex, Maxidex, and Baycadron.
Decadron is the trade name for dexamethasone. Dexasone and diodex or hexadrol are other names for dexamethasone. In some cases, health care professionals may use the trade name decadron or other names dexasone or diodex or hexadrol when referring to the generic drug name dexamethasone. 1 As an anti-inflammatory medication. 2  Dexamethasone relieves inflammation in various parts of the body. 3  It is used specifically to decrease swelling (edema), associated with tumors of the spine and brain, and to treat eye inflammation. 4  To treat or prevent allergic reactions.
Dexamethasone is a drug which is also known as a corticosteroid. This type of drug is derived from hormones present in the body like cortisol and aldosterone. This drug is said to have anti-inflammatory properties and has an effect on the number of white blood cells circulating in the blood. 
What this drug is used for: 1  As an anti-inflammatory medication. 2  Dexamethasone relieves inflammation in various parts of the body. 3  It is used specifically to decrease swelling (edema), associated with tumors of the spine and brain, and to treat eye inflammation. 4  To treat or prevent allergic reactions. 1 As an anti-inflammatory medication. 2  Dexamethasone relieves inflammation in various parts of the body. 3  It is used specifically to decrease swelling (edema), associated with tumors of the spine and brain, and to treat eye inflammation. 4  To treat or prevent allergic reactions.
Dexamethasone is a type of steroid medication. It is used in the treatment of rheumatic problems, a number of skin diseases, severe allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, croup, brain swelling, and along with antibiotics in tuberculosis, among others. Dexamethasone has anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects. Dexamethasone was first made in 1957. It is on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Dexamethasone is not expensive.
It is used to treat a number of different conditions, such as inflammation (swelling), severe allergies, adrenal problems, arthritis, asthma, blood or bone marrow problems, kidney problems, skin conditions, and flare-ups of multiple sclerosis. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid). It works on the immune system to help relieve swelling, redness, itching, and allergic reactions. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. Other uses (PubMed Health).
Dexamethasone provides relief for inflamed areas of the body. It is used to treat a number of different conditions, such as inflammation (swelling), severe allergies, adrenal problems, arthritis, asthma, blood or bone marrow problems, kidney problems, skin conditions, and flare-ups of multiple sclerosis. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid).