Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. Enumerated powers are those that the U.S. Constitution has specifically granted to the three branches of government -- the Executive, Judicial, and Legislative units of the government. 
Enumerated Powers. One way to limit the power of the new Congress under the Constitution was to be specific about what it could do. These enumerated, or listed, powers were contained in Article I, Section 8—the great laundry list of congressional chores.
The enumerated powers are a list of items found in Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution that set forth the authority of Congress. In summary, Congress may exercise the powers that the Constitution grants it, subject to the individual rights listed in the Bill of Rights. The enumerated powers listed in Article One include both exclusive federal powers, as well as concurrent powers that are shared with the states, and all of those powers are to be contrasted with reserved powers that only the states possess.
Enumerated power is a political power specifically delegated to a governmental branch by a constitution. It is a governmental power that is described in a foundation document such as a constitution. Enumerated Power is power given to the federal government by the terms of the U.S. Constitution such as the taxing power and the spending power granted to Congress. Enumerated power is also termed as express power.
Instructor: Mark Pearcy. The powers of the federal government that are specifically described in the Constitution are sometimes called 'delegated' or 'expressed powers,' but most often they are known as 'enumerated powers,' and they describe how a central government with three distinct branches can operate effectively. 
Enumerated powers. The enumerated powers are a list of items found in Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution that set forth the authoritative capacity of Congress. 
Section 8 begins the enumerated powers of the federal government delegated to Congress. The first is the power to tax and to spend the money raised by taxes, to provide for the nation’s defense and general welfare. This section was supplemented by the 16th amendment, which permitted Congress to levy an income tax. Article I of the Constitution defines the role of Congress, the federal legislative branch. Section 8 conta
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution lists the seventeen powers specifically enumerated to the Constitution. All of these things are important and the government's function in these areas was supposed to be strong, in order to protect the liberties of every American. Enumerated powers have an academic sound to them. It sounds like something you would read about in a history book. Simply put, enumerated powers are those powers specifically delegated to the Congress by the US Constitution. By the way, they are still there.
An enumerated power is a power of congress that is specifically  named in the constitution and given to the national government. Enumerated powers of the president are those specifically mentioned in the Constitution;   - Legislative powers (veto, pocket veto, signing legislation).   - Deliver the … State of the Union address.   - Appointment power (to a domestic office such as judges and ambassadors).   - Calling Congress into session.