Method: Preheat oven to 400°F. Toss Brussels sprouts with oil, salt and pepper on a rimmed baking sheet and roast, stirring once or twice, until deep golden brown, crisp outside and tender inside, 30 to 35 minutes. The leaves that are loose will be especially brown and crispy. Transfer to a bowl and serve. Rosemary Parmesan Brussels Sprouts
1 Reduce heat to medium, add smashed garlic and cook until lightly browned. 2  Remove garlic and discard. 3  Add sprouts cut side down, cover, and cook without stirring on medium-low heat 10-15 minutes or until tender when pierced with a knife. 1 Add sprouts cut side down, cover, and cook without stirring on medium-low heat 10-15 minutes or until tender when pierced with a knife. 2  The cut side of the sprouts should get nice and browned, with a nutty, buttery flavor enhanced by garlic. 3  Top with freshly grated parmesan and salt& pepper to tast
1 Remove garlic and discard. 2  Add sprouts cut side down, cover, and cook without stirring on medium-low heat 10-15 minutes or until tender when pierced with a knife. 3  The cut side of the sprouts should get nice and browned, with a nutty, buttery flavor enhanced by garlic. 1 Add sprouts cut side down, cover, and cook without stirring on medium-low heat 10-15 minutes or until tender when pierced with a knife. 2  The cut side of the sprouts should get nice and browned, with a nutty, buttery flavor enhanced by garlic. 3  Top with freshly grated parmesan and salt& pepper to taste
Add the Brussels sprouts to the boiling, salted water. Boil them uncovered for 5-10 minutes, until a knife inserted into the stem slides in easily. Keeping the pot uncovered allows the acids from the sprouts to evaporate. If you cover the pot, they'll fall right back in and make the sprouts a dull olive green. 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Cut off the brown ends of the Brussels sprouts and pull off any yellow outer leaves. Mix them in a bowl with the olive oil, salt and pepper. Pour them on a sheet pan and roast for 35 to 40 minutes, until crisp on the outside and tender on the inside. Shake the pan from time to time to brown the sprouts evenly. Sprinkle with more kosher salt (I like these salty like French fries), and serve immediately.
Directions. In a large skillet, heat oil over medium-high. Add brussels sprouts, season with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring frequently, until caramelized, 8 to 10 minutes. Add 1/3 cup water and cook until evaporated, about 2 minutes. Add lemon juice and toss to coat. Serve immediately.
Roast the Brussels sprouts for 35-40 minutes or until they're tender. After 30 minutes, start checking to see if they're tender by piercing them with a fork. Shake the pan from time to time to ensure that they cook more evenly. 3. Place the Brussels sprouts in the boiling water and cook them for 10-15 minutes. Cook them until they're tender -- when they're ready, you should be able to stick a fork in them.