Male urinary system. A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection in any part of your urinary system — your kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Most infections involve the lower urinary tract — the bladder and the urethra. Women are at greater risk of developing a UTI than men are. Infection limited to your bladder can be painful and annoying. However, serious consequences can occur if a UTI spreads to your kidneys.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. 1 (Sometimes lower UTI symptoms may be the only signs of kidney infection. 2  People at highest risk for such silent upper urinary tract infections include patients with diabetes, impaired immune systems, or a history of relapsing or recurring UTIs.). 3  An increased need to urinate at night.
Urinary tract infections in pets are common. A urinary tract infection is defined as an infection caused by bacteria, fungi, or parasites in the urinary tract, which includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Urinary tract infections may lead to increased frequency of urination, urgency, bloody urination, and inappropriate urination in your pet. Urinary tract infections occur more often in dogs and less often in cats. 1  Urinary tract infections are more common in dogs than cats.
Antibiotics are the most common pet medication used in urinary tract infections because of their ability to quickly reduce inflammation of the urinary tract. You will need a prescription from your veterinarian for all of these medications. Cephalexin. Primor. 
Nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin (Furadantin, Macrodantin) is an antibiotic that is used specifically for urinary tract infections as an alternative to TMP-SMX or a quinolone. Unlike many of the other drugs, however, it is usually taken for 7 - 10 days, even in cases of simple cystitis. Until recent years, the standard treatment for a UTI was 10 days of amoxicillin, a penicillin antibiotic, but it is now ineffective against E. coli bacteria in up to 25% of cases. A combination of amoxicillin-clavulanate (Augmentin) is sometimes given for drug-resistant infections.
Oral antibiotic medicine usually is effective in treating urinary tract infections (UTIs). In many cases, if the symptoms and urinalysis suggest a UTI, the doctor will start medicine without waiting for the results of a urine culture. The doctor may give intravenous (IV) antibiotics if your baby is: 
Considering taking medication to treat Bladder Infection Urinary Tract Infection? Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Bladder Infection Urinary Tract Infection. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below.
Antibiotics usually are the first line treatment for urinary tract infections. Which drugs are prescribed and for how long depend on your health condition and the type of bacteria found in your urine. Drugs commonly recommended for simple UTIs include: 1  Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim, Septra, others). 2  Fosfomycin (Monurol). 3  Nitrofurantoin (Macrodantin, Macrobid). 4  Ciprofloxacin (Cipro). 5  Levofloxacin (Levaquin). 6  Cephalexin (Keflex). 7  Ceftriaxone (Rocephin)
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a condition in which one or more parts of the urinary system (the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra) become infected. UTIs are the most common of all bacterial infections and can occur at any time in the life of an individual. 1 (Sometimes lower UTI symptoms may be the only signs of kidney infection. 2  People at highest risk for such silent upper urinary tract infections include patients with diabetes, impaired immune systems, or a history of relapsing or recurring UTIs.). 3  An increased need to urinate at night.