Astaxanthin is a powerful, naturally occurring carotenoid pigment that's found in certain marine plants and animals. Often called the king of the carotenoids, astaxanthin is recognized as being one of the most powerful antioxidants found in nature. It is of particular significance, because unlike some other types of antioxidants, astaxanthin never becomes a pro-oxidant in the body so it can never cause harmful oxidation.
Under the Sea. Fish oil isn't the only thing from the ocean that can improve function in the human body. Astaxanthin is a carotenoid pigment that’s found in trout, microalgae, yeast, and shrimp, among other sea creatures. It is most commonly found in Pacific salmon, and is what gives the fish its pinkish color. An antioxidant, astaxanthin is said to have many health benefits. 
It's a little-known carotenoid called astaxanthin, which is now believed to be the most potent antioxidant nature has to offer. Scientists long ago discovered that a class of naturally occurring pigments called carotenoids held powerful antioxidant properties that are crucial for your health. However, this powerful carotenoid is harder to come by. Natural Astaxanthin is in a League of Its Own Natural astaxanthin is produced only by the microalgae Haematococcus pluvialis when its water supply dries up, forcing it to protect itself from ultraviolet radiation.
Astaxanthin (pronounced asta-ZAN-thin) is a naturally-occurring carotenoid found in algae, shrimp, lobster, crab and salmon. Carotenoids are pigment colors that occur in nature and support good health. Beta carotene, for example, is orange. Astaxanthin, dubbed the king of the carotenoids is red, and is responsible for turning salmon, crab, lobster and shrimp flesh pink. In the animal kingdom, astaxanthin is found in the highest concentration in the muscles of salmon.
In this article. Astaxanthin is a carotenoid, a chemical found naturally in certain plants and animals. A type of algae makes astaxanthin. This algae is used as a source for the astaxanthin in supplements. Some types of seafood also contain astaxanthin. 
Astaxanthin is a reddish pigment that belongs to a group of chemicals called carotenoids. It occurs naturally in certain algae and causes the pink or red color in salmon, trout, lobster, shrimp, and other seafood. Astaxanthin is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth as a supplement. Astaxanthin has been used safely by itself in doses of 4 to 40 mg daily for up to 12 weeks. It has been used safely in combination with other carotenoids, vitamins and minerals at 4 mg daily for up to 12 months.
Astaxanthin is part of the carotenoid family, an organic pigment found in algae (Haematococcus Pluvialis), bacteria and plants. Carotenoids are what gives flowers, fruits and vegetables their vibrant colors. 
Astaxanthin is a carotenoid and a powerful antioxidant. Our bodies do not synthesize astaxanthin, so it can only be obtained from food or supplementation. Astaxanthin does not convert into vitamin A – good news, because it means that supplementation will not lead to vitamin A overdose and toxicity. Because of a molecular structure that is different than that of other carotenoid antioxidants (beta-and alpha-carotene, lycopene, lutein and zeaxanthin), astaxanthin is a more
Astaxanthin is found in its highest natural concentration in wild Pacific sockeye salmon. It is also found in krill, algae, red trout, shrimp, crab, and lobster. Its vibrant red pigmentation is what helps give these marine animals and plants their intense coloring. Often called the king of the carotenoids, astaxanthin is recognized as being one of the most powerful antioxidants found in nature. It is of particular significance, because unlike some other types of antioxidants, astaxanthin never becomes a pro-oxidant in the body so it can never cause harmful oxidation.