Introduction. Strategic communication is an umbrella term to describe the activities of disciplines including public relations, management communication, and advertising. However, strategic communication is also increasingly recognized as a developing subfield within communication. Defines strategic communication as “the purposeful use of communication by an organization to fulfill its mission.” Identifies key concepts, including audience analysis, goal setting, and message strategy. The term strategic has been most often used in the context of management and decision-making power.
Public relations is a central aspect of strategic communication and involves the study of how organizations influence opinions and the behavior of key publics (e.g., employees, consumers, government, community, media) and how they try to respond and adapt to the concerns of these publics. In addition to those required by the Global Miami Plan, students study communication theory and research, media theory and practice, comparative media studies, media aesthetics.
What strategic communication is, what it involves, and what it accomplishes is a hot topic of discussion in myriad channels. I’m thrilled that upwards of 375 people – fellow professionals all – have joined our new LinkedIn Group: National Summit on Strategic Communications. (Join us at http://linkd.in/M7BiXF). 
Strategic Communication. In addition to those required by the Global Miami Plan, students study communication theory and research, media theory and practice, comparative media studies, media aesthetics. Many students take off-campus internships in media-related industries
Definition of strategic communication. Communication is strategic when it is completely consistent with a corporation’s mission, vision, values and is able to enhance the strategic positioning and competitiveness of the organisation. 
The ABCs of Strategic Communications. This article details the process of designing a plan for strategic communications as discussed in The Jossey-Bass Guide to Strategic Communications for Nonprofits, written by Kathy Bonk, Henry Griggs and Emily Tynes, 1999. A communications plan is an important part of an organization's daily operation. 
Share |. The term “strategic communications” has become popular over the last two decades. It means infusing communications efforts with an agenda and a master plan. Typically, that master plan involves promoting the brand of an organization, urging people to do specific actions, or advocating particular legislation. For another view, this is a timeline of the number of occurrences of “strategic communication(s)” in web pages indexed by Google. In this frequency graph, use of the phrase takes off more in 2001. Google’s algorithm looks at the dates in context.
How to Write a Strategic Communications Plan. Strategic communications helps an organization share a clearly defined message with everyone involved with that organization -- internally and externally. It is an intentional process that looks at what each audience within the group needs to hear from you. Learn how to write a strategic communications plan so that your staff and customers not only stay informed, but stay engaged as well.