RA treatment is most successful when there is close cooperation between the doctor, patient, and family members. Two classes of medications are used in treating rheumatoid arthritis: fast-acting first-line drugs  and slow-acting second-line drugs (also referred to as disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs or DMARDs). The first-line drugs, such as aspirin and cortisone (corticosteroids), are used to reduce pain and inflammation. The slow-acting second-line drugs, such as methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall, Otrexup) and hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil), promote disease remission and prevent progressive joint destruction
Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs for Arthritis. These drugs, known as DMARDs, are used to manage the pain of rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune arthritis conditions. Medications in this class include: 1  Arava (leflunomide). 2  Trexall and Rheumatrex (methotrexate). 3  Plaquenil (hydroxychloroquine). 4  Cuprimine and Depen (penicillamine). NSAIDS, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, are commonly prescribed for arthritis pain and other symptoms. They are available over-the-counter as aspirin (such as Bayer), naproxen (such as Aleve), and ibuprofen (such as Motrin).
Typical medications used for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis include: 1  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 2  These medications, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve), reduce pain and swelling. 3  Stronger NSAIDs are available by prescription. Doctors use these medications when NSAIDs alone fail to relieve symptoms of joint pain and swelling. They may be taken in combination with NSAIDs and are used to slow the progress of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Commonly used DMARDs for children include methotrexate (Trexall) and leflunomide (Arava).
There are different drugs used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Some are used primarily to ease the symptoms of RA; others are used to slow or stop the course of the disease and to inhibit structural damage. 
The drugs used to treat rheumatoid arthritis can be divided into three groups: 1  Drugs that decrease pain and inflammation. 2  These products include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), such as ibuprofen (Motrin®), naproxen (Aleve®), and other similar products. 1 Many of these drugs were first used to treat other medical conditions – such as malaria, transplant rejection, cancer, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease – but have now also found a role in treating rheumatoid arthritis. 2  DMARDs are used both alone and in combination
About NSAIDs. NSAIDs are used to relieve pain and inflammation associated with arthritis and related conditions. They are also have many uses outside of arthritis treatment, such as lowering fevers, easing tooth aches, and relieving muscle aches from strenuous physical activity or the flu. About Analgesics. Analgesics are drugs designed specifically to relieve pain. There are several types of analgesics: acetaminophen (Tylenol), which is available without a prescription, and a variety of opioid analgesics, which are available only with a prescription.
The drugs used to treat rheumatoid arthritis can be divided into three groups: 1  Drugs that decrease pain and inflammation. 2  Drugs called disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) . 3  Biologics. 1 Many of these drugs were first used to treat other medical conditions – such as malaria, transplant rejection, cancer, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease – but have now also found a role in treating rheumatoid arthritis. 2  DMARDs are used both alone and in combination
Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doctors use these medications when NSAIDs alone fail to relieve symptoms of joint pain and swelling. They may be taken in combination with NSAIDs and are used to slow the progress of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Commonly used DMARDs for children include methotrexate (Trexall) and leflunomide (Arava).
Considering taking medication to treat Rheumatoid Arthritis? Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Rheumatoid Arthritis. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. 