The oldest fossilized evidence of animals has been unearthed in Oman and reveals that tiny sea sponges were abundant 635 million years ago, long before most of the planet's other major animal groups evolved, according to a new analysis.
Cambrian fossils are only known from the Cobb valley and Springs Junction (west Nelson). These, the oldest-known New Zealand fossils (508 million years ago [Ma]), include sponges, brachiopods, molluscs, conodonts and trilobites within limestone.
Human fossils found 38 years ago in Africa are 65,000 years older than previously thought, a new study sayspushing the dawn of modern humans back 35,000 years. New dating techniques indicate that the fossils are 195,000 years old.
However, one particular group of bacteria, the cyanobacteria or blue-green algae, have left a fossil record that extends far back into the Precambrian-the oldest cyanobacteria-like fossils known are nearly 3.5 billion years old, among the oldest fossils currently known.
Like horseshoe crabs, because of their age, stromatolites are considered living fossils.. The oldest known fossil of stromatolites is almost five times older than the oldest fossil of a multicellular organism, which dates back to about 600 million years ago.
Fossils of microbe colonies currently are evidence of the first known life on Earth, dating back to 3.5 billion years ago. Thereafter came a long period with little major development. The new analysis aside, fossils of the earliest multicellular organisms had been dated to 565 million to 543 m
When it comes to fossils, specimens like Sue the Tyrannosaurus rex grab much of the attention. Not only is Sue the most complete T. rex ever found, she's also a staggering 67 million years old. Compared to the oldest fossils ever found, though, Sue is the new kid on the block [source: Field Museum ]. Some of those ancient fossils, known as stromatolites, are more than 50 times older than Sue -- 3.45 billion years old, to be exact [source: University of Munster ].
Scientists have found fossil evidence of ancient microbial communities that lived 3.5 billion years ago. The new fossils, described in the journal Astrobiology, may be among the most ancient fossil life forms ever found. This is one of the, or the, oldest fossil