Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ailish and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Ailish and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Popularity of the Name Ailish. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Ailish is not popular in other countries all over the world.
The name Alice is a form of an Old French spelling of a greatly contracted version of the German name Adalheidis. Alice was considered a distinct name when it was revived in the 19th century. It is a form of Adelaide. The name is derived from the Germanic elements adel meaning noble and heid meaning kind or sort. The name became popular through the books of Lewis Carrol, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865) and Alice Through the Looking Glass (1872). Ailish is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ai-lish. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6174 in baby name popularity for girls with 20 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
Personal experiences with the name Ailish: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Ailish: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Ailish: | Edit. Anglicized form of Aili­ailí. s 
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Ailish. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Ailish, spread the love and share this with your friends. Popularity of the Name Ailish. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Ailish is not popular in other countries all over the world.
Meaning of Ailish. Irish name. In Irish, the name Ailish means-noble, kind.The name Ailish originated as an Irish name. The name Ailish is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-noble, kind. 
Ailish is a Irish form of the name Alice. The name Alice is a form of an Old French spelling of a greatly contracted version of the German name Adalheidis (possibly Adalheidis to Adelaide to Adeliz to Alice or Adalheidis to Adelais to Aalis to Alice). Ailish is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ai-lish. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6174 in baby name popularity for girls with 20 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
Ailish-Meaning of Ailish. Tweet. [ syll. ai-lis(h) , ail-i- sh ] The baby girl name Ailish is of Germanic origin and it is used mainly in Irish. Ailish is a variant of Alice. See also the related form, Ailis (Ailís). Irish ailish is not popular as a baby girl. Name it is not listed within the top. 1000 among the family of girl names directly related To, Ailish alice was the most frequently used in. 2012 [ syll. ai-lis(h) , ail-i- sh ] The baby girl name Ailish is of Germanic origin and it is used mainly in Irish. Ailish is a variant of Alice. See also the related form, Ailis (Ailís). irish
Ailish Name Meaning. The meaning of Ailish is “Form of ELIZABETH”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Popularity of the Name Ailish. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Ailish is not popular in other countries all over the world.