On the Interpals tool bar, click Search. Use the tools to find available friends overseas. Using the search results, select the desired friend and click on their profile. On their page, click Add to friends. If they accept your friend request, then you have made a friend.
Log on to Facebook with your new profile. In the lower left corner, click Applications and then click Groups. Near the top of the page, there will be a text box reading Search for Groups. In this text box, type in the name of the country or city where you would like to make friends. Hit the enter/return button.
Some steps you can take to find a job overseas: 1  Search job boards before you leave. 2  Contact expat groups before you leave. 3  Bring copies of your resume, recommendations, and any other professional certificates.
Log on to Interpals with your new profile. On the Interpals tool bar, click Search. Use the tools to find available friends overseas. Using the search results, select the desired friend and click on their profile. On their page, click Add to friends. If they accept your friend request, then you have made a friend.
Contact other relatives and friends for information. Try to obtain a most recent address or any physical address at all, an email address, full name, birth date and social security number. Perform a simple online search for the person you are attempting to locate overseas. If you are a member of a social networking site such as Facebook, MySpace or Twitter, try performing a search for the person using their first and last names. If you know the person’s email address, try performing a search this way.
With new social networking sites and numerous other online sites promising to help you find lost friends and loved ones, locating people overseas or within your own country is much easier than when such technology did not exist. Other People Are Reading.
Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Locating people overseas is no different than locating people within your own country. Whether you are attempting to locate someone from your past, or a relative or friend who is travelling abroad, use all the information you have on that person to help in your search.