1 Some autoimmune diseases, like diabetes and thyroid disease, can affect the body's ability to make substances it needs to function. 2  With diabetes, insulin injections are needed to regulate blood sugar. 3  Thyroid hormone replacement restores thyroid hormone levels in people with underactive thyroid. 1 Replace vital substances the body can no longer make on its own. 2  Some autoimmune diseases, like diabetes and thyroid disease, can affect the body's ability to make substances it needs to function. 3
Hashimoto’s disease is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It also is called Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (theye-royd-EYET-uhss). The thyroid is a small gland in the front of the neck. The thyroid makes hormones called T3 and T4 that regulate how the body uses energy. An underactive thyroid causes every function of the body to slow down, such as heart rate, brain function, and the rate your body turns food into energy. Hashimoto’s disease is the most common cause of an underactive thyroid. It is closely related to Graves’ disease, another autoimmune disease affecting
General Discussion. Autoimmune thyroiditis (AT), also known as Hashimoto's disease, is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the thyroid gland that is caused by abnormal blood antibodies and white blood cells that mistakenly attack and damage healthy thyroid cells. 
A Little Gland with Big Problems. Hashimoto’s is an autoimmune disease of the thyroid. This little butterfly-shaped ball of endocrine activity happens to be rather important – it controls metabolism, female hormones, circadian rhythms and energy levels. Pretty much, as one specialist told me, everything that makes you feel good about being you. Quitting sugar, quite frankly, is mandatory if you have an autoimmune disease. Sugar causes leaky gut (often cited as the precursor to autoimmune disease). Sugar inflames and mucks with the entire endocrine system and insulin spikes destroy the thyroid gland. In addition to the damage caused by insulin, a compromised thyroid gland will slow the removal of insulin from the bloodstream
Autoimmune thyroid diseases, such as autoimmune thyroiditis, which is also known as Hashimoto’s thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis, are conditions in which the immune system attacks the body’s own thyroid gland. Autoimmune thyroid diseases are generally hereditary in origin, although environmental factors, such as infection, certain drugs, and iodine consumption, can play a role in their progression. Autoimmune thyroiditis is more common in women than in men, and it primarily affects people between 40 and 60 years of age.
This is actually a post I’ve been busting to write for a while. I first quit sugar because of my autoimmune (AI) disease. I have Hashimoto’s. And a big part of why I’ve stuck to the sugar-free program is that it’s made such a damn big difference. 
A note from Sarah about Autoimmune Disease and Sugar: This is actually a post I’ve been busting to write for a while. And I really rather like that I’m finally writing it in Thyroid Awareness Month. As many of you know, I first quit sugar because of my autoimmune (AI) disease. I have Hashimotos. 
Hashimoto's thryoiditis is an autoimmune condition that is a common cause of hypothyroidism. In Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the body mounts an immune reaction against its own thyroid gland tissue, leading to inflammation of the gland (thyroiditis). 1 Hashimoto's thyroiditis is caused by an autoimmune process that causes inflammation of the thyroid gland. 2  Symptoms of Hashimoto's thyroiditis are those of hypothyroidism and include. 3  feeling cold, 4  depression, 5  dry skin, 6  constipation, 7  fatigue, 8  sleepiness, and. 9  weight gain.
Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a condition caused by inflammation of the thyroid gland. It is an autoimmune disease, which means that the body inappropriately attacks the thyroid gland-as if it was foreign tissue. The underlying cause of the autoimmune process remains unknown. 1 Hashimoto's thyroiditis is caused by an autoimmune process that causes inflammation of the thyroid gland. 2  Symptoms of Hashimoto's thyroiditis are those of hypothyroidism and include. 3  feeling cold, 4  depression, 5  dry skin, 6  constipation, 7  fatigue, 8  sleepiness, and. 9  weight gain.