unessential. adjective dispensable, extrinsic, immaterial, inapposite, incidental, inconsiderable, insignificant, irrelevant, minor, needless, negligible, nonessential, of no account, of no consequence, secondary, superfluous, trifling, trivial, uncalled-for, unimportant, unnecessary, unneeded.
I don't know what you would call the essential, or what you mean by the unessential , said Madame Ratignolle, cheerfully; but a woman who would give her life for her children could do no more than that--your Bible tells you so. The Awakening and Selected Short Stories by Chopin, Kate View in context.
1 In the same way, we have a low tolerance for what we perceive to be excessive or needless paperwork or anything else that appears unessential to the mission. 2  Royal Mail bosses warned customers against posting unessential items as they battled to cope with a huge backlog of letters.
Example sentences. 1  In the same way, we have a low tolerance for what we perceive to be excessive or needless paperwork or anything else that appears unessential to the mission. 2  Royal Mail bosses warned customers against posting unessential items as they battled to cope with a huge backlog of letters.
I don't know what you would call the essential, or what you mean by the unessential , said Madame Ratignolle, cheerfully; but a woman who would give her life for her children could do no more than that--your Bible tells you so. The Awakening and Selected Short Stories by Chopin, Kate View in context.
These past, if any pass, the void profound Of unessential Night receives him next Wide gaping, and with utter loss of being Threatens him, plung'd in that abortive gulf. Paradise Lost by Milton, John View in context.
inessential. adj. 1. not necessary. n. 2. anything that is not essential.
Adj. 1. unessential-not basic or fundamental. inessential. dispensable-capable of being dispensed with or done without; dispensable items of personal property. expendable-suitable to be expended. unimportant-not important; a relatively unimportant feature of the system; the question seems unimportant.