As a homeowner, if the bank takes the home back, you do not have the same 90 days...but will be offered a cash for keys settlement to move in 30 days...longer can be negotiated. As a tenant and the lender took back the property, you may be able to stay in the home until they sell the home or they may offer re-location funds for you to move (a form of cash for keys because the cash for keys is only available for homeowners). Tenants fall into a special category when it comes to foreclosures.
If the property is not sold to a new owner at the foreclosure sale (that is, nobody makes an acceptable bid), your lender will end up with title to the property. If this happens, you could have as many as three—and as many as six—months longer to remain in your home payment free. It depends on a few factors: If Someone Buys the House. If, at the foreclosure sale, your house is sold to a new owner, that new owner will likely want possession of the property as soon as possible. You may receive a termination notice days or weeks after the auction or sale, just to get the process moving.
In Alabama you have ten days after the foreclosure to move out in order to preserve your legal rights. If you move out within that ten day period Alabama law gives you the right to buy back the house for the amount that you owed at the time of the foreclosure. This is called a right of redemption. If you are not interested in trying to buy the house back or are unable to do so then you may have longer
Once your house goes to Sheriff's Sale (also referred to as the foreclosure auction) you have a 6 month redemption period. During that time, you are still the owner of the house and can continue to live there. Att the end of the redemption period you will be contacted by the bank to move out. If you have not moved out at the end of the six months, the bank will serve you with a notice of eviction. And your foreclosure will be complete. However, during your six month redemption, you still have the right to sell your house on a short sale. If you have not talked to any one is who knowledgeable about short sales, I highly suggest that you do that immediately.
From start to finish, foreclosure can take many months. The process ends with an auction sale and a demand telling the homeowner to leave the property. The notice sets out how long you have to leave, typically between five and 30 days. If you don't leave by the deadline, the new owner can get an eviction order and the sheriff will forcibly remove you from the home. Eviction After Foreclosure. After the public seller the homeowner receives a notice to vacate the property within, typically, five and 30 days. If you do not leave within that time time frame, a court may order an eviction notice. This allows the sheriff to physically remove you from the property
Foreclosure is a terrible situation to face and I have helped many people in the past few years and written articles about the best ways to prevent a foreclosure. However, it is up to you to start preparing for the loss of your home once it becomes clear that the foreclosure will happen. There comes a time when you have to walk away responsibly. Tags: Alabama, foreclosure, home, how long do i have to move out, move out, redemption. If you move out within that ten day period Alabama law gives you the right to buy back the house for the amount that you owed at the time of the foreclosure. This is called a right of
Sometimes, if the lender buys the property back, they will not move to evict until a new buyer comes along. I have seen people stay in the house for 10 months! However, that is not the rule or common. Answer You should definitely have your plans (and money to move) in place once the home has gone to foreclosure. The long answer is if you have not, then I am assuming your home is in default, … or is soon to be in default, but a foreclosure action by the bank has not begun yet. Banks do not want to own your home or pay attorneys or go through a sale.
In some instances, panicked homeowners leave their home after missing a few mortgage payments or once a foreclosure is initiated. However, you have the legal right to remain in your home until the foreclosure process is completed. This process can take a few months or, in some cases, as much as a year (or even longer in states with a large backlog of foreclosures, such as Florida and New York). Read on to find out more about when you have to leave your home as a result of foreclosure.