Bid Rigging. Whenever business contracts are awarded by means of soliciting competitive bids, coordination among bidders undermines the bidding process and can be illegal. Bid rigging can take many forms, but one frequent form is when competitors agree in advance which firm will win the bid. For instance, competitors may agree to take turns being the low bidder, or sit out of a bidding round, or provide unacceptable bids to cover up a bid-rigging scheme.
When competitors collude, prices are inflated and the customer is cheated. Price fixing, bid rigging, and other forms of collusion are illegal and subject to criminal prosecution by the U.S. Department of Justice, as well as civil enforcement actions by the Office of the Connecticut Attorney General. The agreement itself is the violation. Price fixing, bid rigging, and other collusive agreements can be established by direct evidence, such as the testimony of a participant, or by circumstantial evidence, such as suspicious bid patterns, travel and expense reports, telephone records, and business diary entries.
In Canada, it is an indictable criminal offense under section 45 of the Competition Act. Bid rigging is considered a form of price fixing and is illegal in both the United States (s.1 Sherman Act) and Canada (s.47 Competition Act). In the United States, agreements to fix, raise, lower, stabilize, or otherwise set a price are illegal per se.
Price fixing and bid rigging occur when competitors agree to set prices for goods or services. An effective agreement among sellers results in prices that are artificially high. Artificially high prices can damage government or business buyers. Buyers lose the ability to get the best price that results when there is competition among sellers. The District of Columbia has competition laws that, like federal laws, prohibit price fixing and bid rigging, along with other anticompetitive behavior.
United States antitrust law is a collection of federal and state government laws, which regulates the conduct and organization of business corporations, generally to promote fair competition for the benefit of consumers. 
Like price fixing agreements, the Sherman Act makes all bid rigging schemes automatically illegal. “Bid rigging” refers to an agreement between competing bidders for a contract job. Competing bidders will agree to reduce competition in the bidding process by any number of methods, including submitting artificially high bids or having one firm agree not to submit a bid at all.
Price Fixing. Price fixing is an agreement (written, verbal, or inferred from conduct) among competitors that raises, lowers, or stabilizes prices or competitive terms. Generally, the antitrust laws require that each company establish prices and other terms on its own, without agreeing with a competitor. Accordingly, price fixing is a major concern of government antitrust enforcement. A plain agreement among competitors to fix prices is almost always illegal, whether prices are fixed at a minimum, maximum, or within some range.
DEFINITION of 'Bid Rigging'. A scheme in which businesses collude so that a competing business can secure a contract for goods or services at a pre-determined price. Bid rigging stifles free-market competition, as the rigged price will be unfairly high. The Sherman Act of 1890 makes bid rigging illegal under U.S. antitrust law
In the United States, bid rigging is a felony criminal offense under Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Even so, bid rigging is still rampant in the construction industry, auto sale auctions, and foreclosed home auctions. In Canada, it is an indictable criminal offence under Section 47 of the Competition Act. Bid rigging is an illegal practice under the criminal or competition laws of most developed countries. Depending on the jurisdiction, it is punishable by fines, imprisonment or both. Bid rigging fraud can be resisted naturally by either side choosing to not participate in the auction.