Thyroid conditions include hypothyroidism, or under-active thyroid, hyperthyroidism, or over-active thyroid, thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer. A healthy diet may help to improve your health and thyroid function.
People with hypothyroidism may want to consider minimizing their intake of gluten, a protein found in foods processed from wheat, barley, rye, and other grains, says Ruth Frechman, RDN, a dietitian and nutritionist in the Los Angeles area and a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
Along with taking your thyroid medication, you can bolster thyroid function with a well-balanced diet that includes lots of produce and protein, among other healthy foods, says Gregory B. Dodell, MD, an endocrinologist in New York City. The next time you're at the grocery store, look for these seven nutrient-rich foods.
Summary: As iodine is required for thyroid hormone production, ensure your diet contains foods naturally rich in iodine (but if you have Hashimoto’s then check first with your doctor). Unless you are pregnant or breastfeeding, iodine supplements are unnecessary and potentially dangerous.
Whole Grains. Constipation is a common symptom of hypothyroidism. Whole-grain foods such as cereal, bread, pasta, and rice are high in nutrients in addition to fiber, which can help with bowel regularity. However, fiber can interfere with synthetic thyroid hormones, cautions Turner.
Kale is a goitrogen – it prevents your thyroid from getting enough iodine. As long as you're getting enough iodine in your diet, goitrogens shouldn’t be a problem for you. But if you’re low to begin with, kale may cause thyroid problems. Cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts may have the same effect.
Seafood. Fish, shrimp, and seaweed are great sources of iodine. You need iodine for a healthy thyroid, but avoid kelp if you have hyperthyroidism, when your thyroid makes too much of the hormone that controls your metabolism. Kelp is high in iodine and may make it worse.
Iodine combines with the amino acid tyrosine to produce thyroid hormones. Fish, dairy, oats, sesame seeds, bananas, avocados, and almonds are all good sources of tyrosine. Some goitrogenic foods such as mustard greens, soybeans, spinach, and cabbage are also high in tyrosine.