Coronary microvascular disease (MVD) is heart disease that affects the tiny coronary (heart) arteries. In coronary MVD, the walls of the heart's tiny arteries are damaged or diseased. Coronary MVD is different from traditional coronary heart disease (CHD), also called coronary artery disease. Studies have shown that women are more likely than men to have coronary MVD. Many researchers think the disease is caused by a drop in estrogen levels during menopause combined with traditional heart disease risk factors. Both men and women who have coronary MVD often have diabetes or high blood pressure.
Coronary microvascular disease (sometimes called small artery disease or small vessel disease) is heart disease that affects the walls and inner lining of tiny coronary artery blood vessels that branch off from the larger coronary arteries. Women more frequently develop coronary microvascular disease and it occurs particularly in younger women; however, men and women who have coronary MVD often have diabetes, high blood pressure or a family history of cardiomyopathy.
Microvascular disease: Disease of the finer blood vessels in the body, including the capillaries. In contrast to macrovascular disease. The microvascular complications of diabetes such as neuropathy can lead to loss of sensation and the development of foot ulcers. 
About diabetes. Diabetes complications are divided into microvascular (due to damage to small blood vessels) and macrovascular (due to damage to larger blood vessels). Etiology. Diabetic kidney disease is also caused by damage to small blood vessels in the kidneys. This can cause kidney failure, and eventually lead to death. In developed countries, this is a leading cause of dialysis and kidney transplant.
Microangiopathy (or microvascular disease, or small vessel disease) is an angiopathy (i.e.disease of blood vessels) affecting small blood vessels in the body. It can be contrasted to macroangiopathy. Small vessel coronary disease is a type of coronary heart disease (CHD) that affects the heart's arterioles and capillaries. Small vessel coronary disease is also known as cardiac syndrome X, microvascular dysfunction, non-obstructive coronary disease, or microvascular angina.
Macrovascular disease is a disease of any large (macro) blood vessels in the body. It is a disease of the large blood vessels, including the coronary arteries, the aorta, and the sizable arteries in the brain and in the limbs. This sometimes occurs when a person has had diabetes for a long time. Fat and blood clots build up in the large blood vessels and stick to the vessel walls.
Complications of diabetes. Diabetes complications are divided into microvascular (due to damage to small blood vessels) and macrovascular (due to damage to larger blood vessels). Etiology. Diabetic kidney disease is also caused by damage to small blood vessels in the kidneys. This can cause kidney failure, and eventually lead to death. In developed countries, this is a leading cause of dialysis and kidney transplant.
Definition. The microvascular complications of diabetes encompass long-term complications of diabetes affecting small blood vessels. These classically have included retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy. Retinopathy is divided into two main categories: nonproliferative retinopathy and proliferative retinopathy. 