Chiropractic: A system of diagnosis and treatment based on the concept that the nervous system coordinates all of the body's functions, and that disease results from a lack of normal nerve function. 
Medical Definition of CHIROPRACTIC. : a system of therapy which holds that disease results from a lack of normal nerve function and which employs manipulation and specific adjustment of body structures (as the spinal column). — chiropractic adjective. — chi·ro·prac·tor \-tər\ noun
Chiropractic is a form of alternative medicine that focuses on diagnosis and treatment of mechanical disorders of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine, under the belief that these disorders affect general health via the nervous system. Chiropractic is a form of alternative medicine which focuses on manipulation of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine. Its founder, D.D. Palmer, called it a science of healing without drugs.
The main chiropractic treatment technique involves manual therapy, especially manipulation of the spine, other joints, and soft tissues, but may also include exercises and health and lifestyle counseling. Chiropractic is a form of alternative medicine which focuses on manipulation of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine. Its founder, D.D. Palmer, called it a science of healing without drugs.
Full Definition of CHIROPRACTIC. — chiropractic adjective. — chi·ro·prac·tor \-tər\ noun. See chiropractic defined for English-language learners. See chiropractic defined for kids. : a system of therapy which holds that disease results from a lack of normal nerve function and which employs manipulation and specific adjustment of body structures (as the spinal column). — chiropractic adjective. — chi·ro·prac·tor \-tər\ noun
Back and neck pain are the specialties of chiropractic but many chiropractors treat ailments other than musculoskeletal issues. There is a range of opinions among chiropractors: some believed that treatment should be confined to the spine, or back and neck pain; others disagreed. Chiropractic is a form of alternative medicine which focuses on manipulation of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine. Its founder, D.D. Palmer, called it a science of healing without drugs.
Find a Chiropractor in. Spine-health's growing. Chiropractic Directory. A chiropractor usually focuses on diagnosing and treating back and neck pain and is considered by many to be a type of primary care physician as he or she is often the first doctor a patient will visit when experiencing back pain. A chiropractor, also known as a doctor of chiropractic or a chiropractic physician, diagnoses and treats patients whose health problems are associated with the body's muscular, nervous, and skeletal systems, especially the spine.
Definition. Chiropractic is from Greek words meaning done by hand. It is grounded in the principle that the body can heal itself when the skeletal system is correctly aligned and the nervous system is functioning properly. Chiropractic treatment is covered by many insurance plans and in 2004, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs announced full inclusion of chiropractic care for veterans. It has become well-accepted treatment for acute pain and problems of the spine, including lower back pain and whiplash.
For medical subluxations, see Subluxation. In chiropractic, vertebral subluxation is a set of signs and symptoms of the spinal column. Those chiropractors who assert this concept (specifically, straight chiropractors) also add a visceral component to the definition. Chiropractors maintain that a vertebral subluxation complex is a dysfunctional biomechanical spinal segment which is fixated.