Please sign in to vote on this Guide. Most of the wood furniture in my store is made with rubberwood and many don't know or are unfamiliar with this type of wood. So I am creating this guide to explain what it is and where it is from. Hope this helps when deciding on a purchase. Rubberwood is often the most misunderstood species of wood in the furniture industry. The name rubberwood invokes a variety of misconceptions as to it’s features and to it’s durability. Rubberwood (also called Parawood in Thailand) is the standard common name for the timber of Hevea brasiliensis
Rubberwood has a dense grain that is easily controlled in the kiln drying process. Rubber-wood has very little shrinkage making it one of the more stable construction materials available for furniture, toys and kitchen accessories. It is easily worked, and takes on stains uniformly. Rubberwood is susceptible to fungal and insect attack that limited its use in the past. However in the 1980s, the development of chemical treatment processes allowed the wood to be more widely used for furniture making and frames.
Rubberwood is a light-colored medium-density tropical hardwood obtained from the Para pará rubber (Tree hevea), brasiliensis usually from trees grown in rubber. plantations Rubberwood is susceptible to fungal and insect attack that limited its use in the past. However in the 1980s, the development of chemical treatment processes allowed the wood to be more widely used for furniture making and frames.
Rubberwood is also known as plantation hardwood, parawood, or Hevea for the genus that the tree belongs to. In 2002, the Malaysian Ministry of Primary Industries marketed it under the name Malaysian Oak. Rubberwood is susceptible to fungal and insect attack that limited its use in the past. However in the 1980s, the development of chemical treatment processes allowed the wood to be more widely used for furniture making and frames.
Rubberwood is actually a member of the maple family, a true hardwood! It is very durable, has little chance of warping or cracking. It stands up to use and continues to look great. Rubberwood is one of the more durable lumbers used in today's home furnishings. This wood is therefore eco-friendly in the sense that we are now using what was going as waste. You are buying a solid hardwood piece of furniture when it is made from Rubberwood. It will give you years of pleasure at an affordable price. Be sure to check my store and listings for fin
Rubberwood is commonly advertised as an environmentally friendly wood, as it makes use of plantation trees that have already served a useful function. Rubberwood is susceptible to fungal and insect attack that limited its use in the past. However in the 1980s, the development of chemical treatment processes allowed the wood to be more widely used for furniture making and frames.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Rubberwood is taken from Hevea brasiliensis, also called the rubber tree or Para rubber tree. These trees are cultivated for their natural latex sap, but they also yield a high quality wood with a tight grain that can be used in a wide range of applications. Despite the name, rubberwood does not bounce or stretch; the name is a reference to the parent tree. In addition to being beautiful, this wood is also an ecologically sustainable timber, making it popular with people who are concerned about the health of the world's forests. Rubberwood is a waste by-product of mono-culture which is destroying our environmental diversity! The wood really isn't that interesting in grain or color-it is all of the toxic finishes (stains, paints, polyurethanes) that they put on it that make it somewhat appealing to consumers.