PSA blood test. The prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test is used mainly to try to find prostate cancer early in men without symptoms (see Prostate Cancer Prevention and Early Detection). But it is also one of the first tests done in men who have symptoms that might be caused by prostate cancer. Most healthy men have PSA levels under 4 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The chance of having prostate cancer goes up as the PSA level goes up.
Most men with elevated PSA levels have noncancerous prostate enlargement, which is a normal part of aging. Conversely, low levels of PSA in the bloodstream do not rule out the possibility of prostate cancer. However, most cases of early prostate cancer are found by a PSA blood test. 
For years, doctors have used a PSA blood test to screen men for prostate cancer. The test measures a protein made by the prostate gland, called a prostate-specific antigen (PSA). But the PSA test can do more harm than good. 
The PSA test is a blood test that can detect the early signs of an enlarged prostate. It is the most common initial test for men who are worried about prostate cancer. The test, which can be done at a GP surgery, measures the level of PSA (prostate-specific antigen) in your blood. PSA is a protein made only by the prostate gland. A raised PSA level in your blood may be a sign of prostate cancer. However, other conditions, such as an enlarged prostate, prostatitis or a urinary infection, can also cause a raised PSA level.
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a substance made by cells in the prostate gland (both normal cells and cancer cells). PSA is mostly found in semen, but a small amount is also found in the blood. Most healthy men have levels under 4 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. If the PSA is more than 10, the chance of having prostate cancer is over 50%. If your PSA level is high, your doctor may advise either waiting a while and repeating the test, or getting a prostate biopsy to find out if you have cancer.
The percentage of free PSA is lower in men who have prostate cancer than in men who do not. This test is sometimes used to help decide if you should have a prostate biopsy if your PSA results are in the borderline range (like between 4 and 10). A lower percent-free PSA means that your likelihood of having prostate cancer is higher and you should probably have a biopsy. If the PSA is more than 10, the chance of having prostate cancer is over 50%. If your PSA level is high, your doctor may advise either waiting a while and repeating the test, or getting a prostate biopsy to find out if you have cancer.
Prostate cancer tests. If you have symptoms that could be due to prostate cancer you usually begin by seeing your GP. They will examine you and ask about your general health. They will take a blood test to check the levels of a protein called prostate specific antigen (PSA) in your blood. They will also do an examination of the prostate gland via the back passage (a digital rectal examination). If these tests are not normal, your doctor will refer you to a specialist at the hospital
But your PSA level can also be raised in prostate conditions that are not cancer (are benign) or if you have an infection. To check for PSA (prostate specific antigen), your doctor takes a sample of your blood. Your doctor may want to rule out a urine infection before carrying out a test. They will examine you and ask about your general health. They will take a blood test to check the levels of a protein called prostate specific antigen (PSA) in your blood. They will also do an examination of the prostate gland via the back passage (a digital rectal examination).
Samples collected for cancer blood tests are analyzed in a lab for signs of cancer. The samples may show cancer cells, proteins or other substances made by the cancer. Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 
Prostate biopsy. If certain symptoms or the results of early detection tests – a PSA blood test and/or DRE – suggest that you might have prostate cancer, your doctor will do a prostate biopsy to find out. A biopsy is a procedure in which a sample of body tissue is removed and then looked at under a microscope. But it is also one of the first tests done in men who have symptoms that might be caused by prostate cancer. Most healthy men have PSA levels under 4 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The chance of having prostate cancer goes up as the PSA level goes up.