A sale is a transfer of property for money or credit. In double-entry bookkeeping, a sale of merchandise is recorded in the general journal as a debit to cash or accounts receivable and a credit to the sales account. The amount recorded is the actual monetary value of the transaction, not the list price of the merchandise. Also referred to as revenue, they are reported directly on the income statement as Sales or Net sales. In financial ratios that use income statement sales values, sales refers to net sales, not gross sales.
If the remaining minimum lease payments of a sales-type lease are subsequently altered, change the minimum lease payments receivable, with the offset charged to unearned income. If the change constitutes a new lease, terminate the accounting for the old lease and account for the post-change lease as a new lease. If a lease originally classified as a sales-type lease is renewed and the renewed lease is classified as an operating lease, the lessor should continue to account for the original lease as a sales-type lease, and then account for the renewed lease as an operating lease.
Sales-type leases are normally relevant to dealer and manufacturer lessors who also make a gross profit at the inception of the lease together with periodic interest income. Sales-type lease is relevant only to lessors. It has no accounting implications for lessees. 
Step 1. Click the List menu and select Chart of Accounts.. Step 2. Select the account you want to change to the Sales Tax Payable account. Drag the diamond icon to the left of the account's name left or right, if the account you want to merge is not at the same hierarchical level. Related Reading: How to Calculate Sales Tax on an Invoice in Accounts Payable
If the transaction is classified as a sales-type lease and it does not involve real estate, the lessor should account for the transaction by recognizing the following: Sale price. - Gross amount of investment in the lease. If a lease originally classified as a sales-type lease is renewed and the renewed lease is classified as an operating lease, the lessor should continue to account for the original lease as a sales-type lease, and then account for the renewed lease as an operating lease.
Sales-type lease accounting. A lease is classified as a sales-type lease by the lessor when the fair value of the leased property at the start of a lease varies from its carrying amount, it involves real estate, and there is a transfer of ownership to the lessee by the end of the lease term. If a lease originally classified as a sales-type lease is renewed and the renewed lease is classified as an operating lease, the lessor should continue to account for the original lease as a sales-type lease, and then account for the renewed lease as an operating lease.
Cash is an Asset that is received in exchange in the sale of a product or service. In Accounting, Revenue, Income and Sales are synonymous, they are Sources of Cash, not Cash itself. Financial Statements: Accounting Types help to organize Financial Statements too. Accounting Types help to organize the descriptions (accounts) in meaningful ways. The most important concept to transactions is Double Entry but it is the Chart of Accounts that makes sense of the transactions and provides mission critical information to owners and managers. The Basic Accounting Types (In order) Are:
Account Teams. This the most common type of sales or selling team as it is designed to handle one account or a small number of industry specific accounts. These teams are designed to maximize the account penetration and servicing requirements for the account.
1 Equity accounts include common stock, paid-in capital, and retained earnings. 2  The type and captions used for equity accounts are dependent on the type of entity. 3  Revenue or income accounts represent the company's earnings and common examples include sales, service revenue and interest income. The first digit might signify the type of account (asset, liability, etc.). For example, if the first digit is a 1, it is an asset. If the first digit is a 6, it is an operating expense.
The elements or accounts which represent expenses, losses, incomes, gains. Any element or account head used in an organisational accounting system would belong to one of these types. It should be either a personal account or real account or a nominal account. No element can fall under two types. Accounting System-Minimum Accounting Heads. Whatever may be the number of accounting heads/elements an organisational accounting is divided into, it should/will contain all the three types of accounts i.e. Real a/c's, Nominal a/c's and Personal a/c's.