One issue with pouring a concrete basement floor is that you don't have any room to work around the perimeter of the slab, as would be the case when working on ground level. Place strips of 1/2-inch plywood against the two concrete basement walls in the first quadrant you're pouring. These strips are used to create a gap between the walls and floor to allow for expansion and contraction.
One cubic yard of concrete will pour 80 square feet of a 4-inch-thick floor, 40 square feet of an 8-inch-thick wall, or about 30 linear feet of 8 x 16-inch footing. A satisfactory mix for basement walls, footings and floors is a six-sack mix containing 6 gallons of water per sack and a maximum aggregate size of 1 inch. 
In some older homes, the basement floor consists of dirt or gravel rather than a poured concrete slab. Finishing the floor by pouring concrete provides a solid surface for you to walk on and is a necessity if you want to finish the basement. Place strips of 1/2-inch plywood against the two concrete basement walls in the first quadrant you're pouring. These strips are used to create a gap between the walls and floor to allow for expansion and contraction.
If your concrete slab is only 4 thick instead of 6 that will reduce the total slab cost by $.50 cents per square foot to $3.50 per sq. ft. Any dirt work and grading of the sub-base would be an extra cost as would adding radiant heat to the concrete slab. I'll base my price on what my actual estimate would be to install a 6 thick concrete slab for one of my customers. Base cost for a 6 thick concrete slab -- $4.00 dollars per square foot --. Take the length of the concrete slab x the width of the slab to get the. total square footage. Multiply the total square footage by 4 (dollars) to get the total price
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 Extensive surface preparation, such as grinding, crack repair, and spall repair, can add as much as $2 per square foot to the overall cost of the floor. 2  If a full resurfacing is needed, expect to tack on another $2 to $3 per square foot (for a $4 to $5 per square foot increase).
That depends on how thick you want it. If it is 3 inches thick then it will take 4 square feet to make a cubic foot, and 27 square feet coverage from a cubic yard. Allow for about 10% excess incase you didn't meausre perfect. 37 cubic yards of cement. That will pump alot of moisture into the house. How much does it cost to pour concrete on a 1000 sq foot dirt floor basement? Older home-late 1800's that has a dirt floor instead of concrete in the basement.
Mixing. Cement is sold by the square yard, so you will have to redo your math to calculate how much you need. One cubic yard of concrete should be enough to pour a floor that is 80 square feet and 4 inches thick. Add at least 1/4 of a square yard to your total to make sure that you don’t run out of concrete before finishing your floor. Multiply the two numbers to get the total square footage of your basement. You will need enough sand to cover the floor in a layer that is between 4 inches and 5 inches thick. Pour the sand in large piles scattered throughout the basement. Spread the sand evenly over the dirt floor using a rake