Beryllium is found in about 30 mineral species, including bertrandite, beryl, chrysoberyl, and phenacite, according to the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Beryl and bertrandite are the most important commercial sources of the element and its compounds. Beryllium is alloyed with copper or nickel to make springs, gyroscopes, electrical contacts, spot-welding electrodes and non-sparking tools, according to the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Summary: Beryllium is a hard, grayish metal naturally found in mineral rocks, coal, soil, and volcanic dust. Beryllium compounds are commercially mined, and the Beryllium is purified for use in nuclear weapons and reactors, aircraft and space vehicle structures, instruments, x-ray machines, and mirrors. 
Beryllium is a metal that is used in the manufacturing of dozens of items, including cars, computers, golf clubs, and electrical equipment. Beryllium is light, non-magnetic, and a good conductor of heat and electricity, which is why it is used so widely. 
It is a divalent element which occurs naturally only in combination with other elements in minerals. Notable gemstones which contain beryllium include beryl (aquamarine, emerald) and chrysoberyl. As a free element it is a steel-gray, strong, lightweight and brittle alkaline earth metal. Beryllium is found in over 100 minerals, but most are uncommon to rare. The more common beryllium containing minerals include: bertrandite (Be 4 Si 2 O 7 (OH) 2), beryl (Al 2 Be 3 Si 6 O 18), chrysoberyl (Al 2 BeO 4) and phenakite (Be 2 SiO 4).
Beryllium (Be) is the fourth element of the periodic table and was discovered and named in 1798 by a chemist named Vaquelin. He actually found the element when he was working with emeralds. Now we use beryllium in nuclear reactors, machine parts, and satellites. 
Beryllium is alloyed with copper (2% beryllium, 98% copper) to form a wear resistant material, known as beryllium bronze, used in gyroscopes and other devices where wear resistance is important. Beryllium is alloyed with nickel (2% beryllium, 98% nickel) to make springs, spot-welding electrodes and non-sparking tools. Beryllium is relatively transparent to X-rays and is used to make windows for X-ray tubes. When exposed to alpha particles, such as those emitted by radium or polonium, beryllium emits neutrons and is used as a neutron source. Beryllium is also used as a moderator in nuclear reactors.
Beryllium is a metallic chemical element grouped with the alkaline earth elements, which include magnesium, calcium, barium, radium, and strontium. Like other elements in this group, it is a silvery gray metal, and its oxides are alkaline. 
Beryllium is a steel gray and hard metal that is brittle at room temperature and has a close-packed hexagonal crystal structure. It has exceptional stiffness (Young's modulus 287 GPa) and a reasonably high melting point. The modulus of elasticity of beryllium is approximately 50% greater than that of steel. Beryllium is found in over 100 minerals, but most are uncommon to rare. The more common beryllium containing minerals include: bertrandite (Be 4 Si 2 O 7 (OH) 2), beryl (Al 2 Be 3 Si 6 O 18), chrysoberyl (Al 2 BeO 4) and phenakite (Be 2 SiO 4).
Beryllium: the essentials. Beryllium is a Group 2 (IIA) element. It is a metal and has a high melting point. At ordinary temperatures, beryllium resists oxidation in air. Beryllium compounds are very toxic. Its ability to scratch glass is probably due to the formation of a thin layer of the oxide. In fact, compounds containing beryllium are poisonous. Beryllium is found in a number of minerals. The most important minerals are beryl, [Be 3 Al 2 (SiO 3) 6 ], which is often found as hexagonal prisms, and bertrandite [4BeO.2SiO 2 .H 2 O].