Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Fascism arose in Italy between the two world wars, in a movement led by Benito Mussolini. It is a collectivist movement, based on the assumption that the interest of the citizen is best served by being part of a powerful society and nation. Report Abuse. Italian Fascism is an extreme political philosophy that holds nation and race above individual and supports the establishment of an authoritarian government, where absolute power is controlled by the leader of the nation. The Italian fascism was developed by Benito Mussolini following WW1, in 1922.
Italian Fascism (Italian: Fascismo Italiano), also known simply as Fascism (Italian: Fascismo), is the original fascist ideology, as developed in Italy. 230 Italian Jews took part in the Fascists' March on Rome in 1922. Mussolini in the early 1920s was cautious on topics of Italian Jewish financiers, that arose from time to time from antisemitic elements in the Fascist movement; while he regarded them as untrustworthy he believed that he could draw them to his side.
Fascism is a form of government, in which the country is considered more important than any one person, group, liberty, or provision. A country under this kind of government is usually run by a person called a leader, who has the right of total control over the government and people. 
Fascism /ˈfaeʃɪzəm/ ˈfæʃɪzəm is a form of radical authoritarian nationalism that came to prominence in early-20th Century. Europe influenced by national, syndicalism fascism originated In italy During World War, i in opposition to, Liberalism, marxism And. anarchism Later the Italian Fascists described fascism as a right-wing ideology in the political program The Doctrine of Fascism, stating: We are free to believe that this is the century of authority, a century tending to the 'right,' a fascist century..
Italian Fascism was rooted in Italian nationalism and the desire to restore and expand Italian territories, which Italian Fascists deemed necessary for a nation to assert its superiority and strength and to avoid succumbing to decay. 230 Italian Jews took part in the Fascists' March on Rome in 1922. Mussolini in the early 1920s was cautious on topics of Italian Jewish financiers, that arose from time to time from antisemitic elements in the Fascist movement; while he regarded them as untrustworthy he believed that he could draw them to his side.
Fascism is for the only liberty which can be a serious thing, the liberty of the state and of the individual in the state. Therefore for the fascist, everything is in the state, and no human or spiritual thing exists, or has any sort of value, outside the state. In this sense fascism is totalitarian, and the fascist state which is the synthesis and unity of every value, interprets, develops and strengthens the entire life of the people. 230 Italian Jews took part in the Fascists' March on Rome in 1922. Mussolini in the early 1920s was cautious on topics of Italian Jewish financiers, that arose from time to time from antisemitic elements in the Fascist movement; while he regarded them as untrustworthy he believed that he could draw them to his side.
Italian Fascism was founded by Benito Mussolini and it signifies Italy's very authoritarian and nationalistic government at the time of his rule. This was a result of an unfair deal at the Treaty of Versailles and a rise of social and political unrest after WWI. Report Abuse. Italian Fascism is an extreme political philosophy that holds nation and race above individual and supports the establishment of an authoritarian government, where absolute power is controlled by the leader of the nation. The Italian fascism was developed by Benito Mussolini following WW1, in 1922.
Mussolini claimed to have been the founder of fascism. Italian fascism (in Italian, fascismo) was the authoritarian political movement which ruled Italy from 1922 to 1943 under the leadership of Benito Mussolini. The word fascism stems from the Italian word fascio (plural: fasci), which may mean bundle, as in a political or militant group, or a nation. The term also comes from the fasces (rods bundled around an axe), which was an ancient Roman symbol of the authority of magistrates.
Originally, the term fascism was used by an Italian political movement that ruled Italy from 1922 to 1943 under the leadership of Benito Mussolini (see Italian fascism). The word fascism stems from the Italian word fascio (plural: fasci), which may mean bundle, as in a political or militant group, or a nation. The term also comes from the fasces (rods bundled around an axe), which was an ancient Roman symbol of the authority of magistrates.