Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'. 
Glycogen is the principal storage form of glucose in animal cells. In humans, the most glycogen is found in the liver (10% of the liver mass), whereas muscles only contain a relatively low amount of glycogen (1% of the muscle mass). In addition, small amounts of glycogen are found in certain glial cells in the brain. Glycogen is considered the principal storage form of glucose and is found mainly in liver and muscle, with kidney and intestines adding minor storage sites. With up to 10% of its weight as glycogen, the liver has the highest specific content of any body tissue.
gly·co·gen. n. A polysaccharide that is the main form of carbohydrate storage in animals and occurs mainly in liver and muscle tissue; it is readily converted to glucose. Also called animal starch. gly′co·gen′ic (-jĕn′ĭk) adj. glycogen. a polysaccharide, the chief carbohydrate storage material in animals. It is formed and stored in the liver and muscles (phosphorylytically cleaved to glucose-1-phosphate). Called also
Glycogen is considered the principal storage form of glucose and is found mainly in liver and muscle, with kidney and intestines adding minor storage sites. With up to 10% of its weight as glycogen, the liver has the highest specific content of any body tissue. 
The form of glucose used for storage in animals is glycogen. This is mostly made in the liver and/or muscle cells. The form of storage used in plants is starch. + 8 others found this useful. 
Starch it, please: Storing glucose in plants. The storage form of glucose in plants is starch. Starch is a polysaccharide. The leaves of a plant make sugar during the process of photosynthesis. Photosynthesis occurs in light (photo = light), such as when the sun is shining. The energy from the sunlight is used to make energy for the plant. Storage Forms of Glucose in Organisms. When carbohydrates from the foods you consume are digested, glucose is the smallest molecule into which a carbohydrate is broken down. Glucose molecules are absorbed from intestinal cells into the bloodstream.
Glycogen is a multibranched polysaccharide of glucose that serves as a form of energy storage in animals and fungi. The polysaccharide structure represents the main storage form of glucose in the body. In humans, glycogen is made and stored primarily in the cells of the liver and the muscles hydrated with three or four parts of water. Glycogen is found in the form of granules in the cytosol /cytoplasm in many cell types, and plays an important role in the glucose cycle.
- Storage form of carbohydrate (glucose) in humans and other animals-Stored primarily in liver and muscles-similar in structure to starch but more branches-can break off a glucose easily with branches b/c enzymes start at the outside-undetectable in meats b/c glycogen breaks down as soon as animal is slaughtered. (3). 1. - Starch-storage form of glucose in plants 2. - Glycogen-short-term storage form of glucose in animals, muscle sugar • Muscles and liver where it is stored 3. - Cellulose of plant cells or Fiber-cell walls • Wood and dietary fiber are both mostly cellulose • Indigestible by most organisms.