Elderberry juice supports the immune system, but may be potentially harmful during pregnancy. Photo Credit Digital Vision./Photodisc/Getty Images. Elderberry, also known as elder, has been used for centuries in European countries for its ability to treat respiratory ailments as well as skin abrasions. This publication says there is no data suggesting elderberry preparations, including elderberry juice, might have adverse effects during pregnancy or lactation. Thus, elderberry may in fact be safe during pregnancy.
Tagged: 0 Thread(s). Quoted: 0 Post(s). I made my own elderberry syrup (elderberries, water, honey) and used it during pregnancy. Energetics of Western Herbs by Peter Holmes has a list of herbs that are contraindicated during pregnancy (do not use) and a list of herbs to be used with caution during pregnancy. The elder syrup worked wonders for me and not once did I have even a hint of cyanide poisoning. The best way to use it is going to be buy dried berries and make a syrup. Take 1 oz of berries to 1 qt of water and simmer on the stove. Reduce the mixture to half of its original volume and strain off the berries. The liquid is your syrup and you can store in the fridge for about 1 week
Warnings. Considering the lack of research about elderberry juice and pregnancy, discuss use of this herbal cocktail with your physician. While properly prepared elderberry juice has no known side effects or confirmed drug interactions, unripe elderberries are toxic, and may cause vomiting, nausea or diarrhea. This publication says there is no data suggesting elderberry preparations, including elderberry juice, might have adverse effects during pregnancy or lactation. Thus, elderberry may in fact be safe during pregnancy.
Share. I have what I believe to be Bronchitis (I'm seeing a doc today) and I was wondering if anyone knows whether or not Graprefruit Seed Extract or Elderberry are safe to take while pregnant. They both work so well for combating the effects of cold and flu and I need to take something to help this go away. 
Elderberry might affect the immune system. Elderberry seems to have activity against viruses including the flu, and might reduce inflammation. Taking an elderberry juice extract seems to be safe when used for up to five days. It's not known if taking elderberry juice extract is safe when used for long periods of time. The cooked elderberry fruit seems to be safe.
Even WebMD acknowledges Elderberry’s use in medicine: “Elderberry is used for “the flu” (influenza), H1N1 “swine” flu, HIV/AIDS, and boosting the immune system. It is also used for sinus pain, back and leg pain (sciatica), nerve pain (neuralgia), and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). 1 Dried elderberries or elder flowers can be used to make a delicious tea (I’d add honey or stevia since it is somewhat sour). 2  A pre-made syrup is available for acute flu symptoms, but the homemade version works just as well and is much less expensive in my experience.
ELDERBERRY Side Effects & Safety. Taking an elderberry juice extract is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth for up to 12 weeks. It’s not known if taking elderberry juice extract is safe when used for long periods of time. Elderberry is POSSIBLY UNSAFE when the leaves, stems, unripened fruit, or uncooked fruit is consumed. The cooked elderberry fruit seems to be safe, but raw and unripe fruit might cause nausea, vomiting, or severe diarrhea. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the safety of using elderberry during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
Elderberry, or elder, has been used for centuries to treat wounds, when applied to the skin. It is also taken by mouth to treat respiratory illnesses such as cold and flu. In many countries, including Germany, elder flower is used to treat colds and flu. Pregnant and breastfeeding women should not take elderberry. If you have an autoimmune disease, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus, you should ask your doctor before taking elderberry, as it may stimulate the immune system.