1. When you receive your summons, complete SECTION A of your summons and answer all questions 1 through 9, Step 2 and Section G. 
Even though you are eligible to be selected for jury duty, you may be disqualified or exempted from jury service. Section 40.013 of the Florida Statutes has a list of reasons that disqualify you from jury duty and also has a list of the acceptable reasons for you to be excused. 5) Have a valid Florida Drivers License OR a valid Florida Identification Card. If you have received a summons, it means you have been randomly selected to report for jury duty because you meet all five (5) requirements.
In response to the summons for jury service you received you must do the following: 1  Complete the Jury Information Form. 2  If applicable, complete the Partial Excuse Form. 3  Contact the Jury Clerk to update your availability if your schedule changes after you have submitted your Partial Excuse Form. You will be notified as to when to report for jury service by receiving a Notice to Report in the mail. You should receive the Notice to Report approximately one week prior to the day you must report to the Court for jury service.
If a juror is late the juror will receive a failure to appear summons to appear for jury duty on a different day in 60  90 days. Jurors should plan to arrive in the garage at least 30 minutes prior to check-in time. If you ARE selected to serve on a jury for a trial, your service is complete at the conclusion of the trial. The average trial lasts for three to five days. Some of the municipal courts and justice of the peace courts use a pooling system. This means you are on call by the court for a period of time (4 to 8 weeks).
Each district court summons eligible citizens within the local area. You must contact your local district court website to fill out a Juror Qualifications Questionnaire online or contact your local district court for questions about jury service. 
When you report for jury service, you will check in, attend a brief orientation, and shortly thereafter, proceed to the courtroom for jury selection. During jury selection, the judge will ask you a series of questions to determine if you are appropriate to serve on the grand jury. 10. A juror who fails to report for jury service and was not excused from jury service by the Court may be ordered to appear before the Court and show cause for why he or she failed to comply with the summons for jury service.
In response to the summons for jury service you received you must do the following: 1  Complete the Jury Information Form. 2  You can complete the paper form located at the bottom of the enclosed summons, or you can log onto our website (www.mnd.uscourts.gov) to complete the form out on-line using eJuror. You will be notified as to when to report for jury service by receiving a Notice to Report in the mail. You should receive the Notice to Report approximately one week prior to the day you must report to the Court for jury service.
Upon completion of your jury duty, you will be exempt from jury service for one year. If you were a sworn juror on a trial, and receive a Summons for Jury Service within 3 years, you may request to be excused. 5. However, you may request to be postponed to a more convenient time. If serving on jury duty will create an extreme financial hardship, fill in item #10 in the Request for Excuse section on the back of the Summons for Jury Service.
The form that you get in the mail contains your Summons, Juror Instructions, Check-In Stub/Payment Affidavit, Juror Parking Permit and Map. This form is the only notice you’ll receive. You will need the information on it and will have to bring a portion of it with you when you report for jury duty. 5) Have a valid Florida Drivers License OR a valid Florida Identification Card. If you have received a summons, it means you have been randomly selected to report for jury duty because you meet all five (5) requirements.
Upon completion of your jury duty, you will be exempt from jury service for one year. If you were a sworn juror on a trial, and receive a Summons for Jury Service within 3 years, you may request to be excused. Back to Top 5. However, you may request to be postponed to a more convenient time. If serving on jury duty will create an extreme financial hardship, fill in item #10 in the Request for Excuse section on the back of the Summons for Jury Service.