Care Of A Miniature Donkey. FEEDING. Any good quality grass hay, such as Bermuda, Timothy or Orchard would be good choices for miniature donkeys. Do not feed alfalfa which is too high in protein, except foals may benefit from small amounts of alfalfa. Ideally your hay selection should be in the range of 10% to 12% protein
2. Donkeys need to eat little and often (like other equines) and don't do well if fed large amounts of food in one go ie. a morning and evening 'bucket feed'. You should avoid feeding your donkey any cereals or grains such as oats, barley, wheat and corn (maize). 1 Be careful not to overfeed your donkey. 2  Donkeys become ill with life-threatening diseases when they eat too much protein and other nutrient-rich food. 3  Donkeys evolved in the arid and semi-arid areas of the Middle East and North Africa, and as a result can get all the nutrients they need from high fibre, scrubby pasture.
We have rescued a 14.1 HH donkey that registers 3 of 9 on the BCS scale. We have had mammoth donkeys for six years so we are used to feeding by weight, 1.25% of their body weight a day during the summer and 1.5% in the winter seems to work. The hay we will feed her is Timothy grown at 7,500 ft altitude. We live at 6,100 feet in Colorado. From Quarter Horses to Arabians, from miniature horses to draft horses – we all know that our equine friends come in all shapes, sizes and colors. But with horses we can usually apply certain rules for feeding across a large variety of breeds with minimal adjustments. Donkeys are something all together different.
Lesson Seven-The last lesson in your donkey educationOwner's ManualLearn to Care for Your Miniature DonkeyDon't you wish everything came with a manual!Updated 6-6-15May Not Be Reproduced in any form without the written permission of Best Friends Farm, Gainesville, Florida, Copyright pending. Miniature Donkeys crave your attention! Keep your donkey happy and content by loving on her daily.We have not figured out who craves the attention the most -- the donkey or the human.9. WEAN YOUR FOALSBetween 4 and 6 months of age is the appropriate age for a miniature donkey foal to be weaned.
When you cut the string or wire the bale of hay will naturally fall into sections, which you will hear people refer to as a flake or a wedge. One wedge will be plenty of hay for one miniature donkey for a day. Over feeding treats is where most people get their little donkeys too fat. Over the years we have used a number of shippers, who will carefully transport your miniature donkey from our front door to yours. If you want mini donkeys, we can find a good way to get them to you. We have a number of mini donkey photos and helpful information on the following pages.
All Creatures small Farm is close to you. Stephenville, Texas where our mini donkey farm is located, is a short drive from cities like Weatherford, Granbury, Mineral Wells, Glen Rose, Cleburne, Brownwood, and Hico. Our miniature donkey farm is about an hour to an hour and a half South West of Ft. Worth and Dallas. Over the years we have used a number of shippers, who will carefully transport your miniature donkey from our front door to yours. If you want mini donkeys, we can find a good way to get them to you. We have a number of mini donkey photos and helpful information on the following pages.
These guidelines are designed for the average healthy adult donkey. If your donkey is ill, obese, old, a young foal, or a nursing mother, you will need to supplement the following information with feeding recommendations found in the References section. Providing a donkey with a healthy diet is one of the most important responsibilities of donkey ownership. Avoid feeding treats to donkeys. Many horse and people snacksare too rich, provide too many calories and carbohydrates,and can result in serious hoof and digestive problems. All breads, lawn clippings, and many grains, etc. have unhealthy levels of sugars, starches, and carbohydrates.
Miniature Donkeys need good quality, dust—free hay. A timothy grass mix is very popular in the northeast, for instance. Mold in feed has been known to cause health problems and birth defects so good quality feed is essential, i.e. good grass hay should have a nice green color and a sweet smell (something like tea). Standard size donkeys may be able to fill the role as a guardian donkey, but not Miniature Donkeys. Therefore your fencings should be safe for the donkeys, which means keeping predators out — either woven wire (field fencing) or high tensile fencing with hot wires as a deterrent.
Miniature Donkeys are grazers. So, they will be eating your pasture grass. Coastal Bermuda seems to be the best, but there are many other native grasses to your area of the country that will be a good food supply. Get in touch with your county extension agent about the native grass on your land or in your area. Over the years we have used a number of shippers, who will carefully transport your miniature donkey from our front door to yours. If you want mini donkeys, we can find a good way to get them to you. We have a number of mini donkey photos and helpful information on the following pages.