Confidence votes 27.8K. Cytoplasm is found in both animal and plant cells. The cytoplasm is a thick liquid residing between the cell membrane holding organelles, except for the nucleus.. - See related link. Prokayote organisms (those which lack a nucleus) - all the contents of the cell are contained within the cytoplasm. The cytoplasmic structure that is only found in plant cells is the  chloroplasts. The chloroplasts are responsible for capturing and  storing energy from sunlight to use dur … ing photosynthesis.
It is easier to explain what these parts are by using diagrams like the ones below. Animal cells and plant cells both contain: cell membrane, cytoplasm, nucleus. Plant cells also contain these parts, not found in animal cells: chloroplasts, vacuole, cell wall. The table summarises the functions of these parts. Plant and animal cells. Cytoplasm. Jelly-like substance, where chemical reactions happen. In plant cells there's a thin lining, whereas in animal cells most of the cell is cytoplasm. Plant and animal cells. Nucleus. Controls what happens inside the cell.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. The concentrated inner area is called the endoplasm and the outer layer is called the cell cortex or the ectoplasm. Movement of calcium ions in and out of the cytoplasm is thought to be a signaling activity for metabolic processes. In plants, movements of the cytoplasm around vacuoles are known as cytoplasmic streaming.
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. Besides the presence of chloroplasts, another major difference between plant and animal cells is the presence of a cell wall. The cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane of plant cells and provides tensile strength and protection against mechanical and osmotic stress.
Report Abuse. Plant cells. But for what cytoplasm means it might be animal cells. Because cytoplasm is the cell substance between the cell membrane and the nucleus, containing the cytosol, organelles, cytoskeleton, and various particles. Animal cells have cell membranes, they are possibly also carrying cytoplasm. Source(s): Science class. 
The cytoplasm is about 80% water and usually colorless. It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division. The concentrated inner area is called the endoplasm and the outer layer is called the cell cortex or the ectoplasm. Movement of calcium ions in and out of the cytoplasm is thought to be a signaling activity for metabolic processes. In plants, movements of the cytoplasm around vacuoles are known as cytoplasmic streaming.