Surgery can sometimes improve the appearance of scars, as it can be used to: 1  change the positioning of the scar. 2  change the width or shape of the scar. 3  release a tight scar that is close to a joint, to improve movement.
apply scar cream as soon as the wound has healed. It is normal to be preoccupied with the surgery. As a result the question which scar cream is best to use after surgery may not rise until the moment is there. For optimal results it is best to start with scar treatment at the moment the wound has healed. Enhancing the wound healing process can be very beneficial and reduce the risk on unsightly scarring.
1 These scars are the result of an overly aggressive healing process. 2  They extend beyond the original injury. 3  Over time, a keloid scar may hamper movement. 4  Treatments include surgery to remove the scar, steroid injections, or silicone sheets to flatten the scar.
Almost all experts, dermatologists, plastic surgeons, and other medical professionals agree that silicone gel is the best over-the-counter scar treatment to use after surgery. This type of scar cream is not only recommended by plastic surgeons but is also the only clinically proven home remedy.
1 Over time, a keloid scar may hamper movement. 2  Treatments include surgery to remove the scar, steroid injections, or silicone sheets to flatten the scar. 3  Smaller keloids can be treated using cryotherapy (freezing therapy using liquid nitrogen).
Cosmetic Procedures: Scars. Skin is a seamless organ, like a fine cloth protecting valuable assets. Imagine a piece of silk. Just one small tear can make a big difference in how it looks. And it's the same with skin. Any burn, injury, or other trauma, such as surgery, can cause a scar.
1 Treatments include surgery to remove the scar, steroid injections, or silicone sheets to flatten the scar. 2  Smaller keloids can be treated using cryotherapy (freezing therapy using liquid nitrogen). 3  You can also prevent keloid formation by using pressure treatment or gel pads with silicone when you are injured.
Silicone wound dressings and Silicone gels are best for after surgery scar care. Studies have shown that silicone can help reduce scarring and is commonly used after plastic surgery. Discuss Silicone dressings Silicone gels with your surgeon.