) is the ability to assume extended positions and then maintain them using only your weight, the support of your limbs, or some other apparatus (such as a chair or a barre). Note that the ability to maintain the position does not come solely from your muscles, as it does with static-active flexibility. Being able to perform the splits is an example of static-passive flexibility.
Flexibility is a measure of the range of motion of a joint. This range of motion is affected by the health of the tendons, ligaments and muscles surrounding the joint, as well as medical conditions such as arthritis and osteoporosis, which tend to increase with advanced age. Although it is more difficult to remain flexible in old age, flexibility can increase your resistance to injuries and decrease chronic pain. Regular exercise increases overall flexibility and range of movement by decreasing fat, increasing muscle mass and keeping your joints moving.
Flexibility and weight-training: you can increase flexibility with weight-training, strength training and resistance training. Some readers may think that weight training and flexibility training are incompatible, that by lifting heavy weights their flexibility will decrease. This is a myth. Research in the 60s and 70s proved that correctly performed resistance exercise does not negatively affect flexibility (Alter, 1996. 
Flexibility in some joints can be increased to a certain degree by exercise, with stretching a common exercise component to maintain or improve flexibility. Quality of life is enhanced by improving and maintaining a good range of motion in the joints. Overall flexibility should be developed with specific joint range of motion needs in mind as the individual joints vary from one to another. Loss of flexibility can be a predisposing factor for physical issues such as pain syndromes or balance disorders. Gender, age, and genetics are important for range of motion. Movement demands include strength, endurance and range of motion. Training oversights occurs when the body is overused. Internally, the joints, muscles, tendons, and ligaments can affect one's
ROM and flexibility decreases with age. This is due, in part to the fibrous connective tissue that takes the place of muscle fibres through a process called fibrosis (1). Females tend to be more flexible than males. Some intrinsically have a greater range of motion (ROM) than others. The ball and socket joint of the shoulder for example, has the greatest range of motion of all the joints and can move in each of the anatomical planes (1). Compare the shoulder joint to the ellipsoidal joint of the wrist.
As people age, the tissue around joints tends to thicken. This can decrease the joint's range of motion. Cartilage -- connective tissue that cushions the joints and aids in movement -- tends to decrease around certain joints in old age. Although it is more difficult to remain flexible in old age, flexibility can increase your resistance to injuries and decrease chronic pain. Regular exercise increases overall flexibility and range of movement by decreasing fat, increasing muscle mass and keeping your joints moving.
Flexibility or limberness refers to the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints, and length in muscles that cross the joints to induce a bending movement or motion. Flexibility varies between individuals, particularly in terms of differences in muscle length of multi-joint muscles. Movement demands include strength, endurance and range of motion. Training oversights occurs when the body is overused. Internally, the joints, muscles, tendons, and ligaments can affect one's flexibility.
Flexibility is defined by Gummerson as the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints that is attainable in a momentary effort with the help of a partner or a piece of equipment.. This definition tells us that flexibility is not something general but is specific to a particular joint or set of joints. In other words, it is a myth that some people are innately flexible throughout their entire body. Being flexible in one particular area or joint does not necessarily imply being flexible in another. Note that the ability to maintain the position does not come solely from your muscles, as it does with static-active flexibility. Being able to perform the splits is an example of static-pass
Gender roles, or sex roles to many, are important to the study of family interaction because our definition of the part(s) we play in family relationships, and thus the very meaning which we attach. to family ties, are guided to a great extent by our concept of gender appropriate behavior. 
The Physiology of Flexibility. A number of anatomical and physiological factors influence an athlete's flexibility... While some we are stuck with (such as age, gender, and joint structure), others are under our control. These include activity level, muscle bulk and stretching exercises. 1. Some intrinsically have a greater range of motion (ROM) than others. The ball and socket joint of the shoulder for example, has the greatest range of motion of all the joints and can move in each of the anatomical planes (1). Compare the shoulder joint to the ellipsoidal joint of the wrist.