ligaments connect the bones together. tendons connect the muscle to bone Ligaments are the skeletal components that connect bones to other bones to create a joint, a flexible … structure that is capable of movement and of bearing both weight and external forces applied to it. Ligaments are made of collagen, formed into short, fibrous bands. Ligaments: is a tough material that connects bones together at the joints. Cartilage: is a smooth tough material that protects the end of the bones. It protects the end of t … he bones. Tendons: is a rubber-like cords. it's function is it stretch as the muscles and the bones move. + 24 others found this useful.
Ligaments and tendons are soft collagenous tissues. Ligaments connect bone to bone and tendons connect muscles to bone. Ligaments and tendons play a significant role in musculoskeletal biomechanics. They represent an important area of orthopaedic treatment for which many challenges for repair remain. In addition, ligaments and tendons can adapt to changes in their mechanical environment due to injury, disease or excerise. Thus, ligaments and tendons are another example of the structure-function concept and the mechanically mediated adaptation concept that permeate this biomechanics course.
The primary function of a tendon is to transmit force, and ligaments function to create stability in joints and to support internal organs. Ligaments have a limited range of motion and are not elastic. The functions of ligaments, tendons and cartilage involve supporting and connecting various tissues and structures in the body. What Are Tendons &...
Ligaments and tendons are soft collagenous tissues. Ligaments connect bone to bone and tendons connect muscles to bone. Ligaments and tendons play a significant role in musculoskeletal biomechanics. They represent an important area of orthopaedic treatment for which many challenges for repair remain. 
Save. Tendons connect muscle to bone and ligaments connect bone to bone; both are soft, collagenous, connective tissues. Ligaments and tendons are more susceptible to injury as the body ages because water content decreases. A strain is an injured or torn tendon, and a sprain is an injured or torn ligament. The functions of ligaments, tendons and cartilage involve supporting and connecting various tissues and structures in the body. What Are Tendons &...
The shoulder is not a single joint, but a complex arrangement of bones, ligaments, muscles, and tendons that is better called the shoulder girdle. The primary function of the shoulder girdle is to give strength and range of motion to the arm. The shoulder girdle includes three bones—the scapula, clavicle and humerus. Bursae occur in connective tissue wherever two body parts—other than joints—move against each other. Their function is to lessen the friction between tendon and bone, ligament and bone, tendons and ligaments, and between muscles. Inflammation or infection of the bursa is called bursitis.
A tendon (or sinew) is a tough band of fibrous connective tissue that usually connects muscle to bone and is capable of withstanding tension. Tendons are similar to ligaments and fasciae; all three are made of collagen. Ligaments join one bone to another bone; fasciae connect muscles to other muscles. Tendons and muscles work together to move bones.
In anatomy, a ligament is the fibrous connective tissue that connects bones to other bones and is also known as articular ligament, articular larua, fibrous ligament, or true ligament. Ligament can also refer to: 1  Peritoneal ligament: a fold of peritoneum or other membranes. Ligaments are similar to tendons and fasciae as they are all made of connective tissue. The differences in them are in the connections that they make; ligaments connect one bone to another bone, tendons connect muscle to bone and fasciae connect muscles to other muscles.
Ligaments: is a tough material that connects bones together at the joints. Cartilage: is a smooth tough material that protects the end of the bones. It protects the end of t … he bones. Tendons: is a rubber-like cords. it's function is it stretch as the muscles and the bones move. Tendons are a type of soft tissue connecting muscle tissue to bone, similar to the ligaments that connect bone to bone. The function of tendons is to transfer force between mu … scle and bone. This facilitates the joint movement for everyday movements. 2 people found this useful. Johnellishartford. 14,297 Contributions.