Abstract. Students examine and characterize the shape memory and superelastic properties of NiTi wire, and then realize the difference is in the transformation temperature (i.e., A f-the austenitic finish temperature). They then use the phase diagram and TTT diagram to develop the appropriate annealing treatments to change a sample from superelastic into shape memory behavior. Concepts of precipitation, kinetics, nucleation and growth are incorporated into the lab. Students can then also “train” the NiTi wires into desired shapes.
When an SI unit is spelled out in English, it should always begin with a lower-case letter (siemens), except where any word would be capitalized. In English, the same form siemens is used both for the singular and plural. The unit siemens for the conductance G is defined by. where ω is the ohm, A is the ampere, and V is the volt. For a device with a conductance of one siemens, the electric current through the device will increase by one ampere for every increase of one volt of electric potential difference across the device.
Based upon this preliminary data, it appears that Nitinol 60, despite its high titanium content, is a promising alloy for advanced mechanical systems requiring superior and intrinsic cor-rosion resistance, electrical conductivity and non-magnetic behavior under lubricated contacting conditions. Unlike ce-ramics, Nitinol 60 is electrically conductive. Table I contains a summary of key material properties for conventional and high performance bearing alloys in current use and, for comparative purposes, includes basic properties for Nitinol 55 and Nitinol 60 alloys.
This 16-gauge (16G) electrode can be used to create large RF lesions for the treatment of pain using monopolar RF. The SRK electrode has a blunt tip and is introduced using 14-gauge autoclavable spinal needles. The electrode is autoclavable and contains a thermocouple for temperature-controlled RF lesioning. Disposable RF Electrodes (TCD). Each Cosman disposableTC radiofrequency electrode (TCD) comes sterile-packed to eliminate sterilization logistics and the possibility of disease transmission. Use as a backup in case a reusable electrode is accidently contaminated.
The nitinol wire provides a low constant force at human body temperature used to straighten teeth while reducing the need for wire retightening. The transition temperature of these wires are made so that they generate force at the temperature of the human mouth (about 37C (98.6F)). Superelasticity is a unique property of SMA. If the SMA is deformed at a temperature slightly above its transition temperature, it springs right back into shape. This springy property is called superelasticity. Manufacturers have capitalized on this property finding useful medical and dental applications
1 Knowledge of the medical device industry and its products is helpful; experience with similar products and markets. 2  Ability to quickly develop a detailed knowledge of internal production operations, customers’ production operations, and competitive landscape. Function as an integral part of the sales team, utilizing strong professional and technical skills to identify, initiate and prioritize product and market development activities at large existing and new strategic accounts, emphasizing focus on contract manufacturing services for the device industry.
Management Summary Nitinol 60 (60NiTi), an intermetallic nick-el-titanium alloy containing 60 wt % nickel and 40 wt % titanium, is shown to be a prom-ising material for oil-lubricated, rolling and sliding contact applications such as bearings and gears. Unlike ce-ramics, Nitinol 60 is electrically conductive. Table I contains a summary of key material properties for conventional and high performance bearing alloys in current use and, for comparative purposes, includes basic properties for Nitinol 55 and Nitinol 60 alloys.
Superelastic Properties of Nitinol. Superelasticity is a unique property of SMA. If the SMA is deformed at a temperature slightly above its transition temperature, it springs right back into shape. This springy property is called superelasticity. Manufacturers have capitalized on this property finding useful medical and dental applications
Video not loaded. Drug-eluting stents are metal stents that have been coated with a pharmacologic agent (drug) that is known to suppress restenosis: the reblocking or closing up of an artery after angioplasty due to excess tissue growth inside or at the edge of the stent. Restenosis has a number of causes; it is a very complex process and the solution to its prevention is equally complex. Traditional bare-metal stents have restenosis rates of up to 25%; current 2nd and 3rd generation drug-eluting stents have reduced that rate to single digits.