Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. The overall reaction occurs in a series of biochemical steps, most of which are redox reactions themselves. Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell due to slow release of energy from the series of reactions.
Just like we need energy to get through the day, individual cells need energy for survival too. Cellular respiration is the process by which cells get their energy in the form of ATP. There are two types of cellular respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient and can be utilized in the presence of oxygen, while anaerobic respiration does not require oxygen. 
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity. The overall reaction occurs in a series of biochemical steps, most of which are redox reactions themselves. Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell due to slow release of energy from the series of reactions.
Glycolysis. Cells harvest the energy contained in the chemical bonds of glucose in a very controlled, step-by-step series of reactions that release small amounts of energy during each biochemical reaction. Glycolysis is the first step of cellular respiration, where a molecule of glucose is split to release energy. The process of glycolysis is an enzyme controlled, four-step reaction that occurs in the cytoplasm of the cells:
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 
Therefore, you will need some carbohydrate to serve as an energy source. Most of what we eat is in the form of complex carbohydrates, and the cell uses hydrolysis reactions to break this down into glucose. This can then be fed into the first part of cellular respiration, glycolysis. The only other real requirement for aerobic respiraton is oxygen (as hinted by the word aerobic). Glycolysis itself does not require oxygen, and therefore can continue in the absence of it. This is known as anaerobic respiration. 
Cellular aerobic respiration occurs within the mitochondria. Cellular respiration occurs in the mitochondria of a cell. Mitochondria are the cellular power houses that … conduct oxygen and glucose through the cell to the other mitochondria, which use the oxygen and glucose to power the cell. After being used, the oxgen and glucose is transformed into carbon dioxide and water. Glycolysis, the first stage of aerobic respiration, occurs in a cell's cytoplasm. The second stage (acetyl-CoA formation and the Krebs cycle) and the third stage (electron tra … nsfer phosphorylation) occur inside a cell's mitochondria. They occur at the inner mitochondrial membrane, which is highly folded
Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be used as fuels in cellular respiration, but glucose is most commonly used as an example to examine the reactions and pathways involved. In glycolysis, the 6-carbon sugar, glucose, is broken down into two molecules of a 3-carbon molecule called pyruvate.
Respiration is the process by which organisms burn food to produce energy. The starting material of cellular respiration is the sugar glucose, which has energy stored in its chemical bonds. You can think of glucose as a kind of cellular piece of coal: chock-full of energy, but useless when you want to power a stereo. 