The posterior column (dorsal column) refers to the area of white matter in the middle to posterior side of the spinal cord. It is made up of the gracile fasciculus and the cuneate fasciculus and itself is part of the posterior funiculus. It is part of an ascending pathway that is important for well-localized fine touch and conscious proprioception called the posterior column-medial lemniscus pathway.
Neurons pass along sensory information to the dorsal column. The dorsal column is part of the spinal cord, which is responsible for transporting sensory input from the body to the cerebral cortex in the brain. The dorsal column is located at the rear of the spinal cord. The name “dorsal column” actually provides some clues, for people who are familiar with medical terminology. “Dorsal” is a term which is used in anatomical positioning to refer to something at the back of the body, which means that this column is at the rear of the spinal cord.
The dorsal column is a part of the spinal cord which is responsible for transporting sensory input from the body to the cerebral cortex. This part of the spinal cord is key in perceiving fine touch, such as that used to distinguish textures, along with vibration. The name “dorsal column” actually provides some clues, for people who are familiar with medical terminology. “Dorsal” is a term which is used in anatomical positioning to refer to something at the back of the body, which means that this column is at the rear of the spinal cord.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The posterior column (dorsal column) refers to the area of white matter in the middle to posterior side of the spinal cord. It is made up of the gracile fasciculus and the cuneate fasciculus and itself is part of the posterior funiculus. It is part of an ascending pathway that is important for well-localized fine touch and conscious proprioception called the posterior column-medial lemniscus pathway.
Posterior column–medial lemniscus pathway (PCML) (also known as the dorsal column-medial lemniscus pathway) is a sensory pathway of the central nervous system that conveys localized sensations of fine touch, vibration, two-point discrimination, and proprioception (position sense) from the skin and joints. The name comes from the two structures that the sensation travels up: the posterior (or dorsal) column of the spinal cord, and the medial lemniscus in the brainstem. The PCML pathway is composed of rapidly conducting, large, myelinated fibers.
Guest post! The Medial Lemniscus-Dorsal Column pathway is an ascending spinal tract, carrying sensory information to the brain. It is typically depicted as a chain of three neurons: first-, second-, and third-order neurons. This pathway mediates: 
The name comes from the two structures that the sensation travels up: the posterior (or dorsal) columns of the spinal cord, and the medial lemniscus in the brainstem. Because the posterior columns are also called dorsal columns, the pathway is often called the dorsal column-medial lemniscus system, or DCML for short. The PCML pathway is composed of rapidly conducting, large, myelinated fibers.
see chromatography. dorsal column. the dorsal portion of the gray substance of the spinal cord, in transverse section seen as a horn. gray column. the longitudinally oriented parts of the spinal cord in which the nerve cell bodies are found, comprising the gray matter of the spinal cord. The triangular (in cross-section) sector of white matter demarcated by the dorsal midline (the dorsal median sulcus) and the dorsal horn on each side of the spinal cord. The dorsal column is a large bundle of ipsilateral primary sensory axons. See also: column.