The most recent arrival is called Skagit Indian smoked salmon. It is prepared in a centuries-old tradition-adapted to modern tastes-by members of the Upper Skagit tribe in the northern Cascade region of Washington State. The Indians of the Pacific Northwest used to cur e salmon in alderwood smo ke to preserve it.
Remarkably, the tobacco they brought for the Indians was produced by the Indians in the Brazilian Amazon. “It is a bewitching weed amongst all the natives”, was the opinion of one trader. It was this Amazonian variety that the Indians in the north much preferred.
The Native Americans considered tobacco to be a sacred and powerful plant. If help was needed from the spirit world, sometimes tobacco would be offered in return for help. It was believed that the smoke from the Native American peace pipe carried prayers up to the heavens. You can make your own peace pipe. The most desired material to make a peace pipe bowl from is the red pipestone.
The Native American peace pipe is not restricted to being used only be Native Americans, but it is a spiritual thing and what it symbolizes must be respected by everyone attending the ceremony. Other types of pipes used in ceremonies were the medicine pipe and the war pipe.
The Indian that carried the peace pipe was often allowed to pass through enemy territory out of respect. The war pipe had red feathers symbolizing blood and was smoked before going into battle. What a Native American peace pipe is made of may vary from tribe to tribe.
The indians used the peace pipe for tobacco. They smoked nicotania rustica, a more potent tobacco plant than we smoke today. It was called a peace pipe because smoking it would make you unable to be violent during a meeting because it would be hard to move.
Bluestone is hard quartzite that is greenish blue. Found in the Appalachian Mountains, it was used for the bowl of a pipe by the Cherokee, Creek, and Chickasaw as well. The Eastern, Western, Great Basin and Plains Tribes often used red pipestone (also known as catlinite) to make their Native American peace pipes.
What the Indians really smoked in their peace pipes. Posted on September 23, 2013 by Jim. In the pioneer days tobacco was sold in pretzel-like twists weighing about an ounce, and referred to as a “carrot”. They were ubiquitous throughout the west, part of every story and included in every important meeting.