Raw offal (organ meat such as liver, heart, kidneys, brains, lung, pancreas, spleen) from a variety of meat sources should be fed for one or two meals per week or 10% of the diet. Some dogs do not like the texture of organ meats and need to have it lightly seared to change the texture. The approximate ratio to aim for overall is: 80% meat, sinew, ligaments, fat 10% edible bone 5% liver 5% other organ meat. Meats are high in phosphorus, bones are high in calcium. When meat is fed with 10% bone you have the exact ratios of calcium to phosphorus required by a dog. Whole prey, fish, eggs and tripe have a balanced ratio
Tripe is a muscle meat, but also considered offal and should be fed as part of the 70-80% meat content in your dogs raw diet. To decide how much to feed as part of this percentage, we try to visualise the whole animal and estimate what proportion or percentage of it would be made up of its tripe, or stomach linings. 
The basic organs meats are the liver, kidneys and brains of the animal. These should be fed in small amounts-especially the liver-as they are very rich and can cause stomach upset in some dogs. The organ meat we use most frequently is liver. Since the majority or our dogs raw meaty bones are fowl based (chicken or turkey) I use red meat based liver or kidneys (beef, deer or bison) for their organ meats. A common misconception about liver is that it has lots of toxins in it
If my dogs need to lose weight I feed less FOOD, not less fat. Muscle Meat-basically this is any meat without bones. Boneless Chicken breasts, ground beef, turkey breast, beef or bison steaks, beef/pork heart (it really is a muscle and not an organ), pork butt, lamb, deer meat, fish fillets etc. Any meat without bones in it. Our mainstay muscle meat is heart-beef and pork
You can get some of these other foods, including muscle meat and organ meat, from Bravo! or at your grocery store. Most raw diet products are quite high in fat. Be sure to use mostly low-fat additions when the base of the diet is high in fat (10% fat or more). Or you might feed just muscle meat one day, with a mix of organ meat, eggs, and dairy the next. Many raw feeders feed two meals a day: one meal of raw meaty bones and one meal of everything else. Following are sample diets for a 40-pound (18 kg) dog. Remember that amounts will vary depending on the individual dog.
Muscle meat consists of all meat that is not considered organ meat. Feed muscle meat from a variety of sources, such as beef, lamb, pork, chicken, and turkey. Use lean meats, preferably 10% fat or less, and remove skin from poultry unless you are feeding very low-fat breast or your dog is extremely active. Muscle meat can be fed ground or in chunks. Or you might feed just muscle meat one day, with a mix of organ meat, eggs, and dairy the next. Many raw feeders feed two meals a day: one meal of raw meaty bones and one meal of everything else. Following are sample diets for a 40-pound (18 kg) dog. Remember that amounts will vary depending on the individual dog.
Muscle meat such as the heart, while technically a body organ, is not considered an organ meat. Organs such as the liver and kidneys filter toxins in the body. This is why organ meats should be used in limited quantities up to 10% of the total diet. 
According to most raw feeders, dogs should eat muscle meat (hamburger, chicken, turkey), as well as a healthy array of organ meat (heart, liver, kidneys), whole fish and raw meaty bones (RMBs). Cooked bones are dangerous and should never be fed, as cooking leaves the bones brittle and prone to splintering. The second, the “prey-model” diet, strictly mimics what proponents believe would be the animal’s natural diet in the wild. Whole rabbits or game hens, for example, are often offered to the dog. This diet recommends 80 percent muscle meat, 10 percent bone and 10 percent organ meat, and nothing more. Starting Out.