The story of ATONEMENT begins on one summer s day in 1935 in a country house in Sussex where 13-year-old Briony, (SAOIRSE RONAN), witnesses confusing encounters between her older sister Cecilia, (KEIRA KNIGHTLEY) and Robbie, (JAMES McAVOY). 
The last we see of Cecilia is when she and Robbie escort Briony back to the subway station following a visit in which forgiveness for her sister's malice crime is never granted. In the end, we learn Cecilia was killed in a bombing in a London train station during the war. Briony grows up to serve as a nurse in London during World War Two. She also begins to write while in London, and by the end of the book we meet Briony as a 77 year old who has just learned of a terminal illness (vascular dementia).
Danny Hardman is fully exonerated by Briony when she informs Cecilia and Robbie that it was a man fitting the size and description of Paul Marshall whom she saw on top of Lola. Danny Hardman joins the British Navy to fight in the war against the Germans (262). Briony grows up to serve as a nurse in London during World War Two. She also begins to write while in London, and by the end of the book we meet Briony as a 77 year old who has just learned of a terminal illness (vascular dementia).
The film stars James McAvoy, Keira Knightley, Saoirse Ronan, Romola Garai, and Vanessa Redgrave, chronicles a crime and its consequences over the course of six decades, beginning in the 1930s. It was produced by Working Title Films and filmed in England. The film also opened the 2007 Vancouver International Film Festival. Atonement was released in the United Kingdom and Ireland on 7 September 2007, and in North America on 7 December 2007. Worldwide distribution was managed by Universal Studios, with minor releases through other divisions.
as depicted in Atonement. In Atonement, directed by Joe Wright and adapted by Christopher Hampton from Ian McEwan's novel, we see visualized one of the low points in the Allies' war against Hitler — the British evacuation of Dunkirk between May 26 and June 4, 1940. Robbie Turner (James McAvoy) arrives in Bray-Dunes outside of Dunkirk, France. (At the time, 50 years had passed since the end of that war.) The Birth of a Nation, adapted from Thomas Dixon's 1905 novel, The Clansman, an homage to the Ku Klux Klan, was the most profitable film ever made-that is up until 1937 when it was surpassed by Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.
The film grossed $129,266,061 worldwide. The film was released in the United Kingdom and Ireland on 7 September 2007, and grossed £11,557,134. It was also given a limited release in North America on 7 December, and grossed $784,145 during its opening weekend, posting a per-cinema average of $24,504 in 32 cinemas. The film also opened the 2007 Vancouver International Film Festival. Atonement was released in the United Kingdom and Ireland on 7 September 2007, and in North America on 7 December 2007. Worldwide distribution was managed by Universal Studios, with minor releases through other divisions.
The new project would be another classic British romance from a great book; Ian McEwan's award-winning best-selling novel Atonement was already in development at Working Title with producer Robert Fox and director Richard Eyre. But, as Bevan reports, Richard took on another movie and had a stage commitment as well. 
Fledgling writer Briony Tallis, as a 13-year-old, irrevocably changes the course of several lives when she accuses her older sister's lover of a crime he did not commit. Based on the British romance novel by Ian McEwan. It is a really great movie. Obviously it is early days yet, and there are a lot of contenders still to appear, but Atonement might just be the winner-in-waiting of the Best Film Oscar in 2008. Put your money on it now.Atonement is pure poetry on film.
Atonement is a 2007 British romantic drama war film directed by Joe Wright and based on Ian McEwan 's 2001 novel of the same name. The film also opened the 2007 Vancouver International Film Festival. Atonement was released in the United Kingdom and Ireland on 7 September 2007, and in North America on 7 December 2007. Worldwide distribution was managed by Universal Studios, with minor releases through other divisions.