Acne myths. These factors have little effect on acne: 1  Greasy foods. 2  Eating greasy food has little to no effect on acne. 3  Though working in a greasy area, such as a kitchen with fry vats, does because the oil can stick to the skin and block the hair follicles. 4  This further irritates the skin or promotes acne. 5  Dirty skin. These areas of skin have the most oil (sebaceous) glands. Acne occurs when hair follicles become plugged with oil and dead skin cells. Hair follicles are connected to oil glands. These glands secrete an oily substance (sebum) to lubricate your hair and skin.
Skin types include normal, oily, dry, and sensitive. Some people also have a combination of skin types in different areas of their skin. Your skin type can change over time. For example, younger people are more likely than older people to have a normal skin type. A combination skin type can be dry or normal in some areas and oily in others, such as the T-zone (nose, forehead, and chin). Many people have combination skin, which may benefit from slightly different types of skin care in different areas. Combination skin can produce: 1  Overly dilated pores. 2  Blackheads. 3  Shiny skin.
Maybe. Oil in the skin, known as sebum, is definitely a contributor to acne. However, not all patients with oily skin break out. Plus, there are some people with dry skin who have acne. There are a few main factors that cause acne: 1  sticky skin cells on the surface of the hair follicles. 2  oil production. So, yes, there is a connection between acne and oily skin, but the story doesn't end there. Not everyone with oily skin has acne, and drying the skin out doesn't cure acne. The second cause of acne, besides teenage hormones, is heredity.
Skin types include normal, oily, dry and sensitive. Some people also have a combination of skin types in different areas of their skin. Your skin type can change over time. For example, younger people are more likely than older people to have a normal skin type. Skin types vary depending upon a combination of factors. A combination skin type can be dry or normal in some areas, and oily in others, such as the T-zone. The T-zone is the nose, forehead, and chin area.
Oily skin is a term commonly used to identify skin that feels ‘oily’ or appears ‘shiny’, especially the skin of the face. Before investigating the cause of your oily skin, it is important to first identify if this ‘oiliness’ is a natural phenomenon or due to poor hygiene and topical applications. Contrary to popular belief, your diet has a limited effect on the oiliness of the skin. A common myth is that oily foods, especially foods like chocolates and peanut butter, may increase the oil production. Alcohol is often thought to be responsible as well.
1 Dirt: Some individuals have more oily skin than others (as mentioned above, blackheads are oxidized oil, not dirt). 2  Sweat does not cause acne; therefore, it is not necessary to shower instantly after exercise for fear that sweat will clog pores. 3  On the other hand, excessive washing can dry and irritate the skin. 
Oil in the skin, known as sebum, is definitely a contributor to acne. However, not all patients with oily skin break out. Plus, there are some people with dry skin who have acne. There are a few main factors that cause acne: 1  sticky skin cells on the surface of the hair follicles. So, yes, there is a connection between acne and oily skin, but the story doesn't end there. Not everyone with oily skin has acne, and drying the skin out doesn't cure acne. The second cause of acne, besides teenage hormones, is heredity.
Oily Skin Causes. People with oily skin often wonder what they're doing to cause the problem. They may blame it on the greasy pizza they ate last night, but the truth is they should probably blame their genes. Diet can aggravate acne, but it doesn't cause oily skin [source: WebMD ]. Oily skin is hereditary -- you can change your diet or change your lifestyle, but if your mom or dad has oily skin, chances are you will, too. However, if your oily skin comes and goes, it may have less to do with genes and more to do with hormonal shifts in your body. 