DIY Record Cleaning Machine By Frank Gales This is the description of a record cleaning machine I built. It uses an industrial wet vacuum cleaner with 1000W to suck the cleaning fluid from the record. The fluid is applied by swinging a tube over the record and pumping with a manual pump. I use a professional brush from a Moth record cleaning machine. After that the sucking tube is swinged onto the record (please don't forget to glue the velvet onto the tube, or the first record you cleaned is cleaned to death) and the vacuum cleaner is switched on.
DIY Record Cleaner-Part 1 steps to build. I think its a given that the best possible solution for cleaning records is the wet clean, vacuum type. Machines such as the VPI, etc. which range from approx. $400 to the $1000's. I like my vinyl clean. It reduces noise and wear. I also like convienance. 
Please try again later. This vinyl record cleaning machine is my DIY version of the Loricraft or Keith Monks machines which use a vacuum pump and a thin nylon thread to act as a buffer between the vacuum nozzle and the record. These types of machines are much, much quieter than the ones that use a vacuum cleaner motor. They also don't use any velvet brushes and the only thing touching the record is the thread, which gets advanced every cleaning cycle so it is always clean. The arm uses a magnetic connection to the motor shaft
The simplest DIY Cleaning Machine consists of a sturdy record player (Lenco or Goldring) that can play at high speed (78 to 80 RPM), a nylon brush, a carefully constructed mouth piece with soft lining, a glass jar with screwable lid, plastic transparent tube, and an old vacuum cleaner or other effective pump. As a hobbyist and a collector I offer to clean records for other collectors. CHOOSE ANOTHER TOPIC Professional Record Cleaning For Hobbyists. I have spoken to many record collectors. What struck me was that many have invested in cartridges of $2000 and even $3000 or $7000.
In Search of Musical Ecstasy! Product: DIY ultrasonic record cleaner Company: not for sale, TNT-Audio free DIY design Approx. cost: 260$ (ultrasonic cleaner) + 100$ (all the necessary bits) Author: Chris Templer-TNT SouthAfrica Published: February, 2013. 
Well It is final done. I completed my first DIY Record Cleaning Machine yesterday and it turned out pretty good IMO. I originally started to mimic VPI's Record cleaning machine looking at various designs on the net. I will try to explain what I did the best I can with out going into too much detail. 
DIY Record Cleaning Machine By Frank Gales. This is the description of a record cleaning machine I built. It uses an industrial wet vacuum cleaner with 1000W to suck the cleaning fluid from the record. The fluid is applied by swinging a tube over the record and pumping with a manual pump. I use a professional brush from a Moth record cleaning machine. After that the sucking tube is swinged onto the record (please don't forget to glue the velvet onto the tube, or the first record you cleaned is cleaned to death) and the vacuum cleaner is switched on.
a DIY record vacuum cleaning machine. the case is made of perspex, cut using a CNC router. the vacuum motor was salvaged from a Sanyo 1600W vacuum cleaner bought from a thrift store, it is hooked up to a motor speed control card that limits the power of the vacuum. the record cleaning fluid is also DIY, made with 3 parts deionised water, 1 part isopropyl alcohol and 1 drop of dishwashing fluid. the brush is a good quality wet cleaning brush with sturdy nylon bristles to get the grit and muck out of the grooves and the vacuum will suck that all away.