Eye twitching is a repetitive, uncontrollable blinking or spasm of the eyelid, usually the upper lid. Eye twitching (blepharospasm) usually affects the eye muscles of both eyes. If you have eye twitching, you may have an involuntary movement that recurs every several seconds for a minute or two. 
Eye twitching is a series of rapid, uncontrolled contractions or spasms of one or all four eyelids. The twitches often occur in irregular rhythms. The medical term for this symptom is myokymia. 
Eye Twitching, also known as blepharospasm or myokymia, is a sudden, involuntary movement of the eyelid; it is also referred to as an eye muscle spasm. These spasms often occur in stressful situations or when the affected individual has gone too long without sufficient rest. 
DEFINITION of Myokymia. Myokymia is the medical name for eyelid twitching. Myokymia is spontaneous contracture of the eyelid muscles, usually the orbicularis oculi muscle. Myokymia is usually unilateral (one eye only) and more often involves the lower eyelid instead of the upper. SIGNS & SYMPTOMS of Myokymia (Eyelid Twitch) Rapid twitching/flutter movement of the eyelid (either upper or lower lid) is the sign and the symptom of myokymia. The eyelid twitch may last a day or a month or longer.
Essentially, myokymia is a twitch -- an involuntary muscle spasm in the upper eyelid muscle that causes a fluttery sensation. The trick to stopping it, according to Thau, is to break the twitch.. She recommends trying alternating hot and cold compresses, which can soothe the overactive nerve that's causing the spasm. 
A twitching eye can be one sign of stress, especially when it is related to vision problems such as eye strain (see below). Reducing the cause of the stress can help make the twitching stop. Tiredness: A lack of sleep, whether because of stress or some other reason, can trigger a twitching eyelid. Eye strain: Vision-related stress can occur if, for instance, you need glasses or a change of glasses. Your eyes may be working too hard, triggering eyelid twitching. Computer eye strain from overuse of computers, tablets and smartphones is also a very common cause of vision-related stress.
In its most common form, eye twitching is harmless and stops on its own, although it may recur occasionally. Sometimes, eye twitching may be the earliest sign of a chronic movement disorder, especially if other facial spasms develop in addition to the eye twitching. Usually, however, there is no identifiable cause. Some of the causes of eyelid spasms that have been identified include: 1  Alcohol intake. 2  Bright lights. 
Almost all sudden-onset eyelid twitching is benign, meaning the condition is not serious or a sign of a medical problem. However, this kind of eye twitching also can be hard to treat. The only option for making the twitching stop may be to figure out the cause and deal with it. Eye strain: Vision-related stress can occur if, for instance, you need glasses or a change of glasses. Your eyes may be working too hard, triggering eyelid twitching. Computer eye strain from overuse of computers, tablets and smartphones is also a very common cause of vision-related stress.
Eyelid twitch or twitching is a series of rapid, uncontrolled contractions or spasms of one or all four eyelids. The twitches often occur in irregular rhythms. The medical term for this symptom is myokymia. Eyelid twitch may occur with other eye symptoms, such as watery eyes and irritated or red eyes or eyelids. Sometimes eyelid twitch appears along with facial tics, which are other involuntary movements of the face including grimacing and nose twitching.
Photo Credit eye image by Pali A from Fotolia.com. Eyelid fluttering or twitching, called myokymia, often starts suddenly and seemingly from nowhere. Lid myokymia generally affects only one eye and should not be confused with blepharospasm, a more forceful closure of the lids, always affecting both eyelids. If the surface of your eyes or inner eyelids is irritated, your lids may start reacting by twitching. Conditions such as dry eye, a foreign body or an eye allergy can cause myokymia. If your sudden onset of myokymia coincides with a feeling of irritation and discomfort in your eyes, getting an eye exam is a good idea.