Joelle is a Spanish form of the name Joel. The name Joel is an Anglicized form of the Hebrew name Yoel (יוֹאֵל). It is derived from the Hebrew elements yo an abbreviated form for the Name of the Lord and el an abbreviated form of elohim meaning G-d. View the Joelle Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Joelle has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Joelle to other names.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Joelle and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Joelle and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Joelle we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
It is used mainly in English, French, and German. The meaning of Joelle is 'Yahweh is God'. It is a biblical name derived from yahweh 'name of God ' ; el which means 'God, powerful '. The generic name has been used in the Old Testament of the Bible. Joelle is the feminine equivalent of the English and German Joel. Joelle is a widely used name; it has 29 forms that are used in English and foreign languages.
See also the related form, the name Marie Joelle. Joelle is unusual as a baby girl name. Its usage peaked modestly in 1966 with 0.023% of baby girls being named Joelle. It was #468 in rank then. The baby name has markedly dropped in popularity since then, and is used only on an infrequent scale now. The generic name has been used in the Old Testament of the Bible. Joelle is the feminine equivalent of the English and German Joel. Joelle is a widely used name; it has 29 forms that are used in English and foreign languages.
Joelle /joel-le/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced joh-EL. It is of French origin, and the meaning of Joelle is Jehovah is God . Feminine of Joel. It can also be taken as a combination of Jo and the feminine suffix-elle. Actresses Joely Fisher, Joely Richardson. How popular is Joelle? Joelle is a very prominent first name for women (#1326 out of 4276, Top 31%) but an unusual last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Joelle for girls
Forms used in foreign languages include the French Joelle joëlle and The Hebrew. Yoela see also the related, form the Name Marie. Joelle joelle is unusual as a baby girl. Name its usage peaked modestly in 1966 with.0023 % of baby girls being Named. Joelle it #was 468 in rank. then The generic name has been used in the Old Testament of the Bible. Joelle is the feminine equivalent of the English and German Joel. Joelle is a widely used name; it has 29 forms that are used in English and foreign languages.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Joelle is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Joelle is: Jehovah is God. American Meaning: The name Joelle is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Joelle is: Jehovah is God. French Meaning: The name Joelle is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Joelle is: Jehovah is God. Feminine of Joel.
Joelle Name Meaning. The meaning of Joelle is “God is Willing; Feminine form of Joel”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Joelle we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
This doesn't mean that the name Joelle is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US. If you consider naming your baby Joelle we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.