The First Discovery of DNA. Few remember the man who discovered the molecule of life three-quarters of a century before Watson and Crick revealed its structure. Ralf Dahm. Ralf Dahm. Most everybody knows that DNA contains the blueprint for life. The names of Watson and Crick, the first scientists to figure out the structure of DNA in the 1950s, are also widely recognized. But left obscure in history is the name of the chemist who first isolated the DNA molecule itself.
The Discovery of DNA's Structure. Taken in 1952, this image is the first X-ray picture of DNA, which led to the discovery of its molecular structure by Watson and Crick. Created by Rosalind Franklin using a technique called X-ray crystallography, it revealed the helical shape of the DNA molecule. For their work, Watson, Crick, and Wilkins received the Nobel Prize in 1962. Despite her contribution to the discovery of DNA's helical structure, Rosalind Franklin was not named a prize winner: She had died of cancer four years earlier, at the age of 37.
Friedrich Miescher (1844-1895). Friedrich (Fritz) Miescher was born in Basel, Switzerland. The Miescher family was well-respected and part of the intellectual elite in Basel. Friedrich's father was a physician and taught pathological anatomy; Friedrich's uncle, Wilhelm His, was a well-known embryologist. 
Who discovered DNA? This is the story of the Nobel Prize Winners Wilkins, Crick and Watson and DNA discovery/development. In 1953, when they created the model of DNA double helix, it was regarded as an enormous achievement in fields of molecular genetics and biochemistry. For their work Crick, Watson, and Wilkins were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962.
Many people believe that American biologist James Watson and English physicist Francis Crick discovered DNA in the 1950s. In reality, this is not the case. Rather, DNA was first identified in the late 1860s by Swiss chemist Friedrich Miescher. In fact, Watson and Crick were worried that they would be scooped by Pauling, who proposed a different model for the three-dimensional structure of DNA just months before they did. In the end, however, Pauling's prediction was incorrect.
First isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869 and with its molecular structure first identified by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953, DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses
The discovery of deoxyribonucleic acid, otherwise known as DNA, was made by Frederick Miescher, but the structure was discovered by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953. Rosalind Franklin produced vital images of DNA through x-ray crystallography with which Watson and Crick were able to deduce the structure of DNA. The discovery of DNA is credited to two molecular biologists, James D Watson and Francis Crick. The double helix model of DNA is named after them and known as the Watson and C … rick model. Despite this, there are some disputes on who actually discovered DNA.
FRIEDRICH MIESCHER, THE MAN WHO DISCOVERED DNA. A historical account of the discovery of DNA in 1869, including a brief biography of Miescher and a description of the historical context and of the emergence of research schools. The undertaking started off as a wild-goose chase.Hoping to find Miescher's laboratory notebooks he went to Basel and visited the F. Miescher Institute, which is part of the pharmaceutical company Novartis.
Rosalind Franklin took x-ray photographs of DNA, these picture helped James Watson Crick and Francis Crick discover the structure of DNA. The discovery of DNA is credited to two molecular biologists, James D Watson and Francis Crick. The double helix model of DNA is named after them and known as the Watson and C … rick model. Despite this, there are some disputes on who actually discovered DNA.