Interest-rate swaps are agreements for two parties to exchange payments on a certain principal, or loan balance amount. These complex agreements help two parties hedge, or manage, their interest-rate risks. Interest-rate risks relate to shifts in interest rates that adversely affect your bottom line. 
Introduction. An interest rate swap is a contractual agreement between two counterparties to exchange cash flows on particular dates in the future. There are two types of legs (or series of cash flows). A fixed rate payer makes a series of fixed payments and at the outset of the swap, these cash flows are known. To value a swap, the present value of cash flows of each leg of the transaction must be determined. In an interest rate swap, the fixed leg is fairly straightforward since the cash flows are specified by the coupon rate set at the time of the agreement.
Definition. An exchange of interest payments on a specific principal amount. This is a counterparty agreement, and so can be standardized to the requirements of the parties involved. An interest rate swap usually involves just two parties, but occasionally involves more. Often, an interest rate swap involves exchanging a fixed amount per payment period for a payment that is not fixed (the floating side of the swap would usually be linked to another interest rate, often the LIBOR).
An agreement between two parties (known as counterparties) where one stream of future interest payments is exchanged for another based on a specified principal amount. Interest rate swaps often exchange a fixed payment for a floating payment that is linked to an interest rate (most often the LIBOR). Interest rate swaps are simply the exchange of one set of cash flows (based on interest rate specifications) for another. Because they trade OTC, they are really just contracts set up between two or more parties, and thus can be customized in any number of ways.
Consider the following swap in which Party A agrees to pay Party B periodic fixed interest rate payments of 8.65% in exchange for periodic variable interest rate payments of LIBOR + 70 bps (0.70%) in the same currency. The most common interest rate swap involves counterparty A paying a fixed rate (the swap rate) to counterparty B while receiving a floating rate indexed to a reference rate like LIBOR, EURIBOR, or MIBOR.
Generally, the two parties in an interest rate swap are trading a fixed-rate and variable-interest rate. For example, one company may have a bond that pays the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), while the other party holds a bond that provides a fixed payment of 5%. 1 Terms of the swap. 2  Be clear about the terms under which you’re exchanging interest rates. 3  You’ll need to carefully weigh the required frequency of payments (annually, quarterly, or monthly). 4  Also decide on the structure of the payments: whether you’ll use an amortizing plan, bullet structure, or zero-coupon method.
An interest rate swap (IRS) is a liquid financial derivative instrument in which two parties agree to exchange interest rate cash flows, based on a specified notional amount from a fixed rate to a floating rate (or vice versa) or from one floating rate to another. The most common interest rate swap involves counterparty A paying a fixed rate (the swap rate) to counterparty B while receiving a floating rate indexed to a reference rate like LIBOR, EURIBOR, or MIBOR.
How it works/Example: The most common type of interest rate swap is one in which Party A agrees to make payments to Party B based on a fixed interest rate, and Party B agrees to make payments to Party A based on a floating interest rate. One more thing to note is that in an interest rate swap, the parties never exchange the principal amounts. On the payment date, it is only the difference between the fixed and variable interest amounts that is paid; there is no exchange of the full interest amounts.
In an interest rate swap, each counterparty agrees to pay either a fixed or floating rate denominated in a particular currency to the other counterparty. The fixed or floating rate is multiplied by a notional principal amount (say, $1 million) and an accrual factor given by the appropriate day count convention. The most common interest rate swap involves counterparty A paying a fixed rate (the swap rate) to counterparty B while receiving a floating rate indexed to a reference rate like LIBOR, EURIBOR, or MIBOR.