Athena is associated with Athens, a plural name because it was the place where she presided over her sisterhood, the Athenai, in earliest times: Mycenae was the city where the Goddess was called Mykene, and Mycenae is named in the plural for the sisterhood of females who tended her there.
Aphrodite-Apollo-Ares-Artemis-Athena-Demeter-Dionysus-Hephaestus-Hera-Hermes-Poseidon-Zeus-Others home easy read ATHENA (a-THEE-nuh; Roman name Minerva) was the goddess of crafts and the domestic arts and also those of war. She was the patron goddess of Athens. Her symbol was the owl. She was originally the Great Goddess in the form of a bird. By the late Classic, she had come to be regarded as a goddess of wisdom Zeus was once married to Metis, a daughter of Ocean who was renowned for her wisdom.
Similarly, Athena was called Mykene in the city of Mycenae (also a plural after the respective sisterhood), and Thebe in the city of Thebes (or Thebae, both plural forms). More: Birth of Athena, Zeus, Poseidon, Theogony. Athena Is also called Minerva, Athina, Athene.
Athena was the Greek virgin goddess of reason, intelligent activity, arts and literature. She was the daughter of Zeus; her birth is unique in that she did not have a mother. Instead, she sprang full grown and clad in armour from Zeus ' forehead.
The name Athena is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Athena is: Goddess of wisdom. American Meaning: The name Athena is an American baby name. In American
Greek Goddess of Wisdom and War. Athena, also referred to as Athene, is a very important goddess of many things. She is goddess of wisdom, courage, inspiration, civilization, law and justice, strategic warfare, mathematics, strength, strategy, the arts, crafts, and skill.
Guenther Günther neumann has suggested That'athena s name is possibly Of lydian; origin it may be a compound word derived in part From tyrrhenian, ati meaning mother and the name of The hurrian  Goddess  hannahannah shortened in various places To Ana:Template citation. needed