Answer gastritis and ulcers Gastritis is not a single disease, it is immflammation of the stomach lining and has many causes from drinking too much to a bacteria in the stomach. They're caused by the same thing, but gastric refers specifically to the stomach while peptic can include the small intestine. In oth … er words, the main difference between gastric ulcer and peptic ulcer is location.
Ulcers and gastritis are considerably different from each other. Gastritis is a disease of the stomach in which there is an inflammation. There is inflammation because there is too much secretion of gastric juices. Ulcers, on the other hand, is a scarring of the surface of an organ or even the skin. But the vomit’s color depends on the extent of the damage unlike in ulcers which is bloody. Both conditions are treatable with medications and antibiotics. Summary: 1.Gastritis is the inflammation of the stomach while an ulcer is the erosion of the surface of the stomach or even the gastrointestinal tract. 2.Ulcers and gastritis can be mainly caused by bacteria, but ulcers can be caused by stress
Gastritis is actually the inflammation of the stomach lining, while ulcers occur when the stomach lining develops holes through which the acid burns the stomach. Gastritis is a medical condition in which the internal stomach lining becomes inflamed or swollen due to excessive production of stomach acid. Treatment for the condition usually includes antacids (to reduce production of stomach acid), avoiding hot and spicy food, antibiotics (incase of bacterial infection) and lifestyle changes. Ulcer is a disease that is caused by bacteria, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria to be exact. This species of bacteria has a spiral shape that allows it to swim through the mucous lining of the stomach and produce substances that weaken the mucous lining
A Peptic Ulcer is an open sore in the lining of the stomach or duodenum (upper intestine). The most common cause of peptic ulcer disease is a bacterial infection (H pylori) in the stomach. Another common cause is taking anti-inflammatory medications (such as ibuprofen, prednisone, and aspirin). Gastritis is an irritation of the stomach lining. It can be acute (recent) or chronic (lasting a long time). The symptoms of gastritis and peptic ulcer are very similar. Both can cause a dull ache or burning pain in the upper abdomen. Other symptoms include nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and belching or bloating. Blood in the vomit or stools (red or black) is a sign of bleeding in the stomach
Gastritis can be a cause of H.pylori, a bacteria, that can thrive in the stomach. This bacteria when it multiplies into the millions will definitely cause infection. Another cause of gastritis is by taking NSAIDS or pain relievers as well as aspirin. These drugs reduce the capacity of prostaglandin to protect the stomach from too much acidic reaction. Ulcers or peptic ulcers or peptic ulcer disease, PUD, is also a gastrointestinal disease. But the vomit’s color depends on the extent of the damage unlike in ulcers which is bloody. Both conditions are treatable with medications and antibiotics. Summary: 1.Gastritis is the inflammation of the stomach while an ulcer is the erosion of the surface of the stomach or even the gastrointestinal tract. 2.Ulcers and gastritis can be mainly caused by bacteria, but ulcers can be caused by stress
Mild to severe hemorrhage is the most common complication of peptic ulcer disease. Symptoms include hematemesis (vomiting of fresh blood or “coffee ground” material); passage of bloody stools (hematochezia) or black tarry stools (melena); and weakness, orthostasis, syncope, thirst, and sweating caused by blood loss. 
Bacteria such as Helicobacter pylori, known for causing ulcers, can also be a reason for gastritis. When suffering from gastritis, the patient usually experiences abdominal pain caused by the stomach acid irritating the inflamed or swollen stomach lining. Constant gastritis can also cause ulcers. Treatment for the condition usually includes antacids (to reduce production of stomach acid), avoiding hot and spicy food, antibiotics (incase of bacterial infection) and lifestyle changes. Ulcer is a disease that is caused by bacteria, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria to be exact. This species of bacteria has a spiral shape that allows it to swim through the mucous lining of the stomach and produce substances that weaken the mucous lining