A charge (or mortgage) is the security a company gives for a loan. Most charges must be registered at Companies House. The registration need not be by the company itself-in most cases, registration is by the lender or the lender’s agent. To register a charge, the details of the charge together with the original document creating or evidencing the charge, must be delivered to Companies House within the specified time limit.
This form can be used to register particulars of a mortgage or charge created on or after 6 April 2013 by a UK registered company. There is a cost of £13 to file the paper form. It is easier and quicker to file form MR01 online at a cost of £10.
You must deliver your application to register a charge within 21 days of the creation of the charge to ensure its security in the event of liquidation. You will need a court order to register it outside the 21-day limit. Registration of Charges. 1. Charges you must register at Companies House.
Detail. This form can be used to register particulars of a mortgage or charge created on or after 6 April 2013 by a UK registered company. There is a cost of £13 to file the paper form. It is easier and quicker to file form MR01 online at a cost of £10.
1 If the charge affects land it may also need to registered at the Land Registry (or in the case of unregistered land with the registrar of land charges). 2  The company must keep a copy of every charge on its property (CA 2006, sec890) and its own register of charges (sec891).
A charge will be void unless it is registered within 21 days and, as a consequence, will be void against a liquidator, administrator or any creditor of the Company. The petitioners were therefore left unsecured unless the court allowed them to register their charges late.
1 The company must keep a copy of every charge on its property (CA 2006, sec890) and its own register of charges (sec891). 2  This is a statutory register to which the public has the same rights of access as to the register of members, etc.