The brain sends messages through the spinal cord and nerves of the peripheral nervous system to control the movement of the muscles and the function of internal organs. The basic working unit of the nervous system is a cell called a neuron. The human brain contains about 100 billion neurons. The peripheral nervous system is made up of the nerve fibers that branch off from the spinal cord and extend to all parts of the body, including the neck and arms, torso, legs, skeletal muscles and
Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium. 
1 The central nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord. 2  The peripheral nervous system is made up of the nerve fibers that branch off from the spinal cord and extend to all parts of the body, including the neck and arms, torso, legs, skeletal muscles and internal organs.
1 It connects a large part of the peripheral nervous system to the brain. 2  Information (nerve impulses) reaching the spinal cord through sensory neurons are transmitted up into the brain. 3  Signals arising in the motor areas of the brain travel back down the cord and leave in the motor neurons. 1 all the sensory axons pass into the dorsal root ganglion where their cell bodies are located and then on into the spinal cord itself. 2  all the motor axons pass into the ventral roots before uniting with the sensory axons to form the mixed nerves. 3 
Central nervous system. Like your brain, your spinal cord is part of your central nervous system. Its main function is to relay information about what's happening inside and outside your body to and from your brain. Peripheral nervous system. 31 pairs of spinal nerves connect your spinal cord to the rest of your body. These nerves are part of your peripheral nervous system. They carry information in the form of nerve impulses from your spinal cord to the rest of your body and from your body to your spinal cord. 
By way of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), nerve impulses travel to and from the brain through the spinal cord to a specific location in the body. The PNS is a complex system of nerves that branch off from the spinal nerve roots. The spinal cord is an extension of the central nervous system (CNS), which consists of the brain and spinal cord. It begins at the bottom of the brain stem (at the area called the medulla oblongata), and it ends in the lower back as it tapers to form a cone called the conus medullaris.
The spinal cord is a long, thin, tubular bundle of nervous tissue and support cells that extends from the medulla oblongata in the brainstem to the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The brain and spinal cord together make up the central nervous system (CNS). The spinal cord begins at the occipital bone and extends down to the space between the first and second lumbar vertebrae; it does not extend the entire length of the vertebral column.
There are two sets of nerves: the central nervous system and the peripheral (outside) nervous system. The central nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral (outside) nervous system is all the other nerves in the body. The nerves are very close together. Special chemicals called neurotransmitters carry messages from one nerve to the next nerve. Drugs affect the body by changing the neurotransmitters in the nerves.
The central nervous system is made up of the spinal cord and the brain. The spinal cord is located in the middle of the back and connects the nerves in the body to the brain. Think of your brain as a great message center. The peripheral (outside) nervous system is all the other nerves in the body. The nerves are very close together. Special chemicals called neurotransmitters carry messages from one nerve to the next nerve. Drugs affect the body by changing the neurotransmitters in the nerves.
The spinal cord is the main pathway for information connecting the brain and peripheral nervous system. The human spinal cord is protected by the bony spinal column shown to the left. The spinal column is made up of bones called vertebrae. 