Dr. Rosenthal says lighting can alter our brain chemistry, leading to mood shifts. One of the best studied aspects of the effects on light on mood is related to the total amount of daylight present. Some people are exquisitely sensitive to this, and on dark days -- especially during the winter -- their mood plummets. The best explanation for this is that levels of the soothing brain chemical serotonin are at their lowest on dark days. 
When natural sunlight hits the skin, it triggers the body to produce vitamin D. Vitamin D is present in very few foods, but is necessary for proper calcium absorption. Sufficient calcium levels in the body prevent teeth and bone erosion, including osteoporosis. Treatments for lack of natural sunlight. Most parts of the world have three low-sunlight seasons, and the only way to absorb enough sunlight during these times is to get into natural sunlight to keep serotonin and melatonin levels from sinking.
Aromatherapy recipes for depression. Another way to combat the depressive symptoms of SAD rellies on herbs. Using aromatherapy for depression is a natural way to combat negative thoughts and promote relaxation. Many essential oils have calming or energizing properties that can benefit your mind. Treatments for lack of natural sunlight. Most parts of the world have three low-sunlight seasons, and the only way to absorb enough sunlight during these times is to get into natural sunlight to keep serotonin and melatonin levels from sinking.
Much of sunlight’s effect on mood is related to the visible light that hits your eyes. Remember, cycles of light and dark affect the production of certain hormones like melatonin, which in turn says a lot about our biological rhythms and moods. High-powered light-makers (not sun lamps, which emit dangerous ultraviolet radiation) mimic the sun’s effect on your brain, stabilizing serotonin, the chemical related to depression. Exercise also can help by releasing mood-boosting endorphins.
WebMD Health News. Dec. 5, 2002 -- A sunny day may do more than just boost your mood -- it may increase levels of a natural antidepressant in the brain. A new study shows that the brain produces more of the mood-lifting chemical serotonin on sunny days than on darker days. And the levels of serotonin were higher on bright days than on overcast or cloudy ones. In fact, the rate of serotonin production in the brain was directly related to the duration of bright sunlight. No other atmospheric conditions were related to serotonin levels.
Your skin and eyes should catch sunlight for 10 to 15 minutes a day, even early in the morning when the sun is not yet strong. Do not look directly into the sun, but glance peripherally at it for just a few seconds at a time. Treatments for lack of natural sunlight. Most parts of the world have three low-sunlight seasons, and the only way to absorb enough sunlight during these times is to get into natural sunlight to keep serotonin and melatonin levels from sinking.
It encourages us to produce vitamin D and protects us from seasonal mood changes. However, because society is more aware than ever of skin cancer and sun damage, most of us have significantly reduced our exposure to natural sunlight. Treatments for lack of natural sunlight. Most parts of the world have three low-sunlight seasons, and the only way to absorb enough sunlight during these times is to get into natural sunlight to keep serotonin and melatonin levels from sinking.
When the northern hemisphere is far from the sun during the winter months, some of us experience chemical changes in our brains that lead to depression. It’s called seasonal affective disorder, or SAD, and it affects 10% of Americans. Fortunately, there is an innovative solution to combat it. High-powered light-makers (not sun lamps, which emit dangerous ultraviolet radiation) mimic the sun’s effect on your brain, stabilizing serotonin, the chemical related to depression. Exercise also can help by releasing mood-boosting endorphins.
The more sunlight the body receives, the more serotonin the brain produces. In addition, the body also creates vitamin D from the sun's ultraviolet rays. High levels of vitamin D help our bodies maintain high levels of serotonin. High-powered light-makers (not sun lamps, which emit dangerous ultraviolet radiation) mimic the sun’s effect on your brain, stabilizing serotonin, the chemical related to depression. Exercise also can help by releasing mood-boosting endorphins.