Phenotype refers to observable, physical manifestations of an organism. The phenotype includes physical characteristics, behaviors corresponding to such species, structures, organs, behaviors, relfexes, etc. The genotype is the genetic programming that provides the phenotype. Genotype refers to the genetic traits in an organism. It has to do with the genetic coding of an organism. Such coding is inheritable. The genotype is the genetic load that is copied every time a cell divides, and therefore is inherited down to the next generation.
PHENOTYPE AND GENOTYPE. Definitions: phenotype is the constellation of observable traits; genotype is the genetic endowment of the individual. Phenotype = genotype + development (in a given environment). To consider these in the context of evolutionary biology, we want to know how these two are related. The genome in which a genotype is found can affect the expression of that genotype, and the environment can affect the phenotype. Not all pairs of alleles will have the same phenotype: dominance when AA = Aa in phenotype, A is dominant, a is recessive.
A phenotype (from Greek phainein, meaning to show, and typos, meaning type) is the composite of an organism 's observable characteristics or traits, such as its morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, phenology, behavior, and products of behavior (such as a bird's nest). A phenotype results from the expression of an organism's genes as well as the influence of environmental factors and the interactions between the two. When two or more clearly different phenotypes exist in the same population of a species, the species is called polymorph
Diffen › Science › Biology › Microbiology. The genotype of an organism is the genetic code in its cells. This genetic constitution of an individual influences – but is not solely responsible for – many of its traits. The phenotype is the visible or expressed trait, such as hair color. Genotype refers to the genetic makeup of a cell. For each individual trait (such as hair or eye color), a cell contains instructions on two alleles, which are alternative forms of the gene obtained from the mother and the father.
The genotype–phenotype distinction is drawn in genetics.  Genotype  is an organism's full hereditary information.  Phenotype  is an organism's actual observed properties, such as morphology, development, or behavior. This distinction is fundamental in the study of inheritance of traits and their evolution. 
Phenotype = Genotype + Environment. A phenotype is any detectable character istic of an organ ism (i.e. structural, biochemical, physiological and behavioral) determined by an inter action between its genotype and environment (see genotype-phenotype distinction and phenotypic plasticity for a ... 
Genotype-Definition: Genotype refers to the gene composition of an organism or cell for a given trait. Genotype is inherited through sexual reproduction and differs from phenotype. Phenotype refers to physical characteristics, such as height and color, that are expressed. An organism's genotype determines its phenotype. When the alleles for a given trait are homozygous, the genotype is identical. When the genotype is heterozygous, the alleles are different.
Definition: Phenotype is defined as an organism's expressed physical traits. Phenotype is determined by an individual's genotype and expressed genes, random genetic variation, and environmental influences. Examples: Examples of an organism's phenotype include traits such as color, height, size, shape, and behavior. 
Phenotype. Definition. noun, plural: phenotypes. (1) The physical appearance or biochemical characteristic of an organism as a result of the interaction of its genotype and the environment. (2) The expression of a particular trait, for example, skin color, height, behavior, etc. , according to the individual’s genetic makeup and environment. Supplement. Phenotypes result from the expression of the genes of an organisms as well as the influence of environmental factors and random variation. The interaction between these factors have often been represented by the following relationship: genotype + environment + random variation → phenotype