Rocky Mountain Oysters begin their journey to our dinner table “en sac”, where they ripen and mature, marinating in their own special salty juices. Specially trained migrant workers gently reach into the growing environment and cup the sack, gently weighing the oysters with their soft silky hands. But why eat Rocky Mountain oysters one might ask. Just like we eat veal so the rest of the children of the world can get fresh milk to grow healthy and strong, we eat bull and calf testicles so beef cattle can grow big and strong and meaty.
Rocky Mountain oysters is a term for a dish made of bull, pig or sheep testicles. The organs are often deep-fried after being peeled, coated in flour, pepper and salt, and sometimes pounded flat. This delicacy is most often served as an appetizer with a cocktail sauce dip. 1 Rocky Mountain Oysters, Songwriter Dwight Lakey's (ASCAP) song about Rocky Mountain oysters, © 2007 Brown Barn Publishing & Dwight Lakey, Danville, VT, & Julesburg, CO; All Rights Reserved.
Rocky Mountain Oysters. Also called 'calf fries', 'prairie oysters', etc., this novelty cowboy fare is popular in parts of the American West and Western Canada where cattle ranching is prevalent. 1 With a very sharp knife, split the tough skin-like muscle that surrounds each oyster.. 2  Remove the skin. 3  In a large bowl or pot, dissolve 1/2 cup sugar and 3/4 cup kosher salt in 8 cups cold of water (water should cover the oysters); add the oysters; cover and let set for 1 hour. 4  Drain and rinse under cool water.
Rocky Mountain oysters are the testicles of bulls or sheep that are typically deep-friend and served as an appetizer. Rocky Mountain oysters are a delicacy that are made from bull testicles. View slideshow of images above. Steakhouses or other restaurants that have Western themes often serve Rocky Mountain oysters as a novelty item. Some recipes for calf fries or prairie oysters involve poaching or sauteing, sautéing But Rocky mountain oysters are almost always served as-deep fried. slices
Rocky Mountain Oysters are a specialty dish invented by the jolly ranchers of the world who believe it is not only possible but delicious to eat the entire beef steer, from snout to anus. But why eat Rocky Mountain oysters one might ask. Just like we eat veal so the rest of the children of the world can get fresh milk to grow healthy and strong, we eat bull and calf testicles so beef cattle can grow big and strong and meaty.
Although they're most commonly referred to as oysters due to their slimy appearance when raw, some other names are used to describe the little fellas. Examples include: cowboy caviar, prairie oysters, swinging beef, Montana tendergroin, dusted nuts, bollocks, or bull/pig/lamb fry. Rocky Mountain oysters, however, is the euphemism to end all euphemisms. 
Known by a profusion of catchy euphemisms — Rocky Mountain oysters, prairie oysters, calf fries, huevos del toros (which is literally “bulls’ eggs” in Spanish), cowboy caviar, Montana tendergroins, and swinging beef, to name a few — bull testicles have been consumed by ranchers for centuries. In the end, Rocky Mountain oysters are mostly like scallops in consistency, without the briny taste, and not any more off-putting than, say, a corndog. With all the offal-eating going on, perhaps it’s time for the Rocky Mountain Oyster to step out of the realm of oddity.
There is one food that Colorado is famous for – and no, it’s not the Denver omelet. Foodies from all over the world come to Colorado in search of the legendary Rocky Mountain Oysters. For those that aren’t as familiar with this delicacy, Rocky Mountain Oysters are hardly seafood. They are bull or bison testicles that are specially prepared, dipped in batter and deep fried to perfection. Some people love them. Seems like Rocky Mountain Oysters are a common side dish to hot wings in Colorado. Golden Flame Hot Wings is another wing specialty restaurant that also serves up the legendary delights. You can get an appetizer of six to enjoy with your wings or you can make a meal of it with fries and a drink.
Also known as prairie oysters or calf fries, Rocky Mountain oysters usually are sliced, breaded, deep-fried and served with dipping sauce. Usually considered an appetizer rather than a main course, this dish is said to be an acquired taste. Steakhouses or other restaurants that have Western themes often serve Rocky Mountain oysters as a novelty item. Some recipes for calf fries or prairie oysters involve poaching or sauteing, sautéing But Rocky mountain oysters are almost always served as-deep fried. slices
Rocky Mountain oysters are sometimes confused with lamb fries or animelles (lamb testicles), which are served in a manner similar to Rocky Mountain oysters. A few other deceptive terms, such as cowboy caviar, Montana tendergroins, dusted nuts, bull fries or swinging beef may be used. 1 Rocky Mountain Oysters, Songwriter Dwight Lakey's (ASCAP) song about Rocky Mountain oysters, © 2007 Brown Barn Publishing & Dwight Lakey, Danville, VT, & Julesburg, CO; All Rights Reserved.