The Tenerife climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine.
The warm season lasts from July 9 to October 5 with an average daily high temperature above 81A°81â. F the hottest day of the year Is august, 29 with an average high OF°83a 83â f and LOW°Of. 71a 71â f the cold Season lasts from December 13 to march 11 with an average daily HIGH°Temperature. below 73a 73â f Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Tenerife has a cold desert climate. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (73%), forests (16%), croplands (6%), and shrublands (4%).
Tenerife: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Tenerife with an average temperature of 24°C (75°F) and the coldest is January at 17°C (62°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 9 in August. The wettest month is December with an average of 52mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in September when the average sea temperature is 24°C (75°F).
Tenerife experiences a spring like temperature throughout the year, with the average temperature between 20 and 22ºC. There are also major contrasts at low altitude, where the climate ranges from dry on the south eastern side like in Santa Cruz de Tenerife to Mediterranean on the north western side in Buenaventura del Norte and La Orotava.
Weather in Tenerife. Tenerife has an average winter temperature of 20-22° and average summer temperatures of 26-28°. Perfect temperatures really-never too cold and never too hot. Indeed Tenerife is known as the «Island of Eternal Spring ». The weather in the south of Tenerife is generally hotter and drier than the weather in the north of Tenerife. The presence of the dormant volcano, Mount Teide in the middle of Tenerife splits the island into two different climates.
Tenerife is one of Spain's Canary Islands that sit far south of the mainland, close to the west coast of Northern Africa. The islands are known as “The Islands of Eternal Spring” for their famously pleasant weather all year round. Summer, from June till September, is very similar to that in the south but a few degrees cooler. It sees average high temperatures in the low 20s, peaking in July and August at 24°C. Sunshine levels are also at their highest in July with ten hours per day.
The daily average low (blue) and high (red) temperature with percentile bands (inner band from 25th to 75th percentile, outer band from 10th to 90th percentile). The warm season lasts from July 9 to October 5 with an average daily high temperature above 81A°81â. f Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Tenerife has a cold desert climate. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (73%), forests (16%), croplands (6%), and shrublands (4%).
The Canary Islands lie at around 28° North and enjoy a pleasant sub-tropical climate with average daily maximums of over 20°C throughout the year. 
This report describes the typical weather at the Tenerife South Airport (Reina Sofia) (Sofía, Tenerife) spain weather station over the course of an average. Year it is based on the historical records from 1984 to. 2012 earlier records are either unavailable or. unreliable Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Tenerife has a cold desert climate. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (73%), forests (16%), croplands (6%), and shrublands (4%).
Weather. In general, the weather in the Island is very soft, warm and moderated during all seasons of the year. There are not periods of intense cold or very high temperatures. The average temperature is around 18°C/62°F in winter and it reaches around 25°C/81°F degrees in summer. The following data shows the different average temperatures by month, as well as the precipitation in mm followed by sun hours.