The resulting mRNA is a single-stranded copy of the gene, which next must be translated into a protein molecule. During translation, which is the second major step in gene expression, the mRNA is read according to the genetic code, which relates the DNA sequence to the amino acid sequence in proteins (Figure 2). In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene. In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).
In the mRNA, Uracil is substituted for thymine as the base complementary to adenine. Since the other strand of the DNA has bases complementary to the template strand, the mRNA has the same sequence of bases at the upper strand of DNA shown above (with U substituted for T) , which is called the coding strand. The DNA contains the master plan for the creation of the proteins and other molecules and systems of the cell, but the carrying out of the plan involves transfer of the relevant information to RNA in a process called transcription. The RNA to which the information is transcribed is messenger RNA (mRNA). The process associated with RNA polymerase is to unwind the DNA and build a strand of mRNA by placing on the growing mRNA molecule the base complementary to that on the template strand of the DNA
Create the antiparallel DNA or RNA strand. For example, the sequence ATGC is converted to GCAT. Antiparallel combines the two functions Complement and Inverse. Complement. Create the complement DNA or RNA strand. For example, the sequence ATGC is converted to TACG. Inverse. Create the inverse DNA or RNA strand. For example, the sequence ATGC is converted to CGTA.
In Translation, you don't convert mRNA into tRNA. The mRNA goes through the Ribosomes, and the tRNA matches the mRNA codons to anti-codons, which makes a peptide chain or proteins. If you want to convert mRNA by hand, you would use a certain method. This is our DNA strand: TAC-ACC-TGA-GGC-ATA-CCA-ATT
This video shows how to decode the DNA code. We convert the DNA message into the sequence of mRNA bases, then convert to tRNA bases and finally we show the amino acids. 1  People & Blogs. 
Description. SeqDNA = rna2dna(SeqRNA) converts an RNA sequence to a DNA sequence by converting any uracil nucleotides (U) in the RNA sequence to thymine nucleotides (T). The DNA sequence is returned in the same format as the RNA sequence. For example, if SeqRNA is a vector of integers, then so is SeqDNA. 
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription. In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).