The $250 limit applies to the amount of each contribution. For example, if you donate $100 every week to your temple using a chack, you can prove the deduction with canceled checks. However, if you make just one $300 cash donation, you can't claim the donation as a deduction without a receipt. For example, if you leave a donation of clothing valued at $100 at a charity's drop box, you can claim a deduction eve
As a general rule, you need to get a receipt to claim a deduction for your donated goods. However, no receipt is required for donations valued at less than $250 when it is impractical to get one. For example, if you leave a donation of clothing valued at $100 at a charity's drop box, you can claim a deduction even without a receipt.
Cash Gift Receipts. Contributions of money can be made in cash, by check or credit card or through some automatic deduction. For amounts up to $250, you can keep a receipt, cancelled check or statement. Donations of more than $250 require a written acknowledgement from the charity. In most cases, you should submit this acknowledgement with your tax return. If your total of all non-cash charitable donations is over $500, you must file a Form 8283 signed by the charity and an appraiser. In all cases, any services or items provided for the gift have to be deducted from the total.
Even though you don't have to submit donation receipts with your tax return, the IRS requires you to have the receipts before you can take a charitable deduction. The type of documentation you’ll need depends on whether you donate cash or property, as well as the amount or value of the gift. For each cash donation of $250 or more, the IRS also requires you to obtain a written acknowledgment from the recipient organization. However, if you were to donate $50 to your church every Sunday, a written acknowledgment isn’t required because no single donation was for $250 or more.
Cash Donations. Donating much more than the 3 percent norm may be enough to raise interest from the IRS. If you make cash donations, it's easier to prove that you've donated as much as you claim. If you actually give cash, you can get cash receipts from the charity to document your gift. If you write a check, put the payment on a debit or credit card, or make an electronic payment, your bank or card provider will have records of your payment.
1 Single or Multiple Cash Donations Under $250: you can provide a receipt from the organization, bank record, credit card statement, or cancelled check that shows the name of the organization, the date of the donation, and the amount. The standard deduction is currently $5,950 for individuals and $11,900 for married couples filing jointly for the 2014 tax year. To deduct a charitable contribution, you must file Form 1040 and itemize deductions on Schedule A. So, if you know 100% you won’t be itemizing, don’t worry about donation receipts.
Bushfire and flood donations. If you made one or more donations of $2 or more to bucket collections conducted by an approved organisation for bushfire and flood victims, you can claim a tax deduction equal to your contribution without a receipt provided the contribution does not exceed $10. 
It goes on the Schedule A. The total of everything on the Schedule A then goes on the 1040. She does not qualify to deduct any of her donations. Deductions without receipts are allowed only if you kept track as to the amount of the donation, which charity received it, etc. My mum told me that when you donate to charities and such, you can write it off on your taxes. Where does this go on the 1040? She said you can write up to 250$ off. So she said she'd write 249$ off, since she knows she's donated a lot, but doesn't have any receipts.
For donations up to $500, you need a receipt listing the organization, date of the donation and a description of the property and its value. For donations over $500 but less than $5,000 you also need a written acknowledgement and an appraisal if the gift is clothing or furniture. If your total of all non-cash charitable donations is over $500, you must file a Form 8283 signed by the charity and an appraiser. In all cases, any services or items provided for the gift have to be deducted from the total.
However, your deduction is limited to the excess of what you gave over the value of what you received. For example, if you gave $100 to a charity dinner and the dinner was worth $30, you can deduct $70. If you make a contribution of more than $75 and receive goods or services, the charity must give you a written statement that tells you the value of those goods or services. 