It is rare before the age of 15, but can start at any time after this, most often between the ages of 15 and 35. Psychotic symptoms (such as hallucinations and delusions) usually emerge in men in their late teens and early 20s and in women in their mid-20s to early 30s. They seldom occur after age 45 and only rarely before puberty, although cases of schizophrenia in children as young as 5 have been reported. . In young people who go on to develop the disease, this is called the prodromal period. The prodrome is a period of decreased functioning prior to the first psychosis.
1 The average age of onset is 18 in men and 25 in women. 2  Schizophrenia onset is quite rare for people under 10 years of age, or over 40 years of age. 3  The diagram below demonstrates the general age of onset trends for schizophrenia in men and women, from a representative study on the topic. Suicide is the number one cause of premature death among people with schizophrenia, with an estimated 10 percent to 13 percent killing themselves and approximately 40% attempting suicide at least once (and as much as 60% of males attempting suicide).
Most people with schizophrenia will develop symptoms of the illness when they are in their teenage years or as a young adult. The symptoms of schizophrenia may appear at different times for males and females. Males usually exhibit signs of schizophrenia at a younger age than females. Many females are not diagnosed with schizophrenia until their early 20s or later. The positive symptoms of schizophrenia, including psychotic hallucinations and delusions, usually show up when a person is between ages 16 and 30. Some children and young teenagers may show signs of schizophrenia even before that time.
Schizophrenia affects men and women equally. It occurs at similar rates in all ethnic groups around the world. Symptoms such as hallucinations and delusions usually start between ages 16 and 30. Men tend to experience symptoms a little earlier than women. Most of the time, people do not get schizophrenia after age 45. Schizophrenia rarely occurs in children, but awareness of childhood-onset schizophrenia is increasing. 
Best Answer: Late-teens/early-20's if it is the normal onset/variety of the disorder. There are many variations and disorders sharing similar symptoms, and there are causes outside of genetics which can cause schizophrenia and related problems at any age. They seldom occur after age 45 and only rarely before puberty, although cases of schizophrenia in children as young as 5 have been reported. . In young people who go on to develop the disease, this is called the prodromal period. The prodrome is a period of decreased functioning prior to the first psychosis.
1 Men tend to get develop schizophrenia slightly earlier than women; whereas most males become ill between 16 and 25 years old, most females develop symptoms several years later, and the incidence in women is noticably higher in women after age 30. 2  The average age of onset is 18 in men and 25 in women. Suicide is the number one cause of premature death among people with schizophrenia, with an estimated 10 percent to 13 percent killing themselves and approximately 40% attempting suicide at least once (and as much as 60% of males attempting suicide).
A. You are correct. Schizophrenia does tend to occur later in women than in males. The average age range for a female to develop schizophrenia is roughly ages 25-29 (18-21 in males). The reasons for the age difference between genders are not well understood. 
The symptoms of schizophrenia typically first appear in a person’s late teens or early twenties, although they can begin at any age. Generally speaking, males exhibit the first signs of schizophrenia earlier then females. Unlike some disorders, schizophrenia does not favor one gender over another. 
Blame Biology, Not Personality. It's crucial to recognize that schizophrenia is a real illness, not a character flaw, says Philip D. Harvey, PhD, a professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the University of Miami. People with schizophrenia can have a hard time telling what’s real and what’s not. They may see things that aren’t there or hold firm beliefs that fly in the face of fact. Understanding schizophrenia ’s nature can help patients and their loved ones regain a sense of control. Slideshow: Schizophrenia Overview.