Dear Can't find, Your question is a far cry from stupid! The clitoris may be quite elusive to men and women who haven't fully explored their partner's or their own body. This little joy button deserves to be found, and below are some insights to improve your seeking skills. Gently rub or pull the clitoris itself, or rub the hood or a larger area around the clitoris. Use one finger, then try several. Try different kinds of pressure and timing. While the female genitalia may have many wonders, it need not be an enigma.
In humans, the visible button-like portion is near the front junction of the labia minora (inner lips), above the opening of the urethra. Unlike the penis, the male homologue (equivalent) to the clitoris, it usually does not contain the distal portion (or opening) of the urethra and is therefore not used for urination. With regard to nerve endings, the human clitoris's estimated 8,000 or more (for its glans or clitoral body as a whole) is commonly cited as being twice as many as the nerve endings found in the human penis (for its glans or body as a whole), and as more than any other part of the human body.
The clitoris is a complex structure, and its size and sensitivity can vary. The glans (head) of the human clitoris is roughly the size and shape of a pea, and is estimated to have more than 8,000 sensory nerve endings. With regard to nerve endings, the human clitoris's estimated 8,000 or more (for its glans or clitoral body as a whole) is commonly cited as being twice as many as the nerve endings found in the human penis (for its glans or body as a whole), and as more than any other part of the human body.
The clitoris is a small projection of erectile tissue in the vulva of the female reproductive system. It contains thousands of nerve endings that make it an extremely sensitive organ. Touch stimulation of the nerve endings in the clitoris produces sensations of sexual pleasure. The prepuce, or hood, of the clitoris is a small fold of skin that covers and protects the clitoris anteriorly; the labia majora and labia minora surround and protect it in all other directions. The clitoris can be divided into three major regions: the glans, body, and crura.
Full Definition of CLITORIS. : a small erectile female organ located within the anterior junction of the labia minora that develops from the same embryonic mass of tissue as the penis and is responsive to sexual stimulation. — cli·to·ral \ˈkli-tə-rəl\ also cli·tor·ic \kli-ˈtȯr-ik, -ˈtaer-\ ˈtär. adjective
The clitoris is the only organ in the female body devoted solely to physical pleasure and is the physiological equivalent of the head of a man's penis — packed with nerve endings and sensitive to touch. 
Some other carnivorous animals, or mammals in particular, such as lemurs and spider monkeys, also have a well-developed clitoris. The clitoris is the human female's most sensitive erogenous zone and generally the primary anatomical source of human female sexual pleasure. With regard to nerve endings, the human clitoris's estimated 8,000 or more (for its glans or clitoral body as a whole) is commonly cited as being twice as many as the nerve endings found in the human penis (for its glans or body as a whole), and as more than any other part of the human body.
clitoris. the small, elongated, erectile body in the female; it occupies the clitoral fossa in the ventral commissure of the vulva where it is attached to the ischial arch by two crura. It is homologous with the penis in the male. enlarged clitoris. as seen in masculinized patients. 