This leads to high levels of TSH and low levels of free T4. If your free T4 levels are too low—the normal range for T4 is 5 to 13.5 micrograms per deciliter—it's a possible indicator that you have hypothyroidism, even if your previous TSH tests came back normal. Again, the normal ranges vary from lab to lab. Anti-thyroid Microsomal Antibodies Testing.
Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. 
If you go by TSH normal ranges your score is normal, however TSH alone does not give a full picture of thyroid health. Insist on testing for Free T4, Free T3, Reverse T3, thyroid antibodies, ferritin and D3 as the first step. One test is just not enough to get a full picture. As you know from this article a normal TSH range depending on the lab is around 0.5 to 5.0 which is why your TSH of 4.46 was determined normal, however the very fact that your first TSH test showed up 6.49 should be reason to investigate further.
T3 is normally present in very small amounts, but has a significant impact. The range for normal values is 100 to 200 nanograms per deciliter, according to Medline Plus. Greater-than-normal values may be due to hyperthyroidism, thyroid cancer or high levels of a protein that carries T3 in the blood. Lower-than-normal values may indicate hypothyroidism, starvation or a long illness. Thyroxine is also known as T4 because it contains four iodine atoms, according to thyroid.com. Most T4 is transported in the bloodstream by proteins, and the liver converts T4 into T3. A typical normal range, says Medline Plus, is 4.5 to 11.2 micrograms per deciliter.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone (also known as thyrotropin, TSH, or hTSH for human TSH) is a pituitary hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland to produce thyroxine (T 4), and then triiodothyronine (T 3) which stimulates the metabolism of almost every tissue in the body. 
Speaking roughly, normal levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) are in the range of 0.4 to 4.0 mIU/L. However, each laboratory and test manufacturer identifies its own normal TSH range. This is based on the test, the equipment being used, and the patients being tested. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists has proposed a range of 0.3 to 3.0 for normal TSH levels. Using these cutoff values would lead to more people being diagnosed with an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism).
Normal ranges of a T3 level needs to be 3-8. The normal levels for the T4 need to be 4-11. When levels are beyond 8 to 11, this is considered an overactive thyroid, also known as hyperthyroidism. Hyperthyroidism simply means the body is creating too much of these hormones. 
TSH Range. The function of thyroid stimulating hormone (or TSH) is to regulate the normal levels of thyroid hormones in the body. It is a peptide hormone secreted by the thyrotrope cells of anterior pituitary gland. The TSH activates the thyroid gland to produce both Triiodothyronine(T3) and thyroxine (T4) hormones. 
Goiter associated with an overactive thyroid usually involves a high level of thyroid hormone in the blood and a lower than normal TSH level. An antibody test. ... For goiters associated with hyperthyroidism, you may need medications to normalize hormone levels. The goal of treatment is to get a normal level of thyroid hormone in your body. This is checked using a routine thyroid function blood test called a TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone). A normal range is around 0.4-4.5 mIU/L.
Normally the reference range for TSH is around 0.5 to 5.0 but thyroid doctors have been debating these numbers for years. 0.03 is lower than “normal” however TSH does not give a full picture. You should speak with your doctor about testing your Free T4, Free T3, Reverse T3, and thyroid antibodies. As you know from this article a normal TSH range depending on the lab is around 0.5 to 5.0 which is why your TSH of 4.46 was determined normal, however the very fact that your first TSH test showed up 6.49 should be reason to investigate further.