In statistics, an ogive is a free-hand graph showing the curve of a cumulative distribution function. The points plotted are the upper class limit and the corresponding cumulative frequency. (which, for the normal distribution, resembles one side of an Arabesque or ogival arch). The traditional or secant ogive is a surface of revolution of the same curve that forms a Gothic arch; that is, a circular arc, of greater radius than the diameter of the cylindrical section (shank), is drawn from the edge of the shank until it intercepts the axis.
The frequency distribution graphs are frequency graphs and are used to define the characteristic which is more trust worthy than the tabulated form or other source. This frequency distribution graph helps us in finding the comparison between the continuous and discrete data. There are four types of frequency distributive graphs namely histogram, frequency polygon, frequency curves and ogive graph. Basically, aâ ogivea ogiveâ is a term that is used to describe the curves and. curved shapes
Definition of OGIVE. 1. a: a diagonal arch or rib across a Gothic vault b: a pointed arch. 2. : a graph of a cumulative distribution function or a cumulative frequency distribution. 3. : ogee 1. ADVERTISEMENT. 
An Ogive is a round shaped graph, in which the ends of the shape can be two dimensional or three dimensional. The cumulative frequency curve is the other name of ogive curve. The shape of ogive is pointed and curved and the ogives are used in making the bullets or other projectiles. Ogive is used in projectiles. It is also used to find the median of frequency distribution. Some algorithms are there which help us to understand ogives definition as follows: Algorithm 1: Step 1: First, draw two types of frequency curves on the graph paper. There are four types of frequency distributive graphs namely histogram, frequency polygon, frequency curves and ogive graph. Basically, aâ ogivea ogiveâ is a term that is used to describe the curves and. curved shapes
An ogive is a curve that represents cumulative frequencies of the given variables. The graph of the cumulative frequency distribution is better known as the cumulative frequency curve or Ogive. The word Ogive is basically a term used in the architecture to describe curves or curved shapes. Let us go ahead and understand about the cumulative frequency curve in this page. The cumulative frequency curve is also known as Ogive. Just to recall that the cumulative frequency of a variable is the summation of all the frequencies of variables previous to it.
ogive. n. 1. (Architecture) a diagonal rib or groin of a Gothic vault. 2. (Architecture) another name for lancet arch. 3. (Statistics) statistics a graph the ordinates of which represent cumulative frequencies of the values indicated by the corresponding abscissas. Noun. 1. ogive-front consisting of the conical head of a missile or rocket that protects the payload from heat during its passage through the atmosphere. nose cone. front-the side that is seen or that goes first. heat shield-a protective covering that protects a spacecraft from overheating on reentry.
Cumulative Frequency Graph (Ogive). A cumulative frequency graph, also known as an Ogive, is a curve showing the cumulative frequency for a given set of data. The cumulative frequency is plotted on the y-axis against the data which is on the x-axis for un-grouped data. 
Ogive. An Ogive (pronounced O-Jive) is a graph that represents the cumulative frequencies for the classes in a frequency distribution and it is a continuous frequency curve. Ogive has the shape of an elongated 'S' and is sometimes called a double curve with one portion being concave and the other being convex. In the graph, consider the lower limit in the x-axis direction and cumulative frequencies along y-axis direction. Plot the points (x, y), where 'x' is the lower limit of a class and 'y' is the corresponding cumulative frequency. Join the points by a smooth curve.
An Ogive Chart is a curve of the cumulative frequency distribution or cumulative relative frequency distribution.To draw such a curve, first of all the simple frequency must be expressed as percentage of the total frequency. Let us go ahead and understand about the cumulative frequency curve in this page. The cumulative frequency curve is also known as Ogive. Just to recall that the cumulative frequency of a variable is the summation of all the frequencies of variables previous to it.
An ogive is a type of graph that is used to represent the  cumulative frequencies for the classes in a frequency distribution.  This type of graph can also be known as a cum … ulative frequency  graph. 