Among 1,000s of puppy names, some are ideally suited as male German Shepherd names. This courageous, intelligent, capable breed needs a name befitting its stature. Male Shepherds need a masculine name that describes their personality and, perhaps, their purpose in your own life or family. Haan is a beautiful German city. A good one syllable dog name and one of my favorite male German Shepherd names. Hansel. Character in the German fairy tale Hansel and Gretel. Helmar. Germanic for Famous Protector. Fighting Fury in Swedish. Hertz. German for Kind Hearted. A good one syllable dog name.
German Names For Dogs-Suggestions Then Lists-. Arlo: A name shared with the famous musician son of Woody Guthrie, this title is of Germanic origin and means “hill” or “high place of earth”. Avis: Today, commonly this term brings to mind a specific company which rents cars. 
Look no further for a great list of German dog names! If you are trying to find the perfect name for your Doberman Pinscher, Schnauzer or another one of the many dog breeds that originate in Germany, we hope that our list of German names will help you out. Our list is made up of real German names that parents have been naming their children for centuries, but at the bottom of the page, see a short collection of a few German words we have included that also might make a fun name for your dog.
If you need a boy dog name for your Shepherd, check the male German Shepherd names list. Otherwise, take a look at the list of names and meanings below. One more thing. . . my neighbor raises German Shepherds and my favorite of her female German Shepherd names (so far) is Deja. That just seems like a cool dog name. Browse our list of more than 80 female German Shepherd names and their meanings. Take your time and have fun. If you don’t find a name you like, expand your search to our list of German dog names or to our entire list of more than 4,000 puppy names.
[ˈʃɛːfɐˌhʊnt]) is a breed of large-sized working dog that originated in Germany. The breed's officially recognized name is German Shepherd Dog in the English language, sometimes abbreviated as  GSD , and was also formerly known as the Alsatian and Alsatian Wolf Dog in Britain. The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed of dog, with their origin dating to 1899. The German Shepherd is the second-most popular breed of dog in the United States and fourth-most popular in the United Kingdom.
Engel: Meaning angel, this sweet name is perfect for a passive and kind natured dog, of either male or female persuasion. Keep in mind that many German names are decidedly male or female, so make sure you know the name's gender before assigning it to your pet. As a bonus, your dog will stand out from the crowd, as unusual German names are not common! Be sure that you know what the definition of the name means, or if it has a negative connotation before committing to it. Some names can be simply fun words, while others might be traditional monikers.
Fraulein: Meaning female, specifically a young woman, this name is perfect for a female puppy. Not only is it gender specific, but it is commonly understood by other people and easily pronounced. Mitzi: This is a common German dog name in Germany, as it is a cute derivative of the name Mary or Marie. It is funny and easy to say! Wolfgang: Although many people associate this name with the famous composer, it is actually quite common in modern Germany as both a dog and human name. As a bonus, your dog will stand out from the crowd, as unusual German names are not common! Be sure that you know what the definition of the name means, or if it has a negative connotation before committing to it. Some names can be simply fun words, while others might be traditional monikers.
But you probably would prefer a German name for your dog or cat. In our list you can choose a name that suits your tastes and your pet. You may wish to use the name of a famous literary or other German: Kafka, Goethe, Freud (or Siggi / Sigmund) and Nietzsche are some possibilities. 