Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The two main rock types in which diamond is formed are harzburgite and eclogite, both quite rare igneous rock types. Harzburgite is composed of olivine, bronzite (an orthopyroxene), and some pyrope (chrome-and magnesium-rich varieties). Harzburgitic diamonds contain inclusions of olivine, broinzite, and pyrope. Harzburgitic diamonds are more than 3 billion years old. Eclogite is a high pressure metamorphic rock composed of garnet (almandine-pyrope variety) and omphacite (a sodium-rich clinopyroxene). Source(s): http://www.gamineral.org/diamond.htm.
Best Answer: The two main rock types in which diamond is formed are harzburgite and eclogite, both quite rare igneous rock types. Harzburgitic diamonds contain inclusions of olivine, broinzite, and pyrope. Harzburgitic diamonds are more than 3 billion years old. Eclogite is a high pressure metamorphic rock composed of garnet (almandine-pyrope variety) and omphacite (a sodium-rich clinopyroxene). Source(s): http://www.gamineral.org/diamond.htm.
Kimberlite is a gas-rich, potassic ultramafic igneous rock that contains the minerals olivine, phlogopite, diopside, serpentine, calcite, and minor amounts of apatite, magnetite, chromite, garnet, diamond, and other upper mantle minerals. 
diamond is a mineral, not a type of rock it can be found in kimberlite deposits, which are igneous it can also be found in placer deposits, which are sedimentary. it could also be in metamorphic rocks. Report Abuse. diamond is a mineral, not a type of rock it can be found in kimberlite deposits, which are igneous it can also be found in placer deposits, which are sedimentary. it could also be in metamorphic rocks. ion · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down
Graphite can be found in all types of rock (igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary). Although, it originates from igneous rocks, and is generally most economic in metamorphic r … ocks. 
Kimberlite is an igneous rock best known for sometimes containing diamonds. It is named after the town of Kimberley in South Africa, where the discovery of an 83.5-carat (16.70 g) diamond called the Star of South Africa in 1869 spawned a diamond rush, eventually creating the Big Hole. 
Diamonds typically occur in a rock called Kimberlite and in related cousins (Lamproite). Although diamond crystals are found in Kimberlite and related rocks, the origin of diamond is more closely related to the fragments of peridotite and eclogite which are derived from the upper mantle, below cratonic (shield) areas. 
Kimberlite is a bluish rock that diamond miners look for when seeking out new diamond deposits. The surface area of diamond-bearing kimberlite pipes ranges from 2 to 146 hectares (5 to 361 acres). Diamonds may also be found in river beds, which are called alluvial diamond sites. 
Where diamonds are found in the United States-Wyoming Diamond Kimberlite pipes have been found in Wyoming, near the Colorado-Wyoming state line area referred to as the Aultman, Ferris and Schaffer kimberlites. It is called the Crater of Diamonds State Park of Arkansas. The Crater of Diamonds State Park is the only publicly owned diamond site in the world where visitors may search for diamonds and keep what they find! The land has yielded over 70,000 diamonds including the Kahn Canary Diamond and the Uncle Sam Diamond.