The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. It doesn’t need to be soggy or swimming, but moist. Once the new grass is visible, the roots are also growing down into the soil.
Considerations. If the grass seed doesn't germinate as fast as expected, it may be because it is lacking the proper water dosage. Soaking the seeds will cause them to become water-logged and perhaps rot. They also can float away, causing gaps in a new lawn. Too little water can cause them to dry and die
When you plant grass seeds, it is important to match the grass species to your local climate and plant the seeds at the correct time and rate. To get a rough idea how long for your lawn to get established, add 30 to 45 days to the germination time. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the fall.
Tall fescue (Lolium arundinaceum) seeds germinate in seven to 12 days. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the fall.
Replanting New Grass Seed. Grass is a fast growing plant, but the exact rate at which it grows depends upon the type of grass used and the growing conditions. Germination. Grass seeds usually germinate between seven and ten days after they have been sown, although it can take between three and thirty days. Growth. A fast growing variety of grass sown under good growing conditions will produce a green covering in about a week, although it will not yet be properly established. Most varieties should produce visible results within about two weeks. Grass takes several weeks or months to become fully established. Seeds sown in mid spring should be well established before the summer, while seeds sown at the beginning of fall should be growing well by the first frosts.
If stored in a cool, dry place, grass seed can last for 2-3 years. However, the germination rate (the number of seeds that will grow) will decrease over time, so you may not get the same results you would if you were using fresh seed. For best results, use fresh product and try to plant it within a year. The length of time varies by grass type. The product package should tell you how long it will take for your new grass to begin growing. For the general guidelines used by Scotts experts, click here.
How long does it take for seed to grow. Different seed mixtures establish at different speeds. As a general rule, hardwearing mixtures usually contain ryegrass and red fescue, two species that establish quite quickly-they can germinate in as little as 3-4 days, but 7-10 days is more average.
Concerning how long does grass seed take to grow, if the conditions are good and the variety of grass used is of the type that grows fast, within a week’s time the result may be a lush green patch in the lawn. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days. The climate condition during which the seed is sown is also very essential for the seeds to germinate faster and to grow. The seed of the grass germinates faster with the availability of proper light, water and nutrition of soil. Excess of heat, over irrigation and over-use of pesticides and insecticides may kill the germination. A temperate and warm condition is most favorable for no matter how long does grass seed take to grow.
Buffalograss (Stenotaphrum secundatum) seeds take 14 to 30 days to germinate. Plant 1 pound of Bermudagrass seeds per 1,000 square feet in late spring or early summer. For the same area, plant 1 1/2 to 2 pounds of buffalo grass in spring or fall. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the fall.