If you are not sure of the fee, you can check the Anytime Fitness Membership Agreement, where you will also find information on cancellation fees. The yearly membership also varies depending on the location, although the rate is usually in the $450 to $500 range. Places where the cost to do business is higher will also be higher. Most Anytime Fitness Clubs offer a 7 day trial at no charge. Use it to make sure that club is a good fit for your needs. To squabble over $4 o $5 a month when that club will best help you reach your goals is silly.
1 24 Hour Fitness offers 90-day memberships for $50 per month at its nearly 400 gyms on the West Coast. 2  The rates drop to between $37 and $40 a month for a 12-month plan, depending on the location. 1 A 30-day membership, which allows access to the gym only three days a week, is $19. 2  Gyms often discount fees for students, seniors and families. 3  At many of its locations, Snap Fitness offers family plans for an average of $50 a month, but children must live at home and be 18 or younger.
1 One of the features of Anytime Fitness over their major competitors is the capability to legitimately utilize membership at any international locations. 2  There are two compulsory additional expenses: a $59 charge for a member access key and $49.95 for the joining fees. 1 Typically, to become a member of Anytime Fitness, you will have to pay around $35 to $60 a month. 2  The longer you commit, the lower the prices are going to be. 3  One member on AnytimeHealth.com stated they received a quote for $35 a month if you committed for one year.
1 Monthly fees average $35 to $40 for a single membership, but can be as low as $20 depending on age, location and whether customers are willing to sign an extended contract. 2  Many health clubs also charge an average enrollment fee of $40, but some can charge more than $100. 1 A 30-day membership, which allows access to the gym only three days a week, is $19. 2  Gyms often discount fees for students, seniors and families. 3  At many of its locations, Snap Fitness offers family plans for an average of $50 a month, but children must live at home and be 18 or younger.
We fit your busy schedule and on-the-go lifestyle. With your membership, you can work out when it’s best for you—day or night! Our clubs are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. At Anytime Fitness you hold the key, literally. Access to our clubs is protected by our state-of-the-art security system and will only be granted with the proper key. Once inside, you have full use of cutting-edge strength training and cardio equipment.
Anytime Fitness Membership Fees and Benefits. Anytime Fitness prices will depend on the kind of membership you apply for and where, although the cost is usually $30 to $36 with a $50 activation fee. However, in other clubs the membership fee is $44 for a single monthly membership and $39 for a 12 month membership. Places where the cost to do business is higher will also be higher. Most Anytime Fitness Clubs offer a 7 day trial at no charge. Use it to make sure that club is a good fit for your needs. To squabble over $4 o $5 a month when that club will best help you reach your goals is silly.
How much is it? 1  Typically, to become a member of Anytime Fitness, you will have to pay around $35 to $60 a month. 2  One member on AnytimeHealth.com stated they received a quote for $35 a month if you committed for one year. 1 Typically, to become a member of Anytime Fitness, you will have to pay around $35 to $60 a month. 2  The longer you commit, the lower the prices are going to be. 3