Some women take early home pregnancy tests, only to find a faint line, which may put doubt on whether they are really pregnant or not. The rules say that any line that appears on a pregnancy test, even if it is just a faint line, is considered a positive result. Urine can evaporate from your pregnancy test and produce a faint line that may resemble a positive result. Evaporation lines, however, do not have color and look more like shadows. Test results read after recommended time. A manufacturer usually recommends the time when results may be read accurately.
For example, if you dip a pregnancy test that is sensitive to 20 miu/ml hcg in a sample of urine containing precisely 20 miu/ml hcg, the test manufacturer is expecting this test to yield a positive result, albeit very likely a faint one. By the letter of the law, ANY test line that's visible on a pregnancy test-even a faint one-indicates a positive result. (This is often confusing for those of us who take ovulation tests, as they work in a completely different manner.
Pregnancy tests are generally easy to read and can be up to 97 percent accurate. But the pale or faint lines that sometimes appear in the pregnancy test window can frustrate a woman who is counting on the test to provide an accurate result. Although a faint line on a pregnancy test can be considered a positive result, sometimes it can be caused by an evaporation line, which leads to a false result. In most cases, if you are pregnant, you will see a dark, unmistakable result
Pregnancy test sensitivity. Some home pregnancy tests are more sensitive than others. Some tests can detect pregnancy with HCG levels as low as 20 mIU and other tests require HCG levels of 100 mIU to detect pregnancy. A 20 mIU home pregnancy test may show a stronger line than a 100 mIU test. A faint positive test result may occur if you read the pregnancy test after the manufacturer's recommended time. Some pregnancy tests will continue to react to urine and produce a false positve result if read after recommended time period.
There are other possible causes for a faint line on a pregnancy tests. Some pregnancy tests may develop “evaporation lines,” where it looks like you have a result, but it’s really only condensation inside the test window. Most of the time, a home pregnancy test will show a positive by the time you should have started your period. If you get only a faint line on a pregnancy test, it can mean that the test is measuring only a small amount of hCG. The key here is to pay attention to the sensitivity of the test.
Positive pregnancy result – If you are using an at-home pregnancy test kit, sometimes it does yield a faint line as a positive result instead of a bold line, as long as you’re reading the results within the time allotted and you followed the instructions properly. But the pale or faint lines that sometimes appear in the pregnancy test window can frustrate a woman who is counting on the test to provide an accurate result. Although a faint line on a pregnancy test can be considered a positive result, sometimes it can be caused by an evaporation line, which leads to a false result.
Most home tests are designed to be positive when you're two to three days late for a period (or 15 to 16 days after ovulation). If there's a faint line, there's only a small amount of hCG in your urine, usually because it's early in the pregnancy. Some pregnancy tests are more sensitive to hCG than others. 
Notes: If a faint line appears on your pregnancy test, do the test again and try different brand with higher sensitivity levels. It is recommended that you consult a doctor when you are in doubt of your pregnancy test results, especially if you have missed your period. Urine can evaporate from your pregnancy test and produce a faint line that may resemble a positive result. Evaporation lines, however, do not have color and look more like shadows. Test results read after recommended time. A manufacturer usually recommends the time when results may be read accurately.
There could be a couple of different reasons why your pregnancy test is giving faint line or mixed results, rather than unmistakable ones: Failure to follow instructions properly – Unfortunately this is the number one reason why pregnancy tests yield false results, as well as faint lines instead of bold ones. But the pale or faint lines that sometimes appear in the pregnancy test window can frustrate a woman who is counting on the test to provide an accurate result. Although a faint line on a pregnancy test can be considered a positive result, sometimes it can be caused by an evaporation line, which leads to a false result.
Reading tests results after manufacturer's recommended time. A faint positive test result may occur if you read the pregnancy test after the manufacturer's recommended time. Some pregnancy tests will continue to react to urine and produce a false positve result if read after recommended time period. Chemical pregnancy