A SCAI answered. A perfusionist is the medical professional who operates the heart-lung bypass machine during bypass surgery. The machine takes over the responsibilities of the heart (to pump blood to the body) and lungs (to exchange carbon dioxide in the blood for oxygen) during the heart surgery. The perfusionist sets up the heart lung machine prior to the case, controls the flow of the blood through the machine during the surgery, monitors the patient during the time on the machine, and assists with lab tests during the surgery. The perfusionist also is in charge of the cell saver.
The perfusionist is a highly trained member of the cardiothoracic surgical team which consists of cardiac surgeons, anesthesiologists or Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists, physician assistants, surgical technologists, and nurses. The perfusionist is solely responsible for the management of the physiological and metabolic needs of the cardiac surgical patient so that the cardiac surgeon may operate on a still, unbeating heart.
A perfusionist, also known as a clinical perfusionist or a cardiovascular perfusionist, is a specialized healthcare professional who uses the heart-lung machine during cardiac surgery and other surgeries that require cardiopulmonary bypass to manage the patient's physiological status. The perfusionist is solely responsible for the management of the physiological and metabolic needs of the cardiac surgical patient so that the cardiac surgeon may operate on a still, unbeating heart.
A perfusionist is a specially trained individual who operates the heart lung machine during cardiac surgery. The heart lung machine is connected by tubing to the patient's heart during most heart surgeries, and it both circulates the blood and gives it oxygen. The perfusionist sets up the heart lung machine prior to the case, controls the flow of the blood through the machine during the surgery, monitors the patient during the time on the machine, and assists with lab tests during the surgery. The perfusionist also is in charge of the cell saver.
A perfusionist operates a heart-lung machine, which is an artificial blood pump, which propels oxygenated blood to the patient’s tissues while the surgeon operates on the heart. The perfusionist manages the physiological and metabolic demands of the patient while the cardiac surgeon operates on the heart. It is also the perfusionist’s responsibility to deliver the drug that stops the heart. 
When a patient needs open-heart surgery, the cardiac perfusionist is the member of the team who keeps the patient’s blood circulating and ensures there is enough oxygen in the blood to keep the patient alive. 
The perfusionist is responsible for the management of circulatory and respiratory functions of the patient which has a great effect on the patient systemic condition and allows the cardiac surgeon to focus on the actual surgical procedure and less on the immediate needs of the patient. The perfusionist is solely responsible for the management of the physiological and metabolic needs of the cardiac surgical patient so that the cardiac surgeon may operate on a still, unbeating heart.
Medical Definition of PERFUSIONIST. : a certified medical technician responsible for extracorporeal oxygenation of the blood during open-heart surgery and for the operation and maintenance of equipment (as a heart-lung machine) controlling it. ADVERTISEMENT. diffusionist, exclusionist
Wednesday, September 01, 2004 - Perfusion.com Inc. A perfusionist is a skilled, allied health professional, trained and educated specifically as a member of an open-heart, surgical team responsible for the selection, setup, and operation of a mechanical device commonly referred to as the heart-lung machine. 