The five aortic arches are the pumping organs of an earthworm. As with most creatures the feeding organ of an earthworm is the mouth. Located behind the mouth is the pharynx which acts as a suction pump; its muscular walls draw food back.
25. The aortic arches connect the ventral blood vessel, a tube lying under the digestive tract, with the dorsal blood vessel, a tube lying on top of the digestive tract. The dorsal blood vessel is the main pumping organ for the blood and it carries blood in an anterior direction. The ventral blood vessel carries blood to the rear of the worm. Lateral blood vessels branch off from the two main vessels and carry blood to and from the internal organs. In animals, examples of organs are the brain, liver, heart, kidney, stomach, etc. Each organ has one or more particular functions to perform and the tissues in a particular organ work with each other to perform these functions. For example the human heart has the function of pumping blood throughout the body.
Fertilizations is external, and cocoons are produced from which the young eventually emerge. Refer again to steps 5 and 11, where you located the Earthworms reproductive organs. Use a reference to identify the role of each organ in the reproductive process of the earthworm. On a separate paper, summarize your findings. : To reproduce, earthworms attach themselves to each other and then give off sperm to each other
This common species is Lumbricus terrestris also known as the night crawler or dew worm. Phylum-Class-Family-Genus-Species -. Annelida Oligochaeta Lumbricidae Lumbricus terrestris. Objectives: Describe the appearance of various organs found in the earthworm. Name the organs that make up various systems of the earthworm. Materials: Safety goggles, dissecting pins, gloves, forceps, lab apron, scissors, paper towel, scalpel, water, dissecting probe, preserved earthworm, hand lens, dissection tray.
The other end of the worm s body is the posterior end, where the anus is located. 2. Place earthworm in the dissecting tray & rinse off the excess preservative. Identify the dorsal side, which is the worm s rounded top, and the ventral side, which is its flattened bottom. 
An earthworm is a tube-shaped, segmented worm found in the phylum Annelida. They are commonly found living in soil, feeding on live and dead organic matter. Its digestive system runs through the length of its body. It conducts respiration through its skin. While, as the name earthworm suggests, the main habitat of earthworms is in soil, the situation is more complicated than that. The brandling worm Eisenia fetida lives in decaying plant matter and manure.
A: The pumping organs of the circulatory system are five aortic arches. Circulatory fluids travel from the arches through the ventral blood vessel to capillary beds in the body. The fluids then collect in the dorsal blood vessel and reenter the aortic arches. In the intestine, which extends over two-thirds of the body lenght, digestion and absorbsion take place. The gizzard is a muscular organ used to churn the food and then it moves onto the intestine where absorbtion of the food occurs. 8. Your dissection of the earthworm did not go beyond segment 32.
A: I located the earthworms reproductive organs from below the head to the mid-section of the worm. All the organs that I found play a different role. The clitellum is a swelling of the body found in sexually mature worms and is active in the formation of an egg capsule, or cocoon. In the intestine, which extends over two-thirds of the body lenght, digestion and absorbsion take place. The gizzard is a muscular organ used to churn the food and then it moves onto the intestine where absorbtion of the food occurs. 8. Your dissection of the earthworm did not go beyond segment 32.
We got the oppertunity to disect a dead earthworm and to explore the inside of the worm. The objectives of this dissection was to describe the appearance of various organs found in the earthworm, and also to name the organs that make up the various systems of the earthworm. In the intestine, which extends over two-thirds of the body lenght, digestion and absorbsion take place. The gizzard is a muscular organ used to churn the food and then it moves onto the intestine where absorbtion of the food occurs. 8. Your dissection of the earthworm did not go beyond segment 32.
A: The mixture that the earthworm ingests is ground up in the gizzard. In the intestine, which extends over two-thirds of the body lenght, digestion and absorbsion take place. The gizzard is a muscular organ used to churn the food and then it moves onto the intestine where absorbtion of the food occurs. 8. Your dissection of the earthworm did not go beyond segment 32.