In Summary: • The temperature inside the coil increases when coil is energized. • Temperature increase is a function of the supply voltage and ambient temperature. • HydraForce coils can withstand high temperature without degradation of the coil. • If the duty cycle of a valve is below 50%, you can use a lower voltage coil to get more. • magnetic force in all work conditions.
Unfortunately, the information you received will not pertain to the problem you are having. There is no set temperature for the evaporator. It will vary with the ambient air being supplied to it. A good rule of thumb is a 20 degree drop between the nearest supply from the evaporator and the return air supply. It's usually rare to get this drop and usually will range from 16 to 18 degrees, which is good. 
-It is designed for measuring the coil temperature of an evaporator. The temperature sensor has a 10K Ωthermistor that is enclosed in a nickel-plated brass shell with epoxy. The sensor has a red 20’ pigtail. The wire is a 22 AWG CL3X cord with 2 conductors. The cable is UL rated for 194°F (90°C). 
Re: On coil / off coil temperature. First you would have to determine what type of kit you are looking at. In your example above, for the indoor coil, the on coil temp would be 24 degrees for a recirculating unit and 45 degrees for a 100% fresh air unit... Re: On coil / off coil temperature. Originally Posted by The Viking First you would have to determine what type of kit you are looking at. In your example above, for the indoor coil, the on coil temp would be 24 degrees for a recirculating unit and 45 degrees for a 100% fresh air unit...
RE: Minimum air off-coil temperature. There are a number of reasons to supply higher temp air in data centers. It's usually for efficiency and so you don't condense on the coil. This means, the chilled water heats up and the air cools down until the equilibrium of 17 or 17.5C is reached on both the medium. In that case, I don't think even a coil of infinite size will cool the air down to 11C, unless the chilled water is supplied at a lower
Temperature differences inside at the air conditioning system air handler's evaporator coil: if the A/C system is has reached steady state operation and normal operation, the temperature of air should be reduced as it moves across the evaporator coil. Typically this temperature drop is 15 to 20 deg .F. . Temperature leaving the air handler's evaporator coil: similar to above, measure the supply air temperature at a hole or crack in the supply plenum above (or downstream from) the evaporator coil. It should be around 55 degF.