The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cytoplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. it holds all of the cell organelles, or stuff in the cell, together. The cytoplasm acts like the cell s skeleton. it is a jelly like substance around nucleus. The cytoplasms function in a plant cell is to help gel the parts of the cell in place but it is also where many of the cells chemical reactions happen.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division.
Cytoplasm is the fluid that fills cells and serves several important functions. Cytoplasm holds the internal components of cells in place and protects them from damage. Cytoplasm stores molecules used for cellular processes, as well as hosts many of these processes within the cell itself. The cytoplasm also hosts a variety of cellular processes, such as glycolysis, which is the first step in cellular respiration. Cellular respiration is how your body makes energy from food. Cell division also occurs in the cytoplasm as well as the synthesis of polypeptides (the molecules that make up proteins).
Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred. 1 The cytoplasm is the place where the cell expands and growth of the cell takes place. 2  The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 3  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 4  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements.
The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. 1 The cytoplasm is the place where the cell expands and growth of the cell takes place. 2  The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 3  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 4  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements.
Cytoplasm is basically the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like material that is eighty percent water and usually clear in color. It is more like a viscous (thick) gel than a watery substance, but it liquefies when shaken or stirred. Cytoplasm, which can also be referred to as cytosol, means cell substance. 
► Another important function of cytoplasm is its role in the movement of the internal organelles as well as the cell in whole. While the actin filaments in the ectoplasm facilitate movement of the cell in whole, the inner protein filaments help the organelles and other structures to move inside the cell. The components of a cell are enclosed within the cell membrane. Though this membrane is like a barrier between individual cells, it allows selective entry of molecules and ions inside the cell. These molecules and ions cross the cell membrane and travel through the cytoplasm to reach the organelles.
The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cyt … oplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. The cytoplasm consists of cytosol and the cellular organelles, except the nucleus. The cytosol is made up of water, salts and organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions.
Cytoplasm is the homogeneous, generally clear jelly-like material that fills cells. The cytoplasm consists of cytosol and the cellular organelles, except the nucleus. The cytosol is made up of water, salts and organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions. The cytoplasm plays an important role in a cell, serving as a molecular soup in which the organelles are suspended and held together by a fatty membrane
In the eukaryotic cell, the cytosol is within the cell membrane and is part of the cytoplasm, which also comprises the mitochondria, plastids, and other organelles (but not their internal fluids and structures); the cell nucleus is separate. 