GNU Wget is a free network utility to retrieve files from the World Wide Web using HTTP and FTP, the two most widely used Internet protocols. 
How to Use Wget in Ubuntu. The wget command allows you to download files from the Internet using a Linux operating system such as Ubuntu. Use this command to download either a single Web page or a complete copy of your company's website. It also includes an option for downloading any external links included on the site
Type the following command to download a single page from the website: wget http://www.example.com/filename. Replace www.example.com with the name of the site you want to download, and replace filename with the name of the file you want to download. Step 4. The wget command allows you to download files from the Internet using a Linux operating system such as Ubuntu. Use this command to download either a single Web page or a complete copy of your company's website. It also includes an option for downloading any external links included on the site
10 Linux Wget Command Examples. First, check whether wget utility is already installed or not in your Linux box, using following command. Please install it using YUM command in case wget is not installed already or you can also download binary package at http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/wget/ . 
GNU Wget is a free network utility to retrieve files from the World Wide Web using HTTP and FTP, the two most widely used Internet protocols. It works non-interactively, thus enabling work in the background, after having logged off. Wget for Windows should work. GNU Wget is a free network utility to retrieve files from the World Wide Web using HTTP and FTP, the two most widely used Internet protocols. It works non-interactively, thus enabling work in the background, after having logged off. . 
w get is a Linux/UNIX command line file downloader.Wget is a free utility for non-interactive download of files from the Web. It supports HTTP, HTTPS, and FTP protocols, as well as retrieval through HTTP proxies.Wget is non-interactive, meaning that it can work in the background, while the user is not logged on. In this post we will discuss different examples of wget command.
Wget is extremely powerful, but like with most other command line programs, the plethora of options it supports can be intimidating to new users. Thus what we have here are a collection of wget commands that you can use to accomplish common tasks from downloading single files to mirroring entire websites. Wget is a free utility – available for Mac, Windows and Linux (included) – that can help you accomplish all this and more. What makes it different from most download managers is that wget can follow the HTML links on a web page and recursively download the files.
Introduction to GNU Wget. GNU Wget is a free software package for retrieving files using HTTP, HTTPS and FTP, the most widely-used Internet protocols. It is a non-interactive commandline tool, so it may easily be called from scripts, jobs, terminals without X-Windows support, etc. 
GNU Wget (or just Wget, formerly Geturl) is a computer program that retrieves content from web servers, and is part of the GNU Project. Its name is derived from World Wide Web and get. It supports downloading via HTTP, HTTPS, and FTP protocols. Recursive download works with FTP as well, where Wget issues the LIST command to find which additional files to download, repeating this process for directories and files under the one specified in the top URL. Shell-like wildcards are supported when the download of FTP URLs is requested.