A contraction is a written form in which a number of words are combined into a new word. Usually, they form when two words are used in conjunction with high frequency, although some languages, such as French, make use of them to keep the spoken sound of a sentence flowing. 
Examples of double contractions in English. Definition: A shortened form of a word or group of words, with the missing letters usually marked by an apostrophe. Contractions are commonly used in speech and in colloquial forms of writing. Words containing two contractional clitics marked with apostrophes (such as shouldn't've) are called double contractions.
Contractions. A contraction is a shortened form of two words written as one word in which an apostrophe takes the place of the missing letter or letters. Often the word not is added to a helping verb to form a contraction. NGfL Cymru- Apostrophes for contraction and possession 1.
Contractions in a sentence from Our Mutual Friend (1865) by Charles Dickens. A contraction is a word or phrase that's (or that has) been shortened by dropping one or more letters. In writing, an apostrophe takes the place of the missing letters. We rely on contractions all the time in normal conversations. 
This article is about contraction in the grammar of modern languages, which involves elision. For contraction in Ancient Greek and the coalescence of two vowels into one, see crasis. For the linguistic function of pronouncing vowels together, see Synaeresis. Latin contains several examples of contractions. One such case is preserved in the verb nolo (I am unwilling/do not want) which was formed by a contraction of non volo (volo meaning “I want”). Similarly this is observed in the first person plural and third person plural forms (nolumus and nolunt respectively).
noun. The definition of contraction is the lengthening or shortening of a muscle fiber or a word formed by combining the sounds of two longer words. 1  An example of a contraction is the action of the uterus during the birth process. 2  An example of a contraction is the word doesn't from does not. contraction-Computer Definition. The shortening of a word or phrase by omitting letters or syllables. In the English language, a contraction generally, but not always, marks the omitted letters or syllables with an apostrophe or a period. Telco, for example, is a contraction of telephone company
(May 2015). A contraction is a shortened version of the written and spoken forms of a word, syllable, or word group, created by omission of internal letters (actually, sounds). Latin contains several examples of contractions. One such case is preserved in the verb nolo (I am unwilling/do not want) which was formed by a contraction of non volo (volo meaning “I want”). Similarly this is observed in the first person plural and third person plural forms (nolumus and nolunt respectively).