Cultural pluralism is a term used when smaller groups within a larger society maintain their unique cultural identities, and their values and practices are accepted by the wider culture provided they are consistent with the laws and values of the wider society. A prominent example of pluralism is 20th Century United States, in which a dominant culture with strong elements of nationalism, a sporting culture, and an artistic culture contained also smaller groups with their own ethnic, religious, and cultural norms.
Pluralism and Diversity. A dictionary definition of pluralism is: Pluralism: a state of society in which members of diverse ethnic, racial, religious, or social groups maintain an autonomous participation in and development of their traditional culture or special interest, within the confines of a common civilisation.
I assume you mean culturally pluralistic society in the sense that: This is a form of society which is made up of people from different ethnic, religious and cultural backgr … ounds. A society which embraces minority groups and is tolerant towards them. Split and merge into it. Answer by MasgudenATZA. Confidence votes 786. This is any society in which citizens can legally and publicly hold multiple competing ethical views and are allowed to choose for themselves what ethical beliefs if any they wish to hold.
America is a pluralistic society in theory but in reality the  people with money are influential and those without it make due.  The consensus is represented by the media wh … ich is sponsored by  those with money. Split and merge into it. Answer by MasgudenATZA. Confidence votes 786. This is any society in which citizens can legally and publicly hold multiple competing ethical views and are allowed to choose for themselves what ethical beliefs if any they wish to hold.
A pluralistic society is characterized by variations in ethnicity, religion, cultural heritage, socio-economic status, i.e. a melting pot as has been said of the US. By cont … rast, a homogeneous society would be primarily made up of one ethnic group, share a common language and heritage. Split and merge into it. Answer by MasgudenATZA. Confidence votes 786. This is any society in which citizens can legally and publicly hold multiple competing ethical views and are allowed to choose for themselves what ethical beliefs if any they wish to hold.
This article is about pluralism as a political philosophy. For the theory that political power in society does not lie with the electorate but is distributed between a wide number of groups, see Pluralism (political theory) . For other uses, see Pluralism (disambiguation) . Pluralism as a political philosophy is the recognition and affirmation of diversity within a political body, which permits the peaceful coexistence of different interests, convictions and lifestyles
Tweet. : a situation in which people of different social classes, religions, races, etc., are together in a society but continue to have their different traditions and interests. : the belief that people of different social classes, religions, races, etc., should live together in a society. 4. a: a state of society in which members of diverse ethnic, racial, religious, or social groups maintain and develop their traditional culture or special interest within the confines of a common civilization b: a concept, doctrine, or policy advocating this state.
› a ​person who ​believes that the ​existence of different ​types of ​people, ​beliefs, and ​opinions within a ​society is a good thing. uk /ˈplʊə.rə.lɪst/ us /ˈplʊr.əl.ɪst-/ (also pluralistic, uk /ˌplʊə.rəlˈɪs.tɪk/ us /ˌplʊr.əl-/). 