Roasting is a dry heat cooking method that is often used for large, tender beef cuts. The best cuts for roasting are obtained from the loin and the rib. In order to properly roast a cut of beef, it should be placed on a rack in a roasting pan that is not too deep and cooked, uncovered, in a preheated oven. When roasting beef it is important to select the proper cut of roast beef to produce moist and tender meat when the roast beef is cooked to the desired doneness. Using the proper beef cooking times and temperatures is critical to the end results.
The beef clod or shoulder is one of the cheapest cuts of beef and is taken from the shoulder region of the cattle. This is why it is sometimes called chuck or shoulder clod. Beef clod consists of a large muscle system and some fat that covers the muscles. Beef clod can be prepared in a variety of methods both dry and moist, but the most recommended method to cook beef clod is to cook it with moist heat or braising.
Cook. Brisket can't hold a candle to shoulder clod. It is by far, more juicy and tasty. Pull it, chop it, mix a little of your favorite BBQ sauce in the meat and serve on your favorite bun. 
Meat Selection. For the most part, cuts of meat to barbecue vary widely from region to region. Traditionally, beef and pork cuts are most common, but poultry (chicken and turkey) is widely prepared, and lamb and goat are regional favorites. Understanding all of the meat options for barbecuing is the first and foremost area that is to be learned by the barbecue enthusiast. BEEF. Briskets – Packer-trimmed briskets typically come from the packer pre-vacuum packaged.
The trimmed tenderloin makes an excellent roast or it can be cut into smaller pieces and sold as filet steaks. Pot Roasts. A pot roast is basically a cut of beef that is cooked in liquid in a pot on top of the stove. Beef cuts from the chuck and round are most often used for pot roast. The chuck section has more fat than the round, which makes chuck roasts more flavorful than round roasts. Print. Beef cuts should be selected according to the planned method of cooking. For example, if beef is to be cooked on a grill, a tougher cut from the round or plate should not be purchased, unless the intention is to tenderize the meat before cooking it.
These cuts, from the shoulder of the animal, contain marbling and connective tissue, which soften during cooking, making it easy to pull the meat apart into moist, tender shards. Beef brisket, from the foreshank/brisket part of the animal, is also sometimes used for pulled beef. 1. Slow-Cook the Beef Until Tender. 1  Trim the fat from a 3- to 3-1/2- pound boneless beef chuck pot roast; if necessary, trim the meat to fit into a 4- to 5-quart slow cooker. 2  Cut 2 large onions into wedges and mince 2 cloves of garlic.
Directions. Season the beef shoulder all over with salt and pepper then brown in a large heavy pot over medium heat. Once browned on all sides, add enough water to cover the roast along with the 1 sliced onion and about 6 cloves of garlic. Cook until the meat is fork tender and comes apart with no resistance, about 2 hours. When done, remove the roast to a platter to cool, reserve the beef broth. Hand shred the meat and set aside
Can be prepared using dry or moist cooking methods. However, for most cuts from the Shoulder Clod, cooking with moist heat or braising, is recommended. Braising makes these cuts more tender and offers greater menu variety for pot roasts, soups and shredded fillings. 1 One of the more economical cuts, the Shoulder Clod is an outstanding value for operators. 2  Versatile cut with delicious flavor and menuing opportunities that take advantage of the trend toward homestyle foods.
A shoulder tender also called beef shoulder petite tender, beef shoulder tender petite roast, bistro filet, rat or teres major steak is a US cut of beef of the teres major muscle from the blade of the shoulder (chuck) . 
1 Second most tender beef muscle. 2  Flavorful, juicy, well-marbled steak, ideal for a variety of menu applications and day parts. 3  Cut from the Chuck Shoulder Clod Top Blade Roast, by cutting along the thick internal connective tissue.This results in two halves that resemble a small Flank Steak. 1 Cut from the Chuck Shoulder Clod Top Blade Roast, by cutting along the thick internal connective tissue.This results in two halves that resemble a small Flank Steak. 2  Rectangular steak that averages 8 oz. each and thickness varies from 3/4 inch to 1-1/4 inches.