Afghanistan. Southern Pashto is spoken by 6 million people in Afghanistan (Ethnologue). It is a co-official language of Afghanistan along with Dari (Eastern Persian) . The relative status of Dari and Pashto are a sensitive topic in Afghan society. 
The Pashto alphabet (Pashto: پښتو الفبې ‎ pax̌to alifbe) is a modified form of the Arabic alphabet with letters added to accommodate phonemes used in Pashto that are not found in Arabic. 
Pashto is a language spoken in South-Central Asia, primarily in Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan as well as by the Pashtuns throughout the world. As the national language of Afghanistan, Pashto is primarily spoken in the east, south and southwest, but also in some northern and western parts of the country. Sizable Pashto-speaking communities also exist in the Middle East, especially in the United Arab Emirates, and Saudi Arabia, as well as in the United States, United Kingdom, Thailand, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Qatar, Australia, Japan and Russia etc.
Pashto is a member of the southeastern Iranian branch of Indo-Iranian languages spoken in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran. There are three main varieties of Pashto: Northern Pashto, spoken mainly in Pakistan; Southern Pashto, spoken mainly in Afghanistan; and Central Pashto, spoken mainly in Pakistan. The exact number of Pashto speakers is not known for sure, but most estimates range from 45 million to 55 million. There are also communities of Pashto speakers in the northeast of Iran, Tajikistan and India, as well as in the UAE, Saudi Arabia and a number of other countries. Pashto was made the national language of Afghanistan by royal decree in 1936.
Pashto (since 1936) and Dari (Persian) are the two official languages of Afghanistan. Persian, however, was the only official language until the 1930s, and it still serves as the lingua franca of the country. Sizable Pashto-speaking communities also exist in the Middle East, especially in the United Arab Emirates, and Saudi Arabia, as well as in the United States, United Kingdom, Thailand, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Qatar, Australia, Japan and Russia etc.
In Pakistan, Pashto is the second-largest language and one of the provincial languages; however, provincial languages have no official status in Pakistan, given the fact that Urdu and English are the official languages of the country. Pashto is spoken as a first language by about 15.42% of Pakistan's 170 million people. It is the main language of the Pashtun-majority regions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Federally Administered Tribal Areas and northern Balochistan.
Pashto is the native language of the Pashtun people of South-Central Asia. It is one of the two official languages of Afghanistan and is also the second-largest regional language of Pakistan which is mainly spoken in the west and northwest of the country. Pashto is the main language among the Pashtun diaspora around the world. Pashto is spoken as a first language by about 15.42% of Pakistan's 170 million people. It is the main language of the Pashtun-majority regions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Federally Administered Tribal Areas and northern Balochistan.
History. The Pashto language is an Indo-European language stemming through the Iranian branch of the language family. It is also known as Afghani. Historically, the Pashto language is associated with the indigenous people who live in the Hindu Kush Mountains in Afghanistan
Pashto. n pl-to, -tos, -tu or-tus. 1. (Languages) a language of Afghanistan and NW Pakistan, belonging to the East Iranian branch of the Indo-European family: since 1936 the official language of Afghanistan. 2. (Peoples) a speaker of the Pashto language; a Pathan. Noun. 1. Pashto-an Iranian language spoken in Afghanistan and Pakistan; the official language of Afghanistan. Pashtu, Paxto, Afghani, Afghan. Iranian language, Iranian-the modern Persian language spoken in Iran.