Muscularis. This typically has an inner circular layer and an outer longitudinal layer of smooth muscle. In several places along the tract the circular layer thickens forming sphincters that act as valves to prevent backflow and control food passage from one organ to the next. 
a.movements of the muscular layer surrounding the alimentary canal that are under voluntary control. b.rhythmic waves of contraction of the muscular layer surrounding the alimentary canal that are responsible for moving contents of the lumen along the length of the digestive tract. c. movement of nerve impulses from the central nervous system to the autorhythmic smooth muscle cells. 
The muscularis layer is ma … de up of two distinct, concentric muscular layers, the inner circular and the outer longitudinal (named for the general direction of their muscle fibers). The four basic tissue layers of the alimentary canal are: Mucosa, Submucosa, Muscularis externa, and the Serosa. From outer to inner: serosa, external muscle layer consisting of  outer circular and inner longitudinal, submucosa and mucous  membrane. 28 people found this useful.
Describe how food is moved through the length of the alimentary canal (b below) and name the layer responsible for these actions. a. Mixing – mechanical digestion in mouth and stomach b. Peristalsis – interaction between circular and longitudinal layers which move food through the alimentary canal 12. 
The main part of the digestive system is the alimentary canal which consists of the mouth, oesophagus, stomach, small intestine and large intestine. 2. There are other organs associated with the alimentary canal to assist with digestion. These include the salivary glands, the pancreas, the liver and the gall bladder. In peristalsis: - The longitudinal and circular muscles in the muscularis externa work in tandem to cause wave-like contractions that moves food down the alimentary canal. - When the circular muscle contracts, the longitudinal muscle relaxes.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the part of the alimentary canal responsible for peristalsis is the oesophagus or the food pipe.by wave like movements of the smooth muscles on the wall of the food pipe the food is sent to the stomach. The four basic tissue layers of the alimentary canal are: Mucosa, Submucosa, Muscularis externa, and the Serosa. From outer to inner: serosa, external muscle layer consisting of  outer circular and inner longitudinal, submucosa and mucous  membrane. 28 people found this useful.
1 Alimentary canal-mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 2  Accessory digestive organs-teeth, tongue, gallbladder, salivary glands, liver, and pancreas. 3  Digestive Process-GI tract is a &#34disassembly&#34 line. 4  Nutrients become more available to the body in each step. 1 The alimentary canal or gastrointestinal (GI) tract digests and absorbs food. 2  Alimentary canal-mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 3  Accessory digestive organs-teeth, tongue, gallbladder, salivary glands, liver, and pancreas. 4  Digestive Process-GI tract is a &#34disassembly&#34 line
Overview. 1  The alimentary canal or gastrointestinal (GI) tract digests and absorbs food. 2  Alimentary canal-mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 3  Accessory digestive organs-teeth, tongue, gallbladder, salivary glands, liver, and pancreas. 1 The alimentary canal or gastrointestinal (GI) tract digests and absorbs food. 2  Alimentary canal-mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 3  Accessory digestive organs-teeth, tongue, gallbladder, salivary glands, liver, and pancreas. 4  Digestive Process-GI tract is a &#34disassembly&#34 line
1 Anatomy of the Digestive System: Organs of the Alimentary Canal CHAPTER 14p. 412-423 Divisions of Digestive System 1. Alimentary Canal or Gastrointestinal Tract (GI)-digests and absorbs food• coiled hollow tube with 2 openings• mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine2. 