The length of time stuffed pork chops cook in the oven will vary  slightly depending on their thickness. On average, the oven should  be set to a temperature of 350 degrees … Fahrenheit, and the chops  should cook for between 45 and 60 minutes. 
Cook all raw pork steaks, chops, and roasts to a minimum internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming. Use cooked pork within two hours (one hour if air temperature is above 90 °F) or refrigerate it at 40 °F or less in shallow, covered containers. Eat within 3 to 4 days, either cold or reheated to 165 °F (hot and steaming). It is safe to freeze ready prepared pork dishes.
Once the pork chop or roast reaches 145 degrees as read by an instant-read thermometer, it needs to sit for three minutes to reach a safe internal temperature, the USDA guidelines recommend. When the internal temperature hits 145, the external temperature will be higher. Your grandmother may roll over in her grave, but pork can be pink now when cooked. The U.S. Department of Agriculture on Tuesday announced it had changed a decades-old guideline and now says that pork, and all whole meat cuts, only have to get to 145 degrees internally, not the 160 the agency had previously suggested.
That could be pork’s new slogan after the United States Department of Agriculture on Tuesday said it was lowering its safe cooking temperature to 145 degrees, from the longtime standard of 160. The new recommendation is in line with what many cookbook authors and chefs have been saying for years. The same temperature guidelines already apply to whole cuts of beef, lamb and veal. Other recommendations are unchanged. Ground pork, beef, lamb and veal should be cooked to 160 degrees, the agency said, and poultry should be cooked to 165 degrees.
New USDA Guidelines Lower Pork Cooking Temperature. New cooking guidelines from the nation’s food-safety agency confirm Pork Checkoff research that shows pork can be consumed safely when cooked to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit, followed by a three-minute rest time. “The new guidelines will help consumers enjoy pork at its most flavorful, juicy – and safe – temperature.”. The revised recommendation applies to pork whole-muscle cuts, such as loin, chops and roasts. Ground pork, like all ground meat, should be cooked to 160 degrees Fahrenheit.
I would recommend cooking boneless pork chops to about 140*F. That is the temperature that most of the recipies i use call for and I always have nice juicy chops.   A … s far as i know, bone in chops should be cooked to the same temperature, they may just take longer to get there. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pork and Pork Products CURFFL Section 113996(a)(3) Unless a customer requests a food to be cooked other than thoroughly, all pork or foods made with pork must be cooked to an minimum internal temperature of at least 145° F for 15 seconds. Some pork contains parasitic worms and harmful bacteria
Perfectly cooked Pork Chops with Balsamic Roasted Vegetables and Gorgonzola. Whether you’re cooking boneless or bone-in pork chops, whether you’re grilling, sauteing, sautéing, roasting, broiling or-pan, frying the rule for pork chops is to cook them to an internal temperature of°. 145 Take care not to go all the way through the chop so that the thermometer makes contact with the pan (I like to go into the chop at about a 45° angle). This temperature guideline, by the way, is the rule for pork tenderloin, too, but ground pork should be cooked to 160°.
The length of time stuffed pork chops cook in the oven will vary  slightly depending on their thickness. On average, the oven should  be set to a temperature of 350 degrees … Fahrenheit, and the chops  should cook for between 45 and 60 minutes. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pork and Pork Products CURFFL Section 113996(a)(3) Unless a customer requests a food to be cooked other than thoroughly, all pork or foods made with pork must be cooked to an minimum internal temperature of at least 145° F for 15 seconds. Some pork contains parasitic worms and harmful bacteria
Today's pork can be safely enjoyed when cooked to an internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming. Use cooked pork within two hours (one hour if air temperature is above 90 °F) or refrigerate it at 40 °F or less in shallow, covered containers. Eat within 3 to 4 days, either cold or reheated to 165 °F (hot and steaming). It is safe to freeze ready prepared pork dishes.