Make DVD labels for free. dvd image by dinostock from Fotolia.com. Modern technology gives us the ability to save documents, pictures or even record family events on DVDs. To achieve a professional look, you will need to create your own DVD label. There are many websites that offer free DVD labels for you to create. Step 1. Choose a DVD label program that meets your needs. You also can use a CD label program, considering DVDs and CDs are similar in size. Additionally, some free DVD label programs come equipped with a DVD cover for you to design. Links to a few recommendations are available in the Resources section. Step 2. Download the desired program to your computer. Once completed, open the program and choose your template. Familiarize yourself with the program and the special add-ons available. Related Reading: How to Make Your Own Wholesale Labels. Step 3. Type the title of your DVD on the label. Most programs come equipped with a variety of backgrounds and will allow you to download your own personal pictures. Step 4. Print your DVD label. Load your printer with the DVD labels you purchased from an office supply store and select File and Print
Disc Labeling Features. 1  Create CD, DVD or Blu-Ray disk labels. 2  Import your own photos to create personalized disc backgrounds and covers. 3  Print on sticky labels, or directly onto printable discs*. 4  Easily move and layer text and images to design labels. 5  Choose from a variety of text styles. 1 Create CD, DVD or Blu-Ray disk labels. 2  Import your own photos to create personalized disc backgrounds and covers. 3  Print on sticky labels, or directly onto printable discs*. 4  Easily move and layer text and images to design labels. 5  Choose from a variety of text styles. 6  Easily format, resize and align your text
Introduction. This tutorial teaches you how to use Adobe Photoshop to create a CD or DVD label for your compact disc copying project. The purpose of this tutorial is to transform a square (or rectangular) picture into a circle with the middle hole as shown below.
Tips. 1  CD label printers are available for printing directly to DVDs and CDs. 2  They print out the label you have designed on your computer and automatically apply it to an inserted disc. 3  These printers offer accurate alignment and firm placement of disc labels. 4  Remember to use disc cases to protect your DVDs. 1 These printers offer accurate alignment and firm placement of disc labels. 2  Remember to use disc cases to protect your DVDs. 3  These will prevent damage to both the disc and the label. 4  You can also use cases as a base for pressing labels on to your DVDs. 5  You can write directly on DVDs to label them.
Peel the label from its backing. 5. Place the label on your blank DVD. Press it down firmly and evenly to avoid wrinkles. Make sure to align the label properly so that it doesn't hang off the edge of the disc. 1  Some labeling bundles come with a tool to help apply labels. 1 These printers offer accurate alignment and firm placement of disc labels. 2  Remember to use disc cases to protect your DVDs. 3  These will prevent damage to both the disc and the label. 4  You can also use cases as a base for pressing labels on to your DVDs. 5  You can write directly on DVDs to label them.
1 Remember to use disc cases to protect your DVDs. 2  These will prevent damage to both the disc and the label. 3  You can also use cases as a base for pressing labels on to your DVDs. 4  You can write directly on DVDs to label them. 5  Many burnable DVDs come with blank lines that can be filled in using a permanent marker. 1 These printers offer accurate alignment and firm placement of disc labels. 2  Remember to use disc cases to protect your DVDs. 3  These will prevent damage to both the disc and the label. 4  You can also use cases as a base for pressing labels on to your DVDs. 5
RonyaSoft CD DVD Label Maker is a fast and easy program to design and print beautiful covers, labels, and box inserts! Software comes with all the tools needed to create a label or cover in minutes, without having to learn Corel or Photoshop. CD label maker will help you to make your own CD and DVD labels and covers for video and MP3 collections, family photo archives and data backups, prominent events and special gifts. With the CD label software you won't get frustrated by illegible handwritten scribbles on your CD-Rs and DVD-Rs
Use Disketch to create CD and DVD labels as well as cover images for jewel cases. You can import your own artwork, or set a simple background color and organize artist information along with track lists. Create professional CD and DVD labels in a flash. 1 Create CD, DVD or Blu-Ray disk labels. 2  Import your own photos to create personalized disc backgrounds and covers. 3  Print on sticky labels, or directly onto printable discs*. 4  Easily move and layer text and images to design labels. 5  Choose from a variety of text styles. 6  Easily format, resize and align your text