Answer: In that uniquely British way that we have, it comes from a Hindu word meaning courage-vilāyatī. It was an Indian army expression for Britain when you weren’t there, hence the reason people talk about going back to Blighty, but never when they’re actually in it. 
scottietwenty3. 1 vote Vote for this answer. Blighty is an English slang term for Britain, deriving from the Hindustani word vilayati (vilâyatî) (विलायती pronounced bilati bilâti In many indian dialects) and languages, meaning foreign and is itself derived From/The arabic urdu, word wilayat meaning a kingdom. or ministry Blighty originates from the First World War when a soldier suffering an injury would be sent back to Britain from India and is derived from the Hindu word bilayati meaning foreign land.
Blighty was the inevitable British soldier’s corruption of bilāyatī, meaning Britain in particular. But it only came into common use as a term for Britain at the beginning of the First World War in France about 1915. Old Blighty (historically just Blighty) is an affectionate way of referring to Britain, still common among expatriates.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the word derives from bilayati, a regional variant of the Urdu word vilayati, meaning foreign, British, English or European.. In India, vilayati came to be known as an adjective meaning European, and specifically English or British. The term was particularly used by World War I poets such as Wilfred Owen and Siegfried Sassoon. During that war, a  Blighty wound  — a wound serious enough to require recuperation away from the trenches, but not serious enough to kill or maim the victim—was hoped for by many, and sometimes self-inflicted.
1 vote Vote for this answer. Blighty originates from the First World War when a soldier suffering an injury would be sent back to Britain from India and is derived from the Hindu word bilayati meaning foreign land.
Blighty  is a British English slang term for Britain or often specifically England. It was first used during the Boer War, though it was not until World War I that the word spread widely. The term was particularly used by World War I poets such as Wilfred Owen and Siegfried Sassoon. During that war, a  Blighty wound  — a wound serious enough to require recuperation away from the trenches, but not serious enough to kill or maim the victim—was hoped for by many, and sometimes self-inflicted.
Blighty. Q From Sally Marden: Thank you for a fabulous site! I stumbled on it while looking for the derivation of Old Dart, since I am a Brit living in Australia and had no idea why the locals referred to England so. Old Blighty (historically just Blighty) is an affectionate way of referring to Britain, still common among expatriates.
During World War I, Dear Old Blighty was a common sentimental reference, suggesting a longing for home by soldiers in the trenches. The term was particularly used by World War I poets such as Wilfred Owen and Siegfried Sassoon. During that war, a  Blighty wound  — a wound serious enough to require recuperation away from the trenches, but not serious enough to kill or maim the victim—was hoped for by many, and sometimes self-inflicted.
It was British soldiers serving in India who first started calling their homeland Blighty. The word was an alteration of Urdu bilāyatī ‘foreign, European’, which came from Arabic wilāyat ‘country, district’. During the First World War soldiers hoped for a blighty one —a wound not too serious but bad enough to get safe passage home. almighty, Aphrodite, flighty, mighty, nightie. 1 Inflicting or otherwise causing a blighty wound was considered a capital offense, which was punishable by execution by a firing squad. 2  A few nights later he copped a Blighty bullet in his leg and I last saw him in Dover Hospital in 1943.
Bilayut, Billait. Europe. The word is properly Arabic Wildyat, “a kingdom, a province,” variously used with specific denotation, as the Afghans term their own country often by this name; and in India again it has come to be employed for distant Europe. ... Old Blighty (historically just Blighty) is an affectionate way of referring to Britain, still common among expatriates.