Sections. By Michael Perry, M.D. A pinched nerve in the spine is typically caused when surrounding tissues are putting pressure on the nerve. These tissues could consist of surrounding bone, cartilage, muscle, tendons or any other tissues that are inflamed or that have otherwise invaded the nerve’s space. 
A pinched nerve is an injury to a nerve or group of nerves resulting from compression, entrapment or stretching. Numbness, tingling, burning or pain can result. In some cases, muscle weakness can also occur. Symptoms of a pinched nerve may develop gradually or can come on suddenly. Find a Top Neurologist Near You. Causes of pinched nerves include herniated (slipped) discs in the neck or spine; degenerative disc disease; stenosis (narrowing) of the spinal canal; repetitive use injuries; bone spurs or fractures; and inflammation around, or irritation of, nerves.
The term pinched nerve describes damage or injury to a nerve or set of nerves caused by compression to those nerves. The pressure causes pain, abnormal sensations and/or impaired function of the affected nerves. The pains or sensations may be distant from the point of pressure. Causes. 
Causes. A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure (compression) is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues. In some cases, this tissue might be bone or cartilage — such as in the case of a herniated spinal disk that compresses a nerve root. In other cases, muscle or tendons may be the culprits. A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues — such as bones, cartilage, muscles or tendons. This pressure disrupts the nerve's function, causing pain, tingling, numbness or weakness. A pinched nerve can occur anywhere in your body. A herniated disk in your lower spine, for example, may put pressure on a nerve root, causing pain that radiates down the back of your leg (sciatica). Likewise, a pinched nerve in your wrist can lead to pain and numbness in your hand and fingers (carpal tunnel syndrome)
A pinched nerve in the neck or lower back can be caused by a herniated disc, arthritis, bone spurs, or spinal stenosis. Pinched nerve describes one type of damage or injury to a nerve or set of nerves. Nerves are important for carrying signals to and from the brain, for example to make limbs move and to use senses, like touch. The injury may result from compression, constriction, or stretching
Pinched median nerve. A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure (compression) is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues. In some cases, this tissue might be bone or cartilage, such as in the case of a herniated spinal disk that compresses a nerve root. This pressure causes inflammation of the nerve and disrupts the nerve's function. If a nerve is pinched for only a short time, there's usually no permanent damage. Once the pressure is relieved, nerve function returns to normal. However, if the pressure continues, chronic pain and permanent nerve damage can occur.