The Show Wipeout is filmed off the 14 freeway on a ranch outside of Santa Clarita, California. 
The show itself has two different versions (and locations) depending on where in the world you’re watching. The original American version is filmed on a ranch outside of Los Angeles, California in a community called Canyon Country. “Wipeout” the TV Show. Tuesday, 13th July 2010 by Chris Hannigan. The crazy American TV series “Wipeout” is ranked as the third most popular game show in the world, and for a long time its exact outdoor filming location remained a mystery.
Wipeout Australia ‍ '​s format follows that of its American forerunner, although the initial number of contestants who compete in the first (Qualifier) round is 20, rather than 24. (The UK version, Thus only eight competitors do not advance, rather than the half who are eliminated in the US show. The 160 successful contestants then participated in the filming of the series over a period of one week starting 2 October 2008 at the international Wipeout obstacle course, located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Post-Production began in Sydney in November 2008.
On August 29, 2012, Wipeout was picked up for a sixth season. In addition, it was announced that former co-host Jill Wagner would be returning to the series after a season-long absence. John Anderson and John Henson, also returning as hosts. The series premiered on June 24, 2008, on ABC. After the pilot was shot, co-host Elon Gold was replaced. Producers called in Michael Glazer to find a comic host replacement that eventually went to John Henson.
Wipeout Canada Overview. Wipeout Canada is filmed at the international Wipeout course located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. This location is used for all foreign versions of the show, of which there are over 30 currently being made. Only the original U.S. Wipeout has its own dedicated course, located in California. The format of the show is the almost the same as the American Wipeout. 20 contestants start out by completing the Qualifier obstacle course.
The British version of the show, known as “Total Wipeout” , is filmed on a set located in Argentina. Regardless of where you look, both sets are remarkably similar when viewed from above and interestingly, they’re both within 5 km of each other in latitude, but in opposite directions from the equator! “Wipeout” the TV Show. Tuesday, 13th July 2010 by Chris Hannigan. The crazy American TV series “Wipeout” is ranked as the third most popular game show in the world, and for a long time its exact outdoor filming location remained a mystery.
Wipeout, presented on air as Wipeout Australia, is an Australian game show, which is based on the U.S. game show of the same name. The game show premiered on the Nine Network on Tuesday 3 February 2009 at 7:30 pm for an initial run of eight episodes. The 160 successful contestants then participated in the filming of the series over a period of one week starting 2 October 2008 at the international Wipeout obstacle course, located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Post-Production began in Sydney in November 2008.
Wipeout was a game show series in which contestants competed in what was billed as the world's largest obstacle course . Wipeout was hosted and commentated by John Henson and John Anderson, while Jill Wagner acted as the on-location presenter. The show aired on ABC from June 24, 2008 to September 7, 2014. The series premiered on June 24, 2008, on ABC. After the pilot was shot, co-host Elon Gold was replaced. Producers called in Michael Glazer to find a comic host replacement that eventually went to John Henson.