1 Semi-natural vegetation is generally included in the 'natural' landscape, as humans have influenced the natural vegetation in many areas and certain values and services are provided by semi-natural and natural vegetation. 2  Some introduced, i.e., non-native, species are usually a component of semi-natural vegetation. The diversity of vegetation for an area can be specified using any of the three descriptive categories noted above, e.g., 1  Alberta has forest, shrub, and grassland vegetation; 2  Canada has temperate, boreal and arctic vegetation; or,
Top 10 facts about the world. Vegetation is plant life, which can vary from unexplored tropical forests to the cultivated plants of a farm or garden. Plant life is a topic of interest among many scientists and researchers because it plays an important role in the interconnected systems of life on Earth. Other animals in turn prey on animals which feed on vegetation. Gardeners, whether they are growing food or ornamental plants, utilize plant life in a variety of creative ways, depending on the climate or zone they grow in. In areas where vegetation is lacking or scrubby, it can contribute to environmental problems.
Medical Definition of VEGETATION. : an abnormal outgrowth upon a body part; specifically: any of the warty excrescences on the valves of the heart that are composed of various tissue elements including fibrin and collagen and that are typical of endocarditis. 
The term vegetation is used in ecology to describe the overall characteristics of plant cover in an area by: 1  referring to dominant plant growth forms or structural characteristics, e.g., forest vegetation, grassland vegetation; The diversity of vegetation for an area can be specified using any of the three descriptive categories noted above, e.g., 1  Alberta has forest, shrub, and grassland vegetation; 2  Canada has temperate, boreal and arctic vegetation; or,
Vegetation is a broader term than flora, which refers specifically to the plant diversity of an area. Spatially, vegetation can be thought of as the mosaic of plant communities across the landscape. The diversity of vegetation for an area can be specified using any of the three descriptive categories noted above, e.g., 1  Alberta has forest, shrub, and grassland vegetation; 2  Canada has temperate, boreal and arctic vegetation; or,
On these maps, vegetation is pictured as a scale, or index, of greenness. Greenness is based on several factors: the number and type of plants, how leafy they are, and how healthy they are. In places where foliage is dense and plants are growing quickly, the index is high, represented in dark green. It is broader than the term flora which refers to species composition. Perhaps the closest synonym is plant community, but vegetation can, and often does, refer to a wider range of spatial scales than that term does, including scales as large as the global.
Best Answer: Vegetation means plant life and includes trees. Vegetation is the plant life or the plant ground cover of a region, not the particular taxa, life forms, structure, spatial extent, or any other specific botanical or geographic characteristics. It is broader than the term flora which refers exclusively to species composition. Report Abuse. Vegetation is the plant life or the plant ground cover of a region. some forms of vegitation in the desert: Barrel Cactus-many people believe the barrel cactus is filled with water. Not true. It is filled with a slimy alkaline juice. Native Americans used its sharp, hooked spines as fishhooks.
Areas where the satellite did not collect data are gray. Vegetation is assemblages of plant species and the ground cover they provide. It is a general term, without specific reference to particular taxa, life forms, structure, spatial extent, or any other specific botanical or geographic characteristics. It is broader than the term flora which refers to species composition. Perhaps the closest synonym is plant community, but vegetation can, and often does, refer to a wider range of spatial scales than that term does, including scales as large as the global.