Legumes are plants with seed pods that split into two halves. Edible seeds from plants in the legume family include beans, peas, lentils, soybeans, and peanuts. Since peanuts are nutritionally similar to tree nuts, information on the health benefits of peanuts is presented in the article on nuts. Substituting beans, peas, and lentils for foods that are high in saturated fat or refined carbohydrates is likely to help lower the risk of type 2 DM and cardiovascular disease. Soybeans and foods made from soybeans (soy foods) are excellent sources of protein.
Legumes are plants with seeds in pods. They include beans, peas, lentils, peanuts and soybeans. Legumes have been a major source of protein in the diet for more than 5000 years, according to the University of Minnesota Extension. In addition to protein, legumes are also high in fiber, micronutrients and phytochemicals. 
Well-known legumes include alfalfa, clover, peas, beans, lentils, lupins, mesquite, carob, soybeans, peanuts and tamarind. A legume fruit is a simple dry fruit that develops from a simple carpel and usually dehisces (opens along a seam) on two sides. A common name for this type of fruit is a pod, although the term pod is also applied to a few other fruit types, such as that of vanilla (a capsule) and of radish (a silique)
A legume (/ˈlɛɡjuːm/ or /ˌləˈɡjuːm/) is a plant in the family Fabaceae (or Leguminosae), or the fruit or seed of such a plant. Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules. A legume fruit is a simple dry fruit that develops from a simple carpel and usually dehisces (opens along a seam) on two sides.
Beans and other legumes: Cooking tips. This guide describes common types of beans and legumes, tips for preparing them, and ways to add more legumes to your meals and snacks. Legumes — a class of vegetables that includes beans, peas and lentils — are among the most versatile and nutritious foods available. Legumes are typically low in fat, contain no cholesterol, and are high in folate, potassium, iron and magnesium. They also contain beneficial fats and soluble and insoluble fiber. 
Beans. The most common varieties of legumes are beans. These include adzuki beans, black beans, soybeans, anasazi beans, fava beans, garbanzo beans (chickpeas), kidney beans and lima beans. These foods are high in protein and carbohydrates but low in fat. Similar to other nuts, these legumes contain high concentrations of protein, fat and carbohydrates. For example, 1 cup of dry-roasted soy nuts contains 68.1 grams of protein, 37.2 grams of fat, 56.3 grams of carbohydrates and 776 calories.
1 Foods from the legume family include beans, peas, lentils, peanuts, and soybeans. ( 2 More information). 3  Legumes are excellent sources of protein, low-glycemic index carbohydrates, essential micronutrients, and fiber. Substituting beans, peas, and lentils for foods that are high in saturated fat or refined carbohydrates is likely to help lower the risk of type 2 DM and cardiovascular disease. Soybeans and foods made from soybeans (soy foods) are excellent sources of protein.
Legumes are plants that bear their fruit in pods, which are casings with two halves, or hinges. Legumes are a very healthy food because it is low in fat and high in protein. Legumes are also very high in fiber and other nutrients. 
Black beans are a common example of legumes. Legumes are great sources of fat, protein and carbohydrates. Different varieties contain varying amounts of these nutrients, with beans, nuts, peas and lentils all having unique nutritional profiles. Similar to other nuts, these legumes contain high concentrations of protein, fat and carbohydrates. For example, 1 cup of dry-roasted soy nuts contains 68.1 grams of protein, 37.2 grams of fat, 56.3 grams of carbohydrates and 776 calories.