Through the hormones it produces, the thyroid gland influences almost all of the metabolic processes in your body. Thyroid disorders can range from a small, harmless goiter (enlarged gland) that needs no treatment to life-threatening cancer. The most common thyroid problems involve abnormal production of thyroid hormones. Too much thyroid hormone results in a condition known as hyperthyroidism.
There are several different disorders that can arise when the thyroid produces too much hormone (hyperthyroidism) or not enough (hypothyroidism). Four common thyroid disorders include Hashimoto's disease, Graves' disease, goiter, and thyroid nodules. The body's systems speed up and cause symptoms that are common to hyperthyroidism when there’s a high level of thyroid hormone in the bloodstream. Symptoms include: 1  anxiety. 2  irritability. 3  fatigue. 4  hand tremors. 5  increased or irregular heartbeat. 6  excessive sweating. 7  difficulty sleeping. 8  diarrhea or frequent bowel movements.
Graves' disease is the cause of about 50% to 80% of case of hyperthyroidism in the United States. Other causes include multinodular goiter, toxic adenoma, inflammation of the thyroid, eating too much iodine, and too much synthetic thyroid hormone. A less common cause is a pituitary adenoma. Hyperthyroidism, also known as over active thyroid and hyperthyreosis, is the condition that occurs due to excessive production of thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland. Thyrotoxicosis is the condition that occurs due to excessive thyroid hormone of any cause and therefore includes hyperthyroidism.
Graves’ disease was named for the doctor who first described it more than 150 years ago. It’s the most common cause of hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid). It’s an autoimmune disorder and occurs when the body's immune system mistakenly attacks the thyroid gland. The body's systems speed up and cause symptoms that are common to hyperthyroidism when there’s a high level of thyroid hormone in the bloodstream. Symptoms include: 1  anxiety. 2  irritability. 3  fatigue. 4  hand tremors. 5  increased or irregular heartbeat. 6  excessive sweating. 7  difficulty sleeping. 8  diarrhea or frequent bowel movements.
In iodine-sufficient regions, the most common cause of hypothyroidism is Hashimoto's thyroiditis —also an autoimmune disease. In addition, the thyroid gland may also develop several types of nodules and cancer. The thyroid may be affected by some frequent thyroid diseases. Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency
Graves’ disease, also known as toxic diffuse goiter, is an autoimmune disorder that is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the United States, a condition in which the thyroid gland produces excessive hormones. 
1 Thyroid cancer: An uncommon form of cancer, thyroid cancer is usually curable. 2  Surgery, radiation, and hormone treatments may be used to treat thyroid cancer. 3  Thyroid nodule: A small abnormal mass or lump in the thyroid gland. 4  Thyroid nodules are extremely common. 1 Surgery, radiation, and hormone treatments may be used to treat thyroid cancer. 2  Thyroid nodule: A small abnormal mass or lump in the thyroid gland. 3  Thyroid nodules are extremely common. 4  Few are cancerous. 5  They may secrete excess hormones, causing hyperthyroidism, or cause no problems.
Thyroid Disease Symptoms and Signs. Thyroid disease is a common problem that can cause symptoms because of over-or under-function of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is an essential organ for producing thyroid hormones, which maintain are body metabolism. The thyroid gland is located in the front of the neck below the Adam's apple