However, the timeline to complete state checks can vary. In rare cases, it can take up to three or four weeks for a completed background check, according to The University of Mississippi Department of Human Resources. 
As background checks differ from company-to-company, the time frame may differ at all points in time. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days. This is because educational institutions, courts and government agencies usually take enough time to get back with required details. If a criminal background check process includes an FBI background check, then you may add 30 days to the whole process as well. As all details are gathered from a variety of sources and synchronized at one place in the end, one must remain prepared for the number of days it may take.
Online Services. How long background checks take depends on the type of information you need. Some information can be delivered instantly, while other checks can take up to four days to process. Below is a list of the different places you can gather background check information and how long each takes.
Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate. Speeding Up Check. The best way to speed up the process of background checking is to provide the agency with all of the required information and documentation, and to make sure the information is complete. For example, that addresses are given for all former employers and references.
While most US background checks take at most four days to run, employers can take 1-2 weeks to review your background records. You can learn more about employer background checks here. Some information can be delivered instantly, while other checks can take up to four days to process. Below is a list of the different places you can gather background check information and how long each takes.
Common reasons for delay. According to A Matter of Fact, the most common reason for delay in completing background checks is when employers do not fill out background check request forms accurately and completely, and when they fail to get the authorization and release forms signed by the job applicant. Speeding Up Check. The best way to speed up the process of background checking is to provide the agency with all of the required information and documentation, and to make sure the information is complete. For example, that addresses are given for all former employers and references.
A common question is How long does a background check take?. In most cases employment background check reports are complete in one to three business days from the time we receive the order. Also, remember that information for a background check is gathered from multiple sources. Some courts, employers, and schools can be hard to contact or are slow to respond. Results from these sources are usually back within a week.
Most employers, particularly small-and medium-sized companies, outsource background checks to consumer reporting agencies. These agencies are generally very fast, but the time it takes the check to come back to the employer depends on a number of factors. Speeding Up Check. The best way to speed up the process of background checking is to provide the agency with all of the required information and documentation, and to make sure the information is complete. For example, that addresses are given for all former employers and references.
A: Cost varies according to depth and quality of the check. Basic background checks typically cost from $50 to $150 (based on the number of searches requested). More careful, comprehensive background checks can cost from $200 to $500. 