THE HABER PROCESS This page describes the Haber Process for the manufacture of ammonia from nitrogen and hydrogen, and then goes on to explain the reasons for the conditions used in the process. The catalyst ensures that the reaction is fast enough for a dynamic equilibrium to be set up within the very short time that the gases are actually in the reactor. Separating the ammonia. When the gases leave the reactor they are hot and at a very high pressure.
1 Ruthenium on a graphite support catalyst. 2  The ruthenium catalyst used in the Kellogg Advanced Ammonia Process (KAAP) has a considerably higher surface area than conventional iron-based catalysts, and is claimed to be 10-20 times more reactivity than iron-based catalysts. At high pressures most of the ammonia can be condensed by cooling water while at lower pressures (15-20 MPa) the refrigeration requirements are high (UNIDO, 1979 p.173). Some examples of different catalyst types are (Ullmann’s, 2011 p.169): 1  Cobalt-modified magnetite catalyst.
Ammonia or azane is a compound of nitrogen and hydrogen with the formula NH 3. It is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. Ammonia contributes significantly to the nutritional needs of terrestrial organisms by serving as a precursor to food and fertilizers. Ammonia is a colourless gas with a characteristic pungent smell. It is lighter than air, its density being 0.589 times that of air. It is easily liquefied due to the strong hydrogen bonding between molecules; the liquid boils at −33.3 °C (−27.94 °F), and freezes at −77.7 °C (−107.86 °F) to white crystals.
Haber together with his assistant Robert Le Rossignol developed the high-pressure devices and catalysts used to demonstrate the Haber process at laboratory scale. They demonstrated their process in the summer of 1909 by producing ammonia from air drop by drop, at the rate of about 125 ml (4 US fl oz) per hour. During World War I, the synthetic ammonia was used for the production of nitric acid, a precursor to munitions. The Allies had access to large amounts of sodium nitrate deposits in Chile (so called Chile saltpetre) that belonged almost totally to British industries.
THE AMMONIA MANUFACTURING PROCESS Ammonia is produced in a process known as the Haber process, in which nitrogen and hydrogen react in the presence of an iron catalyst to form ammonia. The hydrogen is formed by reacting natural gas and steam at high temperatures and the nitrogen is supplied from the air 1. H 2 + CO 2 Air is mixed in with the gas stream to give a hydrogen:nitrogen ratio of 3:1. Water, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide (all of which poison the iron catalyst used in the ammonia synthesis) are removed.
However it is not possible to use ammonia directly as it is too volatile and is poisonous. Instead a solution of urea in water is injected into the hot gases emerging from the engine in the exhaust. Urea is thermally decomposed to ammonia and carbon dioxide. This is the reverse of the process used to make ammonia: Unlike ammonia, urea is safe and easy to handle. The products, ammonia and carbon dioxide, together with the exhaust gases, are passed immediately over a catalyst in the exhaust system
This catalyst is referred to as the ammonia slip catalyst (ASC), ammonia guard catalyst, or ammonia oxidation catalyst (AMOX). The ACS catalyst becomes increasingly important in SCR systems designed for high NOx conversion efficiency, operating at high NH 3 -to-NOx ratio which tends to increase the ammonia slip. Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NOx by nitrogen compounds, such as ammonia or urea —commonly referred to as simply “SCR”—has been developed for and well proven in industrial stationary applications.
The Haber process, also called the Haber–Bosch process, is an artificial nitrogen fixation process and is the main industrial procedure for the production of ammonia today. It is named after its inventors, the German chemists Fritz Haber and Carl Bosch, who developed it in the first half of the twentieth century. During World War I, the synthetic ammonia was used for the production of nitric acid, a precursor to munitions. The Allies had access to large amounts of sodium nitrate deposits in Chile (so called Chile saltpetre) that belonged almost totally to British industries.
A brief summary of the Haber Process. The Haber Process combines nitrogen from the air with hydrogen derived mainly from natural gas (methane) into ammonia. The reaction is reversible and the production of ammonia is exothermic. A flow scheme for the Haber Process looks like this: Some notes on the conditions The catalyst The catalyst is actually slightly more complicated than pure iron. The catalyst ensures that the reaction is fast enough for a dynamic equilibrium to be set up within the very short time that the gases are actually in the reactor. Separating the ammonia. When the gases leave the reactor they are hot and at a very high pressure.
Types of catalytic reactions Catalysts can be divided into two main types-heterogeneous and homogeneous. In a heterogeneous reaction, the catalyst is in a different phase from the reactants. In a homogeneous reaction, the catalyst is in the same phase as the reactants. TYPES OF CATALYSIS This page looks at the the different types of catalyst (heterogeneous and homogeneous) with examples of each kind, and explanations of how they work. You will also find a description of one example of autocatalysis-a reaction which is catalysed by one of its products.