Middle back pain can also be due to more serious conditions, such as fibromyalgia, spondylitis (infection or inflammation of the spinal joints), or a herniated disc. A bulging disc can put pressure on the nerve roots coming out from the spine, resulting in middle back pain. Other possible causes of middle back pain. Middle back pain can also be due to systemic problems or problems affecting other body systems, which can be serious or life threatening in some cases.
In most cases, upper and middle back pain is caused by: 1  Overuse, muscle strain, or injury to the muscles, ligaments, and discs that support your spine. 2  Poor posture. 3  Myofascial painMyofascial pain that affects the connective tissue of a muscle or group of muscles. Conditions that put pressure on the spinal nerves also can cause pain. These include: 1  OsteoarthritisOsteoarthritis. 2  This occurs when the cartilage that cushions the small facet joints in the spine breaks down. 3  When this happens, the back bones rub together and cause damage and pain.
Sitting or standing for long periods of time can also cause serious middle back pain. The effects of poor posture on the back may not cause middle back pain immediately. Instead, this causes pain gradually over time. Often as a result of muscle strains and sprains or other minor back injuries, muscle spasms and cramps can be another cause of middle back pain. This condition occurs when muscles in the back tense up.
See a picture of the spine. Upper and middle back pain is not as common as low back pain or neck pain, because the bones in this area of the back don't flex or move as much as the bones in your lower back or neck. Instead, they work with the ribs to keep the back stable and help protect vital organs, such as the heart and lungs. Upper and middle back pain may be caused by: 1  Overuse, muscle strain, or injury to the muscles, ligaments, and discs that support your spine. 2  Poor posture.
Cause. In most cases, upper and middle back pain is caused by: 1  Overuse, muscle strain, or injury to the muscles, ligaments, and discs that support your spine. 2  Poor posture. 3  Myofascial pain that affects the connective tissue of a muscle or group of muscles
1 The breakdown of the discs can cause back or neck pain, arthritis, spinal stenosis, or a herniated disc. 2  A sudden injury to your back, such as from a fall or a car accident, may also start this process. 3  This problem can occur anywhere on your spine. 4  But in most cases, it occurs in the discs in the lower back and neck. Conditions that put pressure on the spinal nerves also can cause pain. These include: 1  OsteoarthritisOsteoarthritis. 2  This occurs when the cartilage that cushions the small facet joints in the spine breaks down. 3  When this happens, the back bones rub together and cause damage and pain.
Middle back pain is any type of pain or discomfort in the area between your upper and lower back. Health care professionals refer to this area as the lower thoracic area or lower thoracic spine. The upper thoracic area or upper thoracic spine makes up part of the upper back. Prompt diagnosis and treatment of middle back pain can help control symptoms and reduce the risk of complications, such as disability. Seek prompt medical care if your middle back pain is severe, is persistent, or causes you concern.
Although upper back pain is not a very common spinal disorder, it can cause significant discomfort and pain when it does occur. The most common causes of upper back pain are muscular irritation (myofascial pain) and joint dysfunction. There can be an injury to a disc in the upper back (such as a thoracic herniated disc or degenerated disc) that causes upper back pain, but such injuries are very rare. 
Middle back pain may also cause referred pain in the chest as well. The thoracic spine, or middle back, connects the chest and ribs to the spine. Referred pain throughout the chest can be caused since the nerves in the chest or abdomen may share nerves that can become affected within the spine. Instead, this causes pain gradually over time. Often as a result of muscle strains and sprains or other minor back injuries, muscle spasms and cramps can be another cause of middle back pain. This condition occurs when muscles in the back tense up.
Upper back pain, also called middle back pain or thoracic back pain, is back pain that is felt in the region of the thoracic vertebrae, which are between the bottom of the neck and top of the lumbar spine. It has a number of potential causes, ranging from muscle strain to collapse of a vertebra or rare serious diseases. 