Osteoarthritis -- also known as degenerative joint disease -- occurs when the cartilage that covers the tops of bones, known as articular cartilage, degenerates or wears down. This causes swelling, pain, and sometimes the development of osteophytes -- bone spurs -- when the ends of the two bones rub together. As with most types of osteoarthritis, pain is a key symptom. A person with shoulder arthritis is likely to have pain while moving the shoulder and after moving the shoulder. The person can even have pain while sleeping. Another symptom may be a limited range of motion
Osteoarthritis of the acromioclavicular (AC) joint is a common condition causing anterior or superior shoulder pain, especially with overhead and cross-body activities. This most commonly occurs in middle-aged individuals because of degeneration to the fibrocartilaginous disk that cushions the articulations. 
Shoulder osteoarthritis (degenerative arthritis of the shoulder). Osteoarthritis in the shoulder joints is a common cause of shoulder pain. Shoulder osteoarthritis can affect a person's range of movement and daily life. Osteoarthritis is the 'wear and tear' form of arthritis affecting the joints. The shoulder is made up of two joints, the acromioclavicular (AC) joint and the glenohumeral joint, also called scapulothoracic joint
Typically, arthritis is indicated by a gradual onset of pain, tenderness and limited range of motion. Acromioclavicular arthritis comes in many forms, most commonly osteoarthritis, followed by forms of inflammatory arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis is a degenerative joint disease that involves two primary processes: 1  The cartilage in the joints breaks down. 2  Abnormal bony growths, called osteophytes or bone spurs, develop in the joint.
Arthritis is a degenerative disease of a joint. Thus, arthritis of the AC joint is a degenerative disease of the acromioclavicular joint or AC joint. As a person becomes older and uses the shoulder, normal wear and tear, or degeneration, of the cartilage takes place in the joint. Similar to arthritis in other joints of the body, there is pain and swelling in the joint as it is used. AC joint arthritis—osteoarthritis of the acromioclavicular joint—is common in middle age. Arthritic AC Joint on left image, compared with a normal AC joint on the right.
The acromioclavicular (AC) joint in the shoulder is a common spot for osteoarthritis to develop in middle age. Degeneration of the AC joint can be painful and can cause difficulty using the shoulder for everyday activities. This guide will help you understand. 
Acromioclavicular osteoarthritis (AC joint arthritis) is a progressively degenerative disease that cannot be reversed; however, a few steps may be taken to slow the degenerative process and control pain. Watch: AC Joint Osteoarthritis Video. Acromioclavicular osteoarthritis (AC joint arthritis) is a progressively degenerative disease that cannot be reversed; however, a few steps may be taken to slow the degenerative process and control pain. 1  Another common type of shoulder arthritis is Glenohumeral Arthritis.
Degeneration causes the cartilage that cushions the joint to wear out. This type of arthritis is called osteoarthritis. Doctors sometimes refer to this type of arthritis as arthrosis. The acromioclavicular (AC) joint in the shoulder is a common spot for osteoarthritis to develop in middle age. Degeneration of the AC joint can be painful and can cause difficulty using the shoulder for everyday activities. 