Biblical Meaning: The name Zebedee is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Zebedee is: Abundant, portion. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. 
Dictionaries-Smith's Bible Dictionary-Zebedee. (my gift) (Greek form of Zabdi) a fisherman of Galilee, the father of the apostles James the Great and John (Matthew 4:21) and the husband of Salome. (Matthew 27:56; Mark 15:40) He probably lived either at Bethsaida or in its immediate neighborhood.
Hello, Guest. Zebedee is an adorable and unusual New Testament name--which may sound like but is not a contradiction in terms. Unlike some of the longer biblical Z-names, Zebedee has a more lighthearted usability, with its gleeful ee-ending. And Zeb makes a fabulous nickname. In the New Testament, Zebedee plays the major role of the fisherman father of two disciples, James and John, and was with his sons mending his fishing nets when they were called by Christ. The name was popularized in the U.K. by a jack-in-the-box puppet named Zebedee on an early kids' TV show, The Magic Roundabout.
[ 3 syll. ze-be-dee, zeb-ed-ee ] The baby boy name Zebedee is pronounced as Z EH B-ih-Diy in English †. Zebedee is mainly used in English and it is of Hebrew origin. Biblical name: Zebedee is of the meaning my gift; given by God. The name was borne in the Bible by the father of the apostles James and John. It was adopted in the 17th century by the English Puritans. 
The name Zebedee in the Bible. Zebedee is the husband of the only Biblical Salome and the father of James and John, who are also known as Boanerges. Zebedee meaning. The whole name Zebadiah and thus Zebedee means Yahweh Has Bestowed (NOBSE Study Bible Name List), Yah Hath Bestowed (BDB Theological Dictionary), or Gift Of The Lord (Alfred Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names).
Zebedee /ze-be-dee/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys. Zebedee's name origin is Hebrew, and the name Zebedee means gift of Jehovah. Zebedee is an alternate form of Zebediah (Hebrew). Compare surname Zubiate. Zebedee is an unusual first name for men. Zebedee is also an uncommon surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Zeb is the only prominent variation form of Zebedee (outside Top 1000) .
There's nothing in the Greek language that looks like the name Zebedee (or rather Zebedaios) and Zebedee is most probably a transliteration of the very popular Hebrew name Zebadiah, says Spiros Zodhiates (The Complete Wordstudy Dictionary), or rather, the truncated version Zabdi, says BDB Theological Dictionary. Zebedee meaning. The whole name Zebadiah and thus Zebedee means Yahweh Has Bestowed (NOBSE Study Bible Name List), Yah Hath Bestowed (BDB Theological Dictionary), or Gift Of The Lord (Alfred Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names).
Meaning of Zebedee. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Zebedee means-abundant portion.The name Zebedee originated as an Israeli name. The name Zebedee is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning-abundant portion. Origin-Israel. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!