Methyl cellulose (or methylcellulose) is a chemical compound derived from cellulose. It is a hydrophilic white powder in pure form and dissolves in cold (but not in hot) water, forming a clear viscous solution or gel. It is sold under a variety of trade names and is used as a thickener and emulsifier in various food and cosmetic products, and also as a treatment of constipation. Like cellulose, it is not digestible, not toxic, and not an allergen.
Soluble fiber products such as psyllium and methylcellulose not only help keep you regular, they lower your cholesterol, ease the after-meal rise in blood sugar diabetics experience, decrease the risk of colorectal and breast cancer, treat irritable bowel syndrome and help you lose weight. Both psyllium fiber and methylcellulose are derived from natural sources. Psyllium fiber is produced from the husks of the Plantago ovata or blond psyllium plant. When the husks or seeds are added to water, they absorb and trap the water and a gelatinous substance forms around them.
methylcellulose. a methyl ester of cellulose, used as a bulk laxative, as a suspending agent for drugs, and applied topically to the cornea during certain ophthalmic procedures to protect and lubricate the cornea. methylcellulose. a methyl ester of cellulose; used as a bulk laxative and applied topically to the cornea during certain ophthalmic procedures to protect and lubricate the cornea. Used also as an obstetrical lubricant and, in squeeze bottles, as a lubricant for rectal examinations in large animals.
Be the first to review this Drug. Methylcellulose is a bulk-forming laxative that increases the amount of water in your stools to help make them softer and easier to pass. Methylcellulose is used to treat constipation and to help maintain regular bowel movements. Methylcellulose may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow all directions on your medicine label and package. Tell each of your healthcare providers about all your medical conditions, allergies, and all medicines you use. You should not take methylcellulose if you are allergic to it.
When eaten, methyl cellulose is not absorbed by the intestines but passes through the digestive tract undisturbed. It attracts large amounts of water into the colon, producing a softer and bulkier stool. It is used to treat constipation, diverticulosis, hemorrhoids and irritable bowel syndrome. It is sold under a variety of trade names and is used as a thickener and emulsifier in various food and cosmetic products, and also as a treatment of constipation. Like cellulose, it is not digestible, not toxic, and not an allergen.
Uses. This medication is used to treat constipation. It increases the bulk in your stool, an effect that helps to cause movement of the intestines. It also works by increasing the amount of water in the stool, making the stool softer and easier to pass. Psyllium, one type of bulk-forming laxative, has also been used along with a proper diet to treat high cholesterol
Methyl cellulose does not occur naturally and is synthetically produced by heating cellulose with caustic solution (e.g. a solution of sodium hydroxide) and treating it with methyl chloride. It is sold under a variety of trade names and is used as a thickener and emulsifier in various food and cosmetic products, and also as a treatment of constipation. Like cellulose, it is not digestible, not toxic, and not an allergen.
description. Methylcellulose is a cellulosic gum that will form a clear viscous gel when hot (meaning it melts as it cools!). Cellulosic gums are a unique group of hydrocolloids made from plant-derived cellulose. This compound is the main component of cell walls, giving them their toughness (think: cotton, wood, etc.). 
Medical Definition of METHYLCELLULOSE. : any of various gummy products of cellulose methylation that swell in water and are used especially as emulsifiers, adhesives, thickeners, and bulk laxatives. Next Word in the Dictionary: methyl chloroform Previous Word in the Dictionary: methyl bromide All Words Near: methylcellulose.