Yellow fat disease is most commonly referred to as Steatitis or Pansteatitis in cats and it is caused from a diet that is way too high in unsaturated fatty acids, and as a result is causing a Vitamin E deficiency in your pet. Also known as Yellow Fat Disease or Pansteatitis, Steatitis is caused by feeding a diet high in unsaturated fatty acids and deficient in vitamin E. Oily fish, especially red tuna are the cause of this condition.
Steatitis is a painful condition resulting from a diet high in unsaturated fatty acids and deficient in Vitamin E. Tuna is the most comonly known cause of this problem. The term tuna junkie has been used to describe such cats. Feeding too much tuna can result in a condition known as Steatitis. Raw fish also contains the enzyme thiaminase which destroys thiamine (Vitamin B1), resulting in thiamine deficiency. Cooking destroys thiaminase, thus protecting thiamine.
General information on Yellow Fat Disease. Yellow Fat Disease or Pansteatits is caused by a deficiency in Vitamin E. Vitamin E deficiency is one of the most critical deficiency diseases in cats. Treatments for Yellow Fat Disease. Yellow Fat Disease can be difficult to diagnose. A history of your cat's eating habits is helpful. In addition, your vet may obtain a fat biopsy to confirm the diagnosis. Daily doses of Vitamin E help to reverse the disease
Steatitis or Yellow fat disease. Yellow fat disease in cats is a very painful condition that if not addressed immediately could result in the death of your cat. It will become so painful for your pet that you may not be able to touch them. Also known as Yellow Fat Disease or Pansteatitis, Steatitis is caused by feeding a diet high in unsaturated fatty acids and deficient in vitamin E. Oily fish, especially red tuna are the cause of this condition.
Yellow Fat Disease in Cats. Steatitis, also referred to as yellow fat disease, is a disorder characterized by marked inflammation of adipose (fat) tissue and the deposition of wax pigment in between layers of adipose tissue in cats. 
May 20, 2013 By Laurie Buckley. Steatitis, or yellow fat disease, is caused by a deficiency of vitamin E. Cats who are fed a diet containing excessive amounts of unsaturated fats end up with vitamin E being destroyed in their bodies. This results in a painful inflammation in the cats body fat. The fat will turn yellow and harden greatly. Treatment will involve correcting the cats diet by switching her to a well-balanced food and supplementing with vitamin E. To help prevent this disease from happening in the first place by never feeding your cat any tuna, even if it is commercial cat food.
Yellow fat disease is the result of a Vitamin E deficiency in your cat. Although there are alternative methods of treatment, the safest, quickest, and purest way is to stop feeding your cat pure tuna and simply build their levels of Vitamin E back as quickly as possible. Also known as Yellow Fat Disease or Pansteatitis, Steatitis is caused by feeding a diet high in unsaturated fatty acids and deficient in vitamin E. Oily fish, especially red tuna are the cause of this condition.