Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate. Common reasons for delay. According to A Matter of Fact, the most common reason for delay in completing background checks is when employers do not fill out background check request forms accurately and completely, and when they fail to get the authorization and release forms signed by the job applicant.
Most employers, particularly small-and medium-sized companies, outsource background checks to consumer reporting agencies. These agencies are generally very fast, but the time it takes the check to come back to the employer depends on a number of factors. Common reasons for delay. According to A Matter of Fact, the most common reason for delay in completing background checks is when employers do not fill out background check request forms accurately and completely, and when they fail to get the authorization and release forms signed by the job applicant.
Also, they close down for longer periods of time during holidays and are many-a-times not reachable. If a criminal background check process includes an FBI background check, then you may add 30 days to the whole process as well. As all details are gathered from a variety of sources and synchronized at one place in the end, one must remain prepared for the number of days it may take. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days.
As background checks differ from company-to-company, the time frame may differ at all points in time. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days. This is because educational institutions, courts and government agencies usually take enough time to get back with required details
A: Cost varies according to depth and quality of the check. Basic background checks typically cost from $50 to $150 (based on the number of searches requested). More careful, comprehensive background checks can cost from $200 to $500. 
Patience when doing employment background checks can significantly reduce the risk of a bad hire! The idea of an instant background check sounds great. However, a quality background takes some effort and time. It takes time to identify, locate, and contact the correct court, employer, school, or licensing agency. For more information, see Proper Employment Background Checks: Patience Now Means Accuracy and Completeness Later. In addition, databases used in instant background checks are notoriously incomplete and out of date. The most common reason for delay is carelessness in filling out the Employee Background Check Request Form, the Applicant Authorization and Release Form, and the Job Application. Also, remember that information for a background check is gathered from multiple sources.
Online Services. How long background checks take depends on the type of information you need. Some information can be delivered instantly, while other checks can take up to four days to process. Below is a list of the different places you can gather background check information and how long each takes. Since a national criminal database isn't available to the public, most national background checks scan each state's online databases. The 46 states that use online databases will return records in a few minutes, but the four states without online databases can take 2-4 business days. While most US background checks take at most four days to run, employers can take 1-2 weeks to review your background records. You can learn more about employer background checks here
A common question is How long does a background check take?. In most cases employment background check reports are complete in one to three business days from the time we receive the order. The most common reason for delay is carelessness in filling out the Employee Background Check Request Form, the Applicant Authorization and Release Form, and the Job Application. Also, remember that information for a background check is gathered from multiple sources.