It also alters a patch of pre-existing sperm plasma membrane so that it can fuse with the egg plasma membrane. A sperm penetration assay includes an acrosome reaction test that assesses how well a sperm is able to perform during the fertilization process. Part of the sperm's cell membrane then fuses with the egg cell's membrane, and the contents of the head sink into the egg. In the mouse it has been demonstrated that ZP3, one of the proteins that make up the zona pellucida, binds to a partner molecule (to the β1,4-galactosyl transferase receptors) on the sperm.
During fertilization, a sperm must first fuse with the plasma membrane and then penetrate the female egg in order to fertilize it. Fusing to the egg usually causes little problem, whereas penetrating through the egg's hard shell can present more of a problem to the sperm. Part of the sperm's cell membrane then fuses with the egg cell's membrane, and the contents of the head sink into the egg. In the mouse it has been demonstrated that ZP3, one of the proteins that make up the zona pellucida, binds to a partner molecule (to the β1,4-galactosyl transferase receptors) on
Medical Definition of FERTILIZATION MEMBRANE. : a resistant membranous layer in eggs of many animals that forms following fertilization by the thickening and separation of the vitelline membrane from the cell surface and that prevents multiple fertilization. ADVERTISEMENT.
Acrosome reaction 86K. Early fertilization 118K. An important event at fertilization is the fusion (67K) of the cortical granules with the plasma membrane. This is what raises the fertilization membrane from the surface of the egg, helping to prevent further sperm entry. 
Noun. 1. fertilization membrane-the membrane that forms around a fertilized ovum and prevents penetration by additional spermatozoon. tissue layer, membrane-a pliable sheet of tissue that covers or lines or connects the organs or cells of animals or plants. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
fertilization membrane. noun. : a resistant membranous layer in eggs of many animals that forms following fertilization by the thickening and separation of the vitelline membrane from the cell surface and that prevents multiple fertilization. ADVERTISEMENT.
As the sperm approaches the zona pellucida of the egg, which is necessary for initiating the acrosome reaction, the membrane surrounding the acrosome fuses with the plasma membrane of the oocyte, exposing the contents of the acrosome. Part of the sperm's cell membrane then fuses with the egg cell's membrane, and the contents of the head sink into the egg. In the mouse it has been demonstrated that ZP3, one of the proteins that make up the zona pellucida, binds to a partner molecule (to the β1,4-galactosyl transferase receptors) on the sperm.
Human fertilization is the union of a human egg and sperm, usually occurring in the ampulla of the uterine tube. The result of this union is the production of a zygote cell, or fertilized egg, initiating prenatal development. Scientists discovered the dynamics of human fertilization in the nineteenth century. The sperm bind through the corona radiata, a layer of follicle cells on the outside of the secondary oocyte. Fertilization occurs when the nucleus of both a sperm and an egg fuse to form a diploid cell, known as zygote. The successful fusion of gametes forms a new organism.
Two mechanisms can operate to ensure that only one sperm fertilizes the egg. In many cases, a rapid depolarization of the egg plasma membrane, which is caused by the fusion of the first sperm, prevents further sperm from fusing and thereby acts as a fast primary block to polyspermy. The acrosome reaction that occurs when a mammalian sperm fertilizes an egg. In mice, a single glycoprotein in the zona pellucida, ZP3, is thought to be responsible for both binding the sperm and inducing the acrosome reaction. Note that a mammalian sperm (more...). The acrosome reaction is required for fertilization.
Fertilization membrane. Definition. noun. The membrane that forms on the inner surface of the vitelline membrane of the ovum after the entry of a spermatozoon, thereby acting as a barrier to prevent additional penetration of other spermatozoa.