For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Professor-Mathematics in the United States is $91,640 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Professor-Mathematics in the United States are expected to make less than $91,640. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $91,640. 1  Salary. The annual salary for someone with the job title Professor-Mathematics may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
The discrepancy between average salaries and UW-Stevens Point salaries is significant. More than 45 percent of faculty are paid at least $10,000 a year below the national average. Approximately 12 percent are paid more than $20,000 a year less than the national average. 
University of Washington Professor Salary. University of Washington Professor average salary is $189,156, median salary is $134,100 with a salary range from $50,112 to $475,004. University of Washington Professor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
Professor Salary. Professor average salary is $110,375, median salary is $97,555 with a salary range from $20,111 to $1,337,149. Professor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Professor salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference onl
Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-Music Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-Music, College Professor-Music, University Professor-Music Categories: Education Professor-Architecture Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of architecture. Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-Mathematics Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-Mathematics, College Professor-Mathematics, University Professor-Mathematics Categories: Education Professor-Music Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of music.
Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-Nursing Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-Nursing, College Professor-Nursing, University Professor-Nursing Categories: Education Professor-Rehabilitation Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of rehabilitation and therapy. Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-Mathematics Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-Mathematics, College Professor-Mathematics, University Professor-Mathematics Categories: Education Professor-Music Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of music.
Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-English Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-English, College Professor-English, University Professor-English Categories: Education Professor-History Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of history. Typically reports to a department head. View Professor-Mathematics Salaries Alternate Job Titles: Professor-Mathematics, College Professor-Mathematics, University Professor-Mathematics Categories: Education Professor-Music Salaries Conducts college-level courses in the field of music.
The American Association of University Professors (AAUP) recently released its report on faculty salaries for 2012-2013. Salaries for full-time faculty members rose by an average of 1.7 percent in 2012-2013, which offsets inflation (estimated at 1.7 percent in 2012-13).