Wildfires. Landslides and Mudslides Landslides occur when masses of rock, earth or debris move down a slope. Mudslides, also known as debris flows or mudflows, are a common type of fast-moving landslide that tends to flow in channels. Landslides are caused by disturbances in the natural stability of a slope. They can happen after heavy rains, droughts, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions. Mudslides develop when water rapidly collects in the ground and results in a surge of water-soaked rock, earth and debris.
Factors that make an area prone to landsliding include the following characteristics: Because landslides take a variety of forms and occur in a variety of setting, the key to predicting when they might occur or how they form and may evolve throught time. In many cases, heavy rains set off landslides. However, in many cases landslides may also occur in unpredictable was, such as the timing of a rockfall after a spring thaw. Sometime deep-seated slumps or mudflows will not move until days or weeks have passed after a storm.
Slope saturation by water is a primary cause of landslides. This effect can occur in the form of intense rainfall, snowmelt, changes in ground-water levels, and water-level changes along coastlines, earth dams, and the banks of lakes, reservoirs, canals, and rivers. Landslides in the United States occur in all 50 States. The primary regions of landslide occurrence and potential are the coastal and mountainous areas of California, Oregon, and Washington, the States comprising the intermountain west, and the mountainous and hilly regions of the Eastern United States.
A sub-category of landslides, mudslides are rivers of rock, earth and other debris that are saturated with water, according to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). Mudslides can be slow-or fast-moving, though they tend to grow in size and momentum as they pick up trees, boulders, cars and other materials. 
Landslides have always existed on our planet. Generally classified as mass movements of rock, debris, and soil down a slope of land. While landslides are a naturally occurring environmental hazard they have recently increased in frequency in certain areas due to human activity. Earthquakes: Seismic activities have always been a main cause of landslides throughout the world. Any time plate tectonics move the soil that covers them moves with it. When earthquakes occur on areas with steep slopes, many times the soil slips causing landslides.
The study of existing landslides in a region will provide a sense of what bedrock and landscape conditions will make an area susceptible to landsliding, and historical accounts of past landslide activity may provide insight into when landslides are more likely to occur. In many cases, heavy rains set off landslides. However, in many cases landslides may also occur in unpredictable was, such as the timing of a rockfall after a spring thaw. Sometime deep-seated slumps or mudflows will not move until days or weeks have passed after a storm.
A landslide, also known as a landslip, is a geological phenomenon that includes a wide range of ground movements. Rockfalls, deep failure of slopes and shallow debris flows were common. Landslides can occur in offshore, coastal and onshore environments. Although the action of gravity is the primary driving force for a landslide to occur, there are other contributing factors affecting the original slope stability.
Information adapted from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Landslides occur when masses of rock, earth or debris move down a slope. Mudslides, also known as debris flows or mudflows, are a common type of fast-moving landslide that tends to flow in channels. Landslides are caused by disturbances in the natural stability of a slope. They can happen after heavy rains, droughts, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions. Mudslides develop when water rapidly collects in the ground and results in a surge of water-soaked rock, earth and debris.
They can occur on any terrain given the right conditions of soil, moisture, and the angle of slope. Integral to the natural process of the earth's surface geology, landslides serve to redistribute soil and sediments in a process that can be in abrupt collapses or in slow gradual slides. 