In 2005, the national average cost of a BOTOX® injection was just over $375. However, the cost of BOTOX® treatment varies from area to area. In 2005, the northeastern United States had the highest BOTOX® average cost, at just over $500, while the western states had the lowest average, at under $370. Most practices have a flat cost for each injection of BOTOX® Cosmetic, though some will break it down by “units” used per treatment. Flat rates are usually somewhere between $300 and $1000, while per-unit rates are usually around $10-15 per unit.
BOTOX® and Blepharospasm (Eye Spasm) Treatment. BOTOX® is also administered for strabismus (crossed eyes) and blepharospasm treatment. Blepharospasm is a term describing any abnormal, involuntary muscle contraction of the muscles controlling the eyelids. Some insurance companies will cover the use of BOTOX® for the treatment of muscle spasms. Unfortunately, nearly half of all patients seeking treatment do so without assistance from their insurers. DocShop provides additional information on the cost of BOTOX® treatments.
A. A. A. Many people know botulinum toxin for its power to treat wrinkles. (Think Botox .) But the medication also helps those with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have spasticity -- stiff muscles and sudden, uncontrollable movements -- in their arms. The drug is one option you and your doctor can consider as part of your MS treatment.
Botox Cosmetic has been available by prescription in the United States since the FDA approved it in 2002. The exact same Botox injected for medical purposes (e.g., uncontrolled muscle spasms) was first approved by the FDA in 1989. Any injection can hurt, but the needles used for Botox injections are very small, so pain is usually minimal. The area can be numbed with a topical anesthetic cream or cold pack 10-20 minutes before the injections are given, so you may not feel much pain, if any.
BOTOX® Injection Cost Breakdown. Most practices have a flat cost for each injection of BOTOX® Cosmetic, though some will break it down by “units” used per treatment. Flat rates are usually somewhere between $300 and $1000, while per-unit rates are usually around $10-15 per unit.
Frequent involuntary contractions of the facial muscles characterize a disorder known as hemifacial spasm. This disorder typically affects the muscles on one side of the face. BOTOX® injections for these types of muscle spasms are, on average, 95 percent successful in providing relief. Some insurance companies will cover the use of BOTOX® for the treatment of muscle spasms. Unfortunately, nearly half of all patients seeking treatment do so without assistance from their insurers. DocShop provides additional information on the cost of BOTOX® treatments.
BOTOX® injections were intended for the treatment of various types of dystonia (muscle spasms) before BOTOX® Cosmetic received FDA approval in 2002 for cosmetic treatment of frown lines and wrinkles. Some insurance companies will cover the use of BOTOX® for the treatment of muscle spasms. Unfortunately, nearly half of all patients seeking treatment do so without assistance from their insurers. DocShop provides additional information on the cost of BOTOX® treatments.
The average BOTOX® treatment price ranges from $350 to $500 for each area injected. BOTOX® injection cost can vary greatly according to geographic region and depending on the doctor who performs the procedure. For those on a budget, convenient BOTOX® financing plans can make treatment easily affordable. Most practices have a flat cost for each injection of BOTOX® Cosmetic, though some will break it down by “units” used per treatment. Flat rates are usually somewhere between $300 and $1000, while per-unit rates are usually around $10-15 per unit.
Botox (or Botulinum toxin) injection involves using small injected amounts of a synthesized version of a naturally occurring paralytic toxin for medical treatment, including treatment of certain painful disorders. Correctly injected botox may relieve painful muscle spasms, in a manner akin to trigger point injections. Note: trigger point injections last weeks while muscle relaxation due to botox injections last three to four months. One painful condition involving spasmodic muscles is called cervical dystonia.
Furthermore, Botox injections that have been administered for low back pain have demonstrated the ability to reduce muscle tension and pain. Botox injections entail administering onaboutlinumtoxin A, also known as the botulinum toxin, to specific muscles. A microorganism produces the toxin that is used for the injections and this toxin has been known to cause a certain type of food poisoning called botulism. 