A BBB Accredited Business since. BBB has determined that iYogi, Inc. meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public. 
iYogi is a remote technical support firm based in Gurgaon, India with customers in the United States, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates, Australia, Canada, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and India. In 2010, iYogi raised US$30 million in Series D round of funding led by Sequoia Capital with follow-on investment from existing investors. Earlier in the same year, the company had secured investment of $15 million from Draper Fisher Jurvetson and others.
iYogi is the lowest-cost service I've tested, and it delivers support 24/7/365. But to get what your PC needs, you have to know the right questions to ask and be willing to ask them. By Michael Muchmore Because it's based in India, the online PC support service iYogi gains a big advantage over competitors: cheap labor. In a quick, automated voice session, you enter the account number iYogi assigned when you signed up, then wait for a first-line rep, which for me took 9 minutes not too bad. The person who answered asked what my OS was and set me up with Bomgar Support Customer Client software.
Increased security for consumers, iYogi offers services, such as Green PC and Support Dock. Green PC mode switches off the PC components when you are not using them. Nearly half of your PC power is used by your monitor and turning it off when you are downloading something or burning a DVD can save you a lot of power. iYogi has a Global Delivery Platform, called iMantra. It helps to resolve every kind of technical problem, and keeps a note of each customer's demographic information and stores it in a log.
iYogi Reviews. 'iYogi Customer Reviews' is a forum which helps iYogi to receive feedback from its customer base and helps the firm deliver better service each time. iYogi does its level best to make contact with its customers based on the reviews it receives. IYogi is a great service! I have used them for my computer service and maintenance They are very professional and help you right on your computer via remote connection. I became acquainted with them through my antivirus program, Avast, which is also a great program and service. I recommend both highly..
—Ramona Marlow. IYogi is a great service! I have used them for my computer service and maintenance They are very professional and help you right on your computer via remote connection. I became acquainted with them through my antivirus program, Avast, which is also a great program and service. I recommend both highly..
Think of any software and iYogi provides services for it. I may not have been saying this if I had not subscribed for the iYogi technical services six months ago. There I was, doing my college project and suddenly my laptop erupts, I went mad with terror as there was a really important project in my laptop. iYogi has a Global Delivery Platform, called iMantra. It helps to resolve every kind of technical problem, and keeps a note of each customer's demographic information and stores it in a log.