1 If you apply the cream to these areas and experience irritation, wash the cream off gently and consult a doctor. 2  Don't apply the cream to moles, scars, spotty, irritated or sun burnt skin. 3  Avoid contact with skin that has been shaved in the last 72 hours. 4  Avoid contact with broken or inflamed skin.
Veet, formerly called Neet and Immac, is a current trademark of chemical depilatory internationally sold products manufactured by Reckitt Benckiser. Hair removal creams, mousses and gels, and waxes are produced under this brand. It has previously created similar products under the names Neet and Immac.
Veet is a brand of hair removal products and can either refer to cream or wax applications. Veet hair removal cream has an active ingredient that dissolves the hair shaft, making it easier to remove.
Best Answer: Shaving works well if you use a Gillette Venus Vibrance razor. Veet is better than Nair. Nair can burn your skin, and many women say Nair stinks.
Veet, formerly called Neet and Immac, is a current trademark of chemical depilatory internationally sold products manufactured by Reckitt Benckiser. Hair removal creams, mousses and gels, and waxes are produced under this brand.
Home Welcome to the website of the Victorian Energy Efficiency Target (VEET) scheme. The VEET scheme is a Victorian Government initiative promoted as the Energy Saver Incentive. It commenced on 1 January 2009 and is administered by the Essential Services Commission (ESC).
Veet was advertised in the 1920s (then known as Neet) as a product that was faster than shaving, was called the ready to use hair removing cream, and was initially sold for about fifty cents in the US. Immac was a deodorant produced by the same company.
Veet wax strips work even on short hair and, with regular use, you'll get fewer finer and softer hairs growing back.
Veet's hair removal products contain thioglycolic acid and potassium hydroxide. These ingredients react to generate the depilatory chemical potassium thioglycolate, which according to the company, increases hair loss.