Normal Dog Respiratory Rate. The average respiratory rate for canines is 24 breaths per minute, but typically a dog's respiratory rate will be between 10 and 30 breaths per minute. This number may be affected by a few factors such as: 1 The age of the dog, as puppies may have a faster respiratory rate (between 15 and 35 breaths per minute, during the first few weeks of life). 2  The breed, as some dogs may have a different anatomy of the nose that will make them breathe faster or slower.
Evaluating a Respiratory Rate. Once you have that number, you need to determine whether it's normal. The average in dogs is 24 breaths for minute, according to Vetinfo. However, the rate can vary depending on several factors. Typically, a normal respiratory rate can be anywhere between 10 and 30 per minute. 
Thanks for answering my questions. The 'normal' respiratory rate for a dog is 10-34 breaths per minute...HOWEVER, large breed dogs can be slower and smaller breed dogs can be faster. Add to it the fact that some medications, pain or even just mild discomfort can cause that rate to raise
The dog respiratory rate may be influenced by a number of factors, but the average respiratory rate of the pet is considered to be 24 breaths every minute. Knowing your dog's normal range of breaths per minute is important, so that you can detect if he is ill. 1 The age of the dog, as puppies may have a faster respiratory rate (between 15 and 35 breaths per minute, during the first few weeks of life). 2  The breed, as some dogs may have a different anatomy of the nose that will make them breathe faster or slower.
The normal respiratory rate for a dog ranges from 15 to 30 breaths per minute. It's easy to count your dog's breathing rate. With a clock or watch with a second hand, count the number of breaths for one minute. 
Dogs at rest have a normal respiration rate of 10 to 35 breaths per minute. The average dog at rest takes 24 breaths per minute. To check your dog’s respiration rate, count his chest movements for 15 seconds and multiply by four to get the total number of breaths per minute. Thinkstock. Dogs at rest have a normal respiration rate of 10 to 35 breaths per minute. Practice checking your dog’s respiration rate at home, when you and your dog are both relaxed, so you’ll recognize quickly when something is wrong. I always tell folks to watch and listen to their pets every day.