Hello! I am thinking about getting in to raising chickens for meat. I am wondering about how long it takes a chicken to grow to good eating size. I live in Alaska and I am hoping that I can raise them through the summer and not have to deal with the difficulties of trying to over winter a flock. Thanks!
The meat birds can be kept longer and sold as roasters when they are 3-5 months old. Another option is to raise capons (castrated males) that can be marketed as light roasters at 3 months of age, or as ten-pound roasters at 6-7 months of age.
We raise laying hens year-round, and once a year we raise a batch of meat chickens, specifically designed to provide us with chicken meat for the year. It takes about 8-12 weeks to raise a meat chicken to maturity, while it takes about 6 months to raise a laying chicken to maturity (when they start laying eggs).
How to Raise a Broiler. By now, most folks have heard of “Pastured Poultry.” This phrase, popularized by Joel Salatin and others, means that the birds were actually raised with their feet on the grass from the time they were old enough to stand the elements (about 2-3 weeks old) until harvest.
You will need a coop for your chickens, just like for your laying hens. Coops for meat birds are often larger so that you can raise 50, 100, or more birds at a time. Many people raise meat birds just during the summer season, so they can often be more temporary shelters like hoop houses or tarps. You will need to make sure your birds have protection from rain and wind.
This year I am going back to the Cornish X for my meat chickens. I can expect to have birds dressing out to around 5 or 6 pounds each at about 8 weeks of age. This will allow me to grow out 25 or so chickens and have them in the freezer before the weather heats up too much for the young birds.
Often, the most economical way to raise meat birds is to use the special meat breeds, known as Meat Kings or White Cornish Crosses. These breeds are commonly used for meat production because they gain weight faster than other breeds; they are often marketed as broilers at 8-10 weeks of age.