The average amount of time it takes to receive a decision after filing for SSD benefits, also referred to as SSDI (Social Security Disability Insurance) benefits is about 120 days, or approximately three months.
Dear Edith, It can take another month or more after the decision to get the letter. How long it takes to get benefits after that depends on whether you have applied for Social Security Disability (SSDI), Supplemental Security Income (SSI) or both. It can be a month to three months after you receive the judge’s letter.
Your reconsideration appeal takes about sixty days to receive a decision. If the reconsideration appeal is denied, you must appeal your denial by filing a request for an administrative law judge disability hearing. For most disability applicants, this level of the disability process is the longest and most frustrating.
The question of how long it takes to get a decision on a Social Security Disability or SSI benefit claim is not easy to answer, for several reasons. Social Security Disability and SSI cases can be won in as little as 30 days, or take as long as two years for benefits to be awarded.
It is hard to predict exactly how long it will take the Social Security Administration (SSA) to decide your disability case. This is, in part, because there is no deadline the SSA is required to follow. Decision times also depend on the following factors: 1  whether you are at the initial application stage or have appealed.
On average, though, a decision for an initial disability claim takes three to four months, and a reconsideration (the first level of appeal) takes about as long, though a case could be decided much sooner or much later.
The Social Security Administration will tell you that it takes an average of 120 days to make a decision on your Social Security and/or Supplemental Security Income disability claim. However, this is not the whole story.
In July of 2007 the claims backlog for SSDI and SSI cases was at its highest mark ever reaching 749,224 cases. The information below should help give you an idea of how long it takes to get a decision at the hearing level. The national average in 7/07 was 528 days.