Rotation describes the action of moving the head from side to side, lateral motion brings the ear to the shoulder, flexion moves the chin to the chest (as in looking down), and hyperextension moves the neck so that the head tilts upward. The muscles of the neck run from the base of the skull to the upper back and work together to bend the head and assist in breathing.
The most common causes of neck pain are strain or tension in the muscles of neck. Most neck pain can be relieved by applying heat or ice, reducing physical activity, stretching the aching area through slow range-of-motion exercises, massage, or by taking over-the-counter pain relievers. Back to Neck. The muscles of the neck run from the base of the skull to the upper back and work together to bend the head and assist in breathing.
Neck muscles are bodies of tissue that produce motion in the neck when stimulated. The muscles of the neck run from the base of the skull to the upper back and work together to bend the head and assist in breathing. The motion of the muscles of the neck are divided into four categories: rotation, lateral flexion, flexion, and hyperextension
Muscular movements of the head (at the cervical spine/neck) and of the torso (thoracic and lumbar spine/upper, middle, and lower back): flexion, extension, lateral flexion, rotation. 
Muscles of the neck. NECK MUSCLES: The motion of the neck can be divided into rotation (looking side to side), lateral flexion (ear to shoulder), flexion (chin to sternum) and hyperextension (looking up). Knowing which muscles do each motion will take you a long way towards proper evaluation and treatment. Another common neck problem is limited rotation, which involves the levator scapula, the suboccipitals, or the deep neck muscles. ASSESSMENT: Neck evaluation includes passive range of motion in the various directions, looking for restriction and pain.
A strain to a neck muscle can include any of a number of either deep or superficial muscles located around the neck. The muscles of the neck are responsible for the following movements including flexion (chin to chest), extension (eyes to ceiling), rotation, and lateral flexion (ear to shoulder). A neck strain is a painful and debilitating injury because the pain and associated muscle spasm can inhibit any and all movements of the head/neck. For an athlete who needs to have full movement of his/her head, a neck strain can sideline an athlete until the injury has healed.
When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, flexion refers to movement in the anterior direction. Flexion of the shoulder or hip refers to movement of the arm or leg forward. Extension is the opposite of flexion, describing a straightening movement that increases the angle between body parts. When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, extension refers to movement in the posterior direction. For example, when standing up, the knees are extended.
It is usually caused by a flexion-extension motion of the neck that pulls and strains the neck muscles and ligaments. 1  Whiplash happens in motor vehicle accidents, sporting activities, accidental falls, and assault. Whiplash is a nonmedical term used to describe neck pain following an injury to the soft tissues of the neck (specifically ligaments, tendons, and muscles). It is caused by an abnormal motion or force applied to the neck that causes movement beyond the neck's normal range of motion