How many different gases are in the air? There are a lot of gases in the air around us, but most of the air is made up of just three gasesnitrogen, oxygen, and argon. There are smaller amounts of carbon dioxide and water vapor. And there are about ten more gases in amounts so tiny that people seldom talk about them. Of course, the list doesn't stop, either. Anything that you can smelllike roses or cheese or onionsmust have some chemical that is carried as a gas in the air.
Earth's Greenhouse Gases. Even though only a tiny amount of the gases in Earth s atmosphere are greenhouse gases, they have a huge effect on climate. There are several different types of greenhouse gases. The major ones are carbon dioxide, water vapor, methane, and nitrous oxide. All of these have molecules with three or more atoms. The atoms are held together loosely enough that they vibrate when they absorb heat
A gas is a form of matter that does not have a defined shape or volume. 1  air. 2  helium. 3  nitrogen. 4  freon. 5  carbon dioxide. 6  water vapor. 7  hydrogen. 8  natural gas. 9  propane. Naming examples of solids, liquids, and gases is a common homework assignment because it makes you think about phase changes and the states of matter.
A gas is a form of matter that does not have a defined shape or volume. Gases can consists of a single element, such as hydrogen gas (H 2), or may be a compound, such as carbon dioxide (CO 2), or a mixture of several gases, such as air. Here is a list of examples of 10 gases and their uses. 1  oxygen (O 2) : medical use, welding. 2  nitrogen (N 2): fire suppression, provide inert atmospher
Note that the different types of gas – economy or regular 87 octane, or 89 to 93 octane rating – do not include diesel fuel or bio-diesel fuel. Using those types of fuels in a car designed to run on gasoline will wreck the engine. 
Some different types of gases are argon, carbon dioxide, hydrogen,  helium, oxygen, nitrogen, nitrous oxide, propane and propylene.  Carbon dioxide is used for fermentation, … and oxygen and nitrogen  are what makes up the Earth's atmosphere. 1 person found this useful. Lilly Collier. 13 Contributions. Oxygen, hydrogen, helium, neon and xenon are some types of gases. There are many types of gases being; hydrogen, oxygen, anaesthetic gas, natural gas,helium,neon and carbon di … oxide.
Some different types of gases are argon, carbon dioxide, hydrogen,  helium, oxygen, nitrogen, nitrous oxide, propane and propylene.  Carbon dioxide is used for fermentation, … and oxygen and nitrogen  are what makes up the Earth's atmosphere. 1 person found this useful. Jan C. Atmosphere contains roughly (by volume) 78.09% nitrogen, 20.95%oxygen, 0.93% argon, 0.039% carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases.
3 4 1 2 1. There are different types of gases that are categorised as bulk gases, and these are: Argon, Carbon Dioxide, Hydrogen, Helium, Oxygen, Nitrogen, Nitrous Oxide, Propane and Propylene. Bulk Carbon Dioxide. 