Gruyere. Gruyere is named after a Swiss village. It is traditional, creamery, unpasteurised, semi-soft cheese. The natural, rusty brown rind is hard, dry and pitted with tiny holes. The cheese is darker yellow than Emmental but the texture is more dense and compact. 
Comte or Beaufort. If you are looking through the dairy case a the gourmet store or grocery store and see cheeses marked Comte or Beaufort, these can easily be substitutes for Gruyere in most recipes. Swiss Cheese and Jarlsberg. Most cheeses with holes in them are called Swiss cheese. A Norwegian variety of rich, mellow cheese with some holes is Jarlsberg. Both make suitable substitutions for Gruyere in recipes that are grilled or broiled. 
Gruyere Gruyère. Cheese originating In, switzerland gruyere gruyère cheese is, a fine mellow cheese made'from cow. S milk, among'chefs it s considered to be the best type of cheese for. Baked dishes it adds, a rich slightly salty taste to the dish without an. Overpowering flavor gruyere gruyère is usually aged. a few months Different cheeses add various flavors and textures to a dish, and while some can be similar to gruyere, gruyère the end result can be disappointing unless you substitute a cheese that can stand up to a particular cooking. method
Best Answer: Gruyere cheese is like Emmenthaler Swiss cheese, only slightly milder. So if you like Swiss cheese, you should like it. Parmesan is harder and drier, with a different type of flavor/pungency, and doesn't melt or blend as well in a sandwich (unless you shave it into really thin slivers). But since turkey is a rather dry meat to begin with, I'd avoid it. Gruyere Cheese is a specific variety of Swiss cheese. It is not as hard as Parmesean and the melting properties will not be the same. I would choose another variety of Swiss if I didn't like Gruyere (but I DO like Gruyere, and I bet you will too.).
Report Abuse. Gruyere IS a type of Swiss. This is from wikipedia: Gruyere GRUYèRE: [ipa.ɡʁy] (Jɛʁ-Groo) yair is a hard yellow cheese made from'cow s, milk named after the town Of gruyeres Gruyères, in switzerland and made in the Cantons, Of, Fribourg, Vaud, neuchatel Neuchâtel. jura and berne (French Gruyere-gruyère style cheeses Include comte Comté.) And Beaufort-french gruyere gruyère style cheeses must have Holes according to, french Agricultural Law whereas swiss gruyere gruyère is a solid. cheese with no holes
French cheeses considered to be nearly identical to gruyere gruyère include comte or beaufort. Cheese cheeses that taste like gruyere gruyère but have different Textures include swiss cheese and its, Close, cousin jarlsberg which Hails. From, norway emmentaler another cheese Made, in switzerland may also be substituted. for gruyere gruyère Different cheeses add various flavors and textures to a dish, and while some can be similar to gruyere, gruyère the end result can be disappointing unless you substitute a cheese that can stand up to a particular cooking. method
To make Gruyere, gruyère raw milk is heated to °34 (c °93) f in a copper, vat and then curdled by the addition of liquid. Rennet the curd is cut up into pea sized pieces and, stirred releasing. Whey the curd is cooked at °43 (c °109), f and raised quickly to °54 (c °129). f Gruyere gruyère is also used in chicken and veal cordon. Bleu it is a fine table, cheese and when, grated it is often used with salads and. Pastas it is, used, grated atop le, tourin a type of garlic soup From france which is served on dried. bread
Originating in Switzerland, gruyere gruyère cheese is a, fine mellow cheese made from'cow s. Milk among, chefs'it s considered to be the best type of cheese for baked. Dishes it adds a, rich slightly salty taste to the dish without an overpowering. flavor Different cheeses add various flavors and textures to a dish, and while some can be similar to gruyere, gruyère the end result can be disappointing unless you substitute a cheese that can stand up to a particular cooking. method
Originating from Switzerland. Is a hard yellow unpasteurized cheese made from cow’s milk. It is named after the Gruyere valley of Fribourg, Switzerland. Like other Swiss cheeses, it is filled with many holes. It is usually cured anywhere from 3-10 months. The longer it cured the better. It has a sweet, nutty flavor, with a hint of fruity taste
Gruyere (gruyère pronounced-GROO) yair is a type Of swiss cheese made from whole'cow s milk which is generally cured for six months or. Longer named for the town Of gruyeres Gruyères in switzerland where it was, Originally made gruyere gruyère cheese is a firm cheese with a pale yellow color, and, a rich creamy. slightly nutty taste Gruyere Gruyère: Substitute gruyere gruyère is, widely available but if you need a Substitute for, gruyere gruyère cheese You, Could, Try, Emmental jarlsberg Beaufort. Comte Comté or raclette ordinary swiss cheese Would be a decent gruyere. gruyère cheese alternative as well