Overlooking the tranquil and pristine waters of the Bogue Lagoon, the Montego Bay Free Zone (MBFZ) currently has over 600,000 sq. ft. (55,762 sq. m.) of space divided in a ratio of 56% and 44%, ICT activities and warehousing/manufacturing, respectively. The Montego Bay free Zone offers and all inclusive environment for investors and their staff, which includes efficient maintenance services. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 3  Home. 4  Company. 5  History.
The address and contact number of Acs Montego Bay is also used for Acs Montego Bay address Freeport, Acs Montego Bay Saint James, Acs Montego Bay Marine National Park, Acs Xerox Company Montego Bay, Acs Montego Bay website and Affiliated Computer Services Montego Bay address. The contact information like email address, telephone number, website and postal cum official address of Acs Montego Bay is mentioned in below section. The contact number of Acs Montego Bay is 0120-4524300. The Website of Acs Montego Bay is www.acs-inc.com.
Some companies like to say every day is different; in our Montego Bay center, we say every hour is different. One moment, you’re assisting with a new product promotion; the next, you’re suggesting a new product or service that can take a customer’s business to a new level of success. 
Description. XEROX Digital Docucentre is located in Montego Bay, Jamaica. Company is working in General office services, Office supplies business activities. 
Montego Bay is the capital of the parish of St. James and the second largest city in Jamaica by area and the fourth by population (after Kingston, Spanish Town and Portmore). The city stretches from Rose Hall at the eastern section to great river heading west which is located In Hanover. Montego Bay Is the home of the Caribbean largest airport Sangster International and as such is the gateway to most of the Island's tourist visitors. Montego Bay is a tourist destination with duty-free shopping, a cruise line terminal and several beaches. The Montego Bay Convention Centre, built on a large site near to the Rose Hall estate, was opened by Jamaican Prime Minister Bruce Golding on 7 January 2011.
Xerox is the world's leading enterprise for business process and document management. Its services, technology, and expertise enable workplaces-from small businesses to large global enterprises-to simplify the way work gets done so they operate more effectively and focus more on what matters most: their real business. 
ACS Montego Bay is the branch of Affiliated Computer Services Inc in Jamaica. Affiliated Computer Services Inc is a worldwide business process outsourcing and IT company. ACS is the part of the Xerox Corporation. Xerox Corporation is an American multinational IT services and consulting services company. ACS was founded in 1988 by Darwin Deason who is the presently chairmen of the company. Head office of the company is located in Dallas, Texas, USA. The contact information like email address, telephone number, website and postal cum official address of Acs Montego Bay is mentioned in below section. The contact number of Acs Montego Bay is 0120-4524300. The Website of Acs Montego Bay is www.acs-inc.com.
added a new photo — at ACS A Xerox Company Freeport Montego Bay. 
History. SHARE. In 1985 The Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ), expanded its Free Zone development to Montego Bay where it established the Montego Bay Free Zone (MBFZ) in the Montego Freeport area. 