Cranial nerves and spinal nerves extend from the CNS to peripheral organs such as muscles and glands. Ganglia are collections, or small knots, of nerve cell bodies outside the CNS. The peripheral nervous system is further subdivided into an afferent (sensory) division and an efferent (motor) division. 
A motor neuron (or motoneuron) is a nerve cell (neuron) whose cell body is located in the spinal cord and whose fiber (axon) projects outside the spinal cord to directly or indirectly control effector organs, mainly muscles and glands. Motor neurons' axons are efferent nerve fibers that carry signals from the spinal cord to the effectors to produce effects.
They carry nerve impulses from your sensory organs, like your eyes, to your brain, or your central nervous system (CNS). When your eyes see something shiny on the ground, your … afferent nerves tell your brain what your eyes see. In contrast, efferent nerves carry nerve impulses from your brain to parts of your body. 
It is a long process (projection) extending far from the nerve cell body that carries nerve impulses away from the central nervous system toward the peripheral effector organs (mainly muscles and glands). The opposite direction of neural activity is afferent conduction. In the nervous system there is a closed loop system of sensation, decision, and reactions. This process is carried out through the activity of afferent neurons (sensory neurons), interneurons, and efferent neurons (motor neurons). The motor nerves are efferent nerves involved in muscular control. The cell body of the efferent neuron is connected to a single, long axon and several shorter dendrites projecting out of the cell body itself
1 Efferent neurons (also called motor neurons) carry signals from the gray matter of the CNS through the nerves of the peripheral nervous system to effector cells. 2  The effector may be smooth, cardiac, or skeletal muscle tissue or glandular tissue. 1 Afferent, Efferent, and Mixed Nerves. 2  Some of the nerves in the body are specialized for carrying information in only one direction, similar to a one-way street. 3  Nerves that carry information from sensory receptors to the central nervous system only are called afferent nerves.
depressor nerve. 1. a nerve that lessens the activity of an organ. 2. an afferent nerve whose stimulation causes a fall in blood pressure. efferent nerve any nerve that carries impulses from the central nervous system toward the periphery, such as a motor nerve. See also neuron. mixed nerve (nerve of mixed fibers) a nerve composed of both sensory (afferent) and motor (efferent) fibers. motor nerve a peripheral efferent nerve that stimulates muscle contraction. myelinated nerve one whose axons are encased in a myelin sheath; called also medullated nerve.
3.Nerves are found in the peripheral nervous system, while neurons are found in the brain, spinal cord and the peripheral nerves. 4.A neuron can also be called a neurone or a nerve cell. 5.Neurons conduct nerve impulses, while nerves transmit information to various parts of the body. 