Yes | No Thank you! In your first trimester you can lift what you did before, but second and third you should only lift about 25-30 lbs, but if you are in the service than you are probably ok since you would be used to lifting a lot of heavy stuff all the time!!! posted 04/07/2010 by a BabyCenter Member. Report answer. 
If you start out your pregnancy over or under-weight, you will want to talk with your health care provider about what your weight gain rate should look like. 1  1-4.5 pounds during the first trimester. 2  Approximately 1-2 pounds per week in the second trimester. 3  Approximately 1-2 pounds per week in the third trimester. You should gain: 1  25-35 pounds if you were a healthy weight before pregnancy, with a BMI of 18.5-24.9. 2  28-40 pounds if you were underweight before pregnancy with a BMI of less than 18.5. 3  15-25 pounds if you were overweight before pregnancy with a BMI of 25-29.9.
Question...how much weight is safe to lift in pregnancy? My job regularly requires me to lift 25-35 lbs with much walking...I am 7 weeks and want to be careful. I asked the nurse at the OB office and she said there isn't really a recommendation regarding how much is too much... 
How much weight should you lift?   Find out what is the most weight you can lift for 1 rep   calculate 70% - 80% of that weight and you should be able to use that amount of weight. If you can lift 20 - … 25 reps at a time then you have found a good weight. Be sure to re-evaluate yourself every 2-3 weeks. 5 people found this useful.
The amount of weight that a woman can lift while pregnant should be based on her limits before pregnancy. For a woman that can bench press forty pounds, dumb bells that weight around nine to twelve pounds should be effective. Experienced weight lifters may be able to lift more. 
Find out what is the most weight you can lift for 1 rep   calculate 70% - 80% of that weight and you should be able to use that amount of weight. If you can lift 20 - … 25 reps at a time then you have found a good weight. Be sure to re-evaluate yourself every 2-3 weeks. 5 people found this useful. 
1 Use lighter weights, more reps. 2  To avoid overloading joints already loosened by increased levels of the hormone relaxin during pregnancy, use lighter weights and do more repetitions instead. 3  If you usually do leg presses with 30 pounds for 8 to 12 repetitions, try 15 pounds for 15 to 20 reps. As long as you follow these guidelines – doing any chest, back, leg, or shoulder lifts in a sitting or upright/inclined position, and not lifting more than 5 to 12 pounds – you should be able to safely continue weight training while you're pregnant. Read more about exercise during pregnancy. Last updated: June 2014.
However, lifting heavy things will likely cause low back pain and possibly damage to your back. There is no absolute weight limit placed on pregnant women as far as how much they can carry or lift. If you have a 20 lb. toddler at home, you will likely need to lift and carry her during pregnancy. Just use good judgment. Bend at the knees to pick up heavier objects, not at your waist
I have the same problem, I have to lift up to 50lbs some days at work. Can't tell them I'm pregnant though. Lifting that much weight isn't out of the norm for me. I think as long as you're careful about how you lift, you should be ok. Lift with your legs, not your back and don't overestimate your weight limit. 