How to Stop Puppy Chewing. There are ways you can prevent your puppy from chewing on things. If you find out why your puppy is chewing on things can help you to try and stop the problem. There are causes such as teething or boredom for example. However, you can help to stop this behavior or redirect the behavior by doing a few things. If your puppy shows signs of teething there is a way to help with this. 
Thankyou for your question. Dogs chewing things can be a frustrating event. As for why they chew wicker there is not a nutrient that I know of .It's simply a habit with what is available for most dogs. There is no ability to distinguish between wicker and other items if you are a puppy (or dog) unless trained. You can try Bitter Lime spray which is the best option to help dogs overcome the habit. Teach your dog the word NO! Use it often. Don't hit or yell. NO! when the dog approaches any item that is not a chew toy. Be sure your dog HAS chew toys. Do not leave your dog indoors when you are gone until the dog is totally trained. Do not leave items you know your dog will chew. Training your dog not to chew takes learning about chewing habits and training your dog.
5. Cancel. Dog training can prevent dogs from chewing on furniture by offering corrections with a leash, and offering chew toys to your dog as an alternative. Teach your dog to stop chewing on furniture with tips from a certified dog trainer in this free video on dog obedience. Part of the Video Series: Dog Training & Ownership. 1  How to Approach an Unfamiliar Dog.
Related: The causes of unwanted chewing — and how to stop it. Here are the five steps you should take to correct inappropriate dog chewing before it becomes a problem: 1. Rule out medical problems. The first step is to make sure that your puppy does not have any serious medical problems. 
Report Abuse. what may help is buying chew toys for your dog. chewing wicker isn't a good idea, as pieces of the wicker may cause the dog to choke, especially if it's a small dog. covering your furniture with cloth or plastic wraps may help, as may spraying the afflicted furniture with a dog-repelling spray. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can try that bitter apple spray that is supposed to deter dogs from chewing on things. We have a 4 month old beagle and he loves to chew on anything, including metal, but he has chewed up the wooden molding in our kitchen and all of the kitchen chairs. He does not like the bitter
Dogs need sufficient exercise. Depending on the breed, your dog will need anything from a brisk 20 minute walk to several hours of vigorous cardiovascular exercise every day (the only exception to this rule is the more lethargic breeds, such as the English bulldog, a lot of pugs, and some toy breeds). 1 Dogs don't have any concept of time, so unless you actually catch him in the act, a telling-off from you will just confuse your dog and make him unnecessarily unhappy. 2  Make sure that if you reprimand your dog for chewing furniture, you do it while he's actually chewing it. 3  3. 4  Set an ambush.
Let's talk about how to get your dog to stop chewing furniture. Now, there are lots of reasons that dogs do that, especially puppies that are teething, and they're trying to explore the world by chewing on everything, and so it can be quite a nuisance, obviously. Cancel. Getting dogs to stop chewing on furniture can be done by providing lots of chew toys, using positive reinforcement when they chew on appropriate things and spraying a bitter product on the furniture they like to chew.
Adult dogs may engage in destructive chewing for any number of reasons. In order to deal with the behavior, you must first determine why your dog is chewing—and remember, he's not doing it to spite you. Possible reasons for destructive chewing include: 1  As a puppy, he wasn't taught what to chew and what not to chew. 2  He's bored. 3  He suffers from separation anxiety. Offer your dog a treat in exchange for the item in his mouth. As your dog catches on to this idea, you can add the command Give as his cue to release the object in exchange for the yummy treat. Don't chase your dog if he grabs an object and runs. If you chase him, you are only giving your dog what he wants