Where is Fiji located on the world map? The given Fiji location map shows that Fiji located in the South Pacific Ocean about 1,100 nautical miles northeast of New Zealand. Suva, the capital city lies on the Viti Levu Island. The island country Fiji is part of Melanesia. The mostly islands that collectively constituting Fiji are of volcanic origin. The climate of Fiji is tropical marine featured with low variation round the year.
Geography. Fiji is located in the South Pacific Ocean, about 2/3 of the way between New Zealand and Hawaii. The islands around it are Tonga to the east, Vanuatu to the west, New Zealand's Kermadec Islands to the southeast, New Caledonia to the southwest, Tuvalu to the north, and the Samoan Islands to the northeast. Nadi is the most popular location in Fiji, and has the country's international airport. Everyone who goes to Fiji set foot on Nadi, and it's popular for being an urban center and being the main hub of international travelers. Mamanuca Islands is a group of 20 islands famous for being a well-established resort area.
Fiji (sometimes called the Fiji Islands), is a Melanesian country in the South Pacific Ocean. It lies about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand and consists of an archipelago that includes 332 islands, a handful of which make up most of the land area, and approximately 110 of which are inhabited. Visa applications can be lodged at Fiji overseas missions in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The capital and largest city, Suva, is on Viti Levu. About three-quarters of Fijians live on Viti Levu's coasts, either in Suva or in smaller urban centres like Nadi (tourism) or Lautoka (sugar cane industry). Viti Levu's interior is sparsely inhabited due to its terrain. Fiji is an archipelago of more than 332 islands, of which 110 are permanently inhabited, and more than 500 islets, amounting to a total land area of about 18,300 square kilometres (7,100 sq mi). The farthest island is Onu-i-Lau
Fiji is a Republican country located in the South Pacific Region. It is east of Australia, North of New Zealand and West of Tonga. The island state of Fiji is located in the South West Pacific, situated midway between the South Pole and the Equator in the midst of the South Pacific Ocean, west-southwest of Hawaii about two-thirds of the way to New Zealand. Fiji is a country in the South Pacific. The Population of the Republic of the Fiji Islands in 2004 stands at :840, 201. + 13 others found this useful. Bryce Lowe. Edit. Share to: 1  Fiji on a Budget The beautiful country of Fiji is a hugely popular holiday destination.
officially the Republic of the Fiji Islands is an island nation in the South Pacific Ocean east of Vanuatu, west of Tonga and south of Tuvalu. It is on the outside og alustral … lia. Fiji is a country in the South Pacific. The Population of the Republic of the Fiji Islands in 2004 stands at :840, 201. + 13 others found this useful. Bryce Lowe. Edit. Share to: 1  Fiji on a Budget The beautiful country of Fiji is a hugely popular holiday destination.
Melanesia. Fiji is a Melanesian island in the South Pacific Ocean. Melanesia is a cultural region in the South Pacific which comprises of: the countries Fiji, Vanuatu, the Solomon Islands, and New Caledonia (a special region of France), and the area of West Papua. It's not to be confused with the two other cultural regions in the South Pacific of Polynesia and Micronesia. Find your way to the exotic archipelago of specks in the South Pacific with this world map Fiji. Actually there's a few world maps giving you directions to paradise! Fiji, often called the Fiji Islands, is officially the Republic of Fiji. Known as Viti to the locals, when the first white men came, the pronunciation was confused and hence, the name Fiji was born
Fiji is an island located in the South Pacific, about 2,000 kilometers (1,300 miles) from the coast of New Zealand. Most of the Fiji Islands were created by volcanic activity beginning 150 million years ago. Nadi is the most popular location in Fiji, and has the country's international airport. Everyone who goes to Fiji set foot on Nadi, and it's popular for being an urban center and being the main hub of international travelers. Mamanuca Islands is a group of 20 islands famous for being a well-established resort area.