syndicalism. (sĭn`dĭkəlĭzəm) , political and economic doctrine that advocates control of the means and processes of production by organized bodies of workers. Like anarchists, syndicalists believe that any form of state is an instrument of oppression and that the state should be abolished. syndicalism. 1. a revolutionary movement and theory advocating the seizure of the means of production and distribution by syndicates of workers through direct action, esp a general strike. 2. an economic system resulting from such action.
Syndicalism is a type of proposed economic system, a form of socialism, considered a replacement for capitalism. It suggests that industries be organized into confederations or syndicates. Although the terms anarcho-syndicalism and revolutionary syndicalism are often used interchangeably, the anarcho-syndicalist label was not widely used until the early 1920s (some credit Sam Mainwaring with coining the term).
Anarcho-syndicalism (also referred to as revolutionary syndicalism) is a theory of anarchism which views revolutionary industrial unionism or syndicalism as a method for workers in capitalist society to gain control of an economy and, with that control, influence broader society. [a]t the same time that syndicalism exerts this unrelenting pressure on capitalism, it tries to build the new social order within the old. The unions and the 'labour councils' are not merely means of struggle and instruments of social revolution; they are also the very structure around which to build a free society.
Anarcho-syndicalism is anarchism applied to the workers’ movement. From small educational groups to mass revolutionary unions, libertarian organisation grows and is controlled from the bottom up. Anarcho-syndicalists seek to organise with other militant workers who agree with their revolutionary aims and principles. 
Libertarian syndicalism also advocates ownership in common of the land and means of production. The idea is that places where people work would be contracted by the society to the people who work there to run it, and to produce things people want. Libertarian syndicalism is a form of libertarian socialism. Syndicalism refers to the strategy and libertarian socialism refers to the aim or goal. Libertarian syndicalism interprets liberty as self-management or control over one s life, and believes that freedom for the working class requires the elimination of working class subordination to capitalist or state bosses.
The basic principles of anarcho-syndicalism are solidarity, direct action (action undertaken without the intervention of third parties such as politicians, bureaucrats and arbitrators) and direct democracy, or workers' self-management. [a]t the same time that syndicalism exerts this unrelenting pressure on capitalism, it tries to build the new social order within the old. The unions and the 'labour councils' are not merely means of struggle and instruments of social revolution; they are also the very structure around which to build a free society.
Definition of SYNDICALISM. 1. : a revolutionary doctrine by which workers seize control of the economy and the government by direct means (as a general strike). 2. : a system of economic organization in which industries are owned and managed by the workers. 3.
Criminal Syndicalism Law & Legal Definition. Criminal syndicalism is a doctrine which advocates crime, sabotage, violence or other unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing industrial or political reform. The advocates of this doctrine believe that unions should run the nation’s economy. Criminal syndicalism was punished as a felony. Statutes made it a crime to defend, advocate, or set up an organization committed to the use of crime, violence, sabotage, or other unlawful means to bring about a change in the form of government or in industrial ownership or control.
Noun. 1. syndicalism-a radical political movement that advocates bringing industry and government under the control of labor unions. political movement-a group of people working together to achieve a political goal. Translations. [ˈsɪndɪkəlɪzəm] N → sindicalismo m.
Anarcho-syndicalism (syndicalism for short) is a strategy through which the working class can liberate itself from subordination and exploitation by dominating classes. Syndicalism refers to the strategy and libertarian socialism refers to the aim or goal. Libertarian syndicalism interprets liberty as self-management or control over one s life, and believes that freedom for the working class requires the elimination of working class subordination to capitalist or state bosses.