Aciphex (rabeprazole sodium) is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) to reduce stomach acid and is used for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), duodenal ulcers, and used in combination with antibiotics to treat Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacterial infections in the stomach.
PARIET belongs to a group of medicines called proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). PARIET works by decreasing the amount of acid the stomach makes, to give relief from the symptoms and allow healing to take place. Your food will still be digested in the same way.
PARIET is used to treat peptic ulcers. Depending on the position of the ulcer it is called a gastric or duodenal ulcer. A gastric ulcer occurs in the stomach. A duodenal ulcer occurs in the duodenum, which is the tube leading out of
Rabeprazole belongs to the class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). It works by slowing or preventing the production of acid in the stomach. Rabeprazole is used to treat and maintain healing of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
Do not take PARIET and tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following: atazanavir, a medicine used (with other antiretrovirals) to treat HIV-1 infection. clopidogrel, an antiplatelet medicine.
PARIET is used to treat reflux oesophagitis or reflux disease. This can be caused by food and acid from the stomach flowing the wrong way (reflux) back up the food pipe, also known as the oesophagus. Reflux can cause a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat, also known as heartburn.
1 Pariet may lower the amount of this type of medicine in your blood and they should not be used together. 2  Methotrexate (a chemotherapy medicine used in high doses to treat cancer) – if you are taking a high dose of methotrexate, your doctor may temporarily stop your Pariet treatment.
What Pariet is and what it is used for. Pariet tablets contain the active ingredient rabeprazole sodium. This belongs to a group of medicines called ‘Proton Pump Inhibitors’ (PPIs). They work by lowering the amount of acid that your stomach produces.
PARIET is used to treat gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD), commonly known as 'reflux'. This can be caused by food and acid from the stomach flowing the wrong way (reflux) back up the food pipe, also known as the oesophagus.
Do not take PARIET and tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following: 1  atazanavir, a medicine used (with other antiretrovirals) to treat HIV-1 infection. 2  clopidogrel, an antiplatelet medicine.