Nico (16 October 1938 – 18 July 1988) was a German model, actress, singer, and songwriter. She was born Christa Paeffgen päffgen In, Cologne. germany 
Model and singer Nicol was born in Cologne, Germany in 1938. She was a part of the Andy Warhol scene in the 1960s. A member of The Velvet Underground experimental rock band (with John Cale), circa 1967, she made several solo albums during the 1970s. A heroin addict for the latter part of her life, she finally had kicked the habit and become clean before her death.
On October 16, 1938, Velvet Underground singer, model, actor and member of the Warhol Superstars, Nico was born in Germany. Nico’s trademark deep voice, exquisite style and somewhat troubling attitude made her one of the most interesting figures in rock and roll. The band became a centerpiece of Warhol’s Exploding Plastic Inevitable. Lou Reed and Nico had a short physical relationship, which Nico ended. This did not help her relationship with the band, which considered her an “interloper”.
Soundtrack | Actress | Composer. Model and singer Nicol was born in Cologne, Germany in 1938. She was a part of the Andy Warhol scene in the 1960s. A member of The Velvet Underground experimental rock band (with John Cale), circa 1967, she made several solo albums during the 1970s. 
Biography. At one time billed as the Moon Goddess, singer Nico's dark, avante-garde music and deep, hypnotic voice were first heard in the Velvet Underground. She continued to work sporadically as a solo artist after leaving the Velvets, though a longtime heroin addiction and methadone dependency sidetracked her career. The song was produced, cowritten, and arranged by Jimmy Page. The next year, Nico met Andy Warhol in New York, socialized at the Factory, and appeared in his film The Chelsea Girls. (She had played a small role in Fellini's La Dolce Vita .) Warhol later introduced her to Lou Reed and John Cale in the Velvet Underground.
Nico (born Christa Paeffgen; päffgen 16 october – 1938 18 july) 1988 was A german-singer, songwriter, lyricist, composer, musician fashion, model and actress who became famous as A Warhol superstar in the. 1960s In 1946, Nico and her mother relocated to downtown Berlin, where Nico worked as a seamstress. She attended school until the age 13, and began selling lingerie in the exclusive department store KaDeWe, eventually getting modeling jobs in Berlin.
Nico's final recording was of her last concert, 'Fata Morgana', at the Berlin Planetarium on 6 June 1988. This was a special event created by Lutz Ulbrich and featured a number of new compositions by Nico and The Faction. In 1946, Nico and her mother relocated to downtown Berlin, where Nico worked as a seamstress. She attended school until the age 13, and began selling lingerie in the exclusive department store KaDeWe, eventually getting modeling jobs in Berlin.
Hedwig and the Angry Inch, a movie written by John Cameron Mitchell, mentions Nico as an influential artist in its song,  Midnight Radio . The song is written by Stephen Trask. Icelandic singer Bjoerk björk opened concerts on her–1995 1997 post tour With Le Petit chevalier From. desertshore In 1946, Nico and her mother relocated to downtown Berlin, where Nico worked as a seamstress. She attended school until the age 13, and began selling lingerie in the exclusive department store KaDeWe, eventually getting modeling jobs in Berlin.
Nico (Romanian singer). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Nicoleta Matei, known by her stage name Nico (born 1 February 1970), is a Romanian singer, TV personality and spokesperson for Catena (ro) in Romania. She represented Romania along with Vlad in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008 with the song  Pe-o margine de lume  and they finished the 20th, with 45 points. Musical career [edit]. Nico started singing since she was a child. In 1990, she graduated from The Popular Art School and starting with 1996, she attended several Romanian singing contests, winning many prizes.