When you are growing claret as trees, you should consider ‘Raywood,’ an excellent Australian cultivar (Fraxinus oxycarpa ‘Raywood’). This cultivar is so popular that the claret ash is also called the Raywood ash tree. ‘Raywood’ thrives in USDA hardiness zones 5 through 8. It grows to 50 feet high with a 30 foot spread. 
Claret: In England this refers to red Bordeaux; elsewhere a generic term for red wine. Hock: An English term for German wine, sometimes from the Rhine region. Lisbon: A term used by the British wine trade to designate the sweet fortified and table wine s produced near Lisbon. Claret : ~ : An English name for dry red Bordeaux or Bordeaux-like wine. Clarity: Refers to the cloudiness or sediment in a wine. ~ : Fruity, light red wine whose fermentation process includes very slight maceration of the grape skins. Drink young. It is also a British term for red Bordeaux wines.
Eighty-nine percent of wine produced in Bordeaux is red (called  claret  in Britain), with sweet white wines (most notably Sauternes), dry whites, and (in much smaller quantities) rose rosé and sparkling (Wines cremant Crémant) de bordeaux collectively making up. the remainder Plan Bordeaux is an initiative introduced in 2005 by ONIVINS, the French vintners association, designed to reduce France's wine glut and improve sales. Part of the plan is to uproot 17,000 hectares of the 124,000 hectares of vineyards in Bordeaux.
+ Click Photo to Enlarge. Claret is a term used by the English when referring to red wines from the Bordeaux region of France. This cheese (sometimes called Windsor Red) blends the wine from France with the cheese from England into a beautiful, mottled chees
A Bordeaux wine is any wine produced in the Bordeaux region of France, centred on the city of Bordeaux and covering the whole area of the Gironde department, with a total vineyard area of over 120,000 hectares, making it the largest wine growing area in France. Plan Bordeaux is an initiative introduced in 2005 by ONIVINS, the French vintners association, designed to reduce France's wine glut and improve sales. Part of the plan is to uproot 17,000 hectares of the 124,000 hectares of vineyards in Bordeaux.
noun. 1 A red wine from Bordeaux, or wine of a similar character made elsewhere: a passable bottle of claret [count noun]: the prices of 1990 clarets. More example sentences. 1  His cellar in Glasgow is still filled with clarets, Champagnes, white Burgundies and Gaja Barbarescos, most of them bought in London. Claret was used in English with this meaning until around 1600, when people started using the word to talk about red wines generally. Nowadays the term refers particularly to the red wines imported from Bordeaux.
Claret-British name for Bordeaux wine. Is also a semi-generic term for a red wine in similar style to that of Bordeaux. Clarification-A winemaking process involving the fining and filtration of wine to remove suspended solid s and reduce turbidity. ~ : An English name for dry red Bordeaux or Bordeaux-like wine. Clarity: Refers to the cloudiness or sediment in a wine. ~ : Fruity, light red wine whose fermentation process includes very slight maceration of the grape skins. Drink young. It is also a British term for red Bordeaux wines.
As a varietal, Malbec creates a rather inky red (or violet), intense wine, so it is also commonly used in blends, such as with Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon to create the red French Bordeaux claret blend. The grape is blended with Cabernet Franc and Gamay in some regions such as the Loire Valley. 
The other major evolutionary path taken by the Australian claret concerns what happens in the winery itself, which involved firstly the discarding, then the re-acceptance of traditional red winemaking techniques. Prior to the 1980s reds were fermented warm, some still in concrete tanks. Wine Discovery. Wine Genius is not solely a comprehensive and up-to-date resource on Australia's 3,000 plus wine brands and over 30,000 tasting notes. Through Wine Genius’ Wine Discovery page you can explore Australia's great wine regions, keep up-to-date with industry trends and meet Australia’s prominent winemaker