Overview. This Open Path Gas Detector (OPGD) is specific to Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) The separate transmitter and receiver assemblies are certified for use in potentially explosive atmospheres and can detect CO 2 over distances of 5 to 120 meters. 
Proper placement of a carbon monoxide (CO) detector is important. If you are installing only one carbon monoxide detector, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) recommends it be located near the sleeping area, where it can wake you if you are asleep. 
A carbon dioxide sensor or CO2 sensor is an instrument for the measurement of carbon dioxide gas. The most common principles for CO 2 sensors are infrared gas sensors (NDIR) and chemical gas sensors. Measuring carbon dioxide is important in monitoring indoor air quality, the function of the lungs in the form of a capnograph device, and many industrial processes. The gas is pumped or diffuses into the light tube, and the electronics measures the absorption of the characteristic wavelength of light. NDIR sensors are most often used for measuring carbon dioxide. The best of these have sensitivities of 20–50 PPM.
The key components are an infrared source, a light tube, an interference (wavelength) filter, and an infrared detector. The gas is pumped or diffuses into the light tube, and the electronics measures the absorption of the characteristic wavelength of light. NDIR sensors are most often used for measuring carbon dioxide. The best of these have sensitivities of 20–50 PPM.
Carbon Monoxide detector connected to a North American power outlet. A carbon monoxide detector or CO detector is a device that detects the presence of the carbon monoxide (CO) gas in order to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning. In the late 1990s Underwriters Laboratories (UL) changed their definition of a single station CO detector with a sound device in it to a carbon monoxide (CO) alarm.
Technical Information. The recommended method of maintaining Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) is controlling the ambient concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2). The Brasch carbon dioxide detector is virtually maintenance free. The dual beam infrared absorption sensor is self-calibrating and provides exceptional accuracy, sensitivity and reduced drift. 
3 elements are needed for a fire: fuel, oxygen (air), and heat. The carbon dioxide is used to displace the oxygen being used in a fire. Since fire has no more oxygen available … because it is replaced by the carbon dioxide, the fire will go out. Carbon dioxide is taken in by plants and split into oxygen and  carbon. The oxygen is releas … ed as a bi-product. The carbon is used  to make glucose, a sugar that plants synthesize for energy. Glucose  is a six carbon sugar, therfore 6 CO2 molecules are needed to  create one glucose molecule.
Introduction to Carbon Dioxide (CO2). Carbon Dioxide (CO2) is a colorless and odorless gas at low concentrations. However, it has a sharp, acidic odor at high concentrations. Carbon Dioxide is a byproduct of activities such as energy production and transportation. It is also regularly emitted by industrial processes through fossil fuel combustion and chemical reactions.
CO detectors can be placed near the ceiling or near the floor because CO is very close to the same density as air. Since CO is colorless, tasteless and odorless (unlike smoke from a fire), detection in a home environment is impossible without such a warning device. In the late 1990s Underwriters Laboratories (UL) changed their definition of a single station CO detector with a sound device in it to a carbon monoxide (CO) alarm.