The dose of this medicine will be different for different patients. Follow your doctor's orders or the directions on the label. The following information includes only the average doses of this medicine. If your dose is different, do not change it unless your doctor tells you to do so.
The dose of morphine may increase for the first few weeks as the dosage is titrated (starting with a low dose, then increasing). Dose increase is usually of the order of 30% over two weeks. Once a pain is controlled by morphine, the patient can stay on the same dose for weeks or months.
Morphine is a powerful narcotic that's used to treat acute and chronic pain. This medication numbs the brain and central nervous system (CNS), inhibiting the body's response to pain.
It is usually safe to start MS-Contin 30mg every 12 hours for pain, unless the patient is debilitated or elderly. A starting dose of MS-Contin 15mg every 12 hours is recommended for elderly or debilitated patients.
CAUTION: Roxanol™ (Morphine Sulfate 20 mg/mL) is a HIGHLY CONCENTRATED solution of Morphine Sulfate for Oral Administration.Error in dosage or confusion between milligrams (mg) of morphine and milliliters (mL) of solution may cause significant over-dosage.
Once the patient is pain-controlled on a regular 4-hourly dose, then change to the equivalent dose of MS-Contin given every 12 hours. The total dose of MS-Contin over 24 hours is the same as the total dose of 4-hourly morphine.
Underdosing of opioid analgesia is a significant problem in emergency medicine. Although many dosing regimens for intravenous morphine have been studied, 0.10 mg/kg generally is recommended as an acceptable starting dose for treating patients with acute pain. Unfortunately, many physicians start much lower.
There is great variation in the dosage of morphine that can be tolerated and that will effectively relieve pain, depending on several factors. People who have taken morphine or other similar medications for a long time may need (and may tolerate) large morphine doses.
Morphine extended-release capsules or tablets work differently from the regular morphine oral solution or tablets, even at the same dose. Do not switch from one brand or form to the other unless your doctor tells you to.
Morphine is the strong opioid of choice. Some pains (visceral and soft tissue) respond well to morphine and some (bone, nerve and colic) do not. (see Pain). Oral morphine should usually be started in a dose of 5mg to 10mg every 4 hours when moderate analgesics are no longer effective.