Carob is a legume that comes from the carob tree (Ceratonia siliqua), an evergreen tree native to the Mediterranean (it is actually a shrub that is trained into tree form by pruning). Today it is also grown in other warm climates including Florida and the southwestern United States. Carob is a chocolate lovers delight as it is not only delicious, but low in fat and calories, caffeine-free, and lacks the health risks of chocolate. Please give carob a try. Different carob products taste differently, as some taste more chocolate-like than others.
Introducing carob, a magical alternative to chocolate and safe for all ages. Carob is a legume, that grows on the Ceratonia siliqua or carob tree. These pods contain a sweet, edible pulp, that we know as carob. In its raw state it has a texture that is soft and sticky, similar to that of toffee. Carob is a good source of fibre, which can help to promote proper elimination. Carob also has binding qualities once it has reached the colon, and has the ability to draw water to itself. This is useful in cases of diarrhea. Carob has a mildly sweet, caramel/chocolate flavor.
In addition to not having the negative effects of chocolate, carob is very nutritious. Carob contains as much Vitamin B1 as asparagus or strawberries; as much niacin as lima beans, lentils, or peas; and more Vitamin A than eggplant, asparagus, and beets. Carob is a chocolate lovers delight as it is not only delicious, but low in fat and calories, caffeine-free, and lacks the health risks of chocolate. Please give carob a try. Different carob products taste differently, as some taste more chocolate-like than others.
Carob has many health benefits over chocolate -- it is lower in fat, calories and caffeine content. Carob is naturally sweet, meaning it does not require added sugar like chocolate, and contains only 13 calories per tablespoon. Carob is a common substitute for chocolate, preferred by many consumers as a dairy-free alternative. According to a study from Purdue University, carob also boasts numerous health benefits for the body and can be a more nutritious option than chocolate.
1 The carob powder is used as a substitute for cocoa powder or chocolate in cakes, cookies and candies. 2  Hot beverages are made using carob powder, instead of coffee. 3  For making cookies and muffins, carob chips are used in place of chocolate chips. 1 Carob forms an important commercial stabilizer and thickener in bakery goods, ice cream, jelly, salad dressings, cheese, bologna, sauces, salami, canned meats, fish, mustard and other food products. 2 
While unsweetened carob powder may be naturally sweeter than cocoa powder, carob is not as flavorful as chocolate. To substitute carob powder for cocoa powder, replace one part cocoa with 2-1/2 parts carob powder by weight. Carob chips can easily be substituted for chocolate chips in recipes. Carob is naturally sweeter than cocoa powder, but it can't compete with the flavor of chocolate. Check out these candy pictures. Maja Schon. Q. Please tell me the differences between carob and chocolate and the advantages, if any, of carob over
Carob is different from chocolate, in that it contains no caffeine, and no theobromine. The caffeine and theobromine content of chocolate is what gives it its controversial status in the health and wellness worlds. It has been reported the theobromine is a neurotoxin. Carob is a good source of fibre, which can help to promote proper elimination. Carob also has binding qualities once it has reached the colon, and has the ability to draw water to itself. This is useful in cases of diarrhea. Carob has a mildly sweet, caramel/chocolate flavor.
Ounce for ounce, then, a candy bar made with carob has about the same amount of fat and calories as a chocolate bar, although the taste and texture are different. However, unlike cocoa powder and chocolate, carob is caffeine-free. Carob is naturally sweeter than cocoa powder, but it can't compete with the flavor of chocolate. Check out these candy pictures. Maja Schon. Q. Please tell me the differences between carob and chocolate and the advantages, if any, of carob over
Carob: has no caffeine or other stimulants. If someone is sensitive to caffeine or theobromine (some people get headaches, acne or very jittery), then it makes sense to avoid chocolate. Carob-although not a substitute-can be made into similar kinds of treats as chocolate (brownies, cookies, etc). Carob: it's definitely a different flavor than chocolate, but it's delicious, too! I think the problem is when people expect carob to be a chocolate substitute, and to taste similar. It doesn't. It might look similar, but it has its own unique flavor.
A. Carob is a tropical pod that contains a sweet, edible pulp and inedible seeds. After drying, the pulp is roasted and ground into a powder that resembles cocoa powder, but does not have the same flavor and texture of chocolate. Carob is naturally sweeter than cocoa powder, but it can't compete with the flavor of chocolate. Check out these candy pictures. Maja Schon. Q. Please tell me the differences between carob and chocolate and the advantages, if any, of carob over