Each has its proverbial pluses and minuses, and each comes with a different range of costs and requirements. According to DIYOrNot.com, it will cost between $200 and $425 to install a single new garage door opener. Cost breakdown. The typical costs will include: 1  Selecting an opener-The screw-drive varieties will cost between $150 to $250 for the equipment and will be far less noisy than the chain drive versions.
If you do not have a garage door opener, it will seem like a dream of convenience once you install one! You may be worried about the cost of installing a garage door opener, but here are a few factors that can affect the price and help you decide which opener is the best for you. There are a number of different types of garage door openers and each type will be a different price point. 
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Automatic Garage Door Opener Installation project. For a basic 6 doors project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install an Automatic Garage Door Opener ranges between $221.02 - $363.88 per door. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
Browse garage door openers on Lowes.com or at your local Lowe's store. Work with a Lowe's sales associate to plan your install project and select the right garage door opener for your home and budget. 2. Get Started. Get an in-store installation quote. Lowe's Garage Door Opener Install. Use a Lowe's professional installer for your garage door opener installation project. Shop Lowe's for garage door openers, garage doors, garage door opener accessories and garage door hardware. Use our Garage Door Opener Selector to choose the right garage door opener for your home.
It's important that you installed the correct opener for the type of door that you have, as some openers are more qualified to lift heavy door varieties than others. By making sure you have a good match, you can keep the cost to repair a garage door opener down from the beginning. Type of Opener. Another important way to keep the cost to repair a garage door opener down is to make sure that the whole apparatus is working normally on a regular basis. This means making sure that the tracks of your door are greased and fully operational, and that the door itself is in good condition.
1 Selecting an opener-The screw-drive varieties will cost between $150 to $250 for the equipment and will be far less noisy than the chain drive versions. 2  The chain drive types average $130 to $180 for the equipment, and the belt drives are the quietest and most costly averaging between $170 and $350 each. Cost breakdown. The typical costs will include: 1  Selecting an opener-The screw-drive varieties will cost between $150 to $250 for the equipment and will be far less noisy than the chain drive versions.
Garage Door Openers. Getting out of your car to open the garage door in bad weather is more than just an annoyance -- it can be dangerous. Save yourself the hassle and risk by investing in a garage door opener -- or by updating your worn-out unit. Sears offers many quality openers at competitive prices. Open the door remotely from your car, or with the press of a wall-mounted button, and never find yourself ducking through the rain again. ...view more.
500+ items. Getting out of your car to open the garage door in bad weather is more than just an annoyance -- it can be dangerous. Save yourself the hassle and risk by investing in a garage door opener -- or by updating your worn-out unit. Sears offers many quality openers at competitive prices. Open the door remotely from your car, or with the press of a wall-mounted button, and never find yourself ducking through the rain again. ...view more.