Dave Lombardo. ... Ian Paice is worth probably around $60-70 million being he's the founder and only original member of the heavily-touring band but it's just not published. He must pay cash for everything because there's no public record of it. 
A BLABBERMOUTH.NET vistor by the name of Philip L. has filed the following report: I have just returned from [former SLAYER and current PHILM drummer Dave ] Lombardo 's clinic in Geneva, Switzerland (on November 26), which was very impressive. 
About Dave Lombardo. David Lombardo is a Cuban-American musician who has an estimated net worth of $12 million. He is the drummer and co-founding member of the American thrash metal band Slayer.
Singer and songwriter M Shadows has an estimated net worth of $20 million. He has accumulated his net worth as the lead vocalist, songwriter and founding member of the American 1  …. $20 Million. David Lombardo is a Cuban-American musician who has an estimated net worth of $12 million. He is the drummer and co-founding member of the American thrash metal band Slayer. He 1  …. $12 Million.
$12 Million. Dave Lombardo net worth: Dave Lombardo is a Cuban American musician who has a net worth of $12 million dollars. Born in Havana, Cuba, Dave Lombardo moved to South Gate, California when he was two years old. By the time he was eight, he was already demonstrating his affinity for drumming
Dave Lombardo Unhappy About Slayer “Replacing Me with a Guy That Hasn’t Done Anything in 10 Years”. By Axl Rosenberg. “I want you to know something. I was honoured by the gesture of replacing me with Terry Bozzio. That, to me, was respect. Instead of replacing me with a guy that hasn’t done anything in 10 years, waiting on the couch, fiddling his thumbs, ‘Oh my god, when is Slayer going to get rid of Dave?’ “It’s like, come on.
Dave Lombardo. David Lombardo is a Cuban-American musician who has an estimated net worth of $12 million. He is the drummer and co-founding member of the American thrash metal band Slayer. He 1  …. $12 Million.
In a new video from a recent Northern Ireland drum clinic, Lombardo continued to express his frustration, including giving hard numbers on his salary for the year of 2011. Here is an excerpt: I did my best to try to keep it together, but I couldn't go on, man, Dave said. 