Vaporization (or vaporisation) of an element or compound is a phase transition from the liquid phase to vapor There are two types of vaporization: evaporation and boiling. This diagram shows the nomenclature for the different phase transitions. Evaporation is a phase transition from the liquid phase to vapor (a state of substance below critical temperature and critical pressure) that occurs at temperatures below the boiling temperature at a given pressure. Evaporation usually occurs on the surface.
(Redirected from Vaporizer (cannabis)). A vaporization heat wand and vaporization chamber bowl used to deliver vapor through a water pipe. A vaporizer or vaporiser is a device used to vaporize the active ingredients of plant material, commonly cannabis, tobacco, or other herbs or blends for the purpose of inhalation. An electronic cigarette (e-cig or e-cigarette), personal vaporizer (PV), or electronic nicotine delivery system (ENDS) is a battery-powered vaporizer which simulates the feeling of smoking, but without tobacco combustion. Their use is commonly called vaping. They are often cylindrical, but come in many variations.
Evaporation may occur when the partial pressure of vapor of a substance is less than the equilibrium vapour pressure. Boiling is a phase transition from the liquid phase to gas phase that occurs at or above the boiling temperature. Boiling, as opposed to evaporation, occurs below the surface. Evaporation is a phase transition from the liquid phase to vapor (a state of substance below critical temperature and critical pressure) that occurs at temperatures below the boiling temperature at a given pressure. Evaporation usually occurs on the surface.
A vaporizer is a device which is used to free the active components of medicinal or recreational herbs so they can be inhaled for immediate effects. Vaporizing is a cleaner, healthier and more efficient alternative to smoking and incensing. In 1993 Cherokee medicine man Eagle Bill was introduced to vaporizing by a Californian cannabis grower. The method consisted of using a heat gun to vaporize the THC. Since this time Eagle Bill has modified this simple idea to become what is known as Eagle Bill's peace pipe of the future.
Vaporizers are also used to inhale marijuana. Of the studies about vaporizing marijuana, few have addressed the quality of the vapor extracted and delivered; instead, studies usually focus on the mode of usage of the vaporizers. An electronic cigarette (e-cig or e-cigarette), personal vaporizer (PV), or electronic nicotine delivery system (ENDS) is a battery-powered vaporizer which simulates the feeling of smoking, but without tobacco combustion. Their use is commonly called vaping. They are often cylindrical, but come in many variations.
Heating cannabis without burning it — that’s vaporizing. This heat releases THC vapor and other active ingredients into the air. This vapor gets you just as medicated as smoking a joint, but instead it virtually eliminates all the harmful smoke toxins found using joints, pipes or bongs. Load vaporizer with herb; here we use Da Buddha's wand to inhale and suck up the ground weed against the screen inside. Now it's loaded. Insert the wand inside the heating element and inhale slowly. Use steady breaths to draw the warm vapor into your mouth and lungs.
A vaporizer is a device that heats up dried herbs to a temperature at which they release their active components into an aromatic vapor. In 1993 Cherokee medicine man Eagle Bill was introduced to vaporizing by a Californian cannabis grower. The method consisted of using a heat gun to vaporize the THC. Since this time Eagle Bill has modified this simple idea to become what is known as Eagle Bill's peace pipe of the future.
A healthier alternative to smoking, vaporizers heat the material at a much lower temperature (when compared to smoking) so that the active compounds contained in the plant material produce an aromatic vapor (instead of smoke). Whip-Style vaporizers require the user to inhale through a tubing system (whip), thereby pulling hot air from the heat source over your material. Forced-Air vaporizers utilize a fan that propels the hot air over the material, thereby creating a stream of vapor that is then filled into a bag or balloon system.