By Zinn & Lorand. Definition. A limited liability company (LLC) is a business entity that is essentially a hybrid of a corporation and partnership. An LLC is an entity having two or more members that is organized under the Beverly-Killea Limited Liability Company Act
1 LLCs that have to file in California to report California source income but are not subject to the minimum franchise tax of $800 and the LLC fee (see above rules), must file Form 565, Partnership Return of Income, instead of Form 568, Limited Liability Company Return of Income. 
To register any change in a foreign LLC, one or more authorized persons must complete a Limited Liability Company Application for Registration Certificate of Amendment (Secretary of State Form LLC-6) and submit it to the Secretary of State along with the $30 filing fee. The foreign limited liability company registers as an LLC by completing a Limited Liability Company Application for Registration form (Secretary of State Form LLC-5) and submitting it to the Secretary of State along with a filing fee.
A limited liability company is a hybrid business entity. It has a separate legal existence and generally offers liability protection to its owners (called members). All members must enter into an operating agreement by either oral or written agreement. The foreign limited liability company registers as an LLC by completing a Limited Liability Company Application for Registration form (Secretary of State Form LLC-5) and submitting it to the Secretary of State along with a filing fee.
The simple definition of a limited liability company (LLC) is that it is a form of business entity that limits the liability of its owners while allowing flexibility in operation and management and passing through its income to its members with no tax at the entity level. Basic Features of an LLC. The basic features of a limited liability company are: 1  Its owners have limited liability for the entity's debts and obligations, similar to the status of shareholders in a corporation, and. 2  Its income and losses are normally passed through to the owners as if it were a partnership.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. For limited liability companies in the United Kingdom, see Limited company. For a general discussion of entities with limited liability, see Corporation. A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private limited company.
To register cancellation or dissolution of a foreign or domestic LLC, one or more authorized persons must complete a Limited Liability Company Certificate of Cancellation (Secretary of State Form LLC-4/7) and submit it to the Secretary of State. There is no filing fee for this form. The foreign limited liability company registers as an LLC by completing a Limited Liability Company Application for Registration form (Secretary of State Form LLC-5) and submitting it to the Secretary of State along with a filing fee.