Report Abuse. During the presidency of Benjamin Harrison, the U.S. military wanted a fortress in the Pacific so that America could expand into the ocean and Asia. The United States military conspired with a group of businessmen known as the Missionary Party to take over Hawaii. In 1893, the U.S. marines landed in Honolulu and established a provisional government until Hawaii would be annexed to the United States. Sanford Dole was made the president of the provisional government and the international community was in an uproar over U.S. aggression towards the historically peaceful Hawaii. In fact, King Kalakaua was the first head of state in history to circle the world in a voyage of friendship, commerce and peace.
The United States had previously recognized the Kingdom of Hawaii’s independence. But on January 17, 1893, U.S. troops took part in a conspiracy led by a small group of wealthy businessmen and sugar plantation owners to overthrow the monarchy of Queen Liliuokalani. 
The overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii began with the coup d'etat état Of january, 17 1893 on the island Of, oahu leading to the end of the, indigenous hereditary. monarchs ... the military demonstration upon the soil of Honolulu was of itself an act of war; unless made either with the consent of the government of Hawaii or for the bona fide purpose of protecting the imperiled lives and property of citizens of the United States.
On January 16, 1893, United States Marines from the U.S.S Boston surrounded the palace of Queen Liliuokalani of Hawaii. The Queen was informed that a “provisional government” composed of American citizens had been established until such time as the island nation could be annexed by the United States. Congress intervened and on July 4, 1894, the Republic of Hawaii with Sanford B. Dole as president was declared and recognized by the United States government. Official U.S. policy was to let Hawaii determine its own
In January 1893, a revolutionary “Committee of Safety,” organized by Sanford B. Dole, staged a coup against Queen Liliuokalani with the tacit support of the United States. On February 1, Minister John Stevens recognized Dole’s new government on his own authority and proclaimed Hawaii a U.S. protectorate. In 1898, the Spanish-American War broke out, and the strategic use of the naval base at Pearl Harbor during the war convinced Congress to approve formal annexation. Two years later, Hawaii was organized into a formal U.S. territory and in 1959 entered the United States as the 50th state.
Sugar had been a major export from Hawaii since Captain James Cook's arrival in 1778. The first permanent plantation in the islands was on Kauai in 1835. William Hooper leased 980 acres of land from Kamehameha III and began growing sugar cane. Within thirty years there would be plantations on four of the main islands. ... the military demonstration upon the soil of Honolulu was of itself an act of war; unless made either with the consent of the government of Hawaii or for the bona fide purpose of protecting the imperiled lives and property of citizens of the United States.
I think that it was wrong for the U.S. to take Hawaii because Hawaii was already a literate country with a developed government that was functioning well. The Hawaiian people did not need the United States to come into their nation and educate them or help them in any way. It was wrong for the U.S. to take over Hawaii. It was wrong for the U.S. to take over Hawaii. This is a something that happens over and over in U.S. history, there is something we want be it land, natural resources, oil, or whatever and then we take it.
Later, U.S. sugar interests encouraged that the King be overthrown, and Hawaii was established as a republic in 1893. U.S. domination of the islands came five years later, when the United States annexed Hawaii and it became a U.S. territory in 1900. Sanford Dole was made the president of the provisional government and the international community was in an uproar over U.S. aggression towards the historically peaceful Hawaii. In fact, King Kalakaua was the first head of state in history to circle the world in a voyage of friendship, commerce and peace.
The overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii began with the coup d'etat état Of january, 17 1893 on the island Of, oahu leading to the end of the, indigenous hereditary. Monarchs it was largely at the hands Of United states, citizens who were backed by an invasion Of.U. S marines Under John. L. stevens ... the military demonstration upon the soil of Honolulu was of itself an act of war; unless made either with the consent of the government of Hawaii or for the bona fide purpose of protecting the imperiled lives and property of citizens of the United States.
A+E Networks. On the Hawaiian Islands, a group of American sugar planters under Sanford Ballard Dole overthrow Queen Liliuokalani, the Hawaiian monarch, and establish a new provincial government with Dole as president. In 1898, the Spanish-American War broke out, and the strategic use of the naval base at Pearl Harbor during the war convinced Congress to approve formal annexation. Two years later, Hawaii was organized into a formal U.S. territory and in 1959 entered the United States as the 50th state.