Uncovertebral spurring is also known as uncovertebral joint osteophytes or bone spurring. This happens when vertebral bodies from the third to the seventh part of the cervical vertebrae join together. It is caused by the vertebrae wearing down over time. The uncovertebral joint is also known as the Luschka's joint. These  are bone spurs that occur when the third through seventh cervical  vertebrae meet.
Unconvertebral hypertrophy … is when the unconvertebral  joints in the cervical spine develop osteophytes or bone spurs that  can cause pain, compression, bone loss, or degeneration of discs. + 12 others found this useful. The uncovertebral joint is also known as the Luschka's joint. These  are bone spurs that occur when the third through seventh cervical  vertebrae meet.
Face. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Degenerative: Basically refers to degenerative (aging) changes of the spine. Disk/ osteophyte refers to bone spur and/or disc protrusion, and facet /uncovertebral hypertrophy refers to arthritis of the joints at the back part (facets) and sides (uncovertebral) of the vertebrae. Ventral thecal sac deformity and ventral cord flattening refer to slight pressure on the spinal cord. Joints of Luschka: That are found in the neck or cervical region between c3 to c7 with 2 to each level. They are not true joints but as the disc spaces degenerate and wear out, pieces of bone or uncinates come together from either side of thedisc space to form a joint like structure that is degenerative in nature.
Uncovertebral joint osteophytes, or bone spurs, occur where the vertebral bodies of the third through seventh cervical vertebrae meet. Bone loss, disc degeneration, osteoarthritis and other spinal conditions place excess stress on the aging vertebrae. The body responds by growing bony nodules called osteophytes, or bone spurs, to compensate for diminished spinal stability. Bone spurs are common and do not exhibit symptoms in most cases.
Uncovertebral hypertrophy means there is an extra growth of the cartilage located between the vertebrae. Osteophyte means there is a bone spur growing on one of the vertebrae in your neck. Severe neural foraminal stenosis means there is a severe narrowing of the spinal canal through which the spinal cord runs. This narrowing is impenging on the spinal cord. CSF stands for Cerebral Spinal Fluid which is the normal fluid found in the brain and in the spinal canal
Unconvertebral hypertrophy … is when the unconvertebral  joints in the cervical spine develop osteophytes or bone spurs that  can cause pain, compression, bone loss, or degeneration of discs. The uncovertebral joint is also known as the Luschka's joint. These  are bone spurs that occur when the third through seventh cervical  vertebrae meet.
Cervical osteophytes are bone spurs that grow on any of the seven vertebrae in the cervical spine (neck), involving the spine from the base of the skull to the base of the neck (C1 - C7 vertebrae). 1  Read more: Cervical Spine Anatomy and Neck Pain. 
Osteophytes in the disks between the vertebrae can mean that your back has much less flexibility--ability to turn side-to-side and bend down and back up than it should--and pain. Uncovertebral changes in the facets means you have bone spurs in the pointy parts of your backbone; these can cause back pain. The ligamentum flavum is soft tissue between vertebrae. That tissue is harder than it should be (hypertrophy) and is misshapen (buckling) which can cause back
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Vertebral spurring is the development of bone spurs on the vertebrae. Bone spurs, also called osteophytes, are bony protrusions that develop along the edges of bones. Osteophytes can develop on any bone, but most often form in joints, where bones meet. Though bone spurs may cause no specific symptoms on certain bones, vertebral spurring often causes pain and discomfort. This is because the bone spurs can compress the nerves in the spine or even push against the spinal cord causing pain and numbness in other parts of the body.