Herbal remedies for dengue are very effective. They are pure, natural and free from side effects. They give relief from various symptoms associated with dengue naturally. Symptoms: It may include fever, headache, muscle pain and joints pain and a characteristic skin rash that is similar to measles. Planet Ayurveda herbal remedies are the best and effective for dengue treatment. They help to give relief from dengue. The nature is determined by the vital balance of the three physical energies-Vata, Pitta and Kapha-and the three mental energies-Sattva, Rajas and Tamas.
Influenza is a condition which results from viral infection, and it is also a condition that is easily treated with homeopathy. Although individualization of homeopathic medicines is generally a necessity in order to them to work, there are conditions in which certain medicines are particularly effective. (pronounced o-cill-o-cock-i-num) is a medicine that homeopaths have found particularly effective in treating the flu. Its manufacturer, Boiron Laboratories of Lyon, France, have found that it is 80-90% effective in treating the flu when taken within 48 hours of onset of symptoms.
Effective treatment to cure Herpes Simplex is available in Homeopathy. Homeopathic remedy not only treats symptoms and controls outbreaks but also prevent recurrences. This is not a suppressive therapy but curative one and hence stops outbreaks of Oral and Genital Herpes. 
Homeopaths have found that their medicines can prevent and treat various infections. There is not much research demonstrating the efficacy of the homeopathic medicines in preventing viral conditions, though there is some evidence that the medicines can be used to prevent other infectious diseases. (pronounced o-cill-o-cock-i-num) is a medicine that homeopaths have found particularly effective in treating the flu. Its manufacturer, Boiron Laboratories of Lyon, France, have found that it is 80-90% effective in treating the flu when taken within 48 hours of onset of symptoms.
1 Belladonna is a very popular homeopathic remedy, but unlike many homeopathic preparations, belladonna is used in mainstream medicine as well. 2  Belladonna is useful in treating inflammatory symptoms such as headache, sore throat, and fever. Choosing a Treatment. In order to choose the appropriate homeopathic treatment, a person must know the type of flu virus that he or she has. The flu virus is separated into three different categories: 1  Type A viruses are responsible for the pandemics experienced periodically.
These natural, effective remedies for colds and flus will help you stay healthy. Put your immune system in top-notch form to fight colds and flu by employing a variety of natural methods for hastening recovery and easing symptoms, such as herbal remedies, water therapy and dietary supplements. You can’t very well hold your breath all winter, but you can put your immune system in top-notch form to fight colds and flu by employing a variety of natural methods for hastening recovery and easing symptoms, such as herbal remedies, water therapy and
One cannot claim that homeopathic medicines actually cure these viral conditions since the virus is assumed to remain in the body throughout one's life, though homeopaths find that their patients get significantly less severe bouts of infection or do not get any symptoms for long periods of time. (pronounced o-cill-o-cock-i-num) is a medicine that homeopaths have found particularly effective in treating the flu. Its manufacturer, Boiron Laboratories of Lyon, France, have found that it is 80-90% effective in treating the flu when taken within 48 hours of onset of symptoms.
They combine ease of use with a multi-symptom approach. This is usually the first type of homeopathic treatment that people choose and it is effective in treating most cases of flu. Combination remedies are exactly what they sound like, combinations of several different homeopathic medications. Choosing a Treatment. In order to choose the appropriate homeopathic treatment, a person must know the type of flu virus that he or she has. The flu virus is separated into three different categories: 1  Type A viruses are responsible for the pandemics experienced periodically.
Herbal Cold Remedies Using Thyme. Harness the healing prowess of disinfectant, immunity-boosting thyme with these natural remedies for... Learn about natural, effective remedies for colds and flus: The best herbs, vitamins and simple strategies to stave off winter illnesses this cold and flu season. You can’t very well hold your breath all winter, but you can put your immune system in top-notch form to fight colds and flu by employing a variety of natural methods for hastening recovery and easing symptoms, such as herbal remedies, water therapy and supplements.