1 are built by the assembly of dimers of alpha tubulin and beta tubulin; 2  are found in both animal and plant cells. 3  In plant cells, microtubules are created at many sites scattered through the cell. 4  In animal cells, the microtubules originate at the centrosome. Microtubules. 1  are straight, hollow cylinders whose wall is made up of a ring of 13 protofilaments; 2  have a diameter of about 25 nm; 3  are variable in length but can grow 1000 times as long as they are wide; 4  are built by the assembly of dimers of alpha tubulin and beta tubulin; 5
Tubulin is also used to specifically refer to α-tubulin and β-tubulin, the proteins that make up microtubules in eukaryotic cells. Each has a molecular weight of approximately 50,000 Daltons. Tubulin was long thought to be specific to eukaryotes. The Tubulin/FtsZ family, GTPase domain is an evolutionary conserved protein domain. This GTPase protein domain is found in all tubulin chains, as well as the bacterial FtsZ family of proteins. These proteins are involved in polymer formation.
Microtubules (micro- + tube + -ule) are a component of the cytoskeleton, found throughout the cytoplasm. These tubular polymers of tubulin can grow as long as 50 micrometres and are highly dynamic. The outer diameter of a microtubule is about 24 nm while the inner diameter is about 12 nm. They are found in eukaryotic cells and are formed by the polymerization of a dimer of two globular proteins, alpha and beta tubulin. Microtubules are very important in a number of cellular processes. 
10 most extreme places on Earth. A tubulin is a spherical protein, usually found in eukaryotic cells, that comes in many forms, all of which play vital roles in the structure and function of the cell. The alpha and beta forms of these proteins are the basic building blocks of microtubules, one of the main components of a cell's cytoskeleton. The gamma form of the protein is usually found in a cell organelle known as the centrosome, which is a microtubule organization center(MTOC). Ad. The process of polymerization usually takes place in an MTOC, and involves the alpha and beta protein forms binding to a nucleotide known as guanosine triphosphate (GTP).
In these organelles, several γ-tubulin and other protein molecules are found in complexes known as γ-tubulin ring complexes (γ-TuRCs), which chemically mimic the (+) end of a microtubule and thus allow microtubules to bind. The Tubulin/FtsZ family, GTPase domain is an evolutionary conserved protein domain. This GTPase protein domain is found in all tubulin chains, as well as the bacterial FtsZ family of proteins. These proteins are involved in polymer formation.
Most of the attention devoted to tubulin in rafts has concentrated on α-/β-tubulin. By contrast, a significant amount of γ-tubulin is found in detergent resistant membranes where it has been shown to nucleate microtubule assembly in conjunction with membrane-bound Fyn kinase and PI3 kinase [150] . In PC-12 cells the bulk of the tubulin-bound palmitate is found in the plasma membrane fraction with less in membranes from the endoplasmic reticulum [123] . Palmitoylation is also important for the insertion of tubulin linkers into membranes (see below).
Genes from the alpha, beta and gamma tubulin families are found in all eukaryotes. The alpha and beta tubulins represent the major components of microtubules, while gamma tubulin plays a critical role in the nucleation of microtubule assembly. There are multiple alpha and beta tubulin genes, which are highly conserved among species. This gene encodes alpha tubulin and is highly similar to the mouse and rat Tuba1 genes. Northern blotting studies have shown that the gene expression is predominantly found in morphologically differentiated neurologic cells.
With the identification that tubulin is the colchicine binding protein (K D ∼ 1–3 μM, one site) [11] and [12] , tubulin began to be found nearly everywhere in the cell, especially in association with most, though not all, particulate fractions. In PC-12 cells the bulk of the tubulin-bound palmitate is found in the plasma membrane fraction with less in membranes from the endoplasmic reticulum [123] . Palmitoylation is also important for the insertion of tubulin linkers into membranes (see below).
Microtubules are continuously being assembled and disassembled so that tubulin monomers can be transported elsewhere to build microtubules when needed. Presented in Figure 2 is a digital image of the microtubule network found in an embryonic mouse cell as seen through a fluorescence optical microscope. 
They are composed of α-tubulin and a similar protein called beta-tubulin (β-tubulin) that is produced from a different gene. Microtubules are necessary for cell division and movement. Most cells produce α-tubulin, but the protein is found in highest amounts in the developing brain. During brain development, α-tubulin partners with β-tubulin to form microtubules that move nerve cells (neurons) to their proper location (neuronal migration). The TUBA1A gene provides instructions for making a protein called alpha-tubulin (α-tubulin). This protein is part of the tubulin family of proteins that form and organize structures called microtubules. Microtubules are rigid, hollow fibers that make up the cell's structural framework (the cytoskeleton).