You’ll want a decongestant, like pseudoephedrine or phenylephrine. A decongestant will help reduce nasal tissue swelling. If you’re dealing with allergies or a runny nose, you should look for an antihistamine, like diphenhydramine for nighttime use or non-drowsy fexofenadine. Products containing pseudoephedrine can be found behind your pharmacist’s counter. Rhinitis just means that the mucus membranes inside your nose are inflamed. Your runny nose could be caused by an infection (like a cold or the flu) or by cold weather, allergies, crying, irritating smells, or particles in the air. Before your nose started running, bacteria, allergens or a virus attacked and irritated your nose’s lining, which triggered an inflammatory reaction
A viral infection (the common cold) is the most common cause of a stuffy and/or runny nose, but allergies, influenza, and sinus infections also may cause these symptoms. Less commonly, anatomical obstructions (e.g. a deviated nasal septum, foreign bodies) may lead to nasal congestion. 
Allergies to pollen, spores, mold, and dust (also called hay fever or allergic rhinitis) affect the respiratory system and are usually the most difficult to control. Symptoms of hay fever are sneezing, runny nose, stuffy nose, watery eyes, itchy eyes and nose, and headache. Hay fever is often seasonal (when pollen is in the air), but if constantly exposed to an offending substance (e.g., pet dander), symptoms can last year-round. 
If you are allergic to any of these allergens, you’ve probably developed a runny nose. It can be a pain or just plain painful. With care, you can combat your runny nose, dry out your histamine swollen mucus membranes, and return your nose to normal. Once, you've dealt with your runny nose, you can then take steps to guard yourself from allergies in the future. Ad. Sometimes, they come back inconclusive or will indicate several allergies. The more information you can gather about your allergy, the better. Once you have a general idea of what causes your runny nose, you can start avoiding exposure to those allergens. 2. Avoid triggers. Environmental irritants and allergens like pollen, pet dander and hair, dust, and cigarette smoke can all dry out nasal passages and start the runny nose cycle
Coughing also helps clear your airways of mucus produced due to a cold, allergies, or other diseases, such as the flu. Cold and allergies have many similar symptoms, such as coughing, runny nose, and sneezing. If you have asthma, both conditions can also cause wheezing and shortness of breath. However, colds and allergies are different conditions with distinct causes. Allergies:
Runny nose (rhinorrhea) is a common symptom of allergy, infection, inflammation, or even physical irritation. Runny nose results from discharge secreted by the mucous membranes lining the inside of your nose. It may occur in conditions affecting the nose itself or along with more generalized conditions, such a common cold or hay fever. Inflammation of the nose (rhinitis) is a common cause of runny nose. Other common causes include the common cold (viral respiratory infection), influenza (flu), and sinusitis (inflammation or infection of the sinuses). Inserting objects into your nose can also produce a runny nose
Runny nose (rhinorrhea) is a common symptom of heavy nasal discharges. This symptom can be super heavy in some people. It can be caused by an allergy, infection (e.g., cold or flu), inflammation, or physical irritation. Inflammation of the nose (called rhinitis) is a common cause of the runny nose. Other common causes include the common cold (upper respiratory infection), influenza (flu), and sinusitis (inflammation or infection of the sinuses). The running nose may be accompanied by redness, itching and/or sneezing. If your runny nose is caused by allergic reactions, you need to identify and avoid them. For example, you can test your body reactions to dairy products, if you temporary eliminate all dairy products from your diet (e.g., for 3-4 days).
As the name suggests, antihistamines prevent the body from producing histamines, which cause your nose to run. Antihistamines dry out the mucus membranes in your nasal passages. You can try over-the-counter antihistamines that contain agents such as loratadine or diphenhydramine. Sometimes, they come back inconclusive or will indicate several allergies. The more information you can gather about your allergy, the better. Once you have a general idea of what causes your runny nose, you can start avoiding exposure to those allergens. 2. Avoid triggers. Environmental irritants and allergens like pollen, pet dander and hair, dust, and cigarette smoke can all dry out nasal passages and start the runny nose cycl