Molasses imparts a dark color and strong flavor to baked foods, but is not as sweet as sugar. When substituting molasses for sugar, use 1 1/3 cups molasses for 1 cup sugar, and reduce the amount of liquid in the recipe by 5 tablespoons. Molasses is also more acidic than sugar; add ½ teaspoon baking soda for each cup of molasses used. Other sugars, such as honey, taste sweeter on the tongue than granulated sugar. You can therefore use less honey to sweeten a batch of muffins than you would sugar. Maple syrup tastes less sweet than sugar, but its unique flavor is prized in baked goods and desserts.
Substitution. When substituting SPLENDA ® Sugar Blend for sugar in recipes, use half the amount of SPLENDA ® Sugar Blend as you would sugar. Remember, one-half cup of SPLENDA ® Sugar Blend has the sweetness of 1 cup of sugar. Simply substitute half a cup of SPLENDA® Sugar Blend for every full cup of sugar required in a recipe. You can also use SPLENDA ® Sugar Blend in beverages, on cereal and fruit, and elsewhere you might use sugar.
2. Lower the baking temperature 25 degrees and watch your time carefully since products with honey brown faster. 3. In recipes using more than one cup honey for sugar, it may be necessary to reduce liquids by 1/4 cup per cup of honey. 4. In baked goods, add 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda per cup of honey if baking soda is not already included in the recipe. 
To substitute honey for white sugar in baked goods use 3/4 cup honey for every 1 cup of sugar. Honey adds a lot of moisture to a recipe, so reduce other liquids in the recipe by ½ cup for every 1 cup of honey added. Also, decrease oven temperature by 25 degrees to ensure your baked goods don’t brown too much. Maple Syrup –is a natural sweetener that can be used as a substitute for refined sugar and is high in minerals like zinc and manganese. The only drawback may be it’s high glycemic index, meaning it can cause a spike in blood sugar.
To use pure maple syrup in place of sugar in a baked recipe, use 3/4 cup pure maple syrup for 1 cup of granulated sugar and reduce the dominant liquid in the recipe by 3 tablespoons for each cup of maple syrup used. Using maple syrup in baked goods may cause them to brown more quickly, due to the high sugar content. Maple Syrup –is a natural sweetener that can be used as a substitute for refined sugar and is high in minerals like zinc and manganese. The only drawback may be it’s high glycemic index, meaning it can cause a spike in blood sugar.
You can substitute corn syrup for half of the sugar in the recipe at a ratio of 1 1/2 cups of corn syrup per cup of sugar. As with honey and rice syrup, reduce another liquid by 1/4 cup per cup of sugar you are replacing. You can substitute any of a number of other sweeteners for granulated white sugar in your cake recipe. These substitutes, will give your finished cake a different flavor and texture than it would have had if you had used sugar.
Reduction. When all else fails and you find yourself without enough sugar or any acceptable substitute for baking your cake, you can simply reduce the amount of sugar in the recipe. You can use as little as two-thirds the amount of sugar suggested in your recipe. You can substitute any of a number of other sweeteners for granulated white sugar in your cake recipe. These substitutes, will give your finished cake a different flavor and texture than it would have had if you had used sugar.
1. Substitute 1 cup of sugar for 18 to 24 stevia sweetener packets, 1/3 to 1/2 teaspoon of undiluted stevia powder or 1 teaspoon of a liquid stevia extract. Choose the amount based on how sweet you wish your cake to be. 
Other Sugars. Light brown sugar works as a substitute in some cakes, though you should not use it in white or sponge cakes. Use an equal amount of firmly packed light brown sugar as white sugar in the recipe. Other substitution options include sucanat, date sugar and powdered sugar. You can substitute any of a number of other sweeteners for granulated white sugar in your cake recipe. These substitutes, will give your finished cake a different flavor and texture than it would have had if you had used sugar.