Typically, temperature transmitters isolate, amplify, filter noise, linearize, and convert the input signal from the sensor then send (transmit) a standardized output signal to the control device. Common electrical output signals used in manufacturing plants are 4-20mA or 0-10V DC ranges. 
A temperature transmitter is any remote device that measures  temperature, then transmits the reading(s) to a central base  station where it will be read and/or recorded.  …   Temperature transmitters can be either wired or wireless. 0 degrees = 4mA, 100 degrees = 20mA. A excitation supply will be connected to the transmitter and the 4-20mA will flow in this loop back to the measuring instrument. It is necessary to use the correct type of sensor for the application to get the best accuracy when measuring.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An engine temperature sensor senses engine temperature, just like it's name says, It then sends that information to the computer which then sends appropriate information to the various other sensors and drives of the engine. The engine temperature senses the engine temperature and sends a signal to the computer. This helps the computer to make the fuel richer or leaner. If it malfunctions, you might not know if the engine runs hot or if it is running cold.
In the broadest definition, a sensor is an object whose purpose is to detect events or changes in its environment, and then provide a corresponding output. A sensor is a type of transducer; sensors may provide various types of output, but typically use electrical or optical signals. For example, a thermocouple generates a known voltage (the output) in response to its temperature (the environment). A sensor's sensitivity indicates how much the sensor's output changes when the input quantity being measured changes. For instance, if the mercury in a thermometer moves 1 cm when the temperature changes by 1 °C, the sensitivity is 1 cm/°C (it is basically the slope Dy/Dx assuming a linear characteristic).
A temperature transmitter works by connecting to it some form of temperature sensor. For example a RTD (Resistance temperature device) or Thermocouple. In the case of a RTD connected to the transmitter the transmitter measures a change in resistance of the RTD proportional to the change in temperature measured. The transmitter then derives a current output (generally 4-20mA) which can be measured by an instrument, such as a PLC, loop indicator ect. 0 degrees = 4mA, 100 degrees = 20mA. A excitation supply will be connected to the transmitter and the 4-20mA will flow in this loop back to the measuring instrument. It is necessary to use the correct type of sensor for the application to get the best accuracy when measuring.
Figure 2. A temperature transmitter amplifies and conditions theprimary sensor signal, then carries it over a twisted pair wire to thecontrol room.Figure 1. Sensor extension wires carry low-level (ohm or mV)signals generated by a field-mounted RTD or thermocouple. 