Bill Haley & His Comets is regarded today as one of the first true rock-n-roll bands, innovators who were white musicians bringing rock to a white audience. See You Later Alligator was written by Louisiana songwriter Robert Charles Guidry, who recorded it himself in 1955 under his stage name of Bobby Charles. It was of course the Bill Haley version that took off. Guidry also wrote hits for other performers, most notably Walking To New Orleans for Fats Domino. If you're thinking Get on the bus, gus!, then you have a good clue, Blue! Another song to use this rhyming-jive style is  Fifty Ways To Leave Your Lover .. Also see TV series such as I Love Lucy and other shows from the '50s or set in the '50s.
Lyrics taken from http://www.lyricsmode.com/lyrics/b/bill_haley/see_you_later_alligator.html. If this song really means something special to you, describe your feelings and thoughts. Don't hesitate to explain what songwriters and singer wanted to say. Also we collected some tips and tricks for you: Don't write just I love this song..
He is credited by many with first popularizing this form of music in the early 1950s with his group Bill Haley & His Comets and million-selling hits such as  Rock Around the Clock ,  See You Later, Alligator ,  Shake, Rattle and Roll ,  Rocket 88 ,  Skinny Minnie , and Razzle Dazzle. William John Clifton Bill Haley (/ˈheɪliː/ ; July 6, 1925 – February 9, 1981) was an American rock and roll musician.
His recording was released on Chess Records under the title Later Alligator as 1609 in November, 1955 backed with On Bended Knee. Guidry, a Cajun musician, adopted a New Orleans-influenced blues style for the recording. Dr. Feelgood also recorded a version based on this original in 1986. The song was also recorded by Roy Hall and Otto Bash in 1956. Wayne Gibson with the Dynamic Sounds featuring Jimmy Page on lead guitar released the song as a single in August, 1964. Freddie and the Dreamers also recorded the song in 1964.
See You Later Alligator is track #11 on the album Join the Band. Well, I saw my baby walkin' with another man today. Yes, I saw my baby walkin' with another man today. When I asked her what's the matter. This is what I heard her say. See you later alligator, after 'while crocodile.
The use of the phrase 'See you later alligator' when taking one's leave stemmed from this song. However, according to Brewer's Dictionary of Modern Phrase & Fable, 'alligator' was already a term in the 1950s for a jazz or a swing fan, as someone who 'swallowed up' everything on offer. If you're thinking Get on the bus, gus!, then you have a good clue, Blue! Another song to use this rhyming-jive style is  Fifty Ways To Leave Your Lover .. Also see TV series such as I Love Lucy and other shows from the '50s or set in the '50s.
On Broadway, See You Later Alligator was sung by Robert Britton Lyons, portraying Carl Perkins, in the musical Million Dollar Quartet, which opened in New York in April, 2010. Dr. Feelgood also recorded a version based on this original in 1986. The song was also recorded by Roy Hall and Otto Bash in 1956. Wayne Gibson with the Dynamic Sounds featuring Jimmy Page on lead guitar released the song as a single in August, 1964. Freddie and the Dreamers also recorded the song in 1964.
See You Later, Alligator  is the title of an iconic rock and roll song of the 1950s written and first recorded by Robert Charles Guidry, known as Bobby Charles. The song was a Top Ten hit for Bill Haley and the Comets in 1956 in the U.S. Dr. Feelgood also recorded a version based on this original in 1986. The song was also recorded by Roy Hall and Otto Bash in 1956. Wayne Gibson with the Dynamic Sounds featuring Jimmy Page on lead guitar released the song as a single in August, 1964. Freddie and the Dreamers also recorded the song in 1964.
Originally entitled Later Alligator, the song, based on a 12-bar blues chord structure (141541), was written by Louisiana songwriter Robert Charles Guidry and first recorded by him under his professional name  Bobby Charles  in 1955. Dr. Feelgood also recorded a version based on this original in 1986. The song was also recorded by Roy Hall and Otto Bash in 1956. Wayne Gibson with the Dynamic Sounds featuring Jimmy Page on lead guitar released the song as a single in August, 1964. Freddie and the Dreamers also recorded the song in 1964.