These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. The epicardium is a layer of muscle located on the outside of the heart. A continuous piece of muscle, this tissue performs a protective role, helping hold the other muscles close together. The heart is responsible for pumping blood through the blood vessels, causing it to circulate throughout the body. 
The Epicardium. The epicardium is the layer of muscle found covering the external surfaces of the heart. It is directly fused with the myocardium internally and is in contact with the serous layer of the pericardium. It is sometimes considered as a division of the inner layer of the pericardium. The myocardium is the middle muscular layer of the heart's walls and it functions by providing a scaffolding for the heart chambers, assisting in contraction and relaxation of the cardiac walls so that blood can pass between the chambers and electrostimulation conduction through its own tissues and into the epicardium.
The pericardium (from the Greek περί, around and κάρδιον, heart) is a double-walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels. The pericardial sac has two layers, a serous layer and a fibrous layer. It encloses the pericardial cavity which contains pericardial fluid. The serous pericardium, in turn, is divided into two layers, the parietal pericardium, which is fused to and inseparable from the fibrous pericardium, and the visceral pericardium, which is part of the epicardium.
the outermost of the three layers of tissue that form the heart wall. It is composed of a single sheet of squamous epithelial cells overlying delicate connective tissue. The epicardium is the visceral portion of the serous pericardium and folds back on itself to form the parietal portion of the serous pericardium. Compare myocardium. See also pericardium. epicardial, adj.
The endocardium underlies the much more voluminous myocardium, the muscular tissue responsible for the contraction of the heart. The outer layer of the heart is termed epicardium and the heart is surrounded by a small amount of fluid enclosed by a fibrous sac called the pericardium. The endocardium is the innermost layer of tissue that lines the chambers of the heart. Its cells are embryologically and biologically similar to the endothelial cells that line blood vessels. The endocardium also provides protection to the valves and heart chambers
When the visceral layer comes into contact with heart (not the great vessels) it is known as the epicardium. The epicardium is the layer immediately outside of the heart muscle proper (the myocardium). The epicardium is largely made of connective tissue and functions as a protective layer. The serous pericardium, in turn, is divided into two layers, the parietal pericardium, which is fused to and inseparable from the fibrous pericardium, and the visceral pericardium, which is part of the epicardium.
The myocardium is composed of cardiac muscle and sits between the epicardium and endocardium. The myocardium is responsible for the contractions of the heart, which occur spontaneously, or without stimulation from the nervous system. These contractions allow blood to enter the atria and pump blood out of the ventricles. 
The serous membrane (covering membrane) which, in humans and other vertebrates, forms the wall of the pericardial cavity and holds the heart in place. The pericardium is made of two thin layers of tissue. Immediately surrounding the heart, and attached to it, is the visceral pericardium, or epicardium. The heart can slide easily on the visceral pericardium, thus allowing it to beat freely. The visceral pericardium has an external layer of flat mesothelial cells, which lies on a stroma of fibrocollagenous support tissue. Now, if you pretend that your fist is your heart, the two layers of the football bladder will be like the two layers of the pericardium which surround it. At the top, your wrist will represent the large blood vessels which carry blood to and from the heart.