Abstract. Clinical, immunological, and intestinal studies on 26 children with IgA deficiency in the age range 2 to 16 years are reported. 9 of these children were suffering from autoimmune disease, namely thyroiditis (5), thyrotoxicosis (1), rheumatoid arthritis (2), and probable Sjoegren'sjögren s (syndrome). 1
1 This type of antibody is also found in saliva, tears, and blood. 2  About 10% to 15% of the antibodies present in the body are IgA antibodies. 3  A small number of people do not make IgA antibodies. 4  IgG. 1 IgM. 2  IgM antibodies are the largest antibody. 3  They are found in blood and lymph fluid and are the first type of antibody made in response to an infection. 4  They also cause other immune system cells to destroy foreign substances. 5  IgM antibodies are about 5% to 10% of all the antibodies in the body. 6  IgE.
IgA. Immunoglobulin A (IgA, also referred to as sIgA) is an antibody that plays a critical role in mucosal immunity. More IgA is produced in mucosal linings than all other types of antibody combined; between three and five grams are secreted into the intestinal lumen each day. 
Selective immunoglobulin A deficiency (SIgAD) is a primary immunodeficiency disease and is the most common of the primary antibody deficiencies. IgAD is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4 + and CD8 + T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts. 
Definition of Selective IgA Deficiency. Selective IgA Deficiency is defined as a primary immunodeficiency characterized by an undetectable level of immunoglobulin A (IgA) in the blood and secretions but no other immunoglobulin deficiencies. There are five types (classes) of immunoglobulins or antibodies in the blood: IgG, IgA, IgM, IgD and IgE. Individuals with Selective IgA Deficiency lack IgA, but usually have normal amounts of the other types of immunoglobulins. Selective IgA Deficiency is relatively common in Caucasians. Many affected people have no illness as a result. Others may develop a variety of significant clinical problems.
Immunoglobulin A (IgA) is a blood protein that's part of your immune system. Your body makes IgA in order to fight off infections. IgA is found in mucous membranes, especially in the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts, and in saliva, tears, and breast milk. It appears to play a part in asthma and allergies.
For the signals intelligence activity, see SIGAD. Selective immunoglobulin A (IgA) deficiency (SIgAD) is a genetic immunodeficiency. People with this deficiency lack immunoglobulin A (IgA), a type of antibody that protects against infections of the mucous membranes lining the mouth, airways, and digestive tract.
Background. Idiopathic immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy, or Berger disease, is a worldwide primary glomerulonephritis first described by Berger and Hinglais in 1968, based on the finding of predominant IgA deposition in the mesangium with a mesangial proliferation. 
IgA deficiency is a defect in the immune system characterized by an inadequate amount of the antibody class known as immunoglobulin A (IgA). Antibodies are large proteins produced by the body to fight infections caused by invaders, such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, parasites, and other foreign agents. 