Most cases of retinal detachment begin with a retinal tear. A retinal tear or another eye problem may cause: 1  Floaters in your field of vision. 2  Floaters are thick strands or clumps of solid vitreous gel that develop as the gel ages and breaks down. 3  Floaters often appear as dark specks, globs, strings, or dots. If you have new or sudden flashes or floaters, darkness over part of your visual field, or a new loss of vision that does not go away, call your eye doctor or regular doctor right away. Floaters and flashes may be warning signs of retinal detachment.
Causes of Retinal Detachment. Retinal detachment is the result of vitreous liquid (the fluid inside the eye) leaking through a small hole or tear in the retina. When this occurs, the retina slowly peels away from the adjacent tissue, damaging the blood supply to the retina and preventing it from working properly. Retinal detachment occurs when the retina separates from the tissue and blood vessels located in the back of the eye. Often brought on by a retinal tear, retinal detachment may lead to permanent vision loss or complete blindness if left untreated.
The gradual increase in symptoms often is a sign that the retina is still attached but a tear may be present causing the retina to slowly separate from its underlying tissue. A sudden onset of symptoms may mean that the retina has immediately detached. Retinal detachment occurs when the retina separates from the tissue and blood vessels located in the back of the eye. Often brought on by a retinal tear, retinal detachment may lead to permanent vision loss or complete blindness if left untreated.
In rare cases, a retinal detachment can occur without warning. The first signs may be: 1  A shadow or curtain effect across part of your visual field that does not go away. 2  Because detachments usually affect peripheral (side) vision first, you may not notice a problem until the detachment has gotten bigger. If you have new or sudden flashes or floaters, darkness over part of your visual field, or a new loss of vision that does not go away, call your eye doctor or regular doctor right away. Floaters and flashes may be warning signs of retinal detachment.
Once a retinal detachment occurs, it is usually too late for laser or cryoprobe treatment. That is why it is essential to see a doctor as soon as you experience the symptoms of a retinal tear. In some cases, other surgical procedures can be used to potentially restore vision that is lost due to a retinal detachment. Although it sounds painful, there is actually no discomfort or pain associated with retinal tears and detachments. However, there are several signs that may signal a tear or detachment has occurred or is about to occur: 1  Floaters in your line of sight.
A retinal tear occurs when the tissue tears, allowing fluid to leak out. A retinal detachment occurs when the retina separates from the choroid, cutting off the blood supply to the retina. This usually develops after a retinal tear has already occurred. Although it sounds painful, there is actually no discomfort or pain associated with retinal tears and detachments. However, there are several signs that may signal a tear or detachment has occurred or is about to occur: 1  Floaters in your line of sight.
Symptoms. Although it sounds painful, there is actually no discomfort or pain associated with retinal tears and detachments. However, there are several signs that may signal a tear or detachment has occurred or is about to occur: 1  Floaters in your line of sight.