Acute care hospitals under the Medicaid EHR Incentive Program must: · Have an average length of stay of 25 days or fewer; AND. · have a CMS Certification Number (CCN) correctly identifying them as eligible for the EHR Incentive Programs. 
Obtaining Medicare certification for an ASC involves the following four steps. It is a fairly involved process that should be started as soon as practical to assure that it is completed in a timely manner. CMS establishes requirements, called Conditions for Coverage that ASCs must meet in order to be certified. The requirements cover all aspects of an ASC from operational organization to facility design and patient care. It is important to note that the CFCs must be met for all patients and not just Medicare patients.
The Social Security Act (the Act) mandates the establishment of minimum health and safety and CLIA standards that must be met by providers and suppliers participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These standards are found in the 42 Code of Federal Regulations. The page could not be loaded. The CMS.gov Web site currently does not fully support browsers with “JavaScript” disabled. Please enable “JavaScript” and revisit this page or proceed with browsing CMS.gov
In accordance with the hospital deeming authority granted by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), effective July 15, 2010, Joint Commission will be required to accredit hospitals in accordance with their CMS’ Certification Number (CCN), formerly known as the Medicare Provider Number. A hospital’s CMS’ Certification Number (CCN), is the hospital’s identification number and is linked to its Medicare provider agreement. The CCN is used for CMS certification.
The next step is enrolling in Medicare which can either be completed online via the Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System (PECOS) or by completing the paper 855b form and mailing it to the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) that serves your state. CMS establishes requirements, called Conditions for Coverage that ASCs must meet in order to be certified. The requirements cover all aspects of an ASC from operational organization to facility design and patient care. It is important to note that the CFCs must be met for all patients and not just Medicare patients.
Medicare and Medicaid Certification Requirements and Process. Health care facilities and programs must be certified to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Division of Health Care Facility Licensure and Certification is the CMS State Survey Agency for the following provider programs: 1  Ambulatory Surgical Center (ASC).
Medicare Certification. The first step in Medicare certification is to obtain a National Provider Identifier (NPI) from the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System (NPPES). The fastest way to receive a NPI is to apply via NPPES’s online system. CMS establishes requirements, called Conditions for Coverage that ASCs must meet in order to be certified. The requirements cover all aspects of an ASC from operational organization to facility design and patient care. It is important to note that the CFCs must be met for all patients and not just Medicare patients.
Medicare health plan. Generally, a plan offered by a private company that contracts with Medicare to provide Part A and Part B benefits to people with Medicare who enroll in the plan. Medicare health plans include all Medicare Advantage Plans, Medicare Cost Plans, and Demonstration/Pilot Programs. 
Medicare is a Federal insurance program providing a wide range of benefits for specific periods of time through providers and suppliers participating in the program. The Act designates those providers and suppliers that are subject to Federal health care quality standards. The page could not be loaded. The CMS.gov Web site currently does not fully support browsers with “JavaScript” disabled. Please enable “JavaScript” and revisit this page or proceed with browsing CMS.gov
Glossary Definitions. Agency's initial date of Medicare certification. The date that Medicare officially determined that an agency meets federal requirements to provide home health care. This date may differ from the date that the home health agency was licensed by an official agency within your State. Certified (Certification). State government agencies inspect health care providers, including home health agencies, hospitals, nursing homes, and dialysis facilities, as well as other health care providers. These providers are approved or “certified” if they pass inspection.