Electronic filing: You should have your refund within sixty days. Paper return: It can take up to ninety days to process your return and refund. All refund checks and direct deposits are issued by the State Department of Finance. 1 We will refund any remaining amount to you. 2  You owe other federal or state debts – We may apply your refund to any outstanding federal or state debt. 3  If you did not receive your refund, contact the State Tax Commission (801-297-2200 or 1-800-662-4335) to get the refund check number.
Filing a return through the mail is, of course, the slower of the two processes. For those who mail their federal return, the IRS will remit a tax refund within six weeks after they have been received the completed return. If you file electronically, you should receive your tax refund within three weeks. The IRS allows two options for receiving a federal tax refund: paper check sent via the mail, or an electronic funds transfer (also called a direct deposit). The direct deposit method, not surprisingly, is always the quicker option. 
Confidence votes 262. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check. It will be faster if you select a bank product from a tax service firm, however these tend to be extremely expensive and you will have to have decent credit to qualify
The length of time it takes to get a Louisiana State refund from an  e-filed return can vary. As of February 2014, the state stated  e-filed returns may take around 21 days … for processing. 2 people found this useful. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check.
1 shows “Refund Sent”, the IRS has sent your tax refund to your financial institution for direct deposit. 2  It can take 1 to 5 days for your financial institution to deposit funds into your account. 3  If you requested that your tax refund be mailed, it could take several weeks for your check to arrive. 1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. 2  You will not see a refund date until the IRS finishes processing your tax return and approves your tax refund.
All taxpayers can check the status of their refund money via the Internet or by calling a toll-free hotline. Taxpayers must wait at least 72 hours after an electronic tax filing before they can check their refund status. Individuals who have filed via mail will need to wait at least 3 weeks after making in the form. The refund information system is automated. Verify Tax Refund is Correct. Once a refund is received, taxpayers should check to ensure the amount is correct. If a check or electronic deposit arrives for more than the amount listed on the tax return, the check should not be cashed. A notice will be sent out from the IRS explaining the discrepancy in amount.
If you e-file and you have chosen direct deposit, most people will receive their refund within 5 business days. If you have chosen to receive a paper check you should add 2- … 4 business days for processing. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check.
There are two ways for a taxpayer to get back their federal income tax refund. They can opt to have the refund amount direct deposited into their bank account or they can request a paper check be mailed. The option you choose will affect the amount of time it takes to receive your refund. Verify Tax Refund is Correct. Once a refund is received, taxpayers should check to ensure the amount is correct. If a check or electronic deposit arrives for more than the amount listed on the tax return, the check should not be cashed. A notice will be sent out from the IRS explaining the discrepancy in amount.
If you filed a tax return by mail, your refund will be issued within six weeks from the date the return was received by the IRS, whether or not you opted for a paper check or an electronic deposit. Verify Tax Refund is Correct. Once a refund is received, taxpayers should check to ensure the amount is correct. If a check or electronic deposit arrives for more than the amount listed on the tax return, the check should not be cashed. A notice will be sent out from the IRS explaining the discrepancy in amount.