Perhaps the best benefit of microdermabrasion is the deep cleaning of pores. After the dead skin is removed from the skin, oils and dirt are literally sucked out. Pores that have been held open by this debris stay large for a while, then shrink down. Microdermabrasion is basically a high-tech facial. It cleans the skin and decreases acne in adults and adolescents. It allows creams and peels to penetrate more effectively. When the skin is pretreated with microdermabrasion, a 35% glycolic acid peel penetrates like a 70% peel. The result is dramatic. 
Microdermabrasion is a skin care technique that removes uneven outer layer of the skin, vacuuming the dead cells, leaving behind a smoother texture that promotes growth of healthy newer cells. The Microdermabrasion treatment helps to thicken skin collagen. Collagen is a protein in the skin that makes the skin taut and smooth resulting in younger looking complexion. It is abundant in children. With the advancement of age the amount of collagen decreases making skill look dull and uneven.
Microdermabrasion Treatment involves using oxide micro crystals that gently sandblasts your skin leaving it renewed, healthy and glowing. It also stimulates collagen production, helping your skin to rejuvenate faster than normal. Microdermabrasion is a mechanical exfoliation treatment that treats the uppermost layer of dead skin cells from face, chest or hands. It is an effective, non-surgical way to treat acne, wrinkles or uneven skin tones by ex-foliating the top layers of skin using a non-surgical and un-invasive treatment.
Microdermabrasion uses a minimally abrasive instrument—either microparticles or a diamond-tipped wand—to gently buff the skin, removing the topmost layer. A vacuum then sucks up the exfoliated skin cells. Altogether, the process helps boost collagen production. 
According to Wikipedia, Microdermabrasion is. …also referred to as mechanical exfoliation or micro-resurfacing, microdermabrasion is a method for facial rejuvenation that uses a mechanical medium for exfoliation along with adjustable suction to remove away the outermost layer of dead skin cells from the epidermis. The tube also vacuums back dead skin cells and used micro crystals. The crystal flow starts as soon as the microderm abrasion wand touches your skin. The doctor slowly moves the wand across your entire face and not just on treated areas, so that you don’t experience inconsistence in skin texture or color.
A: Microdermabrasion is an effective, non-surgical way to get rid of fine wrinkles and sunspots by exfoliating the top layers of the skin. No chemicals or laser beams are used, only aluminum oxide micro crystals that gently sandblast your skin, leaving it smooth and fresh. 
Microdermabsion is a cosmetic procedure performed on the skin where the outer layer of the skin is removed by exfoliation to reveal the inner layers of the skin, leaving the skin looking vibrant and healthy. The Microdermabrasion treatment helps to thicken skin collagen. Collagen is a protein in the skin that makes the skin taut and smooth resulting in younger looking complexion. It is abundant in children. With the advancement of age the amount of collagen decreases making skill look dull and uneven.
The skin is first cleansed with special cleansing gel.A Handheld device is then used.Microdermabrasion with diamond tips abrades the dead skin cells, leaving skin clean and smooth. Dermabrasion treatment is a mechanical procedure that uses a power driver handheld device to remove the outer layers of the skin. The Microdermabrasion treatment helps to thicken skin collagen. Collagen is a protein in the skin that makes the skin taut and smooth resulting in younger looking complexion. It is abundant in children. With the advancement of age the amount of collagen decreases making skill look dull and uneven.
Microdermabrasion is basically a cosmetic procedure to make the skin radiant while dermabrasion is a surgical procedure to remove deep scars and other imperfections on the skin. The Microdermabrasion treatment helps to thicken skin collagen. Collagen is a protein in the skin that makes the skin taut and smooth resulting in younger looking complexion. It is abundant in children. With the advancement of age the amount of collagen decreases making skill look dull and uneven.
Microdermabrasion is a form of mechanical skin exfoliation – it works by using a hand held wand that is tipped with crystals or diamond chips to create a sandblasting effect on the skin. This takes off the top layer (Stratum Corneum) of the skin and its dead skin cells. 