With a name like Hercules, you know he's got to be big. But at 922 pounds, big is an understatement for the world's largest living cat, according to the 2014 Guinness Book of World Records. Hercules is a liger -- the hybrid offspring of a male lion and a tigress -- who lives at the Myrtle Beach Safari wildlife preserve in South Carolina. He is 131 inches long, and measures 49 inches tall at the shoulder.
The tiger, the largest and heaviest living species of the cat family. The terms big cat and great cat, while not a biological classification, are used informally to distinguish the larger felid species from smaller ones. A narrower definition of includes five members of the genus Panthera: the tiger, lion, jaguar, leopard, and snow leopard. Only members of this genus are able to roar.
So in the wild the largest cat is the Amur or Siberian tiger. The Siberian tiger is the largest species of cat in the world being 3.70 m long and weighing 350 kg. But the liger is not called a species but is a mixture of lion and tiger their 14 ft long and weigh 410 kg. The largest naturally occuring big cat is the Siberian Tiger. Males have been recorded to be 3.2 meters in body length, excluding the tail. He/she weighs about 87I lb. The Lion is the second largest cat. The Liger, the offspring of a male Lion & and a female Tiger is bigger. But Ligers are usually not counted, as it's an unaturally occuring hybrid, created by human intervention and not available in the wild
This cat is not a “breed” but a species. It is not the largest domestic cat breed but is one of the largest domestic cats when tamed. Photo is of Martin Stucki with a tame breeding serval at A1 Savannahs, OK, USA. See tame and socialised serval cat as well.
Smallest Cat In The World. The Siberian tiger is rated is the largest cat in the world though some believe that Liger is greatest. The Latin name of this largest cat breed in the world is Pathera. The average weight of male Siberian tiger is about 900 pounds (408 kg). Siberian Tigers are found in Northeastern China, Korea, Russia, India and Pakistan. Largest cat ever recorded is the magnificent leisure cat Hercules who also holds the record Guinness Book of World Records for largest cat, Hercules from London weighs 900 pounds (408kg) and is 6 feet tall and 12 feet long. This amazing creature is born from tiger mother and lion father
In particular it is the Siberian (or Amur) tiger that is the biggest of them all. Weighing in at up to 3ooKg (660 lbs) and measuring up to 4m (13ft) in length this is one big cat. Just to put that in perspective, that’s about as long as a family car and the weight of three grown men. 