A: According to the Texas Workforce Commission, all workers need to be at over the age of 14 to legally work in Texas. However, Texas Child Labor Laws include all workers under the age of 18.
Each rental car company sets its own minimum age requirement, but 21 years old is common for renting a car in Texas and other states. Drivers who are under 25 years old may be required to pay additional fees.
Quick Answer. The minimum age to get a job at McDonald's depends on the position, but for entry-level jobs an individual must be at least 15. In order to apply for a management position at McDonald's, a person must be at least 18 years of age.
A: The minimum age to get a job at McDonald's depends on the position, but for entry-level jobs an individual must be at least 15. In order to apply for a management position at McDonald's, a person must be at least 18 years of age.
One of the biggest questions held by young people looking to enter the workforce is, “How old do I have to be to work?” The minimum working age not only varies by franchise and by corporation but often varies by state, as well. Job seekers typically face age restrictions up until the age of 21 or 22. Many entry-level positions require young workers to stand at least 16 in order to gain employment, while others require applicants to be at least 18 years old upon hire.
A manager override is required. To work in the pharmacy is 18. And at 16 you CAN work in the photo lab, but you can't deal with or touch the chemicals. When machines need refilling, somebody of legal age and OSHA certified has to do it for you.
If you are 14 to 18 years old, you may work at a street trade, such as selling or distributing newspapers or periodicals or shining shoes. You may work for four hours between 6 AM and 7 PM on any day when school is in session and five hours a day on any day when school is not in session.
Specific laws bar or allow people of certain ages to work specific jobs. 16 years old is the minimum age to get most jobs. Employers can hire people under 16 years old in certain circumstances, but in other circumstances, employers cannot hire people under 18 years old. The list of exceptions is long.