There is a little confusion surrounding the different types of coconut palm. This is mainly because there are many types of coconut palm but only one species of the coconut plant: that is the Cocos nucifera. This is the only palm that produces coconuts. That is incredible considering there are around 2,600 species of palm in the world. This makes the coconut very special. And so to reiterate: there is only one species of coconut palm, but there are many types of coconut. Sources: 1) http://www.wisegeek.com/what-are-the-different-kinds-of-coconuts.htm. 2) Bee F. Gunn, Luc Baudouin, Kenneth M. Olsen. Independent Origins of Cultivated Coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) in the Old World Tropics.
there are a few different types of coconuts, there is really only one coconut plant. The coconut palm is the only type of palm tree that produces coconuts. hoped this helped. xx. There is only one type of coconut plant. The reason they may appear different or taste different is because the plant may be at different points of maturity. In the plan … t's youthful stage the hollow has water and at maturity the hollow is filled with milk
Making the world better, one answer at a time. There is only one type of coconut plant. The reason they may appear different or taste different is because the plant may be at different points of maturity. In the plant's youthful stage the hollow has water and at maturity the hollow is filled with milk. 
All In The Passion Fruit House. There are two types of coconut trees. A three year coconut trees and six year coconut trees. The six year coconut tree, which produces fruit in about six years, is slower growing and is less common. Also, there are two different colors of coconuts. There is the green variety and then there is the red/orange type. Now on Guam there are about seven different
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. While to the consumer it may seem that there are a few different types of coconuts, there is really only one species of coconut plant. The coconut palm, Cocos nucifera, is the only type of palm tree that produces coconuts. Within this species, however, there are dozens of different varieties of coconuts. 
While there are more than 150 types of coconut palm trees, there are a few that dominate the landscape. This is a result of both natural adaptation and hybrids created by humans. Comments. Submit. While there are more than 150 types of coconut palm trees, there are a few that dominate the landscape. This is a result of both natural adaptation and hybrids created by humans. The most popular coconut palm trees, of course, are those that produce both large quantities and produce them quickly.
Types of Coconut Oil. Yes, there are many types of coconut oil and no, they're definitely not all the same so it's important you know the difference before you buy. Basically, the first characteristic of virgin coconut oil (unrefined) is that it is produced from freshly harvested coconut meat