• Ureter propels urine from kidneys to the urinary bladder, while urethra passes urine from the urinary bladder to exterior. • In males urethra is considered as a part of both the reproductive and urinary system, whereas ureter is considered as a part of the urinary system. • Normally, ureter is longer than urethra, but urethra has a larger diameter than ureters.
The urethra is the tube in the urinary system that allows urine to be excreted from the bladder to the outside of the body. The small outside opening (meatus) from the urethra … in a woman is located between the clitoris and the slightly larger opening to the vagina. The urethra exits the bladder and takes urine out of the body, in males it is approximatly 20 cm long, females 3-4 cm long. Ureter is the (tube) flow channel from kidney to bladder, Urethra is the (tube) flow channel from the bladder to the outside of your body.
If you are talking about Ureters and the Urethra of the urinary system, the ureters are the ducts that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. The urethra on the other ha … nd is a tube that carries urine from the urinary bladder to the outside of the body. The urethra exits the bladder and takes urine out of the body, in males it is approximatly 20 cm long, females 3-4 cm long. Ureter is the (tube) flow channel from kidney to bladder, Urethra is the (tube) flow channel from the bladder to the outside of your body.
The urinary system is basically made up of kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. The main function of this system is the process of excretion. It excretes the waste products of metabolisms and other materials in the form of urine. • In males urethra is considered as a part of both the reproductive and urinary system, whereas ureter is considered as a part of the urinary system. • Normally, ureter is longer than urethra, but urethra has a larger diameter than ureters.
Both urethra and ureters are fibromusclular tubes that conduct urine in the urinary system. Ureter. Ureters are fibromuscluar tubes that propel urine from kidneys to the urinary bladder. The smooth muscles can make involuntary wave like contractions and propel urine towards the urinary bladder. This series of organized muscle contraction is known as peristalsis. • In males urethra is considered as a part of both the reproductive and urinary system, whereas ureter is considered as a part of the urinary system. • Normally, ureter is longer than urethra, but urethra has a larger diameter than ureters.
Answer by Ktawso2011. Confidence votes 124. If you are talking about Ureters and the Urethra of the urinary system, the ureters are the ducts that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. The urethra on the other hand is a tube that carries urine from the urinary bladder to the outside of the body. In addition to this ureters are two in number and there is only one urethra. the urethra in males has two functions; for ejaculation of sperm to the female vagina and also used for the urination/urine outlet. Both carry urine to other places, as the ureter carries urine from  the kidneys to the urinary bladder and the urethra carries urine  from the bladder to the outside of the … body. 1 person found this useful.
The ureters are the tubes that drain the urine from the kidneys into the bla … dder. Once the urine is in the bladder, it must pass through the urethra, which is a single tube running from the base of the urinary bladder to the outside of the body for elimination. Both carry urine to other places, as the ureter carries urine from  the kidneys to the urinary bladder and the urethra carries urine  from the bladder to the outside of the … body. 1 person found this useful.
Answer by Jessieleeculhane. Confidence votes 13. Ureters go from the pelvis of the kidney into the urinary bladder. From the urinary bladder, the urethra is the tube that carries the urine to the outside the ureters are tubes that exit the kidneys at the Hilus, coveying urine into the bladder, approximatly 25cm long. The urethra exits the bladder and takes urine out of the body, in males it is approximatly 20 cm long, females 3-4 cm long. Ureter is the (tube) flow channel from kidney to bladder, Urethra is the (tube) flow channel from the bladder to the outside of your body.
1 Answer 1. active oldest votes. up vote 5 down vote accepted. The ureters run from the kidneys to the bladder whilst the urethra runs from the bladder to exit the body: The renal papillae are the site where urine drains into one of the minor calyxes of the kidney. Multiple minor calyxes join together into a major calyx, and multiple major calyxes join together to form the renal pelvis which then drains into the ureter. share | improve this answer. answered Jul 25 '13 at 11:00.
Ureters go from the pelvis of the kidney into the urinary bladder. From the urinary bladder, the urethra is the tube that carries the urine to the outside   the ureters are … tubes that exit the kidneys at the Hilus, coveying urine into the bladder, approximatly 25cm long. Both carry urine to other places, as the ureter carries urine from  the kidneys to the urinary bladder and the urethra carries urine  from the bladder to the outside of the … body. 1 person found this useful.