Background. Selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) is used primarily to treat children with lower-extremity spasticity, also known as spastic diplegia or diparesis. The primary goal of SDR is to reduce spasticity and to improve lower-extremity function
Definition of Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy Surgery. Selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) surgery is a procedure that treats muscle spasticity caused by abnormal communication among the brain, spinal cord, nerves and muscles. Spasticity most commonly affects patients who have cerebral palsy. Preparing for Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy Surgery. SDR surgery involves a three-to four-hour surgical procedure and several weeks of inpatient rehabilitation. Once we’ve determined that a patient is a good candidate for surgery, we help families plan a convenient time for surgery and
Selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) is a surgery done on the lower spinal cord to reduce spasticity (high muscle tone) in the legs. Certain abnormal nerve fibers that cause high muscle tone are cut. Neurosurgeon Dr. Samuel Browd describes how the selective dorsal rhizotomy surgery is done at Seattle Children's. Parent Christine Laddusaw shares what the experience was like for her and her daughter, Arabelle. (Part three of a five-part series.).
Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy is the name professionals use to describe the surgical procedure where the conus, located in the lower back is exposed and nerves are severed. The result is that the symptoms of a child's spasticity (rigidity) are reduced and benefits are numerous. 
Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy (SDR) is a surgery performed on certain children with cerebral palsy and spasticity. The purpose of the surgery is to reduce leg muscle stiffness and spasticity in these children. Reduced spasticity can improve or create the ability to walk for some children. 
The selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s; in this surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed. This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy (SDR) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief; for those procedures, which have begun to take the name rhizotomy in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy and similar.
Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy. Guide. Selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) is the most common nerve surgery for symptoms related to cerebral palsy (CP). During SDR, a surgeon cuts the skin over the lower part of the spinal cord. The surgeon then finds and cuts the nerves in the cord that are causing muscle tightness in the legs. 