While manual transmissions make use of the clutch to change gears, automatic transmissions rely on a complicated hydraulic system for shifting, and the transmission solenoid is especially important for this process. As you can guess, the transmission solenoid is a required component of a functioning transmission, and any solenoid that starts malfunctioning only spells trouble. So today we’ll explain its function, common problems that can occur, and everything you need to know about replacement here.
Changing a transmission solenoid is a common repair on an automatic transmission. To control gear shifting, transmission solenoids direct transmission fluid to servo valves. In most cars and trucks, the transmission system has a fixed number of gears that can be used at various speeds. A solenoid valve, such as a transmission solenoid, generally has nine parts: the valve body, an inlet port, an outlet port, the solenoid coil body, the coil winding, lead wires, a plunger or piston, a spring, and an orifice.
A transmission solenoid is an electromechanical valve that controls the flow of transmission fluid into and through an automatic transmission. In modern transmissions, a transmission solenoid typically comes in a pack installed in a transmission control unit, transmission control module, or transmission valve body. Transmission solenoids are powered by a voltage or current the supply of which is controlled by the transmission controller or computer. A solenoid valve, such as a transmission solenoid, generally has nine parts: the valve body, an inlet port, an outlet port, the solenoid coil body, the coil winding, lead wires, a plunger or piston, a spring, and an orifice.
The Delphi Automatic Transmission Solenoid controls the flow of transmission fluid into and through the automatic transmission. The Automatic Transmission Solenoid is an electromechanical valve that controls the flow of transmission fluid into and through the automatic transmission. A voltage or current, the supply of which is controlled by the transmission controller or computer, powers the transmission solenoids. The Dorman Automatic Transmission Solenoid controls the flow of transmission fluid into and through the automatic transmission. The Automatic Transmission Solenoid typically comes in a pack installed in a transmission control unit, transmission control module, or transmission valve body.
An automatic transmission solenoid is simply a solenoid. A solenoid is an electrical device that opens and closes by getting a command from the computer in your car. Of course the computer gets many signals from other inputs all over the car, in order to make a decision. 
A transmission solenoid is an electro-hydraulic valve that controls fluid flow into and throughout an automatic transmission. Solenoids can be normally open or normally closed. Transmission solenoids are usually installed in a transmission valve body, transmission control unit or transmission control module.
Transmission fluid is directed throughout the valve body by various transmission solenoids– such as the transmission shift solenoid, lockup solenoid, or transmission control solenoid (there’s also a torque converter clutch solenoid) –that either open or close hydraulic valves to regulate fluid flow. As you can guess, the transmission solenoid is a required component of a functioning transmission, and any solenoid that starts malfunctioning only spells trouble. So today we’ll explain its function, common problems that can occur, and everything you need to know about replacement here.
Your transmission shift solenoids mount on the transmission valve body that controls fluid flow through the various circuits and passages in the transmission. 
If the transmission solenoid is energized, the plunger opens and allows fluid to pass while a solenoid that is not receiving power is closed in its normal position. So while the various engine sensors determine when the gears should shift, it is the job of the transmission solenoid to act out the actual shifting. As you can guess, the transmission solenoid is a required component of a functioning transmission, and any solenoid that starts malfunctioning only spells trouble. So today we’ll explain its function, common problems that can occur, and everything you need to know about replacement here.