Liv and Maddie is an American teen sitcom created by John D. Beck and Ron Hart and produced by It's a Laugh Productions for Disney Channel. The series stars Dove Cameron in a dual role as identical twins with entirely different personalities. Liv Rooney is a girly girl who was an actress in Hollywood for four years. On January 13, 2014, Disney Channel renewed Liv and Maddie for a 13-episode second season slated to premiere in fall 2014. The second season was later expanded to 24 episodes. The first season ended on July 27, 2014, and the second season premiered on September 21, 2014.
This particluar Liv has NOTHING to do with the name Olivia. Liv Tyler was named after Liv Ullman-a Swedish actress-and the fact that so many people now think it is pronounced live because of her makes it somewhat hopeless for me to succeed in convincing you, I suppose. I personally think it is a beautiful name. Some people think that Liv should be short for Olivia, but I don't. It's the name of a girl who is alive. It reminds me of a girl who is free and lives every day like it's her last.
Liv /liv/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced liv, leev. It is of Old Norse origin, and the meaning of Liv is defense. Also short form of Olivia. Made familiar by actress Liv Ullman. Actress Liv Tyler. Charted below is the baby name popularity of Liv for girls. Liv was first listed in 2011 and reached its top rank of #780 in the U.S. in the year 2014.
Liv is a rare first name for females but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#56979 out of 150436, Top 38%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Liv for girls. Liv was first listed in 2011 and reached its top rank of #780 in the U.S. in the year 2014.
I love the name Liv! It should be pronounced (Live) not like live television but more like living without the ing. I personally think it is a beautiful name. Some people think that Liv should be short for Olivia, but I don't. It's the name of a girl who is alive. It reminds me of a girl who is free and lives every day like it's her last. Liv is one of my favorite names
Liv Tyler was given the name after her mother, Bebe Buell, saw an image of Norwegian actress Liv Ullmann on the cover of TV Guide shortly before her daughter's birth. Hello, Guest. The fame of actress and Aerosmith daughter Liv Tyler helped to infuse life into this short but solid Scandinavian name that was chosen for her daughter by Julianne Moore. It was on the rise in 2014, gaining 150 spots since 2013 and 270 spots since 2012
Comments and insights on the name Liv: | Edit. Because of the popularity of Olivia people often think Liv is a nickname today, but it's also a traditional Scandinavian given name. Meanings and history of the name Liv: | Edit. Related to Lif, a figure from Norse mythology. The name comes from the Old Norse Hlif, hlíf meaning.. Protection in Modern, Norwegian, swedish And danish it is a homophone with the word liv which means.. life
The word which this name comes from Liv. Try to have respect for the origins of a name, including the correct pronunciation-not just the one you prefer, and not just because some actress is pronouncing it that way-i.e. the wrong way. I personally think it is a beautiful name. Some people think that Liv should be short for Olivia, but I don't. It's the name of a girl who is alive. It reminds me of a girl who is free and lives every day like it's her last.
More info about the name Liv. Liv is a short form of Olivia. Olivia originates in Latin language and means olive. It was used for the first time by Shakespeare in his play Twelfth Night. He probably derived the name from the masculine Oliver, or simply the word 'olive'. 