Chlorella is comprised of a fibrous, indigestible outer shell (20%) and its inner nutrients (80%). It is the fibrous material that has been proven to actually bind with heavy metals and pesticides like PCBs, that can accumulate in our bodies. While effective in removing mercury-Chlorella will not do the same for iron. Chlorella contains iron and will actually raise iron levels. Iron is potentially toxic because the human body has a limited capacity to excrete iron-causing it to build up in the body.
Overview. According to the American Cancer Society, chlorella (sun chlorella, green algae) is a single-celled freshwater alga that has an abundance of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll gives leafy vegetables their green color. Chlorella is commonly used in Japan to treat a number of medical conditions. 
Yaeyama Chlorella is therefore very suitable for people suffering from constipation. A difficult stool or constipation can be caused by not eating enough fiber-rich foods such as grains, fruits and vegetables, too little physical exercise, or by not drinking enough water. The indigestible fiber in Yaeyama Chlorella ensures that digesting food in the intestines can be pushed forward more easily. Yaeyama Chlorella also contains enzymes that have a beneficial influence on the microbial composition in the intestines.
One other thing to be aware of when using chlorella is that this green algae does contain large concentrations of iron. Iron levels in women should not be a problem due to the loss of iron related to the menstrual cycle, but for men, or postmenopausal women, excessive iron can become a problem. 
Chlorella may also increase the amount of healthy bacteria in your intestines. Healthy bacteria help prevent stomach upset, diarrhea, and other symptoms. Chlorella has been used to try to treat gastrointestinal disorders, including: 1  Constipation. 2  Diverticulitis. 3  Inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's and ulcerative colitis). 4  Stomach ulcer
Chlorella, algae, is a green food, full of a balance of nature made nutrients. On top of that it acts as a sponge to absorb toxins. Wow, nutrition and detox in one simple food. Chlorella comes in powder, tablet or capsule form depending on the manufacturer. Chlorella – Your Friend in Detoxification. Chlorella may be your best friend in your detoxification process. Interest in detoxifying the body grows daily. That’s great. Finally people realize the toxic accumulation in their bodies and want to do something about.
Occasionally someone else will have constipation with chlorella. I think constipation occurs because chlorella is pulling toxins out through the bowel (a good thing). Those toxins make the bowel sluggish. Take enough magnesium to get your bowels moving 2 to 3 times a day so you can keep taking the chlorella. (Review the simple colon cleanse again to keep those bowels moving!). Chlorella – Your Friend in Detoxification. Chlorella may be your best friend in your detoxification process. Interest in detoxifying the body grows daily. That’s great. Finally people realize the toxic accumulation in their bodies and want to do something about.
Chlorella is a green alga that is very well known for its powerful detoxifying power for the body. It is exceptionally rich in chlorophyll, but also in vitamins, minerals and trace elements. Chlorella is safe to take, however it can lead to increased bowel movements and diarrhea. It is thus recommended to reduce dosage, then increase very gradually. On the other hand, if bowel movements are less frequent, dosage can be increased.
Overview. Chlorella and spirulina are both types of algae that are commonly marketed as supplements. Chlorella is a form of green algae, and spirulina is a type of blue-green algae. Chlorella is a rich source of chlorophyll, and spirulina provides a variety of proteins, vitamins and minerals. 