For an average size tuber, plant 12-15 inches apart. And if you want big, storage potatoes plant them 18-24 inches apart. Plant potatoes in a trench 10-12 inches deep and cover with 2-4 inches of soil. As the plants grow taller, you gradually fill in the trench with soil around the plant. On average, each plant will produce 2-4 pounds of potatoes. If the plants are spaced far apart, you will get bigger tubers but fewer of them. However, if the plants are spaced close together, you will get a greater number of smaller sized tubers. For new potatoes, you can plant as close as 8-10
Dad planted his potatoes 18 inches apart in rows 3 to 4 feet apart You can plant them closer but you will get small potatoes. We also started hilling the plants as soon as they got two to three inches high. Don’t plant any other vegetables near the potatoes by at least 3 to 4 feet. Growing Instructions. Once the plants begin to grow, about 12 inches above the soil, you should “hill up” the earth to cover them by another 4 inches. You’ll likely be covering up some healthy green leaves, and that’s fine.
Put your seed potatoes about four inches deep. Potatoes should be planted in rows about 12 inches apart and at a depth of about 4 inches. Build up the soil along the rows, forming a mound. Potatoes should be far enough apart that they shouldn't run into each other underground as they grow. 
Potatoes can be a fun and easy crop to grow. Field growing: This is the conventional way most potatoes are grown. Generally, the seed potatoes are planted about 12 inches apart in rows that are spaced 2 to 3 feet apart. The seed pieces' are planted about 1 inch deep, then covered with additional soil as the sprouts develop. Straw: For centuries, Scandinavians have grown potatoes in stacks of straw or other mulching material
Potato Spacing. Seed potatoes require loose, moist soil, but should never be planted where water puddles. Plant individual seed potatoes 1 to 1 1/2 feet apart in rows. Many gardeners build mounded rows for planting to ensure good drainage around the potatoes. Row Spacing. Potatoes are a successful crop, so many gardeners plant row after row of seed potatoes. Rows should be spaced at 2 to 3 feet, to give the vining plants plenty of room to grow and expand.
Planting Seed Potatoes. You can plant seed potatoes as soon as the ground can be worked in the spring, making sure to choose a sunny location. The tubers need room to grow, so plant them about 3 inches deep and 12 inches apart within the rows, leaving about 3 feet of space between the rows. When planting, you should make sure the soil is moist. If you want a late season crop, you can plant seed potatoes in mid-June to have potatoes all winter
Trenches should be between 2-3 feet apart and then covered with soil. The planting depth of potatoes starts at 4 inches deep and then as the potato plants grow, you gradually create a “hill” around the plants with loosely hoed soil up to the base of the plant. Repeat in 2-3 weeks.
Plant two seed potatoes, whole or halved, about 2 inches deep. Once the potatoes have developed 3 or 4 inches of foliage growth, a second tire can be put on top of the first, Fill in with more soil, always leaving at least 2 inches of leaf growth above the soil level. Continue to fill as the plants grow. Field growing: This is the conventional way most potatoes are grown. Generally, the seed potatoes are planted about 12 inches apart in rows that are spaced 2 to 3 feet apart. The seed pieces' are planted about 1 inch deep, then covered with additional soil as the sprouts develop.