How to Quickly Increase Potassium Levels in the Body Photo Credit Jeanne Studio/Demand Media. Low potassium levels cause a variety of health problems such as leg cramps. Leg cramps occur when the muscles in your legs contract involuntarily. In fact, leg cramps are one of the first signs of low potassium levels. Eat a banana or two if you find yourself having leg cramps associated with low potassium levels. The potassium in bananas increases your levels quickly, which will cause the cramps to subside. However, for continued normal levels of potassium, consider increasing your daily consumption of fruits by one to two serving
Method 1 of 3: Ensuring You Balance Your Levels of Potassium. 1. Look for symptoms of low potassium levels. Having either too much or too little potassium in your blood can lead to health complications. Having a low level of potassium in your blood is called hypokalemia. Effects of hypokalemia can include weak muscles, an abnormal heart rhythm, and a slight rise in blood pressure. See your doctor. If you suspect that you have low levels of potassium, then you should see your doctor before turning to supplements or other methods of boosting your potassium intake. When straying from a standard diet, you can easily overdo it and end up with too much potassium in your diet.
How to Bring Potassium Levels Up. Foods are the safest way to increase your potassium levels. Not getting enough potassium in your diet can have health consequences, since potassium helps counteract the effect of sodium on your blood pressure. Potassium also plays a role in heart and muscle function, transmitting signals from nerves, and metabolism. 
Extremely low levels of potassium, a condition called hypokalemia, can be life-threatening and is usually caused by medications or other medical conditions rather than diet. Even slightly low levels, however, can lead to problems such as high blood pressure. Consider salt substitutes that contain potassium chloride. In addition to raising potassium levels, this also will help lower sodium levels, which can help with problems such as high blood pressure. If taking diuretics, ask your doctor whether you should switch to a potassium-sparing diuretic
Potassium supplements can be taken to replace losses. Potassium is a mineral and electrolyte that serves critical biological, metabolic and chemical functions in the body. Digestion, absorption and proper regulation of the heart, nerves, kidneys and digestive organs require potassium. Higher levels of toxicity cause muscle weakness, stomach pain, abnormal heartbeat, chest pain and eventually cardiac arrest. High-potassium diets rarely cause hyperkalemia because the kidney excretes the excess in the urine.
Step 2. Add more fruit to your diet. High fruit sources of potassium include avocados, bananas, cantaloupe, honeydew, mangos, papayas, oranges, apricots, kiwis and raisins. There are many creative ways to add fruit to your diet. Add fresh or dried fruit to hot or cold cereal, yogurt and cottage cheese. Step 3. Add more vegetables to your diet. High vegetable sources of potassium include tomatoes, potatoes, squash, spinach, green leafy vegetables, brussels sprouts, and pumpkin. Try to have a vegetable with each meal and snack. Make a spinach, tomato and cheese omelet in the morning
Low potassium levels can be detected through a blood test and corrected by a high-potassium diet or supplementation. The quickest way to increase potassium levels is through pharmacological preparations. Supplements come in liquid, powder, tablets and extended-release capsules and should be taken with a full glass of water or juice. Higher levels of toxicity cause muscle weakness, stomach pain, abnormal heartbeat, chest pain and eventually cardiac arrest. High-potassium diets rarely cause hyperkalemia because the kidney excretes the excess in the urine.