The hiatus is an opening in the diaphragm -- the muscular wall separating the chest cavity from the abdomen. Normally, the esophagus (food pipe) goes through the hiatus and attaches to the stomach. In a hiatal hernia (also called hiatus hernia) the stomach bulges up into the chest through that opening. There are two main types of hiatal hernias: sliding and paraesophageal (next to the esophagus). In a sliding hiatal hernia, the stomach and the section of the esophagus that joins the stomach slide up into the chest through the hiatus. This is the more common type of hernia.
Hiatal Hernia (Definition). Hiatal hernia is a medical condition in which the stomach protrudes up into the chest through an opening in the diaphragm, which is the muscle lining the bottom of your lungs that control your breathing. Symptoms include heartburn, chest pain, and shortness of breath. ...Read more.
1 Anything that presses on the stomach can aggravate hiatal hernia symptoms. 2  When your stomach is full, avoid bending over or lying down. 3  This increases abdominal pressure and makes heartburn more likely. 4  Do not bend over or lie down for two to three hours after eating.
To help prevent symptoms of a hiatal hernia 1  : Wear loose clothing. 2  Anything that presses on the stomach can aggravate hiatal hernia symptoms. 3  When your stomach is full, avoid bending over or lying down. 4  This increases abdominal pressure and makes heartburn more likely.
Hiatal hernia is a medical condition in which the stomach protrudes up into the chest through an opening in the diaphragm, which is the muscle lining the bottom of your lungs that control your breathing. Symptoms include heartburn, chest pain, and shortness of breath.
A hiatus hernia happens when part of the stomach squeezes through an opening in the diaphragm, called the hiatus, and into the chest. This is also known as a hiatal hernia. Hiatus hernia is thought to affect around a third of over 50s at some stage.
To help prevent symptoms of a hiatal hernia 1  : Wear loose clothing. 2  When your stomach is full, avoid bending over or lying down. 3  Do not bend over or lie down for two to three hours after eating.