Simply stating Not a valid URL form or what ever it was and not pointing at the field in question is not good enough. sanibelaccom1 2012-05-21 20:51:32 UTC #8. I added http:// to my website and it still gave me not a valid url format. I'm getting an error trying to define my URL. I get a message that the URL is not a valid URL. I haven't made a typo since I copied and pasted it and it is valid.
A Uniform Resource Locator (URL) (commonly informally referred to as a web address, although the term is not defined identically) is a reference to a web resource that specifies its location on a computer network and a mechanism for retrieving it. Most web browsers display the URL of a web page above the page in an address bar. A typical URL could have the form http://www.example.com/index.html, which indicates a protocol (http), a hostname (www.example.com), and a file name (index.html).
In your supplementary question you asked if www.example.com/file[/].html is a valid URL. That URL isn't valid because a URL is a type of URI and a valid URI must have a scheme like http: (see RFC 3986). If c is not a URL code point and not %, parse error. If your use case is web development, you should look at what HTML5 has to say. In particular, several of Unicode character ranges are valid in HTML5, although it might still not be a good idea to use them.
Find the URL for a Facebook profile or Facebook fan or business page. It is easy to find the unique URL for your Facebook profile or business page. You can share the URL by copying and pasting it into a Constant Contact Email, Survey, or Event. Facebook Page. To get the unique URL for your Facebook page: 1  Log into Facebook ., then search for your business page. 2  Click on the search results to open it. 3  When the business page opens, copy the URL from the address bar in the browser.
alanpmcd. The href parameter must reference a valid Facebook page, but http://facebook.com/script.yorkshire is not a valid Facebook page. The page where I am trying to install a facebook plugin is http://www.scriptyorkshire.org.uk/about-us-test-new-template/. Like Box is for Facebook Pages. If you enter a URL value on the Like Box social plugin preview page and the URL does not render a Like Box then a WordPress plugin implementing the Like Box social plugin would be no different.
Facebook says valid URL is not a valid URL. up vote 2 down vote favorite. Trying to add the App Domain to a new app. Thing is the domain is http://the.me. Facebook doesn't consider this to be a valid URL. 1. Tried that Calvin, getting this error message: Error You have specified an App Domain but have not specified a Site URL or a Mobile Web URL the.me must be derived from your Site URL or your Mobile Web URL. – Daniel Kestenholz Mar 8 '12 at 12:29.
URL tags help you identify what traffic is coming from specific ad campaigns you're running by letting you know which link a person clicked to get to your ad destination. Keep in mind that although you can add URL tags to your ads on Facebook, you'll need to use a third-party analytics tool to track the results... 
Something's broken. It seems impossible to to submit a Copyright Report through Facebook as the form will NOT accept any URLs from Facebook. Please provide links (URLs) leading directly to the specific content you are reporting. Only Facebook URLs accepted. Non-Facebook URLs and/or additional text not accepted
My Account. Something's broken. Hi All, I tried to paste https://www.facebook.com/TBBLbasketball on my Wordpress page, but it showed Error: Not a valid Facebook Page url., can you please check and help? Thanks, Steve. by Steve Deng