1 Establish the correct temperature in the freezer by placing a thermometer between frozen food packages. 2  Wait 5 to 8 hours. 3  If the temperature is not 0-2°F, adjust the freezer temperature control. 4  Check again after 5-8 hours. 
The ideal freezer temperature is 0 Fahrenheit (-18 Celsius) for storing food. And -10 Fahrenheit (-23 Celsius) is recommended when freezing food. The faster food freezes the smaller the ice crystals. The smaller the ice crystals the smaller the change in texture and better quality when thawed. If you want to test your freezer to see what temperature it is use a freezer thermometer. Ideally read the thermometer after the freezer door has been closed for quite awhile, like first thing in the morning, so you get an accurate reading.
The correct freezer temperature can vary according the local inspecting authority. The United States Food and Drug Administration does not set a specific temperature. They require that the food be frozen solid. Most things that do not have high sugar content are frozen solid at about 20 degrees Fahrenheit. If the air can not circulate freely in the box, there may be warm spots. For example, putting a baking sheet on a shelf in a reach-in blocks the air flow and the food below the sheet may not freeze solid. The FDA allows four to six hours for food put in the freezer to be cooled to the proper freezer temperature. Most freezers are designed to maintain the temperature of cold food. Too much warm food can increase the box temperature and even cause other food to warm
Turns out the temperature at which food freezes and the freezer temperature it should be stored at can be two different things. Even if your freezer seems to be doing its job, you should know the correct temperature to set it to! Kitchen Fact: The ideal temperature range for your freezer is 0° Fahrenheit or below (-18° Celsius or below).
To make sure your freezer is running at the correct temperature, get a freezer thermometer to monitor the temperature, and make sure you defrost your freezer every once in awhile to make sure it's running efficiently. Kitchen Fact Source: Freezing and Food Safety at the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Even if your freezer seems to be doing its job, you should know the correct temperature to set it to! Kitchen Fact: The ideal temperature range for your freezer is 0° Fahrenheit or below (-18° Celsius or below).
MYTH: A freezer that is too cold causes freezer burn. Temperature does not cause freezer burn. Freezer burn is the dehydration of your food by air. The moisture leaves the food, entering the air in the freezer. If you want to test your freezer to see what temperature it is use a freezer thermometer. Ideally read the thermometer after the freezer door has been closed for quite awhile, like first thing in the morning, so you get an accurate reading.
Freezer Upright and Chest Temperatures. The correct operating temperature of chest and upright freezers, including smaller, compact models is -5 to +5 degrees Fahrenheit. In order to take the temperature of solid food, place a thermometer between frozen packages or in some ice cream. Your chest freezer has a test position on the temperature monitor control. In order to verify that the buzzer is working, just put the switch in the test position and turn the thermostat to the coldest setting. The buzzer should go off within 10 to 15 seconds.
Freezer Storage. Keep your freezer at zero degrees (0°) or below to maintain the quality of frozen foods. Most foods will maintain good quality longer if the freezer temperature is -10 to -20°F. At temperatures between 0 and 32°F, food deteriorates more rapidly. Fluctuating temperatures, such as those in self-defrosting freezers, also may damage food quality