With the Dye Sublimation Transfer Process, you can print high quality digital images on a huge variety of items made of any material that is treated or coated or made of polyester. The imprinting is accomplished using a printer, special transfer inks and paper and a heat press.
The dye sublimation inks are a pigment suspended in a liquid solvent, like water. The images are initially printed on coated heat-resistant transfer paper as a reverse image of the final design, which is then transferred onto polyester fabric in a heat press operating at a temperature around 180 to 210 C (375 F).
Dye sublimation (such as our 550 Series) uses a normal Epson inkjet printer, outfitted with a special print head, and bulk ink system, to print sublimation inks on to a transfer paper, this transfer is then used in the heat press to sublimate the image onto the product.
Sublimation printing uses sublimation ink & sublimation paper in the printing process. It transfers sublimation inks on the fabric through high temperature & pressure in 1 minute. Sublimation T-shirt normally will leave a permanent, vivid image with a soft-to-the-hand feel. 2.
A dye-sublimation printer (or dye-sub printer) is a computer printer which employs a printing process that uses heat to transfer dye onto materials such as a plastic, card, paper, or fabric.
When using sublimation, you do NOT need to trim around the image – only the ink will transfer to the substrate and there is no coating on the paper. You will need to use sublimation paper in order to get the proper release of the ink onto the garment.
The heat transfer paper for sublimation printing does not have a coating on them. This paper has a special finish on the surface so the inks do not soak into the paper. After you print the transfer paper it is then placed on the product to be applied with a heat press.
Heat transfer is the process of printing onto special transfer paper and using a heat press or home iron to transfer it onto a shirt.
After the digital design is printed onto sublimation transfer sheets, it is placed on a heat press along with the substrate to be sublimated. In order to transfer the image from the paper to the substrate, it requires a heat press process that is a combination of time, temperature and pressure.
Dye Sublimation Transfer is a process where you take an image-that has been created digitally (either by scanning, downloaded from a digital camera or created on your computer) and then print this image with a printer using special sublimation transfer inks onto transfer paper.