You can spend a lot of money and buy boxes and boxes of acoustic foam tiles, and then glue them all over the walls and ceiling in a spare room. If the foam is thick enough then you will certainly reduce the sound reflection within the room and the recordings will be improved.
Spot-Bonding Hollow sounds produced by tapping tiles can also be a result of an improper installation method called spot-bonding. Spot-bonding is when an installer applies “spots” of adhesive on each corner of a tile and one in the center, and then presses it into place.
Hollow Versus Solid Sounding Tiles A common symptom we come across in investigations is ceramic or stone tile (“tile”) that sounds hollow. A simple way to check for the sound in question is to tap on the tiles with a hard object such as a steel ball bearing. Chains or special sounding devices can be used for larger areas. If the tile is well bonded (i.e. attached to the concrete substrate), it will have a high-pitched sound.
With the microphone well back into the box no sound can enter from the sides, back or top, and the reader's head blocks most of the reflected sound entering the front of the microphone. Harlan Hogan generously published an online article describing how to make a Porta-Booth . You can see how simple the booth can be!
Rather than sticking acoustic foam tiles onto the walls of a room to make a vocal booth you can stand in, you can stick acoustic foam tiles to the inside of a box just large enough to hold your microphone.
For example, when tile is installed over a less dense substrate as in the case of wood, a non-bonded mortar bed, a sound control mat or over a steel frame, wall tapping often produces a hollow sound even if the tile is attached well.
If an entire tile installation sounds hollow it may be a result of the type of substrate that was used, like the ones I just mentioned (less dense substrates). In my experience I’ve rarely seen an entire installation that’s debonded unless there are other symptoms like loose or cracked tile or grout.
1 Your trowel size will depend on the size and type of tile you're using. 2  For the average small wall tiles which are currently popular, you will want to use a 1x4 square notch trowel. 3  Test a tile to make sure the mortar is mixed and spread correctly. 4  Mortar a small spot and then place a tile.