GMO stands for “genetically modified organism”, which is a new organism, not found in nature, created by scientists when they genetically modify or engineer food plants. Health and environmental risks with genetically modified foods have been identified. In fact, unless you buy exclusively organic, you will inevitably purchase foods that contain genetically modified ingredients, especially if those foods contain soybeans, corn, or their derivatives (soy oil, soy flour, soy protein isolates, corn oil, corn starch, corn flour, and high fructose corn syrup).
GMO stands for Genetically Modified Organisms, and in the case of food, it usually refers to foods that have been genetically engineered for reasons unrelated to health or nourishment. 
[...] this food was probably “the most popular” vegetable on my table. Then big business introduced Genetically Modified Organism products, GMO as it is commonly referred, to our foods in 1996. These organisms are not found in nature, [...]. In fact, unless you buy exclusively organic, you will inevitably purchase foods that contain genetically modified ingredients, especially if those foods contain soybeans, corn, or their derivatives (soy oil, soy flour, soy protein isolates, corn oil, corn starch, corn flour, and high fructose corn syrup).
However, the U.S. does not have mandatory GMO labeling, and the FDA does not require safety assessments of GMO foods or even review all GMO products hitting the market. Many American want this to change and there is a groundswell of non-GMO advocacy underway. In fact, unless you buy exclusively organic, you will inevitably purchase foods that contain genetically modified ingredients, especially if those foods contain soybeans, corn, or their derivatives (soy oil, soy flour, soy protein isolates, corn oil, corn starch, corn flour, and high fructose corn syrup).
Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in food are concern for consumers who are worried about the impact that these organisms may have on their health. As a result, many companies in the late 1990s began to apply the GMO free label, indicating that their food does not contain genetically modified organisms. A number of nations legislate labeling, and in Europe, food must be labeled to indicate whether or not it contains GMOs.
A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism). Genetically modified crops (GM crops, or biotech crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering techniques. In most cases the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species.
The Non-GMO Project, a non-profit 501(c)3 organization, offers North America’s only third party verification and labeling for non-GMO (genetically modified organism) food and products. We currently have over 27,000 Non-GMO Project Verified products from 1,500 brands, representing well over $11 Billion in annual sales. Non-GMO Project Verified is currently one of the fastest growing labels in the natural food sector, and increasingly is an attribute sought by conventional brands as well. MISSION. Our mission is to preserve and build sources of non-GMO products, educate consumers, and provide verified non-GMO choices.
What Exactly Is GMO? GMO stands for genetically modified organism, and it can refer to a plant, animal, or microorganism that has been genetically changed in a lab through the gene splicing techniques of biotechnology (also called genetic engineering, or GE). 
The majority of corn grown in the U.S. has been genetically modified. The U.S. does not require labeling of genetically modified (GMO) food. Many conventional crops in the U.S. are subject to some form of genetic modification. GMO free means that a particular crop plant has not been genetically modified. The use of GMO food crops is a controversial issue. As a result, many companies in the late 1990s began to apply the GMO free label, indicating that their food does not contain genetically modified organisms. A number of nations legislate labeling, and in Europe, food must be labeled to indicate whether or not it contains GMOs.
10 reasons why “Organic” beats “Non-GMO” every time: 1. Certified organic foods are also non-GMO. USDA organic regulations prohibit any genetically modified (GMO) ingredients in a certified organic product. I avoid GMOs at all costs, and going organic is one of the easiest ways to do it. 