At the schools your major will be Spanish Teacher Education or Spanish Education and you'll have to take whatever core classes that the school requires (writing, history, math, etc.), education classes (teaching you how to teach), and spanish classes. Best Answer: If you want to become a high school spanish teacher, you're going to need to finish your high school diploma.
How to become a middle school Spanish teacher: educational requirements. Middle school Spanish teachers are expected to have at least a bachelor’s degree in Spanish, or another foreign language, accompanied by expert fluency in Spanish. The path to becoming a Spanish teacher depends on the level of instruction: elementary, middle school, high school or postsecondary school (college). The higher the grade level, the more concentrated the specialization in Spanish studies and curriculum. Many factors determine what grade level to teach.
Spanish Language Classes. The most important classes you will take to become a Spanish teacher are Spanish language classes. You will need to learn Spanish grammar, pronunciation, spelling, vocabulary and composition, and how to converse fluently in Spanish. To become a Spanish teacher in elementary school through high school, you will need to obtain a teaching license in the state where you plan to teach. You should check with your state to see what classes are necessary.
A bachelor degree is required of Spanish teachers aspiring to work in public schools at the K-12 level. They must be fluent in the Spanish language and required to complete a teacher training program that includes student teaching experience. All aspiring Spanish teachers are required to submit to competency testing in fluency for the language. Students who spent a year or a semester abroad or a native Spanish speaker will improve their career prospect to becoming a Spanish teacher. Additionally, academic credits are awarded for time spent studying abroad.
Education. To become a Spanish teacher, you need to earn a bachelor's degree in Spanish or education. Teachers at the middle and high school levels typically earn their degrees in subject-specific areas, while elementary school teachers typically earn education degrees. 
To work as a public high school Spanish teacher, you will have to meet licensing requirements, which specify the education and training needed. To work in a private high school or at the postsecondary level, where licensing is not mandatory, you need to meet requirements set by your prospective employer. To teach in high school, you must also complete a student teaching assignment to meet licensing requirements. This involves working in a classroom under the guidance of a licensed teacher. You'll learn the aspects of running a classroom, interacting with students and designing and teaching class assignments.
To become a Spanish teacher, you'll need to complete at least a bachelor's degree program in Spanish and complete a teacher's education program. To teach in high school, you must also complete a student teaching assignment to meet licensing requirements. This involves working in a classroom under the guidance of a licensed teacher. You'll learn the aspects of running a classroom, interacting with students and designing and teaching class assignments.
Learn how to become a Spanish teacher. Research the job description and the education and licensing requirements and find out how to start a career as a Spanish teacher. Some school systems require teachers to earn a master's degree shortly after certification. Master's degree programs typically take about two years to finish, and students can receive a master's degree in either Spanish or education, as determined by the program and their personal interests.
Some programs are specifically aimed for students who want to become Spanish teachers. Typically, you'll want a degree that focuses in education and instruction. You can then minor in Spanish linguistics or continue your education with a Spanish specialization. How to Become a Spanish Teacher in 5 Steps. Research what it takes to become a Spanish teacher. learn about education requirements, licensure, job duties and job outlook, to find out if this is career is right for you.
Spanish teachers often work in high schools and middle schools, although elementary schools also employ Spanish teachers. If you want to teach in a public school, you'll be required to have at least a bachelor's degree, and in some states and school districts, you'll also need a master's degree. People who want to become Spanish teachers generally pursue a degree in teaching with a focus in Spanish language instruction. If you already have your degree in Spanish, you could go back to college and obtain a degree in elementary, secondary or middle school education, with a credential that allows you to teach Spanish. This could include a bilingual educator credential or a Spanish language credential, depending on your interest.