Hopsack is one of my go-to fabrics in the Spring and Summer. It’s not technically a fabric, it’s a method of weaving a fabric (most often a lightweight wool). The “basket weave” texture, which comes in many different gages, creates a very unique feel to a tailored garment. Think of it like a Spring/Summer alternative to flannel or tweed. Hopsack Pros.
• HOPSACK (noun). The noun HOPSACK has 1 sense: 1. a loosely woven coarse fabric of cotton or linen; used in clothing. Familiarity information: HOPSACK used as a noun is very rare. 
Hopsack refers to a fabric that is loosely woven. The technique involved in weaving hopsack fabric results in a coarse texture. With this kind of texture, hopsack fabric is considered to having a rough surface and finish. Hopsack fabric is commonly used in the manufacture of various items including clothing, bags, curtains, furniture covers and many others. One great property of hopsack fabric is its rugged and rough feel. With this particular property, many people use hopsack fabric in making curtains and furniture covers, for example. In the case of curtains, the weaving in hopsack is loose, and this results in allowing some air to pass through the fabric. Instead, the heat from the sun is what it takes for the hopsack fabric to dry easily after washing. With its associated durability, despite the loose weaving, some people also use hopsack fabric in pieces of clothing. Others also turn them into bags and other accessories.
Noun. 1. hopsack-a loosely woven coarse fabric of cotton or linen; used in clothing. hopsacking. hop·sack·ing. n. A loosely woven, coarse fabric of cotton or wool
Hopsack. Hopsack (like Basketweave) is a woven upholstery fabric. Hopsack is a distinctive woven fabric with a prominent slubbed effect. This fabric is used for bed and headboard coverings, loose covers for furniture and highly suitable for curtains and soft furnishings. Hopsack woven fabric os 100% Polyester making a versatile and durable fabric, easily washable and quick drying. 
Originally Posted by arkirshner Hopsack is a weave not a style. Cloth made with a hopsack weave is a bit coarser, (and thus less formal), than a plain weave because to weave hopsack two or more warp yarns are woven together as one and two or more weft yarns are also woven together as one. Like all cloth, the same weave comes in different weights. 
Hopsack. Technically a hopsack can be made of any fabric, but in my opinion it’s most effective with a high-twist tropical weight wool. “Hopsack” simply refers to the loosely woven nature of the fabric; it looks like a very tiny basket-weave up close. Pros. 1  The loose weave lets the breeze right through the fabric. 
Description. Create stylish apparel to complement your fashion style with the Sew Classics Linen Hopsack 52''. A loosely woven and coarse piece of fabric, hopsack linen offers a lot of versatility. Made of 55% linen and 45% rayon, this 52-inch fabric is easy to work with and is ideal to make formal wear, blouses, blazers and even fashion accessories. 
Barathea, sometimes spelled barrathea, is a soft fabric, with a hopsack twill weave giving a surface that is lightly pebbled or ribbed. The yarns use cover various combinations of wool, silk and cotton. 