Otaku (Heavy fans of Japanese cartoons) slang for a cat girl. Literally meaning Cat-ear in Japanese. Usually a girl in cosplay (costume) wearing homemade cat ears and tail of their favorate character from an anime series (Japanese cartoon). Note: Can also be someone of a cat-humanoid race, as in a mithra from Final Fantasy XI. A more literal meaning of Nekomimi in Japanese is Nekomusume (cat daughter or cat girl)
This is a list of wearers of nekomimi (Japanese 猫耳, literally cat ear(s)). 1 Haru Yoshioka from the Studio Ghibli anime The Cat Returns transforms into a cat when she is brought to the Cat Kingdom. 2  Hikaru Shidou from Magic Knight Rayearth often appears with cat ears and a tail when drawn in super deformed. 3  Johari the wereleopard from Quest for Glory III: Wages of War.
Noun. (plural nekomimi or nekomimis). ( 1 chiefly Japanese fiction) A fictional character who has cat ears on top of the head of an otherwise human body, and possibly other feline characteristics as well, such as a tail. 
A catgirl is a female character with cat traits, such as cat ears, a cat tail, or other feline characteristics on an otherwise human body. The first anime titled The King’s Tail (Osama no Shippo) involving cat-girls was made in 1949 by Mitsuyo Seo. Cat-girls in Japanese media were further made popular when in 1978 the series The Star of Cottonland (Wata no Kuni Hoshi) started.
This article is about the catgirl in popular culture. For information of on the mythical creature, see Bakeneko. For the sidekick Catgirl in Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again, see Carrie Kelly. For a similarly named comic book character, see Catwoman. The first anime titled The King’s Tail (Osama no Shippo) involving cat-girls was made in 1949 by Mitsuyo Seo. Cat-girls in Japanese media were further made popular when in 1978 the series The Star of Cottonland (Wata no Kuni Hoshi) started.
Only two light-touch sensors on your forehead and ear. Show the world what’s really on your mind and impress your friends with some of the most advanced brainwave technology available! Necomimi’s cat-like reactive movements show how interested or relaxed you are in real-time. Show the world what’s really on your mind and impress your friends with some of the most advanced brainwave technology available!
Some specific types of kemono are common enough to be known by their own terms: 1  Nekomimi / nekomusume - 'cat ears' or 'cat daughter', nekomimis are the best-known. 2  Kitsunemimi / kitsunemusume - 'fox ears' or 'fox daughter', the second most common variant after nekomimis. Kemonomimi (獣耳 animal ears) is an anime and manga terminology that describes characters that possess animal like features. The characters will be predominately human and any real animal characteristics are minimal, unlike kemono characters who possess a large percentage of animal parts in ratio with their human parts. Generally kemonomimi characters have ears and a tail which are animal-like