Aquarius is the 10th largest constellation in the sky, occupying an area of 980 square degrees. It is located in the fourth quadrant of the southern hemisphere (SQ4) and can be seen at latitudes between +65° and -90°. Constellations bordering Aquarius are Aquila, Capricornus, Cetus, Delphinus, Equuleus, Pegasus, Pisces, Piscis Austrinus, and Sculptor. Aquarius is depicted as a young man pouring water (or alternatively, nectar) from an amphora into the mouth of the Southern Fish, represented by the constellation Piscis Austrinus. Aquarius is usually associated with Ganymede, the son of King Tros, in Greek mythology.
How to see the constellation Aquarius. Aquarius the Water Bearer is best seen in the evening sky during a Northern Hemisphere autumn or Southern Hemisphere spring. Aquarius appears in the southern sky as seen from northerly latitudes. South of the equator, it’s found overhead or high in the northern sky. Dates of sun’s passage through Aquarius. As seen from Earth, the sun in 2015 passes in front of the constellation Aquarius from February 16 to March 12. It is important to note that these dates are in reference to the constellation – not the sign – Aquarius.
Aquarius constellation is located in the southern hemisphere. Its name means “the water-bearer” (or “cup-bearer”) in Latin and its symbol is ♒, which represents water. Aquarius is depicted as a young man pouring water (or alternatively, nectar) from an amphora into the mouth of the Southern Fish, represented by the constellation Piscis Austrinus. Aquarius is usually associated with Ganymede, the son of King Tros, in Greek mythology.
Aquarius the Water Bearer is a constellation of the Zodiac, which means the sun, moon and planets all occasionally or regularly pass within its boundaries. It’s a big constellation and has long been associated with water. This constellation has no particularly bright stars, and you will need a dark sky to pick it out. Dates of sun’s passage through Aquarius. As seen from Earth, the sun in 2015 passes in front of the constellation Aquarius from February 16 to March 12. It is important to note that these dates are in reference to the constellation – not the sign – Aquarius.
Aquarius is located near Cetus (the whale), Pisces (the fish), Delphinus (the dolphin), Eridanus (the river), which are all part of what is often referred to as the water or sea section of the sky where there are a cluster of water-related constellations. Locating Aquarius. The constellation can be seen in the spring in the Southern Hemisphere and the fall in the Northern Hemisphere. 1  Right Ascension: 22.71 hours. 2  Declination: -10.19 degrees. 3  Visible: Between 65 degrees and -90 degrees. 4  Best viewed: During October at 9 p.m.
Among these watery constellations is the Water Bearer, Aquarius. This week, the famous constellation is in a commanding location in the southeast sky at around 9 p.m. local time. The rich mythology of Aquarius is very ancient, tracing back to the earliest civilizations in the Tigris and Euphrates valleys. 
Aquarius lies in the region of the sky sometimes referred to as the Sea, because it contains a number of constellations with names related to water; Pisces (the fish), Eridanus (the river), and Cetus (the whale) , among others. Aquarius is depicted as a young man pouring water (or alternatively, nectar) from an amphora into the mouth of the Southern Fish, represented by the constellation Piscis Austrinus. Aquarius is usually associated with Ganymede, the son of King Tros, in Greek mythology.
The brightest star in the Aquarius constellation is a rare yellow supergiant known as beta Aquarii, also known as Sadalsuud. It is 600 light-years away and has a magnitude of 2.9, which is low. Alpha Aquarii, or Sadalmelik, is a giant star located 760 light-years from Earth and has a magnitude of 2.95. Locating Aquarius. The constellation can be seen in the spring in the Southern Hemisphere and the fall in the Northern Hemisphere. 1  Right Ascension: 22.71 hours. 2  Declination: -10.19 degrees. 3  Visible: Between 65 degrees and -90 degrees. 4  Best viewed: During October at 9 p.m.
Aquarius is a constellation of the zodiac, situated between Capricornus and Pisces. Its name is Latin for water-carrier or cup-carrier, and its symbol is (Unicode ♒), a representation of water. Aquarius is one of the oldest of the recognized constellations along the zodiac (the sun 's apparent path). The constellation's stars were the most numerous of any Chinese constellation, numbering 45, the majority of which were located in modern Aquarius. The celestial army was protected by the wall Leibizhen, which counted Iota, Lambda, Phi, and Sigma Aquarii among its 12 stars.
How to see the constellation Aquarius. The Water Jar in Aquarius. Aquarius in history and star lore. Dates of sun’s passage through Aquarius. 1948 night sky star map showing the constellations of the ancient Sea imagined by the ancients in this part of the sky. Dates of sun’s passage through Aquarius. As seen from Earth, the sun in 2015 passes in front of the constellation Aquarius from February 16 to March 12. It is important to note that these dates are in reference to the constellation – not the sign – Aquarius.