Report a loan shark. Loan sharks are illegal moneylenders who often charge very high interest rates. You can check if a company is authorised to lend money and report loan sharks anonymously. 
Privacy promise: We will never share your data or spam you. Loan sharks are illegal lenders who often target low income and desperate families. They may seem friendly at first but borrowing from them is never a good idea – even if your credit rating is poor or you only need a small amount for a short while. There are many risks attached to borrowing from a loan shark. 1  You pay far more in interest than you would through any legal borrowing. 2  You may be harassed if you get behind with your repayments. 3  You are often pressured into borrowing more money to repay one debt with another.
Loansharking Law & Legal Definition. Loansharking is the practice of lending money at exorbitant interest rates, especially when financed and supported by an organized crime network. Loansharking usually involves threatening extortion to get repayment. 
It takes advantage of the meek, the weak and the ignorant, said Robert J. Genis, a personal-injury lawyer in the Bronx who said that he had warned clients against borrowing. It is legal loan-sharking.. The lawsuit loans industry now lends plaintiffs more than $100 million a year, according to the Times. The Times piece -- a collaboration with the Center for Public Integrity -- has documented extensively the pitfalls of lawsuit loans for those who borrow, and can be read in full here. 
Loan sharking may refer to both legal and illegal activities. A loan shark is a person or body who offers loans at extremely high interest rates. The term usually refers to illegal activity, but may also refer to predatory lending with extremely high interest rates such as payday or title loans. Loan sharks sometimes enforce repayment by blackmail or threats of violence. 
http://bit.ly/1jg2YPe ‪#‎StopLoanSharks‬. To George Osborne and Stella Creasy. Fighting back against loan sharks in CumbriaWith Christmas shopping already starting for some families, it is estimated that more than 250,000 people nationally may borrow money from illegal lenders over the coming monthscumbriacrack.com. Fighting back against loan sharks in Cumbria. 
It is perfectly legal to BORROW from a loan shark; it is the interest rates charged by the loan shark which are illegal. They are called usury. If you don't pay, the negative marks will be on your body. denlp96 · 4 years ago. Report Abuse. I've never heard of anyone that got in trouble for BORROWING from a loan shark. Loaning money out at extremely high interest rates is illegal (what a loan shark does), and busting your knee caps for not paying on time is also illegal (what the loan shark's goons does).
But the reality is, even if you do, any money you borrow will come at a high price. There are many risks attached to borrowing from a loan shark. 1  You pay far more in interest than you would through any legal borrowing. 2  You may be harassed if you get behind with your repayments. 3  You are often pressured into borrowing more money to repay one debt with another.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Amarillaw. Confidence votes 297. Yes, it can be. There are legal limits set by each state on the amount of interest that can be charged on a loan. 
These are the loan sharks that made loans to the common citizen, and enforced payment. Loan sharks ensured payment with threats of violence. They require no collateral other than the borrower and his family’s well being. “Leg-breakers” were often employed by loan sharks to be sure they receive payment. Loan sharking is the practice of lending money to desperate people at extremely high and illegal rates of interest. Loan sharks, or shylocks, make a big profit from people who can’t get loans from legitimate sources, such as banks or other lending institutions.