Take a small group tour into the Alaskan arctic by air and land. Depart from Fairbanks and land across the Arctic Circle in a ceremonious fashion, where you will receive an official Arctic Circle certificate. Enjoy a walk on the arctic tundra, which will give you a sense of the vast scale of Alaska's arctic regions. Begin this tour with a small plane flight from Fairbanks and land across the Arctic Circle in a ceremonious fashion, where you will receive an official Arctic Circle certificate. Enjoy a walk on the treeless
The Arctic Circle is one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth. As of 21 October 2015, it runs 66°33′45.9″ north of the Equator. The climate inside the Arctic Circle is generally cold, but the coastal areas of Norway have a generally mild climate as a result of the Gulf Stream, which makes the ports of northern Norway and northwest Russia ice-free all year long.
The Arctic (/ˈɑrktɪk/ f) is a polar region located at the northernmost part of the Earth. The Arctic consists of the Arctic Ocean and parts of Alaska (United States), Canada, Finland, Greenland (Denmark), Iceland, Norway, Russia, and Sweden. The Arctic region consists of a vast ocean with a seasonally varying ice cover, surrounded by treeless permafrost.
North of the Arctic Circle, the sun is above the horizon for 24 continuous hours at least once per year (and therefore visible at midnight) and below the horizon for 24 continuous hours at least once per year (and therefore not visible at noon). The climate inside the Arctic Circle is generally cold, but the coastal areas of Norway have a generally mild climate as a result of the Gulf Stream, which makes the ports of northern Norway and northwest Russia ice-free all year long.
Arctic Map. The Arctic is a region of the planet, north of the Arctic Circle, and includes the Arctic Ocean, Greenland, Baffin Island, other smaller northern islands, and the far northern parts of Europe, Russia (Siberia), Alaska and Canada. The first explorers of the Arctic were Vikings. Norwegians visited the northern regions in the 9th century, and Erik the Red (Icelander) established a settlement in Greenland in 982. In 1909, after numerous attempts by regional explorers, Robert E. Peary reached the North Pole.
In contrast, the largest North American community north of the Arctic Circle, Sisimiut (Greenland), has approximately 5,000 inhabitants. Of the Canadian and United States Arctic communities, Barrow, Alaska is the largest settlement with about 4,000 inhabitants. The climate inside the Arctic Circle is generally cold, but the coastal areas of Norway have a generally mild climate as a result of the Gulf Stream, which makes the ports of northern Norway and northwest Russia ice-free all year long.
The largest western city north of the  Arctic Circle is Tromso, in Norway, with a population of more than  66,000. The largest city in North America is Barrow in Alaska, with  more or less 4,000 inhabitants. Eric Barnes. 226,483 Contributions. About 2 million people live north of the Arctic Circle. Most of  them live in Russia (1.4 million) and Scandinavia (0.5 million),  while less than 0.1 million live in North … America and Greenland.
The Arctic Circle is the southernmost latitude in the Northern Hemisphere at which the sun can remain continuously above or below the horizon for 24 hours (at the June solstice and December solstice respectively). The climate inside the Arctic Circle is generally cold, but the coastal areas of Norway have a generally mild climate as a result of the Gulf Stream, which makes the ports of northern Norway and northwest Russia ice-free all year long.
The Arctic Circle is also the name given the region around the North Pole. It includes the Arctic Ocean, thousands of islands, and the northern parts of Europe, Asia, and North America, including the Arctic and Subarctic regions of Alaska, Canada, Greenland, Iceland, Scandinavia, Siberia and the Russian Far East. There is also more snowfall in the lower 49 states than there is in the Arctic Regions. The reason is that the air is very dry and that there isn't enough moisture for there to be much snow. It has been said that if Alaska did not have snow, it would be a desert. The Arctic Circle is about 125 north of Fairbanks.