High average temperatures start in the low 70s, creep all the way up to 90 in July and settle back in the low 70s by October. That said, Nashville's climate is extraordinary fickle — from stifling humidity to thunderstorms — so you should pack for all types of weather conditions. 
The low temperature in Nashville in July on the first day of the month averages 69 degrees and the low temperature on the last day of the month averages 70 degrees. The lowest documented temperature in July for Nashville for the past 71 years was 54 most recently registered on July 8, 1972, and the standard low recorded daily temperature is 70.
Nashville Weather In July. The highest recorded temperature for Nashville for the past 71 years in July was 107 degrees Fahrenheit, measured on July 27, 1952, while the standard high temperature is 89. The lowest documented temperature in July for Nashville for the past 71 years was 54 most recently registered on July 8, 1972, and the standard low recorded daily temperature is 70.
National Weather Service records indicate that the high temperature in Nashville on July First averages 89 degrees and the high on the last day of the month averages 90 degrees. The lowest documented temperature in July for Nashville for the past 71 years was 54 most recently registered on July 8, 1972, and the standard low recorded daily temperature is 70.
United States National Weather Service historical Nashville July weather data indicates that on July 21, 1970, the measured high temperature did not exceed 68 degrees Fahrenheit, the lowest high measured in Nashville in the past 71 years. The lowest documented temperature in July for Nashville for the past 71 years was 54 most recently registered on July 8, 1972, and the standard low recorded daily temperature is 70.
Overall, temperatures during coldest month of the year, January, average in the 40s during the day and upper 20s at night, but can often rise much higher or fall lower depending on the type of air mass influencing the weather. Annual snowfall in Nashville averages 10 inches and is rarely disruptive. Summer. Summertime in Nashville means a hot, muggy atmosphere, rendering air-conditioning necessary for many. During July, the warmest month of the year, daily highs average in the upper 80s to near 90 degrees F, and overnight lows typically drop to around 70.
Nashville's Weather and Temperature Range is fairly moderate compared to many other cities in the USA. While Nashville has recorded temperatures as low as has -17 degrees and as high as 107 degrees, that is not the norm.
Normally, the temperatures in Nashville will range from an average low of 37 degrees in January to an average high of 80 degrees in July. Listed below are the average temperatures broken down by month and in Fahrenheit. While Nashville has recorded temperatures as low as has -17 degrees and as high as 107 degrees, that is not the norm.
The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Nashville, Tennessee during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below monthly and annually for the city, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. A cold night at Nashville means a temperature of 10 °F (-12 °C) or even less. The city normally sees temperatures that cold three times a winter. Nashville also has an average of seven days annually when the thermometer stays below freezing all day.