Definition of LUCIFERASE. : an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of luciferin. ADVERTISEMENT
Luciferase is a generic term for the class of oxidative enzymes used in bioluminescence and is distinct from a photoprotein. The name is derived from Lucifer, the root of which means 'light-bearer' (lucem ferre). One example is the firefly luciferase (EC 1.13.12.7) from the firefly Photinus pyralis. Firefly luciferase as a laboratory reagent often refers to P. pyralis luciferase although recombinant luciferases from several other species of fireflies are also commercially available. Luciferase can function in two different pathways: a bioluminescence pathway and a CoA-ligase pathway. In both pathways, luciferase initially catalyzes an adenylation reaction with MgATP.
Light is produced by converting the chemical energy of luciferin oxidation through an electron transition, forming the product molecule oxyluciferin. Firefly luciferase, a monomeric 61kDa protein, catalyzes luciferin oxidation using ATP-Mg 2+ as a cosubstrate. In the conventional assay for luciferase, a flash of light is generated that decays rapidly after the enzyme and substrates are combined. 
One is a luciferin, or a light-producing substance. The other is a luciferase, or an enzyme that catalyzes the reaction. In some cases, the luciferin is a protein known as a photoprotein, and the light-making process requires a charged ion to activate the reaction. Neurological, mechanical, chemical or as-yet-undiscovered triggers can start the reactions that create light.
Luciferase. Luciferase. (Science: enzyme) An enzyme from firefly tails that catalyses the production of light in the reaction between luciferin and atp. Used by the male firefly for producing light to attract females and used in the laboratory in a chemiluminescence bioassay for atp.
Sometimes the luciferin and catalyzing protein (the equivalent of a luciferase), as well as a co-factor such as oxygen, are bound together to form a single unit called a  photoprotein .. This molecule can be triggered to produce light when a particular type of ion is added to the system (frequently calcium). The one which produces the light is generically called a  luciferin  and the one that drives or catalyzes the reaction is called a  luciferase ..
Luciferase. Luciferase is a generic name for enzymes commonly used in nature for bioluminescence. The most famous one is firefly luciferase (EC 1.13.12.7). In luminescent reactions, light is produced by the oxidation of a luciferin (a pigment), sometimes involving Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) . The rates of this reaction between luciferin and oxygen are extremely slow until they are triggered by the presence of luciferase. Luciferin and luciferase do not refer to a particular molecule. They are generic terms for a light-producing chemical and its associated regulatory compound, usually a protein. A wide variety of species regulate their light production using a