An oil refinery or petroleum refinery is an industrial process plant where crude oil is processed and refined into more useful products such as petroleum naphtha, gasoline, diesel fuel, asphalt base, heating oil, kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas. The crude oil feedstock has typically been processed by an oil production plant. There is usually an oil depot (tank farm) at or near an oil refinery for the storage of incoming crude oil feedstock as well as bulk liquid products.
Much of the gasoline that comes from the Crude Units or from the Cracking Units does not have enough octane to burn well in cars. The gasoline process streams in the refinery that have a fairly low octane rating are sent to a Reforming Unit where their octane levels are boosted. The Pascagoula Refinery's refining process begins when crude oil is distilled in two large Crude Units that have three distillation columns, one that operates at near atmospheric pressure, and two others that operate at less than atmospheric pressure, i.e., a vacuum.
Chevron's Pascagoula Refinery processes 330,000 barrels (13.9 million gallons) of crude oil a day-an amount equivalent to the size of a football field covered to a depth of 40 feet. Operators control the refining processes using hi-tech computers located in control centers situated throughout the refinery. The Pascagoula Refinery's refining process begins when crude oil is distilled in two large Crude Units that have three distillation columns, one that operates at near atmospheric pressure, and two others that operate at less than atmospheric pressure, i.e., a vacuum.
Although all fractions of petroleum find uses, the greatest demand is for gasoline. One barrel of crude petroleum contains only 30-40% gasoline. Transportation demands require that over 50% of the crude oil be converted into gasoline. To meet this demand some petroleum fractions must be converted to gasoline. The Refining Process. Generally, crude petroleum is heated and changed into a gas. The hot gases are passed into the bottom of a distillation column and become cooler as they move up the height of the column. As the gases cool below their boiling point, they condense into a liquid.
For other uses, see Refinery (disambiguation) . A refinery is a production facility composed of a group of chemical engineering unit processes and unit operations refining certain materials or converting raw material into products of value. The image below is a schematic flow diagram of a typical oil refinery depicting various unit processes and the flow of intermediate products between the inlet crude oil feedstock and the final products.
The oil refinery in Haifa, Israel is capable of processing about 9 million tons (66 million barrels) of crude oil a year. Its two cooling towers are landmarks of the city's skyline. The crude oil feedstock has typically been processed by an oil production plant. There is usually an oil depot (tank farm) at or near an oil refinery for the storage of incoming crude oil feedstock as well as bulk liquid products.
Gas and oil plant operators – also called “process operators”-control the refining process for crude oil or natural gas.Alaska is blessed with lots of oil and gas resources.These naturalresources are a big part of Alaska’s economy and the oil industryprovides many job opportunities throughout the state. Gaugerstest and control oil and gas flows at wells, tank farms, andrefineries. Here’s what Process Operators do: ● Monitor all steps of the refining process. ● Make sure the proper temperatures are maintained and theright ingredients are mixed together. ● Take samples to inspect the quality of what is beingproduced.
Refining separates crude oil into components used for a variety of purposes, from high-performance fuels to plastics. The Facts About Crude Oil. The refining process begins with crude oil. Crude oil is unrefined liquid petroleum, which ranges in color from yellow to black, and may have a paraffin, asphalt or mixed base. Crude oil is composed of thousands of different chemical compounds called hydrocarbons, all with different boiling points. The Refining Process. Generally, crude petroleum is heated and changed into a gas. The hot gases are passed into the bottom of a distillation column and become cooler as they move up the height of the column. As the gases cool below their boiling point, they condense into a liquid.