Making the world better, one answer at a time. The flank is the lower area of the torso located between the ribs and the hips. It is a fleshy area on the side of the body
The pain arises in the flank, the region of the body that is above the Ilium and below the rib. Usually, it begins in a posterior fashion or in the middle part of the axillary line. It results from the stimulation of specific nerve endings upon stretching of the renal capsule or ureter. Left Flank Pain. The flank in the left side of the human body can pain due common problems like muscular spasms or severe cases of infections like acute Pyelonephritis. Gastrointestinal Disorders, Kidney Problems, Urinary Tract ailments and Diverticulitis may also give rise to this pain.
2,377 Contributions. Flank Pain is a kind of pain which is mainly characterised by mild to severe aching in the part of the body situated between the back and upper abdomen. This condition is comm … only associated with problems in the kidney. Where on a horses body is the flank?   Flank: Where the hind legs and the barrel of the horse meet, specifically the area right behind the rib cage and in front of the stifle joint.
flank. 1. the side of an animal or a person between the ribs and hip. 2. the thin piece of flesh constituting this part. 3. a cut of meat from the flank of an animal. 4. the side of anything. 5. the extreme right or left side of an army or fleet. 6. the part of a bastion that extends from the curtain to the face. 7. to stand or be placed or posted at the flank or side of.
flank | flank forward | flanking | in flank. the side of a person's or animal's body between the ribs and the hip | a cut of meat from the flank of an animal | the side of a large object or ... 
Flank Pain is a kind of pain which is mainly characterised by mild to severe aching in the part of the body situated between the back and upper abdomen. This condition is comm … only associated with problems in the kidney. The flank is the lower area of the torso located between the ribs and the hips. It is a fleshy area on the side of the bod
flank. n. 1. The section of flesh on the body of a person or an animal between the last rib and the hip; the side. 2. A cut of meat from the flank of an animal. 3. A lateral part or side: the flank of a mountain. 4. a. The right or left side of a military formation: an attack on both flanks. 2. the thin piece of flesh constituting this part. 3. a cut of meat from the flank of an animal. 4. the side of anything. 5. the extreme right or left side of an army or fleet. 6. the part of a bastion that extends from the curtain to the face. 7. to stand or be placed or posted at the flank or side of.
the side of the body between the ribs and ilium. flank fat. thickness of the flank fold; a measure favored by cattle buyers as an indicator of the probable level of fat in the animal. flank. The area of the abdomen on each side of the umbilical region between transpyloric plane and intertubercular or interspinous plane. Synonym(s): latus [TA], lateral abdominal region ☆ , lateral region of abdominal region ☆ , lateral region ☆ , regio abdominis lateralis ☆ , regio lateralis abdominis ☆.
2. lateral region. mammary region the part of the pectoral region surrounding the mammary gland. N region [ n odal region] the region of the atrioventricular node consisting of the body of the node. NH region [ n odal-H is region] the area where the atrioventricular node becomes the bundle of His. flank. The area of the abdomen on each side of the umbilical region between transpyloric plane and intertubercular or interspinous plane. Synonym(s): latus [TA], lateral abdominal region ☆ , lateral region of abdominal region ☆ , lateral region ☆ , regio abdominis lateralis ☆ , regio lateralis abdominis ☆.