The basic amount of Working Tax Credit is up to £1,960 a year-you could get more (or less) depending on your circumstances and income. Use the tax credits calculator to work out how much you could get. You can apply for Working Tax Credit even if you don’t have children or you’re on leave or about to start a new job. You can’t claim tax credits and Universal Credit at the same time. 
Working tax credits: How much will you get. Just like child tax credits, working tax credit is made up of a number of different 'elements' or payments. You may be eligible for just one element or for a few different elements, depending on your family circumstances. Everyone who qualifies for working tax credit receives the basic element, worth up to £1,960 during 2015/16, depending on your income. In addition, you can receive extra elements depending on your
Working tax credits and child tax credits – for people with children. The table below shows how much child tax credit and working tax credit you might be able to get if you are in work and responsible for at least one child or young person. Working tax credits – for people without children. The table below shows how much you might receive in working tax credit for the tax year 2015/16 for people without children.
Your income and Working Tax Credits. Even if you meet the work conditions, you will only get Working Tax Credit if you have a low enough income. Your income for tax credits is assessed on an annual basis. Whether or not you get Working Tax Credit, and how much you get, depends on your income and your circumstances. If you're single or in a couple, and have no children, you can qualify if: 1  you are 25 or over and you work at least 30 hours a week, or. 2  you are 16 or over and you work at least 16 hours a week and you are disabled and you get a qualifying benefit, or. 3  you are 60 or over and you work at least 16 hours a week.
The income threshold for Working Tax Credit (or Working Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit together) will be reduced to £3,850 in April 2016. Use GOV.UK’s Tax credits calculator for an estimate of how much you could get. If you work at least 16 hours a week and pay for childcare, you might be able to claim the ‘childcare element’ or Working Tax Credit to help with up to 70% of your childcare costs.
If you work 16 hours or more a week. If you work 16 hours or more a week, you may be entitled to Working Tax Credit (see under heading Working Tax Credit). This will depend on your circumstances and how much money you have coming in. If you're single or in a couple, and have no children, you can qualify if: 1  you are 25 or over and you work at least 30 hours a week, or. 2  you are 16 or over and you work at least 16 hours a week and you are disabled and you get a qualifying benefit, or. 3  you are 60 or over and you work at least 16 hours a week.
Credit worth as much as $1,000 per child. If you have children who are under age 17 at of the end of the calendar year, you can get a tax credit of up to $1,000 per child on your tax return.
Working Tax Credit to help with childcare costs. If you work at least 16 hours a week and pay for childcare, you might be able to claim the ‘childcare element’ or Working Tax Credit to help with up to 70% of your childcare costs. If you’re in a couple, both of you need to be working at least 16 hours each to qualify
Tax credits calculator. Get an estimate of how much in tax credits you could get in total, from today’s date to the end of the 2015 to 2016 tax year. You’ll see your result as a lump sum. The calculator uses current rates (it can’t calculate tax credits for future years). This service may not work in all browsers. 