Another state high point is in the bag! Bernie and I drove across Pennsylvania (from New Jersey) to stand on the Pennsylvania High Point. Mount Davis is located in Somerset County in southwest Pennsylvania. I can give solid directions from the north: From Somerset, PA, travel south on State Road 219 to Meyersdale. In Meyersdale, turn right on SR 2004 (Broadway-there is a large sign for Mt. Davis at this spot). This is Mt. Davis Road. We stood on four state high points-a grand slam-in 25 hours! Along with Pennsylvania, we made it to the high points of Maryland, West Virginia and Delaware. The adjacent photo of Bernie taking in the scenery in at the observation tower on Mt. Davis.
Tweet. Pennsylvania's highest point is Mount Davis, with an elevation of 3,200 feet (about 980 m). It still is about 100 feet lower than the lowest point in Colorado, which is located on the Arikaree River, at 3,300 feet (about 1,000 m). The highest point in Colorado, Mount Elbert, is more than four times the height of the highest point in Pennsylvania, at about 14,400 feet (about 4,400 m). 1 The state with the lowest high point is Florida, with Britton Hill, which is just 345 feet (about 105 m) above seal level as its high point.
Pennsylvania's highest point is Mount Davis, with an elevation of 3,200 feet (about 980 m). 1 The state with the lowest high point is Florida, with Britton Hill, which is just 345 feet (about 105 m) above seal level as its high point.
The high point in the state is Mount Davis, the peak of a long ridge called Negro Mountain, and can be found in southern Pennsylvania about four miles north of the Maryland border. Located in Forbes State Forest, Somerset County and about five miles northwest of Salisbury, Mount Davis rises 3,213 feet above sea level. This Pennsylvania base map highlights the location of the state capitol, Harrisburg, and major cities throughout the state. Portions of Pennsylvania's border states, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia, and Ohio are included to show the relationship between Pennsylvania and its neighbors.
More facts about elevation 1  : The U.S. state with the greatest difference in elevation between its highest and lowest points is Alaska, with a difference of 20,320 feet (about 6,200 m) between the highest point, Mount McKinley, and the lowest point, sea level. 1 The state with the lowest high point is Florida, with Britton Hill, which is just 345 feet (about 105 m) above seal level as its high point.
Mount Davis (3,213 ft or 979 m) is the highest point in Pennsylvania. Mount Davis ranks 33rd on the list of highest natural points in each U.S. state.
Pennsylvania's highest elevation point, Mount Davis, is 3,213 feet (979 meters) above sea level. Pennsylvania's lowest point is the Delaware river at the Delaware state border … and is actually at sea level. 
Or more formally, what is the highest elevation in Pennsylvania? To find the highest point in Pennsylvania, we looked at the distance between sea level and high points in the state of Pennsylvania. The place with the highest distance to sea level would be the highest point in Pennsylvania. The highest point in Pennsylvania is at the top of Mount Davis.The elevation at the top of Mount Davis is 3,213 feet above sea level.