The left lung has an indentation, called the cardiac depression, for the normal placement of the heart. Behind this is the hilum, through which the blood vessels, lymphatics, and bronchi enter and leave the lung. Air travels from the nasal passages to the pharynx, larynx, and trachea. that part of the lung that is not covered by pleura and through which blood vessels, bronchi, nerves and lymphatics enter and leave the lung. lung lobe torsion. occurs uncommonly in dogs and cats, most often of the right middle lobe. May occur spontaneously, following trauma, or in association with pleural effusion.
Within the lungs, your bronchi branch into thousands of smaller, thinner tubes called bronchioles. These tubes end in bunches of tiny round air sacs called alveoli (al-VEE-uhl-eye). Each of these air sacs is covered in a mesh of tiny blood vessels called capillaries. Your lungs and linked blood vessels deliver oxygen to your body and remove carbon dioxide from your body. Your lungs lie on either side of your breastbone and fill the inside of your chest cavity.
1 Hilum: At about the middle of the mediastinal surface, there is a depression where the bronchi, blood vessels and nerves, which form the root, enter of leave the lung. 2  Anterior border: The anterior border of the lungs is thin and overlaps the heart. 3  It is here on theleft lung that the cardiac notch is found. Shape of lungs: Each lung is conical in outline and is covered with visceral pleura. It suspends freely in its own pleural cavity and is attached to the mediastinum only through its root (the place where blood vessels and bronchi attach to the lung at hilum).
The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic.
Bronchi. As the trachea enters the chest cavity, it divides into two smaller tubes called the bronchi. There is an indented area, called the hilum, where each bronchus enters the lung and branches off. The arteries, veins, and nerves enter the lungs at the hilum as well. One (primary) bronchus enters each lung. The right bronchus is shorter, straighter, and wider than the left bronchus.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. hilum: middle region where bronchi, blood vessels, and nerves enter and exit the lungs. 
They are separated from each other by the mediastinum, which contains the heart. The only point of attachment for each lung is at the hilum, or root, on the medial side. This is where the bronchi, blood vessels, lymphatics, and nerves enter the lungs. The right lung is shorter, broader, and has a greater volume than the left lung. It is divided into three lobes and each lobe is supplied by one of the secondary bronchi. The left lung is longer and narrower than the right lung. The cartilage and mucous membrane of the primary bronchi are similar to that in the trachea. As the branching continues through the bronchial tree, the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles.
Trachea. The trachea, commonly called the windpipe, is the main airway to the lungs. It divides into the right and left bronchi at the level of the fifth thoracic vertebra, channeling air to the right or left lung. The hyaline cartilage in the tracheal wall provides support and keeps the trachea from collapsing.