Its political capital is Rabat, although the largest city is Casablanca; other major cities include Marrakesh, Tangier, Tetouan, Sale, Salé, Fes, Agadir, Meknes, Oujda, kenitra And. Nador a historically prominent regional, Power morocco has a history of independence not shared by its. neighbours A large part of Morocco is mountainous. The Atlas Mountains are located mainly in the center and the south of the country. The Rif Mountains are located in the north of the country. Both ranges are mainly inhabited by the Berber people.
Located in the continent of Africa, Morocco covers 446,300 square kilometers of land and 250 square kilometers of water, making it the 58th largest nation in the world with a total area of 446,550 square kilometers. The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham (MAD). As well, the people of Morocco are refered to as Moroccan. The dialing code for the country is 212 and the top level internet domain for Moroccan sites is .ma. Morocco shares land borders with 3 countries: Algeria, Spain, Western Sahara
Morocco is an African country and the closest to Europe. Only 8.6 miles (14km) separate Morocco and Spain on the Gibraltar strait. Morocco borders east and south with Algeria and deep South with Mauritania in the Moroccan Western Sahara region. Morocco has the particularity of being a multi-featured country in matter of geography.
Geography. Morocco, about one-tenth larger than California, lies across the Strait of Gibraltar on the Mediterranean and looks out on the Atlantic from the northwest shoulder of Africa. Algeria is to the east and Mauritania to the south. On the Atlantic coast there is a fertile plain. The Mediterranean coast is mountainous
Morocco has a population of over 33.8 million and an area of 446,550 km 2 (172,410 sq mi). Its political capital is Rabat, although the largest city is Casablanca; other major cities include Marrakesh, Tangier, Tetouan, Sale, Salé, Fes, Agadir, Meknes, Oujda, kenitra And. nador A large part of Morocco is mountainous. The Atlas Mountains are located mainly in the center and the south of the country. The Rif Mountains are located in the north of the country. Both ranges are mainly inhabited by the Berber people.
The given Morocco location map shows that Morocco is located in the north-west part of Africa continent. Morocco map also shows that Morocco shares its international boundary with Algeria from the west; however, in the southern region it has boundary with disputed region Western Sahara. Besides, from the north-west side, it has coastline with Mediterranean Sea and in the western side Atlantic Ocean lies. 
Morocco is a country located in Northwest Africa, right on the edge of the African continent, bordering Algerian to the east, Mauritania to the south, the Atlantic Ocean to the west and the Mediterranean Sea to the north. 
The geography of Morocco spans from the Atlantic Ocean, to mountainous areas, to the Sahara desert. Morocco is a Northern African country, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and the annexed Western Sahara. A large part of Morocco is mountainous. The Atlas Mountains are located mainly in the center and the south of the country. The Rif Mountains are located in the north of the country. Both ranges are mainly inhabited by the Berber people.