The misogyny in rap music is one such case. Misogyny in Hip Hop Culture refers to lyrics, videos or other aspects of hip hop culture that support, glorify, justify, or normalize the objectification, exploitation, or victimization of women. It can range from innuendoes to stereotypical characterizations and defamations. 
A misogynist is someone who hates, dislikes or is prejudiced against women, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. Unfortunately, those same people are usually unaware that their bias against women exists, which probably makes their misogyny grow. 
Misogyny (/mɪˈsɒdʒɪni/) is the hatred or dislike of women or girls. Misogyny can be manifested in numerous ways, including sexual discrimination, belittling of women, violence against women, and sexual objectification of women. Misogyny can be found occasionally within ancient texts relating to various mythologies. According to sociologist Allan G. Johnson, misogyny is a cultural attitude of hatred for females because they are female..
Misogyny .... is a central part of sexist prejudice and ideology and, as such, is an important basis for the oppression of females in male-dominated societies. Misogyny is manifested in many different ways, from jokes to pornography to violence to the self-contempt women may be taught to feel toward their own bodies. According to sociologist Allan G. Johnson, misogyny is a cultural attitude of hatred for females because they are female..
Answer: A Misogynist is a person (often but not always a man) who hates women. Some psychoanalysts feel that it stems from the time when some men were boys and experienced a time earlier in their lives when they had a need to feel more masculine, and not so nurtured by their mothers as daughters do. Spelled correctly, misogyny means a hatred of women. A misogynist is a person full of hatred and dislike for women. Answer: Ironically, the previous answer is an example in tone and implication of misandry, misogyny's ugly opposite. Misogyny is a form of misanthropy, also seen in misandry.
Submitted by Robert on September 29, 2015 - 8:19am. Everything is a choice but all of our choices are based on prior experiences from childhood on. To say men learn misogyny from what is around them is not a revelation but it stems from how they were raised, the attitudes of their parents and social structure. Why else would we have most major religions, racism, bigotry, misogyny etc. All of these things are learned behaviours. 
No, misogyny is not simply hatred toward women. Imagine a society in which there are only 10 women. The 10 women gang rape Mr. Smith. As a result Mr. Smith justifiably comes to hate the 10 women. But they are all the women there are. So, Mr. Smith hates all women. But he is not thereby a misogynist. Misogyny involves hatred toward women or a type of woman for a particular reason. The reason is that the women the hatred is directed toward don't act in accordance with beliefs the misogynist has about how women should think and behave.
Misogyny can be defined as the characterizing of women as bad or dangerous. However, for purposes of discussion about domestic abuse, a more useful definition is that misogyny is the characterization of feminine traits and female sexuality as bad and dangerous. 