Dad was diagnosed with progressive bulbar palsy last week. Hi to everyone, my dad was diagnosed last week with PBP just 8 weeks after being told that his EMG was ok. 
Bulbar Onset – ALS. ALS is like Niagara Falls, in that they are both relentless in their assault as they erode the foundation of that which supports them. Patients with bulbar onset ALS make up an unusual group because of the progressive and multi-system nature of their illness. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Progressive bulbar palsy is a disorder that damages the bulbar muscles in the cerebral cortex, spinal cord, and brain stem of an afflicted person. It is classified as a motor neuron disease (MND). 
Additional signs and symptoms of progressive supranuclear palsy vary and may mimic those of Parkinson's disease and dementia. These signs and symptoms worsen as the disease advances, and may include: 1  Stiffness and awkward movements. 2  Falling. 3  Problems with speech and swallowing. 4  Sensitivity to light. 5  Sleep disturbances. 
(April 2007). Bulbar palsy refers to impairment of function of the cranial nerves IX, X, XI and XII, which occurs due to a lower motor neuron lesion either at nuclear or fascicular level in the medulla oblongata or from lesions of the lower cranial nerves outside the brainstem. 
Overview. 1  A bulbar palsy is a lower motor neuron lesion of cranial nerves IX, X and XII. 2  A pseudobulbar palsy is an upper motor neuron lesion of cranial nerves IX, X and XII. Pseudobulbar palsy. The clinical features include: 1  Gag reflex – increased or normal. 2  Tongue – spastic. “ 3 it cannot be protruded, lies on the floor of the mouth and is small and tight”. 4  Palatal movement – absent
Pseudobulbar palsy is characterized by the inability to control facial muscles, including the tongue. This may manifest as: 1  dysarthria (slowed or slurred speech). 2  dysphagia (difficulty swallowing). 
Common Causes: Progressive bulbar palsy. Some of the possible common medical causes of Progressive bulbar palsy may include: 1  Trauma. 2  Kennedy disease. 3  Brain stem glioma. 4  Motor neuron disease. 5  Guillain Barre disease. 6  Syringobulbia. The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Progressive bulbar palsy. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Trauma. 2  Kennedy disease.