Flirting by text takes a bit of finesse, but with a little practice and know how, any guy can master it, says Dating Expert Carlos Xuma in his new report, How To Text Flirt. How To Text Flirt Without Looking Desperate. Carlos Xuma-How To Text Flirt. San Mateo, CA (PRWEB) July 17, 2012. “Learning how to text flirt with a girl is simply a matter of learning a few tips and techniques,” Carlos Xuma says in his report on texting. “Because a guy can’t convey tone easily — or at all — through texting, it is often difficult to flirt with just the written word.”. 
Answer: I know you probably really like this guy you recently met and you want to text or talk to him all the time if you could – BUT DON’T DO IT – unless you want to chase him away. Girls make the very common mistake of texting guys way too much. Here’s my tips for knowing how often to text your hottie. First of all, you should always let the guy chase you by texting you first. You want to have high worth in his eyes.
This means that you should not only be able to flirt with your crush in person, but through your text messages. If you want to flirt through texting, you have to know how to be playful, witty, and charming in just a sentence or two. Read on from step one below. 1 Remember, texting won't mean as much to the person who you are flirting with as it would in real life. 2  Use the 1-6 min reply rule. 3  Don't text back immediately. 4  Don't try to get someone to like you just ove
1 If you don't text back she will think you don't like her and she will move on. 2  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. Tips. 1  Joke with her; girls like humour. 2  Don't be afraid to text back! 3  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. 4  Bad grammar drives certain people up the wall.
Tips. 1  Joke with her; girls like humour. 2  Don't be afraid to text back! 3  If you don't text back she will think you don't like her and she will move on. 4  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. Tips. 1  Joke with her; girls like humour. 2  Don't be afraid to text back! 3  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. 4  Bad grammar drives certain people up the wall.
Text messaging is the flirtation tool of the millennium and it's quickly becoming a major part of communication in a relationship. Gone are the days when a crush would call to ask about your day. Now he--or she--sends you a text message. Let your potential sweetheart know you're ready to play the game by flirting right back on your cellphone. Step 1. Make smiley faces or frowny faces so your guy or girl knows your current mood. Instead of saying that you're happy or sad, let an emoticon speak for you.
Make it personal. When flirting with a guy over text messaging, use his name once every few texts, especially when you’re saying something complimentary or cute. This makes the exchange of texts so much more personal and intimate. And if you do have a pet name for him, make sure you use that often too. Absence of audio and visual cues. Know when to sign off. If you want to flirt with a guy over text, you need to keep it interesting. Once the conversation starts to get even a tad bit boring, end it and tell him that you’ll text him back later.
Teasing over text is a great way to flirt with your crush. You can be a little bit playful and make fun of your crush, and let your crush make fun of you back. This shows that you don't take yourself too seriously and that you're invested in the person you're texting. 1 Remember, texting won't mean as much to the person who you are flirting with as it would in real life. 2  Use the 1-6 min reply rule. 3  Don't text back immediately. 4  Don't try to get someone to like you just over text messages.
1 Joke with her; girls like humour. 2  Don't be afraid to text back! 3  If you don't text back she will think you don't like her and she will move on. 4  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. Tips. 1  Joke with her; girls like humour. 2  Don't be afraid to text back! 3  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. 4  Bad grammar drives certain people up the wall.
1 Don't be afraid to text back! 2  If you don't text back she will think you don't like her and she will move on. 3  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. Tips. 1  Joke with her; girls like humour. 2  Don't be afraid to text back! 3  If she isn't responding to your texts, or isn't replying in a flirty way it's probably not a good idea to keep flirting with her. 4  Bad grammar drives certain people up the wall.