The AAP recommends that babies be exclusively breastfed for about the first 6 months of life. This means your baby needs no additional foods (except Vitamin D) or fluids unless medically indicated. Babies should continue to breastfeed for a year and for as long as is mutually desired by the mother and baby. If you and your baby are healthy after birth, it is best to breastfeed within the first hour after delivery. While in the hospital, keep the baby with you in your room so you can learn his hunger cues and respond promptly. Some newborns feed as often as every 1.5 hours, while others feed about every 3 hours.
A newborn's tummy is very small, especially in the early days. Once breastfeeding is established, exclusively breastfed babies who are 1 to 6 months old take in between 19 and 30 ounces of breastmilk each day. If you breastfeed your baby eight times a day, your baby will get around 3 ounces per feeding. But every baby is different. The Newborn Tummy. At birth, the baby's stomach can comfortably digest what would fit in a hazelnut (about 1 to 2 teaspoons). Then, breastfeed your baby at least eight to 12 times every 24 hours so that you will make plenty of milk. This means that in the first few days after birth, your baby will likely need to breastfeed about every one to two hours during the day and a few times at night. Healthy babies develop their own feeding patterns.
IF YOU BREASTFEED YOUR BABY FOR 4–6 WEEKS, you will have eased him through the most critical part of his infancy. Newborns who are not breastfed are much more likely to get sick or be hospitalised, and have many more digestive problems than breastfed babies. IF YOUR CHILD WEANS WHEN SHE IS READY, you can feel confident that you have met your baby's physical and emotional needs in a very normal, healthy way. In cultures where there is no pressure to wean, children tend to breastfeed for at least 2 years.
If you nurse for 3-6 months: 1  Your baby will be healthier than the baby who is formula fed. 2  Studies have found that babies who were exclusively breastfed for at least four months had half as many ear infections as formula fed babies. 3  Nursing can help you lose the extra weight you put on during pregnancy. 
Weaning may be fairly easy at this age ... but then, so is breastfeeding! If you want to avoid weaning this early, be sure that, from the start, you breastfeed willingly to provide comfort, not just to provide food. IF YOU BREASTFEED YOUR BABY FOR ONE YEAR, you can avoid the expense and bother of artificial baby milk. Her one-year-old body can probably handle most of the family foods your family enjoys. Many of the health benefits this year of breastfeeding has given your child will last her whole life. IF YOUR CHILD WEANS WHEN SHE IS READY, you can feel confident that you have met your baby's physical and emotional needs in a very normal, healthy way. In cultures where there is no pressure to wean, children tend to breastfeed for at least 2 years.
IF YOU BREASTFEED YOUR BABY FOR 9 MONTHS, you will have seen him through the fastest and most important brain and body development of his life on the food that was designed for him — your milk. Breastfeeding for at least this long will help ensure better performance all through his school years. IF YOUR CHILD WEANS WHEN SHE IS READY, you can feel confident that you have met your baby's physical and emotional needs in a very normal, healthy way. In cultures where there is no pressure to wean, children tend to breastfeed for at least 2 years.
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that breastfeeding continue for at least 12 months, and thereafter for as long as mother and baby desire. Healthy breastfed infants typically put on weight more slowly than formula fed infants in the first year of life. 4-5 Formula fed infants gain weight more rapidly after about 3 months of age.
How long should a mother breastfeed? The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that breastfeeding continue for at least 12 months, and thereafter for as long as mother and baby desire. The World Health Organization recommends continued breastfeeding up to 2 years of age or beyond. Healthy breastfed infants typically put on weight more slowly than formula fed infants in the first year of life. 4-5 Formula fed infants gain weight more rapidly after about 3 months of age.
How long you can safely keep expressed breast milk depends on the storage method. Consider these general guidelines for healthy infants: 1  Room temperature. 2  Freshly expressed breast milk can be kept at room temperature for up to six hours. 3  However, use or proper storage within four hours is optimal. 4  If the room is especially warm, the limit is also four hours. 5  Insulated cooler. 1 Freshly expressed breast milk can be stored in the back of the refrigerator for up to five days in clean conditions. 2  However, use or freezer storage within three days is optimal. 3  Deep freezer. 4  Freshly expressed breast milk can be stored in the back of a deep freezer for up to 12 months.