Can Be a Sign of More Problems. The problem of Statin Drugs Muscle Weakness and/or muscle pain is a condition that is technically known as 'Statin Induced Myopathy' and occurs in a certain percentage of people that take the Cholesterol lowering 'Statin medications'. If it is not, then the risk of side effects such as Statin Drugs Muscle Weakness, liver problems, muscle pain, muscle damage, poor memory and other Statin Side Effects may not be worth such risks.
Although mild muscle pain is a relatively common side effect of statins, some people who take statin medications to lower their cholesterol may have severe muscle pain. This intense pain is a symptom of rhabdomyolysis (rab-doe-my-OL-ih-sis), a rare condition that causes muscle cells to break down. 
Reports of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis with statins are a reminder to prescribers to measure creatine kinase (CK) levels in patients presenting with muscle pain or weakness. A clinical diagnosis of myopathy is made when there is muscle pain or weakness accompanied by a creatine kinase (CK) level more than ten times the upper limit of normal. Rhabdomyolysis is a severe form of myopathy with muscle breakdown leading to myoglobinuria, which may result in renal failure and death.
Muscle pain and damage The most common statin side effect is muscle pain. You may feel this pain as a soreness, tiredness or weakness in your muscles. The pain can be a mild discomfort, or it can be severe enough to make your daily activities difficult. 
The authors go on to say: “In these patients, statins are thought to cause a direct toxicity to muscle fibres that is self-limited, here referred to as toxic statin myopathy. In contrast, a small number of patients with concurrent statin use develop a progressive, autoimmune necrotizing myopathy. 
EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVE: Readers will assess possible statin-induced myopathy in their patients on statins Statin myopathy: A common dilemma not reflected in clinical trials■ ■ ABSTRACT Although statins are remarkably effective, they are still underprescribed because of concerns about muscle toxic-ity. These studies suggest the frequency of statin myopathy is 9% to 20%. 17–19 The Prediction of Muscular Risk in Ob-servational Conditions (PRIMO) study 20 was one of the largest and best-defined observa-tional studies of muscular symptoms in an un-selected population.
Management of Myopathy. For most patients, myopathy symptoms induced by statin therapy resolve relatively quickly; however, the results of the PRIMO study showed that it may take up to 2 months for resolution of symptoms. There is limited evidence regarding the treatment of statin-associated myopathy. While myopathy caused by statins can be mild and can be reversed when the medication is discontinued, it may present as rhabdomyolysis or severe muscle damage. There has also been interest in the use of CoQ 10, Chinese red rice yeast, and vitamin D as prevention and/or manage
This review emphasizes clinical aspects of statin myopathy that are important to the practicing physician. We will define myopathy, review its purported mechanisms, and describe a clinical approach to patients with possible toxicity, including risk factors, physical find-ings, and consideration of alternate diagnoses. These studies suggest the frequency of statin myopathy is 9% to 20%. 17–19 The Prediction of Muscular Risk in Ob-servational Conditions (PRIMO) study 20 was one of the largest and best-defined observa-tional studies of muscular symptoms in an un-selected population.
Myopathy is a general term for disease of the muscles, and it is usually characterized by weakness. In the setting of statin treatment, myopathy is used to describe any muscle problem, whether or not it is actually related to the statin use. Myalgia refers specifically to pain in the muscles. Muscle pain is often seen with statin-based myopathy; however, painless myopathy from statin therapy is also quite common and may be rather dangerous because it is often ignored.