The Reformed Church in America (RCA) is a mainline Reformed Protestant denomination in Canada and the United States. It has about 230,000 members, with the total declining in recent decades. The early settlers in the Dutch colony of New Netherland first held informal meetings for worship. In 1628 Jonas Michaelius organized the first Dutch Reformed congregation in New Amsterdam, now New York City, called the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church, now the Marble Collegiate Church. During Dutch rule, the RCA was the established church of the colony and was under the authority of the classis of Amsterdam
The Reformed Church in America is a confessional church. This means that, as a denomination, we affirm specific statements of belief called creeds and confessions. Along with most Christian churches, the Reformed Church accepts three creeds that were written in the first few centuries after Jesus' death: 
Christian Reformed Church Practices. Sacraments-The Christian Reformed Church practices two sacraments: baptism and the Lord's Supper. Baptism is performed by a minister or ministry associate, by sprinkling water on the forehead but may also be done by immersion. Adults who are baptized are called to make a public confession of faith. 
In 1819 it incorporated as the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church. The current name was chosen in 1867. The RCA is a member of the National Council of Churches (founding member), the World Council of Churches (WCC), Christian Churches Together, and the World Communion of Reformed Churches (WCRC). The early settlers in the Dutch colony of New Netherland first held informal meetings for worship. In 1628 Jonas Michaelius organized the first Dutch Reformed congregation in New Amsterdam, now New York City, called the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church, now the Marble Collegiate Church. During Dutch rule, the RCA was the established church of the colony and was under the authority of the classis of Amsterdam
Calvinism (also called the Reformed tradition, Reformed Christianity or the Reformed faith) is a major branch of Protestantism that follows the theological tradition and forms of Christian practice of John Calvin and other Reformation-era theologians. Calvinism can be a misleading term because the religious tradition it denotes is and has always been diverse, with a wide range of influences rather than a single founder. The movement was first called Calvinism by Lutherans who opposed it, and many within the tradition would prefer to use the word Reformed.
The Reformed Baptist Churches are a group of independent local congregations committed to historic Christianity and in particular, historic Baptist principles. Yes, we are Baptists with a difference. Let us explain. The formal, doctrinal basis, (secondary to the Bible), of Reformed Baptist Churches is the 1689 Baptist Confession of Faith. We are historically in the Baptist tradition. We believe in the baptism of believers only.
Question: What is the Reformed Church, and what do they believe?. Answer: There are two main branches within the Reformed Church family tree in America: Dutch Reformed and German Reformed. Both branches represent churches that separated from the Roman Catholic Church as part of the Protestant Reformation in Europe. The German Reformed Church was formed in 1725 near Philadelphia and eventually took the name Reformed Church in the US (RCUS). One of the great leaders of this church was Philip Schaff, who was a highly respected writer and editor.
Over the past several weeks, the RCA has supported mission partners and co-workers as they work with refugees across Europe and the Middle East. Carolyn Otterness, who serves with her husband in partnership with the Reformed Church in Hungary, has seen the fruit of this support. 
In 1867, the name was changed to the Reformed Church in America. The Reformed Church in America has over 300,000 members and is a founding member of the National Council of Churches and the World Council of Churches. The German Reformed Church was formed in 1725 near Philadelphia and eventually took the name Reformed Church in the US (RCUS). One of the great leaders of this church was Philip Schaff, who was a highly respected writer and editor.