Sasuke Uchiha (うちはサスケ, Uchiha Sasuke) is one of the last surviving members of Konohagakure 's Uchiha clan. Since his childhood, he made it his goal to exact revenge against his older brother, Itachi, who had slaughtered their entire clan. 1 Sasuke is the second character alongside Rock Lee to have their own spin-off manga, which is called Sasuke Uchiha's Sharingan Legend. 2  It is also created by Masashi Kishimoto's assistant Kenji Taira. 3  During Karin 's anime-only Infinite Tsukuyomi dream, she imagines Sasuke as the Sixth Hokage.
Rank #2. Sasuke is a genius young ninja who graduated at the top of his class from the Konoha Academy. He is the last surviving member of his family, the Uchiha clan, except for his older brother, Itachi. Sasuke is driven by his hatred for Itachi, his desire for revenge, and his intention to kill his sibling. 
When he first met Uzumaki Naruto back in the Ninja Academy, Sasuke never wanted to befriend Naruto, knowing that he was an orphan right from the beginning. Sasuke even consider Naruto's dream of becoming Hokage, as nothing but a hopeless task that could never be achieved. As a true genius ninja and member of the Uchiha, Sasuke has great proficiency in Fire Release nature manipulation. By age 7, he had already mastered his clan's rite of passage technique, the Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique.
Uchiha Sasuke (うちはサスケ) is the last surviving member of the Uchiha clan. He becomes a shinobi so he could one day grow strong enough to exact revenge on his older brother, Uchiha Itachi, who had murder their entire clan. As a true genius ninja and member of the Uchiha, Sasuke has great proficiency in Fire Release nature manipulation. By age 7, he had already mastered his clan's rite of passage technique, the Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique.
Sasuke was conceived as a rival and foil to the series' titular character, Naruto Uzumaki. Sasuke's design caused difficulties for Kishimoto as he drew the manga scenes, but he has grown to enjoy drawing him. In the animated adaptations from the manga Sasuke has been voiced by Noriaki Sugiyama in Japanese and Yuri Lowenthal in the English dub. Several anime and manga publications have provided acclaim and criticism of Sasuke's character. While many reviewers have noted his cold and detached attitude and abilities, he has been viewed as a stereotypical rival in the mold of several similar characters in other shōnen manga
Sasuke Uchiha (うちは サスケ, Uchiha Sasuke) is a fictional character from the manga and anime franchise Naruto, created by Masashi Kishimoto. In the animated adaptations from the manga Sasuke has been voiced by Noriaki Sugiyama in Japanese and Yuri Lowenthal in the English dub. Several anime and manga publications have provided acclaim and criticism of Sasuke's character. While many reviewers have noted his cold and detached attitude and abilities, he has been viewed as a stereotypical rival in the mold of several similar characters in other shōnen manga
Sasuke is one of the several surviving members of the Uchiha clan, an infamous and powerful extended family of ninjas who were allied to the village of Konohagakure, before being massacred by Sasuke's older brother, Itachi Uchiha, before the series' start. In the animated adaptations from the manga Sasuke has been voiced by Noriaki Sugiyama in Japanese and Yuri Lowenthal in the English dub. Several anime and manga publications have provided acclaim and criticism of Sasuke's character. While many reviewers have noted his cold and detached attitude and abilities, he has been viewed as a stereotypical rival in the mold of several similar characters in other shōnen manga
(July 2012). Manga Sarutobi Sasuke (まんが猿飛佐助) is a 24-episode anime series about the young Sarutobi Sasuke, a legendary ninja. It was first aired from October 9, 1979, to April 29, 1980 on Tokyo 12 Channel (now TV Tokyo), and was later dubbed in several languages