Compared with the amount of arsenic in infusion, more organic arsenic species were found in the original tea leaf samples. The contents of extractable inorganic arsenic in tea leaf samples were in the range below the detection limit to 226 ng/g. The results of arsenic leaching characters interpreted that arsenic contents and species in tea infusion were affected by extraction time and temperature. Longer infusion time means longer touch time of the extractant with samples, which can increase the arsenic concentration in tea infusion.
2.1 Arsenic is found in the natural environment in some abundance in the Earth’s crust and in small quantities in rock, soil, water and air. It is present in many different minerals. About one third of the arsenic in the atmosphere comes from natural sources, such as volcanoes, and the rest comes from man-made sources. 
All brewed tea and tea leaves had detectable arsenic with Chinese oolong teas (organic or regular) having the highest levels. Levels in all teas ranged from 0.06 μ gm to 1.12 μ gm/L of tea steeped for 3 minutes to 0.08 to 1.27 μ gm/L of tea steeped for 15 minutes. Minerals Found in Tea. In our study 4 cups of tea may supply as much as 1% of daily calcium requirements, 5% of magnesium requirements, 4-5% of daily potassium requirements and 1–1.6% of phosphorus requirements using distilled water. See Table 1.
Arsenic is a natural element that can be found in rocks and soil, water, air, and in plants and animals. It can also be released into the environment from some agricultural and industrial sources. Although it is sometimes found in its pure form as a steel grey metal, arsenic is usually part of chemical compounds. The highest levels of arsenic (in all forms) in foods can be found in seafood, rice, rice cereal (and other rice products), mushrooms, and poultry, although many other foods can contain low levels of arsenic. Rice is of particular concern because it is a major part of the diet in many parts of the world.
In fact, a recent Canadian study found that Chinese oolong had some of the highest levels of arsenic, lead and cadmium compared to the other types of tea studied – namely organic and regular green tea, organic white tea, and organic and regular black tea. Black tea is more oxidized than green, white and oolong teas, and is one of the most common teas consumed throughout the world. Unfortunately, studies have found that brewed black tea contains cadmium, lead and arsenic. This is likely due to the use of coal-fired power plants in China, which are in the vicinity of tea plants. These coal plants provide 70 percent of China’s energy
Arsenic is a toxicant that’s found naturally in soil and water. It is a carcinogen, of course, and in high levels, it can be fatal. In lower levels, it can create symptoms similar to what the wife above experienced: nausea, vomiting, abnormal heart rhythms, pins and needle sensations in hands and feet. 1. Drink Green Tea! Yes, my favorite is back to protect us yet again! In a study which measured the protective effect of not only green, but also black tea, it was found that both Green and Black Tea are no match for Arsenic! So, enjoy your rice with a glass of Green Tea.
ARSENIC Overview Information. Arsenic is a trace element. It is found in several foods including seafood, poultry, grains (especially rice), bread, cereal products, mushrooms, and dairy products. Some forms of arsenic are used as medicine. 
Arsenic is a naturally occurring mineral found in soil, bedrock, and water. In its pure form, arsenic is a silver-gray or white brittle metal. Arsenic has no odor and is almost tasteless. Arsenic and its compounds have a variety of commercial uses. Arsenic level between 10 ppb and 500 ppb*. Do not drink your water or use it to prepare foods that require a lot of water (e.g., infant formula, soups, Jell-O, rice, coffee, tea) if the arsenic level is above 10 ppb. Washing foods and dishes in the water is safe, and is not a significant source of exposure