Directions. Slice zucchini and squash very thin. Heat olive oil and saute onion until tender. Add zucchini and squash. Toss until tender and crisp. Add salt and pepper. Serve immediately (if it sits to long it will become mushy). 
Ready In. 1  Preheat grill for medium-high heat. 2  Place the zucchini, and squash on a large sheet of aluminum foil, and dot with butter. 3  Place the foil pack on the preheated grill, and cook 20 minutes, until vegetables are tender. 1 Preheat grill for medium-high heat. 2  Place the zucchini, and squash on a large sheet of aluminum foil, and dot with butter. 3  Season with salt, pepper, and garlic powder. 4  Seal vegetables in the foil. 5
In a culinary context, zucchini is treated as a vegetable; it is usually cooked and presented as a savory dish or accompaniment. Botanically, zucchini are fruit, a type of botanical berry, being the swollen ovary of the zucchini flower. Zucchini, like all squash, has its ancestry in the Americas. However, the varieties of squash typically called zucchini were developed in Italy, many generations after their introduction from the Americas.
Preparation. Cut 2 medium-size yellow squash and 2 medium-size zucchini into 1/4-inch-thick slices, and chop 1 small onion. Saute sauté vegetables in 1 tablespoon hot oil in a large skillet over-medium high heat 5. Minutes add 1 minced garlic, clove and saute sauté. 1 minute sprinkle mixture with salt and pepper. To Taste. southern living
Zucchini and Summer Squash Basics. Famously prolific summer squash plants bring plenty of zucchini, yellow crookneck, and pattypan squash into our lives at this time of year. The mild-tasting, versatile vegetable (okay, technically a fruit) is equally delicious in savory and sweet dishes. 
Cut 2 medium-size yellow squash and 2 medium-size zucchini into 1/4-inch-thick slices, and chop 1 small onion. Saute sauté vegetables in 1 tablespoon hot oil in a large skillet over-medium high heat 5. minutes Cut 2 medium-size yellow squash and 2 medium-size zucchini into 1/4-inch-thick slices, and chop 1 small onion. Saute sauté vegetables in 1 tablespoon hot oil in a large skillet over-medium high heat 5. Minutes add 1 minced garlic, clove and saute sauté. 1 minute sprinkle mixture with salt and pepper. To Taste. southern living
1 Chop zucchini and yellow squash and put into large bowl. 2  Drizzle olive oil over squash. 3  Mix with a large spoon until squash is evenly coated. 4  Pour squash into roasting pan and spread it out until it evenly covers the pan. 5  Bake 15 to 20 minutes, stirring once until cooked through. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 450. 2  Grease roasting pan with olive oil. 3  Chop zucchini and yellow squash and put into large bowl. 4  Drizzle olive oil over squash. 5  Pour squash into roasting pan and spread it out until it evenly covers the pan. 6
Zucchini (/zuːˈkiːniː/) or courgette (/kʊərˈʒɛt/) is a summer squash which can reach nearly a meter in length, but which is usually harvested at half that size or less. A fully grown courgette is referred to as a marrow. Along with certain other squashes and pumpkins, it belongs to the species Cucurbita pepo. Zucchini, like all squash, has its ancestry in the Americas. However, the varieties of squash typically called zucchini were developed in Italy, many generations after their introduction from
Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat grill for medium-high heat. 2  Place the zucchini, and squash on a large sheet of aluminum foil, and dot with butter. 3  Season with salt, pepper, and garlic powder. 4  Seal vegetables in the foil. 5  Place the foil pack on the preheated grill, and cook 20 minutes, until vegetables are tender. 1 Preheat grill for medium-high heat. 2  Place the zucchini, and squash on a large sheet of aluminum foil, and dot with butter. 3  Season with salt, pepper, and garlic powder. 4  Seal vegetables in the foil.