Tymoshenko was re-arrested (while in prison) on 8 December 2011, after a Ukrainian court ordered her indefinite arrest as part of the investigation of alleged tax evasion and theft of government funds (between 1996 and 2000) by United Energy Systems of Ukraine. Again the European Union showed concern over this. Tymoshenko was a candidate in the Ukrainian presidential elections of 2010, but lost that election to Viktor Yanukovych (Tymoshenko received 45.47% of the votes in the second and final round of the election, 3% less than her rival).
In the 2014 Ukrainian presidential election Tymoshenko received 12.81% of the vote, coming in second place after Petro Poroshenko who won the election with 54.7%. Tymoshenko finished second in the Ukrainian presidential election of 2010 runoff with a 3.5% loss to the winner, Viktor Yanukovych. Tymoshenko was a candidate in the Ukrainian presidential elections of 2010, but lost that election to Viktor Yanukovych (Tymoshenko received 45.47% of the votes in the second and final round of the election, 3% less than her rival).
Please try again later. A Ukrainian court has ordered the arrest of the high-profile opposition politician, and former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. She's been on trial since June for allegedly exceeding her authority while signing gas deals with Russia in 2009. That was during her time in office as the country's PM. She has been arrested for contempt of court-accused of obstructing the questioning of witnesses
Tymoshenko was a well-known name for years in Ukraine, but she exploded to international prominence in 2004 for her role in the Orange Revolution. That year, Yushchenko and now-exiled former president Viktor Yanukovych ran for the Ukrainian presidency. Tymoshenko served only three years of her seven-year sentence, released on Feb. 22 as part of a deal signed by Yanukovych upon leaving office. Since her release, Tymoshenko has met with European leaders Angela Merkel and Donald Tusk at a political conference in Dublin.
Second, and returning to the issue of the importance of Tymoshenko and the link with the free trade agreement with the EU. I think you have to ask yourself why she is in jail. Was it really because of the signing of the 2009 gas deal, or for other reasons, i.e. that she poses a political threat to the incumbent regime. If the EU signs the free trade agreement with Tymoshenko still in jail this would suggest that EU principles in terms of respect and support for basic democratic rights are somehow up for negotiation.
Soon, Tymoshenko faced criminal charges for signing a gas deal with Russia while she was prime minister in 2009. Yanu­kovych described the deal as overly expensive. Now Ukraine’s financial problems are complicated by a $1.3 billion gas debt to Russia that Yanukovych blames on Tymo­shenko. Tymoshenko is a former two-term prime minister and founder of the Fatherland Party, the largest opposition party in Ukraine.
The first point is that Tymoshenko was not convicted for graft, but for exceeding her authority in signing the 2009 gas price agreement with Russia. If the EU signs the free trade agreement with Tymoshenko still in jail this would suggest that EU principles in terms of respect and support for basic democratic rights are somehow up for negotiation.
Tymoshenko is the leader of the All-Ukrainian Union Fatherland political party that has 19 seats in parliament and has Tymoshenko as its parliamentary faction leader. In the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election the party had received the second most votes, winning 101 of parliament's 450 seats. Tymoshenko was a candidate in the Ukrainian presidential elections of 2010, but lost that election to Viktor Yanukovych (Tymoshenko received 45.47% of the votes in the second and final round of the election, 3% less than her rival).