col·lec·tive. adj. 1. Assembled into or viewed as a whole. 2. Of, relating to, characteristic of, or made by a number of people acting as a group: a collective decision. n. 1. An undertaking, such as a business operation, set up on the principles or system of collectivism. 2. A collective noun. col·lec′tive·ly adv
The adjective COLLECTIVE has 3 senses: 1. done by or characteristic of individuals acting together. 2. forming a whole or aggregate. 3. set up on the principle of collectivism or ownership and production by the workers involved usually under the supervision of a government. Familiarity information: COLLECTIVE used as an adjective is uncommon.
Writers who have influenced the idea of collective intelligence include Douglas Hofstadter (1979), Peter Russell (1983), Tom Atlee (1993), Pierre Levy (lévy), 1994 Howard (bloom), 1995 Francis (heylighen), 1995 Douglas, Engelbart Cliff, Joslyn Ron, Dembo Gottfried-Mayer (kress). 2003 I'll add the following indispensable characteristic to this definition: The basis and goal of collective intelligence is mutual recognition and enrichment of individuals rather than the cult of fetishized or hypostatized communities..
Collective attention is: the coordinated, creative attention of more than 1 person. It is scarce and it is horrendously badly allocated in the economy today. The free-agent planet under-organizes it, and the industrial economy over-organizes it. That’s the story of C, the optimal size of a creative group. But one effect is not a red herring, and that is the fact that the staircase of opportunity puts you in increasingly intense crucibles of collective co-creative attention. The Distillation Effect. Start with 1728 (12^3) people and let them learn widget-making in144 groups of 12, for 3000 hours.
Types of collective intelligence. Collective intelligence is shared or group intelligence that emerges from the collaboration, collective efforts, and competition of many individuals and appears in consensus decision making. I'll add the following indispensable characteristic to this definition: The basis and goal of collective intelligence is mutual recognition and enrichment of individuals rather than the cult of fetishized or hypostatized communities..
Full Definition of COLLECTIVE. 1. 2. a: formed by collecting: aggregated b of a fruit: multiple. 3. a: of, relating to, or being a group of individuals. 4. : marked by similarity among or with the members of a group. 5. : collectivized or characterized by collectivism. Full Definition of COLLECTIVE. 1. : a collective body: group. 2. : a cooperative unit or organization; specifically: collective farm. 3. : a helicopter control system governing lift. See collective defined for English-language learners.
Collectivism. Collectivism means the subjugation of the individual to a group—whether to a race, class or state does not matter. Collectivism holds that man must be chained to collective action and collective thought for the sake of what is called “the common good.”. Collectivism holds that, in human affairs, the collective—society, the community, the nation, the proletariat, the race, etc.—is the unit of reality and the standard of value. On this view, the individual has reality only as part of the group, and value only insofar as he serves it.
1 Collective Attention: a group of people paying attention to the same thing, with the group size varying in size from 2 to 6 billion. 2  Arms Race: The effect by which groups paying collective attention to something force individuals within the group to rapidly improve their skills and separate the group from outsiders. But one effect is not a red herring, and that is the fact that the staircase of opportunity puts you in increasingly intense crucibles of collective co-creative attention. The Distillation Effect. Start with 1728 (12^3) people and let them learn widget-making in144 groups of 12, for 3000 hours.