A buyer brokerage or buyer agency is the practice of real estate brokers and their agents representing a buyer in a real estate transaction rather than, by default, representing the seller either directly or as a sub-agent. (In some cases where dual agency is permitted by law, even the listing broker may represent the buyer). If the buyer does not enter into this agreement, he/she remains a customer of the broker who is then the sub-agent of seller's broker.
This is a buyers agent. It is a form of representation-any agent can act as one. To take it a step further, you could look for an exclusive buyers agent. They specialize in buyers and do not represent sellers at all. Linda Walters is a Realtor® with Sage Realty LLC in Wayne, PA. Most buyer’s agents do not cost the buyer a commission since most are paid by the seller. Beverley Hourlier is a Realtor® with Hilltop Chateau Realty in San Diego, CA. A: You are not required to use the listing agent to see any house.
The exact legal definition of the term Buyer's Agent will vary a little bit depending on what state or country you are in, but, in general, a buyer's agent is defined as a principal-agent relationship in which a broker is the agent for a buyer, with fiduciary responsibilities to the buyer. 
A buyers agent works for the buyer. The agents fiducary responsibility is with the buyer, not the other agent, not with the seller. A buyers agent tries to get the best deal for the buyer, protects the buyer with proper paperwork, disclosures, inspections and the closing process. The Listing agent or Sellers agent represents the interest of the seller. This can be confusing to a buyer and often a buyer will call a listing agent because they want to see a house, call the number on the sign or the listing ad online and they end up with the Seller's agent.
Home buyers should always have their own agent. Buyer agents work to negotiate the best terms and price for the buyer. Best of all, the buyer agent’s services are free to the buyer. Most people think they have to pay a sales commission. The truth is this: only the seller pays the commission. Whether a buyer uses an agent or not, the seller still pays the commission.
A buyer’s agent is an agent who works with buyers, not sellers. The listing agent’s first responsibility is with the seller. If you use the same agent, it is considered dual agency. In other words, that agent will represent both sides. Some question whether an agent can represent both sides fairly. Most buyer’s agents do not cost the buyer a commission since most are paid by the seller. Beverley Hourlier is a Realtor® with Hilltop Chateau Realty in San Diego, CA. A: You are not required to use the listing agent to see any house.
A buyers agent by definition works for the buyer. The buyers agent fiduciary responsibility is to the buyer. Which means the buyer is being represented in the transaction. Finding the property writing the offer and negotiating the sale and handing the keys to the buyer when the transaction is complete. The Listing agent or Sellers agent represents the interest of the seller. This can be confusing to a buyer and often a buyer will call a listing agent because they want to see a house, call the number on the sign or the listing ad online and they end up with the Seller's agent.
If an agent is not a buyer's agent, they represent the seller and work in the best interest of the seller (broker's agent and seller's agent). As a buyer's agent, the client is the buyer where the agent works in the best interest of the buyer. A contract is signed stating the condition and terms of this relationship. This agent has the ability to pull comparatives and guide you as to the right price to offer for a home, verify tax information, etc. The Listing agent or Sellers agent represents the interest of the seller. This can be confusing to a buyer and often a buyer will call a listing agent because they want to see a house, call the number on the sign or the listing ad online and they end up with the Seller's agent.
This has to do with agency. See, if a buyer goes directly to the listing agent, they are dealing with an agent that has conflicting responsibilities. Their job is to get a good price for the seller and they may not zealously represent the interests of the buyer. Those who market themselves as Buyer's Agents indicate they are only working for the buyer in a real estate transaction. The commission is still paid by the seller, no matter what they say in their marketing (with extremely rare exceptions).
Buyer's Agent. The buyer's agent is the individual that represents buyers when they purchase a home. This agent negotiates with the seller's agent (the listing agent) to come to a final price agreed upon by the buyer and seller. The buyer's agent is paid once the deal goes through. In the real estate agent community, the buyer's agent is often referred to as the selling agent..