Meaning: The act of exhibiting. Classified under: Nouns denoting acts or actions. Context example: a remarkable exhibition of musicianship. Hypernyms (exhibition is a kind of...): demonstration; presentation; presentment (a show or display; the act of presenting something to sight or view). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of exhibition): production ((law) the act of exhibiting in a court of law). rodeo (an exhibition of cowboy skills). Synonyms: expo; exhibition; exposition. Hypernyms (exhibition is a kind of...): accumulation; aggregation; assemblage; collection (several things grouped together or considered as a whole). Domain category: art; artistic creation; artistic production (the creation of beautiful or significant things).
1. a public display of art, products, skills, activities, etc: a judo exhibition. 2. the act of exhibiting or the state of being exhibited. 3. make an exhibition of oneself to behave so foolishly in public that one excites notice or ridicule. 
An art exhibition. An art exhibition. The definition of an exhibition is a large public showing or display of art, products or athletic skills. 1  An example of an exhibition is an artist showing his work for two nights at a gallery. 2  An example of an exhibition is a group of gymnasts showing their skills to the public. 1
An art exhibition is traditionally the space in which art objects (in the most general sense) meet an audience. The exhibit is universally understood to be for some temporary period unless, as is rarely true, it is stated to be a permanent exhibition. A vanity gallery is an exhibition space of works in a gallery that charges the artist for use of the for space. Temporary museum exhibitions typically display items from the museum's own collection on a particular period, theme or topic, supplemented by loans from other collections, mostly those of other museums.
Exhibition. Exhibition is the retail branch of the film industry. It involves not the production or the distribution of motion pictures, but their public screening, usually for paying customers in a site devoted to such screenings, the movie theater. 
An exhibition, in the most general sense, is an organized presentation and display of a selection of items. In practice, exhibitions usually occur within museums, galleries and exhibition halls, and World's Fairs. Exhibitions range from an extraordinarily large event such as a World's Fair exposition to small one-artist solo shows or a display of just one item. Curators are sometimes involved as the people who select the items in an exhibition.
1. a public display of art, products, skills, activities, etc: a judo exhibition. 2. the act of exhibiting or the state of being exhibited. 3. make an exhibition of oneself to behave so foolishly in public that one excites notice or ridicule. 4. (Education) Brit an allowance or scholarship awarded to a student at a university or school. (ˌɛk səˈbɪʃ ən). n. ex·hi·bi·tion. n. 1. The act or an instance of exhibiting. 2. Something exhibited; an exhibit. 3. A large-scale public showing, as of art objects or industrial or agricultural products. 4. Chiefly British A grant given to a scholar by a school or university.
The word exhibition is usually, but not always, the word used for a collection of items. Sometimes exhibit is synonymous with exhibition, but exhibit generally refers to a single item being exhibited within an exhibition. Exhibitions range from an extraordinarily large event such as a World's Fair exposition to small one-artist solo shows or a display of just one item. Curators are sometimes involved as the people who select the items 
Though exhibitions are common events, the concept of an exhibition is quite wide and encompasses many variables. Exhibitions range from an extraordinarily large event such as a World's Fair exposition to small one-artist solo shows or a display of just one item. Curators are sometimes involved as the people who select the items in an exhibition.