The word part that completes the medical term meaning deficiency of blood (flow), ______/emia, is: isch; Ischemia is a blood condition (-emia) characterized by deficient flow of oxygenated blood to the heart. It is caused by arterial blockage. The word root isch/ means deficiency, blockage. In the medical term cardiomegaly, the word root means: heart; To define the word root in the term cardiomegaly, first break down the word to find the word root: cardi + o + -megaly. Cardi/ is the word root meaning heart. Cardiomegaly means enlargement of
Systolic is the first, higher number; it represents the force of the heart pumping against the resistance offered by the blood vessels walls. Diastolic is the second, lower number; it represents the pressure against the blood vessels during the relaxation and filling phase of the heart beat. 
blood. the red fluid that circulates through the heart, arteries, capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them. It consists of a yellow, protein-rich fluid, the plasma, and the cellular elements including leukocytes, erythrocytes and platelets. Blood varies in color from a bright red in the arteries to a duller red in the veins. The total quantity of blood within an individual depends upon body weight; a person weighing 70 kg (154 lb) has about 4.5 liters of blood in the body.
The following are health and medical definitions of terms that appear in the Blood Clots article. Abdominal: Relating to the abdomen, the belly, that part of the body that contains all of ... Abdominal pain: Pain in the belly. 
Medical Definition of BLOOD. 1. : the fluid that circulates in the heart, arteries, capillaries, and veins of a vertebrate animal carrying nourishment and oxygen to and bringing away waste products from all parts of the body. 2. : a fluid of an invertebrate comparable to blood. 3. Full Definition of BLOOD. 1. a (1) : the fluid that circulates in the heart, arteries, capillaries, and veins of a vertebrate animal carrying nourishment and oxygen to and bringing away waste products from all parts of the body (2) : a comparable fluid of an invertebrate b: a fluid resembling blood. 2.
1. The fluid consisting of plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets that is circulated by the heart through the arteries and veins, carrying oxygen and nutrients to and waste materials away from all body tissues. 2. Blood varies in color from a bright red in the arteries to a duller red in the veins. The total quantity of blood within an individual depends upon body weight; a person weighing 70 kg (154 lb) has about 4.5 liters of blood in the body.
The medical term that means inflammation of the large blood vessels and heart is: angiocarditis; The medical term that means inflammation (-itis) of the blood vessels (angi/o) and heart (cardi/o) is angiocarditis. Cardiovalvulitis means inflammation of the valves of the heart. In the medical term cardiomegaly, the word root means: heart; To define the word root in the term cardiomegaly, first break down the word to find the word root: cardi + o + -megaly. Cardi/ is the word root meaning heart. Cardiomegaly means enlargement
Blood pressure (BP) is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels. When used without further specification, blood pressure usually refers to the arterial pressure in the systemic circulation. It is usually measured at a person's upper arm. Blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic (maximum) pressure over diastolic (minimum) pressure and is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). It is one of the vital signs along with respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature. Blood pressure that is low due to a disease state is called hypotension, and pressure that is consistently high is hypertension. Both have many causes which can range from mild to severe.