Artist: The Temptations. Title: Papa was a rolling stone. Album: All Directions. Label: Warwick, Miracle, Gordy, Motown, Atlantic, New Door/Universal. familybeats.org.  1 Papa Was a Rolling Stone by The Temptations (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 2  Music. 
Despite the commendable sales of The Temptations’ 1971 album Solid Rock, the single “Papa Was a Rolling Stone” might have been earliest and strongest impression made by two then new members. Richard Street had been in the Temptations’ orbit since the late 1950s and had replaced Paul Williams. Lyricist Barrett Strong had left Motown in 1972 and the words, without him, were less urbane and the tone became didactic. “Papa Was a Rolling Stone” hit the pop charts at #1 and hit the R&B charts at #5. In 1973 the song won the Temptations three Grammys, including one for Best R&B Song of the Year
1 The rap group Run-D.M.C. re-worked and sampled Papa Was A Rollin' Stone for their song Papa Crazy, off their 1988 album Tougher Than Leather. 2  David Lindley and his band El Rayo-X covered the song on their 1988 album Very Greasy. 1 As soon as they finished, the Temptations responded by singing the Tops' hit,  Baby I Need Your Loving 2  .
Papa Was a Rollin' Stone  is a psychedelic soul song, written by Motown songwriters Norman Whitfield and Barrett Strong as a single for Motown act The Undisputed Truth in 1971. This version of Papa was released as a single in early 1972, and peaked at number 63 on the pop charts and number 24 on the R&B charts. 1 As soon as they finished, the Temptations responded by singing the Tops' hit,  Baby I Need Your Loving 2  . The rap group Run-D.M.C. re-worked and sampled Papa Was A Rollin' Stone for their song Papa Crazy, off their 1988 album Tougher Than Leather.
A seven-minute edited version of Papa Was a Rollin' Stone was released as a single in September 1972. For this mix, congas were added to bolster the song's sparse percussion; this version appeared on the 1973 Anthology triple LP. 1 As soon as they finished, the Temptations responded by singing the Tops' hit,  Baby I Need Your Loving 2  . The rap group Run-D.M.C. re-worked and sampled Papa Was A Rollin' Stone for their song Papa Crazy, off their 1988 album Tougher Than Leather.
Edwards' father actually died on October third, and he was anything but a rolling stone. The elder Edwards was a minister, and gave his son a good upbringing. Whitfield chose the date simply because it fit well in the song; he had no idea when Edwards' father had died. The single was released with the song split into two parts: the A-side was the vocal version and runs 6:58; the B-side is the instrumental and goes 4:49. Even truncated for single release, the A-side was exceptionally long and remains one of the longest chart-toppers in Hot 100 history.
Papa was a rollin' stone, my son. Wherever he laid his hat was his home. And when he died all he left us was alone. Now listen to me... papa was a rollin' stone. Wherever he laid his hat was his home. And when he died all he left us was alone. Now..now..now... 
The Temptations who went into the studio in the summer of 1972 to record Papa Was a Rollin' Stone were a very different group than the one that released My Girl just seven years earlier. David Ruffin had long departed and was replaced by Dennis Edwards. Psychedelic soul was all over the radio, but Motown was keeping up with the times and producers Norman Whitfield and Barrett Strong wrote a stupefyingly funky song about an absentee father. Contrary to widespread belief, Dennis Edwards' father didn't die on the third of September; he died on the third of October.
Later that year, Whitfield, who also produced the song, took Papa Was a Rollin' Stone and remade it as a 12-minute record for The Temptations, which was a number-one hit on the Billboard Hot 100 and won three Grammy Awards in 1973. 1 As soon as they finished, the Temptations responded by singing the Tops' hit,  Baby I Need Your Loving 2  . The rap group Run-D.M.C. re-worked and sampled Papa Was A Rollin' Stone for their song Papa Crazy, off their 1988 album Tougher Than Leather.