NOTE: Even though Social Security’s full retirement age is no longer 65, you should sign up for Medicare three months before your 65th birthday. You can apply on our website at www.socialsecurity.gov. But, you apply for Medicare at Social Security, and we can give you general information about the Medicare program. Medicare has four parts • Hospital insurance (Part A) helps pay for inpatient care in a hospital or skilled nursing facility (following a hospital stay), some home health care and hospice care.
Thinkstock Images/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Generally, people become eligible for Medicare coverage at the age of 65. However, there are two circumstances in which you can get coverage at 62, or even sooner. In some cases, coverage will begin automatically. On the other hand, if your benefits started at age 61, you aren't Medicare-eligible until you turn 63. People who have been diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, are eligible for Medicare in the same month they get disability benefits.
They must elect this benefit. If you’re not already getting benefits, you should contact Social Security about three months before your 65th birthday to sign up for Medicare. You can sign up for Medicare even if you don’t plan to retire at age 65. But, you apply for Medicare at Social Security, and we can give you general information about the Medicare program. Medicare has four parts • Hospital insurance (Part A) helps pay for inpatient care in a hospital or skilled nursing facility (following a hospital stay), some home health care and hospice care.
If you sign up for Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) and/or Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period, your coverage start date will depend on your birthday. If you sign up within 6 months of your 65th birthday, your coverage will start the first day of the month you turn 65, or the month before you turn 65 (if your birthday is the first of the month). After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example.
Use this enrollment period to sign up for Medicare Part A and Part B at age 65 if: 1  you are retired or not working; or. 2  you do not have health insurance from an employer for whom you or your spouse is still working; or. 3  you live outside the United States and its territories and are not working. To sign up for Part A or B, call Social Security at 1-800-772-1213 and make an appointment for an interview, which can be done on the phone or at your local Social Security office. If English is not your first language, you can request an interpreter at no charge.
Medicare is our country’s health insurance program for people age 65 or older. People younger than age 65 with certain disabilities or permanent kidney failure can also qualify for Medicare. The program helps with the cost of health care, but it doesn’t cover all medical expenses or the cost of most long-term care. But, you apply for Medicare at Social Security, and we can give you general information about the Medicare program. Medicare has four parts • Hospital insurance (Part A) helps pay for inpatient care in a hospital or skilled nursing facility (following a hospital stay), some home health care and hospice care.
Note. You can sign up for free Part A (if you’re eligible) any time during or after your Initial Enrollment Period starts. If you sign up within 6 months of your 65th birthday, your coverage will start the first day of the month you turn 65, or the month before you turn 65 (if your birthday is the first of the month). After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example.
If you want Part B coverage to begin the month you turn age 65, youmust sign up for it during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period. Your Initial Enrollment Period begins 3 months before the month you turn. age 65. It lasts until 3 months after the month you turn age 65 (a total of 7. months). If you want Part B coverage to begin the month you turn age 65, you. must sign up for it during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period. If you wait until you are age 65, or sign up during the last 3 months of your. Initial Enrollment Period, your Part B start date will be delayed
1 ﻿﻿If you're not a U.S. citizen: At or beyond age 65, you can apply for Medicare during a seven-month individual enrollment period that ends three months after the month in which you have both established legal residency and lived in the United States for five years. To sign up for Part A or B, call Social Security at 1-800-772-1213 and make an appointment for an interview, which can be done on the phone or at your local Social Security office. If English is not your first language, you can request an interpreter at no charge.