A Pell Grant is money the U.S. federal government provides for students who need it to pay for college. It is an entitlement (awards are guaranteed if criteria are met). A Pell Grant is generally considered the foundation of a student's financial aid package, to which other forms of aid are added. The Federal Pell Grant program is administered by the United States Department of Education, which determines the student's financial need and through it, the student's Pell eligibility.
1 The maximum Pell grant for the 2015–16 award year (July 1, 2015, to June 30, 2016) is $5,775. 2  The amount depends on your financial need, costs to attend school, status as a full-time or part-time student, and plans to attend school for a full academic year or less. 1 The amount depends on your financial need, costs to attend school, status as a full-time or part-time student, and plans to attend school for a full academic year or less. 2  Learn more about Pell grants. 3  To apply, complete the FAFSA.
The deciding factor in Pell Grant eligibility is accreditation. Pell Grants will only be awarded to students at accredited universities or colleges. Students must also be working toward a bachelor’s degree; Pell Grants are not available for online masters or doctoral programs, even if they are accredited. Grants and scholarships are obviously preferable to loans if you are going to seek financial aid. You do not need to pay these monies back, and you can use them for a variety of educational purposes including tuition, books, and living expenses. However, not all grants or scholarships are available at all schools.
Federal Pell Grant. A Federal Pell Grant, unlike a loan, does not have to be repaid. Pell Grants are awarded only to undergraduate students who have not earned a bachelor's or a professional degree. Applicants must: 1  Be a U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident. 2  Have financial need as determined from an aid application.
Quick information on Pell grants: 1  A Federal Pell Grant, unlike a loan, does not have to be repaid. 2  The maximum Pell grant for the 2015–16 award year (July 1, 2015, to June 30, 2016) is $5,775. 1 The amount depends on your financial need, costs to attend school, status as a full-time or part-time student, and plans to attend school for a full academic year or less. 2  Learn more about Pell grants. 3  To apply, complete the FAFSA.
A Federal Pell Grant, unlike a loan, does not have to be repaid. Pell Grants are awarded to undergraduate students who have not earned a bachelor’s or professional degree. For many students, Pell Grants provide a foundation of financial aid to which other aid may be added. Although your pell grant may be disbursed to you on or around 10 days prior to first class day, your enrollment as of census day (12th class day) will ultimately determine the amount of your grant.
Pell Grant funds are not sent directly to you. Rather, they are sent to the school listed on your application for aid and applied toward tuition costs. If your costs do not equal the amount of the Pell Grant, the unused portion will be returned and not given to you. Pell Grant funds can never be used to pay personal expenses. Grants and scholarships are obviously preferable to loans if you are going to seek financial aid. You do not need to pay these monies back, and you can use them for a variety of educational purposes including tuition, books, and living expenses. However, not all grants or scholarships are available at all schools.
You do not have to accept all of the aid you are offered. When your school’s financial aid office sends you an award letter, they will ask you to indicate which financial aid you want to accept. It’s a good idea to start with aid that does not need to be repaid, such as grants and scholarships. Grants are money that doesn’t have to be repaid. 1  Federal Pell Grant: Undergraduates with financial need can receive a Federal Pell Grant for up to 12 semesters (or a total of 6 years). 2  Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant: For undergraduates with exceptional financial need.
The Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) program is for undergraduates with exceptional financial need. Pell Grant recipients with the lowest expected family contributions (EFCs) will be considered first for a FSEOG. Just like Pell Grants, the FSEOG does not have to be repaid. A Federal Pell Grant, unlike a loan, does not have to be repaid. Pell Grants are awarded only to undergraduate students who have not earned a bachelor's or a professional degree. Applicants must: 1  Be a U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident. 2  Have financial need as determined from an aid application.
A Pell Grant is money the government provides for students who need it to pay for college. Grants, unlike loans, do not have to be repaid. Eligible students receive a specified amount each year under this program. Over one-third of undergraduate students received a Pell Grant in 2013-14. The maximum Pell Grant for the 2014-15 award year is $5,730. The amount of the grant depends on your financial need and other factors, including the amount of time you attend college (whether a full academic year or less, and whether you attend full-time or part-time).