On paper, the idea of having Prince open for The Stones made sense. The Stones have had a history of black artists opening for them. Before Prince, Ike & Tina Turner, Stevie Wonder and Billy Preston all opened for The Stones. With his song Uptown, he damn near did. Mick went to see Prince's live show at The Ritz in New York. Impressed with Prince, it was Mick who wanted and got Prince as an opening act for the Stones upcoming tour. Prince was lined up for more than just those two shows in Los Angeles.
The 1981 Tour was the largest grossing tour of not only 1981, but for several years to come. The tour grossed $50 million in ticket sales when the average ticket price was $16. Roughly three million concert goers attended the concerts. The Stones set many ticket sales records that remain to this day unbroken. The tour indeed did turn out to be profitable: the Stones were estimated to have reaped about $22 million after expenses. The 1981 Tour also was an early milestone for the rock tour industry by selling advertising rights to Jōvan Musk. Jōvan paid $1 million to put their name on Rolling Stones tickets
The Rolling Stones ' American Tour 1981 was a concert tour of stadiums and arenas in the United States to promote the album Tattoo You. It was the largest grossing tour of 1981 with $50 million in ticket sales. The tour indeed did turn out to be profitable: the Stones were estimated to have reaped about $22 million after expenses. The 1981 Tour also was an early milestone for the rock tour industry by selling advertising rights to Jōvan Musk. Jōvan paid $1 million to put their name on Rolling Stones ticket
Jagger's career has spanned over 50 years, and he has been described as one of the most popular and influential frontmen in the history of rock & roll. His distinctive voice and performance, along with Keith Richards ' guitar style, have been the trademark of the Rolling Stones throughout the career of the band. Sir Michael Philip Mick Jagger (born 26 July 1943) is an English singer, songwriter and actor, best known as lead vocalist and a founding member of The Rolling Stones.
Prince has said that he had always wished he had written Miss You. With his song Uptown, he damn near did. Mick went to see Prince's live show at The Ritz in New York. Impressed with Prince, it was Mick who wanted and got Prince as an opening act for the Stones upcoming tour. Prince was lined up for more than just those two shows in Los Angeles.
Biography. Prince is one of the most naturally gifted artists of all time, and also one of the most mysterious. In the Eighties, at a time when other megastars such as Michael Jackson, Bruce Springsteen, and Madonna, were delivering an album every three years or so, Prince remained prolific to an almost inhuman degree. Under the name Prince Rogers, Prince's father John Nelson was the leader of a Minneapolis-area jazz band, in which his mother was the vocalist.
Case in point on October 9 and October 11 1981, Prince was the opening act for the Rolling Stones at The Memorial Coliseum in Los Angeles, California. This event has been documented several times through out the years. And surprisingly, in slightly different variations. With his song Uptown, he damn near did. Mick went to see Prince's live show at The Ritz in New York. Impressed with Prince, it was Mick who wanted and got Prince as an opening act for the Stones upcoming tour. Prince was lined up for more than just those two shows in Los Angeles.
Prince. Lots of people love the Rolling Stones. Lots of people love Prince. But the number of people who loved both acts in 1981, when Prince opened for the Stones, was relatively small -- and few of them seemed to be in attendance during the gigs, which were rumored to include His Purpleness being booed off the stage. 