Endocrinology is a specialty of medicine; some would say a sub-specialty of internal medicine, which deals with the diagnosis and treatment of diseases related to hormones. Endocrinology covers such human functions as the coordination of metabolism, respiration, reproduction, sensory perception, and movement. 
Endocrinologists treat people who suffer from hormonal imbalances, typically from glands in the endocrine system. The overall goal of treatment is to restore the normal balance of hormones found in a patient's body. Most of the work performed by an endocrinologist serves as the basis for ongoing research. Some endocrinologists work solely as research physicians. The goal of the research is to come up with new ways to better treat hormonal imbalances, including the development of new drugs.
An endocrinologist is a specially trained doctor who can diagnose and treat diseases that affect your glands, hormones and your endocrine system. The pancreas is part of the endocrine system, and insulin is one of the central hormones the body needs to function properly. Endocrinologists often treat people with diabetes, thyroid disease, metabolic disorders and more. Like other physicians and medical doctors, an endocrinologist is required to finish four years in medical school and complete a three or four year residency.
Endocrinology is the study of medicine that relates to the endocrine system, which is the system that controls hormones. An endocrinologist will deal with diseases that are caused by problems with hormones. Understanding what an endocrinologist does begins with understanding what the endocrine system is. The endocrine system is a series of glands that produce and secrete hormones that the body uses for a wide range of functions. These control many different bodily functions, including: 1  Respiration. 2  Metabolism.
The endocrinologist specializes in treating disorders of the endocrine system such as hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, diabetes, disorders of menopause, PMS, andropause, pituitary disorders such as growth hormone deficiency and adrenal disorders such as Cushing’s disease or Addison’s disease. WHAT IS THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM? Endocrinology is a branch of medicine, which deals with disorders of the endocrine system and its secretions called hormones. The glands of the endocrine system include the thyroid, pancreas, ovaries, testes, adrenals, and pituitary.
Endocrinologists have the training to diagnose and treat hormone imbalances and problems by helping to restore the normal balance of hormones in the body. The common diseases and disorders of the endocrine system that endocrinologists deal with include diabetes mellitus and thyroid disorders. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Endocrinology is a complex study of the various hormones and their actions and disorders in the body. Glands are organs that make hormone
Patients with diabetes have above-normal levels of blood sugar and difficulty converting food to energy. An endocrinologist uses three tests to diagnose diabetes. A random plasma glucose test measures blood sugar without regard to when the patient last ate. An endocrinologist may order a test to check the level of calcium in the blood, as well as a 24-hour urine test to measure calcium in the urine. In the 24-hour urine test, the patient collects all of her urine over a 24-hour period in a container and takes it to the lab for analysis.
These organs include the pituitary, thyroid, adrenals, ovaries, testes, and pancreas. An endocrinologist is a physician who specializes in treating disorders of the endocrine system, such as diabetes, hyperthyroidism, and many others (see list of diseases below). 