In dogs and humans, Cushing’s disease is caused by a hormone-secreting tumor of the anterior part (pars distalis) of the pituitary gland at the base of the brain. In horses, by contrast, the disease involves the intermediate part (pars intermedia) of the pituitary.
Also known as Pituitary Pars Intermedia Dysfunction or PPID, Cushing’s Disease is a dysfunction of the pituitary gland. It is most common in older horses (18 – 23 years). Since it is sometimes associated with Insulin Resistance, Cushing’s can be confused with another condition called Equine Metabolic Syndrome.
Equine Cushing’s Disease is also known as Cushing’s Syndrome and also referred to as Pituitary Pars Intermedia Dysfunction (or PPID). It is normally considered a condition of people and old dogs but has recently been accepted as a hormonal (endocrine) disorder in horses.
Signs of Cushing’s Disease. The most common sign of Cushing’s Disease in horses can be detected from the horse’s haircoat. Anything from abnormal shedding to a wavy coat length can be a sign of Cushing’s Disease. A common sign is a horse that fails to shed in the summer compiling a lengthy coat of hair.
The most common hormonal disorders in horses affect the adrenal glands (Addison's disease and Cushing's disease), thyroid gland (hypothyroidism and goiter), and the pancreas (diabetes mellitus).
A horse with a lengthy coat of hair, a common symptom of equine Cushing's disease. Equine Cushing’s Disease is one of the most common hormonal disorders that occurs in horses. It is normally due to a tumor, or an increase of cells in the region of the pituitary gland.
The cause of Cushing's disease in horses is a tumor found in the pituitary gland. This tumor affects the pars intermedia-the small middle region of the pituitary gland. Sometimes equine Cushing's disease is also referred to as pars intermedia dysfunction (PID).
Causes. The cause of Cushing's disease in horses is a tumor found in the pituitary gland. This tumor affects the pars intermedia-the small middle region of the pituitary gland. Sometimes equine Cushing's disease is also referred to as pars intermedia dysfunction (PID).