Toni L. Russell, the daughter of Leon C. and Lela (Ervin)  Russell, born December 15, 1968, Corsicana Texas, first inquired to  used the term First Lady in regards to her … Pastor's Wife, Berdie  Johnson who was married to the church's pastor, Elder A.Z. Johnson. Some how I read from a journal..and also from a monthly magazine namely WISDOM that the term Third World first coined by India's First Prime Minister-Jawaharlal Ne … hru.
The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes.  Eratosthenes was a Greek scholar and chief librarian of the Library  of Alexandria. He invented geography inclu … ding most of the  terminology still in use. Some how I read from a journal..and also from a monthly magazine namely WISDOM that the term Third World first coined by India's First Prime Minister-Jawaharlal Ne … hru.
The ancient Greek scholar Eratosthenes is commonly called the father of geography for he was the first to use the word geography and he had a small-scale notion of the planet that led him to be able to determine the circumference of the earth. While serving as head librarian and scholar, Eratosthenes wrote a comprehensive treatise about the world, called Geography. This was the first use of the word, which literally means writing about the earth in Greek.
1. Who was the first person to calculate the circumference of the Earth and coined the word “geography”? (1 point) Anaximander Eratosthenes Ptolemy Zheng He 2. He successfully applied his scientific research to create an illustration of the first world map. (1 point) Anaximander Eratosthenes Ptolemy Zheng He 3. He invented a globe and argued that the representation of the world as a flat, two-dimensional object was not accurate. (1 point) Anaximander Eratosthenes Ptolemy Zheng He 4
In more recent developments, geography has become a distinct academic discipline. 'Geography' derives from the Greek γεωγραφία – geographia, a literal translation of which would be  to describe or write about the Earth . The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). However, there is evidence for recognizable practices of geography, such as cartography (or map-making) prior to the use of the term geography. In the West during the second half of the 19th and the 20th century, the discipline of geography went through four major phases: environmental determinism, regional geography, the quantitative revolution, and critical
Eratosthenes was born around 276 B.C.E. at a Greek colony in Cyrene, Libya. He was educated at the academies of Athens and was appointed to run the Great Library at Alexandria in 240. While serving as head librarian and scholar, Eratosthenes wrote a comprehensive treatise about the world, called Geography. This was the first use of the word, which literally means writing about the earth in Greek.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes. Eratosthenes was a Greek scholar and chief librarian of the Library of Alexandria. He invented geography including most of the terminology still in use. Toni L. Russell, the daughter of Leon C. and Lela (Ervin)  Russell, born December 15, 1968, Corsicana Texas, first inquired to  used the term First Lady in regards to her … Pastor's Wife, Berdie  Johnson who was married to the church's pastor, Elder A.Z. Johnson
Four historical traditions in geographical research are spatial analysis of the natural and the human phenomena (geography as the study of distribution), area studies (places and regions), study of the human-land relationship, and research in the Earth sciences. Geography has been called the world discipline and the bridge between the human and the physical science . Geography is divided into two main branches: human geography and physical geography.
Map of the Earth. Geography (from Greek γεωγραφία, geographia, lit. earth description) is a field study of the lands, the features, the inhabitants, and the phenomena of Earth. A literal translation would be to describe or picture or write about the earth. The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). Geography has been called the world discipline and the bridge between the human and the physical science . Geography is divided into two main branches: human geography and physical geography.