Healing properties of Amethyst. Amethyst is a gemstone often worn by healers, as it has the power to focus energy. A healer will usually wear several pieces of jewelry with amethysts set in silver, especially an amethyst necklace. The person to be healed will have an Amethyst to hold while the healing is being done.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Amethyst (disambiguation) . Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. drunkenness The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. Drunkenness the Ancient greeks wore amethyst and made drinking vessels decorated with it in the belief that it would prevent. intoxication
Amethyst Gemstone meaning. Crystalline quartz in shades of purple, lilac or mauve is called amethyst, a stone traditionally worn to guard against drunkeness and to instill a sober mind. The word amethyst comes from the Greek meaning without drunkenness and amethyst is believed to protect one from poison. Amethyst is a gemstone often worn by healers, as it has the power to focus energy. A healer will usually wear several pieces of jewelry with amethysts set in silver, especially an amethyst necklace. The person to be healed will have an Amethyst to hold while the healing is being done.
The Mineral amethyst. Amethyst is a well known mineral and gemstone. It is the purple variety of the mineral Quartz, and its most valuable and prized variety. Its name derives from the Greek amethystos, which means not drunken, as Amethyst in antiquity was thought to ward off drunkenness. When used as a gemstone, Amethyst is often heat treated to deepen the color, or to transform it into Citrine. Some varieties may also change to a light green color, which is given the trade name Prasiolite, or Green Amethyst, as it is more commonly known in the gem trade.
Amethyst is a purple variety of quartz (SiO 2) and owes its violet color to irradiation, iron impurities (in some cases in conjunction with transition element impurities), and the presence of trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. Drunkenness the Ancient greeks wore amethyst and made drinking vessels decorated with it in the belief that it would prevent. intoxication
Amethyst is very well known -- as from the ancients -- as a sobriety stone. It has been used for millenia to prevent drunkenness, and is used to assist in getting rid of addictions to alcohol, drugs, smoking, etc, and destructive compulsive behaviors of all kinds. CONTINUED ON Amethyst P2. 
About Amethyst-History and Introduction. Amethyst is one of the most precious and valuable stones belonging to the quartz group of minerals, with exception to rare blue-green gem silica. Fine amethyst is transparent, which means that the light passes through the stone unhindered. In translucent amethyst, the passage of light is slightly weakened as it travels through the stone. The best quality amethyst is clean and free of visible inclusions of any kind.
The Gemstone Amethyst. Amethyst is one of the most popular gemstones, and has been considered valuable since ancient times. Its name derives from the Greek amethystos, which means not drunken, as Amethyst in antiquity was thought to ward off drunkenness. 