African Sleeping Sickness: Caused by the protist protozoa Trypanosoma brucei, this disease exhibits symptoms like fever and headaches in the initial stages, which may be accompanied by vital organ dysfunction, followed by swelling of the lymph nodes in the second stage. Giardiasis: This is a form of diarrhea caused by the infectious protist Giardia lamblia. Giardia cysts can be transmitted on coming in contact with an infected person, who does not maintain proper personal hygiene, or by coming in contact with contaminated water.
Chagas Disease: Spread by blood sucking assassin bugs, this disease is caused by the protozoa Trypanosoma cruzi, which is passed on to the secondary hosts, humans, when these bugs feed on the hosts' blood, and defecate immediately near the site of the bite. Giardiasis: This is a form of diarrhea caused by the infectious protist Giardia lamblia. Giardia cysts can be transmitted on coming in contact with an infected person, who does not maintain proper personal hygiene, or by coming in contact with contaminated water.
Amoebic Dysentery: Caused by the protist Entamoeba histolytica, this type of dysentery is caused when food or water contaminated with these amoeba are consumed, or when hands are not properly sanitized and disinfected after having touched contaminated objects. Giardiasis: This is a form of diarrhea caused by the infectious protist Giardia lamblia. Giardia cysts can be transmitted on coming in contact with an infected person, who does not maintain proper personal hygiene, or by coming in contact with contaminated water.
2. Picture of the pathogen that causes the disease. 3. Bacteria, Virus or Protist in the bottom left corner. 4. Your name in the bottom right corner. √ When Complete Choose 7 of the Following – Side A of Box Information 1. Scientific name of the pathogen that causes the disease. 3. Bacteria, Virus or Protist printed in LARGE type in the bottom left corner. 4. Your name printed in the bottom right corner. • SIDE A OF BOX-You must choose any 7 of the following options to include on one side of your cereal box:
Shigella infection (shigellosis) is an intestinal disease caused by a family of bacteria known as shigella. The main sign of shigella infection is diarrhea, which often is bloody. Shigella can be passed through direct contact with the bacteria in the stool. 
Giardiasis. This disease is caused by the protist giardia, which is one of the most frequently found waterborne parasites in the United States. Infection typically occurs after drinking contaminated water, usually from a lake, stream or well. The parasite can also contaminate water through infected animal fece
Confidence votes 30.3K. Mad cow disease is scientifically known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE for short. BSE is caused by a mis-folded protein in the brain and spinal cord of cattle, so it is actually none of the above (virus, bacteria or protist). Prions are a novel form of disease infection distinct from the traditional three infectious routes identified in the early 1900s. The disease was given … the formal name of bovine spongiform encephalopathy based on the microscopic signs of the disease in the brain and is often called BSE for short. BSE is caused by a prion, a mis-folded protein in the brains of cattle, so it is not caused by a protist.
Infectious diseases are caused by small microbes invisible to the eye. The microbes include bacteria, protozoans, fungi, yeast and virus. Of them bacteria and protozoans are the most common disease causing agents. Bacteria cause disease both in plants and animals.
2. Trypanosomes, which live in the blood of vertebrates causing sleeping sickness and Chagas' disease. 3. Leishmaniasis is transmitted by sand flies in Africa, causing ulcers on the skin and internal organs; if untreated, it is fatal within two years. 4. Human malaria is caused by four species of Plasmodium. 5. 
African Sleeping Sickness. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness. This disease is caused by the protozoan parasite, Trichomonas vaginalis. This disease is most commonly transmitted sexually. It is a dangerous parasite as it can also help along HIV transmission. Symptoms of this disease differ per gender.