Hyperthyroidism is also a cause of goiter-from an overactive thyroid gland, which produces too much thyroid hormone. This usually happens as a result of Graves' disease, also an autoimmune disorder in which the body's immunity turns on itself and attacks the thyroid gland, causing it to swell. 3. In rare cases, enlargement of the thyroid gland is caused by cancer, leading to a diagnosis of thyroid cancer rather than goiter. 3. The degree of swelling, and the severity of symptoms produced by the goiter depend on the individual.
Goitre which is associated with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism may be present with symptoms of the underlying disorder. For hyperthyroidism, the most common symptoms are associated with adrenergic stimulation: tachycardia, palpitations, nervousness, tremor, increased blood pressure and heat intolerance. 
Goiter is a swelling (hypertrophy) of a gland in the neck called the thyroid gland. 1-3 The thyroid gland is situated in front of the windpipe and is responsible for producing and secreting hormones that regulate growth and metabolism. In rare cases, enlargement of the thyroid gland is caused by cancer, leading to a diagnosis of thyroid cancer rather than goiter. 3. The degree of swelling, and the severity of symptoms produced by the goiter depend on the individual.
Enlarged thyroid. Goiter (GOI-tur) is an abnormal enlargement of your thyroid gland. Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland located at the base of your neck just below your Adam's apple. Although goiters are usually painless, a large goiter can cause a cough and make it difficult for you to swallow or breathe. 
Goiter. Goiter is an enlargement of the thyroid gland. The resulting bulge on the neck may become extremely large, but most simple goiters are brought under control before this happens. Occasionally a simple goiter may cause some difficulty in breathing and swallowing. PubMed Health Glossary.
Enlargement could also occur with normal production of thyroid hormone, such as a nontoxic multinodular gland. Another type of thyroid growth, called a sporadic goiter, can form if your diet includes too many goiter-promoting foods, such as soybeans, rutabagas, cabbage, peaches, peanuts, and spinach. Basics. Symptoms. Treatment. Another type, called toxic nodular goiter, results when one or more nodules, or adenomas, develop in the thyroid and trigger excess production of thyroid hormone. In short, a goiter is any enlargement of the thyroid gland. A goiter may be a temporary problem that will remedy itself over time without medical intervention, or a symptom of another, possibly severe, thyroid condition that requires medical attention
The term non-toxic goiter refers to enlargement of the thyroid that is not associated with overproduction of thyroid hormone or malignancy. The thyroid can become very large so that it can easily be seen as a mass in the neck. 
A goiter can occur in a gland that is producing too much hormone (hyperthyroidism), too little hormone (hypothyroidism), or the correct amount of hormone (euthyroidism). A goiter indicates there is a condition present which is causing the thyroid to grow abnormally. Therefore, Graves’ disease produces a goiter and hyperthyroidism. Multinodular goiters are another common cause of goiters. Individuals with this disorder have one or more nodules within the gland which cause thyroid enlargement. This is often detected as a nodular feeling gland on physical exam.
Hashimoto's disease. Goiter can also result from an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). Like Graves' disease, Hashimoto's disease is an autoimmune disorder. But instead of causing your thyroid to produce too much hormone, Hashimoto's damages your thyroid so that it produces too little. 1 Graves' disease. 2  Goiter can sometimes occur when your thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism). 3  In Graves' disease, antibodies produced by your immune system mistakenly attack your thyroid gland, causing it to produce excess thyroxine.