Rarely, emphysema is caused by an inherited deficiency of a protein that protects the elastic structures in the lungs. It's called alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency emphysema. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk factors. 
Familial Emphysema. People with familial emphysema have a hereditary deficiency of alpha-1-protease inhibitor, also called alpha1-antitrypsin (AAT). When there is a genetic deficiency of AAT, the activity of elastase&#151an enzyme that breaks down elastin-is not inhibited and elastin degradation occurs unchecked. 
1 Familial emphysema: A rare genetic form of emphysema caused by a deficiency of alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) which results in destruction of the elastin component of the lung structure. 2  The disorder tends to run in families (familial). Prevalance of Familial emphysema: number of Americans with this genetic deficiency is quite small, probably no more than 70,000. It is estimated that 1 in 3,000 newborns have a genetic deficiency of AAT, and 1 to 3 percent of all cases of emphysema are due to AAT deficiency.
Familial emphysema: Introduction. Emphysema caused by genetic factors rather than smoking. Emphysema is lung damage which is mostly caused by smoking but in familial emphysema it is caused by the lack of the AAT enzyme which protects the elastin of the lung alveoli. ... more ».
It's Type A or panlobular emphysema. It develops because the person has a lack of alpha 1 antitrypsin enzyme. Trypsin is an enzyme that breaks down alveolar septal tissue, not airways. The alveoli are normally configured somewhat like grapes on a vine. It's the walls between the alveoli that are called septa. 
There are rare cases of a condition called Alpha-1 Antitrypsin deficiency. This is a genetic condition that causes Emphysema and can be passed along a family line. However, this condition is extremely rare; there are only about 100,000 cases in all of North America. The most common cause is tobacco smoke. 
Alpha-1-Antitrypsin Deficiency (A1AD) is an inherited disease that can be a risk factor for developing emphysema and cirrhosis or panniculitus. The condition occurs when the gene that makes a protective blood protein called alpha-1 antitrypsin, or AAT, is defective. However, adults with Alpha-1 may also experience liver problems, including cirrhosis or, in rare cases, liver cancer. Alpha-1-Antitrypsin Deficiency (A1AD). is an inherited disease that can be a risk factor for developing emphysema and cirrhosis or panniculitus.
Emphysema caused by genetic factors rather than smoking. Emphysema is lung damage which is mostly caused by ... more 1  ». Familial emphysema: A rare genetic form of emphysema caused by a deficiency of alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) which results in destruction of the elastin component of the lung structure. 2  The disorder tends to run in families (familial). Prevalance of Familial emphysema: number of Americans with this genetic deficiency is quite small, probably no more than 70,000. It is estimated that 1 in 3,000 newborns have a genetic deficiency of AAT, and 1 to 3 percent of all cases of emphysema are due to AAT deficiency.