Testosterone is a hormone, i.e. a chemical messenger, that is responsible for the development of male sexual characteristics, although females also produce testosterone, albeit usually in smaller amounts. 1. A type of androgen, testosterone is produced mostly by the testes/testicles in cells called the Leydig cells. Low serum testosterone levels have even been associated with increased mortality in male veterans, and late-onset hypogonadism has become an increasingly recognized medical condition, although many of the symptoms are associated with normal aging.
Testosterone is a hormone made by your body in the testes, the reproductive glands that make sperm. The amount of testosterone your body produces is controlled by the brain's hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. Testosterone plays an important role in the body. It's impact can be seen in: 1  Growth and maturation of the prostate and other male sex organs. 2  Development and distribution of male hair, such as facial hair. 3  Thickening of vocal cords resulting in deepening of the voice. 4  Body muscle mass and strength. 5  Fat distribution.
Testosterone is a sex hormone that is naturally produced in the male testicles. In women, small amounts of testosterone is produced in the ovaries and by the adrenal system. Testosterone is available in various medications for testosterone replacement therapy. Testosterone is a sex hormone that's also available as a prescription medicine to treat male hypogonadism and symptoms of low testosterone levels (low T). Symptoms of low T may include sexual dysfunction, low energy, and the loss of some male characteristics
Testosterone is a vital male hormone that is responsible for the development and maintenance of male attributes. Women also have testosterone, but in much smaller amounts. The hypothalamus is the decision-maker. It puts in a request for how much testosterone should be produced. The Effects of Testosterone on the Body. Testosterone is an important male hormone. A male begins to produce testosterone as early as seven weeks after conception. Testosterone levels rise during puberty, peak during the late teen years, and then level off.
a low testosterone level or sperm count, or both. sex hormone : a hormone that affects and is made by the reproductive (sex) organs. It is responsible for secondary sex traits, such as facial hair in men. Testosterone is the main sex hormone that men have. It controls male physical features. The testes (testicles) make testosterone. Women have testosterone too, but in much smaller amounts than in men.
In women, the adrenal glands and ovaries produce small amounts of testosterone. Before a boy is even born, testosterone is working to form male genitals. During puberty, testosterone is responsible for the development of male attributes like a deeper voice, beard, and body hair. The Effects of Testosterone on the Body. Testosterone is an important male hormone. A male begins to produce testosterone as early as seven weeks after conception. Testosterone levels rise during puberty, peak during the late teen years, and then level off.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is found in humans and other vertebrates. In humans and other mammals, testosterone is secreted primarily by the testicles of males and, to a lesser extent, the ovaries of females. Small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands. It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic steroid. On average, in adult males, levels of testosterone are about 7–8 times as great as in adult females. As the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men. Females are also more sensitive to the hormone.
Testosterone is a hormone. It's what puts hair on a man's chest. It's the force behind his sex drive. During puberty, testosterone helps build a man's muscles, deepens his voice, and boosts the size of his penis and testes. In adulthood, it keeps a man's muscles and bones strong and maintains his interest in sex. In short, it's what makes a man a man (at least physically).
Testosterone is a hormone produced by the testicles and is responsible for the proper development of male sexual characteristics. Testosterone is also important for maintaining muscle bulk, adequate levels of red blood cells, bone growth, a sense of well-being, and sexual function. As a man ages, the amount of testosterone in his body naturally gradually declines. This decline starts after age 30 and continues throughout life. Some causes of low testosterone levels are due to: