Meaning of Blythe. English name. In English, the name Blythe means-happy.The name Blythe originated as an English name. The name Blythe is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-happy. Origin-England.
Blythe. Blythe /bly-the/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Blythe) is pronounced bleeth. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Blythe is blithe, cheerful, carefree . Modern coinage, though possibly linked to the transferred use of the surname from the word blithe during the Middle Ages. Made famous by the opening lines of Shelley's poem To a Skylark: Hail to thee, blithe spirit! and Noel Coward's play Blithe Spirit. Actress Blythe Danner.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Blythe. Blythe is a relatively rare name derived from the Olde English “bliþe” meaning “cheerful, friendly, joyous, kind” from the Old Saxon “bliði” (bright, happy). In Modern English we’re more familiar with “blithe” (happy-go-lucky, carefree, amiable). In any case, you get the point. Blythe is a name rooted in cheerfulness
Blythe embodies a cheerful, carefree spirit and could be the next Blair / Blaine / Blake / Brett / Britt, with the advantage that it's clearly pink. It joins other other light-hearted names for girls: Felicity, Hilary. Blythe is the middle name of Drew Barrymore--in her case a surname from her rich theatrical history. 
This famous surname, always associated with Captain, and later Admiral, William Bligh, of HMS Bounty, and recorded in many spellings including Blyth, Blythe, Blyde, Bligh, Blything, etc. is of pre 8th century Olde English and Anglo-Saxon origins. 
Blythe is a somewhat popular first name for females (#2841 out of 4276, Top 66%) and an even more popular surname for all people (#4200 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Blythe for girls. Modern coinage, though possibly linked to the transferred use of the surname from the word blithe during the Middle Ages. Made famous by the opening lines of Shelley's poem To a Skylark: Hail to thee, blithe spirit! and Noel Coward's play Blithe Spirit. Actress Blythe Danner.
Comments and insights on the name Blythe: | Edit. My name is Blythe! I am 17 and I have just recently come to appreciate the uniqueness and originality of my name. Though it sometimes tests my patience when my name is mispronounced, I have truly learned to embrace my name and thank my parents for blessing me with something I can really call my own. Blythe is the last name of Gilbert Blythe, the man Anne Shirley marries in the Anne of Green Gables series by L.M. Montgomery.
Blythe /bly-the/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Blythe) is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Blythe is blithe, cheerful, carefree. Modern coinage. Blythe is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#4200 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Blythe for boys. Blythe has not been listed in the Top 1000 thus far. (2014 Birth Statistics)