Because it is hard to understand what spiral curriculum is through the slightly complicated definition above, this lesson will show what it looks like in practice in the four major subject areas: math, reading, science, and social studies. However, that does not mean that social studies isn't taught with a spiral curriculum. There are many examples in social studies learning of spiral curriculum at work. Students' understanding of communities and societies is just such an example.
Philosophy of education can also be understood not as an academic discipline but as a normative educational theory that unifies pedagogy, curriculum, learning theory, and the purpose of education and is grounded in specific metaphysical, epistemological, and axiological assumptions. As an academic field, philosophy of education is the philosophical study of education and its problems...its central subject matter is education, and its methods are those of philosophy .
'Spiral curriculum' may be a term that you haven't heard before, but you certainly have learned from such a curriculum in your own student life. This lesson will provide a definition of spiral curriculum as well as some examples of the educational tool in action. However, that does not mean that social studies isn't taught with a spiral curriculum. There are many examples in social studies learning of spiral curriculum at work. Students' understanding of communities and societies is just such an example.
10. Define spiral curriculum, describe its use, and provide the rationale for it. Spiral curriculum is Bruner's preferred way of organizing content to be taught because it follows from how students represent content from the enactive to the symbolic stage. 
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1960. Spiral curriculum, a concept widely attributed to Jerome Bruner [1], refers to a curriculum design in which key concepts are presented repeatedly throughout the curriculum, but with deepening layers of complexity, or in different applications. Over the past several years, UDM’s Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE) program has designed and implemented such a spiral curriculum, built on a robotics theme. In their very first semester at the university, all engineering students complete a hands robotics project that introduces concepts related to mechatronics.
In a 2003 study Reys, Reys, Lapan, Holliday and Wasman refer to curriculum as a set of learning goals articulated across grades that outline the intended mathematics content and process goals at particular points in time throughout the K–12 school program. Curricula may be tightly standardized, or may include a high level of instructor or learner autonomy. Many countries have national curricula in primary and secondary education, such as the United Kingdom's National Curriculum.
spiral curriculum. A popular UK for an education curriculum for doctors training in a particular specialty or area of specialist interest, in which trainees revisit the core competencies in each year of training as they progress from a basic level of functioning to a specialist level. A spiral curriculum for BSE at Virginia Tech: an update by Wolfe, Mary Leigh / Resource: Engineering & Technology for a Sustainable World. These standards convey the essence of the.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1960. Spiral curriculum, a concept widely attributed to Jerome Bruner [1], refers to a curriculum design in which key concepts are presented repeatedly throughout the curriculum, but with deepening layers of complexity, or in different applications. 
One of the hallmarks of The Harbor School program is the Spiral Curriculum. During the late winter, the entire School explores the same topic bringing together art, dance, foreign language, language arts, literature, math, music, physical education, research, science, and social studies in an integrated study. Spiral Curriculum is capped off by Spiral Curriculum Night in which all parents and special friends are invited to tour each classroom with the children as their guides. Spiral Curriculum is an exciting time for students and faculty alike.
Lesson Summary. A spiral curriculum can be defined as a course of study in which students will see the same topics throughout their school career, with each encounter increasing in complexity and reinforcing previous learning. However, that does not mean that social studies isn't taught with a spiral curriculum. There are many examples in social studies learning of spiral curriculum at work. Students' understanding of communities and societies is just such an example.