Diabetic nephropathy is a type of progressive kidney disease that occurs in people who have diabetes. The University of Washington estimates that 20 to 40 percent of people with diabetes will get diabetic nephropathy at some point in their lives (UW, 2012). 
Treatments for Nephropathy. 1  Treatment depends on the underlying cause of nephropathy. 2  Treatment of nephropathy is dependant upon the underlying cause of the kidney damage, the severity of the kidney damage, the age of the patient, and any other health problems that the patient might have. 1
1 Treatment of nephropathy is dependant upon the underlying cause of the kidney damage, the severity of the kidney damage, the age of the patient, and any other health problems that the patient might have. 2  Treatments include: 3  Treatment of underlying cause-e.g., hypertension, diabetes, autoimmune diseases. 1 Treatment depends on the underlying cause of nephropathy. 2 
Diabetic nephropathy -- kidney disease that results from diabetes -- is the number one cause of kidney failure. Almost a third of people with diabetes develop diabetic nephropathy. People with diabetes and kidney disease do worse overall than people with kidney disease alone. This is because people with diabetes tend to have other long-standing medical conditions, like high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and blood vessel disease (atherosclerosis).
Diabetic kidney disease, or diabetic nephropathy, is a complication of type 1 or type 2 diabetes caused by damage to the kidneys' delicate filtering system. Your kidneys contain millions of tiny blood vessel clusters (glomeruli) that filter waste from your blood. Severe damage to these blood vessels can lead to diabetic nephropathy, which may lead to kidney failure or irreversible end-stage kidney disease, requiring dialysis or a kidney transplant.
Nephropathy means kidney disease or damage. Diabetic nephropathy is damage to your kidneys caused by diabetes. In severe cases it can lead to kidney failure. But not everyone with diabetes has kidney damage. The kidneys have many tiny blood vessels that filter waste from your blood. High blood sugar from diabetes can destroy these blood vessels
Diabetic nephropathy (or diabetic kidney disease) is a progressive kidney disease caused by damage to the capillaries in the kidneys ' glomeruli. Illustration depicting diabetic nephropathy. The cause of diabetic nephropathy is not well understood, but it is thought that high blood sugar, advanced glycation end product formation, and cytokines may be involved in the development of diabetic nephropathy.
Nephropathy is a term that can be used to describe disease or damage in the kidneys. Someone with a kidney problem may experience bloody urine, among many other issues. Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Nephropathy is a medical term used to refer to disease or damage in the kidneys. A number of types of nephropathies can be seen in medical treatment, and there are a range of causes and treatments for conditions which involve the kidneys.