1 William Henry Christman, of the 67th Pennsylvania Infantry was the first service member buried at Arlington, May 13, 1864, Pvt. 2  William Blatt of the 49th Pennsylvania Infantry was the first service member interred there who died of wounds suffered in battle. 3  Christman died from the measles shortly after enlisting. 1 There are only two mausoleums at Arlington National Cemetery. 2  The first is for Thomas Crook Sullivan and members of his family in Section 1, and the other for the Nelson Appleton Miles family in Section 3. 3  The Confederate Section, Section 16, was authorized in 1900 by Congress.
The first soldier to be buried in Arlington was Private William Henry Christman of Pennsylvania on May 13, 1864. As of May 2006, there were 367 Medal of Honor recipients buried in Arlington National Cemetery, nine of whom are Canadian. Arlington House. At the outbreak of the Civil War, most military personnel who died in battle near Washington, D.C., were buried at the United States Soldiers' Cemetery in Washington, D.C., or Alexandria Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia, but by late 1863 both were nearly full.
On May 13, 1864, a Confederate prisoner of war was buried on the grounds of Arlington House, now Arlington National Cemetery. The prisoner, who had died at a local hospital, was the first soldier buried at the cemetery, located on the Potomac River opposite Washington, D.C. The cemetery is situated directly across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C. and near The Pentagon. It is served by the Arlington Cemetery station on the Blue Line of the Washington Metro system. More than 300,000 people are buried in an area of 624 acres (2.53 km2).
1 William Christman (1843–1864), First soldier to be buried at Arlington Cemetery. 2  Bertram Tracy Clayton (1862–1918), Congressman from New York, killed in action in 1918. 3  John Clem (1851–1937), Major General, AKA Johnny Shiloh, arguably the youngest noncomissioned officer ever to serve in the U.S. Armed Forces. 1 Arlington National Cemetery was established by Meigs, who commanded the garrison at Arlington House and appropriated the grounds on June 15, 1864 for use as a military cemetery. 2  Nelson A. Miles (1839–1925) U.S. Army Lieutenant General; served in the Civil War, Indian Wars, and the Spanish–American War.
Arlington National Cemetery is a United States military cemetery in Arlington County, Virginia, across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C. , in whose 624 acres (253 ha) have been buried the dead of the nation's conflicts beginning with the American Civil War, as well as reinterred dead from earlier wars. Arlington House. At the outbreak of the Civil War, most military personnel who died in battle near Washington, D.C., were buried at the United States Soldiers' Cemetery in Washington, D.C., or Alexandria Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia, but by late 1863 both were nearly full.
Arlington National Cemetery, in Arlington, Virginia is a military cemetery in the United States, established during the American Civil War on the grounds of Arlington House, formerly the estate of the family of Robert E. Lee's wife Mary Anna (Custis) Lee, a descendant of Martha Washington. The cemetery is situated directly across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C. and near The Pentagon. It is served by the Arlington Cemetery station on the Blue Line of the Washington Metro system. More than 300,000 people are buried in an area of 624 acres (2.53 km2).
The cemetery was established during the Civil War on the grounds of Arlington House, which had been the estate of the family of Confederate general Robert E. Lee 's wife Mary Anna (Custis) Lee (a great-granddaughter of Martha Washington). Arlington House. At the outbreak of the Civil War, most military personnel who died in battle near Washington, D.C., were buried at the United States Soldiers' Cemetery in Washington, D.C., or Alexandria Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia, but by late 1863 both were nearly full.
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery stands atop a hill overlooking Washington, D.C. On March 4, 1921, Congress approved the burial of an unidentified American soldier from World War I in the plaza of the new Memorial Amphitheater. 
Arlington shares with Mill Springs National Cemetery, the only other open cemetery in the system, the distinction of being the oldest military burial ground in the United States. The first soldier to be buried in Arlington was Private William Henry Christman of Pennsylvania on May 13, 1864. The cemetery is situated directly across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C. and near The Pentagon. It is served by the Arlington Cemetery station on the Blue Line of the Washington Metro system. More than 300,000 people are buried in an area of 624 acres (2.53 km2).
Burial of the first official unknown soldier from World War I, on Nov. 11, 1921. Credit: U.S. Army. In 1866, a granite sarcophagus was dedicated at Arlington to honor the bodies of 2,011 unidentified Civil War casualties. On the rear of the monument, there's a haunting inscription: Here rests in honored glory, an American soldier known but to God. But the story of how the first official unknown soldier from World War I was selected for burial in the graves alongside the monument is a strange one.