Here are the most common reasons for yellowing leaves: 1  Normal aging. 2  As many plants age, the lower leaves will turn yellow and drop off as a normal part of growth. 3  This is especially true of foliage plants like dieffenbachia and dracaena. 4  In this case, don't worry. 1 Normal aging. 2  As many plants age, the lower leaves will turn yellow and drop off as a normal part of growth. 3  This is especially true of foliage plants like dieffenbachia and dracaena. 4  In this case, don't worry. 5  If the plant becomes too leggy, consider trimming back the main stem to promote new growth and bushiness
Additional Considerations. Older leaves on the corn plant will naturally turn yellow and eventually drop off of the plant, so there is no cause for concern if this is the case. Excessive or improperly applied fertilizer can cause leaf tips and margins to turn yellow or brown. Low humidity can cause dry tips and edges. Massangeana is a cultivar of Dracaena fragrans, commonly known as corn plant because of its narrow, arching foliage that resembles the leaves of a corn plant. Massangeana features a large yellow stripe down each leaf center.
Iron deficiency causes leaves to turn yellow with green veins. Iron deficiencies can be due to soil that's too alkaline, but nutritional deficiencies aren't always caused by problems with the soil. Instead diseases, nematodes or water-logged soil can make it difficult for plants to absorb needed nutrients from the soil. Spider mites are tiny creatures less than 1/20th of an inch long that live in colonies on the undersides of Dracaena leaves. They damage plants by feeding on the sap. Leaves become speckled with dots and later turn yellow and fall off. Spider mites produce a fine web on leaves and twigs.
If you water the plant with icy cold water, its leaves may seem to slump and turn yellow. Opt for tepid water instead. Never give a Dracaena water that is high in fluoride. The entire genus is extremely sensitive to fluoride, and, if exposed, a plant's leaf tips turn yellow or die. But as tough as it is, Dracaena does not like to be overwatered. Too much water causes its leaves to turn yellow and wilt. Ensure your Dracaena is planted in well-draining soil and allow it to dry out before providing water. Only irrigate the Dracaena if the surface of the soil around it is completely dry
1 As many plants age, the lower leaves will turn yellow and drop off as a normal part of growth. 2  This is especially true of foliage plants like dieffenbachia and dracaena. 3  In this case, don't worry. 4  If the plant becomes too leggy, consider trimming back the main stem to promote new growth and bushiness. 5  Overwatering. 1 Normal aging. 2  As many plants age, the lower leaves will turn yellow and drop off as a normal part of growth. 3  This is especially true of foliage plants like dieffenbachia and dracaena. 4  In this case, don't worry. 5  If the plant becomes too leggy, consider trimming back the main stem to promote new growth and bushiness
Nothing adds a tropical air to a garden or living room like a Dracaena marginata. The slender, grey trunks of the palm-like plant are topped with delicate, sword-shaped leaves, deep green edged with red. If those leaves turn yellow and droop, you are probably doing something wrong. But as tough as it is, Dracaena does not like to be overwatered. Too much water causes its leaves to turn yellow and wilt. Ensure your Dracaena is planted in well-draining soil and allow it to dry out before providing water. Only irrigate the Dracaena if the surface of the soil around it is completely dry
Water/Fertilizer. Underwatering or overwatering causes Dracaena leaves to turn yellow and drop. Only water plants if the surface soil is dry. When watering, add water until it runs out of the drainage holes in the bottom of the pot. Repeat, after a few minutes, until the water runs out of the holes again. Spider mites are tiny creatures less than 1/20th of an inch long that live in colonies on the undersides of Dracaena leaves. They damage plants by feeding on the sap. Leaves become speckled with dots and later turn yellow and fall off. Spider mites produce a fine web on leaves and twigs.