Enjoy your LG Smart TV to the fullest by connecting to wireless network with built-in Wi-Fi technology. No wires, no adapters. Simply use your TV's remote control to search your home network and go online. Watch the video to learn step-by-step guide on how to connect your TV to the world. 1  Howto & Style. 
Posts: 11,555. Ok, if your phone is on it wireless.. you shoud have your wireless network name, and the password/key for it. With the TV, you will have to go into the setup, into the network settings. In here, there shoudl be a way for it to SCAN for available wireless networks. I can only log in to my wifi network as a guest, which apparently doesn't let me use the internet on the tv. I have no problem connecting to my wifi network with my iPhone. My Router is a Cisco DPC3825, my LG TV is a 50LA6900.
In order to connect your LG Smart TV to your Shaw wireless network, you will first need to obtain your network name and password. These credentials are printed on the white sticker affixed to the top of your wireless modem (illustrated below). Once you have obtained this information, you can select your wireless network through your TV by following these steps (may not apply to every LG Smart TV, see link below for more support): 1  Hit the Home button on your LG TV remote. 2  Network Connections. 3  Select Wireless*. 4  Click Start Connection
In reply to: LG Smart TV won't connect to wifi help! Step 2) Log into your router settings using the proper IP address for your router. There's a default, just search router your brand default IP. Step 3) Back up your router settings. Just incase you need to restore. Step 4) Reset your router to factory settings. You are posting a reply to: LG Smart TV won't connect to wifi help! Track this discussion and email me when there are updates. If you're asking for technical help, please be sure to include all your system info, including operating system, model number, and any other specifics related to the problem.
In reply to: LG Smart TV won't connect to wifi help! This worked for me: change your WiFi security (in your router setting) from WPA/WPA2 to WEP. Go back to the Smart TV and reconnect to your network with your selected security key. You are posting a reply to: LG Smart TV won't connect to wifi help! Track this discussion and email me when there are updates. If you're asking for technical help, please be sure to include all your system info, including operating system, model number, and any other specifics related to the problem.
Resolved Question: lg smart tv will not connect wirelessly. Is finding my network, takes password XXXXX will not connect...something about a dhcp setting when I try auto...and when I try manual it asks for another ip address because another device is connected. 