Foods rich in vitamin A. Photo Credit Farina2000/iStock/Getty Images. The largest organ in your body, the liver participates in many important body processes. Not only does it metabolize the food you eat, but it also plays a supportive role in eliminating waste products from your body. Keeping your liver working well is crucial to your health, and you can do this by regularly incorporating certain vitamins into your regimen.
Vitamins to Choose. Vitamins A and E help the liver rid the body of waste products. Eating dark green and orange fruits and vegetables will help you meet the vitamin A recommended dietary allowance of 700 to 900 micrograms daily for adults. The active form of vitamin E, alpha-tocopherol, has an RDA of 15 micrograms, which you can meet by incorporating vegetable oils sources and nuts into your diet. Not only does it metabolize the food you eat, but it also plays a supportive role in eliminating waste products from your body. Keeping your liver working well is crucial to your health, and you can do this by regularly incorporating certain vitamins into your regimen.
Vitamins that Help Your Liver (3/10). Your liver is one of your body's most metabolically active organs, meaning its energy demands are high. The liver, brain, kidneys and heart together account for about 5 percent of your body weight. Yet, these organs account for 60 percent of the energy your body consumes when you are at rest, according to the book Principles of Clinical Gastroenterology.. To keep you liver functioning efficiently, it needs a good supply of B-complex vitamins to assist it with the breakdown of carbohydrates, fats and proteins.
Vitamin B-12 is necessary for production of the amino acid methionine, which is converted into S-adenosylmethionine, or SAMe, a compound sometimes used in the treatment of liver disease. Other good dietary sources of vitamin B-12 include clams, salmon, chicken, eggs and milk. Yet, these organs account for 60 percent of the energy your body consumes when you are at rest, according to the book Principles of Clinical Gastroenterology.. To keep you liver functioning efficiently, it needs a good supply of B-complex vitamins to assist it with the breakdown of carbohydrates, fats and proteins.
Vitamins that Help Your Liver (10/10). Vitamin B-12 is the only B-complex vitamin and the only water-soluble vitamin that can be stored in the liver, where it can remain for years, notes the University of Maryland Medical Center. Yet, these organs account for 60 percent of the energy your body consumes when you are at rest, according to the book Principles of Clinical Gastroenterology.. To keep you liver functioning efficiently, it needs a good supply of B-complex vitamins to assist it with the breakdown of carbohydrates, fats and proteins.
When your diet is low in vitamin A, your liver will release some from storage to supply the body. If you consume too much vitamin A, a condition known as hypervitaminosis A, your liver may become damaged and fatty deposits and elevated blood pressure can develop. Next Slide →. Beef liver is a good source of vitamin K. Yet, these organs account for 60 percent of the energy your body consumes when you are at rest, according to the book Principles of Clinical Gastroenterology.. To keep you liver functioning efficiently, it needs a good supply of B-complex vitamins to assist it with the breakdown of carbohydrates, fats and proteins.
Other deficiencies that are linked to liver disease include vitamin B-1 or thiamine, vitamin B-2 or riboflavin and B-9 or folate. Getting adequate amounts of these vitamins in your diet may help improve liver health. B vitamins are found in a range of foods including squash, dairy, whole grains, meat and poultry. Liver disease due to alcoholism and other causes leads to deficiencies in several essential vitamins. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism notes that a vitamin A deficiency is common in patients with liver diseases such as cirrhosis.
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Liver disease? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Liver disease. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Liver disease returned 16 matches.
The liver is the engine of your body, playing a vital role in many processes that help keep you alive. This organ stores vitamins and glucose for energy, helps control cholesterol levels, cleanses your blood of wastes, and makes clotting factors, immune cells and digestive enzymes. Liver disease due to alcoholism and other causes leads to deficiencies in several essential vitamins. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism notes that a vitamin A deficiency is common in patients with liver diseases such as cirrhosis.
B Vitamins and Your Liver. Liver disease can cause vitamin B deficiencies. The B-complex family comprises eight different B vitamins. Vitamin B deficiency most often occurs in alcoholics as a result of poor diet. B-complex vitamins often affected by liver disease include B1, or thiamine; B-6; and B-12. Around 90 percent of your B-12 stores are found in the liver, according to a January 2009 article in Practical Gastroenterology, so damage to the liver decreases B-12 stores. Once cirrhosis -- which means severe scarring and fibrosis -- develops in liver tissue, the cirrhotic part will never regenerate. B-complex vitamins can help with effects of cirrhosis such as memory loss and nerve damage if you have liver damage, especially if you drink heavily.