No they are not the same thing Yams Yams are closely related to lilies and grasses. Native to Africa and Asia, yams vary in size from that of a small potato to a record 130 pounds (as of 1999). There are over 600 varieties of yams and 95% of these crops are grown in Africa.
Sweet Potatoes, often called ‘yams’, are a dicot (a plant having two embryonic seed leaves) and are from the Convolvulacea or morning glory family. Yams. Yams are closely related to lilies and grasses. Native to Africa and Asia, yams vary in size from that of a small potato to a record 130 pounds (as of 1999).
Yams and sweet potatoes are often confused, but actually they do not have a great deal in common. There are obvious differences in appearances, and the yam can grow to a whopping 100 pounds or 45 kilos whereas the sweet potato is smaller.
Yams are a monocot (a plant having one embryonic seed leaf) and from the Dioscoreaceae or Yam family. Yams. Yams are closely related to lilies and grasses. Native to Africa and Asia, yams vary in size from that of a small potato to a record 130 pounds (as of 1999).
Let's clear up one very important point: sweet potatoes are not a type of yam, and yams are not a type of sweet potato. They are both tuberous root vegetables that come from a flowering plant, but they are not related and actually don't even have a lot in common.
No, actually they aren’t even related. Though they may look alike, botanically, sweet potatoes and yams are not the same species and are not related at all. Yams come from a line of flowering plants closely related to lilies and grasses. They are native to Asia and Africa, with over 600 varieties.
Although yams and sweet potatoes are both angiosperms (flowering plants), they are not related botanically. Yams. Yams are closely related to lilies and grasses. Native to Africa and Asia, yams vary in size from that of a small potato to a record 130 pounds (as of 1999).
Both varieties of sweet potato, including yams can be widely found in supermarket. Yams (family Dioscoreaceae) are native to Africa and Asia and other tropical regions. Yams are starchy tubers that have an almost black bark-like skin and white, purple or reddish flesh and come in many varieties.
The many varieties of sweet potatoes (Ipomoea batatas) are members of the morning glory family, Convolvulacea. The skin color can range from white to yellow, red, purple or brown. The flesh also ranges in color from white to yellow, orange, or orange-red. Sweet potato varieties are classified as either ‘firm’ or ‘soft’.