Marsupial Mammals. Marsupials are the group of mammals commonly thought of as pouched mammals (like the wallaby and kangaroo at left). They give live birth, but they do not have long gestation times like placental mammals. Instead, they give birth very early and the young animal, essentially a helpless embryo, climbs from the mother's birth canal to the nipples. There. Thylacinus, an extinct marsupial wolf. Though marsupials today do not have as many species as do the placental mammals, they are quite structurally diverse. They range from small four-footed forms like the marsupial mole, Notoryctes, to the large two-legged kangaroos.
Most marsupials live in Australia and surrounding islands, but some are found in South America, and one, the Virginia opossum, lives in North America. Marsupials multiplied and evolved into all sorts of species in Australia because there were no placental mammals there to compete with them. 
However there's also marsupials in New Guinea south America and north America but most species occur in Australia and the only placental mammals in Australia are bats and muridae(mice and rats). 
Marsupials are an infraclass of mammals living primarily in Australasia and the Americas. A distinctive characteristic, common to most species, is that the young are carried in a pouch. Well-known marsupials include kangaroos, wallabies, the koala, possums, opossums, wombats and the Tasmanian devil. Other marsupials include the numbat, bandicoots, bettongs, the bilby, quolls, and the quokka. Marsupials represent the clade originating with the last common ancestor of extant metatherians. Even today, marsupials in many cases have 40 to 50 teeth, which is significantly more in comparison to placental mammals. There is a high number of incisors in the upper jaw, up to ten, and they have more molars than premolars.
Australia is the continent on which 99% of the world's marsupials live. The opossum is a marsupial found in North America, but South America also has some marsupials, as does Asia. Some marsupials such as possums and tree kangaroos are also found on the island of New Guinea, which is not a continent. The opossum is a marsupial found in North America, … but South America also has some marsupials, as does Asia. Some marsupials such as possums and tree kangaroos are also found on the island of New Guinea, which is not a continent. + 12 others found this useful.
Most Australian marsupials live in dry scrub or desert habitat. In South America, marsupials live in forests or tropical rain forests. Marsupials can live in any part of the forest habitat, from the trees to the forest floor where, like the wombat, they burrow underground. The Virginia opossum is the only marsupial found in North America. These are called placental mammals. Marsupials give live birth, too, but the embryo climbs from the birth canal to the pouch. Once there, it attaches to a nipple and doesn’t let go because it can’t! The nipple swells in the embryo’s mouth so that it is only able to let go when it is more developed.
Marsupials are found on several of the continents. Australia is the continent on which 99% of the world's marsupials live. The opossum is a marsupial found in North America, … but South America also has some marsupials, as does Asia. Some marsupials such as possums and tree kangaroos are also found on the island of New Guinea, which is not a continent. + 12 others found this useful.
But opossum species, which are also marsupials, live in North, Central, and South America. Most marsupials have four small legs and feet, such as opossums and quolls. Kangaroos and wallabies have two large feet and two arms. These are called placental mammals. Marsupials give live birth, too, but the embryo climbs from the birth canal to the pouch. Once there, it attaches to a nipple and doesn’t let go because it can’t! The nipple swells in the embryo’s mouth so that it is only able to let go when it is more developed.
Marsupials are mammals that commonly bear a pouch such as Kangaroos and Koala Bears. Two thirds of marsupial species are found in Australia. 
as my interests are far and wide. Marsupials are found on several of the continents. Australia is the continent on which 99% of the world's marsupials live. The opossum is a marsupial found in North America, but South America also has some marsupials, as does Asia. Some marsupials such as possums and tree kangaroos are also found on the island of New Guinea, which is not a continent. 