Making the world better, one answer at a time. Rhino's are important to the enviorment because ... 1. they are a part of most food chains and it would effect the balance of some animals health and protein. 2. they are a living creature and every creature is part of the South African wildlife and culture. 
Yes it is, South Africa is the largest economy in Africa. It is important politically because of its strength in the African continent. It also has important tradining links w … ith many countries in Europe, Asia and the Americas. It is currently serving as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. The rhino is one of sa big 5 and is very important in the biodiversity of this county.
Rhino's are important to the enviorment because ... 1. they are a part of most food chains and it would effect the balance of some animals health and protein. 2. they are … a living creature and every creature is part of the South African wildlife and culture. The rhino is one of sa big 5 and is very important in the biodiversity of this county.
The black rhinoceros or hook-lipped rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) is a species of rhinoceros, native to eastern and central Africa including Kenya, Tanzania, Cameroon, South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, and Angola. Although the rhinoceros is referred to as black, its colors vary from brown to grey. 
African rhinos. The two African rhino species – black rhino and white rhino – have both increased in number in recent years thanks to successful conservation efforts, especially in South Africa. Indeed, the white rhino has been brought back from the brink of extinction. Thanks to vigorous conservation and anti-poaching efforts and an international ban on the trade in rhino horn, some African rhino populations are now stable or increasing. However, most of the continent's remaining rhinos are found in just four countries – South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe and Kenya.
There are two species of African rhino – the white and the black. Despite their names, both are the same dark grey-brown colour. It’s thought that the name ‘white rhino’ is a misinterpretation of the Afrikaans word ‘wyd’, referring to its square upper lip. Black rhinos have hooked lips. Most African rhinos are found in just four countries – South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe and Kenya – where they mainly roam grassland and open savannah.
The African rhino is divided into two species, the black rhino and the white rhino. White rhinos mainly live in South Africa, but they have also been reintroduced to Botswana, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe. Southern white rhinos have been introduced to Kenya, Zambia, and Cote d’Ivoire. The majority of the black rhino population—98%—is concentrated in four countries: South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, and Kenya. South Africa houses 40% of the total black rhino population.
Rhinos may look like prehistoric creatures, and they do date back millions of years to the Miocene era, but they are also mammals like us. There are two species of African rhinos, the white rhino and black rhino, and each is distinct in its own way. The white, or square-lipped, rhino derives its name from the Dutch word “weit,” meaning wide. It is actually gray in color and has a hump on its neck and a long face. Southern white rhinos have been introduced to Kenya, Zambia, and Cote d’Ivoire. The majority of the black rhino population—98%—is concentrated in four countries: South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, and Kenya. South Africa houses 40% of the total black rhino population.
They play an important role in their habitats and in countries like Namibia, rhinos are an important source of income from ecotourism. The protection of black rhinos creates large blocks of land for conservation purposes. 