Once you become familiar with the look of both jasper and agate, you will be able to recognize jasp-agate with no problems. One other stone that can be confused with agate or jasper is opal. Opal will have flashes of color if it is precious opal. All are SIO2. When you pick up a stone you can rule out that it is a piece of regular massive quartz quite quickly just by looking to see if you can see the grains of the stone. If you can see grains, you do not have an agate or jasper.
Instructions. Look for translucence in the stone. If the stone has been broken and you can see telltale traces of a quartzlike mineral along with the red, brown and orange color that comes with many types of agate, there is a good chance that you have an unpolished agate. Determine whether there is banding. Most people recognize agate as a highly polished, banded stone, but recognizing unpolished agate on a lake or in a freshly plowed field is a little tougher. Identifying unpolished agate is something that any amateur geologist can learn to do.
Agate and jasper are actually chalcedony, which in turn is cryptocrystalline quartz. All are SIO2. When you pick up a stone you can rule out that it is a piece of regular massive quartz quite quickly just by looking to see if you can see the grains of the stone. If you can see grains, you do not have an agate or jasper. Most likely, what you have then is massive quartz or some other type of stone
Agates are semiprecious gems that can be found all over the world. Throughout history, they have been valued as stones of impressive beauty and charm. Most people recognize agate as a highly polished, banded stone, but recognizing unpolished agate on a lake or in a freshly plowed field is a little tougher. Identifying unpolished agate is something that any amateur geologist can learn to do.
The Lake Superior agate is a type of agate stained by iron and found on the shores of Lake Superior. Its wide distribution and iron-rich bands of color reflect the gemstone's geologic history in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. 
The rocks and stones we find on the beach won't look much like the ones we find in shops that sell agate jewelry and art items. So, how are you to know what to look for? If you want to be a serious agate hunter, I would suggest you buy a guide book to agate hunting. 
Some named varieties are: moss agate, eye agate; and plume agate, which looks like it's filled with beautiful feather plumes (see more agate variety names). Agate is a relatively inexpensive stone except for some varieties with unusual banded or scenic markings. Plume agate is another that often brings high dollar. Agate is found all over the world including: the Africa, Asia, Brazil, Egypt, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Nepal, and the USA. Pictures and description of Montana Agate.
The first deposit on the wall of a cavity, forming the skin of the agate, is generally a dark greenish mineral substance, like celadonite, delessite or  green earth , which are rich in iron probably derived from the decomposition of the augite in the enclosing volcanic rock. Dendritic agates have fern like patterns in them formed due to the presence of manganese and iron oxides. Other types of included matter deposited during agate-building include sagenitic growths (radial mineral crystals) and chunks of entrapped detritus (such as sand, ash, or mud).