Nucleic acids are biopolymers, or large biomolecules, essential for all known forms of life. Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides.
Nucleic acids Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleic acids found in the nuclei of living cells. They are the vehicles of genetic inheritance. Nucleic acids are condensation polymers of nucleotides. Formation of a polynucleotide Nucleic acids are the 'building blocks' of DNA and RNA. The structure of DNA DNA is formed from two polynucleotide chains. Each chain has a helical structure (a helix), in other words the molecule is coiled like a spring.
b. It is packaged into successively compact... show more 1. Both DNA and RNA are made up of building blocks known as a. nucleotides. b. complementary base pairs. c. amino acids. d. genes. 2.
Confidence votes 206. Nucleotides Nucleotides are the monomers, building blocks, of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Each nucleotide includes three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The phosphate is bonded to the sugar through phosphodiester bonds and makes up the backbone of the molecule. The nitrogenous bases form the rungs of the ladder and are connected through hydrogen bonds. The phosphate is the same in DNA and RNA, but the sugar can be a ribose (for RNA) or a deoxyribose (for DNA). The latter is a ribose without  de-  one oxygen  -oxy- . There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosin
The nucleus of a cell is made up of basic proteins and compounds known as nucleic acids. There are two kinds of nucleic acids. They are deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). DNA is found in the chromosomes of the nucleus in a cell and it carries hereditary information. RNA is located in the cell but not in the nucleus. Just as proteins consist of long chains of amino acids, DNA and RNA consists of nucleic acid chains called nucleotides. Nucleotides are composed of three units: base, sugar (monosaccharide) and phosphate. Bases are found in both DNA and RNA. As seen below, they are adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine, and uracil. They are abbreviated (A, C, G, T, U).