Because they grow for only a short time every spring and because they are such a culinary delicacy, several companies now sell morel spores (the seeds of the mushroom) to allow home gardeners to cultivate morels in their backyards. 
When trying to see if a morel will continue to grow, there are a couple of factors that must be used in order for it to work. The color will indicate when the shroom is done growing. If it is still grey, it is NOT done. Once it is yellow, its done! Also, leaving a grey sit to see if it will grow, allows it to dry out. Mike had taken a series of images of a small grey morel over a 6 day period and once again is proof that depending on when you first spot the morel, they do in fact grow. The Great Morel is pleased to present this 2009 study from Clint Ely, in West Virgina.
Morel Growth. Morels normally grow in a five-year cycle of gathering and storing nutrients after the spores fall, cross-pollinate and germinate. The root system that supports the sprouting morel is annual and is replaced each season after it deteriorates. Morels emerge in moist, warm soil -- a good time to search for them is after the first rain of the season and during the first warm days of spring, when the night temperature stays above 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Though efforts to cultivate them haven't been successful, they're easy to identify and collect where they grow in the wild. Collect morels in mesh bags to let the microscopic spores fall and possibly begin another growth cycle near the same site.
I have conducted similar studies of my own with yellow morels around Mid-MO and seen similar results. But that does not mean all morels grow. There are so many variables that go into growing morels, which is one reason it took so long for mushroom growers to find a way to grow them indoors. Air and ground temps, precipitation, available nutrients in the soil and soil PH, exposure to wind and sun are just a few. I am sure that there are plenty of other hunetrs out there willing to set me straight. That's waht I like most about morels and mushrooms in general. Science has done little research on them, leaving a lot of mystery and reinforcing the mushroom hunters' adage morels grow where they want, when they want..
Other Methods for Growing Morel Mushrooms. Inoculated Trees: Since morels often grow near certain trees, it makes sense that inoculating the roots of these trees with morel mycelia may result in mushroom production. The easiest way to do this is by broadcasting spores using the slurry method described above near the base of a tree (elm or ash). One of the most popular ways of growing morel mushrooms is with purchased spawn. Mushroom spawn is simply the mycelium, or vegetative growth of the mushroom, and the material on which it was grown. Spawn can come in the form of grain (such as rye berries), sawdust, woodchips, etc.
Best Answer: Yes, they will continue to grow, when they pop up they are usually very small and will usually grow anywhere from an inch to 3 inches in only a few days. I have found morels along my driveway that were eight inches tall and about 3 inches in diameter, they seem to have appeared in no time at all. I am not real sure what factors affect their growth but they sure do grow. Here is a neat little site to check out. http://themightymorelmushroom.blogspot.c..
What I can tell you is that they do all start out very small and then can remain the same size until conditions are ripe for growth. I watched small greys early in the season last year take almost two weeks to grow an inch and then suddenly quadruple in size to almost 5 inches tall in only two days. I am sure that there are plenty of other hunetrs out there willing to set me straight. That's waht I like most about morels and mushrooms in general. Science has done little research on them, leaving a lot of mystery and reinforcing the mushroom hunters' adage morels grow where they want, when they want..