1 Specific defenses involve specialized cells of the immune system called lymphocytes and the production of antibodies. 2  We will talk more about these in our next lesson. 3  Together, these defenses make up the three lines of defense. 1 Be able to differentiate between non-specific and specific defenses. 2  Be able to give examples of nonspecific defenses, (both mechanical and chemical defenses). 3  Be familiar with the various kinds of blood cells and their roles.
The cells of the innate system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system (which is found only in vertebrates), it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host. Innate immune systems provide immediate defense against infection, and are found in all classes of plant and animal life.
The innate immune system, also known as the nonspecific immune system, is an important subsystem of the overall immune system that comprises the cells and mechanisms that defend the host from infection by other organisms. Innate immune systems provide immediate defense against infection, and are found in all classes of plant and animal life.
Whether the mechanism is as complex as fever and inflammation or as simple as physical barriers and phagocytosis, all nonspecific defenses provide the body with general protection against foreign invaders. SEE ALSO Antibody; Blood; Endocytosis; Immune Response. Specific immune responses can distinguish among different invaders. The response is different for each invader. With nonspecific defenses, the protection is always the same, no matter what the invader may be. Whereas only vertebrates have specific immune responses, all animals have some type of nonspecific defense.
In animals, there are two types of defenses against foreign invaders: specific and nonspecific. Specific immune responses can distinguish among different invaders. The response is different for each invader. With nonspecific defenses, the protection is always the same, no matter what the invader may be. Whereas only vertebrates have specific immune responses, all animals have some type of nonspecific defense. Examples of nonspecific defenses include physical barriers, protein defenses, cellular defenses, inflammation, and fever
More Information: Antibodies (also known as immunoglobulins, abbreviated Ig) are gamma globulin proteins that are found in blood or other bodily fluids of vertebrates, and are used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects, such as bacteria and viruses. The main non-specific defenses consist of: Lysozymes-such as teardrops which attack bacterial cell walls causing the cell to burst or lyse. Ciliated Epithelia-which are hairlike fibers that can catch pathogens and dispose of them.
Cellular Defenses. Natural killer cells and macrophages are examples of nonspecific cellular defenses. Natural killer cells are a class of lymphocytes that recognize abnormal cells (such as cancerous cells or virus-infected cells), attach to them, and release chemicals that destroy them. Specific immune responses can distinguish among different invaders. The response is different for each invader. With nonspecific defenses, the protection is always the same, no matter what the invader may be. Whereas only vertebrates have specific immune responses, all animals have some type of nonspecific defense.
It is non-specific and is a barrier to the outside world. Your body has various non-specific defenses to path … ogens such as bacteria and viruses. But overall the non-specific defense system is made up of skin, epithelial tissue, and mucous membranes which are always on and preventing pathogenic attacks so to speak. And then you have preventative measures in your blood and in your body. The main non-specific defenses consist of: Lysozymes-such as teardrops which attack bacterial cell walls causing the cell to burst or lyse. Ciliated Epithelia-which are hairlike fibers that can catch pathogens and dispose of them.
Helper T cells activate B cells that produce antibodies. Supressor T cells slow down and stop the immune response of B and T cells, serving as an off switch for the immune system. Cytotoxic (or killer) T cells destroy body cells infected with a virus or bacteria. Immunity results from the production of antibodies specific to a given antigen (antibody-generators, located on the surface of an invader). Antibodies bind to the antigens on invaders and kill or inactivate them in several ways. Most antibodies are themselves proteins or are a mix of protein and polysaccharides.
The body has a number of defenses against pathogens. These defenses fall into two types: 1  Nonspecific defenses are defenses that protect against any pathogen, regardless of the organism. 2  Usually, this pertains to the host, such as an intact skin and phagocytes that act against many potential pathogens. 1 Be able to differentiate between non-specific and specific defenses. 2  Be able to give examples of nonspecific defenses, (both mechanical and chemical defenses). 3  Be familiar with the various kinds of blood cells and their roles.