For cooked liver, I would keep it no longer than 4 days, liverwurst (once cut) about 1 month. Uncooked meats, if previously frozen, last only a few days after thawing, yet fresh cuts of meat [never frozen] can last about a month, if refrigerated and packaged properly. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked.
Reputation: 3585. I think it would depend on how it's packaged. If it's in a small package of slices (like Oscar Mayer liver cheese), I wouldn't keep it more than 3-4 days after opening. If it's wrapped like a whole liver wurst, it should last a lot longer--it has a lot of salt (preservative) & isn't exposed to the air
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 14 people found this useful. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 7
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 20 people found this useful. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 7
That depends on how and where you store it. Under most conditions, breast milk stays fresh at room temperature (60 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit) for three to four hours. But expressed milk that has little bacteria can last for six to eight hours if room temperature remains on the cooler side. You can refrigerate breast milk for three to five days and freeze it to keep it fresh even longer. Thawed breast milk will keep in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours (but don't refreeze it). If you're traveling, you can store breast milk in an insulated cooler with ice packs for up to 24 hours. 1 In a refrigerator that has a separate door to the freezer, frozen breast milk lasts for 3 to 6 months. 2  And in a deep freezer or chest, frozen breast milk keeps for 6 to 12 months.
Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 11 people found this useful. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 7
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. Food poisoning — also called foodborne illness — is caused by harmful organisms, such as bacteria in contaminated food.
How long can cooked lasagna keep in the fridge?   Cooked meat only keeps 3 days in the fridge:   http://www.canfightbac.org/cpcfse/en/cookwell/ask/where_how/#218   If you've got leftovers that you might not want t … o eat that quickly-freeze them on the day you cook them (chill first). You can always defrost them tomorrow if you need them then. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked.