An undergraduate degree in biology with coursework in zoology and wildlife biology is also good preparation for a career as a zoologist or wildlife biologist. Zoologists and wildlife biologists typically need at least a master’s degree for higher-level positions. Zoologists and wildlife biologists need at least a bachelor’s degree. Many schools offer bachelor’s degree programs in zoology and wildlife biology or a closely related field such as ecology.
To become a wildlife biologist, you need to begin by earning a Bachelor of Science degree in biology or a closely related field such as environmental science or zoology. Below we've outlined what you'll need to succeed in a career as a wildlife biologist. We've also included helpful information for a wildlife biologist career, such as job description, job duties, salary expectations, a list of possible employers and much more!
To begin a career as a wildlife biologist, you'll need a bachelor's degree in a biological science field, such as wildlife science, ecology or environmental science. With a bachelor's degree and the appropriate amount of experience, you can pursue voluntary certification credentials through The Wildlife Society. 
The Wildlife Society grants certification to wildlife biologists after they meet the organizations rigorous education and experience requirements. The path to certification typically includes a minimum of a bachelor's degree and at least five years of practical experience. Find out how to become a certified wildlife biologist. Research the education and training requirements, and learn about the experience you need to advance your career in wildlife biology.
To obtain experience, you can volunteer or work as a wildlife biologist for a state or federal agency such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or National Park Service. Another way to meet the experience requirement is to complete either a master's or Ph.D. degree program in wildlife biology or a related subject. Find out how to become a certified wildlife biologist. Research the education and training requirements, and learn about the experience you need to advance your career in wildlife biology.
A Wildlife Biologist may work with wild animals such as birds, fish, and mammals, or with environments such as wetlands and prairies. Wildlife Biologists work for governmental agencies or private groups such as the Conservancy. 
Education. Zoologists and wildlife biologists need at least a bachelor's degree. Many schools offer bachelor's degree programs in zoology and wildlife biology or a closely related field such as ecology. An undergraduate degree in biology with coursework in zoology and wildlife biology is also good preparation for a career as a zoologist or wildlife biologist. Zoologists and wildlife biologists typically need at least a master's degree for higher-level positions. A Ph.D. is necessary for most independent research and for university research
Wildlife Biology Degree Program Information. In a wildlife biology degree program students are instructed in the behavior, origin and habitats of animals and other wildlife. Individuals pursuing careers as wildlife biologists may enter wildlife biology degree programs at the bachelor's, master's and doctoral level. View 10 Popular Schools ». 
Education. To land an entry-level job, zoologists and wildlife biologists need a bachelor's degree in zoology, wildlife biology, ecology, animal science or environmental studies. Key classes include anatomy, wildlife management, cellular biology and ecology. You don’t need certification to become a zoologist or wildlife biologist, but you do need extensive education. Some trade groups offer optional certification for wildlife biologists who want to burnish their credentials.