in·fest. tr.v. in·fest·ed, in·fest·ing, in·fests. 1. To inhabit or overrun in numbers or quantities large enough to be harmful, threatening, or obnoxious: rats infesting the sewers; streets that were infested with drugs. 2. infest-occupy in large numbers or live on a host; the Kudzu plant infests much of the South and is spreading to the North. overrun, invade. inhabit-be present in; sweet memories inhabit this house.
Full Definition of INFEST. transitive verb. 1. 2. : to live in or on as a parasite. — in·fes·tant \-ˈfes-tənt\ noun. — in·fes·ta·tion \ˌin-ˌfes-ˈtā-shən\ noun. — in·fest·er \in-ˈfes-tər\ noun. See infest defined for English-language learners. 
The noun INFESTATION has 2 senses: 1. the state of being invaded or overrun by parasites. 2. a swarm of insects that attack plants. Familiarity information: INFESTATION used as a noun is rare. Meaning: The state of being invaded or overrun by parasites. Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Hypernyms (infestation is a kind of...): fullness (the condition of being filled to capacity). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of infestation): fascioliasis; fasciolosis (infestation with the liver fluke Fasciola hepatica; liver damage sometimes occurs; related to liver rot)
in·fest. tr.v. in·fest·ed, in·fest·ing, in·fests. 1. To inhabit or overrun in numbers or quantities large enough to be harmful, threatening, or obnoxious: rats infesting the sewers; streets that were infested with drugs. 2. To live as a parasite in or on: livestock that were infested with tapeworms. Between Omaha and the Pacific the railway crosses a territory which is still infested by Indians and wild beasts, and a large tract which the Mormons, after they were driven from Illinois in 1845, began to colonise. Around The World In Eighty Days by Verne, Jules View in context.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Mikipedia. Confidence votes 11.4K. Bear-infested is a compound word; it means that an area (such as a campground) has become home to a lot of bears, and therefore the chances of a bear encounter are much greater. 
infest. vb (tr). 1. to inhabit or overrun in dangerously or unpleasantly large numbers. 2. (of parasites such as lice) to invade and live on or in (a host). infest-occupy in large numbers or live on a host; the Kudzu plant infests much of the South and is spreading to the North. overrun, invade. inhabit-be present in; sweet memories inhabit this house.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: infestation (Noun). The presence of a large number of pest organisms in an area or field, on the surface of a host or anything that might contact a host, or in the soil. 