Osteichthyes /ˌɒstiːˈɪkθi.iːz/ , also called bony fish, are a taxonomic group of fish that have bone, as opposed to cartilaginous, skeletons. The vast majority of fish are osteichthyes, which is an extremely diverse and abundant group consisting of 45 orders, and over 435 families and 28,000 species. 
Class Osteichthyes (the bony fish) is the largest class of vertebrates with over 20,000 species. The total numbers of fishes exceed that of all other kinds of vertebrates combined. Lobe-finned fish, the other type of bony fish, have muscular fins supported by bones. Only one species of lobe-finned fish, the coelacanth, still lives. Key features of Osteichthyes. 1  Skeleton more or less bony, vertebrae numerous. 2  Skin with mucous glands and embedded dermal scales. 3  some without scales. 4  Paired fins.
Bony fish include the lobe-finned fish and the ray finned fish. The lobe-finned fish is the class of fleshy finned fishes, consisting of lungfish, and coelacanths. They are bony fish with fleshy, lobed paired fins, which are joined to the body by a single bone. 
Other hallmarks of these fish are paired fins, many teeth, dermal scales in the skin (in most species), and numerous vertebrae. Most bony fish are ray-finned fish, meaning that they have thin, flexible skeletal rays. Lobe-finned fish, the other type of bony fish, have muscular fins supported by bones. Only one species of lobe-finned fish, the coelacanth, still lives. Key features of Osteichthyes. 1  Skeleton more or less bony, vertebrae numerous. 2  Skin with mucous glands and embedded dermal scales. 3  some without scales. 4  Paired fins.
BONY FISH SPECIES The following bony fishes are found within the coral cap region of the sanctuary (0-130 ft, 0-40m deep). Common names are listed, if known. Click on a link below to go directly to a specific group of fish, or scroll down the page to see them all. Click on any photo to see a larger image.
The bony fishes are distinguished from other living fishes by their bone skeletons and by the presence of either a swim bladder (which functions as a float) or, in a few fishes, lungs. The bony fishes are divided into two subclasses, the fleshy-finned fish and the ray-finned fish. The cartilaginous fish (sharks, rays, and chimaeras) are distinguished from the bony fish by their cartilage skeletons, by the absence of either a swim bladder or lungs, by the construction of their tail fins, and by the absence in most of a gill covering, or operculum.
True bony fish types include cyprinids (barbs, danios), characins (tetras), catfish, eels, elephant snout fish, killifish, knifefish, loaches, hillstream loaches, and puffers. Pseudo-bony fish types include families like bichers and ropefish. 
Characteristics and Classification of Bony Fish: Some documents refer to the bony fish as the Osteichthyes, which used to be recognized as a class of organisms. Osteichthyes is still used commonly to refer to the two main types of bony fish: 1  Ray-finned fishes, or Actinopterygii. 2  Lobe-finned fishes, or Sarcopterygii, which includes the coelacanths and lungfishes. 
The gnathostome lineage that produced cartilaginous fish diverged from the bony fish lineage shortly after the placoderm lineage diverged. Sharks have always been the major type of cartilaginous fish and have undergone two great adaptive radiations, the first of which occurred in the Siluran and Devonian Periods. 