Multivitamin/mineral (MVM) supplements contain a combination of vitamins and minerals, and sometimes other ingredients as well. They go by many names, including multis and multiples or simply vitamins. The vitamins and minerals in MVMs have unique roles in the body. 
Niacin (Vitamin B3) is found in fish such as tuna and salmon, poultry (chicken and turkey), roasted peanuts and mushrooms. All of these vitamins – Vitamin C, Vitamin B7 (Biotin) and Vitamin B3 (Niacin) have been proven to help promote healthy hair growth and reduce hair loss. Viviscal Extra Strength contains some of the best vitamins and minerals for hair growth, including Iron, Zinc, Biotin, Niacin, Vitamin C and an exclusive marine complex derived from fish proteins. Viviscal hair growth supplements are clinically proven to nourish hair.
Hair minerals. Iron and Zinc are two minerals that promote healthy hair growth. Iron-rich foods are lean meats, spinach, chicken and beans or lentils. Iron is an essential mineral that has several important roles in the body including helping to make red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body to all the cells. Viviscal Extra Strength contains some of the best vitamins and minerals for hair growth, including Iron, Zinc, Biotin, Niacin, Vitamin C and an exclusive marine complex derived from fish proteins. Viviscal hair growth supplements are clinically proven to nourish hair.
Like vitamins, minerals such as calcium, iron and phosphorus are essential nutrients that your body requires for healthy growth, development and repair as well as normal function and processes. There are two different types of dietary iron. Heme iron is found in meat, poultry, fish and shellfish and is more easily absorbed by the body. The second kind, nonheme iron, is primarily found in green leafy vegetables, legumes, nuts, seeds and whole grains and is not as
Prenatal Vitamins. Prenatal vitamins consist of a variety of vitamins and minerals that help you baby get the nutrients that are essential for healthy development. During pregnancy, a woman’s daily intake requirements for certain nutrients, such as folic acid (folate), calcium, and iron will increase. Vitamins and minerals such as iron, calcium, and folic acid are vital for proper fetal growth, development, and healthy adult living.
Iron is an essential mineral, with several important roles in the body. For example, it helps to make red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body. A lack of iron can lead to iron deficiency anaemia. Good sources of iron include: 1  liver. 2  meat. 3  beans. 4  nuts. 5  dried fruit – such as dried apricots. 6  wholegrains – such as brown rice. 7  fortified breakfast cereals. 8  soybean flour. 9  most dark-green leafy vegetables – such as watercress and curly kale. Good sources of iron. Good sources of iron include: 1  liver. 2  meat. 3  beans. 4  nuts. 5  dried fruit – such as dried apricots. 6  wholegrains – such as brown rice. 7  fortified breakfast cereals.
A diet rich in the minerals Iron and Zinc will help nourish hair from the inside out. If you do not have enough of the minerals in your diet to promote hair growth, consider taking dietary supplements for hair growth, such as Viviscal Extra Strength. Viviscal Extra Strength contains some of the best vitamins and minerals for hair growth, including Iron, Zinc, Biotin, Niacin, Vitamin C and an exclusive marine complex derived from fish proteins. Viviscal hair growth supplements are clinically proven to nourish hair.
A multivitamin is a preparation intended to be a dietary supplement with vitamins, dietary minerals, and other nutritional elements. Such preparations are available in the form of tablets, capsules, pastilles, powders, liquids, and injectable formulations. 