1 Place the beef filet mignon on the unheated rack of the broiler pan. 2  Using the following timings, broil the meat, turning once halfway through the broiling time: 3  For a 1-inch filet cut, broil 12 to 14 minutes for medium rare (145 degrees F) or 15 to 18 minutes for medium (160 degrees F). 1 Place the filet on the grill rack over the heat. 2  Cover the grill. 3  Use the following timings for grilling filet mignon, and turn once halfway through the grilling time: 4  For a 1-inch cut, grill 10 to 12 minutes for medium rare (145 degrees F) or 12 to 15 minutes for medium (160 degrees F).
Directions. Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F. Place the beef on a sheet pan and pat the outside dry with a paper towel. Spread the butter on with your hands. Sprinkle evenly with the salt and pepper. Roast in the oven for exactly 22 minutes for rare and 25 minutes for medium-rare. Remove the beef from the oven, cover it tightly with aluminum foil, and allow it to rest at room temperature for 20 minutes. Remove the strings and slice the fillet thickly
1 Place the fillet in oven and reduce temperature to 425° F. Roast about 25 minutes for rare or until a meat thermometer reads 130° F when inserted into the center. (Check the temperature once after about 20 minutes to gauge doneness.) Remove the fillet from oven and allow it to rest 10 minutes before slicing. Directions. 1  Remove the fillet from the refrigerator 30 minutes before roasting to bring it to room temperature. 2  Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 3  Note: See Beef Tenderloin Cocktail Sandwiches with Flavored Butter to use this fillet for elegant hors d'oeuvres.
Place on a rack in a roasting pan. Sprinkle remaining herb mixture over top of fillet. Roast beef fillet in heated 450-degree F. oven 40 minutes or until an instant-read thermometer registers an internal temperature of 145 degrees F. for medium-rare. Remove from oven. Let rest 10 to 15 minutes before carving. If serving cold, cool to room temperature and then refrigerate. 
Place meat on grill rack over heat. Cover the grill.) Remove steaks from grill; cover and let stand for 5 minutes. For more tenderloin steak recipes, see: Grilled Steak and Peppers Grilled Beef Fillet with Portobello Relish Beef Tenderloins with Wine Sauce Try filet mignon! Our best filet mignon cooking tips. Let stand for 15 minutes before slicing. The temperature of the meat will rise during this time (this is reflected in the timings below). Untitled Document Cut Description How to use it Whole tenderloin roast, trimmed This is a long, cylindrical, boneless cut from the loin. Usually about 4 to 6 pounds.
1 Remove the fillet from the refrigerator 30 minutes before roasting to bring it to room temperature. 2  Preheat oven to 500° F and position a rack in the center. 3  Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 4  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, and thyme. Directions. 1  Remove the fillet from the refrigerator 30 minutes before roasting to bring it to room temperature. 2  Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 3  Note: See Beef Tenderloin Cocktail Sandwiches with Flavored Butter to use this fillet for elegant hors d'oeuvres.
Roast the tenderloin until an instant-read meat thermometer indicates an internal temperature of 135 degrees for medium rare or 145 degrees for medium. A two to three pound tenderloin will take 30 to 40 minutes to reach medium rare and 45 to 50 minutes to reach medium. 
1 Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 2  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, and thyme. 3  Heat the oil in a 12-inch ovenproof skillet over high heat; the oil should shimmer but not smoke. 4  Brown the fillet on all sides, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Directions. 1  Remove the fillet from the refrigerator 30 minutes before roasting to bring it to room temperature. 2  Spread the mustard evenly on all sides of the fillet. 3  Note: See Beef Tenderloin Cocktail Sandwiches with Flavored Butter to use this fillet for elegant hors d'oeuvres.