Although the etymology of the name of Julius Caesar is not known with certainty, many scholars believe that it was simply a use of the Latin expression caesar meaning hairy. The first Emperor, Caesar Augustus, bore the name as a matter of course; born Gaius Octavius, he was posthumously adopted by Caesar in his will, and per Roman naming conventions was renamed Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus (usually called Octavian in English when referring to this stage of his life).
Caesares) is a title of imperial character. It derives from the cognomen of Julius Caesar, the Roman dictator. The change from being a familial name to a title adopted by the Roman Emperors can be dated to about AD 68/69, the so-called  Year of the Four Emperors . The first Emperor, Caesar Augustus, bore the name as a matter of course; born Gaius Octavius, he was posthumously adopted by Caesar in his will, and per Roman naming conventions was renamed Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus (usually called Octavian in English when referring to this stage of his life).
Biblical Meaning: The name Cesar is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Cesar is: A name applied to those who are cut out of the womb. Latin Meaning: The name Cesar is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Cesar is: Long haired Spanish.
What does Caesar mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Caesar is of Latin origin. The meaning of Caesar is long haired, roman emporer. It is also of English and Roman origin, where its meaning is hairy. 
Definition of CAESAR. 1. : any of the Roman emperors succeeding Augustus Caesar —used as a title. 2. a often not capitalized: a powerful ruler: (1) : emperor (2) : autocrat, dictator b [from the reference in Matthew 22:21] : the civil power: a temporal ruler. — Cae·sar·e·an or Cae·sar·i·an \si-ˈzer-ē-ən\ adjective. 
Caesar /cae-sar/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced SEE-zer. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Caesar is head of hair. Clan name of obscure meaning, possibly from caesaries. The most famous bearer was Julius Caesar (104-44 BC). Due to his fame and power, Caesar then became the title of the Roman emperors with the meaning ruler, and led to Russian Tsar (see Czar) and German Kaiser. Saint Caesarius (fourth century) was physician to two emperors.
Danish Meaning: The name Caesar is a Danish baby name. In Danish the meaning of the name Caesar is: Long hair. Swedish Meaning: The name Caesar is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Caesar is: Long hair. American Meaning: The name Caesar is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Caesar is: Long hair. Latin Meaning: The name Caesar is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Caesar is: The family name of Roman dictator Gaius Julias Caesar. Its origin is uncertain:, but may come from 'caesaries' meaning hair, or 'caesius' meaning 'bluish-grey, or 'caedere' meaning to cut, perhaps referring to his birth by Caesarean section.
Origin of the name Cesar: From the Latin Caesar, a name of uncertain etymology. Some believe Caesar to be derived from caedo (to cut); others think it to be from caesius (blue-gray). Another suggestion is that it is derived from caesaries (hairy, with abundant hair). 
From a Roman cognomen which possibly meant hairy, from Latin caesaries hair. Julius Caesar and his adopted son Julius Caesar Octavianus (commonly known as Augustus) were both rulers of the Roman Empire in the 1st century BC. Caesar was used as a title by the emperors that came after them. Related Names