Indoor field hockey, or indoor hockey, is an indoor variant of traditional outdoor field hockey. It is not to be confused with other indoor hockey variants such as rink hockey or floorball. 
Each team plays with eleven players including the goalie. Players use sticks made out of wood or fiber glass to hit a round, hard, rubber like ball. The length of the stick depends on the player's individual height. There are left hand sticks in field hockey, but only one side of the stick is allowed to be used. Goalies have a different kind of stick. Theirs has another curve on the end of the stick. The uniform consists of shin-guards, cleats, skirts (usually referred to as kilts) or shorts, a mouth guard and a jersey. A popular variant of field hockey is indoor field hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey. Indoor hockey is a 5-a-side variant, with a field which is reduced to approximately 40 m × 20 m (131 ft × 66 ft).
Field hockey sticks come in a wide range of lengths, to fit any size or age player on the field. Ranging from about 28 to 38 long, field hockey stick length can drastically affect your game and your comfort on the field. For instance, a stick that is too long will be clunky and difficult to maneuver, and may limit your agility on the field. The end of the field hockey stick that makes contact with the field and the ball. The head is flat on one side (face) and rounded on the other, to give you a wide surface area to shoot, stop, and pass the ball.
There are two different types of sticks that field hockey players use: Wooden and Composite. While wooden sticks are known for strength and durability, composite sticks are heavier and more powerful. Based on weight, different sticks tend to work better for different positions. 1  19 - 20 ounces-Designed for forwards. 1 The size and length of the stick you use completely depends on the length of each individual player's body. 2  Field hockey sticks range from about 28 to 38 long, and having the proper stick length can drastically affect your game.
Field hockey, or simply hockey, is a team sport of the hockey family. The earliest origins of the sport date back to the Middle Ages in England, Scotland and the Netherlands. The game can be played on a grass field or a turf field as well as an indoor board surface. A popular variant of field hockey is indoor field hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey. Indoor hockey is a 5-a-side variant, with a field which is reduced to approximately 40 m × 20 m (131 ft × 66 ft).
Weight Field Hockey sticks range in weight from 535 grams to 560 grams. The appropriate weight of the stick typically depends on personal preference, however there are advantages to both a lighter stick and a heavier stick. 
Whether you are a youth, competitive, advanced, or elite field hockey player is going to determine which types of sticks you use. Also, most companies distinguish between indoor and outdoor field hockey sticks. At Sports Unlimited, we bring you field hockey sticks from some of the top brands in the industry today. Your field hockey stick is your main weapon out there on the field. It's your central connection to the ball, and an extension of your personal talents.
At the end of the day, if you or your child is just starting out in field hockey, look for a more affordable, more forgiving field hockey stick. Once they start playing, they will begin to understand which stick works best for them, and they can move on to more expensive, more advanced level sticks. The end of the field hockey stick that makes contact with the field and the ball. The head is flat on one side (face) and rounded on the other, to give you a wide surface area to shoot, stop, and pass the ball.
Answers. Best Answer: http://www.usfieldhockey.com/hockey/indo... Stick: The stick requirements are the same for both indoor and outdoor hockey, however players often prefer a lighter, quicker stick specially made for indoor use. US Field Hockey's National Indoor Tournament Rules require the use of an indoor stick. NOTE-Every league is different-you may want to check with your coach.... Most Indoor games require ONLY the Indoor stick.... Here's another site for review... http://www.yorksportscenter.com/index.cf...
Stick: The stick requirements are the same for both indoor and outdoor hockey, however players often prefer a lighter, quicker stick specially made for indoor use. The stick consists of a straight handle with a curved head. The lower part of the stick's left-hand (playing side) is smooth and flat. US Field Hockey's National Indoor Tournament Rules require the use of an indoor stick. NOTE-Every league is different-you may want to check with your coach.... Most Indoor games require ONLY the Indoor stick.... Here's another site for review... http://www.yorksportscenter.com/index.cf...