Repurposing is essentially a form of recycling. Instead of throwing an item away, an individual or business finds a new use for it. This can be a cost-effective strategy, since items that can be used instead of discarded prevent a business from having to purchase new, possibly expensive items.
To reuse for a different purpose, on a long-term basis, without alteration. The town common was repurposed as a practice field. repurpose (Verb). To alter to make more suited for a different purpose. The church was repurposed as a nightclub by lighting changes and removing the pews, but it never opened.
In essence, content repurposing is content recycling. Much in the same way that a glass bottle might be used for beer, and then recycled to be used for soda, content can be recycled and adapted for use in a different purpose (repurposed).
We all know what recycling means. But repurposing is different. It's reusing something while giving it a new role — like turning an old door into a headboard for a bed or using old studs from a house as fence posts. It's sort of like recycling, but you could call it upcycling..
AAA |. The use of something for a purpose other than its original intended used. Repurposing an item can be done by modifying it to fit a new use, or by using the item as is in a new way. The practice is not limited to physical items, and is a common practice for marketing material and content.
By Tricia Hodson (LazyTcrochet). You see the term “repurpose” or “repurposed” more and more. It’s often used synonymously with “recycled” or “upcycled.” Artists reuse or recycle materials, giving them a new purpose. zJayne’s shop is a classic example of how t-shirts can be used for many different products, from market bags to dryer pillow sheets.
DEFINITION of 'Repurposing'. The use of something for a purpose other than its original intended used. Repurposing an item can be done by modifying it to fit a new use, or by using the item as is in a new way. The practice is not limited to physical items, and is a common practice for marketing material and content.