Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing Providing excellent nursing education for more than 50 years. Our students graduate prepared for a successful career in nursing, as evidenced in our #1 national ranking on the NCLEX-RN licensure exam. That’s what nursing is, being there to help them through a season in life and do things that they can’t do for themselves. Allison I chose Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing because I really like the personal touch. Even in the application process, the staff reached out and made me feel wanted.
Hi Revahs, As far as I know the starting pay at Sentara for new grads this year was $17.50 and I believe it will be up to $18 once I graduate in May '05. Sentara also offers tuition reimbursement out-of-area new BSN grads. I am new to the area and have discovered that the pay for RN's is about the same here if not lower than in Oklahoma. Sentara does have good benefits but the pay is low. It is obvious that they have a monopoly on the medical field and can set the pay at what they want because of the monopoly.
The annual total list price cost to go to Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing was $17,671 for the 2014/2015 academic year. The cost is the same for all students regardless of Virginia residence status as there is no in-state discount. 0% of Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing students received grant aid in 2013/2014. The average total aid amount was $0. 0 percent of students received aid in the form of Pell Grants from the U.S. Federal Government. The average Pell Grant awarded for 2013/2014 was $0
With the RN to BSN program, I could complete my school work at home, schedule my school time around my work schedule and still have time for my family. learn more. Erin, graduate Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing was the perfect choice for me in pursuing a career in nursing. I am truly impressed by how dedicated every faculty and staff member is toward their students.. Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing was the perfect choice for me in pursuing a career in nursing. That’s what nursing is, being there to help them through a season in life and do things that they can’t do for themselves. Allison I chose Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing because I really like the personal touch. Even in the application process, the staff reached out and made me feel wanted.
0 I'm considering relocating to Richmond, VA for a position at Bon Secours, in a non nursing position. Is there anyone here who works at Bon Secours and is not working as a nurse? 
The net out-of-pocket total cost you end up paying or financing though student loans is known as the net price. The reported Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing net price for in-state students $0* for the 2013/2014 academic year. This net price includes housing and meal expenses. 0% of Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing students received grant aid in 2013/2014. The average total aid amount was $0. 0 percent of students received aid in the form of Pell Grants from the U.S. Federal Government. The average Pell Grant awarded for 2013/2014 was $0
The average Bon Secours Health System salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Certified Nursing Assistant to $176,000 per year for Vice President. Average Bon Secours Health System hourly pay ranges from approximately $9.80 per hour for Certified Nursing Assistant to $32.00 per hour for Staff Nurse. 
Hello! Does anyone know about pay scales, etc. for new grad RN's in the Richmond area? What about Bon Secours versus HCA? or even VCU/MCV? How does one find out the real deal? I am new to the area and have discovered that the pay for RN's is about the same here if not lower than in Oklahoma. Sentara does have good benefits but the pay is low. It is obvious that they have a monopoly on the medical field and can set the pay at what they want because of the monopoly.
Estimated future prices are based on the current 4 year cost of $70,684.00. Use the college savings plan calculator below to perform a more comprehensive analysis on future costs and how much you will need to save for Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing. 0% of Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing students received grant aid in 2013/2014. The average total aid amount was $0. 0 percent of students received aid in the form of Pell Grants from the U.S. Federal Government. The average Pell Grant awarded for 2013/2014 was $0