A+E Networks. On this day in 1899, in Detroit, Michigan, Henry Ford resigns his position as chief engineer at the Edison Illuminating Company’s main plant in order to concentrate on automobile production. Henry Ford left his family’s farm in Dearborn, Michigan, at age 16 to work in the machine shops of Detroit.
Henry Ford was an innovative businessman who, like many company owners, saw a need and wanted to fill that need. The Ford motor company grew out of Ford's own inventiveness. In 1896, Ford invented the Quadricycle, the first horseless carriage that he produced.
In a final settlement, Ford left with his name and 900 dollars; he went on to start the Ford Motor Company in 1903. In August 1902, Henry M. Leland was brought in by the investors to appraise the plant and equipment prior to selling them. Instead, Leland persuaded them to continue in the automobile business. The Henry Ford Company reorganized that year as Cadillac in honor of Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac, the founder of Detroit. Cadillac's first car was completed on October 17, 1902, the 10 horsepower (7 kW) Cadillac.
The Henry Ford Company was the second company for Henry Ford, founded November, 1901. It resulted from the reorganization of the Detroit Automobile Company, his first unsuccessful attempt at automobile manufacture a year before.
With the help of C. Harold Wills, Ford designed, built, and successfully raced a 26-horsepower automobile in October 1901. With this success, Murphy and other stockholders in the Detroit Automobile Company formed the Henry Ford Company on November 30, 1901, with Ford as chief engineer.
Most people don’t know that before starting the Ford Motor Company in 1903, Henry Ford was a part of two failed automobile enterprises. The first was the Detroit Automobile Company, which folded after Ford failed to ship a working automobile.
The Ford motor company grew out of Ford's own inventivene … ss. In 1896, Ford invented the Quadricycle, the first horseless carriage that he produced. Its popularity helped fund and launch Ford's business, and the new Ford Motor Company was founded 7 years later, on 16 June 1903.
Born in 1863, Henry Ford was the first surviving son of William and Mary Ford, who owned a prosperous farm in Dearborn, Michigan. At 16, he left home for the nearby city of Detroit, where he found apprentice work as a machinist.