PROFILE. An English cricketer of Pakistani descent, Moeen Ali, played county cricket for Warwickshire before moving over to Worcestershire after the 2006 season. He enjoyed a successful stint at Warwickshire, winning the NBC Dennis Compton Award for two years in a row in 2004 and 2005. CAREER. An English cricketer of Pakistani descent, Moeen Ali, played county cricket for Warwickshire before moving over to Worcestershire after the 2006 season.
World Twenty20 — Moeen Munir Ali is an English cricketer of Pakistani descent, who scored a brilliant 44 against India in the warm-up match. previous next. Getty Images Photo by Staff/Getty Images Fri 21 Mar, 2014 1:30 PM IST. Ali had signed for Warwickshire when he was just 15, and scored a half-century for the county’s Second XI only days before his 16th birthday. Ali had signed for Warwickshire when he was just 15, and scored a half-century for the county’s Second XI only days before his 16th birthday. 1  Share 0.
Date: 15 Feb, 2015. Moeen Ali who is an English cricket player was born on 18th June of 1987. He is of Pakistani descent. He is left handed batsman and occasionally off-spin bowler who had played county cricket for the Warwickshire. He is the native of Birmingham, West Midlands, England. Not yet. Moeen Ali who is an English cricket player was born on 18 th June of 1987. He is of Pakistani descent. He is left handed batsman and occasionally off-spin bowler who had played county cricket for the Warwickshire.
Moeen Munir Ali (born 18 June 1987), or simply Moeen Ali, is an international English cricketer. He is a left-handed batsman and right-arm off-spin bowler who played county cricket for Warwickshire before moving to Worcestershire after the 2006 season. As of 2015, Ali represents England in all formats of the game. He won Warwickshire's NBC Denis Compton Award in both 2004 and 2005. His off-spin is marked by a strongly spun off-break and a well-concealed arm ball. He was named one of the Cricketers of the Year in the 2015 Wisden Cricketers' Almanack.
Moeen Ali Batting Allrounder • England • 28 years old. An English cricketer of Pakistani descent, Moeen Ali, played county cricket for Warwickshire before moving over to Worcestershire after the 2006 season. He enjoyed a successful stint at Warw... CAREER. An English cricketer of Pakistani descent, Moeen Ali, played county cricket for Warwickshire before moving over to Worcestershire after the 2006 season. He enjoyed a successful stint at Warwickshire, winning the NBC Dennis Compton Award for two years in a row in 2004 and 2005
That question arose at 1.55pm on Thursday when Moeen Ali, born in Birmingham 27 years ago to a Pakistani family, walked out to bat for England on a sunlit day at Lord’s. It was a proud moment for Ali, a batsman who plays his county cricket for Worcestershire. 
England and Worcestershire all-rounder Moeen Ali has won the Cricketer of the Year prize for the second year running at the Asian Cricket Awards. Moeen, who is currently on tour with England in the United Arab Emirates, won the award in 2014 at the inaugural edition of the event, and scooped the same prize on Tuesday. The 28-year-old beat off competition from fellow England international Adil Rashid, who is making his Test debut against Pakistan, and Warwickshire captain Varun Chopra. Moeen Ali (left) has won the Cricketer of the Year for the second year running at the Asian Cricket Awards. Moeen, who is currently on tour with England in the United Arab Emirates, won the award in 2014