The German discount retailer, which already operates 8,000 stores worldwide, is preparing for a major push into California and the western United States. Its plans include a regional headquarters and logistics operation in Moreno Valley. Aldi, the global discount supermarket chain, is coming to California. 
Aldi also has longer-term plans in the west, following those first stores in Southern California, to eventually open its small-format (about 10,000 square-foot) grocery markets throughout California and in other nearby western states, including Nevada, Arizona and others, according to our sources. Aldi representatives are interviewing candidates for the positions tomorrow and Wednesday in Southern California. Once hired, the buying managers will move to Chicago for an eight month training period, where they will be trained at Aldi's corporate office and in its stores in the region.
Aldi, a German-owned chain of grocery stores, plans to open 45 Southern California locations by the end of 2016. Here are some Aldi facts: • The company opened its first U.S. stores in 1976 in Iowa. • Aldi plans to open 45 stores in Southern California by the end of 2016. • Each store will be about 10,000 square feet, employing about 20 people. • Aldi’s Southern California headquarters will be in Moreno Valley. — Kevin Smith. Aldi, a German discount grocer with nearly 1,400 U.S. stores, plans to open 45 locations in Southern California, with the first stores opening in March. A CLOSER LOOK. Aldi, a German-owned chain of grocery stores, plans to open 45 Southern California locations by the end of 2016. Here are some Aldi facts: • The company opened its first U.S. stores in 1976 in Iowa. • Aldi plans to open 45 Southland stores by the end of 2016.
The arrival of Aldi in Southern California will be a major game-changer in the region, as has been the case in each market the discount grocer has entered in the U.S., which includes the Midwest, South, Mid-Atlantic, eastern and Southwest (Texas) regions in the U.S. Aldi currently has about 1,300 stores in the U.S. Aldi representatives are interviewing candidates for the positions tomorrow and Wednesday in Southern California. Once hired, the buying managers will move to Chicago for an eight month training period, where they will be trained at Aldi's corporate office and in its stores in the region.
The hard-discount grocer, which is headquartered in Germany and has its U.S. corporate office in Illinois, will set up shop in Southern California in the coming months, with plans to open its first stores in the region in nine months to a year, Fresh & Easy Buzz has learned. Aldi representatives are interviewing candidates for the positions tomorrow and Wednesday in Southern California. Once hired, the buying managers will move to Chicago for an eight month training period, where they will be trained at Aldi's corporate office and in its stores in the region.
Supermarket chain Aldi plans to open 650 new stores in the U.S. the next five years, part of an aggressive growth strategy that includes building a regional headquarters and distribution center in Moreno Valley, Calif. In the next five years, Aldi plans to open about 130 new locations a year, up from its average of 80 stores in recent years.
Supermarket chain Aldi, which plans to open 650 new stores in the U.S. in the next five years, has acquired a 55-acre site in Moreno Valley where it will build its Southern California regional headquarters. President David Prior said. In December Aldi announced plans to open 650 new stores in the U.S. in the next five years including building a Southern California regional headquarters and distribution center in Moreno Valley. The expansion would be the budget grocer's first step into the Golden State.
Aldi, dubbed the world's best grocery chain, plans to open 45 new stores by the end of 2016, according to a press release. The first 25 stores will open in Southern California by July 2016. The grocer currently has 1,400 stores nationwide and more than 19,000 employees in 32 states. With these new locations, Aldi is expected to create around 1,100 jobs across its stores, regional headquarters, and warehouse. 