Animation: Continental drift. The Earth’s continents have not always been where they are at present. If you look at a map of the world, you might notice what Alfred Wegener noticed – that the continents look as if they could fit together like a big jigsaw puzzle if you were able to move them around. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. The continental drift theory is the theory that once all the continents were joined in a super-continent, which scientists call Pangaea. Over a vast period of time, the continents drifted apart to their current locations. Alfred Wegener first supported continental drift. 
Continental Drift. If you have ever looked at a map of the Atlantic Ocean, you have probably noticed that the coastlines of Africa and South America seem to fit together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. 
continental drift, geological theory that the relative positions of the continents on the earth's surface have changed considerably through geologic time. 
Continental drift. Continental drift was a theory proposed in 1912 by Alfred Wegener which postulated the movement of continents. This theory is a part of the concept of plate tectonics. Continents have been drifting for hundreds of millions of years. 
Continental Drift. Continental Drift is the theory describing the movement of the continents that is result of plates in the Earth’s crust that move. The movement of these plates is known as plate tectonics. Tweet. About The Author Matt Slick is the President and Founder of the Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry
Antonio Snider-Pellegrini's Illustration of the closed and opened Atlantic Ocean (1858). Continental drift is the movement of the Earth's continents relative to each other, thus appearing to drift across the ocean bed. 
noun. The gradual movement of the continents across the earth’s surface through geological time. Example sentences. 1  Despite the now compelling nature of much of the geological evidence for continental drift, the most unequivocal proof of the movement of continents now surely comes from palaeomagnetism.
More on Continental Drift and Plate-Tectonics Theory from Infoplease: 1  continental drift: meaning and definitions-continental drift: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  continental drift-continental drift continental drift, geological theory that the relative positions of the ... 