A paralegal, like a lawyer, can be employed by a law office or work freelance at a company or law office. Paralegals are not allowed to offer legal services directly to the public on their own and must perform their legal work under an attorney or law firm (except in Ontario Canada). 1 From the Paralegal Society of Ontario: A paralegal is an individual qualified through education or experience licensed to provide legal services to the general public in areas authorized by the Law Society of Upper Canada.
A paralegal is protected under the conduit theory, which means he or she is working as an enhancement of an attorney and what he or she does is due to instruction by the attorney and the attorney is ultimately responsible. Paralegals often have taken a prescribed series of courses in law and legal processes. 1 From the Paralegal Society of Ontario: A paralegal is an individual qualified through education or experience licensed to provide legal services to the general public in areas authorized by the Law Society of Upper Canada.
par·a·le·gal. n. A person who assists a lawyer in the performance of various legal tasks and activities associated with the representation of clients. adj. Of or relating to the tasks performed by a paralegal. paralegal. n. 1. (Law) a person trained to undertake legal work but not qualified as a professional solicitor or barrister. adj. 2. (Law) of or designating such a person.
The role that a paralegal has in the United States is similar to the role of a law clerk or legal assistant in Ontario. Many paralegals in Ontario work in the areas of permitted practice for paralegals and also work alongside lawyers in areas of practice that are only permitted to be practiced by lawyers. 1 From the Paralegal Society of Ontario: A paralegal is an individual qualified through education or experience licensed to provide legal services to the general public in areas authorized by the Law Society of Upper Canada.
par·a·le·gal. n. A person who assists a lawyer in the performance of various legal tasks and activities associated with the representation of clients. adj. Of or relating to the tasks performed by a paralegal. 
Definition of PARALEGAL. : of, relating to, or being a paraprofessional who assists a lawyer. — para·le·gal \ˈpar-ə-ˌlē-gəl\ noun. ADVERTISEMENT
Certified Paralegal (CP) or Certified Legal Assistant (CLA) is the title of paralegals in the United States who have passed the Certified Paralegal Exam and have met additional education and experience requirements for certification as a CP or CLA. A certificate from paralegal school is a Certificate of Completion. The paralegal school these paralegals attended has been approved by the ABA. Out of approximately 1500 or so paralegal schools in the U.S., only about 280 have
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: paralegal (Noun). One who assists a lawyer in their routine work but who is without the qualified status of a solicitor or barrister (England and Wales), attorney (U.S.), or advocate; known more commonly in the U.S. as a legal assistant. Generally speaking, a paralegal is a paraprofessional who has the required education and experience to assist licensed lawyers in their legal work. In Ontario, Canada, paralegals are licensed by the Law Society of Upper Canada.
A paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. 1 From the Paralegal Society of Ontario: A paralegal is an individual qualified through education or experience licensed to provide legal services to the general public in areas authorized by the Law Society of Upper Canada.