Abatacept is used to reduce signs and symptoms of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, such as. joint swelling, pain, and fatigue. Your doctor has prescribed Abatacept because you have not had an. adequate response to other RA medications. The brand name for Abatacept is Orencia™.
Important Limitations of Use: ORENCIA should not be administered concomitantly with TNF antagonists, and is not recommended for use concomitantly with other biologic RA therapy, such as anakinra. Available formulation for JIA: ORENCIA is available as a lyophilized powder for intravenous (IV) infusion.
Serious infections may occur during treatment with abatacept. Stop using abatacept and call your doctor right away if you have signs of infection such as: 1  fever, chills, night sweats, flu symptoms, weight loss; 2  feeling very tired; 3  dry cough, sore throat; or. 4  warmth, pain, or redness of your skin.
Important Limitations of Use: ORENCIA should not be administered concomitantly with TNF antagonists, and is not recommended for use concomitantly with other biologic RA therapy, such as anakinra. ORENCIA is available as a lyophilized powder for intravenous (IV) infusion and as a solution for subcutaneous (SC) injection.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. ORENCIA® (abatacept) is a soluble fusion protein that consists of the extracellular domain of human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) linked to the modified Fc (hinge, CH2, and CH3 domains) portion of human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1).
Abatacept is used to treat the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, and to prevent joint damage caused by these conditions. It is also used to treat arthritis in children who are at least 6 years old. Abatacept is not a cure for any autoimmune disorder and will only treat the symptoms of your condition.
Tell your doctor immediately if you have any signs of infection (such as cough, sore throat, fever, chills, pain when urinating). The immune system is also important in preventing and controlling cancer. Very rarely, patients using abatacept have developed cancer (e.g., lymphoma, lung cancer).
Abatacept (Orencia) is a biologic drug approved for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults, as well as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. These are inflammatory joint conditions causing joint pain, swelling, redness and morning stiffness.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Orencia sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.