Mush — cornmeal pudding (or porridge) is usually boiled in water or milk. It is often allowed to set, or gel into a semi solid, then cut into flat squares or rectangles, and pan fried. 
verb. Mush is defined as a word used to tell sled dogs to move faster. An example of mush used as an interjection is in the sentence, Mush! We are running late!. The definition of a mush is a soft mashed up food substance, especially porridge, or a trip across snow in a sled pulled by dogs. 1  An example of mush is mashed peas. 
• MUSH (noun). The noun MUSH has 4 senses: 1. any soft or soggy mass. 2. cornmeal boiled in water. 3. an expression that is excessively sweet and sentimental. 4. a journey by dogsled. Familiarity information: MUSH used as a noun is uncommon. • MUSH (verb). The verb MUSH has 2 senses: 1. drive (a team of dogs or a dogsled). 2. travel with a dogsled. Familiarity information: MUSH used as a verb is rare.
mush 1. n. 1. A thick porridge or pudding of cornmeal boiled in water or milk. 2. Something thick, soft, and pulpy. 3. Informal Mawkish sentimentality, affection, or amorousness. tr.v. mushed, mush·ing, mush·es. To reduce to mush; mash or crush. mush 1. 1. a thick mixture made by boiling meal, esp. cornmeal, in water or milk. 2. any thick, soft mass. 3. mawkish sentimentality or amorousness.
Definition of MUSH. 1. : a thick porridge made with cornmeal boiled in water or milk. 2. : something soft and spongy or shapeless. 3. a: weak sentimentality: drivel b: mawkish amorousness. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Cornmeal Mush. Cornmeal Mush is one of those great frugal breakfast traditions that’s slowly being lost. It’s very similar to grits, though the cornmeal I buy tends to be ground a little finer. You end up with a hot breakfast cereal that’s a little smoother than your regular bowl of grits. Either way here is how I do it — Cook down your mush in a sauce pan (4:1 water to corn meal-add the corn meal (1 C) to 1/4th the amount of COLD water (1 C) – stir well and let absorb the water while you bring the other 3/4 of the water (3 C) to a full boil.
A primary feature of MUSH codebases that tends to distinguish it from other multi-user environments is the ability, by default, of any player to extend the world by creating new rooms or objects and specifying their behavior in the MUSH's internal scripting language. MUSH Software [edit]. Maintainers and developers of MUSH servers have traditionally shared ideas with one another, so most MUSH servers include concepts or code developed originally in other servers. There is particular interest in ensuring that common MUSHcode features work similarly across servers.
(January 2007). In multiplayer online games, a MUSH (a backronymed pun on MUD most often expanded as M ulti-U ser S hared H allucination, though M ulti-U ser S hared H ack, H abitat, and H olodeck are also observed) is a text-based online social medium to which multiple users are connected at the same time. MUSH Software [edit]. Maintainers and developers of MUSH servers have traditionally shared ideas with one another, so most MUSH servers include concepts or code developed originally in other servers. There is particular interest in ensuring that common MUSHcode features work similarly across servers.