Diorite Gneiss. Diorite is a crystalline igneous rock that exhibits a granular texture and is sometimes alternatively referred to as black granite. The rock is primarily comprised of plagioclase feldspar, but generally contains smaller amounts of biotite, hornblende, or other dark-colored minerals as well. Diorite gneiss chiefly consists of sodium-rich plagioclase feldspar, quartz, and hornblende, as well as minor amounts of biotite, sphene, or other accessory minerals.
It usually contains little if any quartz. This makes diorite a coarse-grained rock with a contrasting mix of black and white mineral grains. Students often use this salt and pepper appearance as a clue to the identification of diorite. In the dimension stone industry, diorite is sold as a  granite .. The dimension stone industry uses the name granite for any rock with visible, interlocking grains of feldspar. This simplifies discussions with customers who do not know how to identify igneous and metamorphic rocks
diorite. (petrology). A phaneritic plutonic rock with granular texture composed largely of plagioclase feldspar with smaller amounts of dark-colored minerals; used occasionally as ornamental and building stone. Also known as black granite. magmatic rock of paleotype habit, similar to basalt chemically and in its mineral composition. Diorite is characterized by a relatively small silica content (45-52 percent). Its coloring is dark gray or greenish black.
Diorite is a speckled, coarse-grained igneous rock that is mainly  composed of plagioclase, feldspar and hornblende. It is irregularly  shaped, with randomly-oriented minera … l crystals that form an  interlocking texture. Jake Weatherby. 117,200 Contributions. The reason why all rocks may have large crystals are because of one  of the following reasons:    If the rock is an igneous rock:   Igneous rocks form when magma/l … ava cools. The slower it cools, the  larger the crystals because they have more time to develop.
Diorite is the name used for a group of coarse-grained igneous rocks with a composition between that of granite and basalt. It usually occurs as large intrusions, dikes, and sills within continental crust. In the dimension stone industry, diorite is sold as a  granite .. The dimension stone industry uses the name granite for any rock with visible, interlocking grains of feldspar. This simplifies discussions with customers who do not know how to identify igneous and metamorphic rocks
Several varieties of diorite may be distinguished: quartz, quartzless, hornblende, augite, and biotite. Its color is gray to greenish-gray, and its structure is characterized by clearly defined idiomorphic plagioclase, which distinguishes it from biotite and amphibole. magmatic rock of paleotype habit, similar to basalt chemically and in its mineral composition. Diorite is characterized by a relatively small silica content (45-52 percent). Its coloring is dark gray or greenish black.
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust.
It is produced in volcanic arcs, and in mountain building where it can occur in large volumes as batholiths in the roots of mountains (e.g. Scotland, Norway). Because it is commonly speckled black and white, it is often referred to as salt and pepper rock. Silica (SiO2) content - 52%-63%. Uses-can be used as aggregate, fill etc. in the construction and roading industries (often not ideal for concrete aggregate because of high silica content); cut and polished for dimension stone for building facings, foyers etc.
Diorite. a magmatic rock composed of plagioclase (andesine or oligoclase), hornblende, and more rarely, augite and biotite; sometimes quartz is present. magmatic rock of paleotype habit, similar to basalt chemically and in its mineral composition. Diorite is characterized by a relatively small silica content (45-52 percent). Its coloring is dark gray or greenish black.