When reviewing your report, carefully check the inquiry section, which will show who's viewed your report and when. You can pull your credit report for free once a year from each of the big three credit bureaus (Experian, Equifax and TransUnion) at AnnualCreditReport.com. If you see anything you didn't set in motion (such as a loan or credit card application), make sure to investigate. Once you have that, you can add a victim statement to your credit report.. That allows the credit bureau to remove fraudulent accounts from your report, he says. And you can ask to have creditors contact you before granting any credit in your name.
Initiate a request to check a person's credit using only their name and email address. They can buy their Experian credit report and grant you private access for up to 30 days. All done online, directly through Experian ConnectSM. 
To see what information is held by the credit reference agencies you need to contact them directly and order a copy of your credit report. To order a copy of your personal credit report you should click on the 'Order your report' tab above. No, credit information is private. Only companies who are members of our account sharing scheme can access credit account information. They can only look at your credit account details if you have given them permission. They usually get your permission when you complete their credit application form.
This is why it’s important to check your credit report maintained by Equifax, Experian and TransUnion – the information might be slightly different. The easiest way to do this is to buy a 3-in-1 credit report. Product is active for 30 days once purchased. Bankruptcies, however, can stay on your credit report for up to 10 years. Positive information generally remains on your credit report for a longer period of time and therefore may have a positive impact on your credit score.
You can have a corrected copy of your report sent to anyone who received a copy during the past two years for employment purposes. If an investigation doesn’t resolve your dispute with the credit reporting company, you can ask that a statement of the dispute be included in your file and in future reports. You also can ask the credit reporting company to provide your statement to anyone who received a copy of your report in the recent past. 
You are entitled to one free credit report from each of the three national credit reporting bureaus every year. You can get your free credit report online by visiting annualcreditreport.com. For a small fee, you can also access your credit score. Bankruptcies, however, can stay on your credit report for up to 10 years. Positive information generally remains on your credit report for a longer period of time and therefore may have a positive impact on
If you do spot an error in your credit report, you can file a free dispute with each of the credit reporting bureaus. You can file a dispute with Equifax either online, by phone or by mail. By law, Equifax is required to investigate your dispute within 30 to 45 days and inform you of the outcome. Bankruptcies, however, can stay on your credit report for up to 10 years. Positive information generally remains on your credit report for a longer period of time and therefore may have a positive impact on your credit score.
To get your free credit reports from each of the 3 major credit bureaus you would go to AnnualCreditReport.com and request your free credit reports from each of the 3 credit bureaus. You can also get more information about how to get your free credit report from Experian. If you have been denied credit and meet certain conditions you may also be eligible to receive a discounted or free credit report. Get to know your credit report and let Experian help you understand your report with answers to your questions. Experian is dedicated to help you on your path to financial success.
When you order your $1 Credit Report & FICO ® Score, you will begin your 7‑day trial membership in Experian Credit Tracker SM. If you don't cancel your membership within the 7‑day trial period*, you will be billed $21.95 for each month that you continue your membership. Get to know your credit report and let Experian help you understand your report with answers to your questions. Experian is dedicated to help you on your path to financial success.