The brachioradialis is a superficial, fusiform muscle on the lateral side of the forearm that attaches proximally on the lateral supracondylar ridge of the humerus and distally on the radius, close to its styloid process. Near the elbow, it forms the lateral limit of the cubital fossa, or elbow pit. The brachioradialis is a stronger elbow flexor when the forearm is in a midposition between supination and pronation at the radioulnar joint. When pronated, the brachioradialis is more active during elbow flexion since the biceps brachii is in a mechanical disadvantage.
Medical Definition of BRACHIORADIALIS. : a flexor of the radial side of the forearm arising from the lateral supracondylar ridge of the humerus and inserted into the styloid process of the radius. What made you want to look up brachioradialis?
The brachioradialis muscle is located in the forearm. It enables flexion of the elbow joint. The muscle also assists with pronation and supination of the forearm. These two movements allow the forearm and hand to turn so that the palm faces up or down. The arms are the only part of the body with this ability. The muscle originates on the lateral supracondylar ridge of the humerus. This rough margin is located on the lower end of the humerus. From there, the brachioradialis travels the length of the forearm. It inserts into the distal radius, at the bony projection known as the radial styloid process
In the distal forearm, the radial artery and nerve are sandwiched between the brachioradialis and the deep flexor muscles. 1  Attachments: Originates from the proximal surface of the supraepicondylar ridge of the humerus, and attaches to the distal end of the radius, just before the radial styloid process. Fig 1.0 – The muscles in the superficial layer of the posterior forearm. The brachioradialis is a paradoxical muscle. Its origin and innervation are characteristic of a extensor muscle, but it is actually a flexor at the elbow.
Brachioradialis Tendon Localization and Essential Anatomy. With the patient positioned as pictured to the right, the brachioradialis tendon can be located on the radial side of the forearm about 8 to 10 cm above the wrist. If needed, the patient can sub-maximally contract the brachioradialis to further localize the tendon. 
Brachioradialis. • Brachioradialis flexes the elbow with forearm in neutral (‘thumbs up position’).• Many patients with loss of biceps and brachialis function (through injury to the upper brachial plexus or to the musculocutaneous nerve) will use brachioradialis to flex the elbow. OVERVIEWKey Points:
It is also capable of both pronation and supination, depending on the position of the forearm. It is attached to the distal styloid process of the radius by way of the brachioradialis tendon, and to the lateral supracondylar ridge of the humerus. The brachioradialis is a stronger elbow flexor when the forearm is in a midposition between supination and pronation at the radioulnar joint. When pronated, the brachioradialis is more active during elbow flexion since the biceps brachii is in a mechanical disadvantage.
A muscle with its origin in the lateral supracondylar ridge of the humerus, with insertion to the front of the base of the styloid process of the radius, with nerve supply from the radial nerve, and whose action flexes the forearm. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. The brachioradialis is a muscle that is found in the forearm that flexes the arm at the elbow and is part of a number of daily activities. The muscle is also used to control pronation, which is rotation of the forearm. Bicep curls are an exercise that can strengthen the brachioradialis. Elbow injuries are common in people whop put a lot of strain on the brachioradialis muscle. The brachioradialis is a muscle in the forearm that flexes the arm at the elbow.