Nahla is female given name. Nahla is Arabic origin meaning first drink of water. It is a name commonly used in Middle East. Another variant is Nala. In African languages meaning successful. In Sanskrit meaning stem, hollow reed. Nala is sometimes listed as being a feminine name of African origin and meaning beloved
African-Swahili origin: It is derived literally from the word nala which is of the meaning 'lioness'. The name is used in Tansania, East Africa. See Nala for more information. In addition, Nala is a form of the Arabic and English Nahla. Forms of Nala include the English Nalah, the name Nalea, the name Nalia, the name Nalla, and the name Nallah. Nala is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. In 2012, among the family of girl names directly related to Nala, Nahla was the most popular. 
Nala is the daughter of Sarafina. She is the mate of Simba and the mother of Kiara in The Lion King II: Simba's Pride, however in a book series The Six New Adventures, she is mother to Kopa, who however doesn't exist in the movies, as he was denied by the The Lion King film's makers. Nala is Simba's best friend and wife, the deuteragonist of The Lion King, a supporting character in The Lion King II: Simba's Pride and a minor character in The Lion King 1½ .
Meaning of Nala. African-American name. In African-American, the name Nala means-Tanzanian origin, meaning queen.. Other origins for the name Nala include-African-American, African.The name Nala is most often used as a girl name or female name. African-American Name Meaning-Tanzanian origin, meaning queen.
Simba, meaning lion, is the protagonist of The Lion King, the musical, and several video games. Simba is the son of Mufasa and Sarabi. During the events of The Lion King, he becomes King of Pride Rock. In The Lion King II: Simba's Pride, he and Nala have a daughter, Kiara. 
Nala is the deuteragonist of The Lion King, the secondary tritagonist of The Lion King II: Simba's Pride, and a minor character in The Lion King 1½ . She is the mate of Simba, the mother of Kopa, Kion, and Kiara, and the daughter of Sarafina. 
Latin Meaning: The name Nala is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Nala is: Olive. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. 
Nala. Nala, a character in Hindu mythology, is the king of Nishadha Kingdom, son of Veerasena. Nala is known for his skill with horses and culinary expertise. He marries princess Damayanti, of Vidarbha Kingdom, and their story is told in the Mahabharata. His main weakness is gambling. 