LPN Education. A candidate can start by enrolling in a state approved practical nursing program. A list of approved Georgia practical nursing programs can be found on the Board site (http://sos.ga.gov/index.php/licensing/plb/45).
An Application for Licensure by Endorsement may be completed if an LPN from another state is seeking licensure in the state of Georgia. Other requirements include: 1  A high school diploma or GED Equivalent. 2  Be at least 18 years of age. 3  Completion of a board-approved LPN program or Army 68WM6.
Effective March 31, 2017, all licensed practical nurses will be required to complete twenty (20) hours of continuing education as a condition of licensure renewal. Licensees who renew in March 2017 must satisfy one of the options between April 1, 2015 and March 31, 2017.
Programs approved by other state nursing boards are also acceptable (so long as the requirements are at least as high). Read  Choosing an LPN Program in Georgia  to gain a better understanding of the LPN program education requirements and process.
Georgia offers a number of educational options for those seeking to become Licensed Practical Nurses (LPNs) in the state. Programs are offered in a variety of schools such as vocational high schools, community colleges, and private nursing schools-all teaching the approved curriculum for licensure.
Georgia LPN Licensing Requirements. Attending a Georgia Nursing Board approved program is required to become an LPN in Georgia. These courses are offered through vocational training or community college and generally take a year to complete (2 year programs are also available).
Basic requirements for admission to a LPN program include a high school diploma or GED and possibly nursing assistant certification and the completion of certain classes. Students who complete LPN education programs are able to earn licensure and begin working within 1-2 years.
Required hours for Georgia LPN Certification. In Georgia, the licensed practical nursing education requirement is satisfied by completing a Georgia LPN training program. Typically, LPN certificate courses are offered by a community college or vocational school.
LPN Degree and Education in Georgia. In the state of Georgia, the practical nursing program is the quickest route to becoming a nurse. To earn a degree requires one year of courses as well as hands-on practice. You are required to obtain a CPR card, and pass the NCLEX-PN exam upon completion of the course.
Registered Nurses (RNs) are licensed by the Georgia Board of Nursing. Licensed Practical Nurses (LPNs) are licensed by the Georgia Board of Nursing as well. In each case, the licensing process involves an approved course of study, a national exam, and a background check.