phe•nom•e•non. 1. a fact, occurrence, or circumstance observed or observable: the phenomena of nature. 2. something that is remarkable or extraordinary. 3. a remarkable or exceptional person; prodigy. 4. Philos. a. an appearance or immediate object of awareness in experience. A phenomenon is something that happens or exists and that can be seen or experienced. We are witnessing a very significant phenomenon. Many theories have been put forward to explain this phenomenon. The plural of 'phenomenon' is phenomena, not 'phenomenons'. ...scientific explanations of natural phenomena
Usage Discussion of PHENOMENA. Phenomena has been in occasional use as a singular for more than 400 years and its plural phenomenas for more than 350. Our evidence shows that it is primarily a speech form used by poets, critics, and professors, among others, but one that sometimes turns up in edited prose. 
Learner's definition of PHENOMENON. [count]. 1. plural phenomena /-ənə/ /fɪˈnɑːmənə/ : something (such as an interesting fact or event) that can be observed and studied and that typically is unusual or difficult to understand or explain fully. natural phenomena like lightning and earthquakes. the phenomenon of love. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. plural phenomenons: someone or something that is very impressive or popular especially because of an unusual ability or quality. the greatest literary phenomenon of the decade. He's a football/baseball phenomenon.
Definition. Raynaud's (ray-NOHZ) disease causes some areas of your body — such as your fingers and toes — to feel numb and cold in response to cold temperatures or stress. In Raynaud's disease, smaller arteries that supply blood to your skin narrow, limiting blood circulation to affected areas (vasospasm). 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a phenomenon is something that is observable or an extraordinary thing or person. 1  An example of phenomenon is a lunar eclipse. 2  An example of phenomenon is a classical musical great such as Beethoven.
phenomena. 1  cosmology-The study of the world as a totality of all phenomena in space and time. 2  noology-The science of intuition and reason as phenomena of the mind. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a phenomenon is something that is observable or an extraordinary thing or person. 1  An example of phenomenon is a lunar eclipse.2  An example of phenomenon is a classical musical great such as Beethoven.
fantastic from Late Middle English: A word originally meaning ‘existing only in the imagination, unreal’ that comes from Greek phantastikos ‘vision’. Fantasy (Late Middle English) is of similar origin, as is fancy (Late Middle English), a contracted version of fantasy. Usage. The word phenomenon comes from Greek, and its plural form is phenomena, as in these phenomena are not fully understood. It is a mistake to treat phenomena as if it were a singular form, as in this is a strange phenomena.
Online Language Dictionaries. English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more 