· just now. Report Abuse. mine came back in about 2 hours i think.... all depends on the lab that your test is at and how busy they are. your doctor should have given you an approx time to expect a call back. joey322 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 0. Comment. 
How long do results of urine pregnancy test take with the doctor? Getting a result from your doctor can be anything from 8 hours to 1 week but ususally you should have your results in about two days Ask your doctor if the test is done at the … ir facility or sent out to a reference laboratory. 
In summary, these are usually available within two days of the test taken. Hepatitis tests generally take three days to arrive, and herpes cultures come back about four days after the test. HIV results are available to the patient within 25 minutes of taking the test. Usually about 1-2 weeks. Which test you are having run determines where it goes and how long until you get all your results. Most labs can run a TSH and Total T4 on the spot. Some also do Total T3 and Free T4, but Free T3 usually has to go out and takes about 1 week to 10 days.
4,900. Well I had similar tests to yours a few weeks ago on a Monday I made an appt with my gp on that thursday as I wasnt feeling well so I got the results then which was only four days. You could ring your gps and ask if they are back. + Reply to Thread.
It depends on what tests they are doing, some come back quicker than others-but you should have been told how long you'd have to wait. Call the surgery after 1 week and find out. They will either tell you the results over the phone, or ask you to come in and see the doctor. Normal blood tests results are back in three days. If your Dr's office doesn't call you within one week of having your blood drawn you need to call the office for the results. - · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Report Abuse. It depends on what tests they are doing, some come back quicker than others-but you should have been told how long you'd have to wait. Call the surgery after 1 week and find out. They will either tell you the results over the phone, or ask you to come in and see the doctor. Han · 6 years ago. Normal blood tests results are back in three days. If your Dr's office doesn't call you within one week of having your blood drawn you need to call the office for the results. - · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
You should call your GP to get the results as she referred you for the blood test. They should be back on Monday but you particular practice may have certain days/times you can call for results. I'd call them Monday morning and ask for the results of your blood tests. They'll tell you then when to call back. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If your blood was drawn in a hospital setting, then the results are done the same day. If it was drawn in a clinic, often the following day the results are back. Since it is Sunday where you are, your doctor's office is closed and you will have to wait until Monday to get your results. 
It may depend on the jurisdiction, and what they're testing for (drugs, alcohol), but blood test results are usually returned within 4-6 weeks. I have seen them take upwards of a year, but that was an unusual situation. Answer Applies to: California. 