Species-Glycine max. Soybeans, Glycine max, belong to the domain Eukarya because it has a true nucleus with membrane-bound organelles. It is included in the kingdom Plantae because it contains the characteristic traits of undergoing photosynthesis, having cellulose, and being multicellular. The phylum it belongs to is Magnoliophyta. Members of this phylum are also known as flowering plants, or Angiosperms. Magnoliopsida is the class soybeans belong to. Members of this class are most commonly known as dicotyledons, or dicots. A cotyledon is the embryo within the seed of the plant.
In 1794 the German botanist Moench, deciding that the soybean deserved a genus of its own, called it Soja hispida. Yet Linnaeus' term Dolichos soja was generally the preferred one in Europe and America until the early 1870s, when Moench's Soja hispida became the favorite. Technically these two plants could be considered to be of the same species. In the genus Glycine, the cultivated soybean, G. max, is the only erect plant; all the others twine or climb and all but G. soja are perennials.
Edamame is becoming as popular in the U.S. as it has been in eastern Asia. Soybeans belong to the legume or pea family, with the botanical name Leguminosae or Fabaceae, Legumes belong to the Dicotyledonae class, sometimes called dicots, characterized by two embryonic or seed leaves. It is commonly known as soybean, wild soybean or reseeding soybean. Glycine Willd grows in the same parts of the U.S. and also has the common name of soybean. Seeds of both species are brown. Glycine max (L.) Merr and its cultivar Bobwhite are palatable to humans and are also used as animal fodder.
The Giant panda belongs to: Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Order: Carnivora Family:Ursidae Genus: Ailuropoda Species: melanoleuca. 29 people found this useful. Edit. the phylum is the chordata and the class is the aves and the family is go to is the bird family duh and the species is the cristatus but its scientific name is pavo cristatus … and theres your answer.
HISTORY OF SOYBEAN TAXONOMY AND SCIENTIFIC NAMES. The soybean is a legume; like all other peas and beans, lentils and peanuts, it belongs to the large botanical family Leguminosae (which includes some 500 genera and more than 12,000 species), in the subfamily Papilionideae. Technically these two plants could be considered to be of the same species. In the genus Glycine, the cultivated soybean, G. max, is the only erect plant; all the others twine or climb and all but G. soja are perennials.
Enterobacter is a genus of common Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming bacteria of the family Enterobacteriaceae. 
In fact, scientists give each plant or animal, two names. This naming system was developed by a famous biologist called Carolus Linnaeus. The first name, called the genus, indicates that the plant or animal is closely related to others with the same name. For example, oak trees belong to the genus Quercus. The black oak, white oak and red oak all belong to the genus Quercus. For example, the red oak is sometimes called the northern red oak, sometimes just red oak. In science it is always called Quercus rubra. The genus name always starts with a capital letter and the species name with a lower case letter. For example: Dogs and wolves belong to the genus Canis.
Soybeans fall under the genus Glycine because it belong s to the bean family. Finally, Glycine max is the species, or scientific name, of this organism. It is different from all other species in the Glycine genus because is the only erect plant. A ll other species in this genus either twine or climb. Members of this phylum are also known as flowering plants, or Angiosperms. Magnoliopsida is the class soybeans belong to. Members of this class are most commonly known as dicotyledons, or dicots. A cotyledon is the embryo within the seed of the plant.
A member of the Animalia Kingdom, the mosquito is an organism  belonging to the Arthropoda phylum. More specifically, the mosquito  belongs to the Insecta class, the Diptera … genus, and the Culicidae  species. There are over 350 species of parrot, in over 80 genera, and 3 families, but they are all in the sa … me order:   Chordata Aves Neognathae Psittaciformes   and the families are:   * Nestoridae  * Cacatuidae  * Psittacidae   Most parrots belong to the Psittacidae Family.