Materials 101. Micarta is a trade name that was given to thermoset laminates back in the 1890’s by Westinghouse. Phenolic is another name used to describe this hard, dense material. Phenolic sheets are made by applying heat and pressure to layers of Paper, Cotton (linen or canvas), and Glass fabrics impregnated with synthetic resin.
Micarta industrial laminate sheet is a hard, dense material made by applying heat and pressure to layers of prepreg. These layers of laminations are usually of cellulose paper, cotton fabrics, synthetic yarn fabrics, glass fabrics, or unwoven fabrics. The Micarta trademark is a registered trademark of Industrial Laminates / Norplex, Inc. (dba Norplex-Micarta).
Today Micarta high pressure industrial laminates are produced with a wide variety of resins and fibers. The term has been used generically for most resin impregnated fibre compounds. Common uses of modern high pressure laminates are as electrical insulators, printed circuit board substrates, and knife handles. The Micarta trademark is a registered trademark of Industrial Laminates / Norplex, Inc. (dba Norplex-Micarta).
Homemade Micarta. Micarta is a composite made from layers of various materials and held together by a plastic resin. The materials can be nearly anything, including cloth, paper, fiberglass or carbon fiber. Micarta is actually a brand, but like Kleenex is to facial tissue, nearly all similar examples are referred to by this name. Of course, there are lots of examples of homemade Micarta to be found, and a Google search turned up some really amazing samples. What I wanted to do that is different is to press the layers of cloth into a convoluted shape with a wooden form.
Micarta is a brand name for composites of linen, canvas, paper, fiberglass, carbon fiber or other fabric in a thermosetting plastic. It was originally used in electrical and decorative applications. Micarta was developed by George Westinghouse at least as early as 1910 using phenolic resins invented by Leo Baekeland. The Micarta trademark is a registered trademark of Industrial Laminates / Norplex, Inc. (dba Norplex-Micarta).
Micarta® is a material that is made from phenolic resigns, dyes, and a fill material like paper, linen, or canvas to create a very durable material that is very difficult to damage. If you choose to work with any of the Micarta® materials you should be ready to use some extra abrasives because one of this material's properties is wear resistance ... which you will figure out when you start to grind it.
Micarta is a material, or process, developed in the 1950s by Westinghouse. It is basically layers of material bonded together with resins. Different materials can be used including linen, paper, canvas, and denim. The bonding can be done with a variety of epoxy of polyester resins. 
Micartas aren't' just plastics. Micarta is layers of wood, canvas, linen, or paper bonded together. To produce it, sheets of material are impregnated first with colored dyes, then with a phenolic resin. The sheets are then stacked together to the desired thickness. Linen Micarta, made from linen cloth, makes fine-grained material that can be polished to a glossy surface, or checkered. This was the earliest of the micartas, and usually came only in dark reddish brown, which was used in electronics, for which purpose Westinghouse invented it.
Description. Micarta® is an industrial thermoset phenolic resin laminate used originally in the electrical industry. Popular types of Micarta used in the knife industry are Paper, Linen and Cavans Micarta. Each has their own unique look and the design and purpose of the knife will usually determine the type used. Micarta is very similar to G10 as both are resin laminates, and have good dielectric properties. Micarta isn't quite as strong as G10, but has a somewhat warmer feel to it on a knife handle. There is an inherent softness to the touch where as with G-10 the handles are hard and cold.