Landscape of Italy. The mountains of the Alps and the Dolomites in the north have: snow-covered peaks, icy glaciers and fertile valleys. In their foothills are large and beautiful lakes such as Lake Garda and Lake Como. Further south are huge areas of flat plains and rolling hills, crossed by rivers and streams.
Italy's hilly terrain has led to the creation of numerous independent states. Moreover, agriculture in most of the country has been of a subsistence type and has led to deforestation. Since World War II, many Italians have turned away from rural occupations to engage in the industrial economy.
Most of Italy enjoys a Mediterranean climate; however, that of Sicily is subtropical, and in the Alps there are long and severe winters. The country has great scenic beauty—the majestic Alps in the north, the soft and undulating hills of Umbria and Tuscany, and the romantically rugged landscape of the S Apennines.
The south-eastern Ionian Sea and the Ligurian Sea located in north-west Italy encircle the country from al possible sides and act as a shield of safety for Italy. The Geography of Italy has two mountain ranges, namely the Alps and the Apennines.
Plains cover less than a quarter of the total area of Italy, and the Padan Plain is the most extensive and important in Italy. It occupies more than 44,000 of the 77,000 square kilometres of Italian plain land. It ranges in altitude from sea level up to 550 metres but most of it lies below 100 metres.
Geography of Rome is characterized by the Seven Hills and The Tiber River. Rome city situated on the eastern banks of river Tiber has a geographical position of 41° 54' N and 12° 29' E. Rome lies to the west of the Apennine Mountains that forms the backbone of peninsular Italy. Being close to the Tyrrhenian Sea, Rome experiences a Mediterranean climate.
The landscape in the far south, and on Sardinia and Sicily, is rugged and mountainous. There are three volcanoes in Italy-Mount Vesuvius on the mainland, Mount Etna on Sicily, and the island volcano of Stromboli.