This was the second single from Steppenwolf's first album. The first single, Sookie Sookie, was a flop. Frontman John Kay (from Rolling Stone magazine's Top 500 Songs): Every generation thinks they're born to be wild and they can identify with that song as their anthem.. (thanks, Bertrand-Paris, France).
Born to Be Wild  is a song first performed by the band Steppenwolf, written by Mars Bonfire. When the movie was in production, Born to Be Wild was used simply as a placeholder, since Peter Fonda had wanted Crosby, Stills & Nash to do the movie's soundtrack.
Steppenwolf-Born to be wild 1969. (Soundtrack of the road film 'Easy Rider'). Get your motor runnin'. Head out on the highway. Lookin' for adventure. And whatever comes our way. Yeah Darlin' go make it happen. Take the world in a love embrace. Fire all of your guns at once. 
Born to Be Wild was the band's third single off their 1968 debut album Steppenwolf and became their most successful single, reaching No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles charts. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine placed Born to Be Wild at No. 129 on the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time list. Also in 2004, it finished at #29 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema. When the movie was in production, Born to Be Wild was used simply as a placeholder, since Peter Fonda had wanted Crosby, Stills & Nash to do the movie's soundtrack.
Biography. Though tangentially identified with late-1960s West Coast psychedelia, Steppenwolf's music was uncompromising hard rock, and the term heavy metal was popularized in their first hit, Born to Be Wild.. The Second yielded another massive hit single in Magic Carpet Ride (#3, 1968), and around the same time, Born to Be Wild and The Pusher were featured in the film Easy Rider, more or less solidifying Steppenwolf's enduring identification as a biker band.
Goldy is best known as the original keyboardist for rock group Steppenwolf. Originally a classically trained pianist, he was a pioneer in the early use of the electronic organ (Hammond B3) in heavy metal.(Goldy is a former member of the Born To Be Wild Tour (2013-August 2015). 
Steppenwolf is the first studio album by American rock band Steppenwolf, released in January 1968 on ABC Dunhill Records. The album was a successful debut for the band, featuring the songs  Born to Be Wild , as well as  The Pusher , both of which were used in the 1969 film Easy Rider. Berry Rides Again is a tribute to guitarist Chuck Berry
The album spawned the bands biggest hit, “Born to Be Wild” (written by Mars Bonfire, drummer Jerry Edmonton’s brother) along with the Hoyt Axton penned, “The Pusher” and Don Covay composition, “Sookie Sookie.” “Born to Be Wild” was widely recognized throughout the years as the biker’s anthem. 
+418 other releases. read more. Born to Be Wild is a rock song written by Mars Bonfire (actual name Dennis Eugene McCrohan, born 21 April 1943 in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada; name changed to Dennis Edmonton in the early 1960s); it was made famous by the Canadian rock band, Steppenwolf. 
Watch for the upcoming release of “Born To Be Wild Revisited 2015″ with some very special guest artists performing on the song. The band consists of former John Kay and Steppenwolf member Danny Ironstone who also played with, Anita Baker, and The Pointer Sisters. 