Cool down is also as important as a warm-up. After aheavy work-out, it is important to spend 5-10 minutes in a cooldown stage. A cool down after the workout is important topromote an effective recovery from physical activity. Some ofthe benefits of a cool down are listed below: 1. Another reason is warming up helps prevents injuries. Muscleelasticity and the flexibility of the tendons and ligaments areincreased. Synovial fluid, which lubricates the joints, isreleased during easy activity. In general, warm up prepares thebody for the increased demand of intense exercise.
A warm-up is important for many reasons. Some of these reasons include: - Facilitates transition from rest to exercise-Stretches postural muscles-Augments blood flow-Ele … vates body temperature-Allows body to adjust to changing physiologic, biomechanical and bioenergetic demands placed on it during conditioning phase. A warm-up helps your body prepare for any physical activity. Without a warm-up, your muscles will be cold and stiff, the oxygen won't be flowing to your muscles and joints and you will not perform the activity well. Also, when you do a warm up your recovery from exercising will be more comfortable and shorter.
Warming up has many physical and mental benefits. Stretching and cooling down go hand-in-hand mostly because they come after a workout, whereas a warm up usually precedes a workout. Their main benefit is increasing recovery, and these activities also add to the overall health of the muscles. If you warm up and stretch you will be fine and you will get the benefits. Think about it, it will take only 10 minutes of your time, why not do it and see what happens. Chances are you will notice a positive change. None of my clients have ever said that they feel worse and their performance has gone down.
‘We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit’ – Aristotle. Novices and experts alike are all, or at least should be, aware of the vital physiological benefits of a warm up. They are crucial to performance by preparing the body for action, whilst minimizing the risk of injury. 
Warm up and warm down. The aim of a warm up is to gradually get your whole body prepared for work. An effective warm up will: 1  Prevent injury to muscles, tendons, and ligaments. 2  Prepare the body for specific exercises [Exercise: Physical activity to improve health and fitness.] . 
- Reduces potential for after exercise soreness. A warm-up helps your body prepare for any physical activity. Without a warm-up, your muscles will be cold and stiff, the oxygen won't be flowing to your muscles and joints and you will not perform the activity well. Also, when you do a warm up your recovery from exercising will be more comfortable and shorter.
A warm up generally consists of a gradual increase in intensity in physical activity (a pulse raiser), joint mobility exercise, and stretching, followed by the activity. Warming up brings the body to a condition at which it safely responds to nerve signals for quick and efficient action. 
The warm-up takes place before training or a game and cooling down (warming-down) immediately after. Both are of paramount importance in producing and maintaining high performance levels. The aim of warming-up is to allow players to gradually adapt and prepare themselves both physically and mentally for exercise. 
For your next exercise routine, be sure to get all the benefits of warming up and cooling down by make time for these two critical steps of your workout. In addition to the many benefits of warming up, see why you also need to cool down after exercise. To get the most benefit of warming up be sure to warm up your major muscles like the hips, thighs, glutes, calves, chest and shoulders. You can target all of these muscles by marching in place and swinging your arms back and forth. To make your warm up exercise a bit more varied add some grapevines or jump roping