This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. 36 people found this useful. This food will keep for about 4 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. + 11 others found this useful.
This food will last for a few days. 4 days in the refrigerator is as long as you want to store this food here. Place the food in an air tight container or freezer bags. Then y … ou can transfer it to the freezer if more storage time is needed. 4 people found this useful. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
You should not store anything like that in the fridge for longer than 3-4 days. However, you can freeze some, and then it would be good for up to a year. emily_brown18 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. While you can store it for about a week, personally I wouldn't eat any leftovers after about 2 days in the fridge. If you freeze it, it with store for a few months. Divided By Zero
Depends on the fridge temp. Reheat it to a boil every 4 days to kill the germs and you can keep it going for weeks.     Another Answer   Do not plan to keep turke … y soup for weeks in the fridge. If you are not going to use it up within 2 or 3 days, freeze it. This food will keep for about 4 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. + 11 others found this useful.
A cream based soup won't last nearly as long, I usually only keep it for 2 days and a clear broth soup I keep for 3 or 4. If you are afraid you won't use it before it's bad, freeze it! Smell the soup before you eat it, that is always a good way to tell if something is bad or not. Lilly · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
By John Gregerson. Assuming it is properly packaged, leftover soup will last 3-4 days. Never remove a large pot of soup from the stove and place it directly in the refrigerator. Large masses of food can take hours--even days--to chill properly. A slowly cooling medium provides an ideal environment for bacterial growth. 
GRAVY & BROTH: Cooked gravy and broth will stay fresh and safe to eat for 1-2 days in your refrigerator. Freeze it into ice cube trays and you’ll have a handy burst of flavor to add to your next meal. PASTA: Cooked pasta keeps for 3-5 days in the refrigerator, although pasta in soups will swell after the first day. 
Report Abuse. depends on the soup if it's good vegetable soup, not long at all if it's not good soup it will hang around that long it will grow a fur coat because it's cold. Source(s): (no longer than 72 hours). obanpussyginger · 7 years ago