Solids are generally held together by ionic or strong covalent bonding, and the attractive forces between the atoms, ions, or molecules in solids are very strong. In fact, these forces are so strong that particles in a solid are held in fixed positions and have very little freedom of movement.
Some common characteristics of ionic solids are as follows: They are hard, brittle and have low volatility. They have high melting points. They are poor conductors of electricity in solid state, however they become good conductors of electricity in molten state or in dissolved state.
The characteristics are:   1) High melting point and boiling point; . Strong electrostatic force of attraction between the oppositely charged ions, hence, a large amount of … energy is required to break them.   2 Ionic compound do not conduct electricity in the solid state.
The characteristics are: 1) High melting point and boiling point; . Strong electrostatic force of attraction between the oppositely charged ions, hence, a large amount of energy is required to break them. 2 Ionic compound do not conduct electricity in the solid state.
1 Just as ionic compounds have high melting and boiling points, they usually have enthalpies of fusion and vaporization that may be 10 to 100 times higher than those of most molecular compounds. 2  The enthalpy of fusion is the heat required melt a single mole of a solid under constant pressure.
IONIC STRUCTURES This page explains the relationship between the arrangement of the ions in a typical ionic solid like sodium chloride and its physical properties-melting point, boiling point, brittleness, solubility and electrical behaviour.
Ionic solids— Made up of positive and negative ions and held together by electrostatic attractions. They’re characterized by very high melting points and brittleness and are poor conductors in the solid state. An example of an ionic solid is table salt, NaCl.
Here are the properties shared by the ionic compounds. Notice that the properties of ionic compounds relate to how strongly the positive and negative ions attract each other in an ionic bond. 1  Ionic compounds form crystals. 2  Ionic compounds form crystal lattices rather than amorphous solids.