After reading a couple of forums on how to speed it up (which basically only increased the speed of the emulator slightly)...I've figured out a way, my own way, how to make it run faster...no lag in the music or nuthin. Here's a few more things I learnt from a youtube video I saw. You can add more speed to your desmume by downloading game booster 2 to temporarily stop programs in the background, don't worry you can switch it back and forth.
Instructions shown in the video (step by step): 1. Download DeSmuME 0.9.9 from desmume.org (the links to the emulators are also above). 2. The file should be a .zip file. If you don't have an archiving program (WinRAR, WinZIP, 7zip, ect.), you will not be able to open this type of file (same goes for .rar, .7zip, ect.). 9. In the Config tab, you CAN go to Firmware Settings and set your personal preferences (honestly, I have no idea what it is for). 10. In the Config tab, you CAN go to Microphone Settings and change something if you know what it's all about. However, the default settings are fine to me. 11
HOW TO SPEED UP DESMUME EMULATOR. Download from this website: http://coolrom.com/emulators/nds/84/D... HOW TO SPEED UP DESMUME EMULATOR is a VERY useful video tutorial that includes what I found to be the fastest settings for the popular DS emulator! SUBSCRIBE to The4thGenGamer: http://goo.gl/r0c2Uv
4. Run the emulator inside the newly made folder. 5. Open the Config tab, then go to Frame Skip and uncheck Limit framerate. After that, come back to Frame Skip and set it from 0 (never skip) to 4 (you can experiment with the numbers), then uncheck Auto-minimize skipping. 9. In the Config tab, you CAN go to Firmware Settings and set your personal preferences (honestly, I have no idea what it is for). 10. In the Config tab, you CAN go to Microphone Settings and change something if you know what it's all about. However, the default settings are fine to me. 11
What’s new in this version: The program parameters (variables list, expression How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8, angle unit, plot settings, etc.) are permanently saved.The device screen is kept on during the How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8 session.Help: updated. This free Firefox extension promises to let you How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8 with users who are visiting the same Web site, but we How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8 ourselves alone most of the time. This entry was posted in ALL. Bookmark the permalink.
Be aware though that to run something at 1000% speed, your computer needs to be able to emulate it ten times faster than what it's limited to. Which it won't. You'll likely get anything between 100% and 120%. 
It sped up the Pokemon/Wild Battle on my emulator. Here's a few more things I learnt from a youtube video I saw. You can add more speed to your desmume by downloading game booster 2 to temporarily stop programs in the background, don't worry you can switch it back and forth.
How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8 for Mac downloaded quickly, but installing it required a How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8 system restart, which was a disappointment. This free Firefox extension promises to let you How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8 with users who are visiting the same Web site, but we How To Speed Up Desmume Emulator 0.9.8 ourselves alone most of the time. This entry was posted in ALL. Bookmark the permalink.