According to Eycleshymer and Schoemaker, the superior extremity of the right kidney varies in position from the middle of the tenth thoracic vertebra to the middle of the first lumbar vertebra. The average position is at the level of the upper third of the twelfth thoracic vertebra.
Merkel, Spalteholtz, Corning, and Piersol found the highest point of the left kidney at the level of the eleventh thoracic vertebra. Joessel places it at the upper border of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, and Cunningham places it at the level of the tenth thoracic spine.
They form the region of the spinal column inferior to the cervical vertebrae of the neck and superior to the lumbar vertebrae of the lower back.... Click to read more below. The thoracic vertebrae are a group of twelve small bones that form the vertebral spine in the upper trunk. Thoracic vertebrae are unique among the bones of the spine in that they are the only vertebrae that support ribs and have overlapping spinous processes.
The Kidneys are a pair of organs located bilaterallyin the upper lumber region below the 12th thoracic vertebrae. The opinions expressed here are solely those of the User. The opinions expressed here are solely those of the User.User-generated content areas are not reviewed by a WebMD physician.
The T10 vertebra can be found toward the bottom of the thoracic (middle) region of the spine, in the lower region of the rib cage. Pain that originates above or below the T10 vertebra will most likely cause discomfort around the rib cage, up and down the back and around the area of the kidneys.
A. The kidneys are located on either side of the body underneath the diaphragm near the lower back. Each kidney is connected to the bladder in the pelvis by ureters (long tube-like structures) that drain the urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Urine stored in the bladder is excreted from the body through the urethra.
Because of the location of the liver, thoracic kidney on the right side is much less common than thoracic kidney on the left side. Thoracic kidney is twice as common in men as in women. Typically, the presence of a thoracic kidney is asymptomatic and requires no intervention, as in this case. Yoshitaka Doi, M.D., Ph.D.