Definition of PELLICLE. : a thin skin or film: as a: an outer membrane of some protozoans (as euglenoids or paramecia) b: a film that reflects a part of the light falling upon it and transmits the rest and that is used for dividing a beam of light (as in a photographic device). 
1 Pellicle mirror, a thin plastic membrane which may be used as a beam splitter or protective cover in optical systems. 2  Pellicle (dental) , the thin layer of salivary glycoproteins deposited on the teeth of many species through normal biologic processes. 1 Pellicle, the protective cover which can be applied to a photomask used in semiconductor device fabrication.
Pellicle History The term pellicle is used to mean film, thin film, or membrane.. Beginning in the 1960s, thin film stretched on a metal frame, also known as a pellicle, was used as a beam splitter for optical instruments. The pellicle is used primarily for two purposes-to increase die yield and reduce overall p handling, i.e. cleaning and inspection. It is a thin film stretched on a frame used to protect a photomask from particle contamination.
1 Pellicle (dental) , the thin layer of salivary glycoproteins deposited on the teeth of many species through normal biologic processes. 2  Pellicle, the protective cover which can be applied to a photomask used in semiconductor device fabrication. 1 Pellicle, the protective cover which can be applied to a photomask used in semiconductor device fabrication.
Pellicle may refer to: 1  Pellicle (biology) , a thin layer supporting the cell membrane in various protozoa. 2  Pellicle mirror, a thin plastic membrane which may be used as a beam splitter or protective cover in optical systems. 1 Pellicle, the protective cover which can be applied to a photomask used in semiconductor device fabrication.
A pellicle is a skin or coating of proteins on the surface of meat, fish or poultry, which allow smoke to better adhere the surface of the meat during the smoking process. 
1 Pellicle (biology) , a thin layer supporting the cell membrane in various protozoa. 2  Pellicle mirror, a thin plastic membrane which may be used as a beam splitter or protective cover in optical systems. 1 Pellicle, the protective cover which can be applied to a photomask used in semiconductor device fabrication.
Just sign up or login and start editing now! A pellicle is a lumpy, slimy white film that is formed by some strains of wild yeast, notably brettanomyces, during fermentation. A film on your beer in the fermenter or the bottle almost always indicates an infection, unless you have intentionally added brettanomyces to your beer. 
A pellicle is a type of biofilm which appears on the surface of beer (the classification of pellicles as a type of biofilm is up for debate. See Scientific Terminology). It consists of an aggregation of cells, proteins, and polymers. 