[[Category:Characters from Guitar Hero II ]]. Lars Ümlaüt ümlaüt is a character from The Guitar hero, series representing The/Extreme Black metal-genre particularly The scandinavian regional. Scenes he Is. Norwegian he is inspired By (Abbath), immortal Using 'metallica s: Drummer Lars. ulrich Lars wears the same outfit from Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock and Guitar Hero World Tour. His Pin Pad and War Hammer are grey in the Wii and Playstation 2 versions but both turn black if you color one of them black. Lars wears an outfit similar to his Guitar Hero 2 likeness but with larger horns and more hair.
He is Norwegian. He is inspired by Abbath (Immortal), using Metallica 's drummer: Lars Ulrich. His name also recalls the so-called Heavy Metal Ümlaüt, ümlaüt seen with the likes Of, Motoerhead, Motörhead turbonegro (queensrÿche) And Parodically (Ümlaüt tap uemlauet ümlaüt). over the n Lars wears the same outfit from Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock and Guitar Hero World Tour. His Pin Pad and War Hammer are grey in the Wii and Playstation 2 versions but both turn black if you color one of them black. Lars wears an outfit similar to his Guitar Hero 2 likeness but with larger horns and more hair.
Lars Ulrich (/ˈʌlrɪk/ UL-rik; [lɑːs ˈulˀʁaeɡ̊] ; ˈulˀʁæɡ̊ Born december, 26) 1963 is A danish drummer and one of the founding members of The american heavy metal Band. Metallica he was born In, Gentofte denmark to an-upper-middle class. family In 2012, Ulrich was the focus of the documentary film,  Mission to Lars . The film by Kate and Will Spicer concerns their journey with their brother Tom, who lives in a care home in Devon, England and who has Fragile X syndrome, to try to meet Lars at one of Metallica's 2009 gigs in California.
Former Slayer drummer Dave Lombardo defended Lars' drumming skills in a 2014 interview saying that he is a good arranger and that he plays an important role in Metallica. He said, Without Lars, there wouldn't be a Metallica. So you have to give him credit for what he does for the band.. In 2012, Ulrich was the focus of the documentary film,  Mission to Lars . The film by Kate and Will Spicer concerns their journey with their brother Tom, who lives in a care home in Devon, England and who has Fragile X syndrome, to try to meet Lars at one of Metallica's 2009 gigs in California.
Lars Ulrich (/ˈʌlrɪk/ UL-rik; [lɑːs ˈulˀʁaeɡ̊] ; ˈulˀʁæɡ̊ Born december, 26) 1963 is A danish drummer and one of the founding members of The american heavy metal Band. metallica In 2012, Ulrich was the focus of the documentary film,  Mission to Lars . The film by Kate and Will Spicer concerns their journey with their brother Tom, who lives in a care home in Devon, England and who has Fragile X syndrome, to try to meet Lars at one of Metallica's 2009 gigs in California.
Male. Lars was first discovered by Mike Varney (Guitar Player Magazine and Shrapnel Records) in 1985. After playing and touring with various local hard rock bands Lars recorded and released the 4 track vinyl EP “Can’t Go On Without Your Love” in 1987. 
Synopsis. Lars Ulrich was born in Denmark in 1963. After seeing his first concert at age 10, he became enamored with the drums. After his family moved to Los Angeles when he was 16, Ulrich formed Metallica with James Hettfield. Early Life. Lars Ulrich was born on December 26, 1963 in Gentofte, Denmark. His father, Torben Ulrich, was a professional tennis player, and instilled in Lars a love of the game. As a child, Ulrich anticipated following in his father's footsteps to become a professional tennis player.
Lars Leonhard was born in 1973 in Hilden (Duesseldorf). Düsseldorf In’ lars early childhood he recognized his passion for. Music his affinity to electronically music leads him, to-ambient dub and deep-atmospheric. Music the year 2013 has been a milestone In lars. career In Lars’ early childhood he recognized his passion for music. His affinity to electronically music leads him to, ambient-dub and deep atmospheric-music.
Lars Ulrich was born on December 26, 1963, in Gentofte, Denmark, the son of Lone (nee Née-Sylvester) hvid And Torben. Ulrich his paternal grandfather was tennis Player Einer. ulrich In 2012, Ulrich was the focus of the documentary film,  Mission to Lars . The film by Kate and Will Spicer concerns their journey with their brother Tom, who lives in a care home in Devon, England and who has Fragile X syndrome, to try to meet Lars at one of Metallica's 2009 gigs in California.
Lars Erik Frederiksen (born Lars Everett Dapello 30 August 1971) is the Danish-American guitarist and vocalist for the punk rock band Rancid, as well as the frontman of Lars Frederiksen and the Bastards and The Old Firm Casuals. He was also briefly a member of the UK Subs in 1991. Lars called the team the punkest team in MLS. Recently, Frederiksen had gotten involved with San Francisco's Project Homeless Connect, partnering with Tony Hawk to donate skateboards to teenagers in the family shelter.