Proteolytic enzymes (proteases) help you digest the proteins in food. Although your body produces these enzymes in the pancreas, certain foods also contain proteolytic enzymes. Papaya and pineapple are two of the richest plant sources, as attested by their traditional use as natural tenderizers for meat. Another theory popular in certain alternative medicine circles suggests that proteolytic enzymes can aid rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, lupus, and other autoimmune diseases. Supposedly, these diseases are made worse when whole proteins from foods leak into the blood and cause immune reactions.
(1). Proteolytic enzymes or protease can be used, in part, to digest complete proteins that are in meat. Yet, outside of meals, they have been harnessed for a multitude of healing processes, sometimes exclusively and sometimes in conjunction with other therapies. 
A protease (also called peptidase or proteinase) is any enzyme that performs proteolysis, that is, begins protein catabolism by hydrolysis of the peptide bonds that link amino acids together in a polypeptide chain. Proteases have evolved multiple times, and different classes of protease can perform the same reaction by completely different catalytic mechanisms. Proteases can be found in animals, plants, bacteria, archaea and viruses.
Proteolytic enzymes can also be absorbed into the body whole and may help reduce inflammation and pain; 2,44-46 however, the evidence is inconsistent. Several studies found that proteolytic enzymes might be helpful for neck pain, osteoarthritis, and post-herpetic neuralgia (an aftereffect of shingles). Another theory popular in certain alternative medicine circles suggests that proteolytic enzymes can aid rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, lupus, and other autoimmune diseases. Supposedly, these diseases are made worse when whole proteins from foods leak into the blood and cause immune reactions.
By Steven Hefferon, CMT, PTA, CPRS. Proteolytic enzymes, also referred to as proteases, are enzymes that break down proteins into their smallest elements. If this breakdown of proteins happens in your gut, we call the enzymes digestive, because they help us digest our food. Systemic proteolytic enzymes, however, have a completely different purpose, so please don't confuse the two. When taken on an empty stomach, proteolytic enzymes will pass through the stomach or intestine lining and enter the circulatory system. This is why they are called systemic - once they enter the circulatory system, they circulate throughout the body
Broad Spectrum Proteolytic Enzyme Formulation. Best Proteolytic Enzymes is a potent formulation containing a broad spectrum of vegetarian proteolytic enzymes. Proteolytic enzymes function in the body to digest and break down proteins into their amino acid components. Studies show that various proteolytic enzymes are absorbed through the gut wall into circulation. Enzymes are required to facilitate chemical reactions throughout the body
The most important thing that systemic proteolytic enzymes do is to break down excess fibrin in your circulatory system and in other connective tissue, such as your muscles. These enzymes bring nutrients and oxygen-rich blood that remove the metabolic waste produced by inflammation and excess fibrin. Systemic proteolytic enzymes, however, have a completely different purpose, so please don't confuse the two. When taken on an empty stomach, proteolytic enzymes will pass through the stomach or intestine lining and enter the circulatory system. This is why they are called systemic - once they enter the circulatory system, they circulate throughout the body
Doctor's Best Proteolytic Enzymes is a potent formulation delivering a broad spectrum of vegetarian proteolytic enzymes. Proteolytic enzymes function in the body to digest and break down proteins into their amino acid components. Studies show that various proteolytic enzymes are absorbed through the gut wall into circulation. Enzymes are required to facilitate chemical reactions throughout the body. Supplementing with proteolytic enzymes may augment the normal metabolic functions of enzymes present in the body.