When a friend's name disappears from one of your Chat availability lists, it's still possible to send a message. You won't be chatting in real-time, so you'll need to wait for them to receive the message and respond. Click the name of the friend on your list and click the Message button. You can see a list of your available friends in two spots. The Friends On Chat list appears in the left column of your homepage, and the Chat box is in the lower-right corner of all pages.
Hiding and revealing your Facebook presence is easy, requiring only a few clicks. Sign in to your Facebook account and click the Chat box in the lower-right corner of any page. Click Options and select Go Offline to hide your name from Friends On Chat lists. You can see a list of your available friends in two spots. The Friends On Chat list appears in the left column of your homepage, and the Chat box is in the lower-right corner of all pages.
Friends. Chat & Messages. One of my friends on favorite list of chat disappeared so suddenly. I can still see what he is sharing/posting up to date, but he doesn't appear on chat anymore. Why is that? by Jake Kim. 28 votes · 2 followers. 1  Good Question.
1 58% - The friends sidebar on facebook disappeared? 2  33% - I want reactive my fb chat i disappeared from one of my fb friend and she disappeared on mine the names and the green light are not there so please? 3  33% - What does it mean when there is a box next to a friend`s name on the chat sidebar? 1 25% - How i can delete in my fb cxhat sidebar the people i dont know.it was my relatives friend but it comes to my fb chat in the box,help? 2  43% - My friend is on the facebook sidebar but i don`t see any symbol next to his name why? 3  39% - Why the seem by  message in facebook chat disappeared from only one friend?
The list of friends in your sidebar is based on who you’ve interacted with most frequently or recently on Facebook. Since it updates dynamically, you can’t manually add friends to the list.The list shows both friends who are available to chat and friends who aren’t. Clicking on a friend’s name opens a chat window. The friends that show up at the top of your sidebar are people you’ve interacted with frequently or recently on Facebook. You can't add friends to this part, though it updates dynamically as the people you interact with change. More Friends shows you the rest of your friends who are on chat.
Chat & Messages. I have noticed this quite often. I will see a friend in the sidebar, then they will disappear. And, then reappear. Has anyone else noticed this? What does this mean/why does it happen? Thanks. 
Chat & Messages. One of my friends on favorite list of chat disappeared so suddenly. I can still see what he is sharing/posting up to date, but he doesn't appear on chat anymore. Why is that? by Jake Kim. 30 Votes · 12 Followers. 1  Good Question
Friends On Chat. You can see a list of your available friends in two spots. The Friends On Chat list appears in the left column of your homepage, and the Chat box is in the lower-right corner of all pages. These lists, which are continuously updated in real-time, show status symbols next to the names indicating when friends are logged in and available, logged in and inactive or unavailable
Ask a Question. Chat & Messages. One of my friends on favorite list of chat disappeared so suddenly. I can still see what he is sharing/posting up to date, but he doesn't appear on chat anymore. Why is that? by Jake Kim. 30 votes · 12 followers.