CBD and THC levels tend to vary between different strains and varieties of cannabis. By using selective breeding techniques, we have managed to create varieties with high levels of CBD and THC. CBD does not cause a high, unlike THC. The reason why CBD is non-psychoactive is due to its lack of affinity for CB1 receptors. CB1 receptors are found in high concentrations in the brain, and are the pathways responsible for the psychoactive effects of THC. But cannabis with both CBD & THC is still psychoactive, just at a different level. Both CBD and THC have been found to present no risk of lethal overdose. However, to reduce potential side effects, medical users may be better off using cannabis strains with higher levels of CBD.
CBD is one of over 60+ compounds found in cannabis that belong to a class of molecules called cannabinoids. Of these compounds, CBD and THC are usually present in the highest concentrations, and are therefore the most recognized and studied. But cannabis with both CBD & THC is still psychoactive, just at a different level. Both CBD and THC have been found to present no risk of lethal overdose. However, to reduce potential side effects, medical users may be better off using cannabis strains with higher levels of CBD.
1. CBD is a key ingredient in cannabis. CBD is one of over 60 compounds found in cannabis that belong to a class of molecules called cannabinoids. Of these compounds, CBD and THC are usually present in the highest concentrations, and are therefore the most recognized and studied. CBD and THC levels tend to vary among different plants. Unlike THC, CBD does not cause a high. While this makes CBD a poor choice for recreational users, it gives the chemical a significant advantage as a medicine, since health professionals prefer treatments with minimal side effects. CBD is non-psychoactive because it does not act on the same pathways as THC.
CBD is a cannabinoid with medical potential that is bred from cannabis when the goal is high THC content. Because CBD is not psychoactive, people who dislike the effects of currently available marijuana, or who are seeking medical benefit without feeling stoned, might like high-CBD strains bred low in THC. THC, is the main psychoactive substance found in the Cannabis plant. Tetrahydrocannabinol, usually refers to the naturally existing isomer of delta-9-THC. THC has an extremely low toxicity and the amount that can enter the body through the consumption of cannabis plants poses no threat of death.
Cannabidiol (CBD) and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) are the two main ingredients in the marijuana plant. Both CBD and THC belong to a unique class of compounds known as cannabinoids. While many strains of marijuana are known for having abundant levels of THC, high-CBD strains are less common. But CBD has recently started to draw attention from the medical community, who seem to prefer CBD over THC. THC is known to cause some people to feel anxious or paranoid. But CBD is believed to have the opposite effect. In fact, studies show that CBD works to counteract the anxiety caused by ingesting THC. A number of studies also suggest that CBD can reduce anxiety when administered on its own.
What is CBD (Cannabidiol). CBD Hemp Oil is an oil extracted from Industrial Hemp plants (stalks and seeds). The plants used are specially bred to contain high concentrations of the naturally occurring Cannabinoid Cannabidiol (CBD). Cannabidiol (CBD) is one of at least 85 cannabinoids found in cannabis. It is a major constituent of the plant, second to tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and represents up to 40% in its extracts. 
CBD, or cannabidiol, is quickly changing the debate surrounding the use of marijuana as a medicine. Most people have heard of a chemical called THC, which is the ingredient in marijuana that gets users high. Unlike THC, CBD does not cause a high. While this makes CBD a poor choice for recreational users, it gives the chemical a significant advantage as a medicine, since health professionals prefer treatments with minimal side effects. CBD is non-psychoactive because it does not act on the same pathways as THC.
Cannabidiol (CBD) is one of at least 85 active cannabinoids identified in cannabis. It is a major phytocannabinoid, accounting for up to 40% of the plant's extract. Raphael Mechoulam, a cannabinoid researcher, said ...Avidekel is thought to be the first CBD-enriched cannabis plant with no THC to have been developed in Israel. In February 2014, a patent application was filed for a cannabis plant named 'avidekel'.
CBD, or Cannabidiol is a chemical compound found in the Cannabis plant. Unlike THC, CBD does not produce any psychoactive effects. Instead, it is part of the Cannabis plant that holds the highest medicinal value. Research has found it to be effective for treating inflammation, pain, anxiety and spasms associated with multiple sclerosis.
Cannabidiol —CBD—is a cannabis compound that has significant medical benefits, but does not make people feel “stoned” and can actually counteract the psychoactivity of THC. The fact that CBD-rich cannabis is non-psychoactive or less psychoactive than THC-dominant strains makes it an appealing option for patients looking for relief from inflammation, pain, anxiety, psychosis, seizures, spasms, and other conditions without disconcerting feelings of lethargy or dysphoria.