Here's why that matters: Your glutes are one of your body's largest and most powerful muscles. Yet sitting for hours a day at your job can cause these muscles to forget how to fire. That makes you weaker in nearly every lower body exercise. What's more, weak glutes can cause your pelvis to tilt forward. However, by using the hip raise, you can activate your glutes once again, and build more muscle all over. Plus, because your glutes are such a big muscle group, they're also one of your body's top calorie burners. The upshot: The hip raise can ultimately help you burn more fat, too.
The shape of the buttocks is defined by muscles known as the glutes. That's the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, and gluteus minimus, as well as the fat that lies over them. Walking, running, and climbing all work the glutes. Strength training that targets these muscles can help give you a tighter, more rounded look. Adding a few butt-busting moves to your routine may be enough to see a change. This classic is a super workout for the glutes, as well as the hamstrings and hips. Form: Begin on your back with your knees bent, feet hip-width apart. Slowly peel your spine off the floor from the tailbone. Tighten the glutes and hamstrings as you do this.
Tips: Grabbing the top of a chair back to brace yourself, stand up straight, lift one leg behind you while keeping the other leg straight. Bring the raised leg back to the floor and raise it again for 10 repetitions. Then do the same for the other leg. Concentrate on flexing the glutes to that you feel them do the work. Tips: While on the floor on all fours, extend one leg and with the foot cocked to a point that places it in line with the head. Then raise it to a 45-degree angle with the foot elevated above the head. The key to maximum results is to concentrate on contracting the glutes throughout the full range of motion.
The glutes are, essentially, your butt muscles. They're the strongest muscles in your body and your power center. They're especially important for athletes, because hip extension is a primary source of explosion in many sports, including golf. In a basic sense, glute activation (and activation of any muscle in your body) is when your brain's nervous system sends electrical signals to your muscles to fire. The stronger the signal, the stronger the muscle contraction.
The gluteus maximus is a tensor of the fascia lata, and by its connection with the iliotibial band steadies the femur on the articular surfaces of the tibia during standing, when the extensor muscles are relaxed. The lower part of the muscle also acts as an adductor and external rotator of the limb. Three bursae are usually found in relation with the deep surface of this muscle: 1  One of these, of large size, separates it from the greater trochanter; 2  a second, (often missing), is situated on the tuberosity of the ischium; 3  a third is found between the tendon of the muscle and that of the vastus lateralis.
The gluteus maximus is the largest of the gluteal muscles and one of the strongest muscles in the human body. It inserts at the iliotibial band and the gluteal tuberosity of the femur. Its action is to extend and to laterally rotate the hip, and also to extend the trunk. Muscles of the gluteal and posterior femoral regions. Gluteus minimus and the origins and insertions of medius and maximus labeled. The gluteal muscles are a group of three muscles which make up the buttocks: the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius and gluteus minimus. The three muscles originate from the ilium and sacrum and insert on the femur
In case you weren't aware, your butt is pretty amazing. It helps your body stay upright, enables you to power through workouts, and looks fantastic when squeezed into a pair of skinny jeans, just sayin'. That's why it's so important for you to know how to get the most out of your glutes, the muscles in your posterior. 
The gluteus maximus (also known collectively with the gluteus medius and minimus, as the gluteal muscles, and sometimes referred to informally as the 'glutes') is the largest and most superficial of the three gluteal muscles. Three bursae are usually found in relation with the deep surface of this muscle: 1  One of these, of large size, separates it from the greater trochanter; 2  a second, (often missing), is situated on the tuberosity of the ischium; 3  a third is found between the tendon of the muscle and that of the vastus lateralis.