Block Island is special in so many ways. It is unlike anywhere you have ever visited. Whether you enjoy a laid-back beach day, a vigorous bike ride, an adventure in a kayak or a paddleboard lesson, our little island is worth exploring. What many people don't realize is just how easy it is to get here. Only 12 miles off the Rhode Island coast, we are a 15-minute plane ride from Westerly, Rhode Island; a half hour on the high speed ferry from Point Judith, Rhode Island; or just over an hour on the ferry from New London, Connecticut
The Rhode Island beaches on Block Island are easy to find: just turn right when you get off the ferry and walk toward ﻿ Crescent Beach ﻿, the 2.5-mile stretch of sand that’s visible as you approach the island. One of only two Block Island beaches with lifeguards (Ballard’s is the other one). Amenities include showers, changing rooms, food and beach equipment rentals. Easy to get to along Corn Neck Road, or by walking along Crescent Beach from town.
Block Island is part of the State of Rhode Island about 13 miles from the coast in the Atlantic ocean. With a population of under 1500 Block Island is small-about 5 miles with one town, New Shoreman. Getting around by bicycle or moped is of the best ways to see the island. 
Rhode Island was either named for the Isle of Rhodes (in the Mediterranean Sea) or for its red clay (the Dutch explorer Adriaen Block may have named it Roodt Eylandt meani … ng Red Island in Dutch). 1 It is the only ferry service that operates year-round to Block Island, Rhode Island.…. 2  Block Island Photography and Tourist Attractions Block Island is just off the coast of the State of
A project of Deepwater Wind, Block Island Wind Farm will be located about 2.5 nautical miles southeast of Block Island, becoming the first offshore wind farm in the United States. The thirty-megawatt five-turbine demonstration project is expected to produce more than 125,000 megawatt hours annually. The Block Island Wind Farm was conceived as a larger project extending into neighboring Massachusetts to build a $1.5-billion, 385-megawatt wind farm in federal waters.
17 Miles of Beaches. Block Island features 17 miles of pristine beaches, protected by lighthouses and spectacular bluffs, and surrounded by rolling roads and winding paths. Many of the beaches encompassing the island are isolated and nearly untouched providing breathtaking views and utmost tranquility. Two-and-one-half miles of some of New England's finest beach front can be found at Crescent Beach. Block Island has been called the Bermuda of the North, so it is only fitting that most visitors choose bicycles or mopeds as their primary form of island transportation. Many beach-goers find it easy to walk straight to the beach from the ferry landing, or rent a bike or moped to explore the beach further out.
Block Island or Manisses is part of the U.S. state of Rhode Island. It is located in the Atlantic Ocean about 13 miles (21 km) south of the coast of Rhode Island, 14 miles (23 km) east of Montauk Point on Long Island, and is separated from the Rhode Island mainland by Block Island Sound. As of the 2010 census the population of 1,051 lived on a land area of 9.734 square miles (25.211 km 2). The island is part of the Outer Lands region, a coastal archipelago made by the recessional and terminal moraine that resulted from the Wisconsonian Laurentide glacier retreat, about 22,000 years ago.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Block Island Wind Farm is an offshore wind farm under construction expected to be the first one built in the United States. It is located 3 miles (4.8 km) from Block Island, Rhode Island in the Atlantic Ocean. The five-turbine, 30-MW project is being developed by Deepwater Wind which plans to erect the Alstom Haliade 150 6-MW turbines in late summer 2016 and launch commercial operations in the fourth quarter of 2016. The Block Island Wind Farm was conceived as a larger project extending into neighboring Massachusetts to build a $1.5-billion, 385-megawatt wind farm in federal waters.
Block Island looking North over Block Island Sound. The coast of Rhode Island is seen in the distance. The United States Census Bureau defines Block Island as Census Tract 415 of Washington County, Rhode Island. As of the 2010 census the population of 1,051 lived on a land area of 9.734 square miles (25.211 km 2). The island is part of the Outer Lands region, a coastal archipelago made by the recessional and terminal moraine that resulted from the Wisconsonian Laurentide glacier retreat, about 22,000 years ago.