Not to be confused with the secondary tympanic membrane of the round window. In human anatomy, the eardrum, or tympanic membrane, is a thin, cone-shaped membrane that separates the external ear from the middle ear in humans and other tetrapods. Rupture or perforation of the eardrum can lead to conductive hearing loss. Collapse or retraction of the eardrum can also cause conductive hearing loss or even cholesteatoma.
Etiology. Infection is the principal cause of tympanic membrane perforation (TMP). Acute infection of the middle ear may cause a relative ischemia in the drum concurrent with increased pressure in the middle ear space. This leads to a tear or rupture of the eardrum that is usually preceded by severe pain. If the perforation does not heal, it leaves a residual tympanic membrane perforation (TMP)
The most common cause of a ruptured eardrum is a middle ear infection (otitis media). When the infection causes a buildup of pus or fluid in the middle ear, pressure increases in your ear and is painful. This buildup of fluid can cause the eardrum to burst (rupture). Injury and sudden pressure changes are also common causes of a ruptured eardrum. A tear can happen if you try to clean your ear with a cotton-tipped swab or other object. A ruptured or perforated eardrum is an eardrum that has a tear or hole in it. The eardrum is a thin membrane inside the ear canal. It separates the outer ear from the delicate structures of the middle and inner ear
Definition. Tympanic membrane perforation, or a ruptured eardrum, is a hole in the eardrum (tympanic membrane). The eardrum is a very thin membrane made of tissue that separates the middle ear from the ear canal. The eardrum aids in hearing and in preventing bacteria and other foreign matter from entering the middle ear. For those that have symptoms, a ruptured eardrum may cause: 1  Earache, severe and increasing in its severity. 2  Earache, severe, then subsides, then is followed by discharge from the ear. 3  Drainage from the ear—may have blood or pus.
Ruptured eardrum. A ruptured eardrum — or perforated tympanic membrane as it's medically known — is a hole or tear in your eardrum, the thin tissue that separates your ear canal from your middle ear. A ruptured eardrum can result in hearing loss. 
Definition. Tympanic membrane perforation, or a ruptured eardrum, is a hole in the eardrum (tympanic membrane). The eardrum is a very thin membrane made of tissue that separates the middle ear from the ear canal. 
A ruptured eardrum is a tear or hole in the eardrum. The eardrum is a thin membrane inside the ear. It separates the outer ear from the delicate structures of the middle and inner ear. The buildup of fluid can cause the eardrum to burst (rupture) and have a hole or tear. Injury and sudden pressure changes are also common causes of a ruptured eardrum. For example: 1  You can injure and tear your eardrum if you try to clean your ear with a cotton-tipped swab or other object.
When a tympanic membrane perforation persists, the middle ear is unprotected and is vulnerable to infection. When a perforation is present, the ear canal must be kept dry. Repair of the tympanic membrane perforation reinstates the protective barrier to the middle ear, and in some cases can also improve hearing. Tympanoplasty is a microsurgery that uses a patient's own tissues to reconstruct the tympanic membrane.
Infection is the principal cause of tympanic membrane perforation (TMP) is infection. Traumatic perforations occur from blows to the ear, severe atmospheric overpressure, exposure to excessive water pressure (eg, in scuba divers), and improper attempts at wax removal or ear cleaning. Infection is the principal cause of tympanic membrane perforation (TMP). Acute infection of the middle ear may cause a relative ischemia in the drum concurrent with increased pressure in the middle ear space.