Body composition, on the other hand, is looking at what your body is actually made of. When you step on a scale, your weight is a reflection of the amount of skeletal muscle, fat, bones, organs, blood, water, and several other more minor components in your body. There are varying amounts of these things from person to person.
body composition, the relative proportions of protein, fat, water, and mineral components in the body. It varies among individuals as a result of differences in body density and degree of obesity. A physical fitness term for the percentage of fat, bone and muscle in the body, of which fat is of greatest interest. An estimate of the proportions of major components of a living body, as water, nitrogen, sodium; more specifically, the proportion of lean body mass to fat. whole-body composition is of interest in the contexts of control of body weight, assessment of obesity, and sport and exercise,. It comprises total body fat (essential fat plus storage fat) and fat-free body mass (FFM) (includes muscle, water and bone)
Body composition can be measured in different ways. The most basic is through the use of mechanical calipers. By using these calipers on specified skin folds, a person can measure his/her own body composition. There are also devices that measure bioelectrical impedance in the body. When a person is asked about his/her body composition, he/she is simply being asked about how much is his/her body is made of muscle and how much is fat. Some people also include the bone or skeletal component but mostly body composition refers to the muscle and fat content of the body.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Muscle, bone, and fat. Body composition is a term that describes the various percentages of fat, water, bone, and muscle in human bodies. Body composition is the proportion of fat, muscle, and bones of an individuals body.
Abstract. Several aspects of body composition, in particular the amount and distribution of body fat and the amount and composition of lean mass, are now understood to be important health outcomes in infants and children. 
Sports Definition: refers primarily to the distribution of muscle and fat in the body. Body size includes parameters such as height, lengths and girths. Body size and composition is one of the main fitness components, important for success in many sports. For many athletes, this is an area that they concentrate on to reach an optimal body shape for their sport.
In physical fitness, body composition is used to describe the percentages of fat, bone, water and muscle in human bodies. Because muscular tissue takes up less space in our body than fat tissue, our body composition, as well as our weight, determines leanness. 
Body composition refers to the basic muscle and fat contents or percentage of the body. When a person is asked about his/her body composition, he/she is simply being asked about how much is his/her body is made of muscle and how much is fat. Some people also include the bone or skeletal component but mostly body composition refers to the muscle and fat content of the body. Knowing a person’s body composition is important in the field of physical fitness. A person is considered to be healthier and more physically fit if his/her body has more muscle when compared to the fat components. Measuring body composition is not dependent on a person’s weight or height
Body composition is a much more accurate representation of a person's leanness than scale weight or Body Mass Index (BMI), because it does not rely on height and weight alone … to measure leanness. Body composition is the proportion of fat, muscle, and bones of an individuals body.