Acid, calamondin, Chinese and Panama orange are the English equivalents of 'calamansi' [ Citrus x microcarpa ]. The Philippine loan word may be used by those who know of the fruit's native range and culture. 
How to Make Calamansi Juice. Calamansi (aka calamondin) fruit juice is popular in the Philippines and other parts of Southeast Asia. Some people drink it when they have a cold, cough or flu as part of liquids therapy. If a clear juice is desired, the so-called calamansi nip. Allow to stand for three days (inside refrigerator) until the fruit pulp have floated.
In the west it is variously known as acid orange, calamondin orange, or Panama orange. In the Philippines it is called calamansi or lemoncito. It is a shrub or small tree growing to 3–6 m, and bears small citrus fruit used to flavour foods and drinks. Like other citrus fruits, the calamansi is high in vitamin C. In North America, the calamondin is grown mainly as an ornamental plant; it can be especially attractive when the fruit are present. It is frost sensitive and therefore limited to warm climates (e.g., Florida, south Texas, and Hawaii in the U.S.).
Calamondin (× Citrofortunella microcarpa or × Citrofortunella mitis) is an important citrofortunella, meaning that it is an intergenetic hybrid between a member of the genus citrus (in this case probably the mandarin orange) and the kumquat belonging to Fortunella. Eating a whole fruit has a surprise with the combination of sweet and sour. Calamondin marmalade can be made in the same way as orange marmalade. Like other citrus fruits, the calamondin is high in vitamin C. The fruit can be frozen whole and used as ice cubes in beverages such as tea, soft drinks, water, and cocktails. The juice can be used in place of that of the common Persian lime (also called Bearss lime)
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Citrofortunella microcarpa, the Calamondin or Calamansi, is a fruit tree in the family Rutaceae native to the Philippine Islands and has been dubbed the calamondin, golden lime, Panama orange, Chinese orange, acid orange, calamonding, or calamandarin. The fruit is indigenous and widely cultivated in the Philippines (Tagalog: calamansi or kalamansi (kalamansî); Kɐlɐmɐnˈsɪʔ: visayan limonsito or), Simuyaw calamansi is available year round in The philippines and is usually seen in its unripened state as a dark green, fruit but if left to ripen it turns a tangerine orange. color
Calamansi fruit from the Philippines. To me it tastes like a mandarin mixed with lime, sour yet with a sweet orange zest. It’s not so nice to eat alone, as it’s just too bitter. However, when squeezed over food it becomes quite mild and is only faintly tasted. Calamansi is best mixed with soy sauce: In most eateries and homes around the Philippines calamansi is mixed with soy sauce and chilli. This is then used as a dip for meat, or poured over a dish. Usually you mix this yourself at your table.
But one tree that bears fruit all year long-the calamansi tree, better known in America as calamondin. Calamansi (also spelled kalamansi) is used extensively in Filipino cooking– it’s squeezed on pancit noodles, used a marinade for meats, and used to make desserts. It also has multiple purposes outside of the kitchen as well.
Calamansi is a variety of lime used in Southeast Asia cuisines, especially in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, and the Philippines. It’s also a key ingredient in Nyonya food. Sambal belacan is only truly authentic with calamansi juice. Period. If you haven’t tried calamansi, I can only describe it as a sort of hybrid between orange and lime. They have orange pulp but the juice is sour and tart, and there is no lime that can rival the citrusy fragrance of calamansi. I don’t know why celebrity chefs haven’t discovered the use of calamansi yet.
Calamansi (Citrofortunella microcarpa – this is the scientific name, notice how a scientific name is written?) is a type of citrus that is native to the Philippines. It is also known as calamondin, Panama orange or acid orange. It is very sour hence its popularity as souring agent for sinigang and sawsawan (dipping sauces). It is also one of the more common backyard trees in Philippine homes (along with papaya and guava).