The Anemia Panel is a comprehensive panel that includes a CBC, Ferritin, Folates, Total Iron Binding Capacity with Iron, Reticulocyte Count, Vitamin B12 and Folic Acid. A CBC (Complete Blood Count) looks at important parameters of your blood including hemoglobin level, white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets. Anemia is a lower than normal red blood cell count or the lack of hemoglobin in your red blood cells, resulting in a wide range of symptoms. Anemia can cause fatigue, headaches, shortness of breath, dizziness, rapid heartbeat, and a number of other symptoms.
Anemia is a condition that occurs when the number of red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin found in the red blood cells drops below normal. Red blood cells and the hemoglobin contained within them are necessary to transport and deliver oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. These include people with diets poor in iron and vitamins, chronic diseases such as kidney disease, diabetes, cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, a family history of inherited anemia, chronic infections such as tuberculosis or HIV, and those who have had significant blood loss from injury or surgery.
Sample Report. Anemia occurs when you have less than the normal number of red blood cells in your blood or when the red blood cells in your blood don't have enough hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein that gives the red color to your blood. Its main job is to carry oxygen from your lungs to all parts of your body. 
If the CBC results confirm you have anemia, you may need other blood tests to find out what's causing the condition, how severe it is, and the best way to treat it. Reticulocyte count. This test measures the number of reticulocytes (re-TIK-u-lo-sites) in your blood. Reticulocytes are young, immature red blood cells. If you have iron-deficiency anemia, your red blood cells will look smaller and paler than normal. Tests to measure iron levels. These tests can show how much iron has been used from your body's stored iron. Tests to measure iron levels include: 1  Serum iron.
Anemia is a blood disorder that is defined as: 1  having fewer red blood cells than normal, or. 2  having less hemoglobin than normal (hemoglobin is the part of red blood cells that carries oxygen). Vitamin B-12 deficiency anemia: If you have this form of anemia because your stomach does not absorb vitamin B-12 well, the usual treatment is a shot of vitamin B-12 once a month. In some cases your health care provider may prescribe an oral tablet.
Anemia is a condition that develops when your blood lacks enough healthy red blood cells or hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a main part of red blood cells and binds oxygen. If you have too few or abnormal red blood cells, or your hemoglobin is abnormal or low, the cells in your body will not get enough oxygen. Symptoms of anemia -- like fatigue -- occur because organs aren't getting what they need to function properly.
Iron deficiency anemia: This most common form of anemia results from not having enough iron in the blood. Iron is the main component of hemoglobin. Iron deficiency anemia may be caused by a lack of iron in the diet or a loss of blood. Pregnant women may have this form of anemia because the baby uses the mother's iron to make red blood cells and to grow. Vitamin B-12 deficiency anemia: If you have this form of anemia because your stomach does not absorb vitamin B-12 well, the usual treatment is a shot of vitamin B-12 once a month. In some cases your health care provider may prescribe an oral tablet.
If your doctor suspects that bleeding in your stomach or intestines is causing your anemia, you will have tests to determine the cause of the bleeding. These may include: 1  A fecal occult blood test (FOBT), which looks for blood in stool samples. 2  A colonoscopy. 
Other Blood Tests. If the CBC results confirm that you have anemia, you may need other blood tests to find out what type of anemia you have and how severe it is. Reticulocyte count. A reticulocyte (re-TIK-u-lo-site) count measures the number of young red blood cells in your blood. For this test, your doctor removes a small amount of bone marrow tissue through a needle. The tissue is examined to check the number and type of cells in the bone marrow. You may not need bone marrow tests if blood tests show what's causing your hemolytic anemia.