As you might guess, Kalamata olives are abundant in the same healthy fat found in olive oil. Monounsaturated fats may reduce your cholesterol and your chance of heart attack and stroke, according to Harvard Medical School.
Kalamata olives are an excellent source of iron, fiber, calcium, and vitamin A. Real Kalamata olives are only found on the Peloponnese peninsula in southern Greece. Growing under the Grecian sunshine, Kalamata trees have much larger leaves than other types of olive trees and absorb more sunshine. This gives their dark purple fruit a dense texture and a flavor some compare to fine wine.
An almond-shaped deep-purple olive imported from Greece with a rich and fruity flavor from its wine vinegar marinade. They are often slit to allow the marinade to penetrate the flesh. Kalamata olives are packed in either olive oil or vinegar.
Our selection of pitted and non-pitted Kalamata olives brings a splash of Greek flavor to salads, pizza, subs, and more! Deep purple coloring and rich and salty in flavor, these olives are plucked and packed in a flavorful mixture of brine, vinegar, olive oil, herbs, and spices.
Organic Pitted Kalamata Olives are grown on centuries old Organic family farms in the Peloponnesian Peninsula of Greece. Naturally tree–ripened and cured in brine, they have a unique almond shape, a rich purple-black color and a flavor that is only unique to the true Kalamata Olive.
Kalamata olives are also a source of calcium. Getting enough calcium keeps bones strong and can encourage sleep. Your body absorbs calcium best when you also consume potassium, magnesium, and vitamin C. Try combining sliced Kalamata olives with tomatoes and kale and serving with pasta or quinoa.
Kalamata Olives 101. Kalamata Olives (also spelled Calamata and often referred to simply as “Greek olives”) are grown in Kalamata, Greece and the surrounding countryside. They are unique and celebrated among olives for their distinctive almond shape, meaty texture and dark aubergine color.
Kalamata olives are known as a black olive, although they are actually dark purple in color. Native to Greece, Kalamata olives can be eaten plain or chopped up to be used in a dish. Made from fully ripe olives, Kalamata olives are marinated in olive oil or vinegar and are widely available in grocery stores.