The white circle on the flag has the second part of the Shahada phrase stating  Muhammad is the Messenger of God.. The entire Islamic phrase and the black color in the flag suggest no harm, but the terrorists group used it for the name of war. It denotes another ominous meaning or else the black flag simply is a declaration of the Islam faith.
Credit: theglobalpanorama. The flag is often called the Black Standard or the Black Banner. “The black banner of Islam as an idea goes back to the 8th century, when the Second Dynasty of Islam came to power with black banners,” says Jonathan Bloom, a professor of Islamic Art at Boston College. It's become a symbol that's hard to ignore: The black flag with white Arabic writing flown by ISIS, the militant group in Iraq and Syria that calls itself the Islamic State, and displayed everywhere from the suburbs of New Jersey to the window of a Sydney cafe café during a hostage. crisis
It's become a symbol that's hard to ignore: The black flag with white Arabic writing flown by ISIS, the militant group in Iraq and Syria that calls itself the Islamic State, and displayed everywhere from the suburbs of New Jersey to the window of a Sydney cafe café during a hostage. Crisis: credit. theglobalpanorama The flag is often called the Black Standard or the Black Banner. “The black banner of Islam as an idea goes back to the 8th century, when the Second Dynasty of Islam came to power with black banners,” says Jonathan Bloom, a professor of Islamic Art at Boston College.t's become a symbol that's hard to ignore: The black flag with white Arabic writing flown by ISIS, the militant group in Iraq and Syria that calls itself the Islamic State, and displayed everywhere from the suburbs of New Jersey to the window of a Sydney cafe café during a hostage. crisis
The Islamic State flag is historically known as the “Black Banner” or “Black Standard.”. There have been multiple versions throughout history. Its earliest incarnation can be traced to the advent of Islam in 7th century C.E., where Muhammad allegedly spread his teachings under the Black Standard. The above Arabic text seen on the Islamic State flag is that of an Islamic creed called the Shahada, which translates to “testimony.” The testimony confirms that Islam is a monotheistic religion and that Muhammad was its one true prophet. According to Wikipedia, the Shahada directly translates to: (Wikipedia).
“As it appears in … “. http://www.pri.org/stories/2014-09-04/ever-wonder-what-black-and-white-isis-flag-means. It’s become a symbol that’s hard to ignore this summer: The black flag with white Arabic writing flown by ISIS, the militant group in Iraq and Syria that calls itself the Islamic State. “. http://www.pri.org/stories/2014-09-04/isis-has-new-hand-sign-and-it-means-far-more-we-re-1. The Islamic State militants, known as ISIS, are now using a single, raised index finger as the symbol of their cause. It’s a well-known sign of power and victory around the world, but for ISIS, it has a more sinister meaning.
“The words are what makes the flag so powerful,” al Khoei says. “It is a very weird and awkward situation for Muslims because ISIS is an evil terrorist organization with an actual holy flag.”. The black and white flag’s meaning is further complicated by the fact that ISIS did not create the image it bears. More. The world is now becoming accustomed to seeing images of the stark black-and-white flag whose bearers are threatening to remake the Middle East and who have already taken responsibility for numerous acts of murder, massacres and ethnic cleansing across Iraq and Syria.
In the year that the extremist group Isis has risen to international attention by establishing its so-called Islamic state across swathes of Iraq and Syria, it has proven itself as a powerful propaganda machine capable of attracting recruits from across the world and inspiring bloody terror attacks.he flag in its entirety is used by Al-Shabab in Somalia and Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula amongst others, Winter added. He went on to explain that Isis “have done a good job of co-opting” the flag for their cause, even when it is used in a context unrelated to the organisation.
comments powered by Disqus. It's become a symbol that's hard to ignore: The black flag with white Arabic writing flown by ISIS, the militant terrorist group in Iraq and Syria that calls itself the Islamic State or ISIS.
Tags: al qaeda black flags,isis flag,jihadist flags,symbols of jihad flags,testtube daily,the meaning of the black flags of jihad,black flags of jihad,flag of the eagle. ISIS, Al Qaeda, and other Jihadist groups all seem to have the same variations of the same flag. What do these Black Flags ...