Dental Assistant in Seattle, WA. Average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings in Seattle, WA are 8% higher than average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide.
On average, Dental Assistants in Seattle make $45K following one to two decades on the job. Dental Assistants in Seattle, Wash. with more than 20 years of experience report incomes that are no higher than those with 10 to 20 years on the job. ADVERTISEMENT. (United States). Earnings for Seattle Dental Assistants come in at around $18.49 per hour on average. Most Dental Assistants in Seattle report high levels of job satisfaction. Unfortunately, some people in this line of work are without benefits — roughly two in five lack coverage.
The salary for someone with the job title Dental Assistant in Seattle, WA varies depending on a number of factors. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Dental Assistant in Seattle, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Dental Assistant in Seattle are expected to make less than the median.
Dental Assistant Salary and Wages by State. How much dental assistants make varies from state to state. This is due to differences in cost of living, levels of demand for dental assistants, and other factors. Here are the 10 highest-paying states for dental assistant salary and hourly wage:
Home to some of the best pay for Dental Assistants, Seattle offers exceptional salaries, 24 percent above the national average. Dental Assistants can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Charlotte (+17 percent), New York (+10 percent), Atlanta (+6 percent), and Chicago (+2 percent). 
Washington Dental Assistant Salaries. Within Washington there is a lot of variation in Dental Assistant salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market.
Dental Assistant Salary by State. Dental assistant salary can vary widely from state to state. Factors such as state economy, cost of living, and demand for dental assistant services influences dental assistant salary by state. In general, states with larger populations, and therefore greater demand for dental assistants, trend toward higher salaries than states with lower populations. 
Average Dental Assistant Salaries. The average salary for dental assistant jobs in Seattle, WA is $42,000. Average dental assistant salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term dental assistant anywhere in the job listing.