State discrimination laws-keep all personnel records for at least one year following an employee's last day of work. IRS payroll tax-related records-keep these records for at least four years following the period covered by the records. Common Law Requirements. There are no common law requirements as such for how long employers should keep certain kinds of records. Unemployment compensation-keep all records relating to employees' wages and other compensation, as well as all unemployment tax records, for at least four years. Family and Medical Leave (FMLA) - keep all payroll, benefit, and leave-related documentation for at least three years after conclusion of the leave event.
The FMLA requires the retention of certain records with respect to payroll and demographic information as well as information related to the individual employee's leave of absence for three years. : OSHA requires that records of job-related injuries and illnesses be kept for five years. The ADEA requires the retention of the same records for one year for employers with twenty or more employees. Title VII and the ADA require that basic employee demographic data, pay rates, and weekly compensation records be retained for at least one year. :
In the case of employment records, the IRS guidelines say to keep the records for a minimum of four years after you pay the tax or the tax is due, whichever of the two dates is later. Small business expert Rieva Lesonsky suggests you keep employment records for a minimum of two years and for up to seven years. She says that most states have a two-year statute of limitations on lawsuit filings by former employees, so you want to make sure you have documents at hand if this occurs. If you have employment contracts with your employees, then you should maintain these contracts for at least 10 years. According to Financial Web, you should “err on the side of caution” and maintain employee records for a longer period than you think you may need, in case a legal issue arises.
For purposes of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), employers are required to keep payroll records for the same length of time required under the FLSA -- three years from the termination date. However, other employee benefit information must be retained for only one year. The record keeping requirements for salaried, exempt employees differ slightly, only because exempt employees aren't entitled to overtime and, therefore, the employer wouldn't have proof of overtime paid. The FLSA requires that employers maintain nonexempt records for three years from the employment termination date.
Oregon law requires employers to keep personnel records for 60 days, and to keep payroll records for 2 years (3 years under federal law), but that does NOT mean it is a good idea to purge those documents as soon as you can lawfully do so. 
Employers would be wise to maintain all employee records for at least three years -- to cover all the bases of the federal rules -- and longer, if necessary, pursuant to state rules. The record keeping requirements for salaried, exempt employees differ slightly, only because exempt employees aren't entitled to overtime and, therefore, the employer wouldn't have proof of overtime paid. The FLSA requires that employers maintain nonexempt records for three years from the employment termination date.
When an employment relationship ends, employers have an obligation to store employee personnel files in a secure location. The length of time employee records must be kept varies, according to federal and some state laws concerning employer record keeping. The record keeping requirements for salaried, exempt employees differ slightly, only because exempt employees aren't entitled to overtime and, therefore, the employer wouldn't have proof of overtime paid. The FLSA requires that employers maintain nonexempt records for three years from the employment termination date.
Employment records consist of employee personnel files, payroll records, benefits enrollment forms and medical records. Job-related materials -- everything except health and medical information -- is generally stored within the human resources department and may be available to staff on a need-to-know basis. The record keeping requirements for salaried, exempt employees differ slightly, only because exempt employees aren't entitled to overtime and, therefore, the employer wouldn't have proof of overtime paid. The FLSA requires that employers maintain nonexempt records for three years from the employment termination date.
Recordkeeping Requirements. EEOC Regulations require that employers keep all personnel or employment records for one year. If an employee is involuntarily terminated, his/her personnel records must be retained for one year from the date of termination. Under ADEA recordkeeping requirements, employers must also keep all payroll records for three ... 