The majority of school nurses in Georgia, work on a nine-month contract. Salaries vary by experience, academic achievements, school location and the size of the student population. In the metropolitan area of Atlanta, salaries range from $35,439 to $55,998, with the average annual salary reported at $44,354. In Macon, the median annual salary is $41,446. Rural school districts, with a smaller student population, offer somewhat less
Salaries in Georgia range from $16.50 an hour to over $35 an hour, dependent on secondary degrees and experience. The National Association of School Nurses advises that school nurses have a minimum of a baccalaureate degree and obtain school nurse certification. Salaries vary by experience, academic achievements, school location and the size of the student population. In the metropolitan area of Atlanta, salaries range from $35,439 to $55,998, with the average annual salary reported at $44,354.
Average School Nurse salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average School Nurse salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The average starting salary for a Georgia certified teacher is $38,925. According to the Georgia Department of Education, the average teacher salary for all levels of experience is $53,164. However, these figures are not guarantees of actual salaries for students pursuing teaching certification in Georgia.
New Search Georgia School Nurse SalariesNew SearchWithin Georgia there is a lot of variation in School Nurse Salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Georgia and surrounding states, click on any one to find School Nurse Salaries for that area. Administers nursing care under the guidelines of a school system. Participates in the implementation and evaluation of student care. Ensures the health, comfort and safety of students. May require an associate's degree, state educational and licensure requirements, and 0-2 years of experience in the field.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. According to PayScale.com, the median salary for a Registered Nurse in Georgia is $51,505. And the hourly rate for a RN in Georgia typically ranges from $21.61 to $28.13. Salaries always vary depending on location, qualifications, employment setting and other factors. But based on the above figures, $63,000 sounds like a good starting salary for a Registered Nurse in Georgia.
(United States). A Registered Nurse (RN) in Atlanta, Georgia earns an average wage of $26.93 per hour. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Recovery / Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU), Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), and Cardiology. $39,748 - $80,515. (Median
Administers nursing care under the guidelines of a school system. Participates in the implementation and evaluation of student care. Ensures the health, comfort and safety of students. May require an associate's degree, state educational and licensure requirements, and 0-2 years of experience in the field. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of School Nurse in Atlanta, GA that make less than that salary.