afferent nerve. any nerve that transmits impulses from the periphery toward the central nervous system. See also neuron, afferent nerve fibers (below). afferent nerve fibers. nerve fibers in the peripheral nervous system carrying information to the brain and spinal cord. Carrying inward to a central organ or section, as nerves that conduct impulses from the periphery of the body to the brain or spinal cord. n. An afferent organ or body part, such as a blood vessel.
Sensory nerves, sometimes called afferent nerves, carry information from the outside world, such as sensations of heat, cold, and pain, to the brain and spinal cord. Motor nerves, or efferent nerves, transmit impulses from the brain and spinal cord to the muscles. depressor nerve. 1. a nerve that lessens the activity of an organ. 2. an afferent nerve whose stimulation causes a fall in blood pressure. efferent nerve any nerve that carries impulses from the central nervous system toward the periphery, such as a motor nerve. See also neuron.
afferent neuron, sensory neuron-a neuron conducting impulses inwards to the brain or spinal cord. nerve, nervus-any bundle of nerve fibers running to various organs and tissues of the body. afferent fiber, sensory fiber-a nerve fiber that carries impulses toward the central nervous system. Noun. 1. afferent-a nerve that passes impulses from receptors toward or to the central nervous system. afferent nerve, sensory nerve. dorsal horn, dorsal root-one of the two roots of a spinal nerve that passes dorsally to the spinal cord and that consists of sensory fibers.
(April 2014). In the peripheral nervous system, an afferent nerve fiber is the nerve fiber (axon) of an afferent neuron (sensory neuron). It is a long process (projection) extending far from the nerve cell body that carries nerve impulses from sensory receptors or sense organs toward the central nervous system. The opposite direction of neural activity is efferent conduction. In the nervous system there is a closed loop system of sensation, decision, and reactions. This process is carried out through the activity of afferent neurons (sensory neurons), interneurons, and efferent neurons (motor neurons). Afferent neurons' somas are located in the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system, and the axons of these cells travel from ganglion to ganglion and lead back to the spinal cord. The majority of these are unipolar neurons in that they have a single axon leaving the cell body and is sent towards the sensory organ.
Describes nerves that carry impulses towards the central nervous system, or to relay stations outside it, from neural receptors (e.g. sensory nerves from the skin, those conveying proprioceptive information from muscles and joints or visceral afferents from internal organs). Carrying inward to a central organ or section, as nerves that conduct impulses from the periphery of the body to the brain or spinal cord. n. An afferent organ or body part, such as a blood vessel.
It is a long process (projection) extending far from the nerve cell body that carries nerve impulses away from the central nervous system toward the peripheral effector organs (mainly muscles and glands). The opposite direction of neural activity is afferent conduction. In the nervous system there is a closed loop system of sensation, decision, and reactions. This process is carried out through the activity of afferent neurons (sensory neurons), interneurons, and efferent neurons (motor neurons). The motor nerves are efferent nerves involved in muscular control. 
1 Afferent fibers are those that carry neural impulses toward the central nervous system. ( 2 Afferent nerves ascend to or approach the central nervous system.). 3  Efferent fibers carry impulses from the central nervous system to effectors such as muscles and glands. Afferent and efferent nerves make up the peripheral nervous system. There are two types of peripheral nerve fibers, afferent and efferent. 1 
An afferent nerve conducts the impulse from the site of origin to the central nervous system. afferent nerves, n.pl See nerves, afferent, in pulp. See also afferent impulse. afferent nervous system, n. the sensory nerves, a subdivision of the peripheral nervous system. Afferent nerves receive sensory input. Carrying inward to a central organ or section, as nerves that conduct impulses from the periphery of the body to the brain or spinal cord. n. An afferent organ or body part, such as a blood vessel.
Figure 6. Location of the brain and the spinal cord in the human body. Afferent and efferent nerves make up the peripheral nervous system. There are two types of peripheral nerve fibers, afferent and efferent. 1  Afferent fibers are those that carry neural impulses toward the central nervous system. 2  Efferent fibers carry impulses from the central nervous system to effectors such as muscles and glands. Afferent and efferent nerves make up the peripheral nervous system. There are two types of peripheral nerve fibers, afferent and efferent. 1  Afferent fibers are those that carry neural impulses toward the central nervous system. ( 2 Afferent nerves ascend to or approach the central nervous system.).