Make Google your default search engine. Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Google. 5  Click Set as default and click Close
On Windows 8, you can launch Chrome as a Windows 8 app. Step 1: Adjust your Windows settings. 1  Download and install Chrome. 2  Click on the Start button, then click Control Panel. 3  Click Programs Default Programs Set your default programs. 4  In the panel on the left, select Google Chrome. 5  Click Set this program as default. 1
Chrome as default browser in Windows 10. Complete the given below directions to set Google Chrome as default browser in Windows 10. Method 1 of 2. Step 1: Open Settings app. To do so, open Start menu and then click Settings icon. Alternatively, you can use Windows + I keyboard shortcut to quickly open Settings app. Step 3: In the left-pane, click Default apps. Step 4: Now, on the right-side, scroll down the page to see Web browser section. Step 5: Click on the Edge browser entry (or any browser other than Chrome) to reveal Choose an app, and then click Google Chrome to set it as default browser.
Set Chrome as your default web browser. 1  Open Chrome. 2  In the top right, click the Chrome menu. 3  Click Settings. 4  In the Default browser section, click Make Google Chrome the default browser. 5  If you don't see the button, Google Chrome is already your default browser. 1 Download and install Chrome. 2  Click on the Start button, then click Control Panel. 3  Click Programs Default Programs Set your default programs. 4  In the panel on the left, select Google Chrome. 5  Click Set this program as default.
You can also set the default browser through the Control Panel. Open the Start menu, type 'Default programs', hit enter and click 'Set your default programs' in the window that appears. Click your browser in the list on the left and then click 'Set this program default' on the right. You can also choose which file types and protocols that browser opens by default.
1 Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Google. 5  Click Set as default and click Close. Make Google your default search engine. Search right from the address bar, wherever you go on the web. Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Googl
1 Click the menu button, then choose. 2  In the General pane, click Make Default. 3  The Set Default Programs window will open. 4  In the Set Default Programs window, select from the list of programs on the left and click Set this program as default. 5  Then click OK to close the window. This article applies only to Windows 10. 1 
Click the menu button and choose Options. Preferences. 1  Select the panel, and then click Make Firefox My Default Browser. 2  The Set Default Programs window will open. 3  In the Set Default Programs window, select from the list of programs on the left and click Set this program as default. 4  Then click OK to close the window. 