With monopolar radio frequency treatments the RF energy is transmitted onto the skin using a single electrode, the opposing electrode is placed some distance away. Bipolar RF skin treatments are administered via an probe containing the two opposing electrodes. No recovery time is needed after a radio frequency treatment! You can just get up and go on with your daily routines. Results become apparent immediately but their maximum effect is visible some two months after the treatment cycle is over. Results last for years and treatments may be undergone again when necessary.
See also:Radiofrequency ablation (thyroid). Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is a medical procedure in which part of the electrical conduction system of the heart, tumor or other dysfunctional tissue is ablated using the heat generated from high frequency alternating current (in the range of 350–500 kHz). Once the diagnosis of tumor is confirmed, a needle-like RFA probe is placed inside the tumor. The radiofrequency waves passing through the probe increase the temperature within tumor tissue and results in destruction of
Radio Frequency Treatment. Radio frequency technology is used in medaesthetics in several capacities, most commonly with face treatments. Other treatments involving radio frequency (RF) technology are body contouring. Radio frequency treatment is also administered as a complementary procedure to laser hair reduction. No recovery time is needed after a radio frequency treatment! You can just get up and go on with your daily routines. Results become apparent immediately but their maximum effect is visible some two months after the treatment cycle is over. Results last for years and treatments may be undergone again when necessary.
Radiofrequency ablation is a therapy that uses radio waves to create an electrical current. This current delivers heat to targeted nerve tissues, in an attempt to reduce chronic pain symptoms that are associated with various conditions. Radiofrequency ablation is a non-surgical therapy that was initially discovered to be an effective treatment for the relief of chronic pain in 1931 when it was utilized to treat a patient with trigeminal neuralgia, which is a pain condition that affects facial nerves, resulting in severe jolts of pain.
RFA may be performed to treat tumors in the lung, liver, kidney, and bone, as well as other body organs less commonly. Once the diagnosis of tumor is confirmed, a needle-like RFA probe is placed inside the tumor. The radiofrequency waves passing through the probe increase the temperature within tumor tissue and results in destruction of the tumor.
Definition. Radiofrequency neurotomy is a procedure to reduce back and neck pain. Heat generated by radio waves is used to target specific nerves and temporarily interfere with their ability to transmit pain signals. The radio waves are delivered to the targeted nerves via needles inserted through the skin above your spine. 
With the introduction of the medaesthetic radio frequency treatment a safer, easier to endure, less expensive alternative to face lifts became available. RF face treatments are conducted in 30 to 60 minute sessions, usually a series of some 4 to eight treatments is recommended, one to three weeks apart. No recovery time is needed after a radio frequency treatment! You can just get up and go on with your daily routines. Results become apparent immediately but their maximum effect is visible some two months after the treatment cycle is over. Results last for years and treatments may be undergone again when necessary.
Radio Frequency treatment can be used to treat lines and wrinkles anywhere on your face, but also targeted around the mouth, the forehead, around the eyes and even on parts of your body. A great low downtime way of treating a multitude of skin blemishes and marks, radio frequency treatment, combined with our years of experience and great after care service, will set you on a path to a more confident and happy you.
In this article. Radiofrequency ablation (or RFA) is a procedure used to reduce pain. An electrical current produced by a radio wave is used to heat up a small area of nerve tissue, thereby decreasing pain signals from that specific area. The degree of pain relief varies, depending on the cause and location of the pain. Pain relief from RFA can last from six to 12 months and in some cases, relief can last for years. More than 70% of patients treated with RFA experience pain relief.
Although radio frequency is a rate of oscillation, the term radio frequency or its abbreviation RF are used as a synonym for radio – i.e., to describe the use of wireless communication, as opposed to communication via electric wires. Examples include: 1  Radio-frequency identification. 