The family Phylliidae (often misspelled Phyllidae) contains the extant true leaf insects or walking leaves, which include some of the most remarkably camouflaged leaf mimics in the entire animal kingdom. They occur from South Asia through Southeast Asia to Australia. They do this so accurately that predators often are not able to distinguish them from real leaves. In some species the edge of the leaf insect's body even has the appearance of bite marks. To further confuse predators, when the leaf insect walks, it rocks back and forth, to mimic a real leaf being blown by the wind.
Female Spiny Leaf Insects are not only larger than the males, but also live longer, surviving for up to 18 months. They lay thousands of eggs during their adult life, flicking them onto the ground below their perch. The eggs have a knob, called a capitulum, which is attractive to ants. Phasmids are insects that eat leaves and resemble leaves or sticks. Stick insect. Creator: Andrew Howells © Australian Museum. They are usually green or brown but may reveal brightly coloured underwings when they fly. They have developed many unusual shapes to camouflage themselves to avoid detection by predators.
Lots of people have cats and birds but not many have a spiny leaf insect. Plus they are really easy to look after! To take care of your spiny leaf insect, give them fresh eucalyptus leaves every 2-3 days, which you can leave in a vase of water in their tank or cage. It is best for the insects to have a vertical (rather than horizontal) aquarium to live in. And just spray the leaves with water about twice a day. If you've got spiny leaf insect eggs to look after, put some river sand in a container and lay the eggs gently on top. Then you spray them with water every 2-3 days. Local species of spiny leaf insects can be found in rose bushes and also in wattle.
Show All Items. How to look after your very own spiny leaf insect (extatosoma tiaratum), a unique species of stick insect from Australia! These are commonly found in pet stores all over the world, and are quite popular as pets. 
Leaf and Stick Insects: Order Phasmatodea. Phasmids are insects that eat leaves and resemble leaves or sticks. Stick insect. Creator: Andrew Howells © Australian Museum. They are usually green or brown but may reveal brightly coloured underwings when they fly. They have developed many unusual shapes to camouflage themselves to avoid detection by predators.
Spiny Leaf Insects. One interesting Australian phasmid is the Spiny Leaf Insect (Extatosoma tiaratum), also called Macleay's Spectre Stick Insect. The females of this species have very large bodies but very short wings and are unable to fly. The males are long and slim with fully developed wings. Phasmids are insects that eat leaves and resemble leaves or sticks. Stick insect. Creator: Andrew Howells © Australian Museum. They are usually green or brown but may reveal brightly coloured underwings when they fly. They have developed many unusual shapes to camouflage themselves to avoid detection by predators.
Extatosoma tiaratum (common names Giant Prickly Stick Insect, Spiny Leaf insect, Macleay's Spectre, or Australian Walking Stick) is a large species of stick insect endemic to Australia. The species has the Phasmid Study Group number PSG9. 
However, if you feed them eucalyptus they generally turn a shade of brown. Spiny Leaf Insect Facts: 1  Spiny leaf insects and stick insects are phasmids. 2  Phasmids are generally insects that eat leaves and resemble leaves or sticks. 3  They are also known as Macleay's Spectre Stick Insect. And just spray the leaves with water about twice a day. If you've got spiny leaf insect eggs to look after, put some river sand in a container and lay the eggs gently on top. Then you spray them with water every 2-3 days. Local species of spiny leaf insects can be found in rose bushes and also in wattle.
They are like the leaves of the mulberry tree, but not so long; they have the leaf stalk short and pointed, and near the leaf stalk they have on each side two feet. If they are touched they escape, but if crushed they do not give out blood. I kept one for nine days in a box. When I opened it the leaf went round the box. They do this so accurately that predators often are not able to distinguish them from real leaves. In some species the edge of the leaf insect's body even has the appearance of bite marks. To further confuse predators, when the leaf insect walks, it rocks back and forth, to mimic a real leaf being blown by the wind.
Habitat and Feeding. » A warm environment that offers plenty of leaves is the ideal habitat for these insects. The diet of a leaf insect mainly comprises leaves of... Some of these insects can live feeding only on blackberry leaves for their entire lifetime. » Leaf insects do not have to worry about drinking water. 