March 13, 2012 by Chris Ray 4 Comments. Situational awareness is the most important skillset when it comes to your safety. By practicing situational awareness, you can avoid being in dangerous situations, possibly involving another person, unsafe driving conditions or any number of other things. Coopers Color Code is absolutely a part of situational awareness. To be fully aware of any given situation you need to be aware of more than just whether or not someone an immediate threat to you. For instance, let’s say you are in a room with twelve other people.
I define situational awareness as the ability to take in information about those around you, your surroundings as well self-analysis, interpret that information and act accordingly to your current situation. To fully develop this I’ll briefly explore the tree aspects of situational awareness. Coopers Color Code is absolutely a part of situational awareness. To be fully aware of any given situation you need to be aware of more than just whether or not someone an immediate threat to you. For instance, let’s say you are in a room with twelve other people.
Situational awareness or situation awareness (SA) is the perception of environmental elements with respect to time or space, the comprehension of their meaning, and the projection of their status after some variable has changed, such as time, or some other variable, such as a predetermined event. Shared situation awareness can be defined as  the degree to which team members possess the same SA on shared SA requirements  (Endsley & Jones, 1997, p. 47; 2001, p. 48). As implied by this definition, there are information requirements that are relevant to multiple team members.
SA States refers to the actual awareness of the situation. SA Systems refers to the distribution of SA in teams and between objects in the environment, and to the exchange of SA between system parts. SA Processes refers to the updating of SA States, and what guides the moment-to-moment change of SA.hared situation awareness can be defined as  the degree to which team members possess the same SA on shared SA requirements  (Endsley & Jones, 1997, p. 47; 2001, p. 48). As implied by this definition, there are information requirements that are relevant to multiple team members.
One with an adept sense of situation awareness generally has a high degree of knowledge with respect to inputs and outputs of a system, i.e. an innate feel for situations, people, and events that play out due to variables the subject can control. Shared situation awareness can be defined as  the degree to which team members possess the same SA on shared SA requirements  (Endsley & Jones, 1997, p. 47; 2001, p. 48). As implied by this definition, there are information requirements that are relevant to multiple team members.
- Situation knowledge (SN) or Situation Awareness (SA). 1.1.1.3 Definition of Situation Awareness adopted for ESSAI. In developing a working definition of SA, it is important to realise that, much like other constructs. (attention, workload, stress, risk, etc.), SA has no absolute, or ‘correct’ definition.
Situational awareness is a term used to describe a persons awareness of their surroundings, the meaning of these surroundings, a prediction of what these surroundings will mean in the future, and then using this information to act. This can be simplified down into three key words: Look-Think-Act. 
The fundamental definition of the term situational awareness (SA) in the context of power grid operation is understanding the current environment and being able to accurately anticipate future problems to enable effective actions.. It is the process of creating situational awareness and understanding to support decision making under uncertainty — an effort to understand connections among people, places and events in order to anticipate their trajectories and act effectively (Klein et al., 2006).
Situation awareness involves being aware of what is happening in the vicinity, in order to understand how information, events, and one's own actions will impact goals and objectives, both immediately and in the near future. Shared situation awareness can be defined as  the degree to which team members possess the same SA on shared SA requirements  (Endsley & Jones, 1997, p. 47; 2001, p. 48). As implied by this definition, there are information requirements that are relevant to multiple team members.
There are numerous definitions that relate to Situation Awareness. One definition of SA is: The perception of the elements in the environment within a volume of time and space, the comprehension of their meaning and the projection of their status in the near future. (Endsley 1998). (CAA Document 29). A third definition is: Situation awareness refers to one’s ability to accurately perceive what is going on in the cockpit and outside the aircraft. It further extends to the planning of several solutions for any emergency situation which could occur in the immediate future.