While it’s preferable for your name to be on the title and registration of the vehicle you want to insure, there are some car insurance carriers that will allow you to buy a policy for a car you don’t own but have care, custody and control of. (See “ Insuring a car you don’t own ”). You will have to shop around to find such an insurer in your area. Be upfront with car insurance companies that you don’t own the car but that you have possession of it, and explain why you want to insure it.
Comments. My dad says he will put himself as the main person for insurance on my car with me as a named, extra driver but my friend says that's not legal and the insurer won't pay out if I crash. If the younger policyholder does the bulk of the driving, they should be the main named driver. This may cost far more initially, but it will help youngsters build up their own no-claims bonus, which will entitle you to lower premiums in the future.
Insurance options for new drivers. If you're a learner driver there are likely to be three main insurance scenarios to consider when you hit the road. You may be taking lessons with a professional instructor, you may have been added to the policy of another driver, or you might be looking to take out your own insurance. 
New tax disc rules: avoid a £1k fine. If the parent has insured themselves as the main driver and never or only occasionally drives the car, this is an illegal practice known as fronting, and the cover is invalid. All insurance policies are contracts that rely on honesty on both sides, Mr Webb said. If the younger policyholder does the bulk of the driving, they should be the main named driver. This may cost far more initially, but it will help youngsters build up their own no-claims bonus, which will entitle you to lower premiums in the future.
If the parent has insured themselves as the main driver and never or only occasionally drives the car, this is an illegal practice known as fronting, and the cover is invalid. If the younger policyholder does the bulk of the driving, they should be the main named driver. This may cost far more initially, but it will help youngsters build up their own no-claims bonus, which will entitle you to lower premiums in the future.
Provisional Drivers Insurance. You don’t need a full driving license in order to take out insurance in your own name. You can take out your own insurance policy even on a provisional license, and it’s particularly recommended that you do so if the car you are learning to drive in is owned or driven solely by you. 
I'd just add the extra complication of the main driver into the equation. In my experience whenever the insured person is not the same individual as the owner / registered keeper and / or the main driver, the latter especially, then the number of insurance companies who will provide a quote significantly reduces. 