Probably one of the earliest pictures of Caesar's restaurant. More pictures of Caesar's restaurant here. According to Caesar's daughter Rosa, on July 4th 1924 the salad was created on a busy weekend at Caesar's Restaurant. Caesar salad was invented in about 1903 by Giacomo Junia, an Italian cook in Chicago, Illinois. Giacomo Junia was the cook in a small restaurant called The New York Cafe.
1 You will hear two different stories about the origin of the name for Caesar salad. 2  One story is that it was named for Julius Caesar. 3  Another story is that Caesar Cardini, an Italian immigrant to the United States, developed the salad dressing in the 1920s for his restaurant in Tijuana, Mexico. 1 The cheese is mixed with creamy ingredients such as mayonnaise, sour cream, buttermilk, milk or yogurt and often with vinegar and some spices. 2  Caesar dressing comes from Caesar salad, a popular item on many restaurant menus. 3 
A totally heterodox origin for Caesar salad appears in the 3rd edition of Webster's New World: so named in honor of (Gaius) Julius Caesar by Giacomo Junia, Italian-American chef in Chicago, who invented it c. 1903.. Caesar was born near Lago Maggiore, Italy, in 1896; he and his brother Alex emigrated to the U.S. after World War I. The Cardini's lived in San Diego but operated a restaurant in Tijuana to circumvent Prohibition.
There are many claims as to who invented Caesar salad. Caesar (Cesare) Cardini Caesar was born near Lago Maggiore, Italy, in 1896; he and his brother Alex emigrated to the U.S. after World War I. Caesar salad was invented in about 1903 by Giacomo Junia, an Italian cook in Chicago, Illinois. Giacomo Junia was the cook in a small restaurant called The New York Cafe.
A simple Caesar salad. A Caesar salad is a salad of romaine lettuce and croutons dressed with parmesan cheese, lemon juice, olive oil, egg, Worcestershire sauce, garlic, and black pepper. It is often prepared tableside. According to Rosa Cardini, the original Caesar salad (unlike his brother Alex's Aviator's salad) did not contain pieces of anchovy; the slight anchovy flavor comes from the Worcestershire sauce. Cardini was opposed to using anchovies in his salad.
Guest correspondent Judith replies: Ahem. From The Joy of Cooking, by Rombauer, Becker and Becker, 1997 edition: The Caesar is said to have been invented in 1924 by Caesar Cardini at his restaurant in Tijuana, Mexico, where it was made with whole leaves of romaine lettuce and eaten with the fingers. 
History [edit]. The salad's creation is generally attributed to restaurateur Caesar Cardini, an Italian immigrant who operated restaurants in Mexico and the United States. Cardini was living in San Diego but also working in Tijuana where he avoided the restrictions of Prohibition. According to Rosa Cardini, the original Caesar salad (unlike his brother Alex's Aviator's salad) did not contain pieces of anchovy; the slight anchovy flavor comes from the Worcestershire sauce. Cardini was opposed to using anchovies in his salad.
Confidence votes 3. The Caesar salad was invented by Caesar Cardini in 1924 on the 4th of July, although several of Cardini's relatives and business partners also claim to have made it first. The Caesar salad is not named after Juliu … s Caesar. It is named  for its creator, Caesar Cardini, who first prepared the salad in  his Caesar's Palace Restaurant in Tijuana, Mexico.
Its origin and recipes. This recipe is very close to the original version created in 1924 by Caesar Cardini, an Italian restaurateur in Tijuana, Mexico. That's right, the salad is named after its creator, a Chef, not Julius Caesar of the famed Roman empire. Serving Size: 4
Paul Maggiora, a partner of the Cardini's, claimed to have tossed the first Caesar's salad in 1927 for American airmen from San Diego and called it Aviator's Salad. Caesar's brother Alex had claimed to have developed the salad (he too allegedly called it aviator's salad). Caesar salad was invented in about 1903 by Giacomo Junia, an Italian cook in Chicago, Illinois. Giacomo Junia was the cook in a small restaurant called The New York Cafe.