Shingles is an infection of the nerves and surrounding skin caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox, the herpes varicella-zoster virus. Shingles results in a rash that can be mildly itchy to intensely painful. The rash appears as raised dots that develop into blisters, then dry out and crust over. Symptoms of shingles include: 1  Pain or bruised feeling-usually on one side of your face or body-often along with a fever, chills, headache or upset stomach. 2  People will often feel unwell for several days before the rash appears.
An Underarm Rash, as the name suggests, is a rash that develops on the skin of the armpit. The condition is also known as Armpit rash. It is an eruption that causes irritation and itchiness. It is a very common condition that appears in many people in the US. In some cases, the rashes may be a sign of other conditions like diabetes, skin infections, venereal diseases and AIDS. Underarm Rash cure is done by treating the causative factor in such cases. Medical treatment of the condition is usually done with the help of over-the-counter medicines, ointments and creams.
An armpit rash refers to a change of the underarm skin that affects its appearance color or texture. When you have it, your armpit skin might become red (change color), swollen, bumpy (raised pimple-like), chapped, cracked, scaly, flaky, blistered, spotty, blotchy, pus filled, warm, painful (hurts) or painless. Underarm rash due to due to allergic reaction or contact dermatitis. Allergic reactions to various chemicals such as soap, shaving creams, body lotions, cosmetics, certain synthetic clothing material, fragrances, or detergents used to clean your clothes can cause rashes especially red itchy rashes.
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms itching or burning, skin blisters, skin open sore and skin rash including Lice, Contact dermatitis, and Poison ivy, oak, and sumac. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
If the rashes are found to be caused by fungal infection, doctors may prescribe an anti-fungal cream. Anti-itching creams and underarm rash ointments are used to give patients relief from itching sensation. Antibiotics are also used in case of severe rashes. In some cases, the rashes may be a sign of other conditions like diabetes, skin infections, venereal diseases and AIDS. Underarm Rash cure is done by treating the causative factor in such cases. Medical treatment of the condition is usually done with the help of over-the-counter medicines, ointments and creams.
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms joint pain (arm), joint pain (shoulder) and skin rash including Tendinitis, Muscle strain, and Repetitive motion injuries. There are 45 conditions associated with joint pain (arm), joint pain (shoulder) and skin rash. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
Underarm heat rash and sweat rash. Another common armpit skin rash cause is sweat rash which is primarily caused by blocked sweat ducts that “trap perspiration under your skin. Symptoms range from superficial blisters to deep, red lumps ” [mayoclinic.org]. Underarm rash due to due to allergic reaction or contact dermatitis. Allergic reactions to various chemicals such as soap, shaving creams, body lotions, cosmetics, certain synthetic clothing material, fragrances, or detergents used to clean your clothes can cause rashes especially red itchy rashes.
Underarm rash or armpit rash can be unsightly, embarrassing, itchy, painful, cause a burning feeling or general discomfort. They affect male, female and children (baby, toddle or kids). Underarm rash due to due to allergic reaction or contact dermatitis. Allergic reactions to various chemicals such as soap, shaving creams, body lotions, cosmetics, certain synthetic clothing material, fragrances, or detergents used to clean your clothes can cause rashes especially red itchy rashes.
There are 30 conditions associated with itching or burning, skin blisters, skin open sore and skin rash. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
Rash is a symptom that causes the affected area of skin to turn red and blotchy and to swell. A rash may cause spots that are bumpy, scaly, flaky, or filled with pus. Rashes can vary in location, pattern and extent and may occur in any area of the body. Contact dermatitis (skin inflammation) is caused by an adverse reaction to something that touches your skin, including chemicals found in a detergent, soap, or fragrance. You may develop a rash under your arm when wearing a shirt that was washed with a particular detergent or treated with a chemical.