(remembering Ockham’s Razor). Sic is a Latin word meaning “thus”, “so”, “as such”, or “in such a manner”. It is used when writing quoted material to indicate that an incorrect or unusual spelling, phrase, punctuation or meaning in the quote has been reproduced verbatim from the original and is not a transcription error. Sic in square brackets is an editing term used with quotations or excerpts. It means “that’s really how it appears in the original.”. It is used to point out a grammatical error, misspelling, misstatement of fact, or, as above, the unconventional spelling of a name.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: abbreviation (Noun). A shortened or contracted form of a word or phrase, used to represent the whole: Dr. abbreviation (Noun). The act or result of shortening or reducing. abbreviation (Noun). One or more dashes through the stem of a note, dividing it respectively into quavers, semiquavers, demisemiquavers, or hemidemisemiquavers. A contraction is an abbreviation, but an abbreviation is not necessarily a contraction. However, normally, acronyms are regarded as a subgroup of abbreviations. Abbreviations can also be used to give a different context to the word itself, such as PIN Number.
The abbreviation cf. stands for the Latin word confer which means “compare.” It is primarily used in endnotes or footnotes to point the reader to works that offer an argument which contradicts or is otherwise different from the author’s argument. The abbreviation i.e. stands for id est, which translates literally as “that is.” Sometimes it might be more useful, however, to translate it as “what that means is” or “that is to say.” This abbreviation is used to clarify the preceding idea by restating it more simply or in different terms.
what does abbreviations mean well it means that if it is kilometer's or milliliter's in measure then it will be 200kilomiter and 00.2 millimetre. One of the most sex is one as well popular usages of Abbreviated words is LOL LOL Stands for L augh O ut L oud. Another is ROFL, which is R olling O n F loor, l aughing. You can abbreviate almost anything. Abbreviate means to Shorten.
there is a abbreviation for abbreviation it is abbr... and abbreviation means: The act or product of shortening.A shortened form of a word or phrase used chiefly in writing to … represent the complete form, such as Mass. for Massachusetts or USMC for United States Marine Corps. 2 people found this useful. One of the most sex is one as well popular usages of Abbreviated words is LOL LOL Stands for L augh O ut L oud. Another is ROFL, which is R olling O n F loor, l aughing. You can abbreviate almost anything. Abbreviate means to Shorten.
Another word for this is Acronym. It means to shorten about 3-5 words by only using the first Letters of each word, therefore shortening it. One of the most sex is one as well popular usages of Abbreviated words is LOL LOL Stands for L augh O ut L oud. Another is ROFL, which is R olling O n F loor, l aughing. You can abbreviate almost anything. Abbreviate means to Shorten.
ibid. and id. The abbreviation ibid. stands for the Latin word ibidem, which means “in the same place.” It is used in endnotes or footnotes when you cite the same source and page number(s) two or more times. If you cite the same source but a different page number, you can use ibid. The abbreviation i.e. stands for id est, which translates literally as “that is.” Sometimes it might be more useful, however, to translate it as “what that means is” or “that is to say.” This abbreviation is used to clarify the preceding idea by restating it more simply or in different terms.
Abbreviation. An abbreviation is a shortened form of a word or phrase. Usually, but not always, it consists of a letter or group of letters taken from the word or phrase. For example, the word abbreviation can itself be represented by the abbreviation abbr., abbrv. or abbrev. A contraction is an abbreviation, but an abbreviation is not necessarily a contraction. However, normally, acronyms are regarded as a subgroup of abbreviations. Abbreviations can also be used to give a different context to the word itself, such as PIN Number.
Simply knowing what an abbreviation stands for and how to translate the underlying Latin words does not necessarily tell you how the abbreviation is used in actual modern practice. These little remnants of Latin have had a long and colorful life separated from their original language and context. The abbreviation i.e. stands for id est, which translates literally as “that is.” Sometimes it might be more useful, however, to translate it as “what that means is” or “that is to say.” This abbreviation is used to clarify the preceding idea by restating it more simply or in different terms.
The noun ABBREVIATION has 2 senses: 1. a shortened form of a word or phrase. 2. shortening something by omitting parts of it. Familiarity information: ABBREVIATION used as a noun is rare. 