Causes. Contact dermatitis is caused by a substance you're exposed to that irritates your skin or triggers an allergic reaction. The substance could be one of thousands of known allergens and irritants. Some of these substances may cause both irritant contact dermatitis and allergic contact dermatiti
Dandruff. Cradle cap. That red, itchy rash with flaky scales could be seborrheic dermatitis, or seborrhea. It's a common skin disease that looks similar to psoriasis, eczema, or an allergic reaction. And it can appear on your body as well as your scalp. 
Two other forms of dermatitis are contact dermatitis (an inflammatory reaction to a specific substance) and seborrheic dermatitis (caused by overproduction of sebum or oils by the sebaceous glands). Seborrheic dermatitis, commonly called dandruff, is the most common form of dermatitis in adults. Atopic dermatitis most often manifests as itchy, dry scaly patches, usually on the cheeks, as well as on the scalp, forehead, and the rest of the face. In older children, the location of dermatitis shifts to the creases of the elbows and knees or other joint crevices.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Dermatitis is a common skin condition caused by inflammation of the skin. There are several different forms of dermatitis but all are caused by the skin reacting to allergens or irritants. Dermatitis is usually characterized by red, itchy skin that can become blistered and weepy. Seborrheic dermatitis. This condition affects skin areas with sebaceous glands and typically occurs across the face, nose, and inside of the ears. Other skin areas affected include the back, neck and chest. When the condition affects children, it is often termed cradle cap.
Dermatitis is an inflammation of the skin that can take several forms. The most common form is atopic dermatitis, seen most often in infants during the first year of life; this is sometimes referred to as eczema, dermatitis, or atopy. Atopic dermatitis most often manifests as itchy, dry scaly patches, usually on the cheeks, as well as on the scalp, forehead, and the rest of the face. In older children, the location of dermatitis shifts to the creases of the elbows and knees or other joint crevices. Atopic dermatitis usually afflicts children
Atopic dermatitis, seborrheic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, allergic contact eczema, etc. The signs and symptoms of eczema vary depending on the type of eczema. The skin can be red, itchy, appear as scaly patches on the body, or patches of skin may be crusted, scaling, and very itchy. The term atopic is from the Greek meaning strange.. The term dermatitis means inflammation of the skin. In atopic dermatitis, the skin becomes extremely itchy and inflamed, causing redness, swelling, vesicle formation (minute blisters), cracking, weeping, crusting, and scaling.
Atopic dermatitis or eczema. Atopic dermatitis, or eczema, causes the skin to itch, scale, swell, and sometimes blister. This type of eczema usually runs in families and is often associated with allergies, asthma, and stress.
Introduction. Dermatitis is a rash on the skin that develops due to inflammation. Dermatitis is usually characterized by an itchy red patch of skin, but can also include anything from skin lesions to scales and lichenification. Dermatitis can be caused by a variety of reasons. 
Dermatitis, also known as eczema, is inflammation of the skin. It is characterized by itchy, erythematous, vesicular, weeping, and crusting patches. 