The term steampunk ' s first known appearance was in 1987, though it now retroactively refers to many works of fiction created even as far back as the 1950s or 1960s. Kaja Foglio introduced the term Gaslight Romance, gaslamp fantasy, which John Clute and John Grant define as steampunk stories ... most commonly set in a romanticised, smoky, 19th-century London, as are Gaslight Romances.
Steampunk is a subgenre of science fiction and sometimes fantasy that incorporates technology and aesthetic designs inspired by 19th-century industrial steam-powered machinery. Kaja Foglio introduced the term Gaslight Romance, gaslamp fantasy, which John Clute and John Grant define as steampunk stories ... most commonly set in a romanticised, smoky, 19th-century London, as are Gaslight Romances.
-K.W. Jeter. The term Steampunk was first coined in 1987 by K. W. Jeter, the author of the novel Morlock Night. He used the term to describe a genre of speculative fiction in which steam, not electricity, drove technological advancements. Since then it has been used to describe an artistic and cultural movement. Jules Verne, one of the forefathers of steampunk. Personally, I think Victorian fantasies are going to be the next big thing, as long as we can come up with a fitting collective term for Powers, Blaylock and myself. Something based on the appropriate technology of the era; like steampunks, perhaps....
So what the hell is steampunk? The term itself comes from science fiction novels. It was allegedly coined by author Kevin Jeter as a way of distinguishing him and fellow tetro-tech sci-fi writers from future-loving cyberpunks like William Gibson. 
Steampunk is influenced by and often adopts the style of the 19th-century scientific romances of Jules Verne, H.G. Wells, and Mary Shelley. Several works of art and fiction significant to the development of the genre were produced before the genre had a name. Kaja Foglio introduced the term Gaslight Romance, gaslamp fantasy, which John Clute and John Grant define as steampunk stories ... most commonly set in a romanticised, smoky, 19th-century London, as are Gaslight Romances.
Steampunk may also incorporate additional elements from the genres of fantasy, horror, historical fiction, alternate history, or other branches of speculative fiction, making it often a hybrid genre. Kaja Foglio introduced the term Gaslight Romance, gaslamp fantasy, which John Clute and John Grant define as steampunk stories ... most commonly set in a romanticised, smoky, 19th-century London, as are Gaslight Romances.
The Deep Dive…20,000 Leagues or so…. The term “Steampunk” originated in the late 1980s with a cheeky letter to Locus Magazine from science fiction author K. W. Jeter. Jeter was trying to find an accurate description of works by himself (Morlock Night), Tim Powers (The Anubis Gates), and James Blaylock (Homunculus). While Jeter coined the word, it was William Gibson and Bruce Sterling that brought the genre attention with the book The Difference Engine (1992). Best known for their offerings in cyberpunk, Gibson and Sterling took their intimate integration of man and machine back to 1885.
Ask anyone who has written a Steampunk story and they'll admit to having read some or all of these authors. I have. The term Steampunk came about in the 1980's Until that time, the genre was called cyberpunk or just Victorian Fantasy. Writer K.W. Jeter was given credit for the Steampunk moniker. It was an apt description because of the steam powered engines developed during the Victorian Era and the manipulation that writers of the 1980's through today use to hype the history to include more and more fanciful inventions that pushed the genre. T he Invisible Man was published in 1897. A combination of horror and science fiction that hasn't lost its appeal even today. The first movie I saw of The Invisible Man was the with Claude Rains and Gloria Stewart.
Although the term “steampunk” was not coined until 1987, several works of fiction significant to the development of the genre were produced before that. For example, Mervyn Peake 's novel Titus Alone (1959) anticipated many of the tropes of steampunk. Steampunk is a subgenre of fantasy and speculative fiction that came into prominence in the 1980s and early 1990s.