An Eclectic Perspective in psychotherapy is one that combines aspects of two or more different approaches to meet the needs of a client. 
In some ways Eclecticism is reminiscent of Mannerism in that the term was used pejoratively for much of the period of its currency, although, unlike Mannerism, Eclecticism never amounted to a movement or constituted a specific style: it is characterized precisely by the fact that it was not a particular style. Eclecticism plays an important role in critical discussions and evaluations but is somehow distant from the actual forms of the artifacts to which it is applied, and its meaning is thus rather indistinct.
Eclecticism in architecture at the intersection of Rakoczi Rákóczi avenue and The Grand boulevard In. Budapest The hungarian capital is a uniquely unified image of the. world Eclecticism plays an important role in critical discussions and evaluations but is somehow distant from the actual forms of the artifacts to which it is applied, and its meaning is thus rather indistinct.
Eclecticism is a conceptual approach that does not hold rigidly to a single paradigm or set of assumptions, but instead draws upon multiple theories, styles, or ideas to gain complementary insights into a subject, or applies different theories in particular cases. Eclecticism plays an important role in critical discussions and evaluations but is somehow distant from the actual forms of the artifacts to which it is applied, and its meaning is thus rather indistinct.
eclecticism. 1. the use or advocacy of a method involving the selection of doctrines from various systems and their combination into a unified system of ideas. 2. such a system. — eclectic, n., adj. a style that intermixes features borrowed from other artists or differing schools; applied especially when the result is unsuccessful. — eclecticist, n. an international movement, most in vogue from 1820 until about 1930, characterized by almost total freedom of choice among historical styles of both overall composition and decoration in the design of public buildings, the freedom tempered by the intended use or location of the building.
Medical Definition of ECLECTICISM. 1. : a theory or practice (as of medicine or psychotherapy) that combines doctrines or methods (as therapeutic procedures) from diverse sources. 2. 
Full Definition of ECLECTIC. 1. : selecting what appears to be best in various doctrines, methods, or styles. 2. : composed of elements drawn from various sources; also: heterogeneous. — eclec·ti·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See eclectic defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. Examples of ECLECTIC. 1  The collection includes an eclectic mix of historical artifacts. 2  eclectic. 3  All around us, fishers galumphed past. 4  Her witty, mordant and splendidly vinegary observations were informed by broad and eclectic reading. 5  The polo crowd is eclectic and dangerously hagridden with narcissism and treachery, and that is the way they ...
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of eclectic is something that is made up of various sources or styles. An example of eclectic is the taste in music of a person who enjoys listening to country, hip hop, gospel and classical music. eclectic. adjective. 1  Selecting or employing individual elements from a variety of sources, systems, or styles: an eclectic taste in music; an eclectic approach to managing the economy.
Eclecticism. Eclecticism is a name given to a group of ancient philosophers who, from the existing philosophical beliefs, tried to select the doctrines that seemed to them most reasonable, and out of these constructed a new system (see Diogenes Laertius, 21). The name was first generally used in the first century BCE. 
For the 19th-century art movement known as eclecticism, see academic art. Eclecticism is a kind of mixed style in the fine arts : the borrowing of a variety of styles from different sources and combining them (Hume 1998, 5). Significantly, Eclecticism hardly ever constituted a specific style in art: it is characterized by the fact that it was not a particular style. 