It is also available in the form of glucomannan noodles. These contain no starch, carbohydrates, or calories. Health Benefits of Glucomannan (Konjac). #1-Regularity-The most common reason for the use of glucomannan fiber is to promote regularity. It has proven to be safe and effective for this purpose.
Konjac pasta can be boiled or cooked with vegetables, meat, or seafood. It can then be tossed with sauces, vinegar, hot salsa, or ingredients like pepper, onion, or garlic. To prepare Konjac pasta, simply dip it in water for 3-5 minutes, and then prepare it any way you like.
Referred to as Moyu or Juruo in China, and Konnyaku or Shirataki Noodles in Japan, Konjac foods are a popular health food in the Asian markets. Konjac foods-Shirataki noodles 1  .... are naturally water soluble fiber with no fat, sugar, starch, or protein.
Thanks to konjac's composition, all you'll find is fibre. At 4 per cent fibre, it's twice as much fibre as regular pasta which has only 2 per cent but on a par with wholemeal pasta at 5 per cent. In contrast, boiled cellophane noodles supply around 20 per cent carbs, 365 kilojoules per 100 grams and little fibre.
The most popular food thickener is the starch type thickener, such as cornstarch, potato starch. Konjac glucomannan is a natural, odorless soluble fiber that is found in the konjac plant. The konjac glucomanan is the most viscosity food gum in nature. It has about ten times the viscosity than the cornstarch.
Glucomannan is a soluble fiber extracted from the root of the konjac plant. While some people refer to glucomannan as a resistant starch, the reason for it’s use, whether in the form of an extract or as a food source, is the same as most other soluble fiber supplements such as psyllium husk.
The low carb thickener-Konjac flour. The most popular food thickener is the starch type thickener, such as cornstarch, potato starch. Konjac glucomannan is a natural, odorless soluble fiber that is found in the konjac plant. The konjac glucomanan is the most viscosity food gum in nature. It has about ten times the viscosity than the cornstarch.