A transgenic organism occurs when an organism is modified by inserting DNA from an organism of another species. Transgenic organisms are often developed for agricultural purposes. Kiwis, oranges and other fruits have been genetically modified to be resistant to certain diseases. A transgenic organism is an organism which has been modified by inserting the DNA of another species into it as an embryo.
CaMV promoter. When scientists use transgenic technology to put a new gene into a plant, they put in additional pieces of DNA to direct the activity of that gene. One of these pieces is the promoter that turns the gene on. Eating foreign DNA When scientists make a transgenic plant, they insert pieces of DNA that did not originally occur in that plant. Often these pieces of DNA come from entirely different species, such as viruses and bacteria.
5 CHAPTER-1: TRANSGENIC TECHNOLOGY Travis Abele Transgenesis is a relatively new technology in which the DNA of an organism is altered to produce a new and unnatural desired trait. The overall genetic pool of the organism is kept relatively the same, but a foreign gene is inserted into an embryo prior to birth. 
This process is also known as “genetic engineering.” Genes of one species can be modified, or genes can be transplanted from one species to another. Genetic engineering is made possible by recombinant DNA technology. Organisms that have altered genomes are known as transgenic. Most transgenic organisms are generated in the laboratory for research purposes. For example, “knock-out” mice are transgenic mice that have a particular gene of interest disabled.
Transgenic plants have been engineered for scientific research, to create new colours in plants, and to create different crops. In research, plants are engineered to help discover the functions of certain genes. One way to do this is to knock out the gene of interest and see what phenotype develops. GloFish, the first genetically modified animal to be sold as a pet. A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism).
A transgenic organism is an organism which has been modified with genetic material from another species. The genetic modification is accomplished by inserting DNA into an embryo with the assistance of a virus, a plasmid, or a gene gun. Kiwis, oranges and other fruits have been genetically modified to be resistant to certain diseases. A transgenic organism is an organism which has been modified by inserting the DNA of another species into it as an embryo.
Transgenic animals are animals (most commonly mice) that have had a foreign gene deliberately inserted into their genome. Such animals are most commonly created by the micro-injection of DNA into the pronuclei of a fertilised egg which is subsequently implanted into the oviduct of a pseudopregnant surrogate mother. A transgenic animal is one whose genome has been altered by the transfer of a gene or genes from another species or breed. Transgenic animals are routinely used in the laboratory as models in biomedical research.
A transgenic, or genetically modified, organism is one that has been altered through recombinant DNA technology, which involves either the combining of DNA from different genomes or the insertion of foreign DNA into a genome. 
A transgenic plant is one that contains a gene or genes which have been introduced artificially into the plant's genetic makeup using a set of several biotechnology techniques collectively known as recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology. Research using transgenic plants is an extremely valuable and powerful tool to help scientists learn about how plants function. The knowledge gained from this kind of research can be applied in many areas of plant science, not just in the creation of new crop varieties with novel traits.