The Boston Massacre happened because a lot of colonists began to throw rocks and snow balls at the Red Coats. One of the soldiers called for backup and more soldiers came. The leader of the group shouted Hold your fire! one of the men only heard Fire! thus making him think that he should shoot his gun. The Boston Massacre occured when a group of colonials were taunting and throwing rocks at a group of british soldiers in boston. The colonials present were drunk, and on … e of them walked up to a soldier and hit him with a club.
The soldiers thought there had been a command to fire, and they began firing on the crowd. Five men were killed in the riotous crowd that night, and one died two weeks later from the wounds. The British soldiers were then taken to court in Boston, with none other than John Adams as their lawyer! They were found innocent, then taken to a court in England, found guilty, and severely punished. The event was then publicized as a terrible massacre. Engraving of the massacre by Paul Revere, either plagiarized or borrowed with permission from a design by Henry Pelham. It was published under the title, The Fruits of Arbitrary Power, or the Bloody Massacre.. The engraving reads ...
The Boston Massacre occurred on March 5, 1770 when British soldiers in Boston opened fire on a group of American colonists killing five men. Townsend Acts. Prior to the Boston Massacre the British had instituted a number of new taxes on the American colonies including taxes on tea, glass, paper, paint, and lead. 
The Boston Massacre was a street fight that occurred on March 5, 1770, between a patriot mob, throwing snowballs, stones, and sticks, and a squad of British soldiers. Severa … l colonists were killed and this led to a campaign by speech-writers to rouse the ire of the citizenry. The Boston massacre was caused by the British when the riot was so loud that the British couldn't hear his allies so when the British fired a shot, the leader yelled HOLD YOU … R FIRE And when the troops couldn't hear, one of them heard one word only and that was fire.
For the baseball event nicknamed the Boston Massacre, see Yankees – Red Sox rivalry. The Boston Massacre, known as the Incident on King Street by the British, was an incident on March 5, 1770, in which British Army soldiers killed five male civilians and injured six others. 
On the cold, snowy night of March 5, 1770, a mob of American colonists gathers at the Customs House in Boston and begins taunting the British soldiers guarding the building. On the cold, snowy night of March 5, 1770, a mob of angry colonists gathers at the Customs House in Boston and begins tossing snowballs and rocks at the lone British soldier guarding the building. The protesters opposed the occupation of their city by British troops, who were sent to... Read More.
Civilians and soldiers clash in the Boston Massacre. On the cold, snowy night of March 5, 1770, a mob of angry colonists gathers at the Customs House in Boston and begins tossing snowballs and rocks at the lone British soldier guarding the building. The protesters opposed the occupation of their city by British troops, who were sent to... Read More.
On March 5, 1770 there was a party in Boston. Many people got drunk at this party so a British soldier was doing his duty on patrol, ensuring no one got violent. As he was walking around a building, a man came out and began harassing him. The soldier tried to defend himself and pushed the man off. The event was then publicized as a terrible massacre. Engraving of the massacre by Paul Revere, either plagiarized or borrowed with permission from a design by Henry Pelham. It was published under the title, The Fruits of Arbitrary Power, or the Bloody Massacre.. The engraving reads ...
Report Abuse. On the cold, snowy night of March 5, 1770, a mob of American colonists gathers at the Customs House in Boston and begins taunting the British soldiers guarding the building. On March 5, 1770 a british soldier was standing guard and had gotten into a fight with a colonist. There was a group of colonists that were talking about the british and were mad about all the taxes.