Registration for spring 2016 is now open! Log on to your GO account (go.spcc.edu) by clicking on “SPCC GO!” directly above to register for your spring classes. If you don’t know what to register for, please meet with your advisor, or come by the Advising Center on the Monroe or Polkton Campus. You can also email or call the Advising Center for assistance (advising@students.spcc.edu, 704.290.5213).
You must keep a copy of your SPCC Plan at your facility, if you operate the Aboveground Storage Tank (AST) facility more than four hours a day. If you operate the Above ground Storage Tank (AST) site less than four hours a day you may keep your SPCC Plan at the nearest field office. The EPA periodically performs on-site inspections to assure compliance with the SPCC Plan regulations. Facilities are now required to submit information if in a 12 month period the site has had two or more releases of over 42 gallons or a single release of more than 1,000 gallons.
An SPCC Plan is unique to each facility, describing the particular configuration of the site 's Aboveground Storage Tanks (ASTs) and even the site's Underground Storage Tanks (USTs) for sites exceeding 42,000 gallon capacity. The EPA periodically performs on-site inspections to assure compliance with the SPCC Plan regulations. Facilities are now required to submit information if in a 12 month period the site has had two or more releases of over 42 gallons or a single release of more than 1,000 gallons.
DE-MYSTIFYING THE OIL SPCC RULES Presented at the 2004 College and University Hazardous Waste Conference, Virginia Tech Prepared by: Charlotte Perry, Project Scientist and Karen Townsend, P.E., Project Manager Woodard & Curran 41 Hutchins Drive Portland, ME 04102 Tel. The d finition states that oil-filled electrical, operating, or manufacturing equipment is not a bulk storage container. College and University Hazardous Waste Conference 3 of 6 Woodard & Curran De-Mystifying the Oil SPCC Rules August 8, 2004 Karen Townsend and Charlotte Perry-Authors.
11 * Memorandum of understanding between secretary of transportation and Administrator of EPA Nov. 24, 1971. 36 FR 24080 and a summary is found in Appendix A of the SPCC rule These facilities are subject to authority and control of U.S. Department of Transportation*DOT-YES! EPA-NO! Examples of Transportation-Related Facilities. 
Many portions of the SPCC plan are flexible. However, if you have a reportable spill, you can not qualify for some of the flexible provision of the standard. A reportable spill is a single discharge of more than 1,000 gallons, or two discharges of more than 42 gallons in one year. If the oil reaches navigable water, it is reportable in any quantity significant enough to cause sheen on the water (i.e., one drop of oil). General requirements of the SPCC plan:
12, 2006, the amended role now will allow a facility that has 10,000 gallons or less of above ground oil storage the option of self-certifying the facility's. plan instead of having the plan reviewed and certified by a licensed professional engineer as currently required. 
Required Contents of an SPCC Plan. This is a general summary of the requirements for a typical cotton gin that has only press pump tanks and possibly small above ground fuel tanks. There are additional requirements – especially if you have fuel operations or underground storage tanks. A reportable spill is a single discharge of more than 1,000 gallons, or two discharges of more than 42 gallons in one year. If the oil reaches navigable water, it is reportable in any quantity significant enough to cause sheen on the water (i.e., one drop of oil). General requirements of the SPCC plan:
The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) is a charity campaigning and working in child protection in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Scotland and the Channel Islands. The London SPCC was renamed the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children in 1889, because by then it had branches across Great Britain and Ireland. The NSPCC was granted its Royal Charter in 1895, when Queen Victoria became its first Royal Patron.