There are three main types of blood cells in the human body. These are the red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. The red blood cells are also known as erythrocytes, white blood cells as leukocytes, and platelets as thrombocytes. Red blood cells are the most common type of blood cell, making up about 45% of the blood cells.
The 3 main cell types in human blood are erythrocytes (red blood cells), leukocytes (white blood cells), and thrombocytes (platelets). There are several different types and sub-types of white blood  cells. The three main types are granulocytes, monocytes, and  lymphocytes, and each of these types have sever … al sub-types under  them.
the three types of white blood cells are lymphocytes which produces a chemical called antibodies, to destroy the bacteria. The second type is antitoxins and they neutralise th … e poisons that the bacteria are making. Another type is phagocytes which engulf (eat) the bacteria into the cytoplasm and kill them. There are several different types and sub-types of white blood  cells. The three main types are granulocytes, monocytes, and  lymphocytes, and each of these types have sever … al sub-types under  them.
There are three types of blood cells in the human body, but only one type of red blood cell. Red cells, or erythrocytes, are relatively large microscopic cells without nuclei … . In this latter trait, they are similar to the primitive prokaryotic cells of bacteria. 
1 Red blood cells carry oxygen. 2  Of the 3 types of blood cells, red blood cells are the most plentiful. 3  In fact, a healthy adult has about 35 trillion of them. 4  The body creates these cells at a rate of about 2.4 million a second, and they each have a life span of about 120 days. Blood is made mostly of plasma, but 3 main types of blood cells circulate with the plasma: 1  Platelets help the blood to clot. 2  Clotting stops the blood from flowing out of the body when a vein or artery is broken. 3  Platelets are also called thrombocytes. 4 
Three types of blood cells, I suppose, would be red blood cells (erythrocytes), white blood cells (leukocytes), and platelets. Red blood cells are the main oxygen carriers i … n the circulatory system. They do so by holding large amounts of hemoglobin within them. The oxygen binds to the hemoglobin. There are several different types and sub-types of white blood  cells. The three main types are granulocytes, monocytes, and  lymphocytes, and each of these types have sever … al sub-types under  them.
1 Platelets are also called thrombocytes. 2  Red blood cells carry oxygen. 3  Of the 3 types of blood cells, red blood cells are the most plentiful. 4  In fact, a healthy adult has about 35 trillion of them. 5  The body creates these cells at a rate of about 2.4 million a second, and they each have a life span of about 120 days. Blood is made mostly of plasma, but 3 main types of blood cells circulate with the plasma: 1  Platelets help the blood to clot. 2  Clotting stops the blood from flowing out of the body when a vein or artery is broken. 3  Platelets are also called thrombocytes. 4
Best Answer: Platelets, which help the blood to clot. Clotting stops the blood from flowing out of the body when a vein or artery is broken. Platelets are also called thrombocytes. Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. Of the 3 types of blood cells, red blood cells are the most plentiful. In fact, a healthy adult has about 35 trillion of them. The body creates these cells at a rate of about 2.4 million a second, and they each have a life span of about 120 day
Whole blood consists of 3 types of blood cells, suspended in a liquid called plasma. Blood circulates through the arteries and veins with each of the blood cell types -- red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets -- performing different functions throughout the body. White Blood Cells. White blood cells, also called leukocytes, are much fewer in number than red blood cells. There are 5 different types of white blood cells that work together to protect the body by attacking foreign invaders, including bacteria, viruses and tumors.
Blood cancers affect the production and function of your blood cells. Most of these cancers start in your bone marrow where blood is produced. Stem cells in your bone marrow mature and develop into three types of blood cells: red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets. In most blood cancers, the normal blood cell development process is interrupted by uncontrolled growth of an abnormal type of blood cell. There are three main types of blood cancers: Leukemia, a type of cancer found in your blood and bone marrow, is caused by the rapid production of abnormal white