Orzo is the Italian word for “ barley .” In Italy, the word can of course refer to the grain itself, but might also describe a beverage made from roasted barley or a wheat-based pasta that looks like barley. it is the only grain that is also a complete protein. orzo is a pasta, so it has the same nutritional benefits and downfalls as such. if you have a choice, whole grain, whole wheat, multi-grain options are much better. not only do they add more depth of flavor, but they are also more healthy for you.
1 Orzo (pasta) , a rice-shaped pasta also known as risoni. 2  Orzo, the Italian name for the cereal grain barley (Hordeum vulgare). 3  Caffe caffè'd (orzo coffee of), barley a roasted grain beverage often simply called orzo In.  europe Orzo may refer to: 1  Orzo (pasta) , a rice-shaped pasta also known as risoni. 2  Orzo, the Italian name for the cereal grain barley (Hordeum vulgare).
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Orzo pasta is a type of pasta which is made in the shape of a grain of rice. It is often about rice-sized, as well. This pasta is very versatile, and it can be used in a range of recipes, with many people consuming orzo in soups. The word orzo is Italian for “ barley ,” and a reference to the size and shape of the pasta. You can also see orzo called kritharaki, manestra, rosa marina, reiskornpasta, or pasta gallo pion.
Orzo (. [ˈɔrdzo] , Italian for  barley , from Latin hordeum), also risoni ([riˈsoːni] , big rice), is a form of short-cut pasta, shaped like a large grain of rice. Orzo can be served alone, as a soup accompaniment, as part of a salad or pilaf or giouvetsi or baked in a casserole
Dr. Gourmet Says.... Orzo is indeed the Italian word for barley, but the orzo recipe you mention is for the barley shaped pasta known as orzo. With many pastas it is the shape that became the suggestion for the name. Orzo is a smallish pasta about the size and shape of barley. Similarly, riso is the shape of rice, farfalle is the shape of bow ties, pappardelle resembles paper, etc..
Directions. Simmer 1 cup orzo in a saucepan with 2 1/2 cups water, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 1 teaspoon dried mint, 1 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon paprika and 2 strips lemon zest, stirring occasionally, until the orzo is tender, 12 to 15 minutes. Let cool slightly. Stir in 2 chopped scallions, the juice of 1 lemon, and salt to taste. Easy. Simmer 1 cup orzo in a saucepan with 2 1/2 cups water, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 1 teaspoon dried mint, 1 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon paprika and 2 strips lemon zest, stirring occasionally, until the orzo is tender, 12 to 15 minutes.
The name is Italian and means barley, because orzo used to be made from it rather than the wheat varieties used today. It’s terrific in soups and you can use it as a side or cooked into all kinds of dishes. Orzo my new favorite and I use it in tons of dishes. I actually have two NEW favorite recipes from my new book Quick & Kosher Meals in Minutes: Orzo with Feta and Basil is delish as a side dish for tuna steak (or at any milchig meal). Italian Wedding Soup will be your new Friday night swap for classic chicken soup.