Room Temperature for Baby. Some new parents wonder what room temperature for baby is safe and comfortable. Experts recommend maintaining a room temperature between 65 to 74⁰F, which can be monitored more easily with a room thermometer. Maintaining a comfortbale temperature for your baby's room can help your little one's sound sleep. The ideal temperature for a baby's room at night is between 65-70⁰F. Like adults, they tend to sleep more soundly when the temperature is slightly cooler than normal. Infants fall into asleep much easier without blankets, so don't counteract the cool temperature with heavy blankets
But it's important not to overdo it. Overheating is associated with an increased risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). The safest temperature range for your baby to sleep in is actually between 16 degrees C and 20 degrees C (you can buy a thermometer to check the temperature is constant). What do people in warmer countries do? e.g. look at this babycentre web site for malaysia: http://www.babycenter.com.my/a419/cot-death-sids#ixzz3241JG3Ua It says Keep the room your baby sleeps in at a comfortable temperature (24 to 26 degrees C).. Are Malaysian babies different to UK babies? Makes no sense to me.
Ideal Nighttime Temperature. The ideal temperature for a baby's room at night is between 65-70⁰F. Like adults, they tend to sleep more soundly when the temperature is slightly cooler than normal. Infants fall into asleep much easier without blankets, so don't counteract the cool temperature with heavy blankets
You know how you sleep better when the room's a little cooler? Well, your bundle of joy is no different. Keep your baby's room warmer during the day and cooler at night, Dr. Greene suggests. The optimal temperature for infant sleep is between 65 and 70?F. If you don't have a thermostat you can control, leave the window slightly open or use a fan at night. The biggest lesson I learned when I became a mom: Nothing is predictable--except for a shortage of shut-eye. It's a given that babies get up a lot during the first three months, and it's important to have realistic expectations, says Harvey Karp, M.D., creator of the DVD and book, The Happiest Baby on the Block.
BabyCentre's health visitor. You can help your baby to sleep safe and sound by keeping the temperature in his room between 16 degrees C and 20 degrees C. A basic room thermometer will help you to keep an eye on the temperature. If your baby gets too hot, he may be more at risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), also known as cot death.
I have read that the acceptable temperature range for a newborn nursery is between 16 and 20 degrees Celcius. We have an Angel Care monitor in our baby's nursery used to track the temperature. We try to keep his room at about 19 degrees celcius althougfh some nights it reads 21 degrees celcius. Our baby is normally wrapped in a receiving blanket and lightly covered with another blanket. Well with the room at 19 degrees celcius and our baby in a baby grow a covered (not wrapped) in a blanket he does seem fine so I will monitor this and ensure he does not get to hot but currently he seems fine. posted 08/14/2012 by MarkZA.
You may want to place an electric fan in your baby’s bedroom. If you do, keep the fan well away from your baby’s cot and check regularly that his room is not too cold. If you think your baby is getting too hot, check his tummy. If it feels hot, or if he's sweaty, remove some layers. A basic room thermometer will help you to keep an eye on the temperature. If your baby gets too hot, he may be more at risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), also known as cot death.
RoomTemperature 1 of 4 Information Statement ROOM TEMPERATURE SIDS AND KIDS DOES NOT RECOMMEND A SPECIFIC ROOM TEMPERATURE FOR HEALTHY BABIES To Reduce the Risk of Sudden Unexpected Deaths in Infancy (SUDI), including SIDS and Fatal Sleep Accidents 1. Sleep baby on the back from birth, not on the tummy or side 2. 