Besides windows, birds may attack the side-view mirrors of cars and gazing balls-anything that creates a reflection. To prevent birds from attacking their reflections, you have to. . Options include covering the outside of the window or soaping up the outside of the window so the bird no longer sees its
Birds Attacking Windows. Not to be confused with window collisions, birds sometimes repeatedly and aggressively fly at reflective surfaces such as windows and mirrors. There are a few steps that you can take to reduce window attacks. Usually, however, the best course of action is to do nothing and wait.
If you cover up a window, the bird may search for the perceived rival until it finds another reflective surface. Some people have reported robins attacking as many as 15 windows on both the first and second stories of homes. The best course of action is to be patient and wait for the breeding season to end.
How to Stop Bird Window Attacks. Many of the best ways to stop birds from attacking windows are the same methods used to prevent bird window collisions. The key is to break up the reflection that the bird sees so it does not feel threatened by a non-existent competitor. Options include: 1  Decals placed inside or outside the window.
Cars have many reflective surfaces, such as side mirrors, bumpers, windows, and chrome grills. If a bird is attacking your car, you can try to eliminate the reflection. Place opaque plastic grocery bags over side mirrors and cover other reflective surfaces with tarps or sheets of opaque plastic.
First, you need to know why they do this. Cardinals and Robins are very territorial birds. When birds see another of the same species in its breeding or feeding territory, it instinctively attacks the other bird. Your house or cars windows act as mirrors to the birds.
Why Birds Attack Windows. Some bird species are very aggressive and territorial, and during the breeding season when they notice their reflection in a window, mirror, chrome bumper or similar shiny surface, they assume it is a rival bird and will attack the reflection in an attempt to drive it away.