1 Place artichokes in a large baking pan and fill bottom of pan with 1/2 to 1 inch of water. 2  Drizzle olive oil over top of stuffed artichokes and cover tightly with heavy duty foil. 3  Cook on 375 degrees for approximately 60-80 minutes (depending on size of artichoke) or until leave comes out easily. 1 Rinse artichokes well, tugging leaves outward to loosen slightly for stuffing. 2  Trim off stems so artichokes sit on a flat surface. 3  Trim off the pointed tips of each leaf. 4  Set aside. 5  In a large bowl combine bread crumbs, cheese, parsley, garlic salt, and pepper.
Leave the artichokes in the lemon water. while you prepare the stuffing. To make the stuffing: You can use packaged seasoned bread crumbs or use the recipe below. Place the bread crumbs, onion, garlic, and Parmesan in a bowl. Put the salami and provolone in a food processor and process until finely. chopped. Artichokes are done when the leaves pull off easily.Microwaving Artichokes: Place trimmed artichokes stem up in a deep microwave-safe bowl. Add 1-2 inches of water and cover bowl with plastic wrap. Cook on high 7-10 minutes for medium artichokes and 12-15 minutes for jumbo artichokes.
1 Continue this step with remaining artichokes. 2  Place artichokes in a large baking pan and fill bottom of pan with 1/2 to 1 inch of water. 3  Drizzle olive oil over top of stuffed artichokes and cover tightly with heavy duty foil. 1 Rinse artichokes well, tugging leaves outward to loosen slightly for stuffing. 2  Trim off stems so artichokes sit on a flat surface. 3  Trim off the pointed tips of each leaf. 4  Set aside. 5  In a large bowl combine bread crumbs, cheese, parsley, garlic salt, and pepper.
1 Drizzle olive oil over the Artichoke leaves, and then spoon generous amounts of the stuffing mixture into each leaf. 2  Once stuffed, place Artichokes in a steamer and steam for 30 to 40 minutes until the leaves are tender. 3  To finish, drizzle garlic butter over the Artichoke and add Parmesan cheese to taste. Directions. 1  In a large bowl, add the breadcrumbs, chopped garlic and Parmesan cheese. 2  Lightly mix these ingredients together. 3  This will be used as the stuffing for the artichokes. 4  Gently open up the leaves of the Artichoke.
-Choose artichokes with tight leaves. -To stuff the artichoke, it is unnecessary to remove the choke. Just spread the leaves apart and add your stuffing. -You can prepare the stuffing a day ahead. Minced garlic and chopped flat leaf parsley can be time consuming. Get those two parts ready ahead of time
1 Press about 1/2 cup of stuffing into each artichoke. 2  Tightly pack stuffed artichokes together in a large heavy saucepan or Dutch oven. 3  Add enough water to reach half way up artichokes and add 3 tablespoons oil. 1 Holding artichoke firmly by base, firmly rap the top of it on a hard surface; this will open it so it can be stuffed. 2  In a medium bowl combine bread cubes, garlic, parsley, Romano cheese, oregano, 2 tablespoons vegetable oil, salt and pepper; mix well. 3 
1 In a medium bowl combine bread cubes, garlic, parsley, Romano cheese, oregano, 2 tablespoons vegetable oil, salt and pepper; mix well. 2  Press about 1/2 cup of stuffing into each artichoke. 3  Tightly pack stuffed artichokes together in a large heavy saucepan or Dutch oven. 1 Holding artichoke firmly by base, firmly rap the top of it on a hard surface; this will open it so it can be stuffed. 2  In a medium bowl combine bread cubes, garlic, parsley, Romano cheese, oregano, 2 tablespoons vegetable oil, salt and pepper; mix well. 3
1 This will be used as the stuffing for the artichokes. 2  Gently open up the leaves of the Artichoke. 3  Drizzle olive oil over the Artichoke leaves, and then spoon generous amounts of the stuffing mixture into each leaf. 4  Once stuffed, place Artichokes in a steamer and steam for 30 to 40 minutes until the leaves are tender. Directions. 1  In a large bowl, add the breadcrumbs, chopped garlic and Parmesan cheese. 2  Lightly mix these ingredients together. 3  This will be used as the stuffing for the artichokes. 4
Steam for 30 minutes until artichoke bottom is tender (test with a fork) or when leaves are softened. Remove artichoke and drain water completely. Depending on your stuffing/filling recipe, you may want to cool the artichoke first, either in room temperature or in the refrigerator. Steam artichoke before stuffing. Stand artichoke upright in a pot filled with 2 water. Add a pinch of salt and/or a few drops of lemon juice, if desired. Bring water to a boil and then turn heat down to low. Cover, and steam. Check pot water level every 10 minutes when steaming, refill if needed.