It is possible, however, that oncogenic stress and DNA damage feed into p53 independently (Fig. 1). Indeed, the authors observed that acute K-Ras activation in vitro was not sufficient to activate the DDR, whereas it did result in upregulation of p53 target genes.
Here we present a structure/function analysis of-catenin in oncogenic transformation of CEF, in transcriptional activation of reporter constructs, and activation of the known LEF/TCF targets c-Myc and cyclin D1. We also identify inositol hexakisphosphate kinase 2 (IK6P2) as a novel target of LEF-1.
Oncogenic transformation. Oncogenic transformation is a complex multistep process, and the precise number of alterations required is still an on-going debate. Nevertheless, it is widely accepted that, in most cancer s, multiple hits contribute to the final tumor igenic phenotype.
The abnormal FIG-ROS fusion protein has constitutively active kinase activity that causes oncogenic transformation (a transformation from normal cells to cancer cells). Chromosomal inversion s: reversing the orientation of a chromosomal segment.
The constructs then test primarily the roles of-catenin transactivation domains in oncogenic transformation. Expression of these constructs was confirmed by Western blot, using an anti-HA antibody and an anti-TCF antibody (Figure 3). The transforming activities of these constructs are summarized in Table 1.
[11] investigated the role of the specific ERKs in cellular proliferation and Ras-induced oncogenic transformation-processes in which total ERK signaling has well-established roles.
Considering the fact that one of the two oncogenes required to transform normal rat cells, other than Ras, (e.g. Myc, adenovirus E1A, p53 mutants or SV40 T antigen) has an immortalizing function [6] , immortalization is a crucial prerequisite for malignant transformation.
Oncogenic stress-induced senescence and transformation of normal human cells. Strong mitogenic signals, exemplified by the overexpression of activated Ras, are also stresses that induce senescence [18] .
The implication of these studies is that p53-dependent tumor suppression in response to oncogenic stress acts through the DDR. An alternative view, also supported by compelling evidence, suggests that the acute response to DNA damage is not the critical tumor suppressive function of p53.
Oncogenic-catenin is translocated into the nucleus where it associates with LEF/TCF proteins to form a transcriptional activator (Morin, 1999; Polakis, 1999). The deletions and chimeric constructs analysed in this study single out a few distinct domains of-catenin as important in transformation.