What should baby boomers know about Hepatitis C? Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease that results from infection with the Hepatitis C virus. Some people who get infected with Hepatitis C are able to clear, or get rid of, the virus, but most people who get infected develop a chronic, or lifelong, infection. Why do baby boomers have such high rates of Hepatitis C? The reason that baby boomers have high rates of Hepatitis C is not completely understood. Most boomers are believed to have become infected in the 1970s and 1980s when rates of Hepatitis C were the highest.
Reviewed by Louise Chang, MD. Aug. 16, 2012 -- Effective immediately, all U.S. baby boomers should get a one-time blood test for the hepatitis C virus, the CDC says. Three-quarters of all hepatitis C infections and three-quarters of hepatitis C deaths occur in baby boomers, CDC Director Thomas R. Frieden, MD, MPH, said today during a conference call with reporters.
Why baby boomers should worry about hep C. Like many hepatitis C patients, Anthony Lo Russo, 64, lived with the virus for years before he knew he had it. Even after a routine blood test flagged it in 1995, he eschewed hep C drugs because of their side effects. I felt fine, so I waited, Lo Russo said. 
Since people with Hepatitis C can live for decades without symptoms, many baby boomers are unknowingly living with an infection they got many years ago. Hepatitis C is primarily spread through contact with blood from an infected person. Why do baby boomers have such high rates of Hepatitis C? The reason that baby boomers have high rates of Hepatitis C is not completely understood. Most boomers are believed to have become infected in the 1970s and 1980s when rates of Hepatitis C were the highest.
Why Baby Boomers Should Be. Although anyone can get hepatitis C (HCV), more than 75% of adults infected are baby boomers, people born from 1945 to 1965. Because of the size of the baby boomer population, and because boomers are aging, Hep C infection is considered a silent, looming epidemic. The CDC calls it “an unrecognized health crisis in the United States.” That’s why the CDC and other health officials recommend one-time Hep C testing for all baby boomers.
Baby boomers are five times more likely to have Hepatitis C than other adult Americans.. The new recommendations strengthen existing guidelines that state that all people at high risk for hepatitis C should be tested. While we continue to recommend testing for high-risk individuals, baby boomers are now added to the list, Frieden says. Three-quarters of all hepatitis C infections and three-quarters of hepatitis C deaths occur in baby boomers, CDC Director Thomas R. Frieden, MD, MPH, said today during a conference call with reporters.
It is also the leading cause of liver transplants in the U.S. The CDC says one-time testing of all baby boomers for the hepatitis C virus could identify more than 800,000 people infected with the virus, allow for early treatment to prevent liver disease, and save more than 120,000 lives. The hepatitis C virus is spread through exposure to infected blood. The most common means of infection is through sharing of needles or other equipment used to inject drugs. Researchers say most baby boomers were likely infected with hepatitis C when they were in their teens or 20s.
Most people with Hepatitis C don’t know they are infected.• Baby boomers are five times more likely to have Hepatitis C.• Liver disease, liver cancer, and deaths from Hepatitis C are on the rise. Why do baby boomers have such high rates of Hepatitis C? The reason that baby boomers have high rates of Hepatitis C is not completely understood. Most boomers are believed to have become infected in the 1970s and 1980s when rates of Hepatitis C were the highest.
Tested for Hepatitis C. Although anyone can get hepatitis C (HCV), more than 75% of adults infected are baby boomers, people born from 1945 to 1965. The reasons for this are not well understood. Because of the size of the baby boomer population, and because boomers are aging, Hep C infection is considered a silent, looming epidemic. The CDC calls it “an unrecognized health crisis in the United States.” That’s why the CDC and other health officials recommend one-time Hep C testing for all baby boomers.
Many baby boomers who find out they have hepatitis C don’t know how or when they were infected. Diagnosis is often missed because about 80 percent of people who are infected don’t develop any symptoms. When they do appear, symptoms include: 1  Fever. 2  Fatigue. 3  Decreased appetite. 4  Nausea. 5  Vomiting. 6  Abdominal pain. 7  Dark urine. 