Finally, in 1954 it became the capital of independent North Vietnam and in 1976, it became the capital of unified Vietnam. Geography. The city of Hanoi is located on the western bank of the Red River. It is located 85 kms inland from the South China Sea. 1 The city is served by the Noi Bai International airport, which is located 35 kms to the north of the city. 2  Regular flights are available to a number of destinations in Asia. 3  Hanoi is connected by train to a number of places in Vietnam and to Nanning, China.
The map shows a city map of Hanoi with expressways, main roads and streets, zoom out to find the location of Noi Bai International Airport (IATA code: HAN). North Vietnam's major airport is situated in a distance of about 27 km (17 mi) by road (via Vo Võ Nguyen Nguyên) giap giáp Rd'north of hanoi. s city center The city is located in the Red River Delta, in the northern part of the country, about 100 km inland west from the coast of South China Sea. Hanoi means the hinterland between the rivers (Ha: river, Noi: interior).
The country is bordered by China to the north, Laos to the northwest, Cambodia to the southwest, and Malaysia across the South China Sea to the southeast. Its capital city has been Hanoi since the reunification of North and South Vietnam in 1976. Vietnam (/ˌviːətˈnaːm/ ; Vietnamese: Việt Nam [viət˨ naem˧]. ), næm officially The Socialist republic Of (VIETNAM; Srv: Vietnamese cộng Hoa hòa xa xã Hội Chủ. ), nghĩa việt nam is the easternmost Country On the Indochina Peninsula. in southeast asia
Hanoi is served by Noi Bai International Airport, located in the Soc Son District, approximately 15 km north of Hanoi. The new international terminal (T2), designed and built by Japanese contractors, opened in January 2015 and is a big facelift for Noibai International Airport. Hanoi is 1,760 km (1,090 mi) north of Ho Chi Minh City and 120 km (75 mi) west of Hai Phong city. October 2010 officially marked 1000 years since the establishment of the city. The Hanoi Ceramic Mosaic Mural is a 4 km ceramic mosaic mural created to mark the occasion.
Its 2 major cities are the capital Hanoi in the north and Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon) in the south. Other major cities are the ancient capital of Hue in central Vietnam, the coastal cities of Danang and Haiphong, and Dalat in the central highlands. Vietnam is bordered on the north by China and to the west by Laos and Cambodia. To the east is the South China Sea (called Eastern Sea by the Vietnamese). The country's shape and size is often compared to a bamboo pole with loads at the end (north and south).
The city lies on the right bank of the Red River. Hanoi is 1,760 km (1,090 mi) north of Ho Chi Minh City and 120 km (75 mi) west of Hai Phong city. October 2010 officially marked 1000 years since the establishment of the city. The Hanoi Ceramic Mosaic Mural is a 4 km ceramic mosaic mural created to mark the occasion.
Hanoi is the capital of Northern Vietnam and keeps this role until now. The city is located on the right bank of the Red River and far about 1760 kilometers from Ho Chi Minh City. Hanoi features a warm humid subtropical climate with plentiful precipitation. In addition, Hanoi is considered one of the main cultural centers of Vietnam, where most Vietnamese dynasties have left their imprint.
Hanoi is located in northern region of Vietnam, situated in the Vietnam’s Red River delta, nearly 90 km (56 mi) away from the coastal area. Hanoi contains three basic kind of terrain, which are the delta area, the midland area and mountainous zone. Hanoi is 1,760 km (1,090 mi) north of Ho Chi Minh City and 120 km (75 mi) west of Hai Phong city. October 2010 officially marked 1000 years since the establishment of the city. The Hanoi Ceramic Mosaic Mural is a 4 km ceramic mosaic mural created to mark the occasion.