Dewatering equipment is designed to separate water from solids using force, including vacuum and centrifugal motion. Used widely in waste management, dewatering equipment can save money by reducing solids handling or disposal expenses that are charged on a unit weight basis.
A Dewatering System is a permanent well, drain, sump or other excavation constructed for the purpose of keeping the water table below a desired level as stated in Rule 5.2.19 of the Water Well Construction Rules (2 CCR 402-2) . In accordance with Rule 6.3 of the Water Well Construction Rules (2 CCR 402-2) (Rules) and the requirement of the State Engineer, Notice of Intent (Notice) must be provided before drilling any Test Hole that penetrates a confining layer and any Monitoring and Observation Hole or Dewatering Well.
Wellpoint dewatering is the most economical and widely employed dewatering system, especially where the water table does not have to be lowered too much (4,00 m - 4,50 m), although it is possible to achieve larger lowerings through special devices. 
The Deep Well System is also a versatile predrainage dewatering system which can pump high and low volumes of groundwater. Deep well systems are suitable for water-table or confined aquifers and will lower the water table 100 feet or more in a single lift without staging. Griffin Dewatering offers effective and innovative turn-key solutions to groundwater control problems using Deep Wells.
Wellpoint Dewatering is a simple yet efficient method of lowering the water table in excavations. A wellpoint dewatering system consists of a series of shallow wells, known as wellpoints, which are installed at a pre-determined depth and appropriate spacing around an excavation.
Dewatering. Dewatering is the removal of water from solid material or soil by wet classification, centrifugation, filtration, or similar solid-liquid separation processes, such as removal of residual liquid from a filter cake by a filter press as part of various industrial processes. On a construction site, this dewatering may be implemented before subsurface excavation for foundations, shoring, or cellar space to lower the water table. This frequently involves the use of submersible dewatering pumps, centrifugal pumps, eductors, or application of vacuum to well points.
The relative costs of dewatering equipment varies widely and is directly related to the processing rate. For smaller utilities who need to dewater sludge in batches, dewatering containers are an alternative that can be relatively inexpensive and simple when compared to other technologies on the market. In general, with a 1% sludge a dewatering box will process 1,000 gallons times the cu.yd. of the box. So, if the dewatering container is a 30 cu.yd. unit it will process 30,000 gallons per day. This number is lowered as the % solids increases.
Most dewatering filter presses are sometimes called plate-and-frame filters, but this term accurately describes only a certain style of filter plates in wide use during the mid-to late-1800s. The filter press can also be employed as a polishing filter intended to remove very small concentrations of solids from an influent stream. When used for polishing, the press size is chosen to provide optimal filtration area and hydraulic throughput.
Construction dewatering, unwatering, or water control are common terms used to describe removal or draining groundwater or surface water from a riverbed, construction site, caisson, or mine shaft, by pumping or evaporation. Deep wells work best in soils with a permeability of k = 10 m/s to 10 m/s; the amount of drawdown that a well can achieve is limited only by the size of the pump. Deep wells can be installed in a ring around an excavation to lower the water level and maintain a safe, dry site.