There are several famous people that have homes in the state of  Colorado. A few of the people are Ralph Lauren, Thalia, Jerry  Seinfeld, and Kevin Costner. 
Colorado breweries produce more barrels of beer annually than any other state, and most breweries offer tours of their facilities as well as beer tastings. Ideal for a romantic getaway, Colorado’s Western Slope near the towns of Palisade and Grand Junction is known as Colorado’s wine country, but you can plan a trip to almost any part of Colorado and find a wine trail to follow. The number of craft distilleries in Colorado seems to keep doubling.
Rosemary grilled buffalo at Laughing Ladies in Salida Buffalo is a Colorado staple, with a lean, moist and flavorful profile. Pair it with thick polenta, fried onions and poblano chili pesto butter and you’ve got a recipe for a one-of-a-kind Colorado dish at the Laughing Ladies, a neighborhood favorite in Salida. Blackberry truffle at Mouse’s Chocolates in Ouray We won’t tell if you eat more than one of these toothsome delights. The blackberry truffle, high in antioxidants, is encrusted with white, milk or dark Callebaut Belgian chocolate, famous for its premium cocoa beans, hint of vanilla and smooth texture. 9.
Arizona is famous for saguaro and prickly pear cactus, Navajo-Churro sheep and mesquite pod flour. The cacti are either dried and eaten as candy or their juices are boiled dow … n and used to flavor barbecue sauces and other dishes. The meat of the Navajo-Churro baby sheep is exceptionally sweet and flavorful. Food in Italy is very regional-- what's famous depends on where you are. The most famous export comes from Naples, and that is pizza. From the North there is polenta and panne … tone, from Sicily there's cannoli.
Recipes from Colorado. jump to the recipes. Colorado means colored red in Spanish. You often see the term chile colorado in cooking which essentially means a spicy red sauce, and has nothing really to do with the state of Colorado. The state, however, is known for some food
10 Must-Eat Foods in Colorado. Colorado’s got the goods when it comes to succulent fruits, fresh produce and hearty local game, not to mention the creative masterminds behind exquisitely crafted bites that travelers and locals can’t get enough of. Blackberry truffle at Mouse’s Chocolates in Ouray We won’t tell if you eat more than one of these toothsome delights. The blackberry truffle, high in antioxidants, is encrusted with white, milk or dark Callebaut Belgian chocolate, famous for its premium cocoa beans, hint of vanilla and smooth texture. 9.
Check out these 10 Colorado must-eats and let us know if you uncover other super-local bites that you think we’ve left off the list at editor@colorado.com. Blackberry truffle at Mouse’s Chocolates in Ouray We won’t tell if you eat more than one of these toothsome delights. The blackberry truffle, high in antioxidants, is encrusted with white, milk or dark Callebaut Belgian chocolate, famous for its premium cocoa beans, hint of vanilla and smooth texture. 9.
Colorado does not have any famous foods but it is a healthy state so they eat green vegetable's. Game meats are popular in Colorado-elk, moose, boar, etc. Food in Italy is very regional-- what's famous depends on where you are. The most famous export comes from Naples, and that is pizza. From the North there is polenta and panne … tone, from Sicily there's cannoli.
Colorado is famous for its cuisine, It is with one of the towns known as the foodiest towns ,several food and beverage companies, also numerous acclaimed restaurants. 
Denver is known as the Napa Valley of beer to the local beer nerds (obviously the whole Coors Brewing Company of Golden, Colorado, had something to do with it). There are a good handful of breweries in and around Denver brewing up a bunch of wild flavors. There's more to Denver food culture than the Denver omelet. The city is home to some of the country's best Mexican food, microbreweries galore, and a handful of fast-casual chains (cough, Chipotle) got their start here.