© A Dictionary of Computing 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. verification and validation (V&V) A generic term for the complete range of checks that are performed on a system in order to increase confidence that the system is suitable for its intended purpose. 
Verification versus Validation. The term verification is often associated with the term validation and understood as a single concept of V&V. Validation is used to ensure that one is working the right problem, whereas verification is used to ensure that one has solved the problem right (Martin 1997). Confusion between verification and validation causes developers to take the wrong reference/baseline to define verification and validation actions and/or to address the wrong level of granularity (detail level for verification, global level for validation).
A set of validation requirements (as defined by the user), specifications, and regulations may then be used as a basis for qualifying a development flow or verification flow for a product, service, or system (or portion thereof, or set thereof). Sometimes they are even used interchangeably. The PMBOK guide, a standard adopted by IEEE, defines them as follows in its 4th edition:  1 Validation. 2  The assurance that a product, service, or system meets the needs of the customer and other identified stakeholders.
Validation includes activities such as requirements modelling, prototyping and user evaluation. In a traditional phased software lifecycle, verification is often taken to mean checking that the products of each phase satisfy the requirements of the previous phase. Validation is relegated to just the begining and ending of the project: requirements analysis and acceptance testing. Sometime in the 1990’s, I drafted a frequently asked question list for NASA’s IV&V facility. Here’s what I wrote on the meaning of the terms “validation” and “verification”: The terms Verification and Validation are commonly used in software engineering to mean two different types of analysis.
System Verification. System Verification is a set of actions used to check the correctness of any element, such as a system element, a system, a document, a service, a task, a requirement, etc. These types of actions are planned and carried out throughout the life cycle of the system. Confusion between verification and validation causes developers to take the wrong reference/baseline to define verification and validation actions and/or to address the wrong level of granularity (detail level for verification, global level for validation).
Verification and validation are independent procedures that are used together for checking that a product, service, or system meets requirements and specifications and that it fulfills its intended purpose. These are critical components of a quality management system such as ISO 9000. The words verification and validation are sometimes preceded with independent, indicating that the verification and validation is to be performed by a disinterested third party. Sometimes they are even used interchangeably. The PMBOK guide, a standard adopted by IEEE, defines them as follows in its 4th edition:  1 Validation. 2  The assurance that a product, service, or system meets the needs of the customer and other identified stakeholders.
HACCP verification is defined as those activities, other than monitoring, that establish the validity of the HACCP plan and ensure that the HACCP system is operating according to the plan. Verification is done to determine: that the HACCP plan is being implemented properly; 
In software project management, software testing, and software engineering, verification and validation (V&V) is the process of checking that a software system meets specifications and that it fulfills its intended purpose. It may also be referred to as software quality control. Definitions [edit]. Validation checks that the product design satisfies or fits the intended use (high-level checking), i.e., the software meets the user requirements. This is done through dynamic testing and other forms of review. Verification and validation are not the same thing, although they are often confused