Different Types of Blood Cells and Their Roles in the Human Body Blood is a mixture of two things: cells and plasma. The heart pumps blood through the arteries, capillaries and veins to provide oxygen and nutrients to every cell of the body. The blood also carries away waste products. This group of cells has the potential to form any of the different types of blood cells and also to reproduce itself. This cell then forms committed stem cells that will form specific types of blood cells. Red blood cells (RBCs), also known as erythrocytes, are by far the most abundant cells in the blood.
Whole blood consists of 3 types of blood cells, suspended in a liquid called plasma. Blood circulates through the arteries and veins with each of the blood cell types -- red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets -- performing different functions throughout the body. White Blood Cells. White blood cells, also called leukocytes, are much fewer in number than red blood cells. There are 5 different types of white blood cells that work together to protect the body by attacking foreign invaders, including bacteria, viruses and tumors. The most common type of white blood cells are called neutrophils
The process by which the body produces blood is called hematopoiesis. All blood cells (RBCs, WBCs and platelets) come from the same type of cell, called the pluripotential hematopoietic stem cell. This group of cells has the potential to form any of the different types of blood cells and also to reproduce itself. This cell then forms committed stem cells that will form specific types of blood cells. Red blood cells (RBCs), also known as erythrocytes, are by far the most abundant cells in the blood.
White blood cells protect the body from infection. They are much fewer in number than red blood cells, accounting for about 1 percent of your blood. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count. 
2. Blood Cells. From transporting oxygen throughout the body to fighting infection, cells of the blood are vital to life. The three major types of cells in the blood are red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Red blood cells determine blood type and are also responsible for transporting oxygen to cells. White blood cells are immune system cells that destroy pathogens and provide immunity. 
Types of Blood cells. They are broadly of 3 types of blood cells like. 1. Red blood cells (R.B.C) / Red blood corposcules. 2. White blood cells. 3. Platelets/ thrombocytes. Red blood cells: These are cells responsible for reddish color of the blood. They are very high in concentration to other b
Red Blood Cell Transfusions. Red blood cells are the most commonly transfused part of the blood. These cells carry oxygen from the lungs to your body's organs and tissues. They also help your body get rid of carbon dioxide and other waste products. You may need a transfusion of red blood cells if you've lost blood due to an injury or surgery. 
Platelets, or thrombocytes or yellow blood cells, are very small, irregularly shaped clear cell fragments (i.e. cells that do not have a nucleus containing DNA), 2–3 µm in diameter, which derive from fragmentation of precursor megakaryocytes. The average lifespan of a platelet is normally just 5 to 9 days. 
Red blood cells transport oxygen. Every second, 2-3 million RBCs are produced in the bone marrow and released into the circulation. Also known as erythrocytes, RBCs are the most common type of cell found in the blood, with each cubic millimeter of blood containing 4-6 million cells.