A lipid bilayer is a double layer membrane formed from phospholipids. Phospholipids are composed of a polar head group and non-polar fatty acid tails. The arrangement of the p … hospholipids makes the cell membrane permeable. 
Fluid Mosaic Model. A model of membrane structure; according to this model, membranes are composed of a double layer of phospholipids in which various proteins are embedded. The phospholipid bilayer is a somewhat fluid matrix that allows the movement of proteins within it. Phospholipid Bilayer. A double layer of phospholipids that forms the basis of all cellular membranes. The phospholipids heads, which are hydrophilic, face the water of extracellular fluid or the cytoplasm; the tails, which are hydrophobic, are buried in the middle of the bilayer.
Remember these key points: 1  Cell membranes or plasma membranes consist of a phospholipid bilayer with proteins embedded in the membrane. 2  Most of the functions of plasma membranes are handled by the proteins. 3  This arrangement of proteins and phospholipids is often called the fluid mosaic model for a cell membrane. 1. Cell membranes are based on lipid bilayer. Plasma membranes consist of a lipid bilayer with proteins embedded in the bilayer. The principle lipids are phospholipids. A phospholipid molecules has a hydrophilic head with a phosphate group as part of its structure and two hydrophobic tails. The hydrophobic tails consist of long hydrocarbon chains
A phospholipid is an amphipathic molecule, meaning is has both a hydrophilic region and a hydrophobic region. Fluid Mosaic Model: The membrane is a fluid structure with a “mosaic” of various proteins embedded in or attached to a double layer (bilayer) of phospholipids. The Fluidity of Membranes: Membranes are not static sheets of molecules locked rigidly in place
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells. The cell membranes of almost all living organisms and many viruses are made of a lipid bilayer, as are the membranes surrounding the cell nucleus and other sub-cellular structures. See Organelle. Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids.
The Actual Cell membrane has proteins embedded in the lipid bilayer. Embedded in the phospholipid bi-layer are a diverse set of proteins which do most of the important functions of the cell membrane. This idea is called the fluid mosaic model of the cell membrane. 1. Cell membranes are based on lipid bilayer. Plasma membranes consist of a lipid bilayer with proteins embedded in the bilayer. The principle lipids are phospholipids. A phospholipid molecules has a hydrophilic head with a phosphate group as part of its structure and two hydrophobic tails. The hydrophobic tails consist of long hydrocarbon chains
Lipid Bilayer Structure. The lipid bilayer is a universal component of all cell membranes. Its role is critical because its structural components provide the barrier that marks the boundaries of a cell. The structure is called a lipid bilayer because it is composed of two layers of fat cells organized in two sheets. 
1 Plasma Membrane-Membrane surrounding the cytoplasm that consists of a phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins; functions to regulate the entrance and exit of molecules from cell. Phospholipid Bilayer. A phospholipid consists of a polar portion, called the head, and 2 long fatty acids, the tail. A molecule is represented as a sphere with 2 long projections. When mixed with water, the heads are attracted to the polar water molecules.