1 Calico—cotton fabric with a small, all-over floral print. 2  Muslin —simple, cheap equal weft and warp plain weave fabric in white, cream or unbleached cotton and/or a very fine, light plain weave cotton fabric (sometimes called muslin gauze). 3  Muslin gauze—the very lightest, most open weave of muslin. In the US 1  : Calico—cotton fabric with a small, all-over floral print. 2  Muslin —simple, cheap equal weft and warp plain weave fabric in white, cream or unbleached cotton and/or a very fine, light plain weave cotton fabric (sometimes called muslin gauze). 3  Muslin gauze—the very lightest, most open weave of muslin. 4  Gauze —any very light fabric, .... 5  Che
Calico fabric was popular during the 1800's. It was a common cotton fabric often known as being used by the pioneers. It is referenced in the Little House on the Prairi … e books as being used for dresses for the girls. Today it is used for quilting and other homemaking crafts. Calico does not change the manufacturer's name for the fabric as all the jobbers do. The name of the manufacturer is not printed on the price ticket, but it's not a secret either. If it's important to you, the sales associate can find out.
Calico (in British usage, 1505, AmE muslin) is a plain-woven textile made from unbleached and often not fully processed cotton. It may contain unseparated husk parts, for example. The fabric is less coarse and thick than canvas or denim, but it is still very cheap owing to its unfinished and undyed appearance. In the US 1  : Calico—cotton fabric with a small, all-over floral print. 2  Muslin —simple, cheap equal weft and warp plain weave fabric in white, cream or unbleached cotton and/or a very fine, light plain weave cotton fabric (sometimes called muslin gauze). 3  Muslin gauze—the very lightest, most open weave of muslin. 4  Gauze —any very light fabric, .... 5  Che
Calico is a fabric that is extremely versatile and can be used in a wide range of products – skirts, dresses, bags, to a backdrop canvas for painting. It is perhaps one of the few fabrics that can be exploited according to one’s needs, and does not have to be used only in one specific way. Introduction. Calico cloth is unbleached and half-processed cotton, and is less coarse than denim. It has an unfinished appearance and was originally discovered and coined by the British during their reign and influence in India.
Calico originated in Kozhikode (also known as Calicut, from which the name of the textile came) in southwestern India during the 11th century. The cloth was known as cāliyan to the natives. In the US 1  : Calico—cotton fabric with a small, all-over floral print. 2  Muslin —simple, cheap equal weft and warp plain weave fabric in white, cream or unbleached cotton and/or a very fine, light plain weave cotton fabric (sometimes called muslin gauze). 3  Muslin gauze—the very lightest, most open weave of muslin. 4  Gauze —any very light fabric, .... 5  Che
Calico is often not fully processed and can sometimes contain unseparated husk parts. Although calico is not as heavy or dense as denim or canvas, for instance, it is still a relatively cheap fabric because of its unfinished and undyed appearance. Calico Characteristics. Calico is a coarse, lightweight fabric. A pattern is usually printed on one side of the fabric, either by discharge or resist printing. Calico is not necessarily colorfast, and colors may run or fade during washing. The original designs printed on calico were exquisite birds, trees and flowers, but modern calico will more often display a geometric design. 
'Calico' is a fabric made from unbleached, and often not fully processed, cotton. It may contain unseparated husk parts, for example. The fabric is less coarse and thick than canvas or denim, but owing to its unfinished and undyed appearance, it is still very cheap. Source(s): Inkyanswers.com-search engine. True calico is an inexpensively made cotton fabric, unbleached, etc. However, for many people calico usually refers to all printed cotton fabrics used for quilting. swbiblio · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Chintz (from the plural of chint) was originally glazed calico textiles, initially specifically those imported from India, printed with designs featuring flowers and other patterns in different colours, typically on a light plain background. 
Full Definition of CALICO. 1. a: cotton cloth imported from India b British: a plain white cotton fabric that is heavier than muslin c: any of various cheap cotton fabrics with figured patterns. 2. : a blotched or spotted animal; especially: one that is predominantly white with red and black patches. — calico adjective. 