Moderate: Depending on the fracture shape, usually screws, maybe a plate are used to reduce and stabilize the fracture. Most are placed in a cast or minimally an orthoboot, on crutches for 4-8 weeks. If torn ligaments are involved it may add a couple of weeks.
Answer: Well, it really varies for how long a fracture is going to take to heal depending on how bad the original fracture was and sometimes which body part.
If the fracture fragments do move out of place and the bones heal in that position, it is called a malunion.. Treatment for this is determined by how far out of place the bones are and how the stability of the ankle joint is affected.
Bimalleolar means that two of the three parts or malleoli of the ankle are broken. (Malleoli is plural for malleolus.). In most cases of bimalleolar fracture, the lateral malleolus and the medial malleolus are broken and the ankle is not stable.
Best Answer: More like 6-8 weeks. Rule of thumb: fractures take 4 weeks to heal. Halve that in a child and double it for lower-limb weightbearing bones.
Hi, I have a bimalleolar ankle fracture that has been surigically repaired with 2 x two inch long screws in medial malleous and 1 smaller screw in lateral malleous along with a plate for stability held by a further 5 screws along fibular/lateral malleous. This happend nearly 5 weeks ago.
It is resulting from 3 fractures in the ankle and lower leg area. ANSWER: Sounds ever so familiar; I had two screws placed into ankle following screwing/breaking my foot off my leg. Second surgery to have them removed. Injury on 5/30, back to work part time (3 days a week, as an office nurse) in early August.
I had ORIF on my left ankle 10 weeks ago for A BAD bimalleolar fracture (broke both ankle bones that stick out off and broke the small leg bone also).Have 1 plate and 11 screws to repair breaks. I have been weightbearing for about 4 weeks with boot with no crutches.
It takes at least 6 weeks for the broken bones to heal. It may take longer for the involved ligaments and tendons to heal. As mentioned above, your doctor will most likely monitor the bone healing with repeated x-rays. This is typically done more often during the first 6 weeks if surgery is not chosen.