Dimple and dimples redirect here. For other uses, see Dimple (disambiguation) . A dimple (also known as a gelasin) is a small natural indentation in the flesh on a part of the human body, most notably in the cheek or on the chin. 
The lower part of the vertabrae above the coccyx is the sacrum, and it is one bone that is made of 5 forged bones, causing an irregular flat bone. This causes the dimples. A sacral dimple is an indentation in the skin on the lower back that is present at the time of birth. The dimple is usually small, shallow and can be found above the buttocks. Researchers do not know what causes sacral dimples, but generally they are harmless and do not need any medical treatment. However, a sacral dimple can reveal a more serious abnormality involving the spine and/or spinal cord, such as spina bifida. Also known as Dimples of Venus. We all have dimples on our lower back/ above our butt because of our skeletal and muscular structure, not our genes. Everyone has them, but if you are overweight, or storing excess fat around that area, you may not be able to see them
A sacral dimple consists of an indentation, or pit, in the skin on the lower back, just above the crease between the buttocks. 
Most babies whose sacral dimples are within the crease between their buttocks are healthy. Dimples that are deep, large, above the crease, or associated with an overlying birth mark or patch of hair should be looked at radiographically to be sure how and where they end. An MRI can give a conclusive answer. Dr. Greene`s Answer: A little hole at the base of the tailbone is called a sacral dimple or a sacral pit. Some of these are shallow and have a smooth end. Stool can collect in here. The treatment is to keep it clean, and to apply a protective barrier diaper ointment to try to keep stool out.
Pilonidal Dimple. A skin indention at the lower back of a human body is called as Pilonidal Dimple. These are found just above the buttocks and are very small and shallow. These are generally found during the time of birth. 
A sacral dimple is an indentation, present at birth, in the skin on the lower back. It's usually located just above the crease between the buttocks. Sacral dimples that are accompanied by a nearby tuft of hair, skin tag or certain types of skin discoloration are sometimes associated with a serious underlying abnormality of the spine or spinal cord.
Most sacral dimples are harmless and don't require any treatment. Sacral dimples that are accompanied by a nearby tuft of hair, skin tag or certain types of skin discoloration are sometimes associated with a serious underlying abnormality of the spine or spinal cord. In these instances, your child's doctor may recommend an imaging tes
(November 2008). A sacral dimple (also termed pilonidal dimple or spinal dimple) is a small depression in the skin, located just above the buttocks. The name comes from the sacrum, the bone at the end of the spine, over which the dimples are found. Sacral dimples are common, occurring in up to 4% of the population. Sacral dimples are usually spotted in post-natal checks by a pediatrician, who will check: 1  Can the floor of the dimple be seen to be covered with skin? 2  Is there a tuft of hair in the dimple? 3  Are there any other problems in the examination of the baby, such as weak lower limbs? 4  How close to the buttocks is
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Not to be confused with Sacral dimple. The dimples of Venus (also known as back dimples, butt dimples or Venusian dimples) are sagittally symmetrical indentations sometimes visible on the human lower back, just superior to the gluteal cleft. 