Oh, and as for the examples with the 30 + 20: The combined ratings table shows us two disabilities rated at 30 and 20 equal 44%. This rounds down to 40% disability rating. If you apply the bilateral factor to disability ratings of 30 and 20, you would get 48.4% (44% + 4.4%). This rounds up to 50%. The 30 and 20 combine for 44. If those are your only two ratings, you would have a 44% Va service-connected disability rating, which would round down to 40%. But we’re not done. We still have to add two 10% ratings.
If you have multiple ratings (because you have multiple disaiblities), the VA does not simply add them together to create your final rating. What the VA does is combine your ratings according to a formula. To apply this formula, the VA uses a Combined Ratings Table. The combined rating is then rounded up or down to the nearest whole number. In no case can you receive a rating that is higher than 100%. For example, say you have one disability rated at 40% and another rated at 60%. A 0% rating doesn't pay any disability compensation but is important because it may qualify you for health care and other VA benefits. The monthly payment for ratings of 10% or higher will vary based on whether the veteran has any dependents, and if so, how many.
If your disability is not listed in the Schedule of Rating Disabilities, the VA will look for a disability that is close to the one you have and then evaluate your disability based on the diagnostic code for the related disability. A 0% rating doesn't pay any disability compensation but is important because it may qualify you for health care and other VA benefits. The monthly payment for ratings of 10% or higher will vary based on whether the veteran has any dependents, and if so, how many.
Combined Ratings. If VA finds that a Veteran has multiple disabilities, VA uses the Combined Ratings Table below to calculate a combined disability rating. Disability ratings are not additive, meaning that if a Veteran has one disability rated 60% and a second disability 20%, the combined rating is not 80%. VA makes a determination about the severity of your disability based on the evidence you submit as part of your claim, or that VA obtains from your military records. VA rates disability from 0% to 100% in 10% increments (e.g. 10%, 20%, 30% etc.). See the Combined Ratings section below for information about how VA calculates disability percentage for multiple disabilities
When in doubt, use the Combined Ratings Table to do the math for you. If you have further questions about your specific case, then I recommend contacting the VA for clarification, or contacting a Veterans Service Officer at a Veterans Service Organization. VSO’s will help you with your claim free of charge. The 30 and 20 combine for 44. If those are your only two ratings, you would have a 44% Va service-connected disability rating, which would round down to 40%. But we’re not done. We still have to add two 10% ratings.
How It Works. The VA uses tables to compute the combined disability. The highest percentage to the lowest percentage is used. The highest minus 100% gives the efficiency for the highest degree of disability. Then the second is computed and so on to derive at a combined disability. The combined rating is then rounded up or down to the nearest 10%. This program does it for you. If you have more than one disability rating from the VA use this calculator to determine the combined rating. VA math computes the remaining efficency after calculating each disability. A 30% rating and a 60% rating would be 72% rounded down to 70%
Your rating is used to set the amount of your disability compensation, so that you are compensated for your loss in earning capacity as a result of your service to the country. Generally, less severe disabilities receive lower ratings and more severe disabilities receive higher ratings. A 0% rating doesn't pay any disability compensation but is important because it may qualify you for health care and other VA benefits. The monthly payment for ratings of 10% or higher will vary based on whether the veteran has any dependents, and if so, how many.