A group of organisms believed to comprise all the evolutionary descendants of a common ancestor: the great ape and human clade. More example sentences. 1  Species in the two primary clades in the genus tend to be found in different parts of North America. 2  Fossils are often not ancestors of extant taxa, but instead may be extinct sister groups to modern taxa or clades.
clade A hypothesized group consisting of a single common ancestral form and its descendant forms, usually thought of as being produced by divergence. MORE INFORMATION ... Clade: All descendants of any given species. A single whole branch of a phylogeny. Clade: from the Greek word klados, meaning branch. A branch of biological taxa or species that share features inherited from a common ancestor. A single phyletic group or line. Also cladus. Monophyletic group of taxa. Clade Boreo eutheria. Group III: Euarchontoglires (Supra primates). Super order Euarchonta ..
monophyletic group A group of organ isms descended from a common ancestor. For example: your immediate family may be considered such a group, being descended from a common ancestral group (grandparents, etc.). Monophyletic group (clade): Evolution ary assemblage of taxa that includes a common ancestor and all of its descendants. [See Avise, p. 36]. MRCA: Most recent common ancestor.
Monophyletic. Definition. adjective. A taxonomic group that holds characters descended from a single common ancestor. Supplement. 
(Redirected from Monophyletic) ... Clade: from the Greek word klados, meaning branch. A branch of biological taxa or species that share features inherited from a common ancestor. A single phyletic group or line. Also cladus. Monophyletic group of taxa. Clade Boreo eutheria. Group III: Euarchontoglires (Supra primates). Super order Euarchonta
clade. n. A grouping of organisms made on the basis of their presumed evolutionary history, consisting of a common ancestor and all of its descendants. [From Greek. 
Clade. Clade (n). a monophyletic group; a group of organisms (usually species) that are more closely related to each other than any other group, implying a shared most recent common ancestor. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page.
mon·o·phy·let·ic. adj. 1. Of or relating to a group of taxa that includes the common ancestor of all the members as well as all descendants of that ancestor. 2. Of or derived from one stock or source. mon′o·phy·let′ic·al·ly adv. monophyletic. adj. 1. (Biology) relating to or characterized by descent from a single ancestral group of animals or plants. 2. (Biology) (of animals or plants) of or belonging to a single stock. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter