Kylen /ky-len/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less widely as girls' name Kylen) is of Gaelic origin, and the name Kylen means narrow, straight. Kylen is an alternate form of Kyle (Gaelic). Kuylen is a familiar last name. Prominent related forms of Kylen (#984 last year) ranked in the Top 1000 are Kylan (#661 last year) , Kyle (#178) and Kyler (#288) . Variants like Kylar are seldom used. These boy names were at the top of their popularity in 2011 (usage of 0.4958%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.4723%, down 4.7%).
Comments and insights on the name Kylen: | Edit. The boy's name Kylen \k(y)-len\, also used as girl's name Kylen, is a variant of Kyle (Gaelic), and the meaning of Kylen is narrow, straight. Personal experiences with the name Kylen: | Edit. My second son of three has this name and he happens to be the most stubborn and willful of my boys. However he's brilliant and extremely humorous in crouds. A Class Clown as they say. My oldest daughter is named this
The origin of the baby name Kylen is Irish, Gaelic with the meaning(s) depending on Gender/Origin being: A Place-name Referring to the Narrows; a Wood or a Church. Israeli Meaning victorious! 
Gaelic Meaning: The name Kylen is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kylen is: A place-name referring to the narrows; a wood or a church. Irish Meaning: The name Kylen is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kylen is: A place-name referring to the narrows; a wood or a church. SoulUrge Number: 5
Kylen is an uncommonly occurring first name for men. Kylen is also an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Kylen for boys. Prominent related forms of Kylen (#984 last year) ranked in the Top 1000 are Kylan (#661 last year) , Kyle (#178) and Kyler (#288) . Variants like Kylar are seldom used. These boy names were at the top of their popularity in 2011 (usage of 0.4958%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.4723%, down 4.7%).
Kylen is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ky-len. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 984 in baby name popularity for boys with 209 occurrences. It ranked 6819 in popular baby names for girls with 18 occurrences. View the Kylen Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kylen has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kylen to other names. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Origin of the name Kyle: Transferred use of the surname originating from the region of the same name in southwestern Scotland. Kyle, a topographical term referring to a narrow, straight, channel, is derived from the Gaelic caol (narrow, a sound, a strait). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Kylen: | Edit. My second son of three has this name and he happens to be the most stubborn and willful of my boys. However he's brilliant and extremely humorous in crouds. A Class Clown as they say. My oldest daughter is named this
[ syll. ky-len, kyl-en ] The baby boy name Kylen is derived from Celtic origins. Kylen is a variant of the name Kyle (English and Gaelic). Kylen is somewhat popular as a baby boy name. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 2010s; before that, it was of very modest use only. At the recent height of its usage in 2012, 0.010% of baby boys were given the name Kylen. It was #998 in rank then. 