The process of taking the proceeds of criminal activity and making them appear legal. Laundering allows criminals to transform illegally obtained gain into seemingly legitimate funds. It is a worldwide problem, with approximately $300 billion going through the process annually in the United States. Money laundering usually consists of three steps: placement, layering, and integration. Placement is the depositing of funds in financial institutions or the conversion of cash into negotiable instruments. Placement is the most difficult step.
Definition. Legitimization (washing) of illegally obtained money to hide its true nature or source (typically the drug trade or terrorist activities). Use money laundering in a sentence. Show more usage examples... The rampant money laundering that occurred in Miami in the 1980's led to banks charging customers a percentage of their deposits just for the privilege of storing their clean money in banks across the city.
money laundering: an overview. Money laundering refers to a financial transaction scheme that aims to conceal the identity, source, and destination of illicitly-obtained money. The money laundering process can be broken down into three stages. 
Placing dirty money in a service company, where it is layered with legitimate income and then integrated into the flow of money, is a common form of money laundering. Money laundering is the process of transforming the proceeds of crime into ostensibly legitimate money or other assets. Some jurisdictions differentiate these for definition purposes, and others do not. Some jurisdictions define money laundering as obfuscating sources of money, either intentionally or by merely using financial systems or services that do not identify or track sources or destinations.
Anti money laundering (AML) is a term mainly used in the financial and legal industries to describe the legal controls that require financial institutions and other regulated … entities to prevent or report money laundering activities. 
TEMENOS. Anti-money laundering (AML) software is a type of computer program used by financial institutions to analyze customer data and detect suspicious transactions. Download this guide to become a Web App Security superhero.
DEFINITION of 'Money Laundering'. The process of creating the appearance that large amounts of money obtained from serious crimes, such as drug trafficking or terrorist activity, originated from a legitimate source. Next Up. Money laundering is the process of converting funds received from illegal activities into ostensibly clean money that does ...
Money laundering. Money laundering is the process of concealing illicit sources of money to make it appear like legitimately earned money. Money which is evidently the proceeds of a crime is referred to as dirty money, and money which has been laundered to appear legitimate is referred to as clean money.
BREAKING DOWN 'Anti Money Laundering-AML'. Though anti-money-laundering laws cover only a relatively limited number of transactions and criminal behaviors, their implications are extremely far reaching. In most cases money launderers hide their actions through a series of steps that make it look like money coming from illegal or unethical sources was earned legitimately.
An example of AML regulations are those that require institutions issuing credit or allowing customers open accounts to complete a number of due-diligence procedures to ensure that these institutions are not aiding in money-laundering activities. In most cases money launderers hide their actions through a series of steps that make it look like money coming from illegal or unethical sources was earned legitimately.