The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis. 4  Symptoms.
Different Types of Bacteria Found in Urine. In urinalysis interpretation, usually one type of bacterium is found predominantly. However, there are also cases, wherein two or more bacterial colonies are present in the agar plate. Such a test result signifies infection by more than one pathogen. Here are some of the common types of bacteria in urine. Escherichia coli. In the human body, E. coli is found in the lower section of the intestinal tract. This gram negative bacterium is excreted in the feces at the time of bowel movement.
Proteus bacterium is a recognized cause for the formation of urinary tract stones, which harbor bacteria that escape antibiotics. Microbes such as Klebsiella and enterococcus are also commonly found in urine, especially in women who are more prone to infections than men. Lactobacillus is a common vaginal contaminant that is usually present in women's urine and can cause infections when found in excessive amounts. A doctor can prescribe precautionary antibiotics to a patient at risk of developing an infection from lactobacillus.
Next to E. coli, this is one of the common types of bacteria present in urine. A gram-positive bacterium, it is found in the gastrointestinal tract in healthy people. From the GI tract and fecal matter, it moves to the urinary tract and causes infection by uncontrolled multiplication. Here are some of the common types of bacteria in urine. Escherichia coli. In the human body, E. coli is found in the lower section of the intestinal tract. This gram negative bacterium is excreted in the feces at the time of bowel movement.
Urine is normally a sterile body fluid but, while leaving the body, it can become infected by bacteria. A common way for urine to contract bacteria is when it is kept in an infected bladder, which provides a fertile environment for bacteria to grow. Bacteria is the main cause of urinary tract infections. When a large concentration of bacteria is in the urine, it also could result in Asymptomatic bacteriuria, a harmless condition that often requires no treatment. Lactobacillus is a common vaginal contaminant that is usually present in women's urine and can cause infections when found in excessive amounts. A doctor can prescribe precautionary antibiotics to a patient at risk of developing an infection from lactobacillus.
Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a condition in which one or more parts of the urinary system (the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra) become infected. UTIs are the most common of all bacterial infections and can occur at any time in the life of an individual.
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it. 1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis. 4  Symptoms.
Escherichia coli. The most common strain of bacteria found in urinary tract infections is the ubiquitous Escherichia coli (E. coli). E. coli is a gram-negative bacteria, shaped like a rod. Escherichia coli is usually found in the lower intestine of humans and present in fecal matter. Most urinary infections are caused by inadvertent transfer of fecal matter into the urethra. The E.coli present in the fecal matter, and then infect the urinary tract. 
Urine is normally sterile, which means that it contains no bacteria. A small number of bacteria may be found in the urine of many healthy people. This is usually considered to be harmless. However, a certain level of bacteria can mean that the bladder, urethra, or kidneys are infected. 