Days' Sales Outstanding (DSO) Ratio. Days' sales outstanding ratio (also called average collection period or days' sales in receivables) is used to measure the average number of days a business takes to collect its trade receivables after they have been created. 
Simple Interest. The average collection period formula is the number of days in a period divided by the receivables turnover ratio. The numerator of the average collection period formula shown at the top of the page is 365 days. For many situations, an annual review of the average collection period is considered. For example, if the receivables turnover for one year is 8, then the average collection period would be 45.63 days. If the period considered is instead for 180 days with a receivables turnover of 4.29, then the average collection period would be 41.96 days.
About Average Collection Period. The Average Collection Period measures the average number of days it takes for the company to collect revenue from its credit sales. The Average Daily Sales is the Net Sales divided by 365 days in the year
What is Average Collection Period. Average Collection Period represents the average number of days it takes the company to convert receivables into cash. Average Collection Period formula is: Receivables Turnover Ratio formula is: Average collection period measures the average number of days that accounts receivable are outstanding. This activity ratio should be the same or lower than the company's credit terms.
BREAKING DOWN 'Average Collection Period'. For example, suppose that a widget making company, XYZ Corp, has total credit sales of $100,000 during a year (assume 365 days) and has an average amount of accounts receivables is $50,000. Its average collection period is 182.5 days. DEFINITION of 'Average Collection Period'. The approximate amount of time that it takes for a business to receive payments owed, in terms of receivables, from its customers and clients.
Credit sales, from the income statement, were $215,600 for 2008. Here's the formula: ACP=$8,960/$215,600/365 = 15 days. This means that, on average, customers pay their credit accounts every 15 days. As a basis for comparison, further imagine that in 2007, average collection period for this company was 20 days. This means that it dropped by 5 days from 2007 to 2008. The average collection period improved from 2007 to 2008. 
Average collection period is computed by dividing the number of working days for a given period (usually an accounting year) by receivables turnover ratio. It is expressed in days and is an indication of the quality of receivables. Whether a collection period is good or bad, depends on the credit terms allowed by the company. For example, if the average collection period of a company is 50 days and the company allows credit terms of 40 days then the average collection period is worrisome. On the other hand, if the company’s credit terms are 60 days then the average collection period of 50 days would be considered very good. Previou
The average collection period ratio is also known as the days sales outstanding ratio. Answer: The average collection period is the number of days, on average, that it takes a company to collect its credit accounts or its accounts receivables. In other words, this financial ratio is the average number of days required to convert receivables into cash.