An Act is a statute, Law, or a decision by a legislative or judicial body such as an Act of Congress. A Bill is a legislative proposal offered for debate before its enactment. … A statute in draft before it becomes the law. There are two different types of laws-there is common law and statutory law. Statutory Law is law which is created by Parliament and written down in an act and is binding on all courts in the country. Common law is law created by the courts in case law and follows a system of precedent to decide what is binding.
An act is a law.. Before being passed by a legislative body, a piece of legislation is called a bill, which is not yet a law.. Once an bill has been passed by the requisite number of votes and is signed by an executive authority, it then becomes an act (enacted) and at that point, it becomes law. An Act is a law passed by a legislative body. An Ordinance usually has to do with municipal governments, such as a county or city. Example: A law setting zoning stan … dards for a community.
What Is The Difference Between Law And Act. The difference between a law and an act : Law, derived from legis in Latin, refers to a set of rules issued in a. . Act, where it also refers to a set of rules, originally means a legislative act, issued is an. jurisdiction. 
Best Answer: An act is passed by Parliament, which is (arguably) the highest form of law in the land. An act of parliament is the primary legislation of the UK. A regulation is two things (just to confuse things a little more!) firstly a regulation is a form of secondary legislation. An Act is a law that has been directly passed by the Houses of Parliament and to which the Queen has assented. Regulations are rules (having the force of law) passed by a body to which Parliament has delegated the power to make such rules. SteveT · 8 years ago.
Report Abuse. An Act is a law that has been directly passed by the Houses of Parliament and to which the Queen has assented. Regulations are rules (having the force of law) passed by a body to which Parliament has delegated the power to make such rules. SteveT · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
Confidence votes 104. An Act is a ... written ordinance of Parliament, Congress, etc. whereas a law is a rule or system of rules recognized by a country or community as regulating the actions of its members and enforced by the imposition of penalties.. There are two different types of laws-there is common law and statutory law. Statutory Law is law which is created by Parliament and written down in an act and is binding on all courts in the country. Common law is law created by the courts in case law and follows a system of precedent to decide what is binding.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Law generally refers to a bill that has been passed by the legislature and has been signed into law by the President or the Governor; legislation is a general term for proposed bills and drafts that are in the process of being considered by the legislature. 
difference between ordinance an act...... An Act is a bill that was presented in a State legislative home/Parliament of India, passed by both the houses of the State legislatu … re or Parliament, sent for accent of the State Governor or the President of India, and then it becomes an Act. There are two different types of laws-there is common law and statutory law. Statutory Law is law which is created by Parliament and written down in an act and is binding on all courts in the country. Common law is law created by the courts in case law and follows a system of precedent to decide what is binding.
• Law is a generic term that refers to all rules and regulations passed by the parliament and are meant to guide the conduct of people. Laws also help in the protection of the citizens and also in maintaining public order. • Acts are a type of Laws that pertain to specific situations and circumstances. They are passed by the government, to let people know the rules and regulations about specific situations. • Until an Act is passed by the parliament, it cannot become a law. Until it is passed by the parliament, an Act is known as a Bill. Act vs Law. The difference between act and law exist in their formation. Law is a word that is easily understood by common people. It is a piece of legislation that is binding upon people and is followed by all. It has provisions that are applicable on people in different circumstances