If you have recently had an upset stomach or diarrhea, your doctor may suggest that you limit your diet to bland foods that won’t irritate your stomach. The BRAT diet is a bland-food diet that is often recommended for adults and children. BRAT stands for B ananas, R ice, A pplesauce and T oast. The BRAT diet can help you recover from an upset stomach or diarrhea for the following reasons: 1  It includes “binding” foods. 2  These are low-fiber foods that can help make your stools firmer. 3  It includes bananas, which are high in potassium and help replace nutrients your body has lost because of vomiting or diarrhea. The BRAT diet can help you recover from an upset stomach or diarrhea for the following reasons: 1  It includes “binding” foods. 2
the BRAT diet: bananas, rice, apple sauce, and toast. The BRAT diet is a diet for patients with gastrointestinal distress such as diarrhea, indigestion, and/or gastroenteritis. The BRAT diet is a bland diet that consists of foods that are low in fiber. Low-fiber foods were recommended as it was thought that foods high in fiber cause gas and possibly worsen gastrointestinal upset. An acronym, BRAT is a mnemonic for bananas, rice, apple sauce, and toast, the staples of the die
Diarrhea and the BRAT Diet. The T in BRAT is for toast. If you find yourself running to the bathroom several times an hour with loose stools and the problem lasts a few days, you have diarrhea. Diarrhea is a sign something is causing irritation in your gastrointestinal tract. BRAT Diet. The BRAT diet is an acronym that will help you remember which foods you need to eat if you develop diarrhea. The foods you eat while you have diarrhea can help shorten or prolong the condition, according to MedlinePlus.
Physicians often recommend the BRAT method when someone is suffering from acute diarrhea, which is diarrhea that last for less than 14 days. This method, which is a diet of bland foods incorporated into your diet, helps settle your stomach and helps you recover from a gastrointestinal infection that causes diarrhea. BRAT stands for bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. Many of the infectious causes are common viruses, rotavirus, and norwalk virus. Diarrhea can be a condition of loose stools or frequent stools, but most Clinicians interpret diarrhea to be loose stools. One of the most popular ways to treat diarrhea is the BRAT method, which is a food based home remedy.
1 Feed an infant or child easily digested foods; the BRAT diet (bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast) is a good choice as soon as they can tolerate food. 2  For an adult, add semisolid and low-fiber foods gradually as diarrhea stops. 3. Ease Into Eating. 1 
Bland foods are commonly prescribed during such situations, as they are easy to digest and palatable with nausea and queasiness. Although, the BRAT (banana, rice, applesauce, toast) diet is still recommended, many experts suggest it is outdated and moot. The American Academy of Pediatrics states that most children can continue to eat a normal diet while they have mild diarrhea. 2. Gastroenteritis, inflammation of the digestive tract, can be viral or bacterial and also caused by food poisoning. The two most common symptoms are vomiting and/ or diarrhea, along with lethargy, dizziness, cramping, and fever. It can be potentially lethal if dehydration occurs.
Eat bananas. The first step in the BRAT method is to eat bananas. Bananas are great when you are suffering from diarrhea because they are bland and easy on the stomach. They are also helpful because they are rich in potassium, which will help counter the loss of nutrients from diarrhea. Many of the infectious causes are common viruses, rotavirus, and norwalk virus. Diarrhea can be a condition of loose stools or frequent stools, but most Clinicians interpret diarrhea to be loose stools. One of the most popular ways to treat diarrhea is the BRAT method, which is a food based home remedy.
The stomach flu is a viral infection that causes excessive diarrhea for one to three days and is treated with rest and diet modification. Food poisoning, another common condition, is caused by ingesting beverages or foods contaminated with bacteria, viruses or parasites. BRAT Diet. The BRAT diet is an acronym that will help you remember which foods you need to eat if you develop diarrhea. The foods you eat while you have diarrhea can help shorten or prolong the condition, according to MedlinePlus.
The BRAT diet is a unique approach to weight loss. An age old remedy for babies and toddlers with diarrhea, BRAT stands for Bananas, Rice, Applesauce and Toast (plain, no butter). 