Adaptive immunity refers to antigen-specific immune response. The adaptive immune response is more complex than the innate. The antigen first must be processed and recognized. Once an antigen has been recognized, the adaptive immune system creates an army of immune cells specifically designed to attack that antigen.
A HealthyWomen answered. Innate immunity is the body's immediate immune system response to a perceived threat. Invaders such as bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms display signs on their surface called antigens that signal immune system cells to action. Innate immunity is the next line of defense after the barriers of the skin and the mucosa. The role of the innate immune system is to attack invading pathogens, triggering an immediate inflammatory response and firing up the next line of defense, the adaptive immune system.
The innate immune system is the body’s first line of defense against infection by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, and parasites. The innate immune system is the body's first line of defense against viral and other infections. Leukocytes are an important component of blood and a key player in the body's immune system. Oxygen therapy may be administered to boost a patient's immune system. View slideshow of images above
The innate immune system, also known as the nonspecific immune system, is an important subsystem of the overall immune system that comprises the cells and mechanisms that defend the host from infection by other organisms. The cells of the innate system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system (which is found only in vertebrates), it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host.
Features of an Immune Response. An immune response is generally divided into innate and adaptive immunity. Innate immunity occurs immediately, when circulating innate cells recognize a problem. Adaptive immunity occurs later, as it relies on the coordination and expansion of specific adaptive immune cells. 
Our second line of defense. The second line of defense is the innate (or natural) immune system, so-called because all animals are born with it. Innate immunity provides the body with a non-specific defense against all objects or organisms perceived as being foreign. 
The gastrointestinal tract is part of the innate immune system. The innate immune system is the body's first line of defense against viral and other infections. Leukocytes are an important component of blood and a key player in the body's immune system. Oxygen therapy may be administered to boost a patient's immune system. View slideshow of images above
Innate Immunity. The innate immune system is also known as the nonspecific immune system, which provides the first line of immunological defense against infection. The molecules and the receptors of the immune system provide a broad range of protection, so that it is also referred to as ‘natural immunity’. The innate system is mainly composed of eosinophils, monocytes, macrophages, natural killer cells, tor-like receptors (TLRs), and a series of soluble mediators such as complement system. Adaptive Immunity. The adaptive or specific immune system mainly attacks the specific invaders.