Freekeh (sometimes spelled frikeh) or farik (Arabic: فريكة ‎ / ALA-LC: farīkah) is a cereal food made from green wheat that goes through a roasting process in its production. A similar food made from barley is mentioned in the Bible. Freekeh is mentioned in an early 13th-century Baghdad cook book as farīkiyya. In that recipe, meat is fried in oil and braised with water, salt, and cinnamon bark. Then, dried coriander is stirred in with young wheat (freekeh) and is cooked.
Freekeh (pronounced “free-ka”) is a versatile superfood packed with nutrition and health benefits. It is produced by harvesting grains while still soft, young and green, then parching roasting and drying. The process captures the grains at a state of peak taste and nutrition. Freekeh can be used in a variety of ways: 1  as a side dish (prepared and served like rice). 2  as an ingredient in soups and stuffings. 3  served with greens and dressing as a salad. 4  to make vegetarian burgers.
So glad you asked! Freekeh is an ancient roasted grain that is a great improvement to rice or other grains. It has an awesome nutty, chewy texture. We offer it organically in 3 varieties: Original, Rosemary Sage and Tamari. What's more, freekeh has up to 3 times the amount of fiber and protein as brown rice.
Freekeh is the name of this process and is not the name of a grain variety. Elsewhere you may see Freekeh referred to as freekah, frikeh, fireek, or farik. So versatile…. Freekeh can be used in a variety of ways: 1  as a side dish (prepared and served like rice). 2  as an ingredient in soups and stuffings. 3  served with greens and dressing as a salad. 4  to make vegetarian burgers.
Basically, cooking freekeh is just like cooking quinoa and many other grains. You combine the freekeh with water (and sometimes a bit of optional salt) in a saucepan, bring it to a boil, then cover it and allow it to simmer. Freekeh is sold as “whole” or “whole grain” and as “cracked.” That might seem confusing, but basically, “cracked” freekeh has just been broken into smaller pieces. This allows cracked freekeh to cook faster (which is why we typically choose cracked freekeh here at THK), and also gives it a slightly different texture.
Freekeh (also known as farik or frikeh) is an Arab food. It's made of young green durum wheat that has been harvested while the grains are still soft and full of moisture. They are polished and cracked, which makes them look like their cousins farro, spelt, and bulgur wheat. 
Feast on freekeh, a flavorful, high-fiber whole grain food that cooks quickly and tastes delicious. Freekeh (also known as farik or frikeh) is the name for roasted young wheat, and it is a traditional food of the Middle East and Northeastern Africa. Our Organic Cracked Freekeh cooks up in just 25 minutes for an easy, quick whole grain addition to your dinner table. Organic Cracked Freekeh is young green wheat that has been roasted and cracked. This traditional food of the Middle East has a pleasant nutty flavor and cooks in just 25 minutes.
Freekeh is a process which means to rub in Arabic. Freekeh was created by accident nearly 2,000 years ago when a Middle Eastern village was attacked and their crop of young green wheat was set ablaze. 
That's it. Well, there's a bit more. Freekeh is young green wheat that has been toasted and cracked. It's a healthy whole grain food, much like bulgur wheat and other whole grains. Although freekeh has been around for centuries, its recent resurgence can be traced back to an Oprah segment in which freekeh was featured in 2010. Cooking with freekeh. Like bulgur wheat, freekeh is a whole grain, but is usually sold cracked which increases its usability, since cooking time is reduced, but doesn't change it's nutritional content. Cracked or not, freekeh is a healthy whole grain.
You might also see it spelled freekah or frikeh, or called farik or fireek (that’s quite an identity crisis for a tiny grain!). Regardless, freekeh is essentially wheat that has been harvested early, while the grains are still tender and green. The kernels are then parched, roasted, dried and rubbed. Technically, the term freekeh is actually the name of a process used to prepare grains, and not the name of a specific grain variety. However, it typically refers to wheat, and generally to durum wheat. Freekeh is sold as “whole” or “whole grain” and as “cracked.” That might seem confusing, but basically, “cracked” freekeh has just been broken into smaller pieces. This allows cracked freekeh to cook faster (which is why we typically choose cracked freekeh here at THK), and also gives it a slightly different texture.