Hence, DNA polymerase moves along the template strand in a 3'-5' direction, and the daughter strand is formed in a 5'-3' direction. This difference enables the resultant double-strand DNA formed to be composed of two DNA strands that are antiparallel to each other. Retroviruses encode an unusual DNA polymerase called reverse transcriptase, which is an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase (RdDp) that synthesizes DNA from a template of RNA. The reverse transcriptase family contain both DNA polymerase functionality and RNase H functionality, which degrades RNA base-paired to DNA.
Argh. I'm an English major and I'm useless at this... show more I'm having trouble finding an answer to this in the textbook for the course and online. DNA polymerase has proofreading activity; RNA polymerase doesn't. Apparently, this lack of RNA proofreading isn't detrimental to the cell. 
Not to be confused with DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), (RDR), or RNA replicase, is an enzyme that catalyzes the replication of RNA from an RNA template. This is in contrast to a typical DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, which catalyzes the transcription of RNA from a DNA template. RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) is an essential protein encoded in the genomes of all RNA-containing viruses with no DNA stage that have sense negative RNA. It catalyses synthesis of the RNA strand complementary to a given RNA template. The RNA replication process is a two-step mechanism. 
For genes to be expressed, a complementary strand of RNA must be produced from a DNA template. During this process of transcription, a special class of enzyme called RNA polymerase moves along the DNA template, reading the DNA and producing an RNA complement. To transcribe DNA to RNA, an enzyme moves along one half of an unwound DNA helix, adding nucleotides to a nascent RNA strand. One such enzyme, pol II, transcribes portions of DNA that specifically encode proteins into messenger RNA.
RNA polymerase lacking sigma subunit is called the core RNA polymerase. RNA is synthesized in the 5' to 3' direction (the same direction as DNA is synthesized). The synthesis of RNA does not require a primer, but does require a DNA template strand. The portion of DNA copied is referred to as the template. Like DNA synthesis, transcription proceeds in the 5' to 3' direction. RNA polymerases differ from DNA polymerases in a couple of important respects. First, RNA polymerases do not require a primer.
RNA polymerase enzymes are essential to life and are found in all organisms and many viruses. Each RNAP is transcribing an RNA strand, which can be seen branching off from the DNA. Begin indicates the 3' end of the DNA, where RNAP initiates transcription; End indicates the 5' end, where the longer RNA molecules are completely transcribed.
Compare RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. RNA polymerase (RNAP or RNApol), also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces primary transcript RNA. In cells, RNAP is necessary for constructing RNA chains using DNA genes as templates, a process called transcription. Each RNAP is transcribing an RNA strand, which can be seen branching off from the DNA. Begin indicates the 3' end of the DNA, where RNAP initiates transcription; End indicates the 5' end, where the longer RNA molecules are completely transcribed.
SUMMARY: 1.DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA while RNA polymerase synthesizes RNA. 2.In contrast with the DNA polymerase, RNA polymerases do not necessarily require the so called primer to start the process and they actually have no proofreading systems. 2.RNA polymerases are capable of initiating a new strand but DNA polymerases cannot. 3.DNA has the base thymine while RNA has uracil as its base. 
Only after certain transcription factors are attached to the promoter does the RNA polymerase bind to it. The completed assembly of transcription factors and RNA polymerase bind to the promoter, forming a transcription initiation complex. Transcription in the archaea domain is similar to transcription in eukaryotes. 