Chemical bonds occur in various ways. They depend on the type of element present and the activity between electrons that are involved in the bond. The three types of chemical bonds are ionic bond, covalent bond, and metallic bond. The occurrence of the bonding of atoms and molecules may occur naturally. Sometimes, several compounds are made to form chemical bonds with each other by scientists in the laboratory. The existence of these chemical bonds is extremely useful to us.
A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms that allows the formation of chemical substances that contain two or more atoms. The bond is caused by the electrostatic force of attraction between opposite charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction. A strong chemical bond is formed from the transfer or sharing of electrons between atomic centers and relies on the electrostatic attraction between the protons in nuclei and the electrons in the orbitals.
The bonds between atoms are broken and reformed when chemical  reactions occur. Sometimes, in synthesis reactions, bonds are just  formed. Likewise, in decomposition reactio … ns, bonds are just  broken. However in ALL chemical reactions, bonds are broken and/or  formed! A chemical bond is the force that holds the atoms of a molecue  together, as in a compound. A chemical bond is an electrical force  linking atoms. 4 people found this useful. Edit.
The strength of chemical bonds varies considerably; there are strong bonds such as covalent or ionic bonds and weak bonds such as Dipole-dipole interaction, the London dispersion force and hydrogen bonding. A strong chemical bond is formed from the transfer or sharing of electrons between atomic centers and relies on the electrostatic attraction between the protons in nuclei and the electrons in the orbitals.
a chemical bond. The two extreme cases of chemical bonds are: Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding. Chemical Bonding. Chemical compounds are formed by the joining of two or more atoms. A stable compound occurs when the total energy of the combination has lower energy than the separated atoms. The bound state implies a net attractive force between the atoms ...
Ionic bonding is a type of chemical bond that involves the electrostatic attraction between oppositely charged ions. 
Chemical bonds are the force of attraction between two atoms. when they combine and form a molecule, they become a new substance with properties similar to that of the  … parent substances. Different amounts of different elements form different substances. You see, when a boy atom likes a girl atom.... A chemical bond is the force that holds the atoms of a molecue  together, as in a compound. A chemical bond is an electrical force  linking atoms. 4 people found this useful. Edit.
A chemical bond is the result of an attraction between atoms or ions. The types of bonds that a molecule contains will determine its physical properties, such as melting point, hardness, electrical and thermal conductivity, and solubility. How do chemical bonds occur? As we mentioned before, only the outermost, or valence, electrons of an atom are involved in chemical bonds. You’ll need to be familiar with three types of chemical bonds for the SAT II Chemistry exam: ionic bonds, covalent bonds, and metallic bonds. Ionic bonds are the result of an electrostatic attraction between ions that have opposite charges; in other words, cations and anions.
Uncovering Chemical Bonds. The attraction between atoms results into a chemical bond. These chemical bonds further bond with other atoms and/or molecules to form chemical compounds. Atoms that are not in a state of stability often attract other atoms and form a chemical bond. The occurrence of the bonding of atoms and molecules may occur naturally. Sometimes, several compounds are made to form chemical bonds with each other by scientists in the laboratory. The existence of these chemical bonds is extremely useful to us.