Currency. The Rand is the official currency of South Africa and is the official currency of the Common Monetary Area between South Africa, Swaziland and Lesotho. 
South Africa, Rand. The South African Rand is the currency of South Africa. Our currency rankings show that the most popular South Africa Rand exchange rate is the ZAR to USD rate. The currency code for Rand is ZAR, and the currency symbol is R. Below, you'll find South African Rand rates and a currency converter
Using a converter, to show you the value of South Africa currency it is important for you to know that the amount showed is the stock exchange rate and not the exchange rate. Add about 5-6% on top of the calculated amount to get the actual amount of the South Africa currency. South African Rand Converter. All South African currency bank notes are slightly different sizes and each one is a different colour – which makes it easier for you! Notes are in denominations of: R10 It is green and has a rhinoceros on the front side. The languages are Afrikaans and Swati.
The South African Rand, coded ZAR  on currency markets.    Equivalent (Jan 2008) to about USD 14c, EUR 10c  and GBP 7p    Named after the Witwatersrand (White … Waters Ridge) which runs  through Johannesburg, where the worlds largest deposits of gold  lie. The  South African Rand, coded  ZAR on currency markets.      Equivalent  (Jan 2008) to about USD 14c, EUR 10c and GBP 7p      Named after the Witwater … srand (White Waters Ridge) which runs  through Johannesburg, where the worlds largest deposits of gold  lie.
The rand (sign: R; code: ZAR) is the currency of South Africa. The rand has the symbol R and is subdivided into 100 cents, symbol c. The ISO 4217 code is ZAR, from Dutch Zuid-Afrikaanse Rand. (South African rand). The rand is the currency of the Common Monetary Area between South Africa, Swaziland and Lesotho. Although Namibia withdrew from this union, the rand is still legal tender there.
History. Introduced on February 14 the year 1961, the South African currency has the symbol “R’ which stands for the Rand. In addition, the South African currency is the medium of exchange in Swaziland, Lesotho and South Africa itself. These three countries form the common monetary area. 
Denominations of South African Currency. The South African currency consists of banknotes and coin and is denoted in Rand (R) and Cents (c) . All South African currency bank notes are slightly different sizes and each one is a different colour – which makes it easier for you! Notes are in denominations of: R10 It is green and has a rhinoceros on the front side. The languages are Afrikaans and Swati.
Other countries threw off the dominant currency of a neighbour; the Botswana pula replaced the South African rand in Botswana in 1976. Today inflation often creates a demand for more stable (but forbidden) foreign currency, while in rural areas the original bartering system is still in widespread usage. As of January 1, 2013, the Zambian Kwacha (ZMW) has the strongest currency in Africa.
South African currency is extremely user friendly as notes are clearly market and are different in color, making each note distinctive and easily recognizable. The currency in South Africa is Rand (ZAR) and cents. Money and Currency in South Africa. The majority of travelers prefer to use their Visa Cards and Master Cards when visiting foreign countries, and most restaurants and shops in South Africa will accept this form of payment.