Thyroid Disease and Gluten Intolerance. Researchers have determined those with an autoimmune thyroid disease (ATD), especially Hashimoto’s (hypothyroidism) or Grave’s (hyperthyroidism) disease, should be regularly screened for Celiac disease and gluten intolerance. Not only can digestive health suffer when people with Celiac disease or intolerance/sensitivity participate in prolonged gluten consumption, but thyroid health also drastically degrades.
Gluten and Your Thyroid. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. Unless you have been diagnosed with celiac disease, it probably won’t affect your thyroid. Gluten can damage the small intestines of people with celiac disease. 
1. It is clearly demonstrated that celiac disease is associated with several other autoimmune diseases, among them autoimmune thyroid disease, and that undiagnosed celiac disease or gluten sensitivities may have the potential to precipitate other autoimmunities. In short, while a gluten-free diet may provide relief from the ill-effects of gluten itself, or provide some relief for individuals with other autoimmune diseases, a gluten-free diet does not seem to deter progression of autoimmune thyroid disease once the process has already begun.
Well, here is a quick guide to a few of the ways it might be affecting your body – particularly your thyroid. You can read more general information about gluten intolerance here. What happens in gluten intolerance (1) is: Of perhaps greatest importance to thyroid patients, those researchers found that the various antibodies that indicate celiac disease – organ-specific autoantibodies (i.e., thyroid antibodies) — disappear after 3 to 6 months of a gluten-free diet.1.
Does gluten affect how your body absorbs medicine like Synthroid or does it just affect the thyroid’s function. My wife has been trying the gluten free thing for a while and it has had no effect on her symptoms but she has been told to be gluten free because of the affect it can have on thyroid function. In short, while a gluten-free diet may provide relief from the ill-effects of gluten itself, or provide some relief for individuals with other autoimmune diseases, a gluten-free diet does not seem to deter progression of autoimmune thyroid disease once the process has already begun.
Many have probably not heard of the link between your body’s thyroid gland, and it’s issues, and gluten (a protein found in wheat) and dairy. This week’s blog may be an eye-opener for some who have struggled to deal with hypothyroidism. The thyroid gland is very sensitive, meaning that too much thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and too little TSH can cause detrimental effects throughout your body. You see, the hypothalamus in your brain (a very small gland that is a BIG deal) produces thyroid releasing hormone (or TRH).
Posted. · Report post. Yes, yes, yes gluten can affect thyroid function! All of your symptoms could be caused by changes in thyroid. Your symptoms are classic hypothyroid symptoms and your Periods of: list is hyperthyroid. You may have times when the gluten alters your thyroid function by triggering autoimmunity. 
One Final Thought. If you have an autoimmune thyroid disorder, it is imperative that you completely avoid gluten. For those who suffer from a gluten sensitivity, avoiding gluten may be the best choice to protect your thyroid and overall health. Not only can digestive health suffer when people with Celiac disease or intolerance/sensitivity participate in prolonged gluten consumption, but thyroid health also drastically degrades.
Gluten is a protein found in staple grains, such as wheat, barley, rye and most oats, that can trigger digestive problems as well as fatigue, joint pain and autoimmune conditions. Going off gluten is the only way to manage your symptoms and stay healthy if you have celiac disease or are gluten intolerant. 