First classified as a planet, Ceres was later catalogued as an asteroid. With the discovery of Eris in 2005, after 150 years as the head of the asteroid belt, Ceres became the solar system's smallest dwarf planet. Ceres is still the largest, and by far the most massive member of the asteroid belt. SUMMARY: Major discoveries in the past decade have forced astronomers to review the definition of a planet. Our solar system now has three classified dwarf planets: our beloved Pluto, Eris, and Ceres.
There a currently five officially classified dwarf planets in our solar system. They are Ceres, Pluto, Haumea, Makemake and Eris. Ceres is located inside the asteroid belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, while the other dwarf planets are located in the outer solar system in, or near to, the Kuiper belt. This definition of a dwarf planet differentiates it from a planet on two criteria: unlike the dwarf planet, a planet has cleared the neighborhood around its orbit, and the definition of a planet does not include the satellite distinction.
A “dwarf planet” is a celestial body that (a) is in orbit around the Sun, (b) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape, (c) has not cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit, and (d) is not a satellite. With the exception of Ceres, which is located in the asteroid belt, the other dwarf planets are found in the outer solar system. There are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10,000.
The largest dwarf planet in the solar system could be either Eris or Pluto followed by Makemake and Haumea with the smallest being Ceres. The order of the dwarf planets from closest to Sun outwards is Ceres, Pluto, Haumea and Makemake with Eris being the furthest from the Sun. With the exception of Ceres, which is located in the asteroid belt, the other dwarf planets are found in the outer solar system. There are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10,000.
The definition of planet set in 2006 by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) states that, in the Solar System, a planet is a celestial body which: Is in orbit around the Sun, Has sufficient mass to assume hydrostatic equilibrium (a nearly round shape), and Has cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit. 
What differentiates a dwarf planet from a planet? For the most part, they are identical, but there's one key difference: A dwarf planet hasn't cleared the neighborhood around its orbit, which means it has not become gravitationally dominant and it shares its orbital space with other bodies of a similar size. Because it has not cleared the neighborhood around its orbit, Pluto is considered a dwarf planet. It orbits in a disc-like zone beyond the orbit of Neptune called the Kuiper belt, a distant region populated with frozen bodies left over from the solar system's formation.
The world was introduced to dwarf planets in 2006, when petite Pluto was stripped of its planet status and reclassified as a dwarf planet. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) currently recognizes two other dwarf planets, Eris and Ceres. Because it has not cleared the neighborhood around its orbit, Pluto is considered a dwarf planet. It orbits in a disc-like zone beyond the orbit of Neptune called the Kuiper belt, a distant region populated with frozen bodies left over from the solar system's formation.
For 76 years (until 2006), Pluto was known as the ninth planet in our solar system. Since then, Pluto has been relegated to dwarf planet status. Discovered in 1930, Pluto is a member of the outer region of our solar system known as the Kuiper belt. It has a highly inclined and eccentric 248-year orbit around the Sun. SUMMARY: Major discoveries in the past decade have forced astronomers to review the definition of a planet. Our solar system now has three classified dwarf planets: our beloved Pluto, Eris, and Ceres.
The only difference between a planet and a dwarf planet is the area surrounding each celestial body. A dwarf planet has not cleared the area around its orbit, while a planet has. Since the new definition, three objects in our solar system have been classified as dwarf planets: Pluto, Ceres and Eris. SUMMARY: Major discoveries in the past decade have forced astronomers to review the definition of a planet. Our solar system now has three classified dwarf planets: our beloved Pluto, Eris, and Ceres.
dwarf planets are mini celestial bodies that orbit around the sun  but are too small to be classed as a real planet pluto was recently  demoted from 'planet' to 'dwarf plane … t'   A dwarf planet is one of the smallest planets in our solar  system. They aren't classed as proper planets. For an object to be a planet it has to: orbit the sun, has enough mass to assume a rounded shape, and clear any objects in its path. Some planets (such as Pluto) are no long … er planets because they do not fit the criteria above. They are then usually classed as dwarf planets.