1 Hell, Haki (Japanese for ambition) is basically One Piece 's resident Life Energy. 2  Those who can control and project it out of their body get a substantial boost in battle. 3  And the most powerful form, which one has to be born with, is the Ambition of the King - the sheer desire to reign over everyone else.
Ambition and contentment are key values for your success and happiness. They are factors you’ll use to make decisions and take actions. The challenge with these values is that they can end up contradicting one another and creating issues in your personal, professional, and spiritual life.
By Taylor Boyd, Seattle, WA: This is the third installment in an eight part series highlighting evo’s core values, and the focus is on ‘balanced ambition.’ At evo, we are committed to balance—as a company, and as individuals.
The Eastern approach is to desire less and less until you short circuit your innate desires and it no longer matters to you. Neither approach works. Don’t try to balance selfish ambition with emotional contentment, live a life of Godly ambition balanced by Godly contentment.
Life is Great! Check out these 25 Motivational Quotes about ambition and success! 1. You have to leave the city of your comfort and go into the wilderness of your intuition. What you'll discover will be wonderful. What you'll discover will be yourself. – Alan Alda.
Godly ambition can be balanced with contentment, selfish ambition cannot. Godly Contentment versus Emotional Contentment. Similarly when we speak about whether a person is content or not we speak in generalities which is grossly misleading.
Enjoy the Process. The key to balanced ambition is to focus on the process, not the outcome of your actions. In yoga terms, this is detachment, or nongrasping. For ambitious people this can be tough to integrate, Forbes acknowledges.
Balance is everything, yin and yang, dark and light, opposites combining to create a sustainable mean. The words “balanced ambition” paired together make me think of a number of different ways my life can be framed with that phrase.