There are, however, a few pockets of humid forests called rainforests. Rainforests are forests where evergreen trees grow and that receive high rainfall. There are three kinds of rainforests found in Australia, tropical rainforest, sub-tropical rainforest and temperate rainforest. 
Biome characteristics. 1  Tropical forests are found near the equator in Central and South America, parts of Africa and Asia. 2  They are hot and humid and contain a huge variety of plants and animals-around half of all the world's species. 3  The trees are mostly hardwood. Biome characteristics. 1  Tropical forests are found near the equator in Central and South America, parts of Africa and Asia. 2  Savannah or tropical grasslands are hot and dry, dominated by grass, scrub [scrub: Dense vegetation consisting mainly of small shrubs and bushes. 3  Desert is the driest and hottest of areas. 4  Mediterranean climates are not too ...
Characteristics of the tropical forest. Because of the lack of seasonal differences, due to the geographical location of the forests, and the high humidity level the vegetation is luxuriant here. The recurring features of rainforests are basically the following: 1  high animal and vegetal biodiversity. 
Characteristics and climate. See where tropical rainforests are found on this biomes map. A tropical [tropical: The northern boundary of the Tropic of Cancer is found at a latitude of 23.5° North. The southern boundary of the Tropic of Capricorn is 23.5° South. Everything between these two lines is said to be tropical. ] rainforest biome is found in hot, humid environments in equatorial climates. The tropical rainforest is a biome [biome: A large-scale ecosystem. ] with a constant temperature and a high rainfall. The level of humidity [humidity: The amount of water vapour in the atmosphere measured as a percentage.
Plants Animals Climate Southeast Asian Rainforests The tropical rain forest is a forest of tall trees in a region of year-round warmth. An average of 50 to 260 inches (125 to 660 cm.) of rain falls yearly. Rain forests belong to the tropical wet climate group. **** Rainforests by Michael G. 2001 In an average year the climate in a tropical rain forest is very humid because of all the rainfall. A tropical rainforest gets about 150 cm of rain per year. It gets lots of rain because it is very hot and wet in rain forests. The hotter the air, the more water vapor it can hold
LOCATION: There are two types of rainforest biomes: temperate and tropical rainforests. Temperate rainforests are found along coasts in temperate regions. The largest temperate rainforests are on the Pacific coast in North America, stretching from Alaska to Oregon. 
The climate is most commonly found in Southeast Asia, Central Africa and South America. However, tropical microclimates are found in many other regions (e.g. far North Queensland), while not everywhere along the equatorial region features a tropical rainforest climate. Description [edit]. Tropical rainforests have a type of tropical climate in which there is no dry season – all months have an average precipitation value of at least 60 mm. Tropical rainforests have no summer or winter; it is typically hot and wet throughout the year and rainfall is both heavy and frequent.
A tropical rainforest climate, also known as an equatorial climate, is a tropical climate usually (but not always) found along the equator. Regions with this climate typically feature tropical rainforests, and it is designated Af by the Koeppen köppen climate. classification Description [edit]. Tropical rainforests have a type of tropical climate in which there is no dry season – all months have an average precipitation value of at least 60 mm. Tropical rainforests have no summer or winter; it is typically hot and wet throughout the year and rainfall is both heavy and frequent.