The first recipe for bobotie appeared in a Dutch cookbook in 1609. Afterwards, it was taken to South Africa and adopted by the Cape Malay community. It is also made with curry powder leaving it with a slight tang. It is often served with Sambal. South African Bobotie is one of the featured items on the menu; it is also served with turkey and mushrooms. It is listed as gluten free. You can purchase the dish for $4.50 or you can use a snack credit on the Disney Dining Plan.
Often almonds are part of the recipe, and even bananas, but there are limits to what you can do and still call it bobotie. I believe the traditional way is the best way. — Reuben Riffel, chef-owner of the Reuben's restaurants in South Africa. South African Meat Pie (Bobotie). One of South Africa's best-known dishes, this lamb meatloaf/frittata hybrid is flavored with golden raisins, curry powder, and tamarind; set in an egg custard.
A South African favourite, this traditional bobotie recipe stems from my friend Ruschka’s mother’s recipe and has been altered to the recipe you see below. Traditional bobotie recipe. Photo by Michelle Parkin. Bobotie is easy to prepare in advance and is always a crowd pleaser. This traditional bobotie is a mix of a few recipes, hints and advice. As with most great dishes everyone has their own special version but this one seems to do the trick for me. Bobotie is traditionally made with lamb or mutton. If you use beef then it is called beef bobotie. I always add a handful of sultanas (or raisins) to the mixture as well as some of the egg/milk mixture.
Definition of BOBOTIE. : a dish of minced meat with curry and condiments especially popular in southern Africa. bo·bo·tie or bo·bo·tee. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Bobotie is a South African dish consisting of spiced minced meat baked with an egg-based topping. It is a famous dish of South Africa. It is thought to have originated from the Indonesian dish bobotok, which consisted of meat with a custard topping that was cooked in a pan of water until the egg mixture set. Colonists from the Dutch East India Company colonies in Batavia probably introduced bobotie to South Africa. South African Bobotie is one of the featured items on the menu; it is also served with turkey and mushrooms. It is listed as gluten free. You can purchase the dish for $4.50 or you can use a snack credit on the Disney Dining Plan.
Prepare the plate with rice and chutney and then take the bobotie out of the oven at the last minute. Garnish rice with curry leaves. This recipe of a Y5 boy in my husband's school is the most delicious. We tried the BBC's and it was not the same as we used to have 'back home'. 
1 Set the milk aside. 2  Add the bread to the beef mixture. 3  Stir in the raisins, apricot jam, chutney, curry powder, salt, and black pepper. 4  Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish. 5  Bake in the preheated oven 1 hour. 6  While the bobotie bakes, whisk together the reserved milk, egg, and a pinch of salt. 1 Add the bread to the beef mixture. 2  Stir in the raisins, apricot jam, chutney, curry powder, salt, and black pepper. 3  Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish. 4  Bake in the preheated oven 1 hour. 5  While the bobotie bakes, whisk together the reserved milk, egg, and a pinch of salt. 6  Pour over top of the dish
1 While the bobotie bakes, whisk together the reserved milk, egg, and a pinch of salt. 2  Pour over top of the dish. 3  Lay the bay leaf onto the top of the milk mixture. 4  Return the bobotie to the oven until the top is golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes. 5  Remove bay leaf before serving. 1 Add the bread to the beef mixture. 2  Stir in the raisins, apricot jam, chutney, curry powder, salt, and black pepper. 3  Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish. 4  Bake in the preheated oven 1 hour. 5  While the bobotie bakes, whisk together the reserved milk, egg, and a pinch of salt. 6  Pour over top of the dish