The motor neuron diseases (MNDs) are a group of progressive neurological disorders that destroy motor neurons, the cells that control essential voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing. Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a hereditary disease affecting the lower motor neurons. It is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the gene SMN1, which makes a protein that is important for the survival of motor neurons (SMN protein).
Maple syrup urine disease is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain protein building blocks (amino acids) properly. Beginning in early infancy, this condition is characterized by poor feeding, vomiting, lack of energy (lethargy), seizures, and developmental delay. 1 Classic maple syrup urine disease is the most common type. 2  Individuals with classic maple syrup urine disease have little or no enzyme activity (usually less than 2 % of normal). 3  Infants with this type of maple syrup urine disease will show symptoms within the first several days of life.
There are different forms of motor neuron disease. 1  ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) is the most common form and accounts for approximately 60% to 70% of all cases. 2  PBP (progressive bulbar palsy) accounts for about 20% of all cases. In the case of motor neuron disease, motor neurons-types of nerve cells-are affected. The renowned English physicist, Stephen Hawking, and guitar virtuoso Jason Becker are living with
Motor neuron disease (MND) is a serious and incurable form of progressive neurodegeneration-over time the nerves in the spine and brain progressively lose function. In the case of motor neuron disease, motor neurons-types of nerve cells-are affected. The renowned English physicist, Stephen Hawking, and guitar virtuoso Jason Becker are living with motor neuron disease. In all three MND forms symptoms are very similar
1 Intermediate maple syrup urine disease is a variant of the classic type. 2  Individuals with intermediate maple syrup urine disease have a higher level of enzyme activity (approximately 3 to 8% of normal) and can tolerate a greater amount of leucine. 1 Classic maple syrup urine disease is the most common type. 2  Individuals with classic maple syrup urine disease have little or no enzyme activity (usually less than 2 % of normal). 3  Infants with this type of maple syrup urine disease will show symptoms within the first several days of life.
1 Intermittent maple syrup urine disease is a milder form of the disease. 2  Individuals with this type have a greater level of enzyme activity (approximately 8 to 15% of normal) and often do not have symptoms until 12 to 24 months of age, usually as a result of an illness or surge in protein intake. 1 Classic maple syrup urine disease is the most common type. 2  Individuals with classic maple syrup urine disease have little or no enzyme activity (usually less than 2 % of normal). 3  Infants with this type of maple syrup urine disease will show symptoms within the first several days of life.
Clinical Genetic Testing. Clinical genetic testing refers to the laboratory analysis of DNA or RNA to aid in the diagnosis of disease. It is very important to understand that clinical genetic testing is quite different than other types of laboratory tests. Presymptomatic testing identifies the presence of variant genes that cause disease even if the physical abnormalities associated with the disease are not yet present in an individual. Diagnostic genetic testing is performed on a symptomatic individual with symptoms sufficiently suggestive of a genetic disorder.
1 Scientists have used gene therapy to halt motor neuron destruction and slow disease progression in mouse models of SMA and inherited ALS. 2  The NINDS supports research to further explore this method and to provide a path toward clinical tests in patients. Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a hereditary disease affecting the lower motor neurons. It is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the gene SMN1, which makes a protein that is important for the survival of motor neurons (SMN protein).
If you have familial motor neurone disease, you can have a blood test to see if you have these faulty genes. If you do, other members of your family may want to think about getting tested too. This is called genetic testing. Your GP will ask about your symptoms and examine you. If your GP suspects you may have motor neurone disease, he or she will refer you to see a neurologist. This is a doctor who specialises in conditions that affect the nervous system, including the brain and spinal cord.
The exact symptoms you get will depend on what type of motor neurone disease you have. Often, the first symptoms of problems with your muscles are clumsy fingers and a weak grip. Other symptoms may include: 1  your muscles wasting away. Your GP will ask about your symptoms and examine you. If your GP suspects you may have motor neurone disease, he or she will refer you to see a neurologist. This is a doctor who specialises in conditions that affect the nervous system, including the brain and spinal cord.