Her parents are a doctor and nurse, and in a pre-taped interview for the pageant, Rolene said that becoming Miss South Africa and Miss World and studying medicine were her 'childhood dreams'. 'Everyone in my town called me Little Dr Strauss,' she said. There's good news for all the men out there; Miss Strauss is single. In a recent interview with the South African TV Authority, she was asked how many boyfriends she'd ever dumped. She replied: 'I would say three.' When asked about her relationship status, she said: 'I definitely don't have a public relationship.
Rolene Strauss (born 22 April 1992) is a South African model and beauty queen who was crowned Miss South Africa 2014 and in December the same year won Miss World 2014 in London. She is the second South African woman to win the Miss World pageant, but the third to hold the title. In the year 2000, at 8 years of age, Rolene Strauss witnessed the crowning of Jo-Ann Strauss (no relation) as Miss SA. She dreamed of winning the title herself, and she did so in March 2014. On the 24th of July 2015, Rolene got enaged to D'Neil Strauss and the wedding is set to take place in February 2016.
Biography of Rolene Strauss. Rolene Strauss (born 22 April 1992) is a South African beauty queen who was crowned Miss South Africa 2014, and in December the same year won Miss World 2014 in London. She is the second South African woman to win the Miss World pageant, but the third to hold the title. Warning: when the birth time is unknown, which is the case for Rolene Strauss, a few paragraphs become irrelevant; distributions in hemispheres and quadrants are meaningless, so are dominant houses and houses' accentuations. Therefore, some chapters are removed from this part.
Miss South Africa 2014. Currently resides in: Gauteng, South Africa. Born in Bloemfontein South Africa. Rolene Strauss was crowned Miss South Africa 2014 at the Sun International Superbowl on 30 March 2014. Strauss is a medical student from the University of the Free State. She's postponing her studies to fulfill her duties as the reigning Miss South Africa. 
Here are some fascinating facts about the South African Beauty queen who beat Miss US, Elizabeth Safrit as the second runner-up and Miss Hungary Edina Kulcsar as the first runner-up to make South African proud once again: 1. Rolene Strauss is a test tube baby that was born on 22 April 1992. In fact, she was the first test tube baby that was successfully conceived in Bloemfontein after the parents found it hard to conceive. “After five long years (and most of their savings), I popped out of a test tube,” she wrote. Rolene Strauss is a South African beauty queen who was recently crowned Miss World 2014 in London, after wining Miss South Africa 2014 earlier in the year (March 2014). Rolene Strauss became the second South African woman to bang the prestigious Miss World pageant and the third to hold it outright
N/A. Welcome to Star No Stars Rolene Strauss biography profile. Rolene Strauss is a Model from unknown South Africa. Rolene Strauss is N/A years old, born on N/A. Interested in Rolene Strauss horoscope zodiac and numerology info? Star no stars celebrity bio profile helps millions of people find REAL time live statistic's for your Rolene Strauss fan club, Rolene Strauss appearance timeline, stats, additional resources, or other favorite celebrity, and the chance to give them a vote to help them climb up the celebrity popularity charts.
Personal life [edit]. Rolene Strauss is a medical student at the University of the Free State. She was born in Volksrust, South Africa, to Theresa, a nurse, and Hennie Strauss, a doctor. In the year 2000, at 8 years of age, Rolene Strauss witnessed the crowning of Jo-Ann Strauss (no relation) as Miss SA. She dreamed of winning the title herself, and she did so in March 2014. On the 24th of July 2015, Rolene got enaged to D'Neil Strauss and the wedding is set to take place in February 2016.
Strauss was born in Volksrust, South Africa, the daughter of Theresa, a nurse, and Hennie Strauss, a doctor. In the year 2000, at 8 years of age, Rolene Strauss witnessed the crowning of Jo-Ann Strauss (unrelated) as Miss SA. She dreamed of winning the title herself, and she did so in March 2014. Warning: when the birth time is unknown, which is the case for Rolene Strauss, a few paragraphs become irrelevant; distributions in hemispheres and quadrants are meaningless, so are dominant houses and houses' accentuations. Therefore, some chapters are removed from this part.