The name Charles is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Charles is: Man (from the Old English 'ceorl'). Famous Bearers: American movie star Charles Bronson; British Prince Charles; evolutionist Charles Darwin. The name Charles is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Charles is: King Henry V' Charles the sixth, Dauphin and afterwards King of France. 'As You Like It' Wrestler to Frederick.
Meaning of Charles. German name. In German, the name Charles means-manly, farmer. Other origins for the name Charles include-German, English, French.The name Charles is most often used as a boy name or male name. German Name Meaning-manly, farmer. Origin-Germany.
Charles is derived from the Germanic karl (full-grown, a man), which is a cognate of the Old English ceorl (a man, freeman, peasant). Personal experiences with the name Charles: | Edit. My Granddad was called Charles, he always went by Charlie. I think it's a good name as it can be anything you want it to be with by using nicknames. I think it goes nicely with Alexander as a middle name.
Look up Charles in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Charles is a masculine given name from the French form Charles of a Germanic name Karl. The original Anglo-Saxon was Ċearl or Ċeorl, as the name of king Cearl of Mercia, that disappeared after the Norman conquest of England. The corresponding Old Norse form is Karl, the German form is also Karl. After Charlemagne, the name Charles (Karol) became even the standard word for king in Slavic (Czech and Slovak kral, Král polish; Krol Król south slavic, kral крал; Krȃlj краљ), Russian (король baltic, Latvian karalis) lithuanian Karalius (and). hungarian kiraly király
English Meaning: The name Charles is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Charles is: Man (from the Old English 'ceorl'). Famous Bearers: American movie star Charles Bronson; British Prince Charles; evolutionist Charles Darwin. German Meaning: The name Charles is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Charles is: From the Old German carl, meaning a man. Famous bearer: British Charles Prince of Wales. The name Charles is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Charles is: King Henry V' Charles the sixth, Dauphin and afterwards King of France. 'As You Like It' Wrestler to Frederick.
From the Germanic name Karl, which was derived from a Germanic word meaning man. However, an alternative theory states that it is derived from the common Germanic element hari meaning army, warrior. The popularity of the name in continental Europe was due to the fame of Charles the Great (742-814), commonly known as Charlemagne, a king of the Franks who came to rule over most of Europe.
Charles /char-les/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced charlz. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Charles is free man. From karl, similar to Old English churl, meaning man, serf. Affiliated boy name: Curley. Charles has 3 more related variations via Arlo: Arlow, Arlowe and Arrlo. Charles has 14 feminine forms: Arlette, Carla, Carlene, Carly, Carol, Caroline, Charla, Charlene, Charlesetta, Charlize, Charlotte, Karolina, Roline and Sharlene.
Shakespearean Meaning: The name Charles is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Charles is: King Henry V' Charles the sixth, Dauphin and afterwards King of France. 'As You Like It' Wrestler to Frederick.
Below is a charted comparison of the usage of Charles and associated names. Carlos (#117 in 2014) , Charlie (#225) , Arlo (#539) , Carl (#613) , Chad (#703) , Chip, Chuck, Karl, Chaz, Curley, Carlo, Carroll, Cary, Charley, Carrol and Chas are the prominent varying forms of Charles (#51 in 2014) . Affiliated boy name: Curley. Charles has 3 more related variations via Arlo: Arlow, Arlowe and Arrlo. Charles has 14 feminine forms: Arlette, Carla, Carlene, Carly, Carol, Caroline, Charla, Charlene, Charlesetta, Charlize, Charlotte, Karolina, Roline and Sharlene.