Means goldsmith in German. GORMAN (1) German. From a given name derived from the Germanic elements ger spear combined with mann man. GOTT German. Derived from the short form of various Germanic compound given names whose first element is either god meaning good or god or got meaning god. From Fasching, a German carnival (Fastnacht meaning eve of the beginning of the fast, or the time before Lent) celebrated in Austria and Catholic Bavaria, and bauer meaning farmer. FAUST German. Derived from the given name Faust, a form of FAUSTUS
AHLF: Pet form of German Adolf, meaning noble wolf.. AKSEL: German form of Scandinavian Axel, meaning father of peace.. ALBERICH: Variant spelling of Old High German Albirich, meaning elf ruler.. In Germanic mythology, this was the name of a sorcerer king of elves. 
Axel (also Aksel) is a Scandinavian masculine given name. In Denmark and Norway the spelling form Aksel is more common. The Finnish form of the name is Akseli. A French feminine form is Axelle. Due to the Danish archbishop Absalon (1128–1201) being also known as Axel of Lund, the name has been interpreted as a corruption of the Hebrew name Absalom.
Derived from the German given name Hellwig, which is a newer form of both Helmwig meaning helmet and battle and HEILWIG. HEPPENHEIMER German. From Heppenheim, the name of a city in Hessen. HERBERT Dutch, English, French, German. Derived from the male given name HERBERT. HERMANN German. From the given name HERMANN. From Fasching, a German carnival (Fastnacht meaning eve of the beginning of the fast, or the time before Lent) celebrated in Austria and Catholic Bavaria, and bauer meaning farmer. FAUST German. Derived from the given name Faust, a form of FAUSTUS
Personal names in German-speaking Europe consist of one or several given names (Vorname, plural Vornamen) and a surname (Nachname, Familienname) The Vorname is usually gender-specific. A name is usually cited in the . Western order  of given name, surname, unless it occurs in an alphabetized list of surnames, e.g.  Bach, Johann Sebastian . In this, the German conventions parallel the naming conventions in most of Western and Central Europe, including English, Dutch, Italian, and French.
German Meaning: The name Aksel is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Aksel is: Father of peace. Hebrew Meaning: The name Aksel is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Aksel is: Father of peace. Scandinavian Meaning: The name Aksel is a Scandinavian baby name. In Scandinavian the meaning of the name Aksel is: Father of peace.
Aksel /ak-sel/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Aksel is father is peace. Aksel is a version of Axel (Hebrew): Scandinavian version of Absalom. Compare surname Amsel. Kreatif forms: Alsel, Arsel, Atsel. 
Meaning of Aksel. German name. In German, the name Aksel means-father of peace. Other origins for the name Aksel include-German, Hebrew.The name Aksel is most often used as a boy name or male name. German Name Meaning-father of peace.
The origin of German Last Names. The meanings of German last names are those as originally defined when these names became surnames. For example, the surname Meyer means dairy farmer today, whereas in the Middle Ages, Meyer was designated to people who were stewards of landholders. 