Definitions: 1. A thin sheet of dried flour paste used to enclose a powder. The wafer is moistened and folded over the drug, so that it can be swallowed without taste. The definition information for wafer is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
With increasing miniaturization and complexity, silicon devices depend on the quality of the wafer bonding process for long-term reliability. Electromechanical testing can’t detect wafer bowing, warping, micro-cracking, bonding gaps or contamination that can eventually lead to device failure. 
The boule is then sliced with a wafer saw (wire saw) and polished to form wafers. The size of wafers for photovoltaics is 100–200 mm square and the thickness is 200–300 μm. In the future, 160 μm will be the standard. Electronics use wafer sizes from 100–450 mm diameter. (The largest wafers made have a diameter of 450 mm but are not yet in general use.).
Wafer. More commonly known as a silicon wafer, a wafer is a single thin slice of a crystal ingot that has been precisely cut using a diamond saw and chemically polished. The silicon wafers are approximately 1/30th-inch to 1/50th-inch thick and 3 to 6 inches in diameter. You are here: Dictionary W-Definitions. More commonly known as a silicon wafer, a wafer is a single thin slice of a crystal ingot that has been precisely cut using a diamond saw and chemically polished.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A wafer, also called a slice or substrate, is a thin slice of semiconductor material, such as a crystalline silicon, used in electronics for the fabrication of integrated circuits and in photovoltaics for conventional, wafer-based solar cells. The size of wafers for photovoltaics is 100–200 mm square and the thickness is 200–300 μm. In the future, 160 μm will be the standard. Electronics use wafer sizes from 100–450 mm diameter. (The largest wafers made have a diameter of 450 mm but are not yet in general use.).
Full Definition of WAFER. 1. a: a thin crisp cake, candy, or cracker b: a round thin piece of unleavened bread used in the celebration of the Eucharist. 2. : an adhesive disk of dried paste with added coloring matter used as a seal. 3. 3. a: a thin disk or ring resembling a wafer and variously used (as for a valve or diaphragm) b: a thin slice of semiconductor (as silicon) used as a base for an electronic component or circuit. See wafer defined for English-language learners. See wafer defined for kids.
wafer. n. 1. (Cookery) a thin crisp sweetened biscuit with different flavourings, served with ice cream, etc. 2. (Ecclesiastical Terms) Christianity a thin disc of unleavened bread used in the Eucharist as celebrated by the Western Church. 3. (Pharmacology) pharmacol an envelope of rice paper enclosing a medicament. 
The wafer is a stack of material with silicon on top of oxide on top of silicon. SOI wafers can be created by: 1) bonding two oxidized. piece of silicon together (bonded wafers) to form the stack, or 2) by using a heavy. oxygen ion implant of the wafer followed by annealing (often known as SIMOX). 
In gastronomy, a wafer is a crisp, often sweet, very thin, flat, and dry biscuit, often used to decorate ice cream. Wafers can also be made into cookies with cream flavoring sandwiched between them. They frequently have a waffle surface pattern but may also be patterned with insignia of the food's manufacturer or may be patternless. Many chocolate bars, such as Kit Kat and Coffee Crisp, have wafers in them.