1 Administer Herceptin, alone or in combination with paclitaxel, at an initial dose of 4 mg/kg as a 90 minute intravenous infusion followed by subsequent once weekly doses of 2 mg/kg as 30 minute intravenous infusions until disease progression. If the patient has missed a dose of Herceptin by one week or less, then the usual maintenance dose (weekly schedule: 2 mg/kg; three-weekly schedule: 6 mg/kg) should be administered as soon as possible. Do not wait until the next planned cycle.
If the patient has missed a dose of Herceptin by more than one week, a re-loading dose of Herceptin should be administered over approximately 90 minutes (weekly schedule: 4 mg/kg; threeweekly schedule: 8 mg/kg), as soon as possible. If the patient has missed a dose of Herceptin by one week or less, then the usual maintenance dose (weekly schedule: 2 mg/kg; three-weekly schedule: 6 mg/kg) should be administered as soon as possible. Do not wait until the next planned cycle.
email. MNT featured. Patients in early-stage HER2-positive breast cancer should remain on Herceptin (trastuzumab) treatment for one year, and not two years or six months, according to a final analysis of the Phase III HERA trial, pharmaceutical company Roche and the Breast International Group announced today. In the USA, Herceptin is manufacture and sold by Genentech, by Chugai in Japan, and by Roche in the rest of the world. A full one-year course of Herceptin treatment costs about $70,000. According to various media sources, Genentech has never explained why the drug is so expensive.
Additionally, there is a risk of a life-threatening infusion reaction in all patients, and trastuzumab should be infused with caution, especially with the first dose. The average wholesale price of trastuzumab is $2,928.89 for 440 mg. For a 70-kg woman, each 2-mg/kg dose would cost about $1,000, and a yearly regimen would cost about $50,000. 
In patients with early breast cancer eligible for neoadjuvant-adjuvant treatment, Herceptin should only be used concurrently with anthracyclines in chemotherapy-naive patients and only with low-dose anthracycline regimens, i.e. with maximum cumulative doses of doxorubicin 180 mg/m 2 or epirubicin 360 mg/m 2. Herceptin 440 mg multi-dose vials: each pack contains one vial of Herceptin (440 mg trastuzumab) and one 20 mL vial of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection.
Recently I was informed Herceptin is being studied. The length of time and the cost of this treatment are under fire. The pharmaceutical company insist it is right for Herceptin to be taken for a year no more or no less, but at the cost of just over £40’000 to the NHS per person means it is being investigated. HER2 is amplified in 20% of breast cancers cases. Tamoxifen costing less than £800 over five years starves cancer cells of oestrogen, whereas Herceptin binds the cancerous cells preventing the erratic growth. I will have eighteen Herceptin treatments at a cost of around £3000 each. You can see why the NHS has started a yearlong study on Herceptin and its benefits.
1 A typical fill can cost $3,902 or more for 1 vial of Herceptin 440mg. 2  Patients in need of this drug may find most of the cost paid by an insurance company, government, or non profit organization. 3  If you are uninsured or need help with your co-pay, the manufacturer may also offer assistance. 4  Learn more. Specialty medication. This drug is considered a specialty medication, which means: 1  It may be expensive. 2  A typical fill can cost $3,902 or more for 1 vial of Herceptin 440mg.
1 It may be expensive. 2  A typical fill can cost $3,902 or more for 1 vial of Herceptin 440mg. 3  Patients in need of this drug may find most of the cost paid by an insurance company, government, or non profit organization. Specialty medication. This drug is considered a specialty medication, which means: 1  It may be expensive. 2  A typical fill can cost $3,902 or more for 1 vial of Herceptin 440mg.
1 Administer Herceptin at an initial dose of 8 mg/kg as a 90 minute intravenous infusion followed by subsequent doses of 6 mg/kg as an intravenous infusion over 30-90 minutes every three weeks until disease progression [see Important Dosing Considerations below]. If the patient has missed a dose of Herceptin by one week or less, then the usual maintenance dose (weekly schedule: 2 mg/kg; three-weekly schedule: 6 mg/kg) should be administered as soon as possible. Do not wait until the next planned cycle.