The average salary for martial arts instructor jobs is $35,000. Average martial arts instructor salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term martial arts instructor anywhere in the job listing. The martial arts instructor salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional martial arts instructor salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Martial Arts Instructor Salary. (United States). The average Martial Arts Instructor in the United States can expect to rake in roughly $11.31 per hour. Compensation ranges from $8.33 per hour on the lower end to $20.18 on the higher end. Job satisfaction for Martial Arts Instructors is high
Compensation is based on experience – in areas of martial arts, teaching martial arts and skills as a program manager.... Easily apply. 14 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Marietta Martial Arts jobs in Marietta, GA-Marietta jobs. 2  Salary Search: Part Time Karate Instructor salaries in Marietta, GA. 
Martial Arts Instructor average salary is $33,745, median salary is $32,614 with a salary range from $20,800 to $52,000. Martial Arts Instructor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Martial Arts Instructor salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Martial Arts Instructor salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors
As a Martial Arts Instructor, you will teach new skills to members to help them develop martial arts techniques while building teamwork.... Lifetime Fitness - 9 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Life Time jobs in Lenexa, KS-Lenexa jobs. 2  Salary Search: Martial Arts Instructor salaries in Lenexa, KS. 
master martial arts instructor salary master martial arts instructor average salary is $ 38405 median salary is $ 36000 with a salary range from $ 34840 to $ 46779 master martial arts instructor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies each salary is associated with a real job position 
Different Martial Arts. The average salary for instructors of specific traditional martial arts might differ from the average salary for martial arts instructors in general. For example, Salarylist.com lists the average salary of a karate instructor as $26,679 per year as of 2012. This compares with $23,941 for a wrestling instructor and $28,684 for a taekwondo instructor. As of 2012, Simply Hired lists the average salary for a martial arts instructor as $35,000 a year. That's compares to an average salary of $32,440 listed by Salarylist.com. Your salary will ultimately depend on the specific art you teach as well as where you teach it.
According to Salaryexpert.com, the average salary of a martial arts instructor as of 2012 is highest in Manhattan, at more than $50,000. Of course, this must be balanced against the high cost of living in New York City. As of 2012, Simply Hired lists the average salary for a martial arts instructor as $35,000 a year. That's compares to an average salary of $32,440 listed by Salarylist.com. Your salary will ultimately depend on the specific art you teach as well as where you teach it.