From Constant Therapy, Inc.: Constant Therapy is an award winning solution that provides personalized therapy tools to help people with speech, language, cognition, memory & learning disorders. 
From Constant Therapy: Constant Therapy is an award winning solution that provides personalized therapy tools to help people with speech, language, cognition, memory & learning disorders. 
Constant Therapy is a customizable iPad application to support the rehabilitation efforts of stroke survivors. As performance scores change, tasks can change in the level of difficulty and new tasks can be introduced. Constant Therapy provides tools for stroke survivors who want to get back to everyday activities like speaking, reading, writing, counting money, solving problems, reading maps and calendars, and more.
Constant Therapy is free for clinicians, educators and researchers in one-on-one therapy sessions with their clients. Users can continue progress after the trial with a monthly subscription of $19.99 / month or annual subscription of $199.99 / year. While he was going to a speech pathologist 3 times a week and doing 'homework', it just did not seem that he was making enough progress so I began researching iPad software specifically designed for aphasia and discovered Constant Therapy.
This study investigates this relationship while using Constant Therapy, which is an iPad-based therapy program with over 30 tasks. Fifty-one individuals with aphasia due to a stroke or traumatic brain injury were recruited for a 10 week treatment program. Fifty-one individuals with aphasia due to a stroke or traumatic brain injury were recruited to use an iPad-based software platform, Constant Therapy,
Constant Therapy’s NeuroPerformanceTM Engine, a unique and advanced analytics engine, creates personalized exercises for patients, improving their cognitive, language, and learning skills continuously, and transforming the delivery of brain rehabilitation. One of the Most Systematic and Comprehensive Brain Recovery and Rehabilitation Programs Available. Constant Therapy is designed to be used independently by anyone seeking to improve brain function, or in conjunction with a clinician as an integral part of therapy.
Constraint-induced movement therapy (CI or CIMT) is a form of rehabilitation therapy that improves upper extremity function in stroke and other central nervous system damage victims by increasing the use of their affected upper limb. 
Personalized therapy for people with Aphasia, traumatic brain injury, TBI, stroke & learning disabilities on Android and iPad. Unique NeuroPerformance EngineTM creates personal performance profile to deliver optimum individualized therapy. Science-based exercises encourage progress. 
Constant Therapy is an award winning solution for personalized therapy to help with speech, language, cognition, attention, memory & learning disorders. While he was going to a speech pathologist 3 times a week and doing 'homework', it just did not seem that he was making enough progress so I began researching iPad software specifically designed for aphasia and discovered Constant Therapy.
Patients or individuals can use Constant Therapy independently at home, or with their clinician. Clinicians, educators and researchers can use the program with multiple clients, set up homework and monitor patients' progress to make better clinical decisions. While he was going to a speech pathologist 3 times a week and doing 'homework', it just did not seem that he was making enough progress so I began researching iPad software specifically designed for aphasia and discovered Constant Therapy.