DEFINITION of 'National Market System-NMS'. A system with two main functions: 1. To facilitate trading of OTC stocks whose size, profitability, and trading activity meet specific criteria. 2. To post prices for securities on the NYSE and other regional exchanges simultaneously, allowing investors to obtain the best price. The National Market System is sponsored by both the NASD and the Nasdaq. Compared to other OTC stocks, OTC stocks trading under the NMS system have a more comprehensive listing within newspapers.
We believe that the sale of the NMS Communications Platforms business paves the way to best drive long-term value creation for our employees, customers and shareholders,” said Bob Schechter, NMS’s Chairman and CEO. NMS Communications will host a conference call and webcast to discuss the details of the sale of the NMS Communications Platforms business today, September 12, 2008 at 8:30 am ET. To access this call, dial 719-325-4941.
Show more usage examples... The market system was efficient in promoting trade and exchange of goods and services between the market sellers and buyers. 2 people found this helpful. In school, instead of paying attention to math, I studied the market system because I would one day work on wall street. 5 people found this helpful. 
About NMS Communications Corporation NMS Communications Corporation (NASDAQ:NMSS-News) is a leading provider of applications, platforms and technologies that make possible the rapid creation and deployment of a broad range of value-added services, from voice mail to IVR to ringback and mobile TV. NMS Communications will host a conference call and webcast to discuss the details of the sale of the NMS Communications Platforms business today, September 12, 2008 at 8:30 am ET. To access this call, dial 719-325-4941.
Part of the Network administration glossary: A network management system (NMS) is a set of hardware and/or software tools that allow an IT professional to supervise the individual components of a network within a larger network management framework. Network management system components assist with: 1 Network device monitoring-monitoring at the device level to determine the health of network components and the extent to which their performance matches capacity plans and intra-enterprise service-level agreements (SLAs).
INTRODUCTION. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a life threatening neurologic emergency associated with the use of neuroleptic agents and characterized by a distinctive clinical syndrome of mental status change, rigidity, fever, and dysautonomia. While most patients with NMS are young adults, the syndrome has been described in all age groups from 0.9 to 78 years [ 2,4-6 ]. Age is not a risk factor [ 7 ]. In most studies, men outnumber women twofold. Both age and gender distributions correspond with the distribution of the exposure to neuroleptic agents [ 4,7 ].
REG NMS Cheat Sheet. A synopsis of the 371-page SEC document outlining the Regulation National Market System proposal. To download the Reg NMS cheat sheet as a PDF, click here. 