By Investopedia AAA |. A: To make a qualified withdrawal from a Roth 401(k) account, the account holder must have been contributing to the account for at least the previous five years and be either 59 1/2 years old, deceased, or completely and permanently disabled. 
Penalties on Earnings from Contributions. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution. Penalties on Conversions From a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. The penalty rules regarding conversions are a bit different than those for annual contributions, which may be taken at any time for any purpose free of income taxes and penalty.
If you’re under age 59½ and your Roth IRA has been open five years or more, 1 your earnings will not be subject to taxes if you meet one of the following conditions: 1  You use the withdrawal (up to a $10,000 lifetime maximum) to pay for a first-time home purchase. Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. With a Roth IRA, contributions are not tax-deductible, but earnings can grow tax-free. Roth IRA withdrawal and penalty rules vary depending on your age.
It is normally subject to taxes and a 10% early-withdrawal penalty if you’re under age 59½ when you take the money. If you’re a first-time home buyer, however, you can withdraw up to $10,000 in earnings from your Roth IRA without the 10% early-withdrawal penalty, even if you’re under age 59½. When you withdraw money from a Roth IRA, your contributions are counted first, then the conversions, and finally, the earnings. As you mentioned, you can take your contributions tax-free and penalty-free at any time.
However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties. Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. With a Roth IRA, contributions are not tax-deductible, but earnings can grow tax-free. Roth IRA withdrawal and penalty rules vary depending on your age.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up.
That means your account total is $5,272.50. Under Roth IRA rules (check IRS Publication 590 for more information), you can withdraw up to $5,000 without paying taxes on it, and without paying a penalty. Once you dip into your earnings – that $272.50 – the story changes. You can withdraw what you have contributed at anytime, and for any reason
Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. The whole point of an IRA (Roth or otherwise) is to save for retirement. Unfortunately, things don’t always go as planned, and you may find yourself needing to withdraw money from your Roth IRA before age 59½. 
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. No age limit. Contributions to a Roth IRA don't have to stop when you reach age 70½, the cut-off for a traditional IRA. You can put money in your account for as many years as you want, as long as you have earned income that qualifies.
The tax and penalty situation is based on order-of-withdrawal rules. When you withdraw money from a Roth IRA, your contributions are counted first, then the conversions, and finally, the earnings. As you mentioned, you can take your contributions tax-free and penalty-free at any time.