1 If desired, you can add other seasonings to the tilapia at this time, as well. 2  Flavors that complement the taste of lemon include onion, garlic, parsley, dill, basil, and oregano. 3  For concentrated powders like garlic powder or onion powder, use no more than 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml). 1 You do not need to add the tomato, but the benefit of cooking tilapia in foil packets is that you cook vegetables with the fish while infusing the fillets with the flavor. 2  You can also layer chopped green onion, chopped sweet onion, or chopped bell peppers over the fish.
5. Broil the tilapia fillets for 4 to 6 minutes, flipping once. Place the pan on the top rack of the oven, no further than 4 inches (10 cm) from the top heating element. At the 2 or 3 minute mark, flip the fillets and continue broiling. 1  Use a fish spatula or other flat, heat-resistant spatula to turn the fish. 1 You do not need to add the tomato, but the benefit of cooking tilapia in foil packets is that you cook vegetables with the fish while infusing the fillets with the flavor. 2  You can also layer chopped green onion, chopped sweet onion, or chopped bell peppers over the fish.
1 Place the tilapia fillets in the bottom of the baking dish and dot with butter. 2  Season with Old Bay seasoning and garlic salt. 3  Top each one with a slice or two of lemon. 4  Arrange the frozen mixed vegetables around the fish, and season lightly with salt and pepper. 1 Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees F). 2  Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish. 3  Place the tilapia fillets in the bottom of the baking dish and dot with butter. 4
Place the baking dish on the center rack in the oven and cook the fish for 15 to 18 minutes. When the fish is cooked, it should flake apart easily when prodded with the tines of a fork. Step 7. Remove the baking dish from the oven and allow the fish to rest for about five minutes before plating and serving it. 
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Coat a large cast iron pan with a nonstick butter spray. Rinse fish and pat dry; place on the cast iron pan. Season each fillet with salt, cracked pepper, lime zest and lime juice. Add fish to the pan. Place a pat of butter on each fillet and cook in the oven for 8 to 12 minutes. 
1 Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Place the tilapia fillets in the bottom of the baking dish and dot with butter. 3  Season with Old Bay seasoning and garlic salt. 4  Top each one with a slice or two of lemon. 5  Arrange the frozen mixed vegetables around the fish, and season lightly with salt and pepper. 1 Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees F). 2  Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish. 3  Place the tilapia fillets in the bottom of the baking dish and dot with butter. 4
Step 5. Set your oven to 325 degrees F, preheat and then bake the tilapia fillets, uncovered, for about 10 minutes. When your fish is ready, it will flake easily with a fork. TIPS: For additional flavor, slice a fresh lemon into wedges and serve with your baked tilapia. Mix together 1 tsp. dill weed, ¾ tsp. paprika and ¼ tsp. black pepper in a small bowl. Depending on your seasoning preference, this amount can season up to 1 lb. of tilapia fillets. Sprinkle the amount you prefer over each fillet and spray lightly with vegetable oil spray.
Mix together the lemon juice, butter, and black pepper. Combine the ingredients in a small dish. 1  You can also add other seasonings, like chopped herbs or onion powder, if desired. 2  Use no more than 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) concentrated powders, 1 tsp (5 ml) dried herbs, or 1 Tbsp (15 ml) fresh herbs. 1 You do not need to add the tomato, but the benefit of cooking tilapia in foil packets is that you cook vegetables with the fish while infusing the fillets with the flavor. 2  You can also layer chopped green onion, chopped sweet onion, or chopped bell peppers over the fish.
1 Place fillets in baking dish. 2  Pour lemon juice over fillets, then drizzle butter on top. 3  Sprinkle with garlic, parsley, and pepper. 4  Bake in preheated oven until the fish is white and flakes when pulled apart with a fork, about 30 minutes. 1 Pour lemon juice over fillets, then drizzle butter on top. 2  Sprinkle with garlic, parsley, and pepper. 3  Bake in preheated oven until the fish is white and flakes when pulled apart with a fork, about 30 minutes.