It takes approximately 6-8 weeks for the IRS to process and issue an ITIN, which will be sent to the student by mail. Any inquiry regarding an ITIN application status should be directed to the IRS hotline at 1-800-829-1040.
When I called ITIN # they said it takes 4-6 weeks to process the tax return and get a refund. I got refund the other day when my spouse got the ITIN. should be within a week in your case too. 1  0.
The average time to receive an ITIN is approximately 3-4 weeks. Applications mailed during high processing times (January 15 through April 30) or from abroad may take 8-10 weeks, so be sure to apply well before the U.S. Tax Return deadline of April 15.
If you qualify for an ITIN and your application is complete, you will receive a letter from the IRS assigning your tax identification number usually within six weeks (8 to 10 weeks if requested during peak tax time (January 15 through April 30) or from abroad).
You and any dependents claimed on your tax return must have either an SSN (Social Security number) or an ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Number), or your tax return will not be accepted by the IRS. If you are permitted to work in the United States, you should have an SSN.
You may not e-file a tax return(s) using an ITIN in the year in which it is received. If you apply for and receive an ITIN this year, you may not e-file any tax return using that ITIN (including prior year returns) until next year. (See Page 10 for additional information on e-filing).3.
The ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Number) is a U.S. taxpayer identification number,issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). It's for individuals who are required to have a taxpayer identification number for tax purposes, but who do not have, and are not eligible to obtain a Social Security Number (SSN).
If you are not eligible for an SSN you must obtain an ITIN. Form W-7, Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, is available from the same sources mentioned above. Also, IRS Publication 1915, Understanding ITINs, might be helpful. It can be downloaded from this IRS Forms and Publications page.
Therefore, all individuals must have a “tax purpose” for requesting an ITIN, whether or not a U.S. Federal income tax return is submitted to the IRS with Form W-7.To determine if you have a filing requirement, see Publication 17, “Your Federal Income Tax” or Publication 519, “A United States Tax Guide for Aliens”.