Thyroid Disease Symptoms and Signs. Thyroid disease is a common problem that can cause symptoms because of over-or under-function of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is an essential organ for producing thyroid hormones, which maintain are body metabolism. The thyroid gland is located in the front of the neck below the Adam's apple. 
Causes of hypothyroidism include: Hashimoto's disease. In this autoimmune disorder, the body’s own immune system attacks thyroid tissue, leading to reduced thyroid hormone. Removal of the thyroid gland. The thyroid may be surgically removed or chemically destroyed as a treatment for hyperthyroidism. Problems with the thyroid include overactive thyroid, or hyperthyroidism, and underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism. The thyroid gland in the neck makes hormones to help regulate the body's metabolism and a person's growth
The most common cause of hypothyroidism is Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid gland. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder. With Hashimoto’s, your body produces antibodies that attack and destroy the thyroid gland. Thyroiditis may also be caused by a viral infection. Other causes of hypothyroidism include: Radiation therapy to the neck area. Radioactive iodine treatment. This treatment is commonly prescribed to people who have an overactive thyroid gland, a condition known as hyperthyroidism. However, radiation destroys the cells in the thyroid gland. This usually leads to hypo
Thyroid Disease. (Also Called 'Thyroid Disease-Care & Treatment'). The thyroid is a small gland, shaped like a butterfly, that rests in the middle of the lower neck. Its primary function is to control the body's metabolism (rate at which cells perform duties essential to living). 1 This can lower the amount of hormones produced. 2  Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a painless disease of the immune system that is hereditary. 3  Postpartum thyroiditis occurs in 5 percent to 9 percent of women after giving birth.
Or it could be a symptom of another thyroid disease that requires treatment. Goiter is more common in women than in men and especially in women before menopause. Some common causes of goiter include: 1  Hashimoto's disease. 2  Graves' disease. 3  Thyroid nodules. 4  Thyroiditis. Or it could be a symptom of another thyroid disease that requires treatment. Goiter is more common in women than in men and especially in women before menopause. Some common causes of goiter include: 1  Hashimoto's diseas
Hypothyroidism, also called underactive thyroid disease, is a common disorder. With hypothyroidism, your thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone. The thyroid gland is located in the front lower part of your neck. Radioactive iodine treatment. This treatment is commonly prescribed to people who have an overactive thyroid gland, a condition known as hyperthyroidism. However, radiation destroys the cells in the thyroid gland. This usually leads to hypo
1 Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid gland. 2  This can lower the amount of hormones produced. 3  Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a painless disease of the immune system that is hereditary. 4  Postpartum thyroiditis occurs in 5 percent to 9 percent of women after giving birth. 1 This can lower the amount of hormones produced. 2  Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a painless disease of the immune system that is hereditary. 3
Thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is a condition in which your immune system attacks your thyroid, a small gland at the base of your neck below your Adam's apple. The thyroid gland is part of your endocrine system, which produces hormones that coordinate many of your body's activities. Hashimoto's disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It primarily affects middle-aged women but also can occur in men and women of any age and in children. Doctors test your thyroid function to help detect Hashimoto's disease. Treatment of Hashimoto's disease with thyroid hormone replacement usually is simple and effective. 1  Symptom