Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Germany's interest in North Africa was simple: Germany needed oil. As much as it could get and control. Working from the Italian foothold and expanding into Libya and Morocco, the Nazis hoped to obtain the oil needed to fuel their war machine. 
It was the Axis imperial alliance -- Germany, Japan and Italy. They were bent on world conquest, had already conquered most of Europe, and had to be stopped at a time and place of our choosing. So our first land attack came in North Africa, not the Pacific. It was the other side of the world. We fought Rommel in the desert, along with the British Army and the Free French, cut off his supplies by sea, and step-by-step drove the Germans and Italians back across Sicily and Italy.
In Russia. No,Russia never invaded,but France has once invaded Russia...that's for sure! Actually, Russia did invade France, but not as the aggressor country, the way Napoleon did to Ru … ssia. No, Morocco is a country in Africa. France is a country in  Europe. From 1912 to 1956, large portions of Morocco were a French  Protectorate. .
Iraq briefly sided with Germany until the British and Assyrian christians stopped them. RE The Soviet Union, the modern countries of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Moldova were all invaded as part of Germanys attack on the USSR. The Germans also attacked Britain and Malta but were defeated in their attempts. Hope this helps! Poland was next (which brought Britain and France into the war because we'd promised to defend Poland). The whole of the rest of Europe came after that (France was split. The official Vichy regime accepted occupation voluntarily but not willingly like the Austrians.
== France agrees to a conference on Morocco, only after Germany recognizes a special French role in the region - ~ French opposition to Germany and ties to Britain are strengthening. ==. Germany. France. ==. ==. == The Kaiser visits the Sultan of Morocco in Tangiers, in effect denying French claims in the region-THE FIRST MOROCCAN CRISIS to Apr 1906, engineered by Holstein, with the possible intent of provoking a preventive war against France-RECURRENT EUROPEAN CRISES TO 1914. Germany.
Germany conquered Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and France in spring 1940 which forced Britain to withdraw from Dunkirk. Hitler invaded the Soviet Union in 1941. Poland was next (which brought Britain and France into the war because we'd promised to defend Poland). The whole of the rest of Europe came after that (France was split. The official Vichy regime accepted occupation voluntarily but not willingly like the Austrians.
Germany felt threatened by the loose alignment between France and Britain. Twice, Berlin came up with the scheme of deliberately provoking a crisis by challenging the growing French influence in Morocco, hoping to humiliate France and force it to break off its association with Britain. ==. ==. == The Kaiser visits the Sultan of Morocco in Tangiers, in effect denying French claims in the region-THE FIRST MOROCCAN CRISIS to Apr 1906, engineered by Holstein, with the possible intent of provoking a preventive war against France-RECURRENT EUROPEAN CRISES TO 1914. Germany.
An attack on French North Africa was proposed instead, which would clear the Axis powers from North Africa, improve naval control of the Mediterranean Sea, and prepare for an invasion of Southern Europe in 1943. With help from the Resistance, the Allies also succeeded in slipping French General Henri Giraud out of Vichy France on HMS Seraph —passing itself off as an American submarine—intending to offer him the post of commander in chief of French forces in North Africa after the invasion.