Why does a DNA molecule consist of two strands? The primary function of DNA is to store and transmit genetic information. To accomplish this function DNA must have two properties. 
Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses The backbone of the DNA strand is made from alternating phosphate and sugar residues. The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, which is a pentose (five-carbon) sugar. The sugars are joined together by phosphate groups that form phosphodiester bonds between the third and fifth carbon atoms of adjacent sugar rings.
1 The double in the double helix means that DNA is found in a double-stranded form - 2 single-stranded chains of DNA stuck to each other via hydrogen bonding of the base pairs. 2  The 2 single-strands are anti-parallel to each other. 3  Going from 5' to 3' of one strand means going from 3' to 5' of the other strand. 1 Watson-Crick model of DNA; double helix. 2  The double in the double helix means that DNA is found in a double-stranded form - 2 single-stranded chains of DNA stuck to each other via hydrogen bonding of the base pairs. 3  The 2 single-strands are anti-parallel to each other
Genes are made of a chemical called DNA, which is short for 'deoxyribonucleic acid'. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase. The DNA double helix showing base pairs. The sides are sugar and phosphate molecules. The rungs are pairs of chemicals called 'nitrogenous bases', or 'bases' for short
DNA Structure and Function. 1  Watson-Crick model of DNA; double helix. 2  The double in the double helix means that DNA is found in a double-stranded form - 2 single-stranded chains of DNA stuck to each other via hydrogen bonding of the base pairs. 3  The 2 single-strands are anti-parallel to each other. 1 Watson-Crick model of DNA; double helix. 2  The double in the double helix means that DNA is found in a double-stranded form - 2 single-stranded chains of DNA stuck to each other via hydrogen bonding of the base pairs.
To manufacture protein molecules, a cell must first transfer information from DNA to mRNA through the process of transcription. Then, a process called translation uses this mRNA as a template for protein assembly. 
1 A molecule of a DNA polymerase binds to one strand of the DNA and begins moving along it in the 3' to 5' direction, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand of nucleotides and reforming a double helix. 2  In eukaryotes, this molecule is called DNA polymerase epsilon (ε). 1 A portion of the double helix is unwound by a helicase. 2 
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. The bases on one strand pair with the bases on another strand: adenine pairs with thymine, and guanine pairs with cytosine. DNA molecules are long — so long, in fact, that they can't fit into cells without the right packaging. To fit inside cells, DNA is coiled tightly to form structures we call chromosomes.
DNA (or deoxyribonucleic acid) is the molecule that carries the genetic information in all cellular forms of life and some viruses. It belongs to a class of molecules called the nucleic acids, which are polynucleotides-that is, long chains of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three components: In eukaryotes, DNA molecules are tightly wound around proteins-called histone proteins-which provide structural support and play a role in controlling the activities of the genes. A strand 150 to 200 nucleotides long is wrapped twice around a core of eight histone proteins to form a structure called a nucleosome.