If you are in there for your 10,000 mile maintenance brake job, than by all means have them resurfaced. A lot of places will even resurface them for free or a very small fee when you buy pads. If it’s a regular maintenance thing, than resurfacing them once or twice is perfectly fine. If you’re just keeping your ship tight with regular brake maintenance, resurfacing is fine and will get you a few extra miles on your rotors. If you’re noticing a problem, sound, or vibration, than you’re dealing with a bigger problem and should replace them. We try to keep it simple. Safety first!
Labor: $182 - $231. Parts: $72 - $130. The average cost for a brake pad replacement, resurface rotors is between $254 to $361. Labor costs are estimated between $182 to $231 while parts are priced between $72 to $130. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. The brake rotors should be inspected when the pads are replaced, and depending on their condition, they may need resurfacing or replacement. We recommend braking gently for the first 40 to 50 miles of driving on new pads. This will allow them to adjust to the rotors and help prevent squeaking.
Parts: $51 - $97. The average cost for a brake shoe replacement, resurface drums is between $252 to $352. Labor costs are estimated between $201 to $255 while parts are priced between $51 to $97. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
Considering the cost of rotors these days, resurfacing and replacing can be as little as a $50 difference. If you’re just keeping your ship tight with regular brake maintenance, resurfacing is fine and will get you a few extra miles on your rotors. If you’re noticing a problem, sound, or vibration, than you’re dealing with a bigger problem and should replace them. We try to keep it simple. Safety first!
Google+. Brake Rotor Replacement vs Resurfacing. We’ve all heard the sound before; worn, cracked or “warped” brake rotors going wub wub wub wub wub wub wub every time we hit the brake pedal. Brake rotors are among the more frequently replaced parts on your vehicle, and one of the most important safety-wise to maintain. If you’re just keeping your ship tight with regular brake maintenance, resurfacing is fine and will get you a few extra miles on your rotors. If you’re noticing a problem, sound, or vibration, than you’re dealing with a bigger problem and should replace them. We try to keep it simple. Safety first!
The most basic brake service is installing new disc brake pads on the old caliper and rotor. Doing the math, the wholesale cost of the economy brake pad is $30 and the OE-specified ceramic pad is $90. At a 40% profit margin, the ­retail prices of the pads are $50 and $150, ­respectively. The gross profit of each is one labor hour plus $20 for the economy pads and one labor hour plus $50 for the ceramic pads. 
JUST REPLACE THEM? As inexpensive as many aftermarket rotors are today, it’s quite affordable to simply replace the rotors rather than resurface them. Some auto parts stores offer free resurfacing to customers who purchase pads, while others charge a nominal fee for resurfacing ($10 to $20 per rotor). 