Functions. Conventional ovens are used to perform a wide variety of cooking tasks. They can grill or roast meat such as beef, chicken and turkey, as well as bake breads, cakes and pastries. Additionally, they can be used to reheat food that has already been cooked.
Convection ovens are often more expensive than standard, or radiant, ovens, but they cook food faster, at a lower temperature, and often with better results. Fans ensure that the same temperature reaches the top and bottom of foods, as well as foods at all rack levels.
It comes down to how the heat is distributed. Both convection and conventional ovens are powered by gas or electricity. But the heat source in a conventional oven is stationary, usually radiating from the bottom, while in a convection oven a fan circulates the hot air around the chamber.
A conventional oven is an appliance used for roasting, heating, baking and broiling foods. The oven uses electricity or gas as a source of fuel and can heat dishes from above or below. Conventional ovens differ in their controls, appearance and features from model to model.
Conventional ovens are used to perform a wide variety of cooking tasks. They can grill or roast meat such as beef, chicken and turkey, as well as bake breads, cakes and pastries. Additionally, they can be used to reheat food that has already been cooked.
Very simply put, a convection oven has a fan and exhaust system that a regular oven does not. The fan and exhaust help blow hot oven air over and around the food, then vent it back out. As a result, this hot air surrounds the food so that it cooks evenly and more quickly.
A convection oven uses a fan to circulate the heated air inside the oven and standard ovens do not have this feature. The circulating air transfers heat to foods more efficiently than stagnant air does. This feature makes it possible to cook foods faster than conventional ovens.
In conventional ovens, the heat comes from a single source which is usually at the bottom of the oven. Convection ovens feature a circulation system that moves air throughout the oven chamber to heat it evenly.
A convection oven cooks food differently than a conventional oven does, but they both can cook the same types of foods. Basically, the biggest difference between the two is convection ovens use forced heated air to cook food while conventional ovens use radiant heat.