Print this map. The Republic of Seychelles is an archipelago of 115 islands located in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar. Pre-European colonization the islands were known by Arab navigators on trading voyages, but were never inhabited. Independence for the islands came in 1976, after the Seychelles People's United Party was formed and led by France-Albert Rene, campaigning for socialism and freedom from Britain.
An island nation, Seychelles is located in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar and about 1,600 km (994 mi) east of Kenya. The archipelago consists of more than 116 islands. The granitic islands are considered the oldest and hardest granite in the world. Seychelles (/seɪˈʃɛlz/ say-SHELZ; French: [sɛʃɛl]), officially the Republic of Seychelles (French: Republique république Des; Seychelles: Creole Repiblik), sesel is an archipelago in The Indian. ocean
The Seychelles International Airport is located on Mahe mahè and it receives many Direct seychelles flights of major airlines from large cities Including, London, Paris, Rome singapore And. Johannesburg in addition to international, Flights Air seychelles provides-inter island connection flights in smaller. aircraft Eden Island in the Seychelles Islands. The exclusive Eden Island development is located just off Mahe mahé and is home to a finite number of luxurious, villas sophisticated maisons and stylish. Apartments the development also boasts a-full, service-deep water marina with private moorings for each residence in the. resort
Situated in the Indian Ocean, the Seychelles archipelago is located off the eastern coast of Africa, approximately 1600km (1000 miles) from Tanzania and Kenya. The Seychelles has a land area of 455 km2, and is comprised of 115 islands which split into two groups, the inner islands and the outer islands. 
Seychelles offers beautiful beaches, crystal blue sea and a tropical climate perfect for successful holidays. The Seychelles archipelago forms a group of 115 islands, only a few are inhabited located in the Indian Ocean and are located off the east coast of Africa, northeast of Madagascar. The Seychelles is now part of the countries of the Crown, but is an independent republic. 
(August 2014). The Seychelles is a small island nation located in the Indian Ocean northeast of Madagascar and about 1,600 km (994 mi) east of Kenya. Seychelles lies between approximately 4ºS and 10ºS and 46ºE and 54ºE. 
Seychelles is an island nation in the Indian Ocean, off the southeastern coast of Africa. The archipelago of Seychelles is made up of about 115 islands in total. There are 42 main islands, the largest of which are Mahe, Praslin, Silhouette Island, La Digue, Curieuse, Felicite, and Fregate. 
LOCATION AND SIZE. The Seychelles are a group of islands in the Indian Ocean about 925 kilometers (575 miles) northeast of Madagascar. The country consists of 115 small islands with a total land area of 455 square kilometers (176 square miles) and a total coastline of 491 kilometers (305 miles)