RUSSELL Surname Meaning & Origin: Russell is a common patronymic surname derived from the given name Rousel, old French for someone with red hair or a red face. Russell is the 93rd most popular surname in the United States and England, and the 47th most common surname in Scotland. Surname Origin: English, Scottish, Irish.
To find out more about your history, click on 'Search for a Surname'. Welcome to the Great Britain Family Names Profiling website which presents the findings of a project based at University College London (UCL) that is investigating the distribution of surnames in Great Britain, both current and historic.
This is one of the most famous and noble names in British history since the Conquest of 1066, when it was a Norman introduction. Over sixty Coats of Arms have been granted to bearers of this illustrious name, one of the earliest being that of the Russells of Shropshire, which depicts, on a black shield, a fess between six gold martlets. The martlet signifies one who subsists on wings of virtue and merit, having little land to rest upon. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Robert Rousel, which was dated 1115, in the Winton Rolls of Hampshire, during the reign of King Henry 1, known as The Administrator, 1100 - 1135. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxa
This page or section lists people with the surname Russell. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link. 1 William Russell, Lord Russell (1638–1683), son of the 1st Duke and father of the 2nd; executed for treason for his involvement in the Rye House Plot.
Tucker, Lee ~ Artist/Photographer-New Orleans-Lee Tucker fine art painter and photographer has lived and worked in New Orleans for 39 years capturing the essence of the city in his art work. View online gallery for a taste of this New Orleans artist. Barnes, Renee Lowe Portraits and Fine Art LLC-Metairie-New Orleans artist Renee Barnes brings quality and affordable portraits hand drawn or painted from your photo! I produce portraits in the following mediums: graphite pencil, color pencil, pastel, watercolor and acrylic.
Alternate Surname Spellings: RUSSEL, RUSELL. Famous People with the Surname RUSSELL: 1  Robert C. Russell-inventor of the Soundex system for indexing names by the way they sound. 2  James Russell-invented the compact disk (CD) in 1965. Russell is the 93rd most popular surname in the United States and England, and the 47th most common surname in Scotland. Surname Origin: English, Scottish, Irish.
The nickname was a diminutive of the Anglo-Norman rus (Old French ros), meaning 'red' (only hair and skin colour) The nickname, with the diminutive suffix-el added, likely originated to denote the reddish skinned or haired one. 1 William Russell, Lord Russell (1638–1683), son of the 1st Duke and father of the 2nd; executed for treason for his involvement in the Rye House Plot.
Bertrand Russell was born on the 18th of May, 1872 at Ravenscroft, Trellech, Monmouthshire, into an influential and liberal family of the British aristocracy. His parents, Viscount and Viscountess Amberley, were radical for their times. This was often a drain on Russell's energy, but Russell continued to be fascinated by him and encouraged his academic development, including the publication of Wittgenstein's Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus in 1922.