The Doldrums are regions of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans that have little if any wind. This was a particular problem for sailors in the past when they depended on the winds to propel their ships, a problem that could be potentially deadly. The trade winds border the Doldrums both to the north and south. Then there are the prevailing westerlies in the higher latitudes and the polar easterlies near both poles. The rising moist air in the Doldrums can spawn tropical storms and hurricanes.
Doldrums vs Horse Latitudes. Doldrums and horse latitudes are specific ocean regions on the Earth. Specifically, doldrums are ocean belts near the equator. The region is characterized as having little or no wind. 1.Both doldrums and horse latitudes are ocean areas characterized by weak or no air flow for a prolonged period of time. Both areas are also placed in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. In addition, both places are near the equator.
The doldrums exist in a belt circling the globe, near the equator; this belt consistently features low atmospheric pressure, a lack of significant winds and weather that is often cloudy and rainy. The doldrums separate the trade winds in the northern hemisphere from the trade winds in the southern hemisphere. At the doldrums, warm air rises and flows away from the equator until about 30 degrees north and south latitude, respectively, where it descends.
Full Definition of DOLDRUMS. 1. : a spell of listlessness or despondency. 2. often capitalized: a part of the ocean near the equator abounding in calms, squalls, and light shifting winds. 3. : a state or period of inactivity, stagnation, or slump. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The Doldrums are located a little north of the equator, but the effects can be felt from 5 degrees north of the equator to 5 degrees south of it. The trade winds border the Doldrums both to the north and south. Then there are the prevailing westerlies in the higher latitudes and the polar easterlies near both poles. The rising moist air in the Doldrums can spawn tropical storms and hurricanes.
The doldrums is a colloquial expression derived from historical maritime usage, in which it refers to those parts of the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean affected by the Intertropical Convergence Zone, a low-pressure area around the equator where the prevailing winds are calm. The doldrums are also noted for calm periods when the winds disappear altogether, trapping sail-powered boats for periods of days or weeks. The term appears to have arisen in the 18th century, when cross-Equator sailing voyages became more common.
Doldrums. Sailors noticed the stillness of the rising (and not blowing) air near the equator and gave the region the depressing name doldrums.. The doldrums, usually located between 5° north and 5° south of the equator, are also known as the Intertropical Convergence Zone or ITCZ for short. The trade winds converge in the region of the ITCZ, producing convectional storms that produce some of the world's heaviest precipitation regions. 
1 Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 2  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 3  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums. 4  variable: meaning and definitions-variable: Definition and Pronunciation. More on doldrums from Infoplease: 1  doldrums: meaning and definitions-doldrums: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 3  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 4
1 equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums. 2  variable: meaning and definitions-variable: Definition and Pronunciation. 3  trade winds-trade winds trade winds, movement of air toward the equator, from the NE in the Northern Hemisphere ... More on doldrums from Infoplease: 1  doldrums: meaning and definitions-doldrums: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 3  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 4 