Fungal cells have a cell wall, like the plant cells. But the fungal wall is made of chitin, whereas, plant cell wall is made of cellulose. Plant cells also have chloroplasts … and are green. Fungal cells do not have chloroplasts. Answer   You would have to be more specific on what type of fungus you would like to treat, on what type of plant.   Your question is too broad. Different fungi are ca … used by different situations, mostly environmental. Temperature and moisture generally play a key role in fungal control.
A fungus (plural: fungi) is a kind of living organism: yeasts, moulds and mushrooms are types of fungi. The fungi are a separate kingdom of living things, different from animals and plants. Fungi have cells with nuclei. Their cell walls contain chitin, unlike the cell walls of plants, which contain cellulose. These and other differences show that the fungi form a single group of related organisms, called the Eumycota or Eumycetes.
The fungus may appear on the foliage, near the base of the plant or even on the fruit and flowers of the plant. Though some fungal outbreaks can be a simple cosmetic hassle, other fungal outbreaks can cause permanent injury and even death of the plant. The fungal species that cause these outbreaks vary by the millions. Once a plant is introduced into the area, the fungus attacks the plant through its root system, killing the tissues and cells that are responsible for transporting the water and nutrients throughout the plant's system. This permanent damage causes dieback, wilting, and drooping as the tree starves for nutrients.
Best Answer: Actually, a mushroom is a fungus. Scientists used to think that mushrooms and other fungi (plural of fungus) were plants. Now they know that fungi are very different from plants. Fungi get their food in a different way than plants. They also reproduce differently from plant
Mildew is a common fungus that infects plants. Plant fungus is more easily controlled by using preventative measures. If your plants or vegetable crops have become infected with fungi, however, you can kill it with a fungicide. Common types of fungus seen on plants include powdery mildew, leaf spot, blight, root rot and white mold
Fungi is not considered a plant because scientists arent sure whether to call it a plant or an animal. in the fungal cell it has a cell wall which is only in plant cells but i … t also has all the parts in an animal cell in it. this makes it neither plant or animal. :). Answer   You would have to be more specific on what type of fungus you would like to treat, on what type of plant.   Your question is too broad. Different fungi are ca … used by different situations, mostly environmental. Temperature and moisture generally play a key role in fungal control.
Fungi is a Kingdom Plant is a Kingdom A Fungi is not a plant, a plant is not a fungi. In the US are six kingdoms, all of which have specific characteristics. Animals, Plants, Fungi, Protista, Archaea, and Eubacteria. In the UK and Austrailia there are 5... Animal, Plant, Fungi, Protista, and Monera. 
A fungus is different from a plant because a fungus doesn't have the ability to make its own food by photosynthesis. It also has walls made of chitin (also found in insects), … not cellulose as in plants. Answer   You would have to be more specific on what type of fungus you would like to treat, on what type of plant.   Your question is too broad. Different fungi are ca … used by different situations, mostly environmental. Temperature and moisture generally play a key role in fungal control.
Fungi (Singular: fungus) are classified within their own kingdom-The Kingdom Fungi, while some are in The Kingdom Protista. A fungus is neither a plant nor an animal. It is similar to a plant, but it has no chlorophyll and cannot make its own food like a plant can through photosynthesis. For a long time fungi were classified as plants, mainly because of their similar lifestyles-both are seen to grow in soil and are sessile (permanently attached; not moving). Plant and fungal cells both have a cell wall, while cells from the animal kingdom don't.