by K.Ramnarayan and Shyamala Hande. Self-directed learning (SDL) has been identified as an important skill for medical graduates. To meet the challenges in today's healthcare environment, self-directed learning is most essential. Several health care institutions have made SDLs a part of the curriculum. The third reason is that many of the new developments in education put a heavy responsibility on the learners to take a good deal of initiative in their own learning
A process in which a student is responsible for organising and managing his or her own learning activities and needs. SDL encourages individuals to become responsible for their own learning, identify gaps in their knowledge gaps and critically appraise new information. 
Self-directed learning is not a new concept. In fact, much has been written about it. Unfortunately, however, it is a notion that has a variety of interpretations and applications in the corporate training arena. Typical, narrow interpretations involve simply giving learners some sort of choice in their learning. This interpretation is too limited. Self-directed learning is much more. Using the analogy of taking a trip, the narrow interpretation of SDL is equivalent to selecting where to go, i.e., the destination. The essence of the notion of self-directed learning advocated here, however, is broader, more fundamental
Communication of learning goals between a student and the advising faculty member is critical (See the CTE teaching tip on Unit Planning Decision Guide) . Learning contracts are highly recommended tools for successful self-directed learning experiences (see example on CTE’s  Learning Contracts teaching tip). This is a great resource for instructors as they facilitate self-directed learning courses and for students as they design their own learning contracts. 1  Simpson, O. (2000). 2  The author provides a comprehensive look at supporting students in independent study environments.
In terms of e-learning, the fact that learners can determine which modules or scenarios to review is also frequently touted as self-directed learning.The fact that the learner has a choice and makes a decision to select this or that module does not constitute true self-directed learning. This interpretation is too limited. Self-directed learning is much more. Using the analogy of taking a trip, the narrow interpretation of SDL is equivalent to selecting where to go, i.e., the destination. The essence of the notion of self-directed learning advocated here, however, is broader, more fundamental
Self-directed learning (SDL) has been identified as an important skill for medical graduates. To meet the challenges in today's healthcare environment, self-directed learning is most essential. The third reason is that many of the new developments in education put a heavy responsibility on the learners to take a good deal of initiative in their own learning
“ Self-directed learning is a continuous engagement in acquiring, applying and creating knowledge and skills in the context of an individual learner's unique problems. Effectively supporting self-directed learning is one of the critical challenges in supporting lifelong learning. 1 Self-directed learning: Emerging theory and practice. 2  In H. B. Long & Associates, Self-directed learning: Emerging theory and practice. 3  Norman, OK: Oklahoma Research Center for Continuing Professional and Higher Education.
Thus it is important attain new knowledge easily and skillfully the rest of his or her life. Lifelong, self-directed learning (SDL) has been identified as an important ability for medical graduates (Harvey, 2003). The third reason is that many of the new developments in education put a heavy responsibility on the learners to take a good deal of initiative in their own learning. To meet the challenges in today's healthcare environment, self-directed learning is most essential.
1 The focus of the survey was to identify what self-directed learning activities were being used in their curriculum. 2  In adult learning orientation, learners are responsible for their own learning, and they use self-learning modules in self-directed study. 