Meaning: A liquid ester with a strong odor of wintergreen; applied externally for minor muscle and joint pain. Classified under: Nouns denoting substances. Synonyms: birch oil; methyl salicylate; sweet-birch oil.ypernyms (methyl salicylate is a kind of...): salicylate (a salt of salicylic acid (included in several commonly used drugs)). Holonyms (methyl salicylate is a substance of...): oil of wintergreen; wintergreen oil (oil or flavoring obtained from the creeping wintergreen or teaberry plant).
The noun SALICYLATE has 1 sense: 1. a salt of salicylic acid (included in several commonly used drugs). Familiarity information: SALICYLATE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.• SALICYLATE (noun).
Definition of SALICYLATE. : a salt or ester of salicylic acid.ADVERTISEMENT.
sa·lic·y·late. n. A salt, ester, or anion of salicylic acid. [ salicyl(ic acid) + -ate .]. (səˈlɪsɪˌleɪt).alicylate. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) any salt or ester
sa·lic·y·late. n. A salt, ester, or anion of salicylic acid. [ salicyl(ic acid) + -ate .].
Medical Definition of SALICYLATE. : a salt or ester of salicylic acid; also: salicylic acid.efinition of SALICYLATE. : a salt or ester of salicylic acid. ADVERTISEMENT.
The noun METHYL SALICYLATE has 1 sense: 1. a liquid ester with a strong odor of wintergreen; applied externally for minor muscle and joint pain. Familiarity information: METHYL SALICYLATE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.ypernyms (methyl salicylate is a kind of...): salicylate (a salt of salicylic acid (included in several commonly used drugs)). Holonyms (methyl salicylate is a substance of...): oil of wintergreen; wintergreen oil (oil or flavoring obtained from the creeping wintergreen or teaberry plant).
Salicylate sensitivity, also known as salicylate intolerance, is any adverse effect that occurs when a usual amount of salicylate is ingested. People with salicylate intolerance are unable to consume a normal amount of salicylate without adverse effects.alicylate sensitivity differs from salicylism, which occurs when an individual takes an overdose of salicylates. Salicylate overdose can occur in people without salicylate sensitivity, and can be deadly if untreated.
Strawberries are very high in naturally occurring salicylates. Salicylate Sensitivity. A portion of the population may be sensitive to salicylates, much in the same way one may be sensitive to a food.A person with salicylate sensitivities may be able to tolerate certain foods and products that contain the compounds but not others.
salicylate. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) any salt or ester of salicylic acid.(səˈlɪs əˌleɪt, -lɪt, ˌsael ˌsæl əˈsɪl, eɪt ˈsael-). ˈsæl. əˌsɪl n