Konrad Zuse earned the semiofficial title of inventor of the modern computer for his series of automatic calculators, which he invented to help him with his lengthy engineering calculations. Paper was in short supply in Germany during the war. According to The Life and Work of Konrad Zuse (by Horst Zuse). The block structure of the Z3 is very similar to a modern computer.
We could argue that the first computer was the abacus or its descendant, the slide rule, invented by William Oughtred in 1622. But the first computer resembling today's modern machines was the Analytical Engine, a device conceived and designed by British mathematician Charles Babbage between 1833 and 1871.
A computer is a general-purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a set of arithmetic or logical operations automatically. Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than one kind of problem. 
Lots More Information. The Programmer and the Prophet. If Charles Babbage was the genius behind the Analytic Engine, then Augusta Ada Byron, or Ada Lovelace, was the publicist (and, arguably, the very first computer programmer). She met Babbage at a party when she was 17 and became fascinated by the mathematician's computer engine. 
Still others will say the abacus is the first computer. They were invented by the Chinese between 2600 BC and 300 BC is considered as the first computer ever. Abacus was used by the merchants and Clerks in China. 1 Charles Babbage invented the concept of a programmable computer in about 1825. 2  It partly depends on what you mean by computer, but the earliest claim is that Charles Babbage invented the first programmable computer in 1822.
Inventors of the Modern Computer. The First Freely Programmable Computer invented by Konrad Zuse. By Mary Bellis. In 1941, the Z3 contained almost all of the features of a modern computer as defined by John von Neumann and his colleagues in 1946. The only exception was the ability to store the program in the memory together with the data. Paper was in short supply in Germany during the war. According to The Life and Work of Konrad Zuse (by Horst Zuse). The block structure of the Z3 is very similar to a modern computer.
The first working computer (in the modern sense) was invented  by Konrad Zuse. But others had created machines or ideas close to  it before. These were people like Pascal, Leibniz and Turing.     The first patent for a working computer (outside the military)  was the UNIVAC, created by Drs. Yes I've heard of Babbage from the Uk, I heard of Zuse the German engineer or ancient eygptians inventing a computer. Well I know the word computer can be confusing, a calculator is a computer, so actually none of those inventors come close to a modern home computer.
The invention of the modern computer keyboard can be traced back to the invention of the typewriter. As with many other modern machines, like airplane, automobile, telephone, television, etc., a number of people contributed insights and inventions that eventually resulted in a commercially successful product, the same happened with the invention of the typewriter (and the computer keyboard).
1 The first working computer (in the modern sense) was invented by Konrad Zuse. 2  But others had created machines or ideas close to it before. 3  These were people like Pascal, Leibniz and Turing. 4  The first patent for a working computer (outside the military) was the UNIVAC, created by Drs. 1 Charles Babbage invented the concept of a programmable computer in about 1825. 2  It partly depends on what you mean by computer, but the earliest claim is that Charles Babbage invented the first programmable computer in 1822.
Who invented the computer? is not a question with a simple answer. The real answer is that many inventors contributed to the history of computers and that a computer is a complex piece of machinery made up of many parts, each of which can be considered a separate invention.