Ad. Each juxtamedullary nephron has another feature that is different from a cortical nephron. A special elongated and U-shaped network of blood vessels runs alongside each loop of Henle. These blood vessels are involved in the process of urine concentration, as they move sodium out into the medulla of the kidney. Part of the juxtamedullary nephron, a U-shaped tube called the loop of Henle, is longer than that of a cortical nephron and dips right down into the inner medulla. This plays an important part in the formation of urine. There are many nephrons inside a kidney, probably around a million in total.
The two general classes of nephrons are cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons, both of which are classified according to the length of their associated Loop of Henle and location of their renal corpuscle. It then moves into the vasa recta, which are only found in juxtamedullary nephrons and not cortical nephrons. The vasa recta are collecting capillaries intertwined with the loop of Henle through the interstitial space, in which the reabsorbed substances will also enter.
There are two types of nephrons, referred to as cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons. A cortical nephron sits in the outer part of the kidney, known as the cortex, while a juxtamedullary nephron sits closer to the inner part of the kidney, called the medulla. Part of the juxtamedullary nephron, a U-shaped tube called the loop of Henle, is longer than that of a cortical nephron and dips right down into the inner medulla. This plays an important part in the formation of urine. There are many nephrons inside a kidney, probably around a million in total.
Cortical nephrons have their Loop of Henle in the renal medulla near its junction with the renal cortex, while the Loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is located deep in the renal medulla; they are called juxtamedullary because their renal corpuscle is located near the medulla (but still in the cortex). It then moves into the vasa recta, which are only found in juxtamedullary nephrons and not cortical nephrons. The vasa recta are collecting capillaries intertwined with the loop of Henle through the interstitial space, in which the reabsorbed substances will also enter.
Juxtamedullary nephron, on the other hand, have a loop of Henle that extends past the cortex and into the medulla of the kidney. Blood arrives to the nephron due to the afferent arteriole. This arteriole then divides into a mass of capillaries, called the glomerulus. Each kidney in a human contains about a million nephrons. These nephrons make the actual changes to the blood composition. There are two types of nephron: cortical nephron and juxtamedullary nephron. The main difference in the two types of nephron is the length to which the loop of Henle extends into the kidney. Cortical nephron, which are about eighty percent of the nephron in humans, have a loop of Henle that does not extend past the cortex of the kidney
In other words, a juxtamedullary nephron is one where the renal corpuscle is close to the medulla, and the proximal convoluted tubule and its associated loop of Henle occur at a deep position compared to most other nephrons. This type of nephron is relatively rare, and only comprise 20–30% of the nephrons in the human kidney. However, in most depictions of the nephron, it is a juxtamedullary nephron which is depicted. The greater gradient in the deep medulla make this type of nephron do more work than more shallow nephrons, and their vertical nature makes them easier to illustrate
Medullary refers to the renal medulla, while the juxta (Latin: near) refers to the relative position of the renal corpuscle, which in these nephrons is near the medulla (but still in cortex. junction) . This type of nephron is relatively rare, and only comprise 20–30% of the nephrons in the human kidney. However, in most depictions of the nephron, it is a juxtamedullary nephron which is depicted. The greater gradient in the deep medulla make this type of nephron do more work than more shallow nephrons, and their vertical nature makes them easier to illustrate
Structure [edit]. The two general classes of nephrons are cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons, both of which are classified according to the length of their associated Loop of Henle and location of their renal corpuscle. All nephrons have their renal corpuscles in the cortex. It then moves into the vasa recta, which are only found in juxtamedullary nephrons and not cortical nephrons. The vasa recta are collecting capillaries intertwined with the loop of Henle through the interstitial space, in which the reabsorbed substances will also enter.