However, the game of basketball changes game length depending on where it is played. An international game of basketball last only forty minutes as it is divided up into four 10-minute quarters. In NCCA college basketball, the game still last 40 minutes. However, there it is divided up into two 20-minute quarters. The longest NBA game took place on January 6th in 1951. The 48 minutes it takes to play through a full game divided into four 12-minute quarters. Of course, the game itself is stopped constantly, thus making the game longer than it actually is. Reasons time stops in a game include fouls, out of bounds ball, timeout, and a 15-minute halftime.
An NBA game court is 94 feet long and 50 feet wide, divided in half by a midcourt line. Each half is a mirror image of the other. This diagram shows some of the key markings and areas of an NBA basketball court. 
Best Answer: Well, they are usually 2 and a half hours long, but the actual game time is way less than that. They have commercials and when calls are made, time isn't taken off the clock, such as fouls. I think the actual time for all 4 quarters is 48 minutes, 12 each. an average nba game is about 2:30 hours long. there's 4 quarters. each quarter is 12 minutes long, but then there's the halftime, commericials, and sometimes it goes into overtime, then there's the technical fouls and the fouls, and the timeouts, so it adds up to about 2:30 hours long so yea the game is over.
A basketball game (NBA) is technically only 48 minutes. However, with half-time, timeouts, fouls, and close games, a basketball game is actually around 2 1/2 hours. The game is divided into 4 quarters, each 12 minutes long. Should the score be tied at the end of the fourth quarter, the game will go into a 5 minute overtime period. Should the game be tied at the end of overtime, there will be a 5 minute second overtime, and so on. A professional game is generally 48 minutes of playing time broken down into 4-12 minute quarters.   A college game is 40 minutes of playing time broken down into 2-2 … 0 minute halves.   A high school game is 32 or 36 minutes of playing time depending on the state.
Answer by Squirrel Man. Confidence votes 43.9K. An NBA game consists of 48 minutes of play. However, with timeouts, halftime, free throws, and other parts of the game that cause time to stop, NBA games actually last around 2 hours and 15 minutes. The games usually last between 2 hours and 15 minutes and 2 hours and 30 minutes.
NBA basketball seems to be an outlier. Basketball is also the only main sport that differs in how long it is between college and professional games. A college basketball game is forty minutes, divided not into quarters but into two twenty minute halves. Thanks, Sandra. Dear Sandra, Rest easy, you were not missing the game! An NBA basketball game is forty eight minutes long and made up of four twelve minute quarters.
About Basketball Periods. A regulation game of NBA basketball is 48 minutes. The 48 minutes it takes to play through a full game divided into four 12-minute quarters. Of course, the game itself is stopped constantly, thus making the game longer than it actually is. Reasons time stops in a game include fouls, out of bounds ball, timeout, and a 15-minute halftime.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. normally 2 and a half hours, depending if the game is a nail biter, or a blowout the halftime is 15 minutes, time outs are around 2 minutes (6 for each team), quarter breaks (after 1 and 3) are 3 minutes you do the math also, free throws take time, around 1 minute for two attempts. 
College basketball games are 40 minutes, with no quarters but instead two 20 minute halves. If the score is tied at the end of regulation, the game will proceed into a five minute bonus period called overtime, similar to the NBA. A professional game is generally 48 minutes of playing time broken down into 4-12 minute quarters.   A college game is 40 minutes of playing time broken down into 2-2 … 0 minute halves.   A high school game is 32 or 36 minutes of playing time depending on the state.