Answer by Rob Flanders. Confidence votes 24.9K. History on the post-it note:His name was Arthur (Art) Fry. When he was an employee for a company called 3m that made plastics, laminates and glues, he came across a glue on the shelf that was made by Spencer Silver. It was previously shelved because the glue was only half-glue and of no use as a real glue. Arthur Fry did not invent Post-it note glue. It was invented by Spencer Silver, a research chemist at 3M Company where Fry also worked. Fry learned about Silver's new glue.
It was invented by 3M's Art Fry using an adhesive developed by a colleague, Spencer Silver. Until the 1990s, when the patent expired, Post-it Brand notes were only produced in the 3M plant in Cynthiana, Kentucky. The term Post-it and the canary yellow color are trademarks of 3M. Accepted generic terms for competitors include sticky notes, repositionable notes, and repositional notes. 3M manufactures other products related to the Post-it Brand note concept, leveraging the success of the brand.
1 Post-It notes are occasionally used in art-work. 2  One such famous example was in 2008 when Shay Hovell used 12,000 Post-It notes to create a replica of the Mona Lisa. 3  The most expensive Post-It note art piece was done by R.B. Kitaj and sold for £640 (about $1000) in 2000. So after 5 years of constant rejection for the adhesive and another seven years in development and initial rejection, Post-It notes were finally a hit and have since become a mainstay in offices the world over, today being one of the top five best selling office supply products in the world.
Who Invented Post Its. Back in 1968, a scientist named Dr Spencer Silver developed the ‘low tack’ adhesive that is today found on each Post-it note. For five years he promoted it to 3M, the company he worked for, but they did not like the idea. Who Invented Post Its. 23 Mar, 2008 who invented 0. Post-it notes (or Post-its) are re-adherable pieces of stationary that are designed to attach to documents, computer monitors and tables without the need for blu tack or tape.
Arthur Fry (born 19 August 1931) is a retired American inventor and scientist. He is credited as the co-creator of the Post-it note, an item of office stationery manufactured by 3M. As of 2006, Post-it note products are sold in more than 100 countries. Fry was born in Minnesota and subsequently lived in Iowa and Kansas City. He received his early education in a one-room rural schoolhouse.
In 2003, the company came out with Post-it Brand Super Sticky Notes, with a stronger glue that adheres better to vertical and non-smooth surfaces. Until 3M's patent expired in the 1990s, post-it type notes were produced only in the company's plant in Cynthiana, Kentucky. A year later 3M instead issued free samples directly to consumers in Boise, Idaho, with 94 percent of those who tried them indicating they would buy the product. On April 6, 1980, Press 'n Peel was re-introduced in US stores as Post-It Notes. The following year they were launched in Canada and Europe
The idea for the Post-it note was conceived in 1974 by Arthur Fry as a way of holding bookmarks in his hymnal while singing in the church choir. He was aware of an adhesive accidentally developed in 1968 by fellow 3M employee Spencer Silver. No application for the lightly sticky stuff was apparent until Fry's idea. 
Today I found out Post-It Notes were invented by accident. There were actually two accidents that lead to the invention of the Post-It note. The first was by Spencer Silver. So after 5 years of constant rejection for the adhesive and another seven years in development and initial rejection, Post-It notes were finally a hit and have since become a mainstay in offices the world over, today being one of the top five best selling office supply products in the world.