You can get a sun conure that is NOT loud at all. You can also train a loud sun conure to not be loud. i have one & done just that. She's as good as gold & it's my boys (eclectus & tiel) that're the noisy ones in the house. BUT...... You could hear the conure screaming through the cinder block walls of the kennel, in the furthest parking space, OVER 12 BARKING DOGS!! LOUD! Try and see if you can find someone with one so you can hang out with it. Be there around sun-up and sun-down, that's when they're the loudest.
I would put the loudness level of green cheek conures somewhere between the decibels of a whisper-quiet vacuum, and a barking chihuahua. Green cheek conures can be very loud and if you ignore their needs-you're going to hear about it. If ANY bird is lonely, hungry, or bored (much like a baby) they will become loud and noisy until you fix the situation. Give in, and give your green cheek conure attention and treats only when they become quiet. This teaches them not screaming, but being quiet, good birds will get your attention. This is also the best way to make loud green cheeks be quiet.
can someone tell me how loud sun conures are compared with cockatoos i have two major mitchells and i can easily handle thire noise but wanted to know if they are louder or around the same noise level. I have one sun conure and one caique. The sun is definitely louder, but usually at specific times of the day. There are times that Cayenne (the sun) wants my attention and will call me, which is a certain type of sound (still loud).
Conures: Their really high-pitched shreeeeek makes a lot of species of conure hard to take by many people. The sun conures, cherry heads, jendays and similar species can deafen you with one loud screech in the ear. The smaller species, such as the greencheeks, are really relative quiet and are definitely better apartment birds. 
Re: how loud are sun conures. Sun conures are not louder than cockatoos, but they do emit a very different call. While I don't think anything can stack up to a large too, I have heard too owners say that the high pitched scream of suns get to them more. I have one sun conure and one caique. The sun is definitely louder, but usually at specific times of the day. There are times that Cayenne (the sun) wants my attention and will call me, which is a certain type of sound (still loud).
Here's a short video of some sun conures making noise: http://www.singing-wings-aviary.com/conu... (scroll down a bit) The thing with sun conures is they are stuck on high volume (some other loud birds, such as my rainbow lorikeet, will change in volume). You could hear the conure screaming through the cinder block walls of the kennel, in the furthest parking space, OVER 12 BARKING DOGS!! LOUD! Try and see if you can find someone with one so you can hang out with it. Be there around sun-up and sun-down, that's when they're the loudest.
8 reasons to own one!1. They are not loud compared to other parrots and conures. They are in the Pyrrhura genus and make about one half the noise of a Sun or Jenday Conure which makes them ideal for condos or apartments.2. They are small birds with big bird personalities! They play just like a large parrot or macaw-they will use their feet to hold things, roll on their back to play or sleep.
Here’s a few facts you should know about sun conures: 1) Sun conures tend to be loud. Every parrot parent should expect noise, no matter what species they are interested in, but sun conures do fall on the louder end of the spectrum. They are pretty widely known as great pet birds and are very popular except for their noise level. When sun conures are young, they are often confused for young jenday conures. As they grow older, musch of the green on their backs fades for yellow. 3) Sun conures are active birds that need plenty of exercise and time outside their bird cage.
Originally Posted by egosbar can someone tell me how loud sun conures are compared with cockatoos i have two major mitchells and i can easily handle thire noise but wanted to know if they are louder or around the same noise level Hello, they are not loud, but they are noisy. I have one sun conure and one caique. The sun is definitely louder, but usually at specific times of the day. There are times that Cayenne (the sun) wants my attention and will call me, which is a certain type of sound (still loud).
Conures can be extremely loud as can any bird. It's their means of communication. I'd try to find a reliable bird breeder or pet store that hand raises their babies and will allow interaction with the babies so you can see just how loud they are. You could hear the conure screaming through the cinder block walls of the kennel, in the furthest parking space, OVER 12 BARKING DOGS!! LOUD! Try and see if you can find someone with one so you can hang out with it. Be there around sun-up and sun-down, that's when they're the loudest.