Some think the answer is every four weeks, others do it just a few times a year. According to Meri Kate O'Connor, senior colorist and educator at Eva Scrivo Salon in New York City, the answer is somewhere in between. You should get your hair cut every six to eight weeks, recommends Meri Kate. The reason is simple, but little-known: By trimming your hair, you prevent the hair cuticle from splitting. When the split goes up the hair shaft, it becomes so thin that it breaks — that's when people get breakage, warns Meri Kate
Depends on your hair. I wouldn't see much growth if I trimmed every 8 weeks. Before going CG, I'd get my hair cut three, maybe four times a year. Now my hair is in much better condition, my ends aren't dry or splitting, and I expect to cut it twice a year. My last cut was in early June. 
Since trims keep your hair looking its best, every month or two is a better bet, again depending on the style of your hair. Most men should get their hair cut about every five weeks, whether they have closely cropped hair or a longer style. Women with short hair should visit a hairdresser every four weeks, otherwise their style may begin to lose its shape. Some people may not get a haircut when they are trying to grow their hair long. This is a mistake, as the hair will often end up looking unhealthy. Subtle trims do not slow hair growth. People with thicker hair should also generally get their hair cut more frequently than those with finer hair.
If you color or highlight your long hair, it is even more likely to have damage. Regular haircuts will help keep your hair strong and healthy. Long hair should be trimmed at least every 8 to 12 weeks. If you notice more breakage or split ends, it could be cut as frequently as every 6 to 8 weeks. Be specific with your hair stylist when you're getting your haircut. Cavan Images/Iconica/Getty Images. Knowing how often to cut your hair has a lot to do with your hair goals and the chemical processes you put your hair through on a regular basis. This guide should help you set up your own haircut schedule, without making you want to pull your hair out.
Best Answer: four to six weeks. if you don't do a lot of damage to your hair (straightening, blow drying, curling w/e) then you don't need to get it trimmed that often, so go every six weeks. Although you might not think your hair is unhealthy when you don't get it trimmed that often, it is. 
A: You need to go to the hairdresser several times per year. How often you get it cut will depend on your budget and of course on the style of your hair. A short haircut will stay in style for a maximum of 4 weeks. When your hair is medium length you should go to the hairdresser about every 5 weeks. If you have long hair you'll need a trim every 6 weeks to avoid split ends. Of course these are just averages. Depending on the condition (= health) of your hair you'll need more or less visits to the hair salon.
Hair naturally begins to split around 3 months. To prevent any permanent damage from these naturally occurring split ends, you should schedule a trim with your stylist every quarter. Scheduling a trim every 3-4 months or 12-16 weeks will help to keep your hair healthy and strong. Scheduling a trim every three to four months will help maintain the shape of your style and remove naturally splitting ends. Hair grows about 1/4 to 1/2 inch a month. If ends are clipped regularly, you will only remove about 1/4 inch or less which will leave you with noticeable growth and length retention. 
The frequency of a haircut depends on the style and health of the hair. Some stylists will allow people to make two appointments: a consultation and an appointment to actually get a haircut. Long hair should be trimmed every 6 weeks. The quality of a person's hair often dictates how often it should get cut. Some people may not get a haircut when they are trying to grow their hair long. This is a mistake, as the hair will often end up looking unhealthy. Subtle trims do not slow hair growth. People with thicker hair should also generally get their hair cut more frequently than those with finer hair.
Although you should have your hair trimmed regularly, some people may need it more often than others. If you have short hair, it's recommended that you get a cut every 4-6 weeks. If you're growing your hair long, don't forget you still also need to have regular trims – growing long hair shouldn’t mean you should skip the hairdresser altogether! Trims every 6-8 weeks ensure hair grows out evenly and healthy. If you color your hair or use any other type of chemical treatment on it, this usually results in drier hair. Dry hair tends to break easier and develop more split ends, meaning you’ll need more frequent trims (every 4-6 weeks) even if your hair is long.