Lyme disease is a bacterial infection caused by the bite of an infected deer tick. Untreated, the disease can cause a number of health problems. Patients treated with antibiotics in the early stage of the infection usually recover rapidly and completely. Only deer ticks can carry the bacterium that causes Lyme disease. They can also carry the germs that cause babesiosis and human granulocytic anaplasmosis. Young deer ticks, called nymphs, are brown and the size of poppy seeds. Adult female deer ticks are red and black, while males are black
Lyme disease is caused by spiral-shaped bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi (found in the U.S.) and Borrelia afzelii (found in Europe). Two different species of ticks, Ixodes scapularis and Ixodes pacificus, transmit the bacteria to humans via bites. Some ticks carried by deer transmit the bacteria that cause Lyme disease. Lyme disease is not contagious from person to person. Lyme disease can affect many areas of the body including the heart, skin, joints, and nervous system.
Lyme disease is transmitted through a bite from a specific type of tick. The animals that most often carry these insects are white-footed field mice, deer, raccoons, opossums, skunks, weasels, foxes, shrews, moles, chipmunks, squirrels, and horses. Ticks typically get the bacterium by biting infected animals, like deer and mice. Most people who get tick bites do not get Lyme disease. Not all ticks are infected, and the risk for contracting the disease increases the longer the tick is attached to the body.
Lyme disease is an infection that is transmitted through the bite of a tick infected with a bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi. Ticks typically get the bacterium by biting infected animals, like deer and mice. Most people who get tick bites do not get Lyme disease. Not all ticks are infected, and the risk for contracting the disease increases the longer the tick is attached to the body.
If you find a tick attached to your skin, remove the tick with tweezers (see tick removal instructions on page 6), and watch for the symptoms of Lyme disease. In 60-80% of cases the first symptom is a rash, known as erythema migrans, that: 1  Occurs at or near the site of the tick bite. Only deer ticks can carry the bacterium that causes Lyme disease. They can also carry the germs that cause babesiosis and human granulocytic anaplasmosis. Young deer ticks, called nymphs, are brown and the size of poppy seeds. Adult female deer ticks are red and black, while males are black
1 Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. Lyme disease facts. 1  Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness.
A. Lyme disease is transmitted through a bite from a specific type of tick. Early stages of Lyme disease include flu-like symptoms that can include a stiff neck, chills, fever, swollen lymph nodes, headaches, fatigue, muscle aches, and joint pain. There may be a large, expanding skin rash around the area of the tick bite. In more advanced disease, nerve problems and arthritis may occur