Habitat. The paca generally stays in moist lowland habitats but may also live in seasonally arid areas near permanent streams or bodies of water. In Costa Rica, it is common in relatively undisturbed forest of up to 2,000 m in elevation, from the driest deciduous forests to the wettest tropical evergreen forests. Range.
Learn more about this article. The Cuniculus paca, formerly known as Agouti paca is in the Order Rodentia under the Family Cuniculidae, which contains only one other species, the mountain paca (A. taczanowskii) (Wainwright 2007). The paca was formerly in the same family as the agouti in the Family Dasyproctidae. Being the largest rodent in Costa Rica (Henderson 2002), the paca can be 70cm in length and weigh up to 9kg (28in., 20lbs.).
Predators of the Cuniculus paca include humans and mammals. The Speothos venaticus (nocturnal bush dog) is an adapted predator of the paca but they are able to escape by jumping into bodies of water and staying immersed for a considerable time (Smith 1983).
The Cuniculus paca, formerly known as Agouti paca is in the Order Rodentia under the Family Cuniculidae, which contains only one other species, the mountain paca (A. taczanowskii) (Wainwright 2007). The paca was formerly in the same family as the agouti in the Family Dasyproctidae. Being the largest rodent in Costa Rica (Henderson 2002), the paca can be 70cm in length and weigh up to 9kg (28in., 20lbs.).
Alpacas can be kept as pets, but as they are mainly grazers you will need to ensure that you can provide them with the correct environment. If you live on a farm, or your pr … operty has a reasonably large area of grass-you could possibly have an alpaca.
The paca generally stays in moist lowland habitats but may also live in seasonally arid areas near permanent streams or bodies of water. In Costa Rica, it is common in relatively undisturbed forest of up to 2,000 m in elevation, from the driest deciduous forests to the wettest tropical evergreen forests. Range.
Pacas use their ability to swim as an escape method from predators. Pacas are preyed on by a number of predators such as the jaguar and the cougar. Bush dogs are also predators of paca, and it is believed the presence of paca is influences the geographic distribution of these canids.