A parliamentary system is a system of democratic governance of a state in which the executive branch derives its democratic legitimacy from, and is held accountable to, the legislature (parliament); the executive and legislative branches are thus interconnected. A parliamentary system may be a bicameral system with two chambers of parliament (or houses): an elected lower house, and an upper house or Senate which may be appointed or elected by a different mechanism from the lower house.
A parliamentary system of government means that the executive branch of government has the direct or indirect support of the parliament. This support is usually shown by a vote of confidence. The relationship between the executive and the legislature in a parliamentary system is called responsible government. 
The Parliamentary form of government is also known as the Cabinet system or Cabinet Form of Government because the cabinet is the link between the two departments. It is also called a responsible government because executive department is responsible and answerable to the legislative department. In a Parliamentary system the legislative and the executive department of the government are very closely related and are interdependent for the performance of governmental functions.
A republic form of government with a parliamentary system. Oxford Dictionary. When a Republican type of government has a ceremonial head of state elected by the parliament. Cambridge Dictionary. A type of Republic operating under the parliamentary system. Like Parliamentary Republic Definition, you would want to know the definitions of other Republic Government. To know the meaning of other Republic Government, we give you three definitons from dictionaries. Definition of any type of government is its main distinguishing factor.
In a few parliamentary republics, such as Botswana, South Africa and Suriname, as well as German states, the head of government is also head of state, but is elected by and is answerable to the legislature. A parliamentary system may be a bicameral system with two chambers of parliament (or houses): an elected lower house, and an upper house or Senate which may be appointed or elected by a different mechanism from the lower house.
This is in contrast to a presidential system in a democracy, where the head of state often is also the head of government, and most importantly, the executive branch does not derive its democratic legitimacy from the legislature. A parliamentary system may be a bicameral system with two chambers of parliament (or houses): an elected lower house, and an upper house or Senate which may be appointed or elected by a different mechanism from the lower house.
Definition. Parliamentary government is a democratic form of government in which the political party that wins the most seats in the legislature or parliament during the federal election forms the government. Parliamentary government originated in Great Britain, and now countries all over the world use this form of democracy. For example, Australia and Germany both have a parliamentary government, but there are a few differences between them. Australia, a member of the British Commonwealth, has a form of parliamentary government that is similar to Great Britain. Its Parliament has two houses; the Senate and the House of Representatives just like the United States Congress
Definition of PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT. : a system of government having the real executive power vested in a cabinet composed of members of the legislature who are individually and collectively responsible to the legislature. ADVERTISEMENT. Tweet. : a system of government having the real executive power vested in a cabinet composed of members of the legislature who are individually and collectively responsible to the legislature.