Greece Facts for Kids. Learn some interesting information about Greece while enjoying a range of fun facts and trivia that's perfect for kids! The official name of Greece is the Hellenic Republic. Greece is located in southeast Europe, close to both Africa and Asia. In 2011 the population of Greece was around 11 million. The capital and largest city in Greece is Athens. Other major cities include Thessaloniki, Patras and Heraklion.
Greece, officially called the Hellenic Greece is located in the southern part of Europe. This country has a strategic geopolitical location between Europe, Africa and Western Asia. Greece due to its location to the west of Aegean Sea, it dominates the Sea and the southern route to the Turkish Strait. Greece has a long coastline extending for about 13, 676 km long, its longest coastline is on the Mediterranean Sea, with many beautiful beaches on its side. The geographical coordinates of Greece are 39 00N and 22 00 E. Beautiful Athens is its largest and the capital city.
The Greek city-states were grouped together at the southern end of a very large peninsula. located in southern Europe, that jutted out into the Mediterranean Sea. A peninsula is a piece of land surrounded by water on three sides. Smaller peninsulas stuck out from the main Greek peninsula, forming a great deal of natural coastline and many natural harbors. The Greeks could always count on seafood to eat.
Divisions: Greece is divided up into thirteen regions (Attica, Central Greece, Central Macedonia, Crete, East Macedonia and Thrace, Epirus, Ionian Islands, North Aegean, Peloponnese, South Aegean, Thessaly, West Greece, West Macedonia) and one autonomous state (Mount Athos). 
Greece is a country in SE Europe, between the Ionian and Adriatic Seas, arms of the Mediterranean Sea. It is east of Italy across the Ionian Sea, and west of Turkey. The northern borders of Greece are with Albania, Macedonia, and Bulgaria. The country includes the mainland, the Peloponnesian peninsula, numerous islands in the Aegean, and the island of Crete farther south in the Mediterranean Sea. (see related map link).
Greece is a small country in south east Europe. Greece has an area of mainland, which is very mountainous, and hundreds of small islands dotted around in the Aegean and Ionian seas. There are about 140 inhabited islands in Greece, but if you count every rocky outcrop, the total surges to about 3,000. The largest island is Crete which is in the Mediterranean Sea.
Where is Greece located on the world map? The given Greek location map shows that Greek is located in the south-eastern part of Europe continent. Greece map also shows that besides, the mainland, Greece is also constituted of hundreds of islands located into the Mediterranean Sea, Ionian Sea, and as well as in the Aegean Sea. However, the country also shares its international boundaries with Bulgaria, Republic of Macedonia, and Albania in the north and Turkey in the east. Furthermore, Aegean Sea lies in the east of the mainland, Mediterranean Sea in the south, and Ionian Sea in the west.
Greece is a small country in south east Europe. Greece has an area of mainland, which is very mountainous, and hundreds of small islands dotted around in the Aegean and Ionian seas. There are about 140 inhabited islands in Greece, but if you count every rocky outcrop, the total surges to about 3,000. The largest island is Crete which is in the Mediterranean Sea
Greece a peninsular country is bordered by the Ionian Sea in the west, Mediterranean Sea in the south and the Aegean Sea to its east. Its land boundary is shared with Bulgaria in the north, Albania in the northwest, Republic of Macedonia in the north and Turkey in the northeast. Greece has a long coastline extending for about 13, 676 km long, its longest coastline is on the Mediterranean Sea, with many beautiful beaches on its side. The geographical coordinates of Greece are 39 00N and 22 00 E. Beautiful Athens is its largest and the capital city.
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, and Africa. Situated on the southern tip of the Balkan peninsula, it shares land borders with Albania to the northwest, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north and Turkey to the northeast. The Aegean Sea lies to the east of the mainland, the Ionian Sea to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south. Greece has the longest coastline on the Mediterranean Basin and the 11th longest coastline in the world at 13,676 km (8,498 mi) in length, featuring a vast number of islands, of which 227 are inhabited.