World Range & Habitat. Narwhals, M. monoceros, are found in Arctic waters from eastern Canada to central Russia between 70°N-80°N. There are large concentrations in the Davis Strait, around Baffin Bay, and in the Greenland Sea. They are occasionally found in eastern Siberia, Alaska, and the western Canadian Arctic. Narwhals, Monodon monoceros (Linnaeus, 1758), are a gregarious species commonly found in groups or pods of sometimes up to 20 individuals, but most often in groups of 3-8, which are often segregated by sex. During the migratory season, smaller groups combine with other groups to form large herds.
The narwhal tusk—most commonly found on males—is actually an enlarged tooth with sensory capability and up to 10 million nerve endings inside. Some narwhals have up to two tusks, while others have none. The spiraled tusk juts from the head and can grow as long at 10 feet. Often dubbed the unicorns of the sea, narwhals are strange and beautiful creatures with long tusks protruding from their heads. Members of the population of more than 80,000 can weigh up to 4,200 pounds and grow as long as 17 feet in length. Check out some common questions about these near-threatened whales.
Size relative to a bus: The narwhal is the unicorn of the sea, a pale-colored porpoise found in Arctic coastal waters and rivers. These legendary animals have two teeth. In males, the more prominent tooth grows into a swordlike, spiral tusk up to 8.8 feet (2.7 meters) long. Narwhal. Monodon monoceros. A newborn narwhal calf is about 5 feet (1.5 meters) long and can weigh 175 to 220 pounds (79 to 100 kilograms). Narwhals are normally found in pods of two to ten.
Like the beluga, narwhals are medium-sized whales. For both sexes, excluding the male's tusk, the total body size can range from 3.95 to 5.5 metres (13.0 to 18.0 feet); the males are slightly larger than the females. The average weight of an adult narwhal is 800 to 1,600 kilograms (1,800 to 3,500 pounds). The narwhal males are distinguished by a long, straight, helical tusk, which is an elongated upper left canine. The narwhal was one of many species described by Carolus Linnaeus in his publication Systema Naturae in 1758.
Confidence votes 14. Narwhals are creatures of Arctic waters. There, they most often are seen off the coasts of the Canadian and Russian Arctic. They also may be found in the northern Atlantic Ocean, off the coasts of Canada and Greenland. But they tend not to venture south of 65 degrees north latitude. Their habitat also includes Spitsbergen Island, in the Svalbard archipelago north of Norway, where they can be seen on icebergs and floes. The Arctic ocean
The narwhal is found predominantly in the Atlantic and Russian areas of the Arctic Ocean. Individuals are commonly recorded in the northern part of Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Baffin Bay; off the east coast of Greenland; and in a strip running east from the northern end of Greenland round to eastern Russia (170° East). The narwhal males are distinguished by a long, straight, helical tusk, which is an elongated upper left canine. The narwhal was one of many species described by Carolus Linnaeus in his publication Systema Naturae in 1758.
31 Oct, 2013 animals 2. Narwhals are unique looking whales with long straight tusks that begin on the left side of the upper jaw. These tusks are found in most male narwhals, but only about 15% of females grow similar tusks. Narwhals are a species of medium sized whale and they are most closely related to the Beluga whale
The most conspicuous characteristic of the male narwhal is a single long tusk, a canine tooth that projects from the left side of the upper jaw, through the lip and forms a left-handed helix spiral. Their tusks grow throughout life, reaching lengths from about 1.5 to 3.1 m (4 ft 11 in to 10 ft 2 in). The narwhal males are distinguished by a long, straight, helical tusk, which is an elongated upper left canine. The narwhal was one of many species described by Carolus Linnaeus in his publication Systema Naturae in 1758.
Narwhal Facts. The narwhal whale is a medium sized marine mammal that can be found swimming in the Canadian Arctic and Greenlandic waters all year round. This marine mammal belongs to the toothed whale suborder and is part of the cetacean species which also includes dolphins and porpoises. The narwhal whale is unique animal among the whale species as it is the only cetacean that is known to have a long ivory tusk that extends from the upper left side of its jaw, which can measure up to 7 – 10 feet in length.