A whole chicken can keep up to a year in the freezer. Frozen chicken parts can last up to 9 months. But that will depend on how good the freezer is at maintaining temperature and how well the chicken is packaged for freezing. Make sure the chicken is packed securely and air-tight. Use packaging designed for freezing. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
And with the use of a zip-seal bag and a permanent marker, you can avoid wasting your good food. Before you put meat in the freezer, you should always write the date on it -- that way you don't have to question how long it's been frozen. And, believe it or not, some meats can last in the freezer for up to one year. 1  Cooked poultry -- 4 months. 2  Uncooked poultry parts -- 9 months. 3  Uncooked whole poultry -- 12 months. 
You can keep chicken for 12 months but that is if freezer is at -18c If your is not that cold then not that long but there will be no problem if only a month or so Enjoy. Bunny · 8 years ago. Report Abuse. 
It really depends on the freezer and if it's can chicken broth or home made broth. If it's can chicken broth and it's in the can you can keep it for at least 1 year at the most. And if it's homemade then you can keep it up to 5 month's at the most. But it really depends if it's homemade then certain ingredient's may get that old taste. You can keep canned chicken broth in the refrigerator for several  days. Do not store it inside the can, pour it into a bowl and cover  it. You can also keep chicken broth i … n the freezer. Pour it into  ice cube trays and once it is frozen put it into freezer bags, it  will for many months this way
During this time, if chicken defrosted in the refrigerator is not used, it can safely be refrozen without cooking first. Chicken may be defrosted in cold water in its airtight packaging or in a leak proof bag. Submerge the bird or cut-up parts in cold water, changing the water every 30 minutes to be sure it stays cold. A whole (3 to 4-pound) broiler fryer or package of parts should defrost in 2 to 3 hours. 
Be Wary of Freezer Burn. Chicken, if kept in the freezer too long, may lose flavor and texture due to freezer burn. When food is frozen, it can lose water molecules, causing it to become dehydrated. When water is lost, the food can change in flavor and its texture. This is freezer burn. Bottom Line. Though a frozen whole chicken may be safe to eat, it may not taste or look too fresh if stored in the freezer for too long. The U.S. Food and Drug Amdministration suggests using a frozen whole chicken within one year.
According to Martha Stewart's Homekeeping Handbook, chicken parts (such as the breasts) can be stored for only 1-2 days in the refrigerator (at a temperature of 40°F/5°C) while they can be stored for 9 months when frozen (0°F/-18°C). Categories 1  : Answered questions. 2  Food Storage. 
Answer: If you thawed the chicken in the refrigerator, you don't have to cook it right away. Poultry that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional one to two days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. You also can safely refreeze it within that same timeframe.