The coldest average temperature in Anaheim is January at 55.5 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Anaheim occurs in January with 2.6 inches. The Anaheim weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The Anaheim, CA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Anaheim, CA air quality index is 54% greater than the California average and 71% greater than the national average.
The average temperature of Anaheim is 65.89°F, which is higher than the California average temperature of 61.17°F and is much higher than the national average temperature of 54.45°F. 
To find out how often it rises over 70, 80 or 90 °F monthly and annually in Anaheim, scroll down farther. There are also counts of nights with warm temperatures. All the numbers are averages, based on climate data gathered in Anaheim near Disneyland, from 1981 to 2010. How Often Anaheim Has Cold Temperatures. Anaheim averages just seven nights a year when it gets as cold as 40 °F or less. Temperatures that chilly occur most often in December, but can happen from November to March. Even on the coolest nights though, the temperature normally never goes below freezing.
Days of Hot Weather in Anaheim. Anaheim and Disneyland enjoy comfortable daytime temperatures for most of the year. Really hot days are not common here. Only four days a year on average get into the 100s °F (over 38 °C). How Often Anaheim Has Cold Temperatures. Anaheim averages just seven nights a year when it gets as cold as 40 °F or less. Temperatures that chilly occur most often in December, but can happen from November to March. Even on the coolest nights though, the temperature normally never goes below freezing.
Summer. Anaheim has the usual weather of California with very mild and sunny weather over the year, with the year-round average temperature of Anaheim is 21°C. Subsequently, the seasons in Anaheim are divided across summer and winter, with summer commencing in April and generally lasting well into October. Premium API delivers advanced and in-depth weather data as XML, JSON, JSON-P etc. 1  1. Rice could be the answer to decrease greenhouse gases. 2  2. 8 million tons of plastic dumped into the ocean each year. 3  3. Have you noticed mysterious goo rolling onto American beaches? 4  4. Displacements due to natural disasters: spending and solutions. 5  5. 6  6.
Anaheim: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Anaheim with an average temperature of 25°C (77°F) and the coldest is December at 14°C (57°F) . 
Anaheim Yearly Weather Summary. Anaheim has the usual weather of California with very mild and sunny weather over the year, with the year-round average temperature of Anaheim is 21°C. Premium API delivers advanced and in-depth weather data as XML, JSON, JSON-P etc. 1  1. Rice could be the answer to decrease greenhouse gases. 2  2. 8 million tons of plastic dumped into the ocean each year. 3  3. Have you noticed mysterious goo rolling onto American beaches? 4  4. Displacements due to natural disasters: spending and solutions. 5  5. 6  6.
Disneyland Weather and Climate. Average climate at Disneyland (English Units). Getting today's weather or a forecast for the upcoming week is easy, but if you want to know what the weather might be 6 months from now-or whenever you're planning your Disneyland trip-some averages may be more helpful.
The average high and low temperatures are listed below for Anaheim, including Disneyland, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature. How Often Anaheim Has Cold Temperatures. Anaheim averages just seven nights a year when it gets as cold as 40 °F or less. Temperatures that chilly occur most often in December, but can happen from November to March. Even on the coolest nights though, the temperature normally never goes below freezing.
0.5. The highest average temperature in Anaheim is July at 74.5 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Anaheim is January at 55.5 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Anaheim occurs in January with 2.6 inches. The Anaheim weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... 