Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. For the backyard breeder, telling the difference between male and female geese is essential when space is limited. Several breeds of grey goose are commonly available from hatcheries and feed stores. 
Unlike other birds, such as mallard ducks, the male Canada goose doesn't have distinctive, colorful plumage that separates him visually from the female. If you see a pair of geese together, chances are the bigger of the pair is the male; male Canadian geese tend to be about 10 percent larger than the females. On average, male Canada geese weigh between 7 and 14 pounds and females weigh between 5.5 and 12 pounds. Canadian geese mate for life, so if you see a lone goose, it may be the male, out on patrol to protect his nesting female partner, or it may be a goose in mourning. Without having a partner nearby for comparison, you won't know for sure if that goose is a he or she. More Cuteness.
You don't need to turn your geese upside down to sex them -- there are clear differences in appearance and behaviour which will help you work our which is male and which is female... Of course, things get a bit trickier if you only have one, or if they are the same-but we hope this gives you some clues. 
Listening to their calls may provide a clue; the male has a slower, low-pitched honk and the female makes a hink noise, higher-pitched and faster than the male's. If you come across geese in a nesting situation, the goose on the nest will be the female, tending to her eggs. Canadian geese mate for life, so if you see a lone goose, it may be the male, out on patrol to protect his nesting female partner, or it may be a goose in mourning. Without having a partner nearby for comparison, you won't know for sure if that goose is a he or she. More Cuteness.
Males hiss more than females. They also tend to bite more than females. Listen to the sound of the goose call. Male geese have a higher-pitch honk than females. Male geese do a display during mating season where they flap their wings and chase away other male geese that are competition. Also, a male goose by himself stands guard. Females by themselves tend to sit down and nest. Examination: You can examine the genital area to determine a goose's sex. Hold the goose with its belly facing you to see the cloaca.
by Naveen. Goose vs Gander. Unless there is a clear understanding about the male and female characteristics, it would be a great challenge to identify ganders among geese. The term goose encompasses both males and females of geese, but it refers to a female when used with the term gander. If it is a female goose, the ovaries could be seen in a cluster. In case of a gander, the reproductive organs, especially testicles, could be seen in the abdominal cavity. • Generally, gander is larger and taller than goose. In fact, the male is tall about 8 – 15 centimetres more compared to female.
Best Answer: There is no way to visually tell the difference between male and female Canada Goose. http://www.birds.cornell.edu/AllAboutBir... 
kgb answers » Science & Technology » Animals. The only way to tell the difference between a male and female Canada goose is that the larger bird is usually the male, and it's the female who nests. report this answer. Updated on Monday, February 06 2012 at 03:29AM EST. Source: www.canadageesenewjersey.com/... 
Males have larger and broader heads than females. A female goose's head is smaller and narrower than that of a males. Female geese are usually smaller than males in overall size, as well. As for Chinese Geese, males have a knob on their head and females don't have a knob. Behavior: Males tend to be more aggressive than females, especially during the mating season. Also, a male goose by himself stands guard. Females by themselves tend to sit down and nest. Examination: You can examine the genital area to determine a goose's sex. Hold the goose with its belly facing you to see the cloaca.
Female geese are generally smaller in size than their male counterparts. Male geese will also be noticeably more protective and agressive to unfamiliar animals. Goose is the female name-Gander is the male name. Hen. The male of the species is called a Gander and a female is a called a Dame. A goose.