In bacteria, transcription begins with the binding of RNA polymerase to the promoter in DNA. RNA polymerase is a core enzyme consisting of five subunits: 2 α subunits, 1 β subunit, 1 β' subunit, and 1 ω subunit. The antisense strand of DNA is read by RNA polymerase from the 3' end to the 5' end during transcription (3' → 5'). The complementary RNA is created in the opposite direction, in the 5' → 3' direction, matching the sequence of the sense strand with the exception of switching uracil for thymine.
During transcription, a DNA sequence is read by an RNA polymerase, which produces a complementary, antiparallel RNA strand called a primary transcript. Transcription proceeds in the following general steps: 1  One or more sigma factor protein binds to the RNA polymerase holoenzyme, allowing it to bind to promoter DNA. The antisense strand of DNA is read by RNA polymerase from the 3' end to the 5' end during transcription (3' → 5'). The complementary RNA is created in the opposite direction, in the 5' → 3' direction, matching the sequence of the sense strand with the exception of switching uracil for thymine.
Transcription & Translation: Transcription (Advanced). Transcription is the process by which the information in DNA is copied into messenger RNA (mRNA) for protein production. Transcription begins with a bundle of factors assembling at the promoter sequence on the DNA (in red). Here, two transcription factors are already bound to the promoter. Here the process begins. Transcription factors assemble at a specific promoter region along the DNA. The length of DNA following the promoter is a gene and it contains the recipe for a protein. A mediator protein complex arrives carrying the enzyme RNA polymerase.
Once RNA polymerase and its related transcription factors are in place, the single-stranded DNA is exposed and ready for transcription. At this point, RNA polymerase begins moving down the DNA template strand in the 3' to 5' direction, and as it does so, it strings together complementary nucleotides. In other cases, the RNA molecule carries messages from the DNA to other parts of the cell for processing. Most often, this information is used to manufacture proteins. The specific type of RNA that carries the information stored in DNA to other areas of the cell is called messenger RNA, or mRNA. Transcription begins when an enzyme called RNA polymerase attaches to the DNA template strand and begins assembling a new chain of nucleotides to produce a complementary RNA strand. There are multiple types of types of RNA. In eukaryotes, there are multiple types of RNA polymerase which make the various types of RNA
(2) Elongation of the mRNA chain. (3) Termination of the mRNA chain. The piece of mRNA that results from the direct transcription of the DNA that encodes a gene is called the primary transcript and it undergoes modification, sometimes quite extensively, before it can translate its message into protein. The class of enzymes that synthesize RNAs are known as RNA polymerases. RNA polymerase holoenzyme contacts the promoter at roughly the centers of the two regions (-10 and -35) and the core enzyme tightly binds to the duplex DNA. Its action is that of melting the double-stranded DNA along a sequence of about 11 bps, from -9 to +2. The s factor splits off as transcription begins.
Gene expression begins with the process called transcription, which is the synthesis of a strand of mRNA that is complementary to the gene of interest. This process is called transcription because the mRNA is like a transcript, or copy, of the gene’s DNA code. Transcription begins in a fashion somewhat like DNA replication, in that a region of DNA unwinds and the two strands separate, however, only that small portion of the DNA will be split apart. Thus, a gene within the DNA molecule is transcribed into mRNA, which is then translated into a protein product ([link]). Commonly, an mRNA transcription will be translated simultaneously by several adjacent ribosomes. This increases the efficiency of protein synthesis.
In transcription, only onestrand is used as a template.10. Transcription begins at a gene’s pro-moter, a specific sequence of DNA thatacts as a “start” signal for a gene thatis to be transcribed. Transcriptionends at a sequence of bases that actsas a “stop” signal.11. 
Learn more about the DNA transcription process, where DNA is converted to RNA, a more portable set of instructions for the cell. Aa Aa Aa. The genetic code is frequently referred to as a blueprint because it contains the instructions a cell requires in order to sustain itself. The first step in transcription is initiation, when the RNA pol binds to the DNA upstream (5′) of the gene at a specialized sequence called a promoter (Figure 2a).
Transcription is when RNA is made from DNA. During transcription, RNA polymerase makes a copy of a gene from the DNA to mRNA as needed. This process is similar in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Finally, the mRNA is degraded. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is a large family of RNA molecules that convey genetic information from DNA to the ribosome, where they specify the amino acid sequence of the protein products of gene expression.