Hypersecretion of thyroid hormone Overproduction of thyroid hormone can be due to adenoma of the thyrotropic cells of the anterior pituitary, a thyroid tumor or an autoimmune reaction to TSH receptors on thyrotropic cells (Graves' disease). Symptoms: 1. High BMR and high body temperature with profuse sweating. Hyposecretion of Growth hormone-Pituitary dwarfism Due to decreased production of growth hormone from the somatotropic cells of the anterior pituitary. Generally due to a nonmalignant adenoma of the non-somatotropic tissue
Hypersecretion of growth hormone: increased production of growth hormone from the pituitary gland. See detailed information below for a list of 2 causes of Hypersecretion of growth hormone, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Hypersecretion of growth hormone: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 1 Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Endocrine symptoms (2 causes). 2  Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Female genital symptoms (2 causes). 3  Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Female reproductive symptoms (2 causes). 4  Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Female sexu
In general, the causes for hypersecretion or hyposecretion of GH involve tumors in the hypothalamus or the pituitary, the synthesis of structurally abnormal GH, the inability of the liver to produce somatomedins, or the lack of receptor molecules in the target cells. 
Acromegaly is caused by the uncontrolled hypersecretion of growth hormone (GH) by the pituitary, a tiny gland — about the size of a pea –– located just below your brain, behind your eyes. Growth Hormone (GH) - The pituitary releases GH in short spurts throughout the day and night, resulting in constantly varying GH levels. When a person has acromegaly, abnormally high levels of GH are released by the pituitary. Too much GH causes changes in physical characteristics and other aspects of your body.
The opposite condition, dwarfism, is caused by underproduction of the same hormone. (Overproduction of growth hormone in adults causes acromegaly .) Gigantism can be corrected only by early diagnosis in childhood and removal by surgery of part of the pituitary gland or by x-ray treatment. an abnormal condition characterized by excessive size and stature. It is caused most frequently by hypersecretion of growth hormone (GH) that occurs before the closure of the bone epiphyses; it occurs to a lesser degree in hypogonadism and in certain genetic disorders.
It is called acromegaly. Acromegaly. Acromegaly occurs when there is excessive secretion of growth hormone after puberty, and gigantism occurs if it occurs before puberty. Pituitary gigantism is the condition caused by excessive growth hormone before the fusion of the epiphyseal plates which occurs at the end of puberty, while acromegaly is the … condition of excessive growth hormone after the fusion of the eipphyseal plates.
In general, the causes for hypersecretion or hyposecretion of GH involve tumors in the hypothalamus or the pituitary, the synthesis of structurally abnormal GH, the inability of the liver to produce somatomedins, or the lack of receptor molecules in the target cells. 
Hypersecretion of growth hormone causes gigantism in children and acromegaly in adults. Evaluation of growth hormone hypersecretion cannot be excluded with a single normal GH level due to diurnal variation. However, a random blood sample showing markedly elevated GH is adequate for diagnosis of GH hypersecretion. In humans, this condition is caused by over-production of growth hormone in childhood resulting in persons between 2.13 m (7 feet or 84 inches) and 2.74 m (9 feet or 108 inches) in height.
In some cases hypersecretion gives rise to a typical clinical syndrome involving acromegaly, hyperprolactinemia, and excess corticotropin (ACTH). The etiology of acromegaly is a growth hormone (GH)-secreting pituitary tumor in the vast majority of cases. Hyperprolactinemia and excess cortisol, however, may be due to many causes among which prolactin (PRL)- and ACTH-secreting pituitary tumors are not frequent. 
pituitary dwarfism. caused by hyposecretion of growth hormone by pituitary gland at an early age, it slows growth and causes short and proportional stature; it is a congenital condition that can be treated during childhood with growth hormone therapy.