In addition to having elevated levels of glucose in the blood, people with hyperglycemia often have glucose detected in their urine (glycosuria). Ordinarily urine contains no glucose as it is all reabsorbed by the kidneys. The main symptoms of hyperglycemia are increased thirst and a frequent need to urinate. 
Hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar (also spelled hyperglycaemia or hyperglycaemia, hyperglycæmia not to be confused with the opposite, disorder) hypoglycemia is a condition in which an excessive amount of glucose circulates in the blood. plasma Diabetic neuropathy may be a result of long-term hyperglycemia. In diabetes mellitus (by far the most common cause of chronic hyperglycemia), treatment aims at maintaining blood glucose at a level as close to normal as possible, in order to avoid these serious long-term complications.
Conclusion. The prevalence of hyperglycemia was in the range of similar studies other where in the world. 10.3% of patients had diabetes mellitus and 5patients (17.2%) had transient hyperglycemia Underweight and preschool ages were significant predictors of hyperglycemia. Three patients had a diagnosis of Acute Leukemia, but no complete information was available. .Finally 29 patients evaluated for hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus. Patients were children with age range of 1 to 14 years old (mean age = 6.26 years old). We divide the patients into two categories.
Definition. Hyperglycemia is a complex metabolic condition characterized by abnormally high levels of blood sugar (blood glucose) in circulating blood, usually as a result of diabetes mellitus (types 1 and 2), although it can sometimes occur in cystic fibrosis and near-drowning (submersion injury). Diabetes is a chronic metabolic disorder with hyperglycemia, gradually rising levels of glucose, as its primary characteristic. As diabetes develops and symptoms increase, hyperglycemia becomes progressive but will occur only occasionally in the carefully managed diabetic patient.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Stress hyperglycemia (also called stress diabetes or diabetes of injury) is a medical term referring to transient elevation of the blood glucose due to the stress of illness. It usually resolves spontaneously, but must be distinguished from various forms of diabetes mellitus. Stress hyperglycemia is especially common in patients with hypertonic dehydration and those with elevated catecholamine levels (e.g., after emergency department treatment of acute asthma with epinephrine). Steroid diabetes is a specific and prolonged form of stress hyperglycemia. In some people, stress hyperglycemia may indicate a reduced insulin secretory capacity or a reduced sensitivity, and is sometimes the first clue to incipient diabete
Twenty nine patients were examined; three of them (10.3%) had diabetes mellitus and 5patients (17.2%) had transient hyperglycemia.Mean age of the patients was 6.26 years and nineteen Children (63%) were in preschool age. Three patients had a diagnosis of Acute Leukemia, but no complete information was available. .Finally 29 patients evaluated for hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus. Patients were children with age range of 1 to 14 years old (mean age = 6.26 years old). We divide the patients into two categories.
In according to above definition 10.3% of patients had diabetic (3 out of 29 subjects) and 17.2% of patients had hyperglycemia in one sampling (5 out of 29 subjects) but that did not repeat in next sampling. Three patients had a diagnosis of Acute Leukemia, but no complete information was available. .Finally 29 patients evaluated for hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus. Patients were children with age range of 1 to 14 years old (mean age = 6.26 years old). We divide the patients into two categories.
Distinction between transient hyperglycemia and early insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in childhood: a prospective study of incidence and prognostic factors. Herskowitz-Dumont R, Wolfsdorf JI, Jackson RA, Eisenbarth GS. [PubMed-indexed for MEDLINE]. 