In this video lesson you will learn how to thread and use serger (overlock) sewing machines. Become familiar with these machines and feel confident using them. You will be able to apply your knowledge to many different brands as well, since most sergers function similarly. You will learn about different sergers, including how to thread these types of machines, adjust the thread tension, differential and stitch length settings to get the best results every time and a shortcut for changing the threads on your machine fast and easily between different projects.
Please try again later. This Video is a Free Sample of the (How to Thread and Use Sergers (Overlock) Sewing Machines Video Lesson) visit eSewingWorkshop.com and start your Free Trial or get Full Access to all online video lessons. 1  Education. 2  Standard YouTube License
Please try again later. We know Sergers are notoriously difficult to thread, so we've created a detailed, in depth tutorial to help you master an overlock machine. Follow along as we demonstrate step-by-step instructions from inserting the needle to navigating that tricky lower loop
Thread the overlock sewing machine in the correct order. 1  The machine should be off when you thread a serger. 2  If you're using a 4-thread overlock sewing machine, you will have the upper looper thread, the lower looper and 2 needle threads. 3  A 3-thread machine has an upper looper, lower looper and a single needle thread. 4. Finish threading the serger with the needle thread or threads. 1  Set the threads on the spindles and bring them over the front of the machine. 2  Put the thread through the needle or needles on the overlock sewing machine.
Step 7: Threading Tips for the Serger • Use good quality serger thread. This thread is sold in larger 3000 yd. spools at most fabric and sewing retailers. • Use the same brand of thread in all tensions, do not mix and match brands. • Next thread the eye of the looper, and then pull the thread towards the back of the serger, leaving approximately 8 inches of thread. Photo #1. Step 3: Threading Lower Looper: (YELLOW) • Slip the thread behind the first guide directly below the tension dial from right to left.
1 Pull the thread over the top and front of the overlock sewing machine. 2  Remove the faceplate on the machine's front and pull the thread through the metal loops underneath the plate. 3  Your serger will most likely have a color-coded guide to help you thread the upper looper. 4. Finish threading the serger with the needle thread or threads. 1  Set the threads on the spindles and bring them over the front of the machine. 2  Put the thread through the needle or needles on the overlock sewing machine.
Instructions. Select the thread and place one spool on each of the thread posts at the top of the machine. Thread the machine in the following order: upper looper, lower looper, right needle and left needle. Extend the thread-guide pole to the highest level. Pass each thread through its pole thread guide from back to front. Thread one spool at a time. Begin with the upper looper
The SINGER 14T968DC Professional 5 Serger Overlock machine has 5-4-3-2 thread capability providing a wide selection of stitch options for all types of projects with professional results every time.Save time with hems, seams and seam finishing. Creative stitch options and fabric combinations can expand your creativity. 
3. Thread a serger with the lower looper next. 1  Set the spool on the second spindle and bring the thread over the front of the machine. 2  Use tweezers to help you get the thread through the tight spots on the overlock sewing machine. 4. Finish threading the serger with the needle thread or threads. 1  Set the threads on the spindles and bring them over the front of the machine. 2  Put the thread through the needle or needles on the overlock sewing machine.