Anchorage AK average temperature information for planning your vacation to Alaska. Find the best time to visit Anchorage Alaska to experience the vacation your looking for. Average temperatures are enhanced with record high temperatures and record low temperatures for Anchorage Alaska. Be sure to visit the “ Alaska Wildlife Conservation Center ”, Girdwood. The average monthly temperature and rainfall information for Anchorage Alaska is another of the helpfull topics covered for help in planning your vacation to Alaska. This information is to help in planning your vacation to
This report describes the typical weather at the Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport (Anchorage, Alaska, United States) weather station over the course of an average September. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Anchorage, Alaska has a continental climate with short dry cool summers. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by forests (47%), oceans and seas (35%), tundra (11%), shrublands (2%), and marshes (2%).
Anchorage's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 9.3°F. In July, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 65.3°F. The driest month in Anchorage is April with 0.52 inches of precipitation, and with 2.93 inches August is the wettest month.
How Often Anchorage Has Cold Temperatures. For most of winter Anchorage's temperature remains below freezing all day long. The thermometer there drops to 0 degrees Fahrenheit or colder an average of 20 days a year. Daytime highs of less than 33 degrees can also occur during October, November, March and April
Anchorage in the winter, with an average of 26 degrees showing on the mercury offers an array of alpine skiing, dog sledding and Skijoring, a fast growing sport that involves cross-country skiing while being towed by a dog, along with the famous Iditarod sled dog race and the 2000 mile Irondog snowmobile race. Be sure to visit the “ Alaska Wildlife Conservation Center ”, Girdwood. The average monthly temperature and rainfall information for Anchorage Alaska is another of the helpfull topics covered for help in planning your vacation to Alaska. This information is to help in planning your vacation to Anchorage Alaska
Average daytime summer temperatures range from approximately 55 to 78 degrees Fahrenheit (13 to 26 degrees Celsius); average daytime winter temperatures are about 5 to 30 degrees (-15 to -1 degrees Celsius). Anchorage has a frost-free growing season that averages slightly over 100 days. Average January low and high temperatures at Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport (PANC) are 11 °F/23 °F (-11 °C/-5 °C) with an average winter snowfall of 75.5 inches (192 cm). The weather on any given day and indeed for entire seasons can be very unpredictable. Average July low and high temperatures are 52 °F/66 °F (11 °C/19 °C) and the hottest reading ever recorded was 86 °F (30 °C) on June 25, 1953. The average annual precipitation at the airport is 16.63 inches (422 mm).
17. Climate data for anchorage intl, Longitude: -150.028, Latitude: 61.169. Average weather Anchorage, AK - 99502 - 1981-2010 normals. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December.
Average Annual Temperatures in Alaska. Average annual temperatures for cities, towns and parks throughout Alaska are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Southeast, South-Central, Southwest, Interior and Far North Alaska.
Days of Warm Weather in Anchorage. The temperature in Anchorage creeps above 69 degrees Fahrenheit an average of just 12 days a year and normally doesn't get above 80 degrees. Anchorage's spells of 70-degree weather typically occur from May to August. Warm weather during winter is scarce. For most of winter Anchorage's temperature remains below freezing all day long. The thermometer there drops to 0 degrees Fahrenheit or colder an average of 20 days a year.