Domain. While the term domain is often used synonymously with  domain name , it also has a definition specific to local networks. A domain contains a group of computers that can be accessed and administered with a common set of rules
A domain-specific language is created specifically to solve problems in a particular domain and is not intended to be able to solve problems outside it (although that may be technically possible). In contrast, general-purpose languages are created to solve problems in many domains. A domain-specific language is somewhere between a tiny programming language and a scripting language, and is often used in a way analogous to a programming library. The boundaries between these concepts are quite blurry, much like the boundary between scripting languages and general-purpose language
Definition of:Internet domain name. An organization's unique name on the Internet. The chosen name combined with a generic top-level domain (gTLD), such as .com or .org, makes up the Internet domain name. For example, computerlanguage.com is the domain name for the publisher of this encyclopedia. 
Language. Language is the comprehension and/or use of a spoken (i.e., listening and speaking), written (i.e., reading and writing) and/or other communication symbol system (e.g., American Sign Language). Descriptions of the five language domains follow. 1  Phonology—study of the speech sound (i.e., phoneme) system of a language, including the rules for combining and using phonemes. 2  Morphology—study of the rules that govern how morphemes, the minimal meaningful units of language, are used in a language.
To define a domain-specific language (DSL), you create a Visual Studio solution from a template. The key part of the solution is the DSL Definition diagram, which is stored in DslDefinition.dsl. The DSL Definition defines the classes and shapes of the DSL. To create a DSL solution. Create a solution with the Domain-Specific Language template, which can be found under Other Project Types/Extensibility in the New Project dialog box. When you click OK, the Domain-Specific Language Wizard opens and displays a list of template DSL solutions.
A domain specific language is a language that's written to deal witha specific domain or set of concerns. There are a lot of them around, like make, ant, and rake for describing software builds, or lexx and yacc for language construction. 6. domain-specific language (DSL) is a programming language or specification language dedicated to a particular problem domain, a particular problem representation technique, and/or a particular solution technique. I guess I am looking for some kind of intro and see if anybody have used it.
3. computers. a: a section of the Internet that is made up of computers or sites that are related in some way (such as by use or source) ◊ An abbreviation of an Internet site's domain (such as .gov, .org, and .com) is included in its address: www.Merriam-Webster.com.
A domain-specific language (DSL) is a computer language specialized to a particular application domain. This is in contrast to a general-purpose language (GPL), which is broadly applicable across domains, and lacks specialized features for a particular domain. A domain-specific language is somewhere between a tiny programming language and a scripting language, and is often used in a way analogous to a programming library. The boundaries between these concepts are quite blurry, much like the boundary between scripting languages and general-purpose languages