What is hippotherapy Hippotherapy is a physical, occupational, and speech-language therapy treatment strategy that utilizes the movement of the horse as part of an integrated intervention program. Most clients respond very enthusiastically to hippotherapy treatment and thoroughly enjoy the opportunity to engage with the horse in an environment that is much different than the typical therapy clinic. Who benefits from hippotherapy A wide variety of clients can experience benefits from hippotherapy.
Hippotherapy, a treatment tool utilizing the movement of a horse, is medically oriented to address sensory, motor, and perceptual deficits. It is used to treat individuals with acquired and developmental disabilities. 
The official definition of hippotherapy. Hippotherapy is a physical, occupational or speech and language therapy treatment strategy that utilizes equine movement. Hippotherapy literally means treatment with the help of the horse from the Greek word, hippos meaning horse. Specially trained physical and occupational therapists use this treatment for clients with movement dysfunction. In Hippotherapy, the movement of the horse influences the client. The client is positioned on the horse and actively responds to his movement. The therapist directs the movement of the horse; analyzes the client's responses; and adjusts the treatment accordingly.
Hippotherapy is a form of physical, occupational and speech therapy that uses equine movement to develop and enhance neurological and physical functioning by channeling the movement of the horse. Hippotherapy is not to be confused with therapeutic horseback riding, in which individuals are taught specific riding skills. Hippotherapy is built on the concept that the individual and variable gait, tempo, rhythm, repetition and cadence of a horse’s movement can influence human neuromuscular development in humans.
Hippotherapy has been used to treat people with physical or mental challenges. Hippotherapy is a form of physical, occupational and speech therapy in which a therapist uses the characteristic movements of a horse to provide carefully graded motor and sensory input. 
Hippotherapy, also known as therapeutic horseback riding, equine-facilitated therapy, or horse therapy, is the passive use of the physical movements of the horse in the treatment of patients with neurological or other disabilities. 
Hippotherapy: is a physical, occupational, and speech-language therapy treatment strategy that utilizes equine movement as part of an integrated intervention program to achieve functional outcomes. Equine movement provides multidimensional movement, which is variable, rhythmic and repetitive. Hippotherapy : Hippotherapy is a physical, occupational, or speech and language therapy treatment strategy that utilizes equine movement. Hippotherapy literally means “treatment with the help of the horse” from the Greek word, “hippos” meaning horse.
Hippotherapy is one of several treatment strategies that a therapist can use as part of a treatment plan. Specifically, Hippotherapy is the use of the horse’s movement and sensory input for improving function. Licensed Physical, Occupational or Speech Therapists properly position the patient on the horse, analyze the patient’s response and direct the horse’s movement to achieve specific patient treatment goals.
Hippotherapy is a form of speech, physical and occupational therapy or treatment using a horse as a healing medium. Hippotherapy relies mostly in horse movement for the treatment of people with mental or physical disabilities. A formal application of hippotherapy was first introduced in Germany, Switzerland and Austria in the 1960s as a form of traditional physical therapy.