Erythema nodosum is a type of panniculitis that affects subcutaneous fat in the skin, usually first evident as an outcropping of erythematous nodules that are highly sensitive to touch. 1 Most nodules are located symmetrically on the ventral aspect of the lower extremities. Erythema nodosum nodules vary from 0.4 to 4 inches (1 to 10 cm) in diameter and are poorly demarcated, reflecting their subcutaneous anatomic location (Table 11–4; Figure 1) . Pretibial involvement is most common, although the extensor surfaces of the forearm, the thighs, and the trunk also may be affected.
Erythema nodosum, a painful disorder of the subcutaneous fat, is the most common type of panniculitis. Generally, it is idiopathic, although the most common identifiable cause is streptococcal pharyngitis. Erythema nodosum may be the first sign of a systemic disease such as tuberculosis, bacterial or deep fungal infection, sarcoidosis, inflammatory bowel disease, or cancer. Erythema nodosum nodules vary from 0.4 to 4 inches (1 to 10 cm) in diameter and are poorly demarcated, reflecting their subcutaneous anatomic location (Table 11–4; Figure 1) . Pretibial involvement is most common, although the extensor surfaces of the forearm, the thighs, and the trunk also may be affected.
Erythema nodosum is a painful inflammation of the connective tissues beneath the skin’s surface. It is characterized by lumps or nodules beneath the skin that are about an inch across, and are firm, red and warm to the touch. 
Erythema nodosum (EN) is an inflammatory condition characterised by inflammation of the fat cells under the skin, resulting in tender red nodules or lumps that are usually seen on both shins. It can be caused by a variety of conditions, and typically resolves spontaneously within 3–6 weeks. 
Erythema nodosum is a type of skin inflammation that is located in a certain portion of the fatty layer of skin. Erythema nodosum (also called EN) results in reddish, painful, tender lumps most commonly located in the front of the legs below the knees. The tender lumps, or nodules, of erythema nodosum range in size from one to five centimeters. The nodular swelling is caused by a inflammation in the fatty layer of skin. Erythema nodosum can be self-limited and resolve on its own in three to six weeks. Upon resolution, it may leave only a temporary bruised appearance or leave a chronic indentation in the skin where the fatty layer has been injured.
11. Erythema nodosum is a condition that causes red rounded lumps (nodules) to form just below the skin surface, most commonly on the shins. In most people, no specific cause or trigger can be found. But in some people a trigger (commonly a streptococcal infection or sarcoidosis) can be identified. 1 Streptococcal infections are also a common trigger for erythema nodosum in adults. 2  Sarcoidosis. 3  This is a condition where inflammation causes tiny lumps of cells to form in various organs in your body, most commonly in the lungs and lymph glands. 4  The lumps are called granulomas.
Erythema nodosum is a type of skin inflammation that is located in a part of the fatty layer of skin. Erythema nodosum results in reddish, painful, tender lumps most commonly located in the front of the legs below the knees. The tender lumps, or nodules, of erythema nodosum range in size from a dime to a quarter. They may be inflamed off and on for a period of weeks, then shrink and become flat, leaving a bruised appearance. Erythema nodosum can go away on its own in three to six weeks. Erythema nodosum is initially managed by identifying and treating any underlying condition, along with the skin lesions. Treatments for erythema nodosum include anti-inflammatory drugs, and cortisone by mouth or injection. Colchicine is sometime used effectively to reduce inflammation.
a a a. Erythema nodosum is a rare inflammatory condition that results in the appearance of red nodules beneath the skin. These nodules may be painful and are most commonly found in the front of the legs below the knees. The hallmark symptom of erythema nodosum is the occurrence of red nodules that develop on a fatty layer, which is found directly beneath the skin. These nodules are often firm, warm, sensitive to touch, and may coalesce to form large areas of hardened skin.
Erythema nodosum is a type of panniculitis. Panniculitis occurs when there is inflammation of the layer of fat lying underneath the skin. The inflammation causes red rounded lumps (nodules) to form just below the skin surface, which are tender. Erythema nodosum most commonly affects both shins. 1 Streptococcal infections are also a common trigger for erythema nodosum in adults. 2  Sarcoidosis. 3  This is a condition where inflammation causes tiny lumps of cells to form in various organs in your body, most commonly in the lungs and lymph glands. 4  The lumps are called granulomas.