5. If you don't know your horse's date of birth, one way tell its age is by its teeth. Telling a horse's age by looking at its teeth is not exact, but it will tell you the approximate age. Horses' teeth grow and change almost all its life--until the tooth itself stops growing. Learn how to tell a horse's age by its teeth by the shape, angle and length. If you own a mature horse, it's wise to watch it for signs of aging, so you'll know when to start treating it as a senior citizen. Not all horses age at the same rate, and not all will require the exact same care.
Horses in the wild must age well or they fall prey to wild animals. Also, they are chased and ostracized by their own herd. There are some tell tale signs that can be noted as a horse ages. Of course, the age of a horse can be closely approximated by looking at its Teeth. The horse's belly starts to sag as the ligamenture starts to give. Also the horse's eyes begin to sink into the orbits a bit. The hair color changes. A horse year is equal to 6 1/2 human years for the first 3 years of the horse's life. At the horse age of three the equivalent changes and is approximately 5 years to man. From 4 the horse year equivalency changes to 2 1/2 years.
Above: Photo of a Galvayne's groove in a 14 year old horse. When using teeth to try to determine the age of a horse older than 10 years, the Galvayne's groove is one of the indicators many horsemen will use. 1 First appears at the gum line in horses about 10 years of age. 2  Each year, the groove will extend a little farther down the tooth. 3  It is expected to be about halfway down the tooth at 15 years of age, and all the way down (visible from top to bottom) at 2
1 The age of the horse can be determined with some accuracy by looking at its teeth. 2  As the horse grows and ages the changes that take place can help you tell how old it is. 3  As the horse grows older determining its age becomes more difficult. An age old, yet nearly forgotten art, is how to tell a horse's age by its teeth. Simply study the pictures below, memorize the special characteristics of each stage. Then go practice on horses that someone knows the age of. See how close you can come to the real age of the horse. 1  When the horse has grown all its permanent teeth it is said to have a full mouth. 2  The age of the horse can be determined with some accuracy by looking at its teeth. 3  As the horse grows and ages the changes that take place can help you tell how old it is
The art of determining the age of horses by inspection of the teeth is an old one. It can be developed to a considerable degree of accuracy in determining the age of young horses. The probability of error increases as age advances and becomes a guess after the horse reaches 10 to 14 years of age. 
How to age a horse, how to tell the age of a horse or pony. To tell a horses age or to age a horse as it is called, we look at its teeth. Because a horses lifestyle means it is almost continually grazing its teeth naturally grow continually and are worn down. Because of this the horses teeth gradually change throughout his life which allows us to tell its age. Ageing a horse by looking at his teeth is very accurate up to the age of eight and after that it is only the approximate age. The adult horse has 40 teeth, which consists of 24 molars, twelve incisors and male horses have four tusks. Sometimes the horse may also have four wolf teeth
Figure 7b. A more subtle indicator that can assist with aging the horse over 10 years of age is the Galvayne’s Groove (Figure 9). This is a groove that appears near the gum line of the corner incisor. It begins at center of the outer surface of the tooth in a 10 year old. Incisors Horses under 5 years of age go through some very typical dental changes. With foals a good rule of thumb to remember is that their milk teeth, or deciduous teeth, erupt, or come in, following a simple timetable of 8 days, 8 weeks and 8 months. Here is how it works.
A change in the texture of the manure may indicate that something is wrong with the horse. Further, changes in color or amount of manure may be signs that the horse is not well. A horseperson can use several other indicators to tell if a horse is not well. The horse’s eyes may become dull or the lining of the eyes and nostrils may become pale.