JCAHO is an abbreviation for Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. It is an organization made up of individuals from the private medical sector to develop and maintain standards of quality in medical facilities in the United States. 
Since then, JCAHO, or the Joint Commission, has already accredited almost 20,000 healthcare facilities and health services programs across the United States. JCAHO works as a non-profit organization and is run by several board members representing various sectors in the healthcare industry. The accreditation and evaluation program under JCAHO basically runs on a three-year cycle of health facilities and a two-year cycle for laboratories.
Overview. The Joint Commission (TJC), formerly known as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) is an independent, not-for-profit organization. TJC is the nation's oldest and largest standards-setting and accrediting body in health care. Since 1951, the Joint Commission has maintained state-of-the-art standards that focus on improving the quality and safety of care provided by health care organizations.
In 1987, the company was renamed the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO, pronounced Jay-co). In 2007, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations underwent a major rebranding and simplified its name to The Joint Commission. At that time, The Joint Commission’s hospital accreditation program would be subject to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) requirements for organizations seeking accrediting authority.
The Joint Commission (TJC), formerly known as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) is an independent, not-for-profit organization. TJC is the nation's oldest and largest standards-setting and accrediting body in health care. Since 1951, the Joint Commission has maintained state-of-the-art standards that focus on improving the quality and safety of care provided by health care organizations.
Program Sections. Joint Commission accreditation can be earned by many types of health care organizations, including hospitals, doctor’s offices, nursing homes, office-based surgery centers, behavioral health treatment facilities, and providers of home care services. 
“JCAHO” is now known as the “Joint Commission” and is also involved with evaluating the health services standards of healthcare facilities, laboratories, and other health services organization in the U.S. JCAHO was established in 1951 and holds its official headquarters in the state of Illinois. JCAHO works as a non-profit organization and is run by several board members representing various sectors in the healthcare industry. The accreditation and evaluation program under JCAHO basically runs on a three-year cycle of health facilities and a two-year cycle for laboratories.
The Joint Commission, formerly known as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, and still known more commonly by the acronym, JCAHO, is an independent, not-for-profit organization that evaluates and accredits more than 15,000 healthcare organizations in the United States. It was founded in 1951. JCAHO's Joint Commission International (JCI) was founded in the late 1990s to survey hospitals outside of the United States. JCI, which is also not-for-profit, currently accredits facilities in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and South America.
“JCAHO” stands for “Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.” As its name suggests, this organization is involved with accrediting healthcare institutions across the U.S. for the purpose of monitoring the quality of services that these institutions provide. JCAHO works as a non-profit organization and is run by several board members representing various sectors in the healthcare industry. The accreditation and evaluation program under JCAHO basically runs on a three-year cycle of health facilities and a two-year cycle for laboratories.
An independent, not-for-profit organization, The Joint Commission accredits and certifies nearly 21,000 health care organizations and programs in the United States. 