Arsenic has been known since ancient times, though probably in compound form rather than in its pure state. It is used in combination with other materials in pigments, poison gases and insecticides (such as Paris Green, calcium arsenate and lead arsenate) and is well known from former use as a rat poison.
Arsine, AsH 3, is a very poisonous gas with a garlic-like odor. Arsenic metal is very toxic, as are many of its compounds. Cupric hydrogen arsenate and a cupric arsenic-acetate (called Paris green) are used as insecticides.
Acute Arsine Toxicity-Arsine is the most acutely toxic form of arsenic and one of the major industrial causes of sudden extensive hemolysis (destruction of red blood cells).
Other, more soluble compounds with lower toxicities are now more commonly used. Today, poisons using arsenic are rare; the last person to be convicted of using arsenic as a poison was Marcus Marymont, a US sergaent, who in 1958 used white arsenic to poison his wife.
Background. Identified in 1775, arsine is a highly poisonous, colorless, nonirritating gas with a mild garlic odor. It is soluble in water, and slightly soluble in alcohol and alkalies. When nascent hydrogen is generated in the presence of arsenic, or when water reacts with a metallic arsenide, arsine evolves.
Arsenic, despite its reputation, had little application as a war gas. Some derivatives of arsine, such as methyldichloroarsine, have been used to some degree, the arsenic giving them a poisonous action as well as the more immediate and useful effects of a vesicant, lung irritant or sternutator.
In its metallic form it is bright, silver-grey and brittle. Uses. Arsenic is a well-known poison. Arsenic compounds are sometimes used as rat poisons and insecticides but their use is strictly controlled.
The King of Poisons. Albertus Magnus is usually accredited with the discovery of arsenic around 1250. Since the very earliest of times poisons have been used as a means for settling old scores, instruments for personal advancement, as a means to execute criminals and by those who found life to be an intolerable burden.
Arsenic is a natural element that can be found in rocks and soil, water, air, and in plants and animals. It can also be released into the environment from some agricultural and industrial sources. Although it is sometimes found in its pure form as a steel grey metal, arsenic is usually part of chemical compounds.