It’s an acronym you should know. ERG stands for employee resource group. Other lesser used terms include affinity groups or business networking groups. Current groups offer much more than mere professional networking opportunities. If you are like me, you are curious about the company’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. While on the diversity and inclusion page, you will most likely see an ERG tab.
erg 1. n. The centimeter-gram-second unit of energy or work equal to the work done by a force of one dyne acting over a distance of one centimeter. [From Greek. , work; see werg-in Indo-European roots .]. 
Renew in July 2010 signed an MoU with LUKoil setting basic terms for co-operation in the EU and other markets for renewable energy, with a focus on the wind sector. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
Several Concept 2 indoor rowers. An indoor rower, or rowing machine, is a machine used to simulate the action of watercraft rowing for the purpose of exercise or training for rowing. Indoor rowing has become established as a sport in its own right. The most common times for erg tests are 3 min, 5 min, 20 min, 30 min, and 1 hour. Results of these tests are an objective measure of an athlete's fitness; however, weight, technique and team coordination also impact performance in a boat, thus assembling a crew based purely on erg scores is not an optimal strategy.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners
You do your due diligence and begin to research your target companies. If you are like me, you are curious about the company’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. While on the diversity and inclusion page, you will most likely see an ERG tab.
Top Definition. erg. An awful torture machine that should be illegal under the eighth ammendment, but gets out under a loophole that it is fun.. Commonly used in the regime of an evil dictator by the name of 'Coach' and his/her faithful servant, 'coxswain'. Originally derived from the greek word meaning to work, which is what one does; very, very hard, for a long, long time. Causing the buildup of extreme amounts of lactic acid in the body, and thus great pain