A tax deferred pension plan available to self-employed individuals or unincorporated businesses for retirement purposes. A Keogh plan can be set up as either a defined-benefit or defined-contribution plan, although most plans are defined contribution. Contributions are generally tax deductible up to 25% of annual income with a limit of $47,000 (as of 2007). Keogh plan types include money-purchase plans (used by high-income earners), defined-benefit plans (which have high annual minimums) and profit-sharing plans (which offer annual flexibility based on profits).
Keogh Plans: A Keogh plan can be a Money Purchase or Profit Sharing plan or a combination of the two as explained later. The overall annual contribution limit to a Keogh plan is 25% of the net profits less the retirement contribution made by the plan itself. Retirement plans available to a self-employed individual vary from the very fundamental to the complex variety, which require the services of professional pension plan administrators. Among the plans available are the Keogh, SEP, and Defined Benefit and Simple IRA plans.
Keogh plans are popular among the self-employed and small businesses because contribution limits are higher than with Individual Retirement Accounts. The maximum contribution for a Keogh Plan is $53,000 in 2015, or up to 25% of your net earnings, compared to the $5,500 limit for IRA contributions. For this reason, a Keogh plan can be a powerful way to reduce your tax bill. Keogh plans also offer choices for small businesses whereas an IRA is only for individuals. 
You can also convert your Keogh plan to a Roth IRA. Since Keogh plans are pretax accounts and Roth IRAs are after-tax, you have to include the amount of the conversion as part of your income for the year whether you use a transfer or rollover to complete the conversion. Rollover. You can also choose to move your Keogh funds to your IRA with a rollover, sometimes called an indirect rollover. With an indirect rollover, you request that your bank pay out the funds in the Keogh account to you. Then, within 60 days, you deposit the funds into your IRA
The Keogh plan, or HR10, is an employer-funded, tax-deferred retirement plan designed for unincorporated businesses or self-employed persons. The Keogh plan, named after U.S. Representative Eugene James Keogh, was established by Congress in 1962 and expanded into the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981. Post-tax contributions can be made to IRA accounts, but Keogh contributions offer higher tax deductions. In addition, Keoghs offer plan choices geared toward self-employed individuals or small business owners, whereas IRAs are restricted to individuals.
Profit Sharing. A profit-sharing Keogh works much like a SEP IRA. Your employer or you (if you are self-employed) contribute up to 25 percent of your earned income for the year. The maximum amount your employer can contribute in 2015 is $53,000. What Is a Keogh Plan. Keogh plans are retirement savings programs mainly for people who are self-employed, although they are also available to certain small business owners. You can only set up a Keogh plan if you own your business or part of a business that is unincorporated.
Therefore, if you want to convert your Keogh plan to an IRA, you can roll over all or part of your eligible Keogh plan into a traditional IRA, a Roth IRA or a Simplified Employee Pension plan. This includes a lump-sum distribution. Defined-benefit and defined-contribution Keogh plans are both rollover-eligible. A Keogh plan is a qualified tax-deferred retirement plan targeted to the self-employed. Administrative fees are generally higher on Keogh plans than on individual retirement accounts, because Keoghs are more complex. Yet Keoghs typically allow higher contribution amounts.
Keogh plans are a type of retirement plan for self-employed people and small businesses in the United States. Scenario #1 – A self-employed accountant makes $50,000 per year from her accounting business. Her maximum contribution is 25% of her post-contribution income ($10,000, which would be the same as saying 20% of her gross income), regardless of whether she uses a SEP-IRA, Keogh Plan, or SIMPLE 401(k).