The Moscow Mathematical Papyrus is an ancient Egyptian mathematical papyrus, also called the Golenishchev Mathematical Papyrus, after its first owner outside of Egypt, Egyptologist Vladimir Golenishchev. Golenishchev bought the papyrus in 1892 or 1893 in Thebes. The Rhind Mathematical Papyrus also contains four of these type of problems. Problems 1, 19, and 25 of the Moscow Papyrus are Aha problems. For instance problem 19 asks one to calculate a quantity taken 1 and ½ times and added to 4 to make 10. In other words, in modern mathematical notation one is asked to solve.
It is one of the two well-known Mathematical Papyri along with the Moscow Mathematical Papyrus. The Rhind Papyrus is larger than the Moscow Mathematical Papyrus, while the latter is older than the former. The Rhind Mathematical Papyrus dates to the Second Intermediate Period of Egypt. It was copied by the scribe Ahmes (i.e., Ahmose; Ahmes is an older transcription favoured by historians of mathematics), from a now-lost text from the reign of king Amenemhat III (12th dynasty). The first part of the Rhind papyrus consists of reference tables and a collection of 20 arithmetic and 20 algebraic problems. The problems start out with simple fractional expressions, followed by completion (sekhem) problems and more involved linear equations (aha problems).
The Rhind (Ahmed) Papyrus Egyptian Mathematics and the Rhind Papyrus The History of Geometry in Egypt THE SEKED The Seked and the Geometry of the Egyptian Pyramids The angle of the slope of the pyramid is accidental, and determined by its Seked. 
A part of the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus. The Rhind Mathematical Papyrus (denoted RMP) (also designated as: papyrus British Museum 10057, and pBM 10058), is named after Alexander Henry Rhind who purchased the papyrus in 1858 in Luxor, Egypt; it was apparently found during illegal excavations in or near the Ramesseum. The Rhind papyrus dates to around 1650 BC and is one of the best known examples of Ancient Egyptian mathematics.
It is a well-known mathematical papyrus along with the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus. The Moscow Mathematical Papyrus is older than the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus, while the latter is the larger of the two. The Rhind Mathematical Papyrus also contains four of these type of problems. Problems 1, 19, and 25 of the Moscow Papyrus are Aha problems. For instance problem 19 asks one to calculate a quantity taken 1 and ½ times and added to 4 to make 10. In other words, in modern mathematical notation one is asked to solve.
The RHIND PAPYRUS. The Rhind Mathematical Papyrus, which is also known as the Ahmes Papyrus, is the major source of our knowledge of the mathematics of ancient Egypt. Rhind purchased the papyrus in Luxor, Egypt, in 1858. In later years, it was willed to the British Museum, where it remains today. A piece missing from the center of the papyrus was located in New York City many years later and was restored to the Rhind Papyrus after 1922.
...Read more. Papyrus was used to write on in ancient Egypt and was used until the eighth century AD when it was replaced by the paper we are familiar with today. A remarkably large number of papyri from antiquity have survived, including the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus which is almost 4,000 years old. 1 © Trustees of the British Museum. 2  The papyrus has 84 mathematical problems on it, one is known as the ‘St Ives problem’. © 3  Trustees of the British Museum. 4  The whole of one piece of the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus.
Rhind Papyrus. The Rhind papyrus is a famous document from the Egyptian Middle Kingdom that dates to 1650 BC. It was purchased by Henry Rhind in Egypt in 1858, and placed in the British Museum in 1864 by the estate of Henry Rhind. A bootleg copy that listed the initial table of Egyptian fraction representations for fractions of the form and 84 practical problems/solutions was published in Germany in 1873