This is an English locational surname of great antiquity. It originates from either of the two parishes called Weldon in the diocese of Peterborough, in the county of Northamptonshire.The name derives from the pre 7th century Olde English waella meaning a spring and dun, a mound or hill or possibly dene, a valley. Philippa Weldon was married in London in 1546, whilst William Weldon of Northampton, was recorded in the register of students for Oxford University in the year 1596.
James Weldon Johnson (June 17, 1871 – June 26, 1938) was an American author, educator, lawyer, diplomat, songwriter, and civil rights activist. Johnson is best remembered for his leadership of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), where he started working in 1917. 1 The James Weldon Johnson Middle School is named in his honor. 2  Johnson is honored with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA) on June 25. 3  On February 2, 1988, the United States Postal Service issued a 22-cent postage stamp
Elsewhere may have been the next village, or as with early recordings of Weldon, the next county, or it may have been a far away place like London, but either way one of the easiest ways of identifying a stranger was to call him or possibly her, by the name of the place from whence they came. Philippa Weldon was married in London in 1546, whilst William Weldon of Northampton, was recorded in the register of students for Oxford University in the year 1596.
Walden /wal-den/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Walden is wooded valley. Place name. Also possibly a variant of Old German names with Wald-, such as Walter. Literary: Thoreau's book and the pond Walden. 
James Weldon Johnson, much like his contemporary W. E. B. Du Bois, was a man who bridged several historical and literary trends. Born in 1871, during the optimism of the Reconstruction period, in Jacksonville, Florida, Johnson was imbued with an eclectic set of talents. As the first son of James Johnson and the former Helen Louise Dillet, James Weldon inherited his forebears' combination of industrious energy and public-mindedness, as demonstrated by his maternal grandfathers long life in public service in the Bahamas, where he served in the House of Assembly for thirty years.
Weldon Early Origins. First found in Northamptonshire where they held a family seat as Lords of the manor of Weldon, and are conjecturally descended from Robert de Bucy, a Norman Baron who acquired Weldon, an ancient Roman villa, from Olaf, from King William for his assistance at the Battle of Hastings in 1066. Our PDF Coat of Arms + Extended History product is the whole package all in one. With a full color Coat of Arms along with a very detailed History, full symbolism, bibliography and settlers listed by the centuries. More about the Weldon Family Crest...
English: habitational name from a place in Northamptonshire called Weldon, from Old English well(a) ‘spring’, ‘stream’ + dun ‘hill’. Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. You can find out when most of the Weldon families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
You can find out where the majority of the Weldon families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Weldon families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).