Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a veterinary technician. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and training to find out if this is the career for you. While both occupations share some of the same job responsibilities, a veterinary technician requires less education. A typical degree program completed by a veterinary technician lasts for two years and is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).
Requirements. Education. The first step in becoming a veterinary technician is to enroll in a certificate or associate’s degree program in the field. Some institutions require candidates to complete college-level coursework in microbiology, chemistry, biology and the humanities prior to admission. Training generally takes two years to complete.
Degree Programs. Veterinary technicians and veterinary technologists have the option to complete two-year and four-year degrees, respectively, though a degree is not required in some states. The two-year program is offered by community colleges under program names such as animal science or veterinary science.. 
Educational Requirements and Training Information. A 2-year associate's degree in veterinary technology equips students with the knowledge and skills necessary to work as veterinary technicians. Alternately, an associate's degree program for animal science may offer veterinary technology as an area of emphasis. While both occupations share some of the same job responsibilities, a veterinary technician requires less education. A typical degree program completed by a veterinary technician lasts for two years and is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).
Typically, entry-level veterinary technician positions require at minimum a two-year associate degree. There are more than 100 schools accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (see: What is the AVMA?) where interested individuals can prepare for this exciting and rewarding career choice. Several veterinary schools offer courses via online distance learning. Licensure and Certification Requirements. Graduation from an AVMA accredited veterinary school program allows students to take the credentialing exam in any state in the country.
Practical experience in a veterinary hospital is also often part of the curriculum in an associate's degree program for aspiring veterinary technicians. An externship can be completed during a student's last semester of an associate's degree program for veterinary technology or animal science. While both occupations share some of the same job responsibilities, a veterinary technician requires less education. A typical degree program completed by a veterinary technician lasts for two years and is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).
To become a veterinary technician, you must be the graduate of a 2-year or 4-year program from an AVMA-accredited school. For a list of AVMA accredited schools, click here. Most states also require technicians to pass the Veterinary Technician National Examination (VTNE) to be considered credentialed. To find out more about credentialing, click here. Visit the AAVSB website to learn specific requirements for your state
A distinction between veterinary technician (vet tech) and veterinary technologist must be made. A veterinary technologist attends school four to five years and is graduated with a B.S. degree in veterinary technology. Because of the more advanced degree, a vet technologist has greater earning potential. 
Licensure of veterinary technicians is mandatory in a majority of states. While requirements vary, candidates must generally complete a state-approved training program and pass an exam. Testing is often waived for those who have passed the National Veterinary Technician Exam. The first step in becoming a veterinary technician is to enroll in a certificate or associate’s degree program in the field. Some institutions require candidates to complete college-level coursework in microbiology, chemistry, biology and the humanities prior to admission. Training generally takes two years to complete.