According to fandom historian Fred Patten, the concept of furry originated at a science fiction convention in 1980, when a character drawing from Steve Gallacci’s Albedo Anthropomorphics started a discussion of anthropomorphic characters in science fiction novels. Examples of sexual aspects within furry fandom include erotic art and furry-themed cybersex. The term  yiff  is sometimes used to indicate sexual activity or sexual material within the fandom—this applies to sexual activity and interaction within the subculture whether in the form of cybersex or offline.
Someone who says they are furry is generally expressing an interest in anthropomorphic animals and/or creatures (and perhaps some affiliation to furry fandom). It also pertains to an interest in anthropomorphic animals and/or mythological or imaginary creatures which possess human or superhuman capabilities. The plural form of furry in all its contexts is furs or furries; the subjects of furry interest are also known as furries.
The term Furry is used to describe the Furry Fandom or an individual Furry fan, also referred to as Furries. The Furry Fandom grew out of the science fiction and fantasy communities as a unique group focused on anthropomorphic animals and creatures. The Furry Fandom is a broad community of people that come from all ranges of socioeconomic and political backgrounds. Different people count themselves as Furries for equally broad reasons.
Furry fandom is also used to refer to the community of people who gather on the Internet and at furry conventions. Examples of sexual aspects within furry fandom include erotic art and furry-themed cybersex. The term  yiff  is sometimes used to indicate sexual activity or sexual material within the fandom—this applies to sexual activity and interaction within the subculture whether in the form of cybersex or offline.
There is no one single definition of what a furry is. Even within the furry fandom, people cannot always agree on just what makes a person a furry or not. Some would argue that to be a furry, you must think and talk like one (i.e. use furry specific words and phrases). The way I see it, if or if you don’t consider yourself a furry is a matter of personal opinion. As with any hobby, most furries are normal people just like anyone you'll meet at work/school or going to/from work/school or anywhere.
What it means to be furry. Someone who says they are furry is generally expressing an interest in anthropomorphic animals and/or creatures (and perhaps some affiliation to furry fandom). They may express that that interest in a variety of ways-through art and stories through to roleplay and performance. It also pertains to an interest in anthropomorphic animals and/or mythological or imaginary creatures which possess human or superhuman capabilities. The plural form of furry in all its contexts is furs or furries; the subjects of furry interest are also known as furries.
The word furry (adj, f'eree), has several meanings, dependent on the context in which it is used. Predominantly, it means consisting of or resembling fur. It also pertains to an interest in anthropomorphic animals and/or mythological or imaginary creatures which possess human or superhuman capabilities. The plural form of furry in all its contexts is furs or furries; the subjects of furry interest are also known as furries. Because people in the fandom tend to identify closely with their avatars (or fursonas), the word is often used to mean a group of furry characters in art or roleplay
In conclusion, as with any hobby, there are some furries that have taken it too far and/or perverted what for many is a fun harmless hobby. If only the silent majority were not so silent, people would realise there is more to furries then perversion. The way I see it, if or if you don’t consider yourself a furry is a matter of personal opinion. As with any hobby, most furries are normal people just like anyone you'll meet at work/school or going to/from work/school or anywhere.
Because the Furry Fandom encompasses such a wide range of people and interests, to term someone as a Furry is similar to calling someone a Sports Fan. The term Sports Fan itself does not identify the sport in which a person is interested, at what level or even which teams or regions in which they take an interest. The Furry Fandom is a broad community of people that come from all ranges of socioeconomic and political backgrounds. Different people count themselves as Furries for equally broad reasons.
Furries are people who love anthropomorphic (humanized) animals, and often identify themselves with them. Many see thier inner selves as an anthro, and also many are attracted to anthros sexually, though this is not a requirement. To sum it all up, furry is a fandom. Hence the term furry fandom. That is the people who consider themselves one, not the animals with human characteristics that are in some anime's. What does it mean to be a furry. I know this can be a touchy subject, but you don't need to worry about me being prejudiced or anything about it. 24 following.