The sun is made of Ionized gases mostly Hydrogen and about 25% helium. Light comes from the thermonuclear fusion that is achieved at the high temperatures in the core of the s … tar, at about 18 million degrees kelvin. The sun is made out of gas-mostly hydrogen gas.   This gas is compressed into a ball (the sun is a huge 'ball' of gas) by the immense pull of the sun's gravity pull … ing it towards the centre of the sun.
Most of the gas — about 72 percent — is hydrogen. Nuclear fusion converts hydrogen into other elements. The sun is also composed of about 26 percent helium and trace amounts of other elements — oxygen, carbon, neon, nitrogen, magnesium, iron and silicon. These elements are created in the sun's core, which makes up 25 percent of the sun. Gravitational forces create tremendous pressure and temperatures in the core. The temperature of the sun in this layer is about 27 million degrees F (15 million degrees C).
Courtesy: McREL. The sun is the major external source of the energy, in the form of heat and light, needed to make the Earth's processes work. The sun's light provides energy for most life forms. Plants use sunlight, water, and minerals they collect from the soil to form foodstuffs for themselves and for animals
Sunlight is a portion of the electromagnetic radiation given off by the Sun, in particular infrared, visible, and ultraviolet light. On Earth, sunlight is filtered through Earth's atmosphere, and is obvious as daylight when the Sun is above the horizon. When the direct solar radiation is not blocked by clouds, it is experienced as sunshine, a combination of bright light and radiant heat. In terms of energy, sunlight at Earth's surface is around 52 to 55 percent infrared (above 700 nm), 42 to 43 percent visible (400 to 700 nm), and 3 to 5 percent ultraviolet (below 400 nm).
The Sun is a big ball of gas and plasma. Most of the gas is hydrogen or helium, but there are also small amounts of other elements such as oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, magnesium and iron. There’s lots to discover on Sun|trek, so dive in and. start exploring here. We can’t do your home work for you, but if you have a question about the Sun you can always.
The Sun (in Greek: Helios, in Latin: Sol) is the star at the center of the Solar System and is by far the most important source of energy for life on Earth. It is a nearly perfect spherical ball of hot plasma, with internal convective motion that generates a magnetic field via a dynamo process. About three quarters of the Sun's mass consists of hydrogen; the rest is mostly helium, with much smaller quantities of heavier elements, including oxygen, carbon, neon and iron. The Sun is a G-type main-sequence star (G2V) based on spectral class and it is informally referred to as a yellow dwarf.
The Sun is a huge, glowing sphere of hot gas. Most of this gas is hydrogen (about 70%) and helium (about 28%). Carbon, nitrogen and oxygen make up 1.5% and the other 0.5% is made up of small amounts of many other elements such as neon, iron, silicon, magnesium and sulfur. 
The sun is a big ball of hot gases. The gases are converted into energy in the sun's core. The energy moves outward through the interior layers, into the sun's atmosphere, and is released into the solar system as heat and light. These elements are created in the sun's core, which makes up 25 percent of the sun. Gravitational forces create tremendous pressure and temperatures in the core. The temperature of the sun in this layer is about 27 million degrees F (15 million degrees C).
Confidence votes 467. Sunlight is the driving force for many things on Earth. The main components in the sunlight are. 1. Infrared radition in the form of heat. 2. Ultraviolet radiation (partially). 3. Visible radiation. Out of those, Visible radiation is the dominant part in the visible light. They are in the range of 400 nm to 700 nm. spectrum of light is the colors of son or u can say the elements of sun. we find out the elments of sun with the help of spectroscope, a prism in spectroscope help to br … eak down the colors or spectra of sun light.