The Lord's law of health, also known as the Word of Wisdom, is a gateway to enriching every aspect of life. We believe that some substances are harmful to the body, including coffee, tea, alcohol, tobacco, and illegal drugs. I choose not to drink or partake of things that can harm my body because 1) I respect my body. I want to have complete control of myself and my actions and 2) I don't use tobacco, alcohol, coffee, tea or illegal drugs because I believe that it brings unhappiness.
Tea culture is defined by the way tea is made and consumed, by the way the people interact with tea, and by the aesthetics surrounding tea drinking, it includes aspects of tea production, tea brewing, tea arts and ceremony, society, history, health, ethics, education, and communication and media issues. 
We do not drink coffee, tea, alcohol, use tobacco, or illegal drugs because of a commandment known as the Word of Wisdom. The Word of Wisdom was a commandment revealed to the prophet Joseph Smith in 1833. It tells us the importance of keeping care of our bodies because they are temples. I choose not to drink or partake of things that can harm my body because 1) I respect my body. I want to have complete control of myself and my actions and 2) I don't use tobacco, alcohol, coffee, tea or illegal drugs because I believe that it brings unhappiness.
Tea originated in the southwest of China, possibly as a medicinal drink. It became a popular drink throughout China during the Tang dynasty, and tea drinking spread to other East Asian countries. Portuguese priests and merchants introduced it to the West during the 16th century. Tea is an aromatic beverage commonly prepared by pouring hot or boiling water over cured leaves of the Camellia sinensis, an evergreen shrub native to Asia. After water, it is the most widely consumed drink in the world
Why You Should Be Drinking Tea. Tea's health benefits: Although coffee has been linked to some health benefits such as lower risk of certain types of cancer, there are also some negative effects associated with coffee, such as caffeine dependency. The beneficial antioxidants, polyphenols, in tea may make the body absorb caffeine differently, over a longer period of time. So, while you might have to stop drinking coffee by noon to avoid sleep problems, you probably can go on drinking tea the rest of the day with no ill effects.
1 Preventing or delaying Parkinson's disease. 2  There is evidence that people who drink caffeinated beverages such as coffee, tea, and cola have a decreased risk of Parkinson's disease. 3  For men, the effect seems to depend on the amount of caffeine consumed. The body breaks down the caffeine in coffee to get rid of it. Alcohol can decrease how quickly the body breaks down caffeine. Taking coffee along with alcohol might cause too much caffeine in the bloodstream and caffeine side effects including jitteriness, headache, and fast heartbeat.
Scientists have devised a way to produce alcohol with used coffee grounds. (Photo via Getty) | Getty. Scientists have devised a way to produce alcohol with used coffee grounds. (Photo via Getty) | Getty. Forget boozy coffee drinks. Scientists have now devised a way to make alcohol from used coffee grounds. And, yes, the 80-proof beverage should make drinkers feel the alcoholic effects.
Medicines in my Home: Caffeine and Your Body Caffeine occurs naturally in more than 60 plants including coffee beans, tea leaves, kola nuts used to flavor soft drink colas, and cacao pods used to make chocolate products. Man-made caffeine is sometimes added to foods, drinks, and medicines. 
Start substituting one of your daily coffees with a cup of green tea. Continue substituting little by little. 1  If you drink 4 coffees a day, begin by drinking 3 coffees and one green tea. 2  A day later (or a few days – depending on how tough going it is) move that down to two coffees and two green teas. 