Circular paraboloid. A parabolic (or paraboloid or paraboloidal) reflector (or dish or mirror) is a reflective surface used to collect or project energy such as light, sound, or radio waves. Its shape is part of a circular paraboloid, that is, the surface generated by a parabola revolving around its axis. The parabolic reflector transforms an incoming plane wave traveling along the axis into a spherical wave converging toward the focus. The parabolic reflector functions due to the geometric properties of the paraboloidal shape: any incoming ray that is parallel to the axis of the dish will be reflected to a central point, or  focus .
A parabola (/pəˈraebələ/ ; pəˈræbələ plural parabolas or, parabolae adjective, parabolic From: greek) παραβολή is a-two, dimensional-mirror symmetrical, curve which is Approximately-u shaped when oriented as shown in the diagram, below but which can be in any orientation in its. plane The point where the slope of the parabola is 1 lies at one end of the latus rectum. The length of the semilatus rectum (half of the latus rectum) is the difference between the x-coordinates of this point, which is considered as P in the above derivation of the coordinates of the focus, and of the focus itself.
A parabola is the two-dimensional figure. (The distinction is like that between a sphere and a circle.) However, in informal language, the word parabola and its associated adjective parabolic are often used in place of paraboloid and paraboloidal. The parabolic reflector functions due to the geometric properties of the paraboloidal shape: any incoming ray that is parallel to the axis of the dish will be reflected to a central point, or  focus .
DEFINITION of 'Parabolic Indicator'. A technical analysis strategy that uses a trailing stop and reverse method called SAR, or stop-and-reversal, to determine good exit and entry points. Also known as Parabolic Stop And Reverse (PSAR). 
The term parabolic move is derived from the mathematical term parabola. If you have Googled the term parabola, then you have probably seen a picture of what a parabola looks like. Now apply this to a stock chart, and you are witnessing what is called a parabolic move. In a parabolic move, a stock starts going up. Buying interest increases dramatically, sending the stock into orbit.
Full Definition of PARABOLA. 1. : a plane curve generated by a point moving so that its distance from a fixed point is equal to its distance from a fixed line: the intersection of a right circular cone with a plane parallel to an element of the cone. 2. 
The point on the parabola that intersects the axis of symmetry is called the  vertex , and is the point where the parabola is most sharply curved. The distance between the vertex and the focus, measured along the axis of symmetry, is the focal length. The latus rectum is the chord of the parabola which is parallel to the directrix and passes through the focus. Parabolas can open up, down, left, right, or in some other arbitrary direction. The point where the slope of the parabola is 1 lies at one end of the latus rectum. The length of the semilatus rectum (half of the latus rectum) is the difference between the x-coordinates of this point, which is considered as P in the above derivation of the coordinates of the focus, and of the focus itself.