Subject-matter jurisdiction There are three types of subject matter jurisdiction: 1  General Jurisdiction, which means that a court has the ability to hear and decide a wide range of cases. 2  Unless a law or constitutional provision denies them jurisdiction, courts of general jurisdiction can handle any kind of case. 1 Limited Jurisdiction, which means that a court has restrictions on the cases it can decide. 2  Small claims court is a court of limited jurisdiction. 3  It can only hear and decide cases that claim damages of $10,000 or less. 4  Limited civil courts can only hear and decide cases for up to $25,000
1 The California superior courts are general jurisdiction courts. 2  Limited Jurisdiction, which means that a court has restrictions on the cases it can decide. 3  Small claims court is a court of limited jurisdiction. 4  It can only hear and decide cases that claim damages of $10,000 or less. 1 Limited Jurisdiction, which means that a court has restrictions on the cases it can decide. 2  Small claims court is a court of limited jurisdiction. 3  It can only hear and decide cases that claim damages of $10,000 or less. 4  Limited civil courts can only hear and decide cases for up to $25,000
So, the answer to what the different state cases handle is fairly broad-they are courts of general jurisdiction and can hear cases that deal with everything that the federal courts don't have an exclusive right to deal with. Because the founders of the country wanted to ensure that too much power was not concentrated in a strong federal government, the state courts actually have more rights to hear different cases than the federal courts do.
Among the many protections set in place by the US constitution are limitations on exactly what federal court has jurisdiction over. These protections were established in Article III of the Constitution, and limited the power of the Federal government (and the federal court system). Because the founders of the country wanted to ensure that too much power was not concentrated in a strong federal government, the state courts actually have more rights to hear different cases than the federal courts do.
Trial courts of limited jurisdiction may be limited in subject-matter jurisdiction (such as juvenile, probate, and family courts in many U.S. states, or the United States Tax Court in the federal judiciary) or by other means, such as small claims courts in many states for civil cases with a low amount in controversy. 
General and Special Jurisdiction Courts. Although each state is different, most states have special jurisdiction courts, or courts that only handle one type of case. For criminal cases, there may be special courts that only hear traffic cases, or cases with youthful offenders. Look up your state's small claims system to see how you can begin a small claims suit. Courts of general jurisdiction hear every other type of case. For civil courts, this can include personal injury cases, like medical malpractice or car accidents; disputes over real estate, or business litigation. For criminal courts, this includes more serious or unusual crimes that do not have a special court
A federal court has exclusive jurisdiction (i.e. is the only court that gets to hear) cases arising out of the US Constitution, as well as some other limited types of cases like bankruptcy cases and tax cases. Other than these limited excepts, state courts can handle pretty much everything else. Because the founders of the country wanted to ensure that too much power was not concentrated in a strong federal government, the state courts actually have more rights to hear different cases than the federal courts do.
All these courts are distinguished from courts of general jurisdiction (also known as superior jurisdiction), which are the default type of trial court that can hear any case which is not required to be first heard in a court of limited jurisdiction. For example, in Colorado, roughly 97% of all civil cases were filed in state courts and 89% of the civil cases filed in federal court were bankruptcies in 2002, a typical year. Just 0.3% of the non-bankruptcy civil cases in the state were filed in federal court.