Description. The Mars Pathfinder was the second of NASA's low-cost planetary Discovery missions to be launched. The mission consists of a stationary lander and a surface rover. The mission had the primary objective of demonstrating the feasibility of low-cost landings on and exploration of the Martian surface
Mission Summary. Artist's concept of lander and microrover on Mars. The Mars Pathfinder Mission is the second launch in the Discovery Program, a NASA initiative for small planetary missions with a maximum three year development cycle and a cost cap of $150M (FY92) for development. 
The Mars Pathfinder (formerly known as the Mars Environmental Survey, or MESUR, Pathfinder) is the second of NASA's low-cost planetary Discovery missions. The Mars Pathfinder's Sojourner Rover rolled onto Mars' surface on July 6 at about 05:40 UT (1:40 AM EDT). Image received at 2:00 AM EDT July 6 shows the rover completely off the ramp, all six wheels on the martian soil.
Mars Pathfinder. Image left: Artist's rendition of the Mars Pathfinder. Mars Pathfinder was designed to be a demonstration of the technology necessary to deliver a lander and a free-ranging robotic rover to the surface of Mars in a cost-effective and efficient manner.
Elizabeth Howell, SPACE.com Contributor | September 24, 2012 06:47pm ET. The Mars Pathfinder mission was an important first step in rovers for NASA. The 1997 mission included the first successful rover on Mars, called Sojourner, which was delivered to the surface by the Pathfinder lander. One of the mission's innovations was Pathfinder's landing system. 
Mars Pathfinder (MESUR Pathfinder) is an American robotic spacecraft that landed a base station with a roving probe on Mars in 1997. It consisted of a lander, renamed the Carl Sagan Memorial Station, and a lightweight (10.6 kg/23 lb) wheeled robotic Mars rover named Sojourner. The Mars Pathfinder was also remarkable for its extremely low cost relative to other unmanned space missions to Mars.
Mars Pathfinder status report. Preliminary Science Results. The Mars Pathfinder (formerly known as the Mars Environmental Survey, or MESUR, Pathfinder) is the second of NASA's low-cost planetary Discovery missions. The mission consists of a stationary lander and a surface rover. The Mars Pathfinder's Sojourner Rover rolled onto Mars' surface on July 6 at about 05:40 UT (1:40 AM EDT). Image received at 2:00 AM EDT July 6 shows the rover completely off the ramp, all six wheels on the martian soil.
1 Mars Pathfinder The Mars Pathfinder mission featured NASA's first rover to explore the surface of the Red Planet. 2  The pioneering mission demonstrated a number of innovative, economical, and highly effective approaches to spacecraft and planetary mission design. 
The Mars Pathfinder Mission is the second launch in the Discovery Program, a NASA initiative for planetary missions with a maximum three year development cycle and a cost cap of $150M (FY92) for development. The Mars Pathfinder is managed for NASA by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California. The mission is primarily an engineering demonstration of key technologies and concepts for eventual use in future missions to Mars employing scientific landers.