Broody Box. Once you conclude the hen is broody, move her to a separate place to brood. Trust me on this one: She cannot stay in the regular egg nest. If she does, other hens will get in the nest with her to lay their eggs, in the process breaking eggs and coating the rest with goo. Some broody hens like to leave the broody box occasionally, others never do so even if given the chance. If a hen makes it obvious she would like to leave the box for a quick outing, I generally allow her to do so.
This is because as they've been bred, the tendancy to go broody has been bred out of them (if you're into egg production a broody hen is costly. She won't lay eggs for the 21 days she sits on her nest and she won't lay them for awhile afterwards as she raises her chicks). If you'd specifically LIKE to buy hens that have a tendancy to go broody, check out the list of broody hen breeds. Broody hens are responding to a natural urge to sit on a clutch of eggs long enough for chicks to hatch. Although most city hatched eggs aren't fertile, it doesn't matter to the hen. An egg is an egg in her books, and she usually gets quite insistant that she's going to hatch them!
It took me about 10 hours to get them into another incubator (I had to ring round friends to find one,) and only 2 of the eggs hatched, the rest dead in shell. I think if she has only been off for a little while they will be OK. You only have 5 days or so to wait to find out. The maximum time for a hen to be off the eggs is 20 mins so they say, although I have to admitt to shutting the door on one of mine for half an hour :shock: they were ok.
If you mean during the time in which she is trying to hatch chicks, then the maximum amount in which she can leave her eggs for a quick break is about 1-5 hours at most, depending upon the temperature and surroundings where the eggs are. Eggs can keep for quite a while, while the hen is making a clutch.   How long does it take for her to make a clutch?   A clutch takes however long she'd like it to take lol. The average chicken lays about one egg every other day, and she, depending on her size, will likely make a clutch of 4-10 eggs.
A hen should only be broody for the time it takes to hatch her eggs, 21 days. However there are extremes. The commercially bred egg layers of today rarely go broody an … d if they do start they may stop at anytime, 2 day, 2 weeks. If you mean during the time in which she is trying to hatch chicks,  then the maximum amount in which she can leave her eggs for a quick  break is about 1-5 hours at most, d … epending upon the temperature  and surroundings where the eggs are.
How long can a broody hen safely leave her nest of eggs, in other words, how long can fertile eggs be left alone? I've had hens sit on the wrong nest for hours, and even had this happen during temps in the 30s. Mine ususally only leave for about 30 minutes before they get back on. I've had one that would never leave the nest and we had to remove her so she could go to the bathroom every other day!! Great hubby, 2 kids, 3 furry babies, lots of chickens!!
Hens Acting Broody. When a hen goes broody it means she has decided she wants to sit on her eggs and hatch chicks. A normal hen will sit on the nest for an hour or so each day while she lays her egg. When she is done she will leave the nest and resume her daily activities. When a broody hen feels that she has enough eggs, she will stop laying and start sitting on the eggs she has collected. A hen's eggs can only start to develop into chicks if they are fertile and have proper warmth for a period of time.
Retired in 2005, breeding Araucana chickens. A broody hen will not allow the incubating eggs to cool more than a degree or two while she is off the nest. Any more than about 15 minutes and she would be in a panic to return to the nest. Eggs can keep for quite a while, while the hen is making a clutch.   How long does it take for her to make a clutch?   A clutch takes however long she'd like it to take lol. The average chicken lays about one egg every other day, and she, depending on her size, will likely make a clutch of 4-10 eggs.