unethical-not conforming to approved standards of social or professional behavior;  unethical business practices . 2. unethical-not adhering to ethical or moral principles;  base and unpatriotic motives ; a base, degrading way of life ;  cheating is dishonorable ; they considered colonialism immoral ;  unethical practices in handling public funds . Synonyms: dishonourable, immoral, base, dishonorable. Browse.
Unethical Behavior in the Real World. There are many ways that businesses engage in unethical conduct, exploiting their workers, their customers, and even the public at large. Here are a few examples that illustrate the scope of unethical business practices. Lesson Summary. Unethical behavior in business refers to actions that fail to rise to acceptable standards of business practices. As you can see, unethical business practices can creep into every type of business imaginable.
3 Types of Unethical Behavior in a Business. Unethical business behavior can be loosely defined as that which can get you investigated, fired or sent to jail. Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. In 2002, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which established new laws to protect investors against rampant corporate fraud. Mistreating Employees. Many examples exist of unethical corporate conduct toward employees or other workers in the supply chain. Many U.S. corporations used Third-World sweatshops to produce their goods; some have even been found to use child labor.
In part, this is because ethical business practices result from a corporate culture that consistently places value on ethical behaviour, a culture and climate that usually emanates from the top of the organization. Business ethics operates on the premise, for example, that the ethical operation of a private business is possible—those who dispute that premise, such as libertarian socialists, (who contend that business ethics is an oxymoron) do so by definition outside of the domain of business ethics proper.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: unethical (Adjective). Not morally approvable; morally bad; not ethical. The corporation was accused of unethical behavior for knowingly producing a product suspected of harming health. 
Adj. 1. unethical-not conforming to approved standards of social or professional behavior; unethical business practices. wrong-contrary to conscience or morality or law; it is wrong for the rich to take advantage of the poor; cheating is wrong; it is wrong to lie. unethical. adj. 1. not ethical; improper: companies involved in unethical practices. Thesaurus AntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend:
Business ethics (also corporate ethics) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment. It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations. Business ethics has normative and descriptive dimensions. As a corporate practice and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative. Business ethics operates on the premise, for example, that the ethical operation of a private business is possible—those who dispute that premise, such as libertarian socialists, (who contend that business ethics is an oxymoron) do so by definition outside of the domain of business ethics proper.
So when we talk about unethical behavior in business, we're talking about actions that don't conform to the acceptable standards of business operations, failing to do what is right in every situation. Lesson Summary. Unethical behavior in business refers to actions that fail to rise to acceptable standards of business practices. As you can see, unethical business practices can creep into every type of business imaginable.
In some cases, it may be an individual within a business who is unethical in the course of his or her job and at other times, we're talking about corporate culture, where the whole business is corrupt from the top down, with disastrous results for society. Lesson Summary. Unethical behavior in business refers to actions that fail to rise to acceptable standards of business practices. As you can see, unethical business practices can creep into every type of business imaginable.