A: Lopressor (metoprolol) is in a class of drugs known as beta blockers. Beta blockers are used to treat chest pain and high blood pressure; they are also used to treat or prevent heart attack. Drinking alcohol with metoprolol can increase the dizziness and drowsiness that often occurs in patients taking metoprolol.
A: Metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL) is classified in a class of drugs called beta-blockers. Beta-blockers are used to treat angina (chest pain) and hypertension (high blood pressure). Beta-blockers are also used to treat or prevent heart attack.
Metoprolol is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure. It also is used to prevent angina (chest pain) and to improve survival after a heart attack. Metoprolol also is used in combination with other medications to treat heart failure. Metoprolol is in a class of medications called beta blockers. It works by relaxing blood vessels and slowing heart rate to improve blood flow and decrease
It is used to treat angina (chest pain), hypertension (high blood pressure), and to treat or prevent heart attack. Some of the side effects that may be experienced with metoprolol include: low blood pressure, slow heart rate, rash or itching, shortness of breath, dizziness, drowsiness, and depression.
Metoprolol is in a group of drugs called beta-blockers. Beta-blockers affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins). Metoprolol is used to treat angina (chest pain) and hypertension (high blood pressure). It is also used to treat or prevent heart attack. Metoprolol may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Metoprolol is in a group of drugs called beta-blockers. Beta-blockers affect the heart and circulation (blood flow through arteries and veins). Metoprolol is used to treat angina (chest pain) and hypertension (high blood pressure). It is also used to treat or prevent heart attack.
Metoprolol is prescribed for patients with high blood pressure (hypertension), used to treat chest pain (angina pectoris) related to coronary artery disease, and is also useful in slowing and regulating certain types of abnormally rapid heart rates (tachycardias).