The Maryland Small Ruminant Page was created in 1998 as an information portal for sheep and goat producers. It was developed and is solely maintained by Susan Schoenian, Sheep & Goat Specialist for University of Maryland Extension. Since 1998, the web site has undergone many changes and additions. 
From weaned calves or yearlings on pasture to fed cattle in the feedlot, Bovatec can help make our beef producers more efficient. Increased efficiency helps keep the cost of production down. Bovatec is a standard medication in many MFA feeds. Following is a brief synopsis about the product and its benefits. No step-up program is required. Feeding trials show that Bovatec is palatable and cattle adapt quickly to the feed with no reduction in feed intake. It is also safe to use and does not have to be withdrawn from cattle feeds prior to slaughter. As a result, it can continue to improve gain and feed efficiency until the day cattle are marketed
Bovatec is fed for increased rate of weight gain in ¬pasture cattle (slaughter, stocker, feeder cattle and dairy and beef replacement heifers). Bovatec is fed for the prevention of coccidiosis (review label for specific strains) in sheep maintained in confinement. 
A type of supplement that is used in certain feeds is called an ionophore. Better known by the names Bovatec® and Rumensin®, ionophores are used to improve feed efficiency in beef cattle and to aid in the prevention of some diseases. It’s found in premixed feeds, blocks and in bags for adding to rations. 
Lasalocid is an antibacterial agent and a coccidiostat, which is produced by strains of Streptomyces lasaliensis. It is the drug in the feed additives called Bovatec and Avatec. Lasalocid is able to make neutral complexes with monovalent and divalent cations and transport them through apolar phase (including lipid bilayer membranes). It can transport also big organic cations like dopamine. 
Bovatec (lasalocid) is a coccidiocide that kills coccidia. It is an ionophore that moves potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium into the cell causing the cell to burst. Bovatec works primarily on a single developmental stage of coccidia, providing a more narrow range of action than Deccox. Deccox and Bovatec are both manufactured by the same company, Alpharma, LLC. Deccox (decoquinate) is a coccidiostat that stops the growth of coccidia, but does not kill coccidia. It works by inhibiting the activity of the cell’s mitochondria, interfering with energy production within the cell
View PDF. Deccox and Bovatec are both manufactured by the same company, Alpharma, LLC. Deccox (decoquinate) is a coccidiostat that stops the growth of coccidia, but does not kill coccidia. It works by inhibiting the activity of the cell’s mitochondria, interfering with energy production within the cell
ABOUT THE PRODUCT. Bovatec B1200 Supplement can be fed to cattle and sheep. In cattle, Bovatec B1200 Supplement can be used for improved feed efficiency, increased rate of gain and control of coccidiosis. In sheep, Bovatec B1200 Supplement can be used to control coccidiosis.