Please use this list of African baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Kimathi in African origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. 
Baby Names Ocean-Baby Names that your baby will love. Name Meanings and Name Origins from around the whole world! Copyright © 2010 BabyNamesOcean.com. All Rights Reserved. 
Baby Name Meaning. If you choose a name with the baby name meaning being of highest importance, you must raise the child in a manner to reflect that attribute. If the baby name you chose has as... Names like Eugene, Constance, Heime and William may be strong family names, but don't feel pressured to use a name you don't feel is right for your child.
The Number 1 suggests a strong sense of independence, desire to excel and to lead. It is the most ambitious number and can bring those who identified with it to the greatest heights. Dream the impossible dream is the deepest motivation of these people, and the hidden motive is self-acceptance. Number 1 promotes masculine energy expressed as action and accomplishment. Number 1 represent Desire. You have power and ability to chose your own destiny and achieve anything you want in life. You can expand in any direction according to your will and the set of values. You have passion for justice and belong to the position of authority.
Boy name. Adwin Meaning: Akan of Ghana word meaning “artist” or “thinker.”Boy name. Abasi Meaning: Swahili name meaning “stern.”. Abayomi Meaning: Of uncertain African origin.Means “born to bring me joy.”. Abdalla Meaning: “servant of God.” Boy name. Abdelahi Meaning unknown. Adom meaning “help from God” or “God’s blessing.” Boy name. Adonis Meaning: God of peace and love.Boy name. Adrian A name used for the nobility class of the Betsileo people of central Madagascar.
Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit. Manu is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ma-nu. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6866 in baby name popularity for boys with 12 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name.
Meaning: The African name Nanyamka means - God's gift.. 
Adjatay Meaning: Cameroon name meaning “prince.”. Adofo Meaning: Akan of Ghana name meaning “one who loves.”Boy name. Adom meaning “help from God” or “God’s blessing.” Boy name. Adonis Meaning: God of peace and love.Boy name. Adrian A name used for the nobility class of the Betsileo people of central Madagascar.
1 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. You have power and ability to chose your own destiny and achieve anything you want in life. You can expand in any direction according to your will and the set of values. You have passion for justice and belong to the position of authority.