David Livingstone © Livingstone was a Scottish missionary and one of the greatest European explorers of Africa, whose opening up the interior of the continent contributed to the 'Scramble for Africa'. David Livingstone was born at Blantyre, south of Glasgow on 19 March 1813. At 10 he began working in the local cotton mill, with school lessons in the evenings. In 1836, he began studying medicine and theology in Glasgow and decided to become a missionary doctor
Once more I dedicate my whole self to Thee.”. Dr. David Livingstone, Missionary Explorer David Livingstone was a famous doctor, missionary, and explorer who is well known for his explorations of Southern and Central Africa. He was born on March 19, 1813 in Scotland. He grew up in a poor family and began working at the age of ten in a factory that produced cloth. 
I want men who will come if there is no road at all.”. – David Livingstone. David Livingstone (1813-1872) was an explorer, missionary, and anti-slavery campaigner. He became a great hero of the Victorian era for his epic discoveries in the heart of unexplored Africa. He spent the last six years of his life almost cut off from the outside world, refusing to leave his beloved Africa. David Livingstone was born on March 21, 1813 in the mill town of Blantyre, Lanarkshire, Scotland. 
Sir Henry Morton Stanley GCB (born John Rowlands; 28 January 1841 – 10 May 1904) was a Welsh journalist and explorer famous for his exploration of central Africa and his search for missionary and explorer David Livingstone. 
1 The David Livingstone Centre in Blantyre, Scotland, is a museum in his honour. 2  David Livingstone Memorial Primary School in his birthplace, Blantyre, Lanarkshire, Scotland. 3  David Livingstone Memorial Church of the Church of Scotland, in Blantyre, Lanarkshire, Scotland. Livingstone has been portrayed by M.A. Wetherell in Livingstone (1925), Percy Marmont in David Livingstone (1936), Sir Cedric Hardwicke in Stanley and Livingstone (1939), Bernard Hill in Mountains of the Moon (1990) and Sir Nigel Hawthorne in the TV movie Forbidden Territory (1997).
David Livingstone was 27 years old when he sailed from Scotland to South Africa as a Christian missionary in 1840. He spent much of the next 33 years traveling in the African interior, eventually becoming as famous for his explorations as for his missionary work. 
David Livingstone was born on March 19, 1813, in Blantyre, South Lanarkshire, Scotland, and grew up with several siblings in a single tenement room. He started working at a cotton mill company as a child and would follow his long work schedule with schooling during evenings and weekends. A copy of Livingstone's 1871 diary entries can be found at the website of the David Livingstone Spectral Imaging Project, which chronicles his time in Nyangwe and sheds light on his place as a complex historical figure.
David Livingstone (19 March 1813 – 1 May 1873) was a Scottish Congregationalist pioneer medical missionary with the London Missionary Society and an explorer in Africa. Livingstone has been portrayed by M.A. Wetherell in Livingstone (1925), Percy Marmont in David Livingstone (1936), Sir Cedric Hardwicke in Stanley and Livingstone (1939), Bernard Hill in Mountains of the Moon (1990) and Sir Nigel Hawthorne in the TV movie Forbidden Territory (1997).
David Livingstone (19 March 1813 – 1 May 1873) was a Scottish Congregationalist pioneer medical missionary with the London Missionary Society and an explorer in Africa. The David Livingstone Centre in Blantyre, Scotland, is a museum in his honour. 2  David Livingstone Memorial Primary School in his birthplace, Blantyre, Lanarkshire, Scotland. 3  David Livingstone Memorial Church of the Church of Scotland, in
David Livingstone was born on 19 March 1813 in the mill town of Blantyre, in a tenement building for the workers of a cotton factory on the banks of the Clyde River under the bridge crossing into Bothwell, Lanarkshire, Scotland. The David Livingstone Centre in Blantyre, Scotland, is a museum in his honour. 2  David Livingstone Memorial Primary School in his birthplace, Blantyre, Lanarkshire, Scotland. 3  David Livingstone Memorial Church of the Church of Scotland, in