Vitamin A interferes with absorption of vitamin K, and large doses of vitamin E decrease vitamin K–dependent clotting factors, thus promoting bleeding. Toxicity from food is rare, because the body excretes vitamin K much more rapidly than other fat-soluble vitamins. Toxicity. High doses of vitamin K can reduce the effectiveness of anticoagulant drugs such as warfarin (Coumadin), which is used to prevent blood clotting. People taking these drugs should maintain a consistent daily intake of vitamin K. Megadose supplements of vitamin A and E can pose a risk to vitamin-K status.
Plasma also contains blood clotting factors, sugars, lipids, vitamins, minerals, hormones, enzymes, antibodies, and other proteins. It is likely that plasma contains some of every protein produced by the body--approximately 500 have been identified in human plasma so far. 
Photo Credit Image Source/Photodisc/Getty Images. Vitamin K refers to a group of fat-soluble vitamins that play a crucial role in blood clotting. They act as a co-factor for seven vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, because without vitamin K, your blood is unable to clot. You get vitamin K from a variety of foods in your diet. Rich sources include liver, turnip greens, broccoli, kale, cabbage and asparagus. Vitamin K causes the blood to coagulate, thereby reducing the risk of bleeding. This effect may interact with certain medications. Some individuals are at risk of developing dangerous blood clots, which can lead to heart attack or stroke. If this is the case, your doctor may prescribe a blood thinner. If you are prescribed a blood thinner, avoid taking vitamin-K supplements. You may also need to avoid vitamin K-rich foods.
Vitamin K is essential for blood clotting. Vitamin K modifies  certain proteins that are required for blood coagulation. The  modification of the proteins allows them to bin … d calcium ions. 1  Egg Vitamins and Nutrition Eggs are economical and highly nutritious. 2  Eggs have vitamins and minerals that help to get you started in the morning. Calcium is a very important vitamin involved in blood clotting because calcium ions are used in the thrombin. The thrombin is a product of prothrombin, calcium ions and thromb … oplastin. When thrombin is added with fibrinogen (which is inactive) it creates fibrin, which forms the clot. 1 person found this useful.
Vitamin A. Vitamin A was the first fat-soluble vitamin identified (in 1913). Vitamin A comprises the preformed retinoids, plus the precursor forms, the provitamin A carotenoids. Preformed retinoids is a collective term for retinol, retinal, and retinoic acid, all of which are biologically active. Toxicity. High doses of vitamin K can reduce the effectiveness of anticoagulant drugs such as warfarin (Coumadin), which is used to prevent blood clotting. People taking these drugs should maintain a consistent daily intake of vitamin K. Megadose supplements of vitamin A and E can pose a risk to vitamin-K status.
Vitamin K helps in the activation of seven blood-clotting-factor proteins that participate in a series of reactions to form a clot that eventually stops the flow of blood. Vitamin K also participates in the activation of bone proteins, which greatly enhances their calcium-binding properties. Toxicity. High doses of vitamin K can reduce the effectiveness of anticoagulant drugs such as warfarin (Coumadin), which is used to prevent blood clotting. People taking these drugs should maintain a consistent daily intake of vitamin K. Megadose supplements of vitamin A and E can pose a risk to vitamin-K status.
The 'K' in vitamin K is derived from the German word koagulation.. Coagulation is the process in which blood forms clots. Vitamin K facilitates the function of several proteins, including those that are responsible for blood clot formation. It plays a vital role in cell growth and in the metabolism of bone and other tissues. Vitamin K and Blood Clot Formation. Blood clots through a process called the 'coagulation cascade'. It's referred to as a cascade as it involves a cascade of enzymes activating each other. Fibrin is formed at the end of the cascade.
These anticoagulants block vitamin K function, resulting in decreased formation of clots. It is primarily vitamin K1 that is used when it comes to blood clotting. Vitamin K and Healthy Bones. Vitamin K2 plays an important role in bone formation. It is also involved in the prevention of bone loss. Vitamin K and Blood Clot Formation. Blood clots through a process called the 'coagulation cascade'. It's referred to as a cascade as it involves a cascade of enzymes activating each other. Fibrin is formed at the end of the cascade.