O LIVEM ® 1000 INCI: Cetearyl Olivate, Sorbitan Olivate Olivem 1000 - Product Literature November 2002 - 1 According to the strong market request, B&T is now launching a new vegetable PEG-FREE emulsifier, selected and produced with its own know-how: OLIVEM 1000, a new O/W emulsifier derived from olive oil. O LIVEM ® 1000 INCI: Cetearyl Olivate, Sorbitan Olivate Olivem 1000 - Product Literature November 2002 - 4 EMULSIFYING ABILITY Olivem 1000 has been tested in a percentage range from 2 to 8 % with a lipid phase from 5% to 25% at different polarity value.
Cetearyl Olivate/Sorbitan Olivate is obtained from the original olive oil by esterification of the fatty acid groups and then combined with sorbitol and cetearyl alcohol. It is a non-ionic and mild emulsifier. Sorbitol is the alcohol form of sucrose. Cetearyl Olivate and Sorbitan Olivate is therefore made from natural raw materials, free of soap and ethoxylated ingredients. Thus it facilitates the retention of skin moisture and increases the active ingredient's resistance to water and/or sweat.
The Sorbitan esters are the fatty-acid esters of hexitol anhydrides derived from sorbitol. Esterification with a fatty acid derivatives normally yields the ester at the terminal (primary) alcohol group (e.g., Sorbitan Oleate). Sorbitan esters are water insoluble. Link to the EU Cosmetic Regulation: http://europa.eu/legislation_summaries/consumers/product_labelling_and_p... The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives has established an Acceptable Daily Intake of 0-25 mg/kg body weight for the sum of Sorbitan esters of lauric, oleic, palmitic, and stearic acid.
About SORBITAN OLEATE: Sorbitan Oleate is a monoester of oleic acid and hexitol anhydrides derived from sorbitol. 
Sorbitan is a mixture of isomeric organic compounds derived from the dehydration of sorbitol. The mixture can vary, but usually consists of 1,4-anhydrosorbitol, 1,5-anhydrosorbitol and 1,4,3,6-dianhydrosorbitol. Sorbitan is primarily used in the production of surfactants such as polysorbates. Sorbitan is an intermediate in the conversion of sorbitol to isosorbide. Sorbitan esters (also known as Spans) are nonionic surfactants that are used as emulsifying agents in the preparation of emulsions, creams, and ointments for pharmaceutical and cosmetic use.
Risk assessment method deficiencies and data gaps-Maximum reported as used concentration is basis of safety assessment by industry safety panel (Cosmetic Ingredient Review, CIR) - implicit safe concentration limit in product. EWG provides information on personal care product ingredients from the published scientific literature, to supplement incomplete data available from companies and the government.
Abstract. The Sorbitan esters, including Sorbitan Stearate, Sorbitan Laurate, Sorbitan Sesquioleate, Sorbitan Oleate, Sorbitan Tristearate, Sorbitan Palmitate, and Sorbitan Trioleate, are used in cosmetic products as emulsifiers and stabilizers at concentrations normally under 5 percent. 
The sorbitan esters are produced by reacting the polyol, sorbitol, with a fatty acids (stearic acid, lauric acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid). Both sobitol and the fatty acids are naturally occurring and are used in cosmetic products. Link to the EU Cosmetic Regulation: http://europa.eu/legislation_summaries/consumers/product_labelling_and_p... The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives has established an Acceptable Daily Intake of 0-25 mg/kg body weight for the sum of Sorbitan esters of lauric, oleic, palmitic, and stearic acid.
About SORBITAN PALMITATE: Sorbitan Palmitate is a monoester of palmitic acid and hexitol anhydrides derived fromsorbitol. EWG provides information on personal care product ingredients from the published scientific literature, to supplement incomplete data available from companies and the government.