This condition is a type of pleural effusion, meaning that it is a medical condition characterized by a buildup of fluid (effusion) in the pleural space, the cavity which surrounds the lungs. The pleural space normally has some fluid present to lubricate the lungs and facilitate breathing. Chylothorax is a type of pleural effusion, meaning that fluid is building up in the cavity that surrounds the lungs. Cylothorax involves a fluid known as chyle accumulating in the cavity that surrounds the lungs. A chest X-ray is often used to help confirm a diagnosis of chylothorax
Computed tomography (CT scan or CAT scan) is a noninvasive diagnostic imaging procedure that uses a combination of X-rays and computer technology to produce horizontal, or axial, images (often called slices) of the body. A CT scan of the chest may also be used to evaluate the effects of treatment of thoracic tumors. Another use of chest CT is to provide guidance for biopsies and/or aspiration of tissue from the chest.
Pneumothorax in Cats. Pneumothorax is the medical term for an accumulation of air in the area between the cat's chest wall and lungs (the pleural space). It may be categorized as traumatic or spontaneous, and closed or open. Both dogs and cats are susceptible to pneumothorax. 
A CT scan of the chest may be performed to assess the chest and its organs for tumors and other lesions, injuries, intrathoracic bleeding, infections, unexplained chest pain, obstructions, or other conditions, particularly when another type of examination, such as X-rays or physical examination, is not conclusive. A CT scan of the chest may also be used to evaluate the effects of treatment of thoracic tumors. Another use of chest CT is to provide guidance for biopsies and/or aspiration of tissue from the chest.
Chylothorax is a medical condition in which a fluid known as chyle accumulates in the cavity which surrounds the lungs, making it difficult for the lungs to inflate. Chylothorax is a type of pleural effusion, meaning that fluid is building up in the cavity that surrounds the lungs. Cylothorax involves a fluid known as chyle accumulating in the cavity that surrounds the lungs. A chest X-ray is often used to help confirm a diagnosis of chylothorax
Cats, Heart, Blood, Cancer, Lungs, Chylothorax. Posted October 23, 2011 in Cat Diseases & Conditions A-Z. Overview. Chylothorax is a condition caused by a buildup of lymph fluid in the chest cavity. Lymph is a bodily fluid that carries protein and cells to tissues through small vessels known as lymphatics. The exact cause of this disease is not known. It is seen more often in cats with heart disease, blood clots, or cancer, but often no obvious cause is identified. Symptoms. If your pet is suffering from this condition, you might observe the following: 1  Difficulty breathing. 2  Open-mouth
A chylothorax (or chyle leak) is a type of pleural effusion. It results from lymph formed in the digestive system called chyle accumulating in the pleural cavity due to either disruption or obstruction of the thoracic duct. In people on a normal diet, this effusion can be identified by its turbid, milky white appearance, since chyle contains high levels of triglycercides. It results from leakage of lymph fluid from the thoracic duct (or one of its tributaries). This can result from direct laceration (e.g., from surgery) or from nontraumatic causes. The most common nontraumatic cause is malignancy, especially lymphoma.
A bacterial infection that settles in the cat's chest cavity can enter from the lungs or esophagus. Cats generally get these types of infections from bite wounds, but they can also get them from inhaling foreign bodies, or from the spread of a lung infection, such as pneumonia, into the chest cavity. The condition described in this medical article can affect both dogs and cats. Pyothorax in Cats. Pyothorax occurs when pus, the body's natural immune response to an invasion of bacteria, accumulates in the chest (pleural) cavity. Made up of white blood cells (neutrophils) and dead cells, pus gathers at the site of an infection.
Causes [edit]. The condition is rare but serious, and appears in all mammals. It results from leakage of lymph fluid from the thoracic duct (or one of its tributaries). This can result from direct laceration (e.g., from surgery) or from nontraumatic causes. The most common nontraumatic cause is malignancy, especially lymphoma.