The cost... The cost for a Neuter certificate is $75 and a Spay certificate is $95. As anyone who has researched spay/neuter surgeries for rabbits knows, a neuter may cost $200+ and a spay can be $400+. We are grateful to our participating veterinarians who are making these lower fees possible. NJHRS is pleased to offer this lower-cost spay/neuter program for rabbits—the only one of it’s kind in New Jersey. If you are reading this, you are a responsible rabbit parent who know the benefits of spaying and neutering rabbits, even if you have only one rabbit and pregnancy is not an issue.
1 For those that live in a higher, populated metro area, the rabbit neutering cost can be anywhere from $175 to $475 due to the higher rent costs and cost of living. Out of every 1,000 rabbits that are neutered, approximately .1% have a mortality rate, and this is widely due to the anesthesia. The pricing for neutering is going to vary on a few different factors. 1  The low end for the surgery itself is going to cost anywhere from $100 to as much as $275.
A rabbit that is spayed has is virtually prone to cancers such as ovarian, uterine and others such as mammarian. According to Rabbits.org, a spayed rabbit is calmer, it’s going to love you more and it tends to be more dependable. The cost of spaying your rabbit is going to greatly vary on a few different factors. 1  In your less populated area where the cost of living is relatively low, the prices can range anywhere from $85 to $200. 2  On average, most of your typical clinics are going to charge anywhere from $150 to $300. 1 Medications after the procedure is done will be necessary. 2  Medications for a rabbit will start around $20 – $80+ A shot such as a metacam shot may be required before the procedure begins. 3  A shot such as this can cost upwards of $10 to $30 depending on the vet.
What does the surgery cost? Spay/neuter costs vary tremendously in different areas of the country. The low end of the range can be as inexpensive as $50-75 (often in spay/neuter clinics), while vets in major metropolitan areas, where rents and labor costs are very high, often charge several hundred dollars. See our veterinary listings. 1 The risk of reproductive cancers (ovarian, uterine, mammarian) for an unspayed female rabbit stands at is virtually eliminated by spaying your female rabbit. 2  Your neutered male rabbit will live longer as well, given that he won’t be tempted to fight with other animals (rabbits, cats, etc.) due to his sexual aggression.
A neutering procedure today for a rabbit is relatively safe. Out of every 1,000 rabbits that are neutered, approximately .1% have a mortality rate, and this is widely due to the anesthesia. The pricing for neutering is going to vary on a few different factors. 1  The low end for the surgery itself is going to cost anywhere from $100 to as much as $275.
In my neck of the woods it will cost you $140 - $230 at a vet. This is typical. However if you have a clinic or shelter that does low-cost spay/neuter for rabbits then you may pay as little as $50. This is rare but worth the research to find one. I'd suggesting making sure your male is actually a male and your female is a female.
1 The low end for the surgery itself is going to cost anywhere from $100 to as much as $275. 2  For those that live in a higher, populated metro area, the rabbit neutering cost can be anywhere from $175 to $475 due to the higher rent costs and cost of living. 3  In Montana for example, the prices will vary $80 to $125. Out of every 1,000 rabbits that are neutered, approximately .1% have a mortality rate, and this is widely due to the anesthesia. The pricing for neutering is going to vary on a few different factors. 1 
Six months for female rabbits, while five months for male rabbits. While the rabbits have not been neutered yet, it is always advisable to keep them separated. The Average Cost Of Neutering a Rabbit. Neutering a female rabbit is more expensive and the expenses usually depend on your veterinarian. The low end for the procedure alone costs somewhere between $150 to as high as $300. But for those living in a superior, populated metro area, the procedure can cost about $200 to $500 because of the higher cost of living. 
Bunnies United for Neuter and Spay. If you cannot afford the cost of spaying and neutering your rabbit, Gainesville Rabbit Rescue (GRR) may be able to help. Through its BUNS voucher program you can purchase a low cost spay/neuter voucher from GRR and present it to a participating veterinary clinic. 