Since there is no adjustment for the cost of construction financing, the order of magnitude estimate for the new project is $209.5 million. 1  In the total construction cost for the Gary, Indiana, plant, there was an item of $5 million for site preparation which is not typical for other plants. 1 Using the cost data in Figure 5-5 (Example 5-11), find the total cost including overhead and profit of excavating 90,000 cu.yd. of bulk material using a backhoe of 1.5 cu.yd. 2  capacity for a detailed estimate.
1 Construction cost-the total cost to construct a project. 2  This value usually does not include the preplanning, site or right of way acquisition, or design costs, and may not include start-up and commissioning costs. 3  This total or subtotal is usually identified as such in an estimate report. 1 Allocation of costs is the transfer of costs from one cost item to one or more other cost items. 2  Allowance-a value in an estimate to cover the cost of known but not yet fully defined work. 3  As-sold estimate-the estimate which matches the agreed items and price for the project scope.
The shape of the outside perimeter is an important consideration in estimating the total construction cost. Generally, the more complex the shape, the more expensive the structure per square foot of floor area. 
A cost estimate is the approximation of the cost of a program, project, or operation. The cost estimate is the product of the cost estimating process. The cost estimate has a single total value and may have identifiable component values. A problem with a cost overrun can be avoided with a credible, reliable, and accurate cost estimate. Estimates for the cost of facility construction are a major part of the cost estimate domain. A construction general contractor or subcontractor must normally prepare definitive cost estimates to prepare bids in the construction bidding process to compete for award of the contract.
For example, homes built with the majority of the features listed under the highest class of construction in 2012 used $110 as the multiplying factor. Mid-grade construction used the average square-foot cost of $95. Houses with standard features used $79 as a multiplier. Multiply the cost by the number of square feet from your blueprint calculations to estimate your building costs. 
Cost Estimating Manual for WSDOT Projects November 2008 Page iii Foreword Each project is unique. To accurately develop an estimate of the construction costs for a project, an Estimator must be capable of mentally constructing the project and then accounting for all the activities necessary to complete it. Cost Estimating Manual for WSDOT Projects Page 33 November 2008 http://www.wsdot.wa.gov/publications/fulltext/cevp/1053policy.pdf. Internal Project Team This type of review is the first level of estimate review and in recommended for all estimates.
Construction cost estimators estimate the cost of construction work. They may, for example, estimate the total cost of building a bridge or commercial shopping center. They may identify direct costs, such as the cost of raw materials and the cost of labor, and set a timeline for how long the project will take. What Cost Estimators Do. Cost estimators collect and analyze data in order to estimate the time, money, materials, and labor required to manufacture a product, construct a building, or provide a service.
Mobilization – Calculated as a percentage of the total of the construction cost estimate, mobilization is included in a project estimate to cover a contractor’s preconstruction expenses and the cost of preparatory work and operations (such as moving equipment on site and staging). Cost Estimating Manual for WSDOT Projects Page 33 November 2008 http://www.wsdot.wa.gov/publications/fulltext/cevp/1053policy.pdf. Internal Project Team This type of review is the first level of estimate review and in recommended for all estimates.