Costochondritis is a common form of inflammation of the cartilage where ribs attach to the breastbone, the sternum. The inflammation can involve multiple cartilage areas on both sides of the sternum but usually is on one side only. Examples of illnesses that can feature costochondritis include fibromyalgia, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, reactive arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and inflammatory bowel disease (such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease).
Introduction. Costochondritis is the medical term for inflammation of the cartilage that joins your ribs to your breastbone (sternum). Cartilage is tough but flexible connective tissue found throughout the body, including in the joints between bones. It acts as a shock absorber, cushioning the joints
Costochondritis, an inflammation of costochondral junctions of ribs or chondrosternal joints of the anterior chest wall, is a common condition seen in patients presenting to the physician's office and emergency department. Palpation of the affected chondrosternal joints of the chest wall elicits tenderness. Costochondritis is a common condition seen in patients presenting to the physician's office and emergency department. 1 - 4 It is also known as costosternal syndrome, parasternal chondrodynia, or anterior chest wall syndrome.
Costochondritis (kos-toe-kon-DRY-tis) is an inflammation of the cartilage that connects a rib to the breastbone (sternum). Pain caused by costochondritis might mimic that of a heart attack or other heart conditions. Costochondritis is sometimes known as chest wall pain, costosternal syndrome or costosternal chondrodynia. Sometimes, swelling accompanies the pain (Tietze syndrome). Costochondritis usually has no apparent cause.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Costochondritis, also known as chest wall pain, costosternal syndrome, or costosternal chondrodynia is an acute and often temporary inflammation of the costal cartilage, the structure which connects each rib to the sternum at the costosternal joint. The condition is a common cause of chest pain. Though costochondritis often resolves on its own, it can be a recurring condition that can appear to have little or no signs of onset. Costochondritis symptoms can be similar to the chest pain associated with a heart attack.
Costochondritis is a painful condition of the chest wall. It is caused by inflammation in the joints between the cartilages that join the ribs to the breastbone (sternum). Although painful, it is not a serious condition. Usually it has no obvious cause and settles over time. 
Costochondritis is inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone (sternum). Costochondritis causes localized chest wall pain and tenderness that can be reproduced by pushing on the involved cartilage in the front of the rib cage. 1 Overall, costochondritis is one of the most common causes of musculoskeletal chest pain. 2  While chest pain can represent heart disease and heart attack, inflammation around the heart (pericarditis) or lungs (pleuritis), costochondritis is also considered as a possible diagnosis in adults with
Overview. Costochondritis causes chest pain that is related to inflammation of cartilage in your rib cage. More specifically, costochondritis often affects the cartilage where upper ribs attach to the sternum (breastbone). 
Costochondritis Overview. Costochondritis is an inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join with the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone, or sternum. The condition causes localized chest pain that you can reproduce by pushing on the cartilage in the front of your ribcage. Different types of infectious diseases can cause costochondritis. 1  Viral: Costochondritis commonly occurs with viral respiratory infections because of the inflammation of the area from the viral infection itself, or from straining from coughing.