Welcome to Logistic Services USA, LLC. Logistic Services is one of the California Cartage Family of Companies we specializes in providing quality third party transportation management solutions to shippers that want to achieve greater efficiencies within their supply chain. Logistic Services web based Transportation Management System (TMS) offers customers real time data with a web-based interface using customized dashboard for our customers to have visibility to their supply chain shipping.
Logistics Services. As the largest woman-owned and privately held third party logistics company, Kenco offers a host of logistic management services and supply chain solutions.
Save. Logistics is a term that is frequently used to describe shipping and delivery service. The word “logistics” actually originated in the military, being used to define troop and equipment movements within and across theaters of operation. The Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals defines third-party logistics services as including transporting, warehousing, packing, freight-forwarding, cross-docking, and inventory functions.
A third-party logistics provider (abbreviated 3PL, or sometimes TPL) is a firm that provides service to its customers of outsourced (or Third Party) logistics services for part, or all of their supply chain management functions. So the if there are customized logistics services are needed the contracts in the 3PL segment have to be long term, because customizing always costs money. A cost effectiveness for the third party logistics provider is only given over longer periods of time with a stable contract and stable profits.
BREAKING DOWN 'Contract Logistics'. Logistics management is an important component of many companies' profitability and overall success. While some companies manage their own logistics, others find it more efficient to hire specialized contract logistics companies to manage their logistics for them. 
Logistics means having the right thing, at the right place, at the right time.. Logistics - (business definition) Logistics is defined as a business planning framework for the management of material, service, information and capital flows. It includes the increasingly complex information, communication and control systems required in today's business environment. Logistics-The science of planning, organizing and managing activities that provide goods or services. -- (MDC, LogLink / LogisticsWorld, 1997). Logistics-Logistics is the science of planning and implementing the acquisition and use of the resources necessary to sustain the operation of a system.
Logistics outsourcing involves a relationship between a company and an LSP (logistic service provider), which, compared with basic logistics services, has more customized offerings, encompasses a broad number of service activities, is characterized by a long-term orientation, and thus has a strategic nature. Emergency logistics is a term used by the logistics, supply chain, and manufacturing industries to denote specific time-critical modes of transport used to move goods or objects rapidly in the event of an emergency.
Logistics management is that part of the supply chain that plans, implements, and controls the efficient, effective forward and reverse flow and storage of goods, services, and related information between the point of origin and the point of consumption in order to meet customer requirements. Emergency logistics is a term used by the logistics, supply chain, and manufacturing industries to denote specific time-critical modes of transport used to move goods or objects rapidly in the event of an emergency.
Logistics is the management of the flow of things between the point of origin and the point of consumption in order to meet requirements of customers or corporations. Emergency logistics is a term used by the logistics, supply chain, and manufacturing industries to denote specific time-critical modes of transport used to move goods or objects rapidly in the event of an emergency.
Founded in 1991, PLS Logistics Services has become one of the country’s leading logistics management services providers. Based in Cranberry Township, PA, a suburb of Pittsburgh, PLS provides dependable outsourced logistics solutions as well as freight brokerage services. 