Dave King / Gety Images. Chiffonade (pronounced shif-oh-NOD) is a knife technique used for cutting herbs and leaf vegetables such as lettuce into thin strips or ribbons.
Definition of CHIFFONADE. : shredded or finely cut vegetables or herbs used especially as a garnish. ADVERTISEMENT.
How to cut herbs into fine shreds for a beautiful garnish. 
This technique is unsuited to small, narrow, or irregularly-shaped herb leaves such as coriander, parsley, thyme, or rosemary due to there being less surface area for the knife to do a practical job. Chiffonade means little ribbons in French, referring to the little ribbons you create while cutting. Chiffonade (. [ʃi.fɔ.nad]) is a chopping technique in which herbs or leafy green vegetables (such as spinach and basil) are cut into long, thin strips.
French chiffonnade, akin to chiffon: see chiffon. lettuce, other vegetables, or various herbs cut into shreds or very thin strips, used esp. as a garnish. Origin of chiffonade. 
How to Chiffonade. In French this means made of rags, so sl icing a food into very thin strips is known as a chiffonade. Lining up the leaves of spinach and sl icing across yield ing long thin strips is a chiffonade. ~ - A method of finely sl icing herbs by rolling the leaves into tight cylinders before chopping.
Photo Credit: Photo © Molly Watson. A chiffonade of mint adds a note freshness and lovely color to dishes. It's easy to do and is undeniably her – a great way to dress up simple dishes. Here we have fresh mint leaves, but the technique is the same for basil, spinach, and other herbs and green leaves. Rinse and thoroughly dry the leaves before cutting
By Danilo Alfaro. Definition: Chiffonade is a knife technique used for cutting herbs and leaf vegetables such as lettuce into thin strips or ribbon s. Chiffonade is a cooking technique in which herbs or leafy green vegetables (such as spinach and basil) are cut in to long, thin strips. This is generally accomplished by stacking leaves, rolling them tightly, then cutting across the rolled leaves with a sharp knife, producing fine ribbon s. In French this means made of rags, so sl icing a food into very thin strips is known as a chiffonade. Lining up the leaves of spinach and sl icing across yield ing long thin strips is a chiffonade. ~ - A method of finely sl icing herbs by rolling the leaves into tight cylinders before chopping.