Copyright© 2008 2. Domain Transfers Transferring Domains From Register.comThe updated contact information displays.Note that it may take up to 24 hours for the changes to take effect. Authorization Code To transfer a .com, .net, .biz, .info, .name, .org, or .us domain name you will need an authorization code. To transfer a domain from Register.com to this registrar you will need the following information: ✔ Domain status – Locked or Active ✔ Administrative contact for registered domain ✔ Authorization or EPP code (.com, .net, .org, .biz, .us, .name, and .info TLDs only).
- Top. From the time you change the DNS on your domain name to point to our name servers it will take approximately 12-24 hours for the change to propagate throughout the Internet and become active. During this time your website may be down until the change has fully propagated through the Internet. - Top. Once your domain name has been registered (or transferred, if applicable), it usually takes about 12-24 hours to be active. All Internet providers must update their records (DNS tables) to reflect the new site's location.
Comments: 14. When a domain is newly registered, the nameservers are changed, or DNS changes are made, you can expect a propagation time up to 24 hours. This is because it takes time for the DNS to take effect across the internet. The actual time of propagation may vary in some locations based on your network setup. When a domain is newly registered, the nameservers are changed, or DNS changes are made, you can expect a propagation time up to 24 hours. This is because it takes time for the DNS to take effect across the internet
1 Unlock your domain name. 2  See Unlock domains for more information. 3  Check with your new registrar to see if you need an authorization code. (Some domain name extensions do not require this code.) If you need an authorization code, see Get an authorization code for transfers. 1 Initiate the domain name transfer at your new registrar. 2  You might need to consult the other registrar's Help or support for specific instructions. 3  Authorize the transfer in your account with the
Hits: 5,087. I have asked for a domain transfer, domain name is eastwestwedding.com, the status is Awaiting Registrar. It's been 4-5 days now, how long it will take and what I can do to expedite the transfer. You must login before you can ask a follow up question. You must login before you can submit an answer. 
Article Rating: 2 / 5 Votes: 57. Transferring a domain name registration from another registrar to Network Solutions typically takes 5 days from the time the losing Account Holder’s Administrative Contact (as listed in the current registrar’s WHOIS record), authorizes the transfer. 