Waived tests include test systems cleared by the FDA for home use and those tests approved for waiver under the CLIA criteria. Although CLIA requires that waived tests must be simple and have a low risk for erroneous results, this does not mean that waived tests are completely error-proof. The recommendations in this report are intended to be a resource for physicians, nurses and others who perform waived tests in sites holding a CLIA Certificate of Waiver. The recommendations were published to promote quality testing, reduce testing errors, and enhance patient safety.
TESTS GRANTED WAIVED STATUS UNDER CLIA This list includes updates from Change Request FFS9164 * Newly added waived test system 3 CPT CODE(S) TEST NAME MANUFACTURER USE 80061QW, 82465QW (Contact your Medicare carrier for claims instructions.), 83718QW, TESTS GRANTED WAIVED STATUS UNDER CLIA This list includes updates from Change Request FFS9164 * Newly added waived test system 4 CPT CODE(S) TEST NAME MANUFACTURER USE 80061QW, 82465QW (Contact your Medicare carrier for claims instructions.), 83718QW, 84478QW. 1.
Provides results in 10 minutes or less. The OSOM® Trichomonas Rapid Test, from Genzyme Diagnostics, San Diego, is a CLIA-waived rapid test for the detection of Trichomonas vaginalis. Included in the CDC and ACOG guidelines, it is the only CLIA-waived rapid test for the diagnosis of Trichomonas vaginalis. 
Details. Category: Laboratory Management. Last Updated on Friday, 09 September 2011 15:22. A list of tests granted waived status under CLIA sorted by CPT codes, test name, manufacturer, and use. http://www.cms.gov/CLIA/downloads/waivetbl.pdf. American Society For Microbiology © 2015 | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use. 
(FDA) has categorized. 's Xpert ® CT/NG test as 'Moderate Complexity' under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA). Xpert CT/NG is a qualitative in vitro molecular diagnostic test for the detection and differentiation of Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) and Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG). The test runs on. 
Chlamydia Test. $260.75 (20 Tests) Clearview Chlamydia is a rapid, easy-to-use test for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis from female endocervical swab specimens. 15 minute results, FDA 510K & CLIA Classified Moderately Complex. CLEARVIEW CHLAMYDIA TEST. $260.75 (20 Tests) Clearview Chlamydia is a rapid, easy-to-use test for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis from female endocervical swab specimens.
Clearview Chlamydia is a rapid, easy-to-use test for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis from female endocervical swab specimens. Clearview Chlamydia uses a patented, innovative technology to provide highly sensitive and specific results. Clearview Chlamydia is a rapid, easy-to-use test for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis from female endocervical swab specimens. Clearly different.
(20 Tests). Clearview Chlamydia Test Kits, is a rapid, easy to use test for the diagnosis of Chlamydia trachomatis from female endocervical swab specimens. Each kit contains sufficient reagents and materials to perform 20 determinations. Overnight shipping and handling fee included in price (refrigerated item). 