In 1974, after Richard Nixon resigned, Ford became president and selected Nelson Rockefeller as vice president. After a long congressional inquiry, Rockefeller was approved, making them the country's first nonelected president and
Mr. Ford said that he, in turn, had told the President that the concluding Senate speech in his behalf had been made by Hubert H. Humphrey, Democrat of Minnesota, who was Vice President under President Johnson. I told the President that one can't get more bipartisan support than that, Mr. Ford added.
Washington, Nov 27--The Senate approved today, 92 to 3, the nomination of Gerald Rudolph Ford of Michigan as the 40th Vice President of the United States. The nomination is expected to win approval by the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday and gain final confirmation by the House on Dec. 6.
Advertisement. The 25th Amendment, ratified in 1967, solved the problem of how to replace a vice president. If Cheney resigned, President Bush would select a nominee for the vice presidency. Then the nominee would have to be approved by majority votes in both the House and the Senate.
The Vice President is the only authorized nominating authority who can nominate U.S. citizens without geographical restrictions. He may have a maximum number of five nominees in attendance at each authorized academy at any one time.
The thought that the Senate might be voting on not just a Vice President but also the next President of the United States was expressed by most of the few Senators who spoke. We are, after all, selecting a potential President, Senator Nelson said in opposing the Ford nomination.
The well-publicized nomination of Bork to the Supreme Court by President Reagan in 1987 saw Bork get just 42 votes in the Senate, when the Republicans had just 45 seats. Not surprisingly, in every instance since 1945 when the same party controlled the White House and the Senate, that nominee was approved.
Gerald Ford was the first vice-president who was not elected to the position. He later became the president when President Nixon resigned his office, so I suppose you could … say he was appointed President. (Nelson Rockefeller was the only other appointed vice-president.