Thanks to its durable nature and sturdy “crunch,” romaine lettuce adds not only nutrients to your salads, sandwiches, or other recipes, but also variety in terms of texture and flavor. It’s one of the best loved lettuces for having a mild, non-bitter taste that deters some people from consuming leafy greens regularly. Your body does not make powerful vitamin C on its own naturally and relies on foods high in vitamin C. The body also does not store vitamin C, so it is important that you get this essential vitamin frequently from whole food sources including leafy greens like romaine lettuce.
The rich supply of vitamin A and vitamin C found in romaine lettuce helps to protect against eye disorders. Deficiencies in these antioxidants can lead to a thickening of the cornea, glaucoma, cataracts, macular degeneration, and possibly even blindness as one ages. Your body does not make powerful vitamin C on its own naturally and relies on foods high in vitamin C. The body also does not store vitamin C, so it is important that you get this essential vitamin frequently from whole food sources including leafy greens like romaine lettuce.
Lettuce nutrition facts. Lettuce is one of poular green leafy-vegetables. Its crispy, green/crimson-red leaves are one of the incredible sources of essential nutrients that benefit health. Indeed, it is among the most sought-after greens, be it in your crunchy green salads or healthy sandwiches! 
Vitamin A. Green leaf lettuce contains vitamin A in the form of three carotenoids: beta-carotene, lutein and zeaxanthin. Beta-carotene is converted into the type of vitamin A that’s needed for normal vision and to support the immune system
Macronutrients. The four most common types of green lettuce -- green leaf, romaine, butterhead and iceberg -- have 13 to 17 calories in 100 grams, which is about a 1/2-cup serving of shredded lettuce. They deliver 1 gram of protein, or about 2 percent of the recommended daily intake. You’ll get 1 gram of iron from 100 grams of green leaf, romaine and butterhead lettuce. Since men and women have different iron needs, that’s 12 percent of the recommended daily intake for men and 5 percent for women. Iceberg only has half the amount of iron.
Start with romaine lettuce for a salad guaranteed to be packed with nutrients. The vitamins, minerals, phytonutrients and fiber found in romaine lettuce are especially good for the prevention or alleviation of many common health complaints. A link that takes you to the In-Depth Nutritional Profile for Romaine lettuce, featuring information over 80 nutrients, can be found under the Food Rating System Chart. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Romaine lettuce is also available.
In addition, romaine lettuce is a very good source of dietary fiber, manganese, potassium, biotin, vitamin B1, copper, iron, and vitamin C. It is also a good source of vitamin B2, omega-3 fatty acids, vitamin B6, phosphorus, chromium, magnesium, calcium, and pantothenic acid. A link that takes you to the In-Depth Nutritional Profile for Romaine lettuce, featuring information over 80 nutrients, can be found under the Food Rating System Chart. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Romaine lettuce is also available.
Lettuce is most often used for salads, although it is also seen in other kinds of food, such as soups, sandwiches and wraps; it can also be grilled. One variety, the Woju (莴苣) or asparagus lettuce, is grown for its stems, which are eaten either raw or cooked. Lettuce is a rich source of vitamin K and vitamin A, and is a moderate source of folate and iron. Contaminated lettuce is often a source of bacterial, viral and parasitic outbreaks in humans, including E. coli and Salmonella. Lettuce was first cultivated by the ancient Egyptians who turned it from a weed, whose seeds were used to produce oil, into a food plant grown for its succulent leaves, in addition to its oil-rich seeds.
Green leaf lettuce is a rich source of vitamin A. The greener the leaf, the more nutrients it provides, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Green leaf lettuce makes a nutrient-dense choice, and for those young eaters who may be a little picky, it also has a milder taste than other greens. Green leaf lettuce contains vitamin A in the form of three carotenoids: beta-carotene, lutein and zeaxanthin. Beta-carotene is converted into the type of vitamin A that’s needed for normal vision and to support the immune system