Expert answer. Thank you for your question. A urinary tract infection, or UTI, means that bacteria have entered the urinary system and spread somewhere from the urethra to the bladder or even up to the kidneys. Symptoms usually include pain with urination and the need to urinate more frequently. There may also be blood in the urine, lower abdominal pain or fev
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it. 1 This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 2  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis. 1 This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 2  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
Your urinary tract is the system that makes urine and carries it out of your body. It includes your bladder and kidneys and the tubes that connect them. When germs get into this system, they can cause an infection. Most urinary tract infections are bladder infections. A bladder infection usually is not serious if it is treated right away. If you do not take care of a bladder infection, it can spread to your kidneys. A kidney infection is serious and can cause permanent damage
Bacterial UTI Causes. In most cases, the causes of a UTI involve a type of bacteria, Escherichia coli (E. coli), which normally lives in the colon. In many cases, bacteria first travel to the urethra. When bacteria multiply, a UTI can occur. A UTI that is limited to the urethra is called urethritis. 
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 2  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection of any part of the urinary system. 2 Most infections involve the lower urinary tract. The urinary tract is comprised of the bladder, kidneys, ureters and urethra. Urinary tract infections are the second most common type of infection in the body and account for around 8.1 million visits to health care providers each year. 
A urinary tract infection (UTI) can occur in any part of the urinary tract. Bacteria cause the vast majority of UTIs. Fungi or viruses can also cause UTIs. UTIs are the second most common type of infection in humans. Lower UTIs are infections of the urethra and bladder. Their symptoms include: 1  burning with urination. 2  increased frequency of urination with scant amounts of urine being passed. 3  bloody urine. 4  cloudy urine. 5  urine that looks like cola or tea.