It wasn't the increase in 2014-15 profit that is exciting investors today but details on Primary Health Care Limited's (ASX:PRY) strategic review. Tim McArthur | October 9, 2015. Boost your income with high-yielding stocks such as IOOF Holdings Limited (ASX:IFL), Suncorp Group Ltd (ASX:SUN), Platinum Asset Management Limited (ASX:PTM), Telstra Corporation Ltd... More »
The Interactive Chart requires Javascript to be enabled on your browser. You can use the Basic Chart, or follow the directions below to enable Javascript and use the Interactive Chart. To enable Javascript in Internet Explorer 5.5 or higher... 1  1. Click Tools, then click Internet Options. 2  2. 3  Click the Security tab. 4  3. Click the Custom Level button. 5  4. Scroll to the Scripting section. 6  5
Primary Health Care’s overall half-yearly earnings numbers were up on the prior corresponding period with net profit after tax and earnings per share both up by more than 8%, and its interim dividend up a hefty 38%. Top Motley Fool analysts just identified their #1 ASX pick for 2014, a small-cap stock that could be poised for big gains (and offers a fat, fully franked dividend!). Discover all the details now, including the name and code, in this FREE investment report, The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014..
Primary Health Care is currently trading on a price-to-earnings ratio (PE ratio) of 14.73 times, with its share price having come down 9.5% in the last six months. The question here is whether this represents good value or could be a dreaded falling knife scenario. Top Motley Fool analysts just identified their #1 ASX pick for 2014, a small-cap stock that could be poised for big gains (and offers a fat, fully franked dividend!). Discover all the details now, including the name and code, in this FREE investment report, The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014..
Tweet. Primary Health Care (ASX: PRY) released its 2014 first-half results last Wednesday, and whilst the headline figures were all up (including earnings per share and its interim dividend), the share price has fallen 5.6% to $4.65 per share. Top Motley Fool analysts just identified their #1 ASX pick for 2014, a small-cap stock that could be poised for big gains (and offers a fat, fully franked dividend!). Discover all the details now, including the name and code, in this FREE investment report, The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014..
Dividend History for Primary Health Care Limited (ASX:PRY). No dividend announcements for this company have been tracked by MarketBeat.com. Insider Trading History for Primary Health Care Limited (ASX:PRY). 
Profile. Primary Health Care Limited provides services to the healthcare industry in Australia. Services are provided to general practitioners, specialists and other health care providers who conduct their own practices and businesses at its medical centers, licensed day surgeries, eye clinics, and specialist clinics. The Company also provides pathology services and healthcare software. 30-38 Short Street.