From the examples of Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln, one learns that emergency conditions and ________ can offer presidents opportunities for substantial increases in power. a popular and strong-willed personality. 
His 12 vetoes in 2 terms did set a precedent, in that, unlike previous presidents, he vetoed all bills which he thought were bad for the country. Previous presidents tacltly … asserted that Congress had the right to pass any law they wished to pass, so long as they did not violate the constitution. Jackson vetoed a total of 12 bills in his two terms in office (5 regular or return vetoes, and 7 pocket vetoes); all of his predecessors combined vetoed 10 bills.
His 12 vetoes in 2 terms did set a precedent, in that, unlike previous presidents, he vetoed all bills which he thought were bad for the country. Previous presidents tacltly … asserted that Congress had the right to pass any law they wished to pass, so long as they did not violate the constitution. 
Andrew Jackson was the seventh President of the United States from 1829 to 1837, seeking to act as the direct representative of the common man. More nearly than any of his predecessors, Andrew Jackson was elected by popular vote; as President he sought to act as the direct representative of the common man. Jackson prospered sufficiently to buy slaves and to build a mansion, the Hermitage, near Nashville. He was the first man elected from Tennessee to the House of Representatives, and he served briefly in the Senate.
Other Presidents facing a hostile Congress used the veto extensively, with some disastrous results. John Tyler used the veto after he was expelled from his own party while in office. Tyler issued 10 vetoes in four years, with just one overridden by Congress. President Andrew Johnson was on the outs with the Republicans after President Lincoln’s assassination in 1865, and his vetoing ways led to an impeachment trial. Johnson used the regular veto 21 times in four years, but 15 of his vetoes were overridden. Jackson’s veto set a precedent because it was on political as well as constitutional grounds. But the Founders had actually anticipated that the veto would be used for both purposes. Alexander Hamilton wrote in Federalist 73 that he feared the President wouldn’t use the veto enough.
From the examples of Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln, one learns that emergency conditions and ________ can offer presidents the opportunity for substantial increases in power. 
330. From the examples of Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln, one learns that emergency conditions and ________ can offer presidents the opportunity for substantial increases in power. a0. a strong Congress b0. a popular and strong-willed personality c0. an uninterested public d0. Regarding terms of office, the pattern among most early presidents was to a0. serve one term and then leave office. b0. serve two terms and then leave office. c0. be defeated in seeking a second term of office. d0. serve three or more terms
Andrew Jackson's Childhood and Education: Andrew Jackson was born either in North or South Carolina on March 15, 1767. His mother raised him by herself and then died of cholera when Jackson was 14. He grew against the background of the American Revolution. He lost both brothers in the war and was raised by two uncles. Jackson ran again as the incumbent with Martin Van Buren as his running mate. His opponent was Henry Clay with John Sergeant as Vice President. The main campaign issue was the Bank of the United States, Jackson's use of the spoils system and his use of the veto. Jackson was called King Andrew I by his opposition.
Andrew Jackson. Andrew Jackson, considered the father of the modern Presidency, significantly contributed to the expansion of that office. He was considered the first popularly elected President, and, throughout his Presidency, acted his role as a populist. Elected 1828 1832. 