In genetics, gene expression is the most fundamental level at which the genotype gives rise to the phenotype, i.e. observable trait. The genetic code stored in DNA is interpreted by gene expression, and the properties of the expression give rise to the organism's phenotype. Ideally measurement of expression is done by detecting the final gene product (for many genes this is the protein) however it is often easier to detect one of the precursors, typically mRNA, and infer gene expression level.
Gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. These products are often proteins, but in non-protein coding genes such as transfer RNA (tRNA) or small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes, the product is a functional RNA. Ideally measurement of expression is done by detecting the final gene product (for many genes this is the protein) however it is often easier to detect one of the precursors, typically mRNA, and infer gene expression level.
A real-time polymerase chain reaction is a laboratory technique of molecular biology based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). It monitors the amplification of a targeted DNA molecule during the PCR, i.e. in real-time, and not at its end, as in conventional PCR. Quantifying gene expression by traditional DNA detection methods is unreliable. Detection of mRNA on a Northern blot or PCR products on a gel or Southern blot does not allow precise quantification.
To quantify gene expression, the (Cq) for an RNA or DNA from the gene of interest is subtracted from the (Cq) of RNA/DNA from a housekeeping gene in the same sample to normalize for variation in the amount and quality of RNA between different samples. Quantifying gene expression by traditional DNA detection methods is unreliable. Detection of mRNA on a Northern blot or PCR products on a gel or Southern blot does not allow precise quantification.
One of the central questions of modern biology is what controls gene expression. As we have previously described, genes must be turned on at the right time, in the right cell. To a first approximation, all the cells in an organism contains the same DNA (with the exception of germ cells and immune cells). Since these sequences are in the DNA (the molecule that is transcribed), they are called cis-regulatory sequences. The second mechanism involves an increase in the elaboration and complexity of proteins (trans-regulatory elements) that regulate gene expression in more complex organisms..
Gene expression. Gene expression is the process by which the genetic code-the nucleotide sequence-of a gene is used to direct protein synthesis and produce the structures of the cell. Genes that code for amino acid sequences are known as 'structural genes'. The process of gene expression involves two main stages: Transcription: the production of messenger RNA (mRNA) by the enzyme RNA polymerase, and the processing of the resulting mRNA molecule.
Messenger RNA. The first step in gene expression is the transcription of DNA into RNA. A molecule of single-stranded DNA complementary to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule will bind to it by Watson-Crick base pairing. If the DNA is radioactive, it will identify cells making that message. Many methods exist that enable one to detect a change in the whole organism as a result of gene expression in one part of it. For example, expression of the insulin gene in the beta cells of the islets of Langerhans can be monitored by measuring the level of insulin in the blood.
Aa Aa Aa. Humans have tens of thousands of genes, and the development of DNA microarrays by Patrick O. Brown, Joseph DeRisi, David Botstein, and colleagues in the mid-1990s made it possible to examine the expression of thousands of genes at once. 
In the case of RNA quantitation, the template is complementary DNA (cDNA), which is obtained by reverse transcription of ribonucleic acid (RNA). In this instance the technique used is quantitative RT-PCR or Q-RT-PCR. Quantitative PCR and DNA microarray are modern methodologies for studying gene expression. Quantifying gene expression by traditional DNA detection methods is unreliable. Detection of mRNA on a Northern blot or PCR products on a gel or Southern blot does not allow precise quantification.
The process of gene expression is used by all known life-eukaryotes (including multicellular organisms), prokaryotes (bacteria and archaea), and utilized by viruses-to generate the macromolecular machinery for life. Ideally measurement of expression is done by detecting the final gene product (for many genes this is the protein) however it is often easier to detect one of the precursors, typically mRNA, and infer gene expression level.