Breast density is a consideration for the somewhat younger group as well. Those women ages 50-62 with dense breasts--i.e. hard to image with mammograms--may well be doing themselves a disservice to embrace the every 3 year embrace of the mammogram plates. 
47 Followers. A. You always have to have a mammogram, every year, and it’s more important as you age, because the incidence of breast cancer increases with age, so that if a woman gets to the age of 85, she will have a 1 in 7 risk of breast cancer. So, a woman has to continue doing mammograms forever. 
What else happens to 1000 women aged 70 who continue having screening mammograms every 2 years for 10 years? 9 In summary, screening 1000 women aged 70 for the next 10 years results in:  2 less women who die from breast cancer – these deaths are prevented by screening.  15 more women diagnosed with breast cancer. A mammogram every two years to screen for breast cancer reduces the chance of dying from breast cancer among women aged 50 to 69 years. It is unclear if women aged 70 years and older get the same benefits.
©2003 Why is there a decision to make about having mammograms to screen for breast cancer? A mammogram every two years to screen for breast cancer reduces the chance of dying from breast cancer among women aged 50 to 69 years. It is unclear if women aged 70 years and older get the same benefits.
Getting screened for breast cancer is a no-brainer, and a lot of the improvements in cancer mortality have been attributed to screening. Women over the age of 40 should undergo annual screening mammography. There is no data showing at what age annual screening should stop. If a woman’s life expectancy is greater than five years, she still benefits from screening. The life expectancy of an 80-year-old woman is eight years, so she should still be screened
Breast screening does, however, have some risks you should be aware of (see below). As the likelihood of getting breast cancer increases with age, all women who are aged 50-70 and registered with a GP are automatically invited for breast cancer screening every three years. 
1 Routine screening of average-risk women should begin at age 50, instead of age 40. 2  Routine screening should end at age 74. 3  Women should get screening mammograms every two years instead of every year. 4  Breast self-exams have little value, based on findings from several large studies. Here are the USPSTF's recommendations, based on all that work: 1  Routine screening of average-risk women should begin at age 50, instead of age 40. 2  Routine screening should end at age 74. 3  Women should get screening mammograms every two years instead of every year.
Women in their 20s and 30s should have a clinical breast exam (CBE) as part of a periodic (regular) health exam by a health professional preferably every 3 years. Starting at age 40, women should have a CBE by a health professional every year. American Cancer Society recommendations for early breast cancer detection in women without breast symptoms. Women age 40 and older should have a mammogram every year and should continue to do so for as long as they are in good health. 1  Current evidence supporting mammograms is even stronger than in the past. 2  In particular, recent evidence has confirmed that mammograms offer substantial benefit for women in their 40s