The only names which Islam prohibits from assigning to a believer are names which connote or denote polytheism or disbelief (Abdul-Lat, Abdul-Uzza, (slaves of the pagan gods like Lat and Uzza, etc.) or names like Ramdas (slave of the Hindu god Ram), etc.; or names which have an inherit evil or vile meaning. As Salaam Aleikum wa Rahmatullahi wa Barakatuh. (May Allah's Peace, Mercy and Blessings be upon all of you).
The only names which Islam prohibits from assigning to a believer are names which connote or denote polytheism or disbelief (Abdul-Lat, Abdul-Uzza, (slaves of the pagan gods like Lat and Uzza, etc.) or names like Ramdas (slave of the Hindu god Ram), etc.; or names which have an inherit evil or vile meaning. As Salaam Aleikum wa Rahmatullahi wa Barakatuh. (May Allah's Peace, Mercy and Blessings be upon all of you).
Use the search tools above to find names and meanings. You can enter complete names or partial beginnings to search name variations. 
You may also create your own spelling. This is NOT a Quranic name, but Muslims can use it since it doesn't have a bad meaning. Zunairah is an Arabic name for girls that is a variant of Zinnirah, which is the name of an early accepter of Islam who was a Roman slave that was freed by Abu Bakr (RA). The name can also be derived from Arabic, being the feminine form of Zunair, which means “belt”, “strap”. The name can also be an Arabic diminutive form of the Persian girl name Zaneerah which means “intelligent”, “wise”. All of these derivations are acceptable as Muslim names.
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. Even if you are here just to browse, we hope that you will enjoy a unique spin on a fascinating study field. We offer name meanings for over 45,000 different baby names, surnames, and city names from all over the world. We are in the process of building many tools and resources to help make your studies easier.
Assalamalaikum, dear brother my wife is expecting and we came across this name on several websites zunaira which means flower found in paradise as stated and one of the websites say its a name of famous sahabia,is this true.can you provide with the deatails,and is it appropriate to keep for our newborn. As Salaam Aleikum wa Rahmatullahi wa Barakatuh. (May Allah's Peace, Mercy and Blessings be upon all of you).
Muslim Meaning: The name Zahid is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Zahid is: Hermit. Devotee. Abstemious. Ascetic. Arabic Meaning: The name Zahid is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Zahid is: Altruistic. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details. 
The meaning of this name is unknown since it is not from Arabic origins. The name can also be derived from Arabic, being the feminine form of Zunair, which means “belt”, “strap”. The name can also be an Arabic diminutive form of the Persian girl name Zaneerah which means “intelligent”, “wise”. All of these derivations are acceptable as Muslim names.
What does my surname mean?. If you have ever asked this question and wondered about the origin of your last name, you will find your surname may answer one of the questions of where your ancestors lived, or what they did for a living, or what was their personality like, or how they looked many hundreds of years ago. 1 From the first name of father used with either a suffix or prefix (which differ from country to country) to identify the person as son of. 2  Examples: 3  Prefixes. 4  O'Brian-Prefix 'O' - son of Brian. 5  McDonald-Prefix 'Mc' - son of Donald. 6  Fitzgerald-Prefix 'Fitz' - son of Gerald.