In small practices, a medical assistant’s job description usually involves a mixture of administrative medical assisting and clinical medical assisting tasks. In these practices there are generally fewer MAs working, so their job duties are more broad. The role of a clinical medical assistant is what most people imagine when they think of what medical assistants do. Clinical medical assistant duties depend upon the laws of their specific states, but their role is more medical than those of clerical and administrative medical assistants.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A medical assistant is an allied health professional that supports the work of physicians and other health professionals, usually in a clinic setting. Medical assistants can become certified through an accredited program usually offered through a junior or community college. In Canada, medical assistants typically complete an educational program that prepares them to perform special assisting and secretarial duties for physicians, dentists, nurses, health care facilities, and other health service providers.
The medical assistant job description is varied and broad. Medical assistants perform many job duties to keep the offices of doctors, medical centers, and clinics running smoothly. Depending on their employer’s needs, they may perform clerical, administrative, or clinical job duties, or all three. The role of a clinical medical assistant is what most people imagine when they think of what medical assistants do. Clinical medical assistant duties depend upon the laws of their specific states, but their role is more medical than those of clerical and administrative medical assistants.
The term medical assistant may have legal status in jurisdictions where they can be certified or registered, whereas elsewhere they may be a loosely defined group (covering related occupational titles such as ‘medical office assistant’, ‘clinical assistant’, 'assistant medical officer', or ‘ophthalmic assistant’). In Canada, medical assistants typically complete an educational program that prepares them to perform special assisting and secretarial duties for physicians, dentists, nurses, health care facilities, and other health service providers.
Job Responsibilities | Medical assistants are cross-trained to perform administrative and clinical duties. Here is a quick overview (duties vary from office to office depending on location, size, specialty, and state law): Administrative Duties (may include, but not limited to): 1  Using computer applications. PCMH Team Member | Medical assistants are essential members of the Patient-Centered Medical Home team. According to a survey by the Healthcare Intelligence Network, medical assistants ranked as one of the top five professionals necessary to the PCMH team.
What Medical Assistants Do. Medical assistants complete administrative and clinical tasks in the offices of physicians, podiatrists, chiropractors, and other health practitioners. Their duties vary with the location, specialty, and size of the practice. Medical assistants often take medical histories and record vital signs of patients. Medical assistants complete administrative and clinical tasks in the offices of physicians, podiatrists, chiropractors, and other health practitioners.
Medical assistants perform a variety of administrative and clinical duties under the supervision of a more senior caregiver such as physician, registered nurse or licensed vocational nurse. 
Medical assistants perform routine administrative and clinical tasks to keep the offices of physicians and other health practitioners running smoothly. The duties of medical assistants vary from office to office, depending on the location and size of the practice and the practitioner's specialty. 
Medical assistant duties vary widely based on the type of medical assistant, the state a medical assistant is employed in, the employer’s industry, the number of other medical assistants working, and other factors. All of these factors combine to produce a specific medical assistant job description. Medical assistants work in a variety of settings and have a variety of responsibilities. Some work in the offices of physicians, some work in hospitals, and some work in outpatient medical centers or specialty clinics.