Examples of common lipids include butter, vegetable oil, cholesterol and other steroids, waxes, phospholipids, and fat-soluble vitamins. The common characteristic of all of these compounds is that they are essentially insoluble in water yet soluble in one or more organic solvents. Lipids are used by organisms for energy storage, as a signalling molecule (e.g., steroid hormones), and as a structural component of cell membranes. The other major classes of organic compounds (nucleic acids, proteins, and carbohydrates) are much more soluble in water than in an organic solvent. Lipids do not share a common molecule structure. There are many different types of lipids.
To put it another way, lipids are insoluble in water but soluble in at least one organic solvent. The other major classes of organic compounds (nucleic acids, proteins, and carbohydrates) are much more soluble in water than in an organic solvent. Lipids do not share a common molecule structure. There are many different types of lipids.
n. Any of a group of organic compounds, including the fats, oils, waxes, sterols, and triglycerides, that are insoluble in water but soluble in common organic solvents, are oily to the touch, and together with carbohydrates and proteins constitute the principal structural material of living cells. lip·id′ic adj.
1 Lipids are relatively insoluble in water. 2  They are soluble in non-polar solvents, like ether, chloroform, methanol. 3  Lipids have high energy content and are metabolized to release calories. 4  Lipids also act as electrical insulators, they insulate nerve axons. Characteristics of Lipids. 1  Lipids are relatively insoluble in water. 2  They are soluble in non-polar solvents, like ether, chloroform, methanol. 3  Lipids have high energy content and are metabolized to release calories.
a group of substances comprising fatty, greasy, oily and waxy compounds that are insoluble in water and soluble in nonpolar solvents, such as hexane, ether and chloroform. Simple lipids are the triglycerides or neutral fats. Any of a group of organic compounds, including the fats, oils, waxes, sterols, and triglycerides, that are insoluble in water but soluble in common organic solvents, are oily to the touch, and together with carbohydrates and proteins constitute the principal structural material of living cells. lip·id′ic adj.
Lipids. Lipids are very diverse in both their respective structures and functions. These diverse compounds that make up the lipid family are so grouped because they are insoluble in water. They are however soluble in other organic solvents such as ether, acetone, and other lipids. Major lipid groups include fats, phospholipids, steroids, and waxe
Therefore, Lipids are not soluble in water but are soluble in nonpolar solvents (ex: benzene and chloroform). Lipids have several functions in biology. Digestion of triglycerides yields glycerol and fatty acids, which are subsequently used as fuel. Lipids belong to a family of organic compounds which includes fats, oils, waxes, cholesterol, phospholipids, steroids, and fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, and K). They are formed by either or both carbanion-based condensation of thioesters and carbocation-based condensation of isoprene units.
Phosphoglycerides are lipids of glycerol groups bonded to two fat-soluble fatty acids and one charged, water-soluble phosphate group; the compound is known as phosphatidic acid. The phosphate group can be bonded by other chemical group to form different structures for different functions. Lipids belong to a family of organic compounds which includes fats, oils, waxes, cholesterol, phospholipids, steroids, and fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, and K). They are formed by either or both carbanion-based condensation of thioesters and carbocation-based condensation of isoprene units.
Lipids. Lipids are important constituent of of the diet because they are a source of high energy value. Lipids are also important because of the fat-soluble vitamins, and essential fatty acids found in the fat of the natural food stuffs. Body fat serves as a very good source of energy, it is stored in adipose tissues. Characteristics of Lipids. 1  Lipids are relatively insoluble in water. 2  They are soluble in non-polar solvents, like ether, chloroform, methanol. 3  Lipids have high energy content and are metabolized to release calories. 4  Lipids also act as electrical insulators, they insulate nerve axon