Works on any iPhone/touch app that features spelling correction, actually. You could, of course, just turn off Auto-Correction in the Settings/General/Keyboard menu, but this method provides a quick tweak that leaves the finger-waving for the real typos. Stop The iPhone's AutoCorrect Feature Ruining Your SMS Messages [Lifehacker Australia]. 31 Reply Leave a reply. Kinja is in read-only mode. Writing an email on your iPhone or iPod touch with a lot of jargon? Tapping out a text in another language? Here's how you can prevent the overbearing auto-correct feature from slowing you down.
Step 3. Tap Keyboard. Step 4. Turn the Auto-Correction slider to OFF: from green to white. Step 5. Now when Auto-Correction function was disabled, press home button to return to home screen and tap again Notes app. Let's tap the name of the previous note that we did not manage to write properly.
How to turn off Autocorrect on the iPhone or iPad. If you've decided that you no longer want Autocorrect to be a part of your iPad/iPhone experience, then you can head into settings to turn it off. Follow these steps to turn off Autocorrect. 1  Set the Auto-Correction setting to Off. Auto-Correction also appears in Mac OS X. While it's not such a problem in OS X (because typing on a keyboard is generally more accurate), it can still cause problems. If you've decided that you no longer want to use Auto-Correction in OS X, follow these steps: 1  Choose Keyboards.
How to turn off Autocorrect on the Mac. Auto-Correction also appears in Mac OS X. While it's not such a problem in OS X (because typing on a keyboard is generally more accurate), it can still cause problems. If you've decided that you no longer want to use Auto-Correction in OS X, follow these steps: 1  Choose Keyboards.
How Do You Turn Off Spell Check on the iPhone 5. Your iPhone 5 has two features that can be used to correct words that are spelled incorrectly. The first feature, auto-correction, is the more aggressive of the features. It will automatically fix words that are spelled incorrectly using a dictionary that learns from your past spelling habits. 
Note that you can disable auto-correct while simultaneously leaving on spell checking, and while leaving the handy Quick Type keyboard intact in iOS, which can be a happy medium solution for many users who hate auto-correct but want to be notified of typos and have faster typing options available. Of course users can always opt to return the Autocorrection function back to their iPhone and iPad if they should wish to have the feature enabled again: 1  Return ot the “Settings” app and visit “General” followed by “Keyboard”. 2  Flip the switch next to ‘Auto-Correction’ into the ON Position.
Turning Off Auto-Correction in iOS. 1  Open the “Settings” app on the iPhone or iPad. 2  Go to “General” and then to “Keyboard”. 3  Locate “Auto-Correction” and flip the switch to the OFF position. 4  Exit out of Settings as usual. Of course users can always opt to return the Autocorrection function back to their iPhone and iPad if they should wish to have the feature enabled again: 1  Return ot the “Settings” app and visit “General” followed by “Keyboard”. 2  Flip the switch next to ‘Auto-Correction’ into the ON Position.
This is a full tutorial on how to turn off auto correct on iPhone, iPhone 4s, iPhone 4, iPod touch and the iPad. Subscribe-http://youtube.com/danshowtovideos. Twitter-http://twitter.com/dandepenta. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Step 4 - Evrika! The long sought Auto-Correction toggle found, at last! Tap or slide it and it will also disable check-spelling, freeing you of ever having to break your writing flow to dismiss a lousy suggestion that clearly shows how bad of a mind reader iOS really is. Hope you found this guide to be useful.
If you’re fed up with auto-correct on the iPhone erroneously changing words to things you did not intend to type, you can opt to disable the auto-correction feature completely in iOS. Of course users can always opt to return the Autocorrection function back to their iPhone and iPad if they should wish to have the feature enabled again: 1  Return ot the “Settings” app and visit “General” followed by “Keyboard”. 2  Flip the switch next to ‘Auto-Correction’ into the ON Position.