Minerals and rocks are the essential building blocks of the geosphere. Although there are over 3,000 species of minerals, only a few of them, such as quartz, feldspar, mica, amphibole, pyroxene, olivine and calcite, occur commonly as rock-forming minerals. 
The six minerals olivine, quartz, feldspar, mica, pyroxene and amphibole are the commonest rock-forming minerals and are used as important tools in classifying rocks, particularly igneous rocks. Except for quartz, all the minerals listed are actually mineral groups. Plagioclase. Feldspar: Feldspar is the other common, light-coloured rock-forming mineral. Instead of being glassy like quartz, it is generally dull to opaque with a porcelain-like appearance. Colour varies from red, pink, and white (orthoclase) to green, grey and white (plagioclase).
There are also minerals which form both by inorganic and organic processes. For example, calcite (CaCO 3) is a common vein mineral in rocks, and also a shell-forming material in many life forms. Calcite of organic origin conforms to the above definition except for the requirement that it be inorganic. 
Orthoclase Plagioclase Feldspar: Feldspar is the other common, light-coloured rock-forming mineral. Instead of being glassy like quartz, it is generally dull to opaque with a porcelain-like appearance. Colour varies from red, pink, and white (orthoclase) to green, grey and white (plagioclase). Plagioclase. Feldspar: Feldspar is the other common, light-coloured rock-forming mineral. Instead of being glassy like quartz, it is generally dull to opaque with a porcelain-like appearance. Colour varies from red, pink, and white (orthoclase) to green, grey and white (plagioclase).
Common rock-forming minerals. These are specimens of minerals from the University of Auckland's collection. Along with the common rock-forming minerals, we have included apatite, corundum, diamond, fluorite, topaz and talc to illustrate minerals used in Moh's Scale of Hardness. Click on either a thumbnail, or the name in the list at the side, for details and larger photographs of each mineral.
Great question. I'm assuming you are referring to minerals which form igneous rocks. The vast majority of the common igneous rock-forming minerals belong to the silicate group, which means that they are based on silicon and oxygen for their basic elemental components. 
1.4. Almost 85% of the atoms in the crust are oxygen or silicon atoms, and as a result the vast majority of common (rock-forming) minerals are silicates -- combinations of oxygen and silicon primarily with the other six (most common) metals listed above. Pure silica or quartz consists of only silicon and oxygen. (Also see Meteorites). Most of the common rock-forming minerals are combinations of the most abundant materials in the Earth, taking into account the differentiation of the Earth into lighter and denser layers early in its history.
Minerals are: 1) naturally occuring 2) inorganic 3) solids with 4) definite chemical compositions and 5) an orderly arrangement of atoms. There are over 2000 different minerals. A few common  rock-forming minerals  make up most of the rocks in earth's crust, and most of these (over 90 percent) are silicates. The minerals are grouped based on their chemical composition.