The surface of Uranus is hard to define, but these are the sorts of temperatures: Highest, about -216 degrees Celsius. Lowest, about -224 degrees Celsius. There's not much d … ifference, as you can see.
Uranus orbits the sun every 84 years at an average distance of 1.8 billion miles (2.9 billion km) and spins on its own axis every 17 hours compared to 24 hours on Earth. Uranus has the coldest atmospheric temperature of any planet in the solar system, around -224C (-371F).
1 Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the third largest in the solar system. 2  Its diameter is 31,763 miles (51,118 km) which is four times larger than Earth. 3  The planet is categorized as an ice giant due to the high levels of icy elements in its composition.
The atmosphere of Uranus is composed of 83% helium, 15% methane and 2% methane plus trace amounts of other gases such as ethane. The average temperature of the surface of Uranus is 49° Kelvin or -224° Celsius. What makes the planet so cold is that it has a low internal temperature.
View full size image. The seventh planet from the sun, Uranus has the coldest atmosphere of any of the planets in the solar system, even though it is not the most distant. Despite the fact that its equator faces away from the sun, the temperature distribution on Uranus is much like other planets, with a warmer equator and cooler poles.
The atmosphere of Uranus is made up of around 83% hydrogen, 15% helium, 2% methane and small amounts of ethane and other gases. The presence of methane gives Uranus its turquoise color. The rather featurless nature of Uranus's atmosphere is due to the lack of heat generated inside the planet.
The upper atmosphere of Uranus is the coldest in the Solar System,  with a minimum te … mperature of 49 K. It has a complex cloud  structure with water clouds presumably being the deepest and  methane clouds at the top.
Uranus: Uranus is the coldest planet in our Solar System, with a lowest recorded temperature of -224°C. Despite its distance from the Sun, the largest contributing factor to its frigid nature has to do with its core.