4. Store your dough in the freezer for up to three months. To Use: Thaw your pie dough in the fridge overnight. Then, roll it out as usual. Option 2: 1. Make your dough; roll it out; and form your crust in a pie plate. 2. Then, stick the whole thing – pie plate and all – in a freezer bag
Use the pie within 3-4 months of freezing for best quality. • Defrost the apple pie in the refrigerator and then re-heat in a 350˚ F oven until warm (about 30 minutes). How to Store Unbaked Apple Pie: • You can keep unbaked apple pies for up to two days in the refrigerator. Cover loosely with aluminum foil or plastic wrap. If the pie has been sliced, cover loosely with foil or plastic wrap. • Apple pie will keep for an additional 2-3 days in the refrigerator, loosely covered with foil or plastic wrap. • To freeze, wrap pie tightly with aluminum foil or plastic freezer wrap, or place in heavy-duty freezer bag.
1 (In warm climates, always store fruit pies in the refrigerator.). 2  You can freeze both baked and unbaked pie crusts. 3  An unbaked crust will keep for 2 months in the freezer; a baked crust will keep for 4 months. Storage Tips. 1  Be sure to refrigerate pies containing eggs (pumpkin, custard and cream pies). 2  Be aware that custard and cream pies do not freeze successfully. 3  Fruit pies keep at room temperature for two days; you can store them, loosely covered, in the refrigerator for up to two days longer.
Wrap well in foil or freezer paper, an unbaked pie shell will keep in the freezer for at least 3 months. Unbaked shells should be unwrapped and baked while still frozen in a 450 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes (less for a tart shell, longer for a basic pie crust), or until browned. Do not defrost them before baking them; bake them, unwrapped, directly from the freezer, in a preheated 425 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes and then in a 350 degree oven for the remainder of the baking time. The total baking time for a frozen pie will be about 20 minutes longer than for an unfrozen one.
Shape the dough into a ball, wrap in plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. (This dough can be frozen for up to 2 months.) Remove from the refrigerator. Roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface. Use as directed in your desired pie recipe. 
Thaw the frozen pie dough in the refrigerator (thawing will take a few hours) and then roll it out as usual. A second option is to roll out the dough and then freeze the unbaked pie crust directly in the pie plate. For best results, use the frozen pie dough or frozen pie crusts within 3 months. You can also refrigerate unbaked pie dough or unbaked pie crust for up to 3 days. Keep tightly covered with aluminum foil or plastic wrap. See Also:
Re: How Long Will Pie Dough Keep. 3 months in the freezer. You can either freeze in a ball or rolled out in a pie plate. If using the pie plate, you don't have to defrost it before baking. 3 days in the refrigerator (well wrapped).
• You can keep baked apple pies at room temperature for up to two days. If the pie has been sliced, cover loosely with foil or plastic wrap. • Apple pie will keep for an additional 2-3 days in the refrigerator, loosely covered with foil or plastic wrap. • To freeze, wrap pie tightly with aluminum foil or plastic freezer wrap, or place in heavy-duty freezer bag.
Answers. Best Answer: UNBAKED PIE DOUGH Unbaked pie dough will keep in the refrigerator, tightly wrapped, for about 4 days. Pat the dough into a ball and wrap it well with foil or plastic wrap. Let it soften a bit at room temperature before you roll it out. Unbaked pie dough can also be frozen for at least 3 months. Do not defrost them before baking them; bake them, unwrapped, directly from the freezer, in a preheated 425 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes and then in a 350 degree oven for the remainder of the baking time. The total baking time for a frozen pie will be about 20 minutes longer than for an unfrozen one.