Medical Definition of PRECIPITATION. 1. a: the process of forming a precipitate from a solution b: the process of precipitating or removing solid or liquid particles from a smoke or gas by electrical means. 2. : precipitate. Full Definition of PRECIPITATION. 1. : the quality or state of being precipitate: hastiness. 2. : an act, process, or instance of precipitating; especially: the process of forming a
Definition of PRECIPITATION for Kids. : water that falls to the earth as hail, mist, rain, sleet, or snow. Full Definition of PRECIPITATION. 1. : the quality or state of being precipitate: hastiness. 2. : an act, process, or instance of precipitating; especially: the process of forming a precipitate.
Precipitation takes place when water condensation becomes sufficient that water droplets are heavy enough to fall back to the surface of the Earth. Precipitation is a very common phenomena in the atmosphere of our Earth. This precipitation always comes from clouds. Yet most clouds do not form precipitation. This is because the water droplets and ice crystals found in most clouds are too small, and thus not heavy enough to fall
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Precipitate Definition: to form an insoluble compound either by reacting two salts or by changing the temperature to affect the solubility of the compound. Also the name given to the solid that is formed as a result of a precipitation reaction. Example: Mixing silver nitrate and sodium chloride in water will cause silver chloride to precipitate out of solution as a solid. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index.
Precipitation is rain, snow, sleet, hail, or any other water that falls from the sky. In meteorology, precipitation (also known as one of the classes of hydrometeors, which are atmospheric water phenomena) is any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapor that is deposited on the Earth's surface. Precipitation means rain, or other forms of water (snow fog or hail) falling from the sky. In science terms, it means to cause a solid or liquid, to come out of a gasseous m … ixtur
1. Meteorology. a. Any form of water, such as rain, snow, sleet, or hail, that falls to the earth's surface. b. The quantity of such water falling in a specific area within a specific period. 2. A hastening or acceleration, especially one that is sudden or unexpected: He is responsible for the precipitation of his own demise. A term for the formation of water droplets, as water vapor in the air condenses, that are large enough to start to fall. If the temperature is above 32°F (0°C) it will fall as rain, below this temperature it will fall as snow, sleet, or hail.
New! Water cycle for kids poster. Precipitation is water released from clouds in the form of rain, freezing rain, sleet, snow, or hail. It is the primary connection in the water cycle that provides for the delivery of atmospheric water to the Earth. Most precipitation falls as rain. 
Aggregate dredging. Hobbies include. DIY, car maintenance, computer repairs, tv/video/ radio repairs. Precipitation means rain, or other forms of water (snow fog or hail) falling from the sky. In science terms, it means to cause a solid or liquid, to come out of a gasseous mixture. 