Beta adrenergic blocking agents: A class of drugs, also called beta blockers, that block beta-adrenergic substances such as adrenaline (epinephrine), a key agent in the sympathetic portion of the autonomic (involuntary) nervous system. 
Alpha blockers, also called alpha-adrenergic antagonists, treat a variety of conditions, such as high blood pressure, benign prostatic hyperplasia and Raynaud's disease. Find out more about this class of medication. Alpha blockers are also called alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, alpha-adrenergic antagonists, adrenergic blocking agents and alpha-blocking agents. Examples of alpha blockers used to treat high blood pressure include: 1  Doxazosin (Cardura). 2  Prazosin (Minipress).
BETA ADRENERGIC RECEPTOR BLOCKERS. 1) These drugs are competitive antagonists of the beta adrenergic receptor. 2) The beta blockers used in clinical therapeutics are either selective for the beta1 receptor or nonselective beta1 and beta2 antagonists. 1) The pharmacologic properties and toxicities of beta-adrenergic blockers as exemplified by propranolol and metoprolol. 2) The therapeutic uses of beta-adrenergic receptor blockers. 3) The pharmacologic properties, toxicities and therapeutic uses for tamsulosin and prazosin-like drugs.
A selective adrenergic alpha-1 antagonist used in the treatment of HEART FAILURE; HYPERTENSION; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; RAYNAUD DISEASE; PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY; and URINARY RETENTION. Definition (NCI). A synthetic piperazine derivative and an alpha-1 adrenergic receptor inhibitor used primarily as an anti-hypertensive. 
Alpha 1 -adrenergic blockers are drugs that work by blocking the alpha 1 -receptors of vascular smooth muscle, thus preventing the uptake of catecholamines by the smooth muscle cells. This causes vasodilation and allows blood to flow more easily. Alpha blockers — Medications that bind alpha adrenergic receptors and decrease the workload of the heart and lower blood pressure. They are commonly used to treat hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, and hyperplasia.
An Adrenergic antagonist is a pharmaceutical substance that acts to inhibit the action of catecholamines at the adrenergic receptors. It is thus a type of sympatholytic. Many important and commonly prescribed medications are adrenergic antagonists, including prazosin and propanolol. Like all pharmacological receptor antagonists, adrenergic antagonists only show an effect when the receptor's effector is present.
The alpha-1 adrenergic receptor antagonists (also called alpha-blockers) are a family of agents that bind to and inhibit type 1 alpha-adrenergic receptors and thus inhibit smooth muscle contraction. 1  Doxazosin. All of the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor antagonists are associated with a minimal rate of serum enzyme elevations during chronic therapy (0.2% to 2%).