Cheetahs may be fast but the question that wildlife biologists ask is, are they fast enough to outrun extinction? Today cheetahs are an endangered species. Like all spotted and striped cats, cheetahs have long been under pressure by the fur trade. But, over-hunting is not the principle problem facing cheetahs. Loss of habitat, competition with large predators and ranchers, as well as its own loss of genetic variation, is killing off the remaining cheetahs. Namibia is a desert country, and much like America 's southwest, cattle and sheep ranching are the principle agricultural efforts. As a result, cheetahs are thought to be in direct conflict with ranchers and are exterminated in high numbers.
Cheetahs are big cats, members of the Felidae family and closely related to bobcats, lynxes and pumas. These graceful animals are identified by their unique black spots on gold or yellow coats and are known for their amazing speed. Size. Cheetahs are 3.5 to 4.5 feet (1.1 to 1.4 meters) long from head to rump, and their tails add an additional 25.5 to 31.5 inches (65 to 80 centimeters). Normally, these big cats weigh around 77 to 143 lbs. (35 to 65 kilograms), according to National Geographic.
Here are some of the most interesting and amazing cheetah facts for kids. The cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) is a feline that is endemic to Africa with some of the species are also found in the Middle East. These animals are the extant members of genus Acinonyx. Without any doubt, cheetah is the fastest living animal on earth and covers a vast distance of about 500 metres (1,600 feet). Cheetahs are considered to be endangered animals in that only 12,400 species are left in more than 20 different African countries.
The cheetah is listed as vulnerable, facing various threats including: loss of habitat and prey; conflict with humans; the illegal pet trade; competition with and predation by other carnivores; and a gene pool with very low variability. In the wild, the cheetah is a prolific breeder, with up to nine cubs in a litter. The majority of cubs do not survive to adulthood, mainly as a result of depredation from other predators. The rate of cub mortality varies from area to area, from 50% to 75%, and in extreme cases such as the Serengeti ecosystem, up to 90%.
Cheetahs are mostly found in sub-Saharan Africa and in eastern and southern African parks. Some of the animals can still be found in southern Algeria, northern Niger and Iran. They like dry, open grasslands where they can pick up speed to kill prey. Size. Cheetahs are 3.5 to 4.5 feet (1.1 to 1.4 meters) long from head to rump, and their tails add an additional 25.5 to 31.5 inches (65 to 80 centimeters). Normally, these big cats weigh around 77 to 143 lbs. (35 to 65 kilograms), according to National Geographic.
The cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) is a big cat in the subfamily Felinae that inhabits most of Africa and parts of Iran. It is the only extant member of the genus Acinonyx. The cheetah can run as fast as 109.4 to 120.7 km/h (68.0 to 75.0 mph), faster than any other land animal. In the wild, the cheetah is a prolific breeder, with up to nine cubs in a litter. The majority of cubs do not survive to adulthood, mainly as a result of depredation from other predators. The rate of cub mortality varies from area to area, from 50% to 75%, and in extreme cases such as the Serengeti ecosystem, up to 90%.
Since the animals can reach top speeds in no time, cheetahs have a slender body frame that is both lightweight and aerodynamic. Averaging a shoulder height of 30 inches, most cheetahs are between 110 to 140 pounds on their small stature. 
Cheetahs are carnivores, meaning their primary food is meat. The predators stick to smaller prey, such as gazelles, hares, young wildebeest, warthogs and birds. These cats were made for a dry lifestyle. They only need to drink water every three or four days. Size. Cheetahs are 3.5 to 4.5 feet (1.1 to 1.4 meters) long from head to rump, and their tails add an additional 25.5 to 31.5 inches (65 to 80 centimeters). Normally, these big cats weigh around 77 to 143 lbs. (35 to 65 kilograms), according to National Geographic.
Not so long ago cheetahs inhabited an area from North Africa to India, but they are now commonly found only in sub-Saharan Africa (south of the Sahara Desert). Their range includes sparse sub-desert, steppe (a treeless plain), medium and long-grass plains. 