Athletic Trainer: Education Requirements & Career Summary. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an athletic trainer. Get a quick view of the requirements, including degree programs, job duties and licensure, to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». Essential Information. Athletic trainers are healthcare professionals who recognize, prevent and rehabilitate injuries that result from playing sports or other physical activities. Prospective athletic trainers need a bachelor's degree at minimum, and they may also need a master's degree.
1 To become an athletic trainer, candidates must graduate with a degree in Athletic Training from an accredited athletic training program and successfully pass the Board of Certification (BOC) Exam. 1 Athletic Trainers (ATs) are health care professionals who collaborate with physicians to provide preventative services, emergency care, clinical diagnosis, therapeutic intervention and rehabilitation of injuries and medical conditions.
Certification and licensure as an athletic trainer requires, at minimum, a degree in athletic training from an accredited college or university. According to the National Athletic Trainers Association, about 70 percent of working athletic trainers in the United States hold at least a master’s degree. 
The MSAT program is a professional (entry-level) athletic training program for students who do not hold a bachelor’s degree in athletic training but who wish to pursue athletic training credentials by the Board of Certification (BOC) and pursue a career as a Certified Athletic Trainer (ATC). 
Master's degree programs usually require an athletic trainer to have a bachelor's degree in the field; some also require experience in the field or state certification to practice. This means that students learn both the practical, hands-on element of athletic training, as well as the theory behind it, over the course of a four-year education. Entry-level athletic trainers with bachelor's degrees can expect to earn a salary in the low-$20,000 range, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
A career as a Certified Athletic Trainer requires a bachelor's degree at the entry level. If you're planning to attend a four-year college or university, Northampton's Sports Medicine: Athletic Training program is an affordable way to start your education. The Associate in Science degree in Sports Medicine with a concentration in Athletic Training is designed to prepare students to successfully transfer to a four year Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE) accredited program.
All athletic trainers need a high school diploma or equivalency degree. The American Medical Association recognizes an athletic trainer as an allied health-care professional position, which means only qualified individuals with a strong base in general knowledge can work with patients in an athletic trainer capacity. This means that students learn both the practical, hands-on element of athletic training, as well as the theory behind it, over the course of a four-year education. Entry-level athletic trainers with bachelor's degrees can expect to earn a salary in the low-$20,000 range, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
1. Receive the proper education needed to become an athletic trainer. 1  Obtain a 4-year undergraduate degree in athletic training or sports science. 2  The field of athletic training will prepare you for and train you in first aid procedures and teach you how to identify and treat specific athletic injuries. 1
Career Education Overview. To become an athletic trainer who works in sports medicine, students need to earn a minimum of a bachelor's degree. Any prospective program needs to be accredited through the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE). Students in a bachelor's degree program related to athletic training will take courses in anatomy, physiology and kinesiology. In addition to classroom work, students will also complete clinical experience education. Athletic trainers who work in sports medicine must have at least a bachelor's degree; licensing is also required in order to enter this career field.
The majority of athletic trainer jobs require a bachelor's degree in athletic training. This usually takes the form of a Bachelor of Science degree and is available at more than 350 accredited universities, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This means that students learn both the practical, hands-on element of athletic training, as well as the theory behind it, over the course of a four-year education. Entry-level athletic trainers with bachelor's degrees can expect to earn a salary in the low-$20,000 range