You can apply for a replacement identification card on-line or in person at a driver license office. If you are temporarily out-of-state, and want to wait until you return to Florida to get a replacement driver license, then you can receive a 90-day temporary permit. To request a permit, please write to: You must present proof of identification and proof of residence documents and pay the replacement fee. The fee will be waived for a stolen license or identification card if a police report has been filed. Please have a copy of the report with you when applying for the replacement.
Online replacement is not yet available for enhanced ID cards. By Mail. If you are traveling in the U.S. and lose your standard or enhanced state ID card, contact the Department of State Out-of-State Resident Services Unit at (517) 322-1473 to request a replacement.
The cost of an original ID card, renewal, or replacement Florida ID is $25. If your Florida ID card has expired before you renew it, you will have to pay a delinquent fee of $15 on top of the original $25 renewal fee. All Florida state-sponsored DHSMV service centers accept these payment options: 1  Cash. The DHSMV driver license office will ask to see proof of your identity, Social Security number, and residential address. You will have to pay a replacement fee of $25. Please reference “ Applying for a Florida ID Card ” for examples of acceptable documents to provide.
1 You may also wish to place a fraud alert on your credit file. 2  Driver's License Fraud If you apply for a new driver's license/ ID number within 150 days of the original expiration date, the fee is $20 for a 5 year license/ ID or $32 for a 8 year license/ ID. 3  Otherwise the fee is $5. 1 Driver's License Fraud If you apply for a new driver's license/ ID number within 150 days of the original expiration date, the fee is $20 for a 5 year license/ ID or $32 for a 8 year license/ ID. 2
To replace an ID card, apply on line or in person at a Florida driver license office. The fastest way to get a replacement license or ID card is to go to your local driver license office and apply for a replacement. You must present proof of identification and proof of residence documents and pay the replacement fee. The fee will be waived for a stolen license or identification card if a police report has been filed. Please have a copy of the report with you when applying for the replacement.
NOTE: Photocopies will not be accepted. What it will cost: $30 to replace a driver's license, Commercial Driver's License (CDL), or non-driver photo ID. $19 to replace a learner's permit. $16 to replace a motorcycle learner's permit. $3 convenience fee for DMV transactions processed at AAA offices. 
Out-of-State? If you are currently out-of-state and your ID card is expired, lost, stolen, or damaged, you will have to apply for a replacement or renewal at a DMV office in Oregon when you return. If your ID card is about to expire or will expire in the next 14 months you may be able to renew. If you are eligible to renew when you apply for a replacement we may ask you if you would prefer to renew in lieu of replacing your ID card.
For more information, select Replace State ID Card from the ExpressSOS home page. At a Secretary of State Office If your standard or enhanced state ID card is lost or stolen, you may visit any Secretary of State office to apply for a replacement. If you are traveling in the U.S. and lose your standard or enhanced state ID card, contact the Department of State Out-of-State Resident Services Unit at (517) 322-1473 to request
Replacing your ID card at an office. You may get a replacement ID card at any driver licensing office. 1  Bring along: 2  Your proof of identity. 3  Pay the fee. 4  Your new card: 5  Will be mailed within 7–10 days. 6  If you don’t get it within 45 days, contact us at drivers@dol.wa.gov. 7  Will have a new photo. 