White rice usually takes about 15 to 20 minutes to cook. Check the rice about 4 minutes before the timer is due to go off. When you take the cover off, the top of the rice may look like it is totally cooked.
A: Generally white rice takes around 10 minutes per uncooked cup of rice to cook in both cool touch and Pot Style rice Cookers. Brown rice will take around 20 minutes per uncooked cup of rice to cook in Pot Style Rice Cookers and 2 hours to cook in Cool Touch Rice Cookers due to the extra bran layers on the grain. Please note that these measurements refer to the measuring cup provided by AROMA Housewares Company that came with your unit.
Measure the rice with a cup and put it into your cooking pot. Some rice cookers have a removable bowl or pot, while others must have the rice placed directly in the cooker. Most of the time, rice cookers will come with a measuring cup or scoop that can fit 3/4 cup (180 mL).
Cooking Time. One cup of regular long, medium, or short grain rice typically takes 15 minutes to cook in a rice cooker, parboiled rice tends to take 20 minutes for 1 cup, and 1 cup of whole grain rice can take between 40 and 45 minutes.
Add the rice to the slow cooker that is cooking on high, when there is 2 hours left in the cooking time. If your slow cooker is set on low, add when there is 2 hours 45 minute
My video “Cooking White Rice” uses the 1-2-3 ratio for perfect white rice. (1 cup of rice, 2 cups of water, will make 3 cups of rice.). This formula does not work for brown rice. Check the back of the package of rice to determine how much water is needed for your particular brand of rice.
1 Rice works on a 2 to 1 ratio in the slow cooker, 2 cups water to 1 cup rice, just as it does when cooking on the stove top or baking. 2  So if there is about 2 cups of liquid already in the slow cooker, then just add the rice. 3  If there only seems to be 1 cup, then add in an additional cup of hot water or broth.
Also, You can use your slow cooker as a rice cooker. Simply spray the sides and bottom with a non-stick cooking spray. Add the amount of water plus rice that you’d like to cook using the 2 to 1 ratio (explained above). If you are using brown rice, add an additional 1/2 cup, or use a 2 1/2 cup water to 1 cup rice ratio.