I mentioned in the opening section that xanthan gum is produced by bacterial fermentation of a sugar-containing medium. Unfortunately, that ‘medium’ is often a potentially allergenic substance such as corn, soy, dairy, or wheat.
XANTHAN GUM Overview Information. Xanthan gum is a sugar-like compound made by mixing aged (fermented) sugars with a certain kind of bacteria. It is used to make medicine. Xanthan gum is used for lowering blood sugar and total cholesterol in people with diabetes. It is also used as a laxative. Xanthan gum is sometimes used as a saliva substitute in people with dry mouth (Sjogren's syndrome). In manufacturing, xanthan gum is used as a thickening and stabilizing agent in foods, toothpastes, and medicines. Xanthan gum is also an ingredient in some sustained-release pills.
To quote its Wikipedia page’s definition: Xanthan gum (/ˈzaenθən/) ˈzænθən is a polysaccharide secreted by the Bacterium xanthomonas. Campestris: Translation xanthan gum is a sugar derived typically from (corn can also be from soy or) wheat that has been pooped out by a bacteria that produces rot on various. vegetables
Last time, I discussed the health effects of carrageenan, a food additive that is commonly used as a stabilizer, thickener, or emulsifier. Another additive that shares many of these functions in commercial foods is xanthan gum, which is also popular in gluten-free baked goods for the elasticity it lends to dough.
1 Xanthan gum is made by fermenting corn sugar with Xanthomonas compestris, a bacteria. 2  In processed human foods, xanthan gum is used as an emulsifier, a thickener, and in gluten-free products.
Xanthan gum is a largely indigestible polysaccharide that is produced by bacteria called Xanthomonas Camestris. (1) Manufacturers place the bacteria in a growth medium that contains sugars and other nutrients, and the resulting product of bacterial fermentation is purified, dried, powdered, and sold as xanthan gum.
Chances are you have consumed xanthan gum mores times than you realize. It is a common ingredient in everyday items like toothpaste, medicine, various condiments like salad dressing, cosmetics, ice cream, and even gum.