Schist is often referred to as schistosity because of its large mica flakes. Large crystals cause schist rocks to reflect lots of light which gives it a very shiny appearance. The large crystals in schist indicate the amount of pressure and temperature that was used to make the rock. Schist Rock Facts. Schist is a metamorphic rock that contains flakes of mica. Schist can originate as a sedimentary rock or igneous rock. It can contain different miners. Interesting Schist Rock Facts: Schist and slate are very similar in that they are made from the same rock types except schist is subjected to more heat and pressure
Southern Alps, Central Otago area. Schist is medium grade metamorphic rock, formed by the metamorphosis of mudstone / shale, or some types of igneous rock, to a higher degree than slate, i.e. it has been subjected to higher temperatures and pressures. 
Muscovite is the most common mineral of the mica family. It is an important rock-forming mineral present in igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks. Like other micas it readily cleaves into thin transparent sheets. Muscovite can occur as isolated grains in schist and gneiss or it can be abundant enough that the rocks are called mica schist or micaceous gneiss. Muscovite is not especially resistant to chemical weathering. It is quickly transformed into clay minerals.
The names of various schists are derived from their mineral constituents. For example, schists rich in mica are called mica schists and include biotite or muscovite. Most schists are mica schists, but graphite and chlorite schists are also common. Schist forms at a higher temperature and has larger grains than phyllite. Geological foliation (metamorphic arrangement in layers) with medium to large grained flakes in a preferred sheetlike orientation is called schistosity.
Schist specimen showing the characteristic scaly schistose texture, caused by platy micas. Schist is a medium-grade metamorphic rock with medium to large, flat, sheet-like grains in a preferred orientation (nearby grains are roughly parallel). It is defined by having more than 50% platy and elongated minerals, often finely interleaved with quartz and feldspar. Schist forms at a higher temperature and has larger grains than phyllite. Geological foliation (metamorphic arrangement in layers) with medium to large grained flakes in a preferred sheetlike orientation is called schistosity.
Most schist contains the mineral mica and is called mica schist. Schist is often used as a guide to measure specific sizes and dimensions of objects. Before the 18th century, schist, shale, and slate were used interchangeably to describe the same rock. Schist Rock Facts. Schist is a metamorphic rock that contains flakes of mica. Schist can originate as a sedimentary rock or igneous rock. It can contain different miners. Interesting Schist Rock Facts: Schist and slate are very similar in that they are made from the same rock types except schist is subjected to more heat and pressure
MICA-SCHIST AND RELATED SCHIST ROCKS. Mica-schist is a rock composed essentially of quartz and mica, usually either muscovite or biotite. The mica is the prominent mineral, occurring in irregular leaves and in foliated masses. An interesting variety is the conglomerate-mica-schist, in which the rock contains pebbles of quartz, granite, and other rocks which are very apt to be flattened, lenticular, or drawn out by pressure and shearing. It is closely related to the conglomerate-gneiss previously described and has had a similar origin.
Phyllite is a foliated metamorphic rock that is made up mainly of very fine-grained mica. The surface of phyllite is typically lustrous and sometimes wrinkled. It is intermediate in grade between slate and schist. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. Pictures of Foliated and Non-Foliated Rock Types. Amphibolite is a non-foliated metamorphic rock that forms through recrystallization under conditions of high viscosity and directed pressure. It is composed primarily of hornblende (amphibole) and plagioclase, usually with very little quartz.