Symptoms of UTI. Symptoms of UTI depend upon what part of the urinary tract is infected. Lower UTIs are infections of the urethra and bladder. Their symptoms include: 1  burning with urination. 2  increased frequency of urination with scant amounts of urine being passed. 3  bloody urine. 4  cloudy urine. 5  urine that looks like cola or tea
Male urinary system. A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection in any part of your urinary system — your kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Most infections involve the lower urinary tract — the bladder and the urethra. Women are at greater risk of developing a UTI than men are. Infection limited to your bladder can be painful and annoying. However, serious consequences can occur if a UTI spreads to your kidneys.
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection of any part of the urinary system. 2 Most infections involve the lower urinary tract. The urinary tract is comprised of the bladder, kidneys, ureters and urethra. Urinary tract infections are the second most common type of infection in the body and account for around 8.1 million visits to health care providers each year. The urinary tract is a system in the body for removing waste and excess water.1 It consists of the bladder, the kidneys, the ureters and the urethra.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are among the most common infections in people, and antibiotic treatment is usually helpful in treating an infection. Your healthcare professional will be able to determine if you or your child has a UTI and what antibiotic is needed. 
If you're a woman, your chance of getting a urinary tract infection, or UTI, is high; some experts rank your lifetime risk of getting one as high as 1 in 2 -- with many women having repeat infections, sometimes for years on end. 
Symptoms from a lower urinary tract include painful urination and either frequent urination or urge to urinate (or both); while the symptoms of pyelonephritis include fever and flank pain in addition to the symptoms of a lower UTI. In young children, the only symptom of a urinary tract infection (UTI) may be a fever. Because of the lack of more obvious symptoms, when females under the age of two or uncircumcised males less than a year exhibit a fever, a culture of the urine is recommended by many medical associations.
Lower urinary tract infection is also referred to as a bladder infection. The most common symptoms are burning with urination and having to urinate frequently (or an urge to urinate) in the absence of vaginal discharge and significant pain. In young children, the only symptom of a urinary tract infection (UTI) may be a fever. Because of the lack of more obvious symptoms, when females under the age of two or uncircumcised males less than a year exhibit a fever, a culture of the urine is recommended by many medical associations.
Urinary tract infections don't always cause signs and symptoms, but when they do they may include: 1  A strong, persistent urge to urinate. 2  A burning sensation when urinating. 3  Passing frequent, small amounts of urine. 4  Urine that appears cloudy. 5  Urine that appears red, bright pink or cola-colored — a sign of blood in the urine. 
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection involving the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra. These are the structures that urine passes through before being eliminated from the body. As a rule, the farther up in the urinary tract the infection is located, the more serious it is. 1  The upper urinary tract is composed of the kidneys and ureters. 2  The lower urinary tract consists of the bladder and the urethra.
Most urinary tract infections are bladder infections. A bladder infection usually is not serious if it is treated right away. If you do not take care of a bladder infection, it can spread to your kidneys. A kidney infection is serious and can cause permanent damage. 