Basalt is pretty common on Earth, and there is also a lot of basalt on the Moon, and on other planets including Mars and Venus. Like granite, basalt is a very hard rock. Because it is a common rock and so hard, people used basalt for early choppers and for grinding stones for grinding grains like millet and barley. When the lava cools quickly, it turns into basalt. Usually basalt is black or gray. Basalt is a mixture of feldspar and pyroxene, a rock made mainly of silica and oxygen.
Basalt is used for a wide variety of purposes. It is most commonly crushed for use as an aggregate in construction projects. Crushed basalt is used for road base, concrete aggregate, asphalt pavement aggregate, railroad ballast, filter stone in drain fields and may other purposes. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.
Rockhound. Basalt is an igneous rock that forms from the relatively rapid solidification of basaltic lavas; that is, those magmas that are relatively high in iron and magnesium, and low in silica and aluminum. These features give basalt its dark color and higher relative density when compared to silicate igneous rocks. Basalt is defined as an igneous rock that contains less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. On Earth, most basalt magmas have formed by decompression melting of the mantle.
Basalt is a fine-grained, hard rock that forms when bits of lava shoot out of volcanoes, so it's one kind of igneous rock. When the lava cools quickly, it turns into basalt. Usually basalt is black or gray. Basalt is a mixture of feldspar and pyroxene, a rock made mainly of silica and oxygen.
Basalt is the most common volcanic rock: It is formed as the volcanic magma erupts onto the surface or even in the water and undergoes a rapid cooling process. It has varying shades of grey to black. The fast cooling process makes the creation of the minerals almost invisible, making it a fine-grained substance. Today, basalt is used to a lot of things. Most common use of. is as aggregates. Basalts that are crushed are used for construction purposes, like asphalt paving, concrete aggregate and rock filtering agents.
By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals. Basalt is one of the most common rock types in the world. Basalt is the rock most typical of large igneous provinces. The largest occurrences of basalt are in the ocean floor that is almost completely made up by basalt.
basalt. Basalt and related rock types like andesite and dacite are rocks that form when volcanoes erupt magma (lava) onto the surface of the earth and the magma cools. Basalt flows in Hawaii. Click on image for enlargement. Basalts come in a wide variety of textures and colors. Some have vesicles (gas bubbles), some don't. Some are gray, others are reddish or even greenish. Basalt is one of the most common rock types on Earth. Except for the coral, all of the rocks of Hawaii are basalts.
Basalt a mafic extrusive rock, is the most widespread of all igneous rocks, and comprises more than 90% of all volcanic rocks. Because of its relatively low silica content, basalt lava has a comparatively low viscosity, and forms thin flows that can travel long distances. It is also found as intrusive dikes and sills. 
/bəˈsɔːlt/ , /ˈbaesɒlt/ , /ˈbæsɒlt/ , ˈbaesɔːlt /ˈbæsɔːlt/) or ˈbeɪsɔːlt is a common (extrusive) igneous volcanic rock formed from the rapid cooling of basaltic lava exposed at or very near the surface of a planet. Or moon flood basalt describes the formation in a series of lava. basalt flows Basalt is one of the most common rock types in the world. Basalt is the rock most typical of large igneous provinces. The largest occurrences of basalt are in the ocean floor that is almost completely made up by basalt.
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.