There are several different types of dairy products on the market, which are defined as foods made from the milk of animals. The most popular made from cow’s milk are pasteurized or raw milk, cheese, and butter. Yogurt and ice cream are also considered to be popular dairy products. Butter is made from the fat of milk, typically that which comes from cow’s milk. Like cheese, it is a popular staple throughout the world, and many areas are well-known for the type of butter that it produces.
Types of Breast Milk. The first stage of milk that develops during pregnancy is called colostrum. Thick and yellow in color, colostrum lasts a few days after the baby is born. This milk is rich in protein, antibodies, vitamins and minerals. Approximately two to four days after the baby is born, transitional milk replaces colostrum.
Skimmed milk/non-fat milk: This type of milk has as much fat removed as possible. It may not contain more than 0.5% milk fat by weight, and usually contains less than 0.5 gm of fat per cup, deriving just 5% of its calories from fat. Skimmed milk has about half the calories of whole milk. Types of milk based on fat content. Milk is processed on the basis of the maximum content of fat and solid not fat (SNF) it would ultimately possess. Standardized milk-This is made by combining buffalo milk and skimmed milk. The fat percentage is maintained at 4.5% while the SNF is 8.5%.
There is a variety and choice to fit every age and lifestyle. The primary types of milk sold in stores are: whole milk, reduced-fat milk (2%), low-fat milk (1%), and fat-free milk. The percentages included in the names of the milk indicate how much fat is in the milk by weight. Whole milk is 3.5% milk fat and is the closest to the way it comes from the cow before processing. All of these milks contain the nine essential nutrients found in whole milk but less fat. The United States government sets minimum standards for fluid milk that is produced and sold. Reduced fat milks have all of the nutrients of full fat milk; no water is added to these types of milk.
Milk is a white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals. It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food. Early-lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the mother's antibodies to its young and can reduce the risk of many diseases. Milk contains many other nutrients and the carbohydrate lactose. 
There is a variety and choice to fit every age and lifestyle. The primary types of milk sold in stores are: whole milk, reduced-fat milk (2%), low-fat milk (1%), and fat-free milk. The percentages included in the names of the milk indicate how much fat is in the milk by weight. Whole milk is 3.5% milk fat and is the closest to the way it comes from the cow before processing. Consumers that want to cut calories and fat have multiple options; reduced-fat milk contains 2% milk fat and low-fat milk contains 1% milk fat. Fat-free milk, also called nonfat or skim, contains no more than 0.2% milk fat. All of these milks contain the nine essential nutrients found in whole milk but less fat.
Consumers that want to cut calories and fat have multiple options; reduced-fat milk contains 2% milk fat and low-fat milk contains 1% milk fat. Fat-free milk, also called nonfat or skim, contains no more than 0.2% milk fat. All of these milks contain the nine essential nutrients found in whole milk but less fat. The United States government sets minimum standards for fluid milk that is produced and sold. Reduced fat milks have all of the nutrients of full fat milk; no water is added to these types of milk.
Whole milk contains at least 3.25% milk fat (M.F.), which is lighter than cream but has more body than lower fat milk. When a portion of the milk’s fat is removed, it becomes partly skimmed milk, such as 2% milk and 1% milk, depending on the quantity removed. Skim milk is virtually fat-free, with only about 0.1% fat. 
Milk Proteins: There are several types of proteins in milk. The major milk proteins are unique to milk. - not found in any other tissue Milk proteins, particularly caseins, have an appropriate amino acid composition for growth and development of the young. The total protein component of milk is composed of numerous specific proteins. The primary group of milk proteins are the caseins. There are 3 or 4 caseins in the milk of most species; the different caseins are distinct molecules but are similar in structure.