A total of 442 Listeria isolates, including 234 Listeria seeligeri, 80 L. monocytogenes, 74 L. welshimeri, 50 L. innocua, and 4 L. marthii isolates, were obtained from 1,805 soil, water, and other environmental samples collected over 2 years from four urban areas and four areas representing natural environments.
Listeria monocytogenes can adhere to different types of food contact surfaces within a food processing environment. Therefore, environmental sampling devices should be capable of detecting unacceptable contamination.
Listeria monocytogenes is the only Listeria that is pathogenic. As of yet it has not been the cause of any known sprout related outbreaks. However, because of its history and lethality, it is a bacterium that all food handling facilities should be aware of.
Listeriosis is a disease caused by infection with a gram-positive, rod-shaped bacterium called Listeria monocytogenes. 1  Listeria monocytogenes is ubiquitous, and it is usually found in soil, water, and decaying vegetation. 2  Many farm animals and other domestic and wild animals can harbor the bacterium.
Listeriosis is food poisoning caused by eating foods contaminated with the Listeria monocytogenes (L. monocytogenes) bacterium. In pregnant women, the infection can result in miscarriage, premature delivery, serious infection of the newborn, or even stillbirth.
As previous mentioned, L. monocytogenes can adhere quickly to different types of surfaces. This attachment can be influenced by the type of surface [ 32, 33 ], but other extrinsic factors such as attachment period and the broth used for inoculation may influence the degree of attachment as well [ 34, 35 ].
Listeria (pronounced liss-STEER-ē-uh) is a gram-positive rod-shaped bacterium that can grow under either anaerobic (without oxygen) or aerobic (with oxygen) conditions. [4, 18] Of the six species of Listeria, only L. monocytogenes (pronounced maw-NO-site-aw-JUH-neez) causes disease in humans.
Listeriosis is a serious infection caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes. Listeriosis is primarily affects pregnant women, newborns, and adults with weakened immune systems. Listeriosis symptoms often look like other kinds of illnesses.