The crispy looking brown edges can indicate a number of different problems and should be evaluated by a veterinarian. Do not assume because the opossum has crispy looking brown edges on the tips of its ears that it must have “Crispy Ear”. Thus DSN is tissue death resulting from a systemic infection. Bacteria can enter the body a number of ways. A broken tooth with pulp chamber exposed is a common mode of bacterial entry. The bacterial infection can spread throughout the opossum’s system and lead to necrosis of the tip of the ear, digits and tail.
“Crispy Ear” is not the best name for such a disease because the crispy, crust brown tipped ear edges do not always mean the opossum has “Crispy Ear” and it also does not affect just the ears. Not all opossums with crispy brown-tipped ears have “Crispy Ear”. Thus DSN is tissue death resulting from a systemic infection. Bacteria can enter the body a number of ways. A broken tooth with pulp chamber exposed is a common mode of bacterial entry. The bacterial infection can spread throughout the opossum’s system and lead to necrosis of the tip of the ear, digits and tail.
Subcutaneous emphysema is when gas or air is in the layer under the skin. Subcutaneous refers to the tissue beneath the skin, and emphysema refers to trapped air. In cases of subcutaneous emphysema around the neck, there may be a feeling of fullness in the neck, and the sound of the voice may change. If SCE is particularly extreme around the neck and chest, the swelling can interfere with breathing.
The crispy edges can indicate frostbite, a local, topical bacterial infection or a fungal infection. “Crispy Ear”, also known as Dermal Septic Necrosis (DSN), is a name given to a serious, life-threatening systemic infection. Thus DSN is tissue death resulting from a systemic infection. Bacteria can enter the body a number of ways. A broken tooth with pulp chamber exposed is a common mode of bacterial entry. The bacterial infection can spread throughout the opossum’s system and lead to necrosis of the tip of the ear, digits and tail.
The term crispy ear refers to the most common form of Dermal Septic Necrosis (DSN), the proper name for this disease syndrome. The original article (please see Possum Tales Vol 6, No.1) discusses its general pathogenesis; both describe the appearance of lesions in its various forms. There are two forms of the condition:  1 wet form, with well-demarcated subepidermal seromatous bullae on the margins.  2 dry form, is more typically seen, and may have an insidious course over weeks or months. 3  is essentially identical to the dry form on the pinna and may affect any length from the tip proximally. 4  is also essentially as in the ...
It is sometimes abbreviated SCE or SE and also called tissue emphysema, or Sub Q air. Since the air generally comes from the chest cavity, subcutaneous emphysema usually occurs on the chest, neck and face, where it is able to travel from the chest cavity along the fascia. In cases of subcutaneous emphysema around the neck, there may be a feeling of fullness in the neck, and the sound of the voice may change. If SCE is particularly extreme around the neck and chest, the swelling can interfere with breathing.
Adele telling the story of some fanmail she recently got. How hilariously dirty. Crispy Tissue. 1  Entertainment. 
Collenchyma tissue is made up of elongated living cells filled with water, and the pressure of the water against the cell walls creates a stiffness that gives celery its crunch. Collenchyma is found in plant stems, leaves and flowers. When we eat a piece of celery, we are eating the stem, or petiole of the plant. (see Fig. 1). The crunchiness of the stalk is due to the types of cells that are contained in celery tissue. Fig. 1 The crunchy part of the celery that we eat is the stem of the plant. Image from Thome. Thomé flora Von, Österreich oesterreich österreich Und. der. schweiz 1885
Crispy Butter Murukku Recipe, a crispy and buttery murukku made from rice flour and besan. Murukku is one of our fav snack which we make often with different variations. But, i never tried adding besan. I saw this recipe in one of my Tamil cookbook and made slight variations. 1 Roast besan flour for a min and remove from the heat. 2  Combine besan, rice flour, urad dal flour, chili powder, asofoetida and salt in a wide mixing bowl. 3  Add butter and make crumbles. 4  Add enough warm water and knead to smooth dough. 5  Sprinkle hot oil and knead again. 6  Close it and keep aside.