The American Medical Association (AMA) considers general pediatrics to be a specialized field; however, they begin the education process with the same training as general practitioners. This process consists of four years of college, four years of medical school and, finally, a residency that lasts between 3-8 years. Pediatric physicians must have general medical knowledge and an understanding of how treatments affect different developmental growth stages. Pediatricians must complete four years of college, four years of medical school and a 3- to 8-year residency.
1 You would need a medical degree to start and then go on to specialize with further training in pediatrics. 2  Pediatricians need 4 years of undergraduate school followed by four more years of medical school, followed by 3 years of internship and residency. 1 What this means is that you must have a 4-year undergraduate degree and a degree from an accredited medical school or college. 2  That is 8 years of higher education. 3  You then have your residency period, which is a hands on training period where you are supervised by other doctors. 4  That is either a 3 or 4 year period.
1 An MD or DO, a medical degree. 2  Pediatricians are doctors. 3  You would need a medical degree to start and then go on to specialize with further training in pediatrics. 4  Pediatricians need 4 years of undergraduate school followed by four more years of medical school, followed by 3 years of internship and residency. 1 What this means is that you must have a 4-year undergraduate degree and a degree from an accredited medical school or college. 2  That is 8 years of higher education. 3  You then have your residency period, which is a hands on training period where you are supervised by other doctors. 4  That is either a 3 or 4 year period.
It takes 4 years of undergraduate education, 4 years of medical school, and 3 years of pediatric residency to become a general pediatrician, totaling at least 11 years. Further, most fellowship subspecialties last 3 years, increasing the time spent in training to about 14 years overall. 
Best Answer: To become a pediatrician, you'll need four years of medical school and at least three years of residency (on-the-job training) in addition to a bachelor's degree. Pediatricians specialize in areas such as the heart problems of children so you might be in school longer. To be a pediatrician, you need a 4-year college degree in something (major in whatever you want, as long as you take the pre-med course sequence consisting of biology, chemistry, physics and math), 4 years of medical school, and a 3-year residency.
Pediatric Residency. After you graduate from medical school, you'll need to complete a residency in a clinical setting. In this program, you'll receive hands-on training under the supervision of experienced pediatricians. To be accepted into a medical school program, you must take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and submit transcripts and letters of recommendation to the college. Many schools also have an interview process.
1 4 years of college. 2  4 years of medical school. 3  3 years of general pediatric training in a hospitals. 4  1 &endash;3 years (usually) of special pediatric training (called a subspecialty). 5  There are currently 12 different subspecialties. 6  There are other special training programs for pediatricians, too. 
To become a pediatrician, you'll need training in general medicine throughout most of your undergraduate and graduate education. Specialization in pediatric healthcare begins during your residency. To be accepted into a medical school program, you must take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and submit transcripts and letters of recommendation to the college. Many schools also have an interview process.
Education General-As a Pediatrician, you will ALWAYS be learning! After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (which will get you a BS, BA, or other Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medical School (which will get you an MD or DO degree). After this, you are a general doctor. Most of the time, these new doctors go on to learn a specialty in medicine, such as pediatrics. This entails at least 3 more years of Residency training (the first year of residency was formerly called an Internship).