The Legion of Boom is a term for the secondary (safeties and cornerbacks) of the Seattle Seahawks since 2011. The current starting players are cornerback Richard Sherman as well as safeties Kam Chancellor and Earl Thomas.
From time to time, stagehands need to be able to read a light plot. For most shows this skill is not needed; the show carries its own lighting setup and the show lighting director or electrician deals with the proper locating of the instruments to be used.
1. to make a deep prolonged resonant sound, as of thunder or artillery fire. 2. (Commerce) to prosper or cause to prosper vigorously and rapidly: business boomed. n. 3. a deep prolonged resonant sound: the boom of the sea.
1 Trim heights to boom positions measure from bottom of the boom base to the side arm or clamp. 2  Identification (labeling) of hanging/mounting positions. 3  The legend or instrument key designating symbol type and notation in the light plot.
4. LIFT ANGLE-This chart illustrates the maximum lift if a luffing or fixed jib is used. Lifts with jib lengths of 32 and 49 feet (in addition to boom extension of 105 feet) are illustrated. With higher angles of lift, the maximum load capacity decreases.
http://www.unpluggedguitar.com. Another from my old archives. Not really John Lee but if you're new to this, it's a good way to start messing with the vibe. A lot of that ZZ Top sound in this one. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License.
The plot may consist of more than a single drawing, or plate. When possible, the size and positions of all hanging positions should be drawn to scale, although it frequently becomes necessary (for reasons of space) to compress the distance between Front-of-House positions and the stage.
Of course, the Seahawks defense known as the Legion of Boom will lead Seattle into Super Bowl XLIX hoping to shut down New England in a bid to become the first repeat champion since the Patriots 10 years ago. A shared respect for grit is one piece of the cross-generational connection.
1 Trim (height) measurements for movable mounting positions should read from the stage level surface (or other common point of reference) to the pipe (or mounting position). 2  Trim heights to boom positions measure from bottom of the boom base to the side arm or clamp.