From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lake Tarpon is a freshwater lake located about 10 miles (16 km) west of Tampa in Palm Harbor and Tarpon Springs, Florida. Lake Tarpon is the largest lake in Pinellas County with a surface area of 2,500 acres (10 km 2). Its watershed encompasses 52 square miles (130 km 2) including the two largest tributaries, South Creek and Brooker Creek. Lake Tarpon can be visited at Anderson Park, Chesnut Park, or several other public access points.
Welcome to the Lake Tarpon Information Center. Serving the interests of Lake Tarpon for 14 years. Lake Tarpon, the Jewel of Pinellas County  is located about 10 miles West of Tampa in Palm Harbor and Tarpon Springs Florida. This 2,500 acre lake provides recreation and enjoyment for thousands in the Tampa Bay area. 
For many years Lake Tarpon has held the Florida state record for largemouth bass that was caught using a wild shiner for bait. The lake is nearly nine miles from end to end, covering a total over 2,500 acres. Surrounded with houses and resorts there are lots of fishing opportunities. Lake Thonotosassa and Edward Medard Reservoir, both located near the Tampa area, offer adverage bass fishing. But Lake Tarpon is located a little farther away to the north side of Tampa.
Lake Tarpon is a freshwater lake located about 10 miles (16 km) west of Tampa in Palm Harbor and Tarpon Springs, Florida. Lake Tarpon is the largest lake in Pinellas County with a surface area of 2,500 acres (10 km 2). Its watershed encompasses 52 square miles (130 km 2) including the two largest tributaries, South Creek and Brooker Creek. Lake Tarpon can be visited at Anderson Park, Chesnut Park, or several other public access points.
Lake Tarpon. Pinellas County. Lake Tarpon is a 2,534-acre Fish Management Area near Tarpon Springs, in Pinellas County. Although the largemouth bass population and size structure is excellent, fishing pressure is relatively low. Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) fisheries biologists regularly sample bass during electrofishing surveys on this lake.
This is the one real opportunity to create a large body of freshwater in Pinellas County.. THE FLORIDA Game and Freshwater Fish Commission, contending the inflow of brackish water from the bayou in Tarpon Springs benefits fish in the lake, opposed the project. The possibility of Lake Tarpon becoming a fresh water lake might not be so bright if we find there is other sinkholes in Lake Tarpon, Cherry said. The plans for the dam were made by the Southwest Florida Water Management District with the idea that only one connection was between these two bodies of water.
The canal and its water-control structure were completed in 1971 to help regulate flooding around Lake Tarpon and the lower sections of Brooker Creek. The structure prevents salt water from entering Lake Tarpon during high tides and protects the lake’s freshwater ecology. 1 Access north of water-control structure in the freshwater portion of canal is via Lake Tarpon. 2  Public boat ramps located at Anderson and John Chesnut Sr. county parks. 3  Access south of water-control structure in saltwater portion of canal is from Safety Harbor.
Lake Tarpon BASS ONLINE 2015-04-23T14:21:09+00:00. You will find a number of bass lakes within reach of the city of Tampa. Lake Thonotosassa and Edward Medard Reservoir, both located near the Tampa area, offer adverage bass fishing. But Lake Tarpon is located a little farther away to the north side of Tampa. But is regarded as one of the top bass fishing lakes in Florida, boasting healthy populations of largemouth bass, bluegill and crappie. Lake Tarpon is situated in North Pinellas County just a few miles from the city of Tarpon Springs
In fact, Lake Tarpon is rated one of the Top 10 bass lakes in the state of Florida by FWC fisheries biologists. Primary largemouth bass fishing areas are found among the weeds which rim the shoreline. Bulrush (buggy whips), cattail, and tape grass beds are good places to try. Although the largemouth bass population and size structure is excellent, fishing pressure is relatively low. Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) fisheries biologists regularly sample bass during electrofishing surveys on this lake.
Lake Tarpon is rated among the top 10 bass fishing lakes in Florida and fishing is an always-popular activity. Bluegill, red-ear, and largemouth bass make up the majority of fish caught, although black crappie, bullhead, channel catfish, longnose gar and bowfin (mudfish or dogfish) are also present. The 2529-acre lake, often called the 'Jewel of Pinellas County' is only ten miles west of Tampa on the outskirts of Tarpon Springs. Long a favored Florida recreation area, Lake Tarpon is interesting in its underground connection to the Gulf of Mexico via Spring Bayou in