Cajun Food. The word “Cajun” originates from the term “les Acadians,” which was used to describe French colonists who settled in the Acadia region of Canada which consisted of present-day New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia. Like the people, Creole food is a blend of the various cultures of New Orleans including Italian, Spanish, African, German, Caribbean, Native American, and Portuguese, to name a few. Creole cuisine is thought of as a little higher brow or aristocratic compare to Cajun
: a person of mixed French or Spanish and black descent speaking a dialect of French or Spanish. 4. a: a language evolved from pidginized French that is spoken by blacks in southern Louisiana b: haitian c not capitalized: a language that has evolved from a pidgin but serves as the native language of a speech community. Full Definition of CREOLE. 1. often capitalized: of or relating to Creoles or their language. 2.
1. A person of European ancestry born in the West Indies or Spanish America. 2. a. A person descended from or culturally related to the original French settlers of the southern United States, especially Louisiana. b. The French dialect spoken by these people. 3. Creole. n. 1. (Peoples) a native-born person of European, esp Spanish, ancestry. 2. (Peoples) a native-born person of mixed European and African ancestry who speaks a French or Spanish creole. 3. (Peoples) (in Louisiana and other Gulf States of the US) a native-born person of French ancestry.
A vastly simplified way to describe the two cuisines is to deem Creole cuisine as “city food” while Cajun cuisine is often referred to as “country food.” While many of the ingredients in Cajun and Creole dishes are similar, the real difference between the two styles is the people behind these famous cuisines. Like the people, Creole food is a blend of the various cultures of New Orleans including Italian, Spanish, African, German, Caribbean, Native American, and Portuguese, to name a few. Creole cuisine is thought of as a little higher brow or aristocratic compare to Cajun
3. A person descended from or culturally related to the Spanish and Portuguese settlers of the Gulf States. 4. often creole A person of mixed African and European ancestry who speaks a creolized language, especially one based on French or Spanish. 5. A black slave born in the Americas as opposed to one brought from Africa. Creole. n. 1. (Peoples) a native-born person of European, esp Spanish, ancestry. 2. (Peoples) a native-born person of mixed European and African ancestry who speaks a French or Spanish creole. 3. (Peoples) (in Louisiana and other Gulf States of the US) a native-born person of French ancestry.
The food in South Louisiana is often called Cajun or Creole.. With the growing popularity of Louisiana cuisine, these terms have often become confused. 
Creole cuisine revolves around influences found in Louisiana from populations present in Louisiana before the sale of Louisiana to the United States in the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. Rice proved to be a valuable commodity in creole cuisine. With an abundance of water and a hot, humid climate, rice could be grown practically anywhere in the region and grew wild in some areas. Rice became the predominant starch in the diet, easy to grow, store and prepare.
Creole Food. The term “Creole” describes the population of people who were born to settlers in French colonial Louisiana, specifically in New Orleans. In the 18th century Creoles consisted of the descendants of the French and Spanish upper class that ruled the city. Like the people, Creole food is a blend of the various cultures of New Orleans including Italian, Spanish, African, German, Caribbean, Native American, and Portuguese, to name a few. Creole cuisine is thought of as a little higher brow or aristocratic compare to Cajun
Top Definition. creole. a person or persons of varied afro-anglo-french-spanish ancestry residing in louisiana. the art, food, language, music, and history of creole people. french/spanish language and culture unique to louisiana. from the spanish criollo, meaning 'a local'. creole music rocks