Mark Donovan of http://www.HomeAdditionPlus.com shows how to easily and cleanly cut cement backer board. Cutting cement backerboard for different types of holes is easy to do with the right tools. Use a scoring knife, a jigsaw, and drill bit to cut cement backerboard. Just make sure you wear eye protection when cutting cement backerboard or drilling cement backer board.
Holding the board up prevents the edge from sitting in any water. Cutting backer board, especially if it’s a gypsum-core backer board, is done with a simple razor knife. The surface is scored with the razor, and you then snap the board creating a clean line. The razor is then used to cut the fiberglass backing. It’s the same procedure used to cut regular drywall. If you’re installing your backer board in a shower or tub, don’t allow the board to come into contact with the concrete shower pan or the tub ledge. I prefer to hold up the backer board one-quarter inch off tub ledges and one-half inch off a concrete substrate in a poured shower.
Best Answer: You can score it. You must score it deep with a cement board scoring tool (available where you bought the board), move it to a straight edge and snap it. You will probably have to cut the embedded fiberglass mesh with a utility knife, no big deal. The power saw is extremely dusty
A 3 x 5–foot sheet of 1/4-inch backer board costs between $9 and $11; the same-size sheet in 1/2 inch costs about $12 to $14. The one challenge DIYers face when working with cement backer board is how to cut the rock-hard panels. Fortunately, there are a few different options. Here's how to use the scoring tool: Lay the backer board on a flat surface and mark the cut line with a carpenter's pencil. (A regular pencil will become too dull from drawing lines on such a hard surface.) Set a straightedge, such as a 4-foot level or perfectly straight board, on the cut line.
You can also cut backer board with an angle grinder fitted with a diamond-impregnated cutting wheel, but this tool produces a lot of dust and is harder to control than a circular saw, so use caution. And although I've never tried it myself, you can cut backer board using a wet saw, which is designed for cutting tile. Here's how to use the scoring tool: Lay the backer board on a flat surface and mark the cut line with a carpenter's pencil. (A regular pencil will become too dull from drawing lines on such a hard surface.) Set a straightedge, such as a 4-foot level or perfectly straight board, on the cut line.
Score-and-Snap. The simplest way to cut cement backer board is to score the surface and snap the sheet along the scored line, similar to the way you'd cut drywall. In fact, you can use a drywall utility knife to score backer board, but a better option is a carbide-tipped scoring tool. Here's how to use the scoring tool: Lay the backer board on a flat surface and mark the cut line with a carpenter's pencil. (A regular pencil will become too dull from drawing lines on such a hard surface.) Set a straightedge, such as a 4-foot level or perfectly straight board, on the cut line.
To make curved cuts or circular cutouts in backer board, you have a couple of options. You could drill a series of holes along the cut line and then tap out the waste with a hammer. While that technique works, it creates quite a mess and leaves a ragged edge. Straight cuts in cement backer board can be made using a circular saw. I just remodeled one of our bathrooms, which included tiling the floor with 12”x 12” Turkish tumbled marble.
cutting hardi board. I guess that depends a lot on your definition of best. You're SUPPOSED to be able to cut cement board much like drywall; you just score through the fiberglass mesh on one side, snap along the score line and then cut through the mesh on the other side. Generally, a carbide-tipped knife, is the best method for manual cutting of the boards. However: I still prefer to use a skill saw with carbide tipped blade, that gets tossed when done with the installation. I also use a carbide-dusted jig saw blade (tile cutting blade) for off-angle, or circular cuts.
One of the easiest techniques used to cut cement backer board is to score the sheet and then snap it along the cut line. Lay your cement board flat, and draw a line with a carpenter’s pencil where you intend to cut. 
Cement backer board can be cut with a carbide-tipped scoring tool, just score and snap the sheet, similar to cutting drywall. But since I had several cuts to make, I decided to use power tools. Straight cuts in cement backer board can be made using a circular saw. I just remodeled one of our bathrooms, which included tiling the floor with 12”x 12” Turkish tumbled marble.