Of or relating to a trait that is expressed only when the determining allele is present in the homozygous condition. n. Genetics. 1. A recessive allele or trait. 2. An organism having a recessive trait. In an organism having two different genes for a trait, the recessive form is suppressed by its counterpart, or dominant, form located on the other of a pair of chromosomes. See more at inheritance.
Individuals receive one version of a gene, called an allele, from each parent. Recessive. Type of allele of a gene, which is only express ed when in the homozygous form. View Dr Chromo's lecture on 'Generalities on genetics '. ~ allele: an allele that only has an effect on the phenotype when present in the homozygous state. Codominant alleles: pairs of alleles that both affect the phenotype when present in a heterozygote. Locus: the particular position on homologous chromosomes of a gene. ~ Refers to an allele of a gene that is express ed when the dominant allele is not present. An allele express ed only in homozygous form, when the dominant allele is absent
Recessive trait. Definition. noun. (genetics) A genetic trait that results from the expression of the two recessive alleles. Supplement. When the dominant allele is lacking or when the two alleles present are both recessive, their expression results in a recessive trait. Also called: 1  recessive character.
Another way to define a recessive trait is one that is never expressed by the heterozygous genotype. For example, the heterozygous genotype for earlobe type (Ee) produces detached earlobes because the dominant allele (E) hides the effects of the recessive allele (e). A recessive trait is the phenotype that is seen only when a homozygous recessive genotype for the trait of interest is present. This means that an individual must have two recessive alleles for the gene that determines this trait of interest.
In genetics, referring to that allele of a gene that is not express ed in the phenotype when the dominant allele is present. Also refers to the phenotype of an individual (homozygote) carrying two recessive alleles. (Figure 8-1) ... ~ allele: an allele that only has an effect on the phenotype when present in the homozygous state. Codominant alleles: pairs of alleles that both affect the phenotype when present in a heterozygote. Locus: the particular position on homologous chromosomes of a gene. ~ Refers to an allele of a gene that is express ed when the dominant allele is not present. An allele express ed only in homozygous form, when the dominant allele is absent
(genetics) Of, or pertaining to, a gene (or allele) whose phenotypic expression is masked by a dominant gene (or allele). noun. (1) A recessive allele or trait. (2) An organism whose recessive trait is discernible or expressed. Supplement. In genetics, a recessive gene or allele is one in which the effect is not tangible, or is masked by the effects of the dominant gene. The recessive trait may be expressed when the recessive genes are in homozygous condition or when the dominant gene is not present. That happens when an organism inherits a pair of recessive genes from its parents. Word origin: Latin recess(us) , a withdrawal, receding part + - ive.
Relating to the form of a gene that is not expressed as a trait in an individual unless two such genes are inherited, one from each parent. In an organism having two different genes for a trait, the recessive form is suppressed by its counterpart, or dominant, form located on the other of a pair of chromosomes. See more at inheritance.
2. Genetics. a. pertaining to the allele of a gene pair whose effect is masked by the second allele when both are present in the same cell or organism. b. of or pertaining to the hereditary trait determined by such an allele. 3. Genetics. Compare dominant (def. 6). a. the recessive allele of a gene pair. In an organism having two different genes for a trait, the recessive form is suppressed by its counterpart, or dominant, form located on the other of a pair of chromosomes. See more at inheritance.
Recessive traits are those that are expressed or seen only when a homozygous recessive genotype is present. Homozygous recessive just means having two of the same recessive alleles. Remember, recessive alleles are masked by dominant alleles. A recessive trait is the phenotype that is seen only when a homozygous recessive genotype for the trait of interest is present. This means that an individual must have two recessive alleles for the gene that determines this trait of interest.