The employer should work out a plan with the citizen soldier employee in advance regarding notification of when their military duty is expected and for what length of time. If the employee has essential skills needed by the company, the deployment can sometimes be deferred to another date. If you are wondering if these challenges will present themselves to your business organization, consider what the Pentagon has reported: As of August 2005 more than 141,000 members of the United States National Guard and Reserve military forces have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan.
A-44: Generally, the gross income of an employee does not include employer-provided coverage under an accident or health plan or employer contributions to such plans. This exclusion from gross income extends to employees who are on military leave. A-43: Employees are encouraged to contact their employers and request that they seek a refund of the erroneously withheld FICA on the employees' behalf. Because employers also pay a portion of FICA that is not withheld from payments to the employee, the employer will also be entitled to a refund.
1 Short-notice deployment. 2  The employee may take up to seven calendar days of leave to address issues arising from a family member's call to duty within seven days or fewer of deployment. 3  Military events and related activities. 1 Covered employees may take up to 26 weeks of leave in a single year to care for a family member who is seriously ill or injured while on active military duty.
The Oregon Military Family Leave Act (OMFLA) requires that an employer provide up to 14 days of leave to an employee who is the spouse or same-sex domestic partner of a member of the military forces that are on active duty. An employee who takes military family leave is entitled to be restored to a position of employment and to the continuation of benefits as provided in ORS 659A.171 just like an employee taking OFLA-protected leave.
1 The employee may take leave to attend counseling, including for a family member or family member's child. 2  Rest and recuperation. 3  The employee may take up to five days of leave to spend with a family member who is on short-term, temporary R&R leave during deployment. 1 Covered employees may take up to 26 weeks of leave in a single year to care for a family member who is seriously ill or injured while on active military duty.
On August 16, 2006, the New York State Legislature enacted a statute requiring private and public employers to provide up to 10 days of unpaid leave to employees whose spouses are on leave from the U.S. Armed Forces, National Guard, or Reserves, while deployed during a period of war. If you are wondering if these challenges will present themselves to your business organization, consider what the Pentagon has reported: As of August 2005 more than 141,000 members of the United States National Guard and Reserve military forces have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan.
Q-39: If an employee is called to active duty and receives military differential pay, how are these payments reported by the employer to the employee? A-39: Employers should report military differential pay as wages in box 1 of Form W-2. A-43: Employees are encouraged to contact their employers and request that they seek a refund of the erroneously withheld FICA on the employees' behalf. Because employers also pay a portion of FICA that is not withheld from payments to the employee, the employer will also be entitled to a refund.
While there are benefits in having a citizen soldier as an employee, employers must be prepared to address these difficult questions along with several others that flow from the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-Employment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA). If you are wondering if these challenges will present themselves to your business organization, consider what the Pentagon has reported: As of August 2005 more than 141,000 members of the United States National Guard and Reserve military forces have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan.
In order to take FMLA leave, you must first work for a covered employer. Generally, private employers with at least 50 employees are covered by the law. Private employers with fewer than 50 employees are not covered by the FMLA, but may be covered by state family and medical leave laws. The Employee’s Guide to the Family and Medical Leave Act 5 Expanding Your Family You may take FMLA leave for the birth of a child and to bond with the newborn child, or for the placement of a child for adoption or foster care and to bond with that child.
If you have an employee who is a member of the Reserve or National Guard, at some point in time he or she will take a leave from work for military training or deployment. As an employer, manager or supervisor, or human resource professional interacting with members of the Reserve or National Guard, you need to be familiar with the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) of 1994.