Cardiac muscle tissue is an extremely specialized form of muscle tissue that has evolved to pump blood throughout the body. In fact, cardiac muscle is only found in the heart and makes up the bulk of the heart’s mass.
As mentioned earlier, these discs connect the individual heart cells called cardiomyocytes to form the atrial syncitium. In fact, both intercalated discs and pacemaker cells are characteristic of cardiac muscle tissues. Similarly, these transverse bands and striations are characteristic of cardiac muscle.
Excitation in cardiac muscle. A number of specialised structures, which are composed of modified cardiac muscle cells, ensure that the contraction of the atria and ventricles takes place in the order that is most appropriate to the pumping function of the heart.
Like skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle contractions are strong, and utilise a great deal of energy. Like some smooth muscle, cardiac muscle can contract without nervous stimulation (i.e. it is myogenic) and this enables the heart to be transplanted.
Between the ends of adjacent cardiac muscle cells are specialised intercellular junctions called INTERCALATED DISCS (shown right). These are irregular transverse thickenings of the sarcolemma that contain structures called DESMOSOMES. Desmosomes are like spot-rivets, that hold adjacent cardiac muscle fibres together.
The cardiac muscle is normally found only in the heart. Here, the myocardial cells usually appear short, branched, and closely interconnected to form a continuous fabric. The cross-bands, however, get heavily stained between the adjacent cells during histological examination of the cardiac tissue.
Cardiac muscle 1 Cardiac muscle cardiac muscle Cardiac muscle is a type of involuntary striated muscle found in the walls and histologic foundation of the heart,specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal andsmooth muscle.
Cardiac muscle cells have a branched shape so that each cell is in contact with three of four other cardiac muscle cells. Together all of the cardiac muscle cells in the heart form a giant network connected end to end.
Mitochondria are more numerous in cardiac muscle cells than in skeletal muscle, and the T-Tubules are continuous with the cell membrane. These carry action potentials into the cell interior and are well developed in the ventricles of the heart, but poorly developed in both atria.