Triglycerides and cholesterol are separate types of lipids that circulate in your blood. Triglycerides store unused calories and provide your body with energy, and cholesterol is used to build cells and certain hormones. Because triglycerides and cholesterol can't dissolve in blood, they circulate throughout your body with the help of proteins that transport the lipids (lipoproteins).
Triglycerides are a type of fat found in your blood. Your body uses them for energy. You need some triglycerides for good health. But high triglycerides might raise your risk of heart disease and may be a sign of metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is the combination of high blood pressure, high blood sugar, too much fat around the waist, low HDL (good) cholesterol, and high triglycerides. Metabolic syndrome increases your risk for heart disease, diabetes, and stroke. A blood test that measures your cholesterol also measures your triglycerides. For a general idea about your triglycerides level, compare your test results to the following: 1  Normal is less than 150.
Triglycerides are the most common form of fat in the body and the most common that we digest. They are the main ingredient in vegetable oils and animal fats. The triglyceride molecule is a form of the chemical glycerol (tri=three molecules of fatty acid + glyceride=glycerol) that contains three fatty acids. To be absorbed, these parts are broken apart in the small intestine, and afterwards are reassembled with cholesterol to form chylomicrons. 1 The triglyceride test measures the level of triglycerides in the blood. 2  Fasting for 9 to 12 hours before the triglyceride test is required. 3  Elevated triglyceride levels may be a risk factor for atherosclerosis. 4  Highly elevated triglyceride levels may also cause fatty liver disease and pancreatitis.
Triglycerides and lowering triglyceride levels. Good cholesterol, bad cholesterol, saturated fat, and unsaturated fat-sometimes it seems like you need a programme to keep track of all the fatty players in the story of heart disease. In some ways, the molecules called triglycerides are the easiest to understand. Simply put, triglycerides are fat in the blood, and a high triglyceride level can increase the risk of heart disease. Just what your triglyceride levels mean and how much lowering triglycerides reduces heart disease risk is less clear. 
Triglycerides are an important measure of heart health. Here's why triglycerides matter — and what to do if your triglycerides are too high. If you've been keeping an eye on your blood pressure and cholesterol levels, there's something else you might need to monitor: your triglycerides. Triglycerides store unused calories and provide your body with energy, and cholesterol is used to build cells and certain hormones. Because triglycerides and cholesterol can't dissolve in blood, they circulate throughout your body with the help of proteins that transport the lipids (lipoproteins).
A triglyceride (TG, triacylglycerol, TAG, or triacylglyceride) is an ester derived from glycerol and three fatty acids. As a blood lipid, it helps enable the bidirectional transference of adipose fat and blood glucose from the liver. 
Triglycerides are a type of fat (lipid) found in your blood. When you eat, your body converts any calories it doesn't need to use right away into triglycerides. The triglycerides are stored in your fat cells. Later, hormones release triglycerides for energy between meals. Triglycerides store unused calories and provide your body with energy, and cholesterol is used to build cells and certain hormones. Because triglycerides and cholesterol can't dissolve in blood, they circulate throughout your body with the help of proteins that transport the lipids (lipoproteins).
How to Lower Triglycerides. Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood. High levels of triglycerides may raise the risk of coronary artery disease, especially in women. A person's triglyceride levels are measured with a blood test along with testing cholesterol levels in the blood. Normal triglycerides are below 150. 1 The triglyceride test measures the level of triglycerides in the blood. 2  Fasting for 9 to 12 hours before the triglyceride test is required. 3  Elevated triglyceride levels may be a risk factor for atherosclerosis. 4  Highly elevated triglyceride levels may also cause fatty liver disease and pancreatitis.
Borderline high triglycerides = 150 to 199 mg/dL. High triglycerides = 200 to 499 mg/dL. Very high triglycerides = 500 mg/dL or higher. High triglyceride levels may lead to heart disease, especially in people with low levels of good cholesterol and high levels of bad cholesterol, and in people with type 2 diabetes. Experts disagree, though, on just how bad of an effect high triglyceride levels by themselves have on the heart. Triglycerides are important to human life and are the main form of fat in the body. When you think of fat developing and being stored in your hips or belly, you're thinking of triglycerides. Consider these things: Triglycerides are the end product of digesting and breaking down fats in meals.