When it comes to the concept of ‘business function’ it is tempting to simply transplant the concept of ‘application function’ to the business domain, and use it to represent a type of ‘organisational functionality’ (i.e., a set of instructions carried out by personnel to change the state of an object). If it is the former than it is a part of the business architecture, if the later then it is not. The business function is: what a business unit (part of organization) should do (tasks/stages in the value stream) in order to realize a capability.
A Business Capability is not a Business Function, but is a concept that encapsulates other objects, in particular Actors (organisation units), Roles, Policies, Standards, Skills, Business Functions, Business Processes, Products, Business Services, Application Services, Application Components and Infrastructure. ArchiMate has the most clarity about Business Functions and Business Processes but doesn’t as yet define a Business Capability. One of the first artifacts to be produced as part of a Business Architecture model is a Target Operating Model. This is where definition issues are often first seen.
The term ‘business function’ is more commonly used to represent the logical level structure an organisation uses to control and manage its resources and processes (e.g., human resource management function, investment portfolio management function). If it is the former than it is a part of the business architecture, if the later then it is not. The business function is: what a business unit (part of organization) should do (tasks/stages in the value stream) in order to realize a capability.
I frequently find that there is much confusion about the modelling of Behaviour in an Enterprise Architecture model, specifically between the concepts of Business Capability, Business Function and Business Process. ArchiMate has the most clarity about Business Functions and Business Processes but doesn’t as yet define a Business Capability. One of the first artifacts to be produced as part of a Business Architecture model is a Target Operating Model. This is where definition issues are often first seen.
However, not only does this view betray a certain ‘software engineering’ centricity, it is also difficult to distinguish this view of business function from that of process related definitions (c.f., BPMN 2.0 definition of Task)[1]. If it is the former than it is a part of the business architecture, if the later then it is not. The business function is: what a business unit (part of organization) should do (tasks/stages in the value stream) in order to realize a capability.
Administration. The administration function of a business is a macro function that oversees all other functions. The administrative staff usually includes the CEO or president, COO -- chief operating officer -- and secretarial staff. This is the function through which corporate policies are made and communicated. 
Recently I was asked about the concepts of a Business Function and a Capability, and how it is unfortunate that these concepts tend to be blended together. The term “function” is used to describe a unit of business capability at all levels of granularity, encapsulating terms such as value chain, process area, capability, business function, etc. Any bounded unit of business function should be described as a function.
TOGAF9 defines a Function as: Function describes units of business capability at all levels of granularity. The term “function” is used to describe a unit of business capability at all levels of granularity, encapsulating terms such as value chain, process area, capability, business function, etc. Any bounded unit of business function should be described as a function.
Business Function. Business Function is an organisational perspective on behaviour. It is not the same as a Business Capability. A Business Function defines the ‘what’ behaviour that is associated with an organisational unit and modelled in a target operating model. ArchiMate has the most clarity about Business Functions and Business Processes but doesn’t as yet define a Business Capability. One of the first artifacts to be produced as part of a Business Architecture model is a Target Operating Model. This is where definition issues are often first seen.
Also referred to as “business function”. TOGAF9 defines a Capability as: A business-focused outcome that is delivered by the completion of one or more work packages. Using a capability-based planning approach, change activities can be sequenced and grouped in order to provide continuous and incremental business value. The term “function” is used to describe a unit of business capability at all levels of granularity, encapsulating terms such as value chain, process area, capability, business function, etc. Any bounded unit of business function should be described as a function.