An athletic male between the ages of 36 and 45 often has a resting heart rate of 50 to 56 beats per minute, while someone of the same age with below-average health can experience a rate of 76 to 82. This rate differs for men and women and varies according to other factors, such as your age and how active you are. Top End Sports notes a person's resting heart rate can often range from the high 40s to above 80 beats per minute.
A normal resting heart rate is generally considered to be 60-100 beats per minute. The exact number will vary among individuals. Children tend to have higher resting heart rates than adults. Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. Heart rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (because more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body during exercise).
Before we go on to answer this question, let us know what exactly is the heart rate. Well, heart rate is the number of contractions that the heart makes in a minute to pump the blood. On an average, healthy resting heart rate for men lies in the range of 65 to 70. In most cases, the normal resting heart for most people is usually around 72 beats per minute. 
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. But a heart rate lower than 60 doesn’t necessarily mean you have a medical problem. Active people often have lower heart rates because their heart muscles don't need to work as hard to maintain a steady beat. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate.
The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal. Bradycardia was defined as a heart rate less than 60 beats per minute when textbooks asserted that the normal range for heart rates was 60–100 BPM. The normal range has since been revised in textbooks to 50–90 BPM for a human at total rest.
While the normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60-100 beats per minute, conditioned athletes and other highly fit individuals might have normal resting heart rates of 40-60 beats per minute. 
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe.
The human heart beats approximately 70 to 85 times per minute in the average adult, with a notable difference between the genders. The average adult male heart rate is between 70 and 72 beats per minute, while there average for adult women is between 78 and 82 beats. This difference is largely accounted for by the size of the heart, which is typically smaller in females than male
An athletic male between the ages of 18 and 25 will often have a resting heart rate of 49 to 55 beats per minute. A person in this age group of below-average health might have a resting heart rate between 74 and 81 beats per minute, according to Top End Sports. Your resting heart rate will increase as you age, but keeping active can result in a lower resting heart rate than someone decades younger than you. This rate differs for men and women and varies according to other factors, such as your age and how active you are. Top End Sports notes a person's resting heart rate can often range from the high 40s to above 80