Significance. Ceiling height tops the list of desires that home buyers at the beginning of the 21st century want in a home. Younger buyers in their 20s and 30s are even more likely to want nine-or 10-foot ceilings than older buyers. The feel and look of a room can change dramatically based on ceiling height; the light, types of wall-hangings, doors and windows also can be affected by the ceiling. Changing ceiling heights have affected new home construction considerably in recent decades.
(a) Every … habitable room and bathroom shall have a minimum ceiling height of not less than 7 feet, 0 inches for a minimum of 50 percent of the room's floor area. The remaining area may have a ceiling with a minimum height of 5 feet, 0 inches. Minimum height under dropped ducts, beams, etc. shall be 6 feet, 4 inches. (b) Hallways and foyers shall have a minimum ceiling height of 6 feet, 6 inches.
The average height of a garage ceiling is 8 feet, due in part to the widely used 7-foot garage door. Raising the Roof. With no restrictions in place, ceiling height is getting taller as vehicles get bigger. While standard 8-foot ceilings are fine for sedans, 9-foot ceilings are becoming the norm for RVs, big SUVs and vehicles with racks. An 8-foot garage door is used in conjunction with 9-foot ceilings.
The standard ceiling height can vary from place to place, and over time. In the 1970's, the average ceiling height was 7 feet 9 inches. Today, a standard ceiling height is nine feet on the first floor and eight on the second. Upscale houses have a standard ceiling height of 10 to 12 feet. The trend for the past 30 years is for higher ceilings. A higher ceiling height makes homes appear more spacious, but it means more space to heat and cool.
Average Height. The average height of a garage ceiling is 8 feet, due in part to the widely used 7-foot garage door. Eight feet allows a full 12 inches of clearance for the garage door opener, which requires a minimum of 6 1/2 inches to operate. Raising the Roof. With no restrictions in place, ceiling height is getting taller as vehicles get bigger. While standard 8-foot ceilings are fine for sedans, 9-foot ceilings are becoming the norm for RVs, big SUVs and vehicles with racks. An 8-foot garage door is used in conjunction with 9-foot ceilings.
One question we hear often is How tall should ceilings be in my new home?. Ceiling Height in New Homes - 8 Ft or 9 Ft? What Ceiling Height is Considered Standard? Many custom home builders charge extra to increase ceiling height from 8 ft to 9 ft on the first floor. Don't Assume Ceiling Height-Ask For It-In Writing. Most custom home builders will assume they’re putting 9 ft ceilings on the first floor and 8 ft ceilings on the second floor, unless you request something else-but don't take that for granted.
It is also true that the average height of people has increased since the days of 8' ceiling height was a standard, I have heard it said that the average male is 4 inches taller than his grandfather. This being a reason that the standard height of bath vanities at 30 is increasing to 32 and higher. 
The average height for a standard floor in a home is 8', depending  on the requirements of building codes and contractor preference's  there well be some definite space betw … een each level as well.  Calling it 10 floor most home will also have attic in it that you  can stand straight up somewhere. Add that 7 feet roof height to your 8 feet living space height and your total house height would be; 15 feet. the average height of a house as of today is an estimate of around 5 698.334 inches tall.
Since the framing height is 8 feet and 1-1/8 inches, the typical  height of a conventional residential home's ceiling will be 1/8  shy of eight feet, or seven feet, eleven and seven-eighths inches. Minimum height under dropped ducts, beams, etc. shall be 6 feet, 4 inches. (b) Hallways and foyers shall have a minimum ceiling height of 6 feet, 6 inches.