How long do rabbits live, depends on how well they are cared for, and if they are healthy to begin with. That’s why it is important to find a vet that specializes in rabbits. They know how fragile these little guys can be. However, my Oreo is between 12 -15 years old. My sister told me he is 15 years old and since Oro was her daughter’s bunny first, I guess she may be correct. To tell the truth, I know Oreo is over 10, but I’m not sure how much over he is.
The quick answer to how long do rabbits live, is 7 -10 years. However, my Oreo is between 12 -15 years old. My sister told me he is 15 years old and since Oro was her daughter’s bunny first, I guess she may be correct. To tell the truth, I know Oreo is over 10, but I’m not sure how much over he is.
The lifespan of rabbits is 9 to 12 years, and the longest ever lived was 18 years. The kits do not need to be nursed more than twice a day because of the nutritious nature. These kits will begin to see after 10 – 12 days period and after 2 weeks they’ll be eating on their own. 
Founder of the Toronto Rabbit Cooperative. Outdoor pet rabbits should live as long as indoor rabbits and all pet rabbits. On average, pet rabbits live 8-10 years, but they can live longer (although, older than 13 is rare). It can be dangerous to keep a rabbit outside. In most cases, it's better to keep a house rabbit (indoors). Large rabbits do tend to live shorter than smaller rabbits. I have a Checkered Giant and according to the place where we go him, it says that he'll live for up to five years, … whereas the smaller rabbits tend to live from five to ten years instead. A different answer: 5 years is a short life for a rabbit.
So the question on how long do rabbits live, depends on how well your rabbits lives. Even though Oreo is a senior, he still hops around, usually in the evening, joining me in the family room. Oreo still gets his wants across to me. However, my Oreo is between 12 -15 years old. My sister told me he is 15 years old and since Oro was her daughter’s bunny first, I guess she may be correct. To tell the truth, I know Oreo is over 10, but I’m not sure how much over he is.
Giant rabbit breeds tend to have a slightly shorter lifespan than smaller pet rabbits. Rabbits tend to live between 8-10 years, with some living as long as 12, even 13 years; … giant breeds are on the lower end of that scale (living 8, 9, 10, maybe 11 years). Depending on lifestyle and diet they can live between 7 to 10+ years. Lionhead bunnies have the same lifespan as other pet rabbits. In all ways (in matters of care, behaviour, … health, medicine, etc.), they're just like
Outdoor pet rabbits should live as long as indoor rabbits and all pet rabbits. On average, pet rabbits live 8-10 years, but they can live longer (although, older than 13 is ra … re). It can be dangerous to keep a rabbit outside. In most cases, it's better to keep a house rabbit (indoors). Depending on lifestyle and diet they can live between 7 to 10+ years. Lionhead bunnies have the same lifespan as other pet rabbits. In all ways (in matters of care, behaviour, … health, medicine, etc.), they're just like
Pet rabbits live on average 9 or 10 years but they can live up to  13 or 14. Other rabbits that are in captivity, like test or meat  rabbits, have a much shorter lifespan -- … anywhere from babyhood to  two or three years. Depending on lifestyle and diet they can live between 7 to 10+ years. Lionhead bunnies have the same lifespan as other pet rabbits. In all ways (in matters of care, behaviour, … health, medicine, etc.), they're just like
A rabbit's colour doesn't affect its lifespan. Pet rabbits have the same average lifespan: 8 to 10 years, although they can live to 13, even 14 years. Wild rabbits have a much … shorter lifespan because they usually are killed young by predators. Depending on lifestyle and diet they can live between 7 to 10+ years. Lionhead bunnies have the same lifespan as other pet rabbits. In all ways (in matters of care, behaviour, … health, medicine, etc.), they're just like