1 Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate.
Although both sodium and potassium oxalate salts are water soluble, calcium oxalate is practically insoluble, which is why calcium oxalate, when present in high enough levels, has the propensity to precipitate (or solidify) in the kidneys or in the urinary tract to form calcium oxalate crystals. Calcium oxalate crystals, in turn, contribute to the formation of kidney stones. Approximately 75% of all kidney stones are composed predominantly of calcium oxalate. For reasons not yet fully understood, women have a much lower incidence of kidney stones than men. Michael Liebman, Ph.D.
Calcium is a common ingredient in urine stones and crystals. Calcium oxalate (Ca[COO] 2) crystals are the most frequently observed crystals in urine, and 75% of renal calculi have calcium oxalate as a component. Calcium oxalate crystals can form at any pH and have various microscopic morphologies. It is estimated that about half of the oxalate in urine comes from ascorbic acid (vitamin C), which is a precursor to oxalate. Calcium oxalate crystals are also associated with ethylene glycol ingestion, another oxalate precursor.
Calcium oxalate crystals in the urine are the most common constituent of human kidney stones, and calcium oxalate crystal formation is also one of the toxic effects of ethylene glycol poisoning. Calcium oxalate (in archaic terminology, oxalate of lime) is a calcium salt of oxalic acid with the chemical formula CaC 2 O 4. It is a chemical compound that forms envelope-shaped crystals, known in plants as raphides.
Calcium and oxalate in the diet play a part but are not the only factors that affect the formation of calcium oxalate stones. Dietary oxalate is an organic molecule found in many vegetables, fruits, and nuts. Calcium from bone may also play a role in kidney stone formation. Factors that promote the precipitation of oxalate crystals in the urine, such as primary hyperoxaluria, are associated with the development of calcium oxalate stones. The formation of calcium phosphate stones is associated with conditions such as hyperparathyroidism and renal tubular acidosis.
Kidney stones are common, affecting as many as 15 percent of people. These stones come in different varieties, with the majority of them including a calcium component. Calcium oxalate stones are the most common type and represent 56 to 80 percent of cases in adults.
Oxalates and kidney stones. The formation of kidney stones containing oxalate is an area of controversy in clinical nutrition with respect to dietary restriction of oxalate. About 80% of kidney stones formed by adults in the U.S. are calcium oxalate stones. It is not clear from the research, however, that restriction of dietary oxalate helps prevent formation of calcium oxalate stones in individuals who have previously formed such stones. 
Nutritional recommendations for addressing oxalate as a means of reducing the risk of kidney stones are some of the most complex and misunderstood. Approximately 20 percent of individuals who form calcium oxalate stones have hyperoxaluria (high oxalate in their urine). These individuals benefit from a reduction in high-oxalate foods. However, the vast majority of those with calcium oxalate stones, whose urine oxalate is normal, do not benefit from a restriction of
1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 4  Your liver also produces oxalate. Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate.