This school offers individuals a Bachelor’s of Science in Health Sciences Degree program that consists of 120 credit hours of study. For residents of Florida, the tuition cost for this program is $208.23 per credit hour. For non-residents, the tuition cost for this program is $744.84 per credit hour. In addition, an online Master’s of Science in Health Systems Management Degree program is also. The tuition cost for the bachelor’s degree program is $265 per credit hour. For the master’s degree program, the tuition cost is $325 per credit hour. 2.
Essential Information. Majoring in a health science can lead to a variety of careers with salaries ranging from average to well above average. Many careers in health science are expected to grow over the next ten years, and millions of new jobs should be created. Salary info for health science majors depends greatly on the area of study. Salary and Career Info for a Health Science Major. Degrees in health science typically cover illnesses, anatomy and medication. Find out about the curricula of these programs, and learn about career options, job growth and salary info for health science graduates. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Most often, health science professionals possess at least a Bachelor’s Degree in their field, which provides them with many rewarding career opportunities, satisfying salaries of up to $100,000 or more per year, and the skills that are essential to proper healthcare maintenance. In addition, an online Master’s of Science in Health Systems Management Degree program is also. The tuition cost for the bachelor’s degree program is $265 per credit hour. For the master’s degree program, the tuition cost is $325 per credit hour. 2.
This school offers both a Bachelor’s of Science in Applied Health Science Degree program and a Master’s of Science in Applied Health Science Degree program. The tuition cost for the bachelor’s program is $19,736 per year for residents of Indiana and $41,186 per year for non-residents. In addition, an online Master’s of Science in Health Systems Management Degree program is also. The tuition cost for the bachelor’s degree program is $265 per credit hour. For the master’s degree program, the tuition cost is $325 per credit hour. 2.
The median salary for health educators is nearly $46,000 and most positions require a bachelor’s degree, according to the BLS. Professionals with a bachelor’s degree in health science can also advance their employment in many health-related fields, including medical clinical research, radiology and administration. Management and leadership in health care. While earning an online bachelor’s degree in health science, students will complete a broad range of core course work in health care administration, health care delivery, and the legal and ethical aspects of the health care profession.
Masters in Health Science Average Salary. According to the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics, management in the health care and medical industry is predicted to grow by 16% from 2006 to 2016, which is much faster than average job growth. According to PayScale.com, some of the common degrees, along with typical first-year salary ranges for those careers, are as follows: 1  Chief Nurse Anesthetist: $95,567 – $179,094. 2  Physician Assistant: $66,338 – $81,162. 3  Vice President of Operations: $54,045 – $102,789.
One option for those with an online bachelor’s in health science is to pursue a career in health education, which is one of the fastest-growing segments of health care. The field is expected to grow 37 percent by 2020, adding more than 85,000 jobs. Management and leadership in health care. While earning an online bachelor’s degree in health science, students will complete a broad range of core course work in health care administration, health care delivery, and the legal and ethical aspects of the health care profession.
Average Health Science Salaries. The average salary for health science jobs is $54,000. Average health science salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term health science anywhere in the job listing.