Definition. Involuntary charge on a tax payer's property arising from non-payment of income, property, or other taxes. Tax liens take precedence over all other liens on a property and (in case of liquidation) must be satisfied first. Nearby Terms. 1  tax impact. 2  tax incentive. 3  tax information... 4  tax inversion. 5  tax invoice. 6  tax jurisdictio... 7  tax law. 8  tax liability. 9  tax lien. 10  tax loss carry 11  ... tax loss carry 12  ... tax participati... 13  tax payable. 14  tax planning. 15  tax preparation... 16  tax rate. 17  tax rate schedu...
state tax lien-a lien on the property of a taxpayer that the tax collector can use upon default of payment of taxes. tax lien-lien of which a tax collector may avail himself in default of taxes (analogous to a judgment lien). 
Tax Lien Certificate Law & Legal Definition. A tax lien certificate is a document issued by a local government at an auction for a property that has a tax lien against due to the failure of the property owner to pay property taxes. The buyer is essentially purchasing the right to collect past due taxes. 
What is a Federal Tax Lien: The federal lien allows the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to secure or otherwise requisition the taxpayer's property in order to secure payment. Federal tax liens can be assessed for unpaid taxes of any kind, including income, self-employment, gift or estate taxes. Federal (Tax) Lien. A Federal (Tax) Lien is a federally authorized lien or security placed against any and all assets of a taxpayer who has unpaid back taxes.
DEFINITION of 'Federal Tax Lien'. A federally authorized lien against any and all assets of a taxpayer who has unpaid back taxes. 
tax lien-lien of which a tax collector may avail himself in default of taxes (analogous to a judgment lien). lien-the right to take another's property if an obligation is not discharged. federal tax lien-lien of the United States on all property of a taxpayer who fails to pay the federal government the taxes for which he or she is liable. state tax lien-a lien on the property of a taxpayer that the tax collector can use upon default of payment of taxes. 1  Facebook
Definition of 'Tax Lien Sale Certificate'. A tax lien sale certificate is a document proving that the holder has purchased a property in a tax lien sale auction. 
lien. n. any official claim or charge against property or funds for payment of a debt or an amount owed for services rendered. A lien is usually a formal document signed by the party to whom money is owed, and sometimes by the debtor who agrees to the amount due. Lien. A right given to another by the owner of property to secure a debt, or one created by law in favor of certain creditors. A lien is an encumbrance on one person's property to secure a debt the property owner owes to another person.