Flexion of the forearm is achieved by a group of three muscles – the brachialis, biceps brachii, and brachioradialis. These flexor muscles are all located on the anterior side of the upper arm and extend from the humerus and scapula to the ulna and radius of the forearm. Additionally, the biceps brachii operates as a supinator of the forearm by rotating the radius and moving the palm of the hand anteriorly. Muscles of the Arm and Hand. The muscles of the arm and hand are specifically designed to meet the body’s diverse needs of strength, speed, and precision while completing many complex daily tasks. Activities such as lifting weights or heavy boxes require brute strength from the muscles of the arm
The brachialis (brachialis anticus) is a muscle in the upper arm that flexes the elbow joint. It lies deeper than the biceps brachii, and is a synergist that assists the biceps brachii in flexing at the elbow. It makes up part of the floor of the region known as the cubital fossa. The brachialis muscle is innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve, which runs on its superficial surface, between it and the biceps brachii. Part of it is also innervated by the radial nerve (proprioceptive branch) which allows it to be split during certain approaches to the arm.
The brachialis originates from the lower half of the front of the humerus, near the insertion of the deltoid muscle, which it embraces by two angular processes. Its origin extends below to within 2.5 cm of the margin of the articular surface of the humerus at the elbow joint. The brachialis muscle is innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve, which runs on its superficial surface, between it and the biceps brachii. Part of it is also innervated by the radial nerve (proprioceptive branch) which allows it to be split during certain approaches to the arm.
The deltoid is widest at the top of the shoulder and narrows to its apex as it travels down the arm. Contraction of the deltoid muscle results in a wide range of movement of the arm at the shoulder due to its location and the wide separation of its muscle fibers.... Click to read more below. The deltoid muscle is a rounded, triangular muscle located on the uppermost part of the arm and the top of the shoulder. 
In general a skeletal muscle is a muscle that is attached to a bone through a tendon. Skeletal Muscles produce body motions; stabilize body positions, store and move substances within the body and also produce body heat. Skeletal Muscle works primarily in a voluntary matter. The Supinator is a broad muscle, curved around the upper third of the radius. It originates from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, and near the radial notch of the ulna, it inserts onto the lateral surface of the proximal one-third of the radius. The Supinator supinates the forearm at the radioulnar joints.
large muscle on the anterior surface of the upper arm that bulges when the forearm is flexed. Origin: two sites on the scapula, the coracoid process and the tubercle superior to the glenoid cavity. Insertion: on the radial tuberosity Action:flexes forearm, rotates forearm laterally (supination). Triceps Brachii. covers the posterior surface of the upper arm and is the antagonist of the brachialis Origin: occurs at three sites the tubercle below the glenoid cavity, and the posterior and medial surfaces of the humerus. Insertion: olecranon process of the ulna. Action: extends the forearm
Two special motions produced by the muscles of the forearm are the supination (anterior rotation) and pronation (posterior rotation) of the forearm and hand. Supination is produced by the biceps brachii of the upper arm and the supinator muscle of the forearm. Muscles of the Arm and Hand. The muscles of the arm and hand are specifically designed to meet the body’s diverse needs of strength, speed, and precision while completing many complex daily tasks. Activities such as lifting weights or heavy boxes require brute strength from the muscles of the 
Name any muscles in the upper arm? the deltoid muscle is the muscle forming the rounded contour of the shoulder. the biceps brachii, or simply biceps in common parlance, is, as the name implies, a two-headed … muscle located on the upper arm. I think you are referring to the triceps. This is the muscle that attaches at the elbow and the shoulder. The one that you use when extending your arm. biceps; up triceps; under.