up vote 2 down vote. Unfortunately, there is no strict formula for this and the answer strongly depends on the intensity of exercise. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. From my experience if I eat a large meal which is heavy in carbohydrates I see my best performance with a high intensity exercise 6 to 8 hours later.
You should eat carbohydrates (such as a piece of fruit, raw veggies or whole-grain crackers) as soon as possible after exercising, and eat some protein (a hard-boiled egg, nuts, turkey, chicken, etc.) within two hours of your workout. You should wait to exercise if you've eaten a large meal (at least three to four hours, but sometimes up to six, is required). This is because it takes your body some time to digest a large meal, but intense exercise slows your digestion (and instead diverts energy to your muscles).
up vote 9 down vote accepted. It takes 30 to 40 minutes for food to digest in your stomach and 3 to 4 hours for it to absorb in your intestines. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. From my experience if I eat a large meal which is heavy in carbohydrates I see my best performance with a high intensity exercise 6 to 8 hours later.
Timing. Make it a practice to eat large meals at least three to 4 hours before working out. If you have a smaller sized meal, you can work out two to 3 hours after eating. Light snacks are typically fine when eaten right before and even during exercise. When you are done working out, you can enjoy a meal immediately. 
How long you need to wait to exercise depends on how big the meal was. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out. If you know you’re exercising soon after, don’t stuff yourself.
To replace the glycogen stores in your body quickly and effectively, eat a snack that contains both protein and carbohydrates. This will provide both fast-acting and sustainable energy to your body. Try to eat a snack within two hours of exercising, but wait a minimum of 15 minutes after exercising before you eat. Bring a snack along to the gym with you, so you can eat as soon as your workout is over. 
When it comes to eating before exercise, it's all about timing. No matter what time of day you choose to exercise, make sure to plan your workout two to three hours after your meal. Going overboard with too much food right before a workout will leave you feeling sluggish and can lead to stomach discomfort. Damian15154122 1 year. You couldn't be more wrong, as long as ur meal is a smaller portion like you should be eating anyway if your trying t healthy, within 30-40 minutes you should be good to workout.
Don’t Eat Sugar or Carbohydrates For 2 hours After Your Cardio Workout – 60-80% of the fuel you use during your cardio workout is glycogen (sugar) already stored in the muscle. The harder you workout (intensity & heart rate) the more calories you burn and the more glycogen (sugar) you burn. 
The author was clearly stating that if you eat a 'big' meal then you should wait 2-3 hours before exercising but a 'snack' or 'small meal' can and should be eaten an hour before exercising. Damian15154122 1 year. You couldn't be more wrong, as long as ur meal is a smaller portion like you should be eating anyway if your trying t healthy, within 30-40 minutes you should be good to workout.