Effects. In studies of Zyflo for asthma, people taking it had improved breathing and fewer daytime and nighttime asthma symptoms, compared to those not taking the medication. The drug was also shown to be safe and effective for treating asthma in children as young as 12 years old. Zyflo is part of a group of medications called leukotriene synthesis inhibitors. Leukotrienes are chemicals produced by the body in response to allergens or other problems. In the lungs, leukotrienes cause swelling and inflammation in the airways and constriction of the muscles of the respiratory tract.
Zileuton has the molecular formula C 11 H 12 N 2 O 2 S and a molecular weight of 236.29. It is a racemic mixture (50:50) of R(+) and S(-) enantiomers. Zileuton is a practically odorless, white, crystalline powder that is soluble in methanol and ethanol, slightly soluble in acetonitrile, and practically insoluble in water and hexane. The melting point ranges from 144.2°C to 145.2°C. Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: liver disease, alcohol use. This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.
Less serious side effects may include: 1  cold symptoms such as stuffy nose, sinus pain, sneezing, sore throat; 2  headache; 3  diarrhea, upset stomach; 4  weakness; or. 5  muscle pain. These chemicals cause swelling in your lungs and tightening of the muscles around your airways, which can result in asthma symptoms. Zileuton is used to prevent asthma attacks in adults and children as young as 12 years old. Zileuton may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Zileuton is used by patients with mild-to-moderate chronic asthma to decrease the symptoms of asthma and the number of acute asthma attacks. However, this medicine should not be taken to relieve an asthma attack that has already started. Helps prevent and control asthma attacks. Zileuton immediate-release tablets (Zyflo®) were withdrawn from the U. S. market on February 12, 2008. Zyflo CR® is still available.
Zyflo ® (zileuton) is a prescription medication used to prevent asthma attacks in adults and children as young as 12 years old. Zyflo is part of a group of medications called leukotriene synthesis inhibitors. Leukotrienes are chemicals produced by the body in response to allergens or other problems. In the lungs, leukotrienes cause swelling and inflammation in the airways and constriction of the muscles of the respiratory tract.
June 12, 2009 -- The FDA today asked makers of Singulair, Accolate, Zyflo, and Zyflo CR to include a precaution on those drugs' labels about reports of behavior and mood changes. Singulair is used to treat asthma and symptoms of allergic rhinitis. Accolate, Zyflo, and Zyflo CR are used to treat asthma. All four drugs are leukotriene inhibitors, which affect the leukotriene pathway, which is involved in the body's response to inflammatory stimuli (such as breathing in an allergen).
Zyflo ® (zileuton) is a prescription medication used for preventing asthma attacks. Asthma is a chronic disease that affects your airways, which are the tubes that carry air into and out of your lungs. Zyflo is used for preventing asthma attacks in adults and children as young as 12 years old.
However, seek immediate medical attention if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects. If you notice other effects not listed above, contact your doctor or pharmacist. In the US -. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Zyflo sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: liver disease, alcohol use. This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy. Do not drive, use machinery, or do any activity that requires alertness until you are sure you can perform such activities safely.