We use your total yearly earnings to figure your Social Security credits. The amount needed for a credit in 2015 is $1,220. You can earn a maximum of four credits for any year. The amount needed to earn one credit increases automatically each year when average wages increase. You must earn a certain number of credits to qualify for Social Security benefits. The number of credits you need depends on your age when you apply and the type of benefit application. No one needs more than 40 credits for any Social Security benefit. More Information. 
Example: If you became disabled at age 29, you must have enough credits for 4 years of work (16 credits). The following chart outlines how many work credits you will need to receive Social Security Disability benefits. For example, disability applicants who are under 24 years of age may be able to qualify for Social Security Disability benefits if they have earned a total of six work credits in the three years prior to the onset of the disability.
No matter how much your household income is, you can qualify for Social Security Disability SSDI benefits if you meet the SSA's disability criteria and have enough work credits to qualify for SSDI benefits from the Social Security Administration. For example, disability applicants who are under 24 years of age may be able to qualify for Social Security Disability benefits if they have earned a total of six work credits in the three years prior to the onset of the disability.
The number of credits you need to be eligible for Social Security depends on the program and your age. For retirement benefits, the required number of credits is simple: You have to have earned 40 credits, equivalent to 10 years of work if you earn the maximum number of credits per year. Disability benefits involve complex rules. Having 40 credits is always adequate, but the younger you are, the fewer credits you need.
Social Security requires a minimum of 40 credits for retirement benefits, whether you take early retirement at age 62 or wait until your full retirement age (which varies between 65 and 67, depending on the year of your birth). If you don't have the 40 credits, you don't draw any retirement. 
Earning Social Security credits is simple. Each year, the SSA looks at the amount of money you earn from work on which you pay Social Security payroll taxes. In 2015, you get one credit for every $1,220 you make and pay Social Security taxes on. That $1,220 figure gets adjusted for inflation every year. For retirement benefits, the required number of credits is simple: You have to have earned 40 credits, equivalent to 10 years of work if you earn the maximum number of credits per year. Disability benefits involve complex rules. Having 40 credits is always adequate, but the younger you are, the fewer credits you need.
If you have not worked or do not have enough Social Security credits to qualify for your own Social Security benefits, you may be able to receive spouse’s benefits. To qualify for spouse’s benefits, you must be: 1  At least 62 years of age; or. 
In 2015, a worker must earn $1,220 to earn one work credit. In order to qualify for Social Security Disability benefits, you will generally need to have earned a total of 20 work credits, although there are age exceptions to this rule. For example, disability applicants who are under 24 years of age may be able to qualify for Social Security Disability benefits if they have earned a total of six work credits in the three years prior to the onset of the disability.
The Social Security Administration (SSA) determines if you have worked enough to qualify for SSD by converting your earnings into work credits. The dollar amount it takes to earn one work credit is calculated annually. In the year 2015, you must earn $1,220 to get one Social Security work credit, or $4,880 to get the maximum four credits for the year. It doesn't matter in which quarter you did the work. Previously (before 1978), a credit was equal to having worked for one quarter in which you earned at least $50
You are allowed to continue working and still receive Social Security benefits. However, if you are under full retirement age, you are limited in the amount you can earn. In 2011, that amount is $14,160. If you are under full retirement age, then you will have to repay $1 for every $2 year earn over that limit. A special rule applies in the year you reach the full retirement age, and then once you actually reach your full retirement age there is no limit on the amount you can earn.