Effexor XR (venlafaxine hydrochloride) is a prescription medication used for treatment of depression and anxiety disorders. It is available in 37.5mg, 75mg and 150mg capsules and is usually taken once daily. 
Effexor XR (venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release) is an antidepressant used to treat patients with major depressive disorders such as panic and social disorders. Effexor XR is available as a generic termed venlafaxine. Common side effects of Effexor XR are nausea, constipation, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, drowsiness, dry mouth, nervousness, strange dreams, blurred vision, changes in appetite or weight, decreased sex drive, impotence, difficulty having an orgasm, and sweating. Effexor XR contains venlafaxine hydrochloride in strengths of 37.5, 75, or 150 mg tablets. The dose is usually one tablet per day. Serious side effects of Effexor XR include clinical worsening of symptoms and suicide risk, especially in younger patients.
A: Effexor (venlafaxine) is a medication that is used to treat depression. Effexor is also used by physicians for treating conditions, other than what the manufacturer intended, called off-label uses, including nerve pain, fibromyalgia, and migraines. A: Effexor (venlafaxine) and Effexor XR (venlafaxine extended-release) are in a drug class called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Effexor is used in the treatment of
Effexor’s chemical structure is unlike any other antidepressant. It works to restore the balance of brain chemicals called neurotransmitters — specifically serotonin and norepinephrine. Effexor is in a class of medicines called serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). 
A: Effexor XR (venlafaxine) is an antidepressant that is used to treat depression, anxiety, and panic disorder. The most common side effects of Effexor XR are nausea, headache, somnolence, dry mouth, dizziness, insomnia, and constipation. A: Effexor (venlafaxine) and Effexor XR (venlafaxine extended-release) are in a drug class called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Effexor is used in the treatment of depression.
Descriptions. Venlafaxine is used to treat depression. It is also used to treat general anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, and panic disorder. Venlafaxine belongs to a group of medicines known as serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI). 
A: Effexor (venlafaxine) is an antidepressant in the class of drugs called selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). SNRIs affect chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. It is used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety, and panic disorder. A: Effexor (venlafaxine) and Effexor XR (venlafaxine extended-release) are in a drug class called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Effexor is used in the treatment of
A: Effexor (venlafaxine) is an antidepressant in a class of drugs called selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). SNRIs affect chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. Effexor is used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety, and panic disorder. A: Effexor (venlafaxine) and Effexor XR (venlafaxine extended-release) are in a drug class called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Effexor is used in the treatment of
Venlafaxine — brand names: Effexor, Effexor XR, Lanvexin, and Trevilor — is an antidepressant of the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) class. This means it increases the concentrations of the neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine in the body and the brain. Venlafaxine is usually categorized as a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), but it has been referred to as a serotonin-norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (SNDRI).
Venlafaxine is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSNRIs). Venlafaxine affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. Venlafaxine is used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety, and panic disorder. Venlafaxine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.