The risks, as well as your expectations, should be discussed during the consultation. Neck lift cost varies based on the extent of the surgery, what your doctor charges and often where the practice is based. It typically ranges from $2,500 to $6,000. This includes the surgeon fee, facility fee and anesthesia fee. 
top. Since a neck lift may involve several procedures performed at once, the cost of undergoing this procedure can range anywhere from $3,000 to $15,000. Liposuction alone averages $2,000, a face lift usually costs $6,000, and a chin implant runs about $2,000. A neck lift can even give some people the appearance of lost weight. With the increasing popularity of cosmetic surgery, including neck lift, it is important that the prospective patient research and understand different issues like what the procedure can and cannot treat, inherent risks, costs, and other factors.
The neck lift is a relatively straightforward procedure that generally lasts between two and three hours. The type of anesthesia administered at the beginning of the procedure depends largely on the preferences of the patient and the surgeon. If you are interested in neck lift surgery, and want to know if you are a good candidate for the treatment, you should meet with a qualified plastic surgeon for a consultation. Ideal candidates include men and women, 40 to 80 years of age, who wish to correct: 1  Sun or wind damaged neck skin.
Cost of a Natural Neck Lift. The typical natural neck lift cost varies from $4,500 to $7,000 in Atlanta. The cost of the natural neck lift depends on several factors: geography, local cost of living, facility and anesthesia fees, and most importantly, the experience and credentials of your plastic surgeon. 
The average cost of a neck lift is $4,389, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Neck lift surgery costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon’s neck lift price may be based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used and the geographic office location. Most health insurance does not cover neck lift surgery or its complications, but many plastic surgeons offer patient financing plans, so be sure to ask. Arm lift surgery costs may include:
If you are considering neck lift or another neck rejuvenation procedure, cost is likely an important consideration. As is true with any major expenditure, it's good to know all the details going in. In addition to knowing what to expect regarding neck lift surgery cost, it is also important to understand any potential neck lift risks and how long the neck lift recovery process should take. 1  Face Gallery. 2  Eyelid procedure. 3  Rhinoplasty procedure.
Find Your Surgeon. A neck lift, or lower rhytidectomy, is a surgical procedure that improves visible signs of aging in the jawline and neck, such as: 1  Excess fat and skin relaxation in the lower face that creates jowls
Neck lift costs tend to be higher in urban areas such as New York City and Los Angeles where surgeons are in greater demand. In general, neck lift cost comprises anesthesia fees, facility fees and surgeon fees. When all these costs are factored in, neck lift cost typically runs anywhere from $5,000 to $8,000. If your neck lift is performed in conjunction with other procedures, including face lift and chin augmentation, your total cost will be higher. In addition to knowing what to expect regarding neck lift surgery cost, it is also important to understand any potential neck lift risks and how long the neck lift recovery process should take. 1  Face Gallery. 2  Eyelid procedure. 3  Rhinoplasty procedure.
Average Cost. Fees for cosmetic plastic surgery generally are paid prior to surgery. Oftentimes the consultation fee is deducted from the procedure. Costs vary widely and depend on the complexity of the operation, where the surgery takes place and which anesthetic is administered. 