From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Stanol ester is a heterogeneous group of chemical compounds known to reduce the level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in blood when ingested, though to a much lesser degree than prescription drugs such as statins. The starting material is phytosterols from plants. These are first hydrogenated to give a plant stanol which is then esterified with a mixture of fatty acids also derived from plants. Plant stanol esters are found naturally occurring in small quantities in fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, cereals, legumes, and vegetable oils.
Stanol ester is often added to rapeseed oil based margarine or other foods for its health benefits. Studies have indicated that consumption of about 2-3 grams per day provides a reduction in LDL cholesterol of about 10-15%. These are first hydrogenated to give a plant stanol which is then esterified with a mixture of fatty acids also derived from plants. Plant stanol esters are found naturally occurring in small quantities in fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, cereals, legumes, and vegetable oils.
Cholesterol and phytosterols have a very similar molecular structure. Plant stanols are saturated forms of corresponding plant sterols. The molecular structure of sitostanyl oleate, which is the major plant stanol ester component when plant stanols are esterified with low erucic acid rapeseed oil (LEAR) fatty acids.
Sure, there are holiday foods to avoid, or at least minimize, but you can still enjoy most foods you like with a little know-how. The first thing... Plant sterols and stanols are substances that occur naturally in small amounts in many grains, vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, and seeds. 
Phytosterols (referred to as plant sterol and stanol esters) are a group of naturally occurring compounds found in plant cell membranes. Because phytosterols are structurally similar to the body’s cholesterol, when they are consumed they compete with cholesterol for absorption in the digestive system. 
There are also heart-healthy spreads that are fortified with plant sterols. You can also get plant sterols in supplement form. The recommended dose is 2000 mg/day. However, before taking a plant sterol or stanol supplement, make sure to talk with your doctor. The Dr. Oz Show will not and does not promote any particular brand.
Stanol ester is a heterogeneous group of chemical compounds known to reduce the level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in blood when ingested, though to a much lesser degree than prescription drugs such as statins. These are first hydrogenated to give a plant stanol which is then esterified with a mixture of fatty acids also derived from plants. Plant stanol esters are found naturally occurring in small quantities in fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, cereals, legumes, and vegetable oils.
Plant sterols are cholesterol-like molecules found in all plant foods, with the highest concentrations occurring in vegetable oils. Plant sterols are plant equivalents of cholesterol and have a very similar molecular structure. Plant stanols are present in small amounts in human diet. Their main sources are whole-grain foods, mostly wheat and rye. The daily intake of stanols in the average western diet is about 60 mg/d, whereas the intake of plant sterols is about 150–300 mg/d and that of cholesterol is 500–800 mg/d.
Many people have eaten foods like walnuts, salmon and oatmeal in the hope of improving their heart health, but what's a plant sterol or stanol and do you really want to eat it? Plant sterols and stanols are substances that occur naturally in small amounts in many grains, vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts and seeds. Extra margarine spread, with or without stanols and sterols, means extra calories. You can also find plant sterols or stanols in some cooking oils, salad dressings, milk, yoghurt, snack bars, and juices. Indeed, so many fortified products are headed to supermarket shelves that you'll soon have a wide array of choices.