Hip pain is a common complaint that can be caused by a wide variety of problems. The precise location of your hip pain can provide valuable clues about the underlying cause. Problems within the hip joint itself tend to result in pain on the inside of your hip or your groin. Hip pain on the outside of your hip, upper thigh or outer buttock is usually caused by problems with muscles, ligaments, tendons and other soft tissues that surround your hip joint. Hip pain can sometimes be caused by diseases and conditions in other areas of your body, such as your lower back or your knees. This type of pain is called referred pain. Most hip pain can be controlled with self-care at home. 1  Causes
A person with hip tenderness has pain in the hip joint when pressure is applied to the skin overlying the hip joint. Hip tenderness may be caused by injury, inflammation or infection. Common causes include arthritis, hip bursitis, hip synovitis, hip strain, and hip injury. Symptoms that occur with hip tenderness may include hip swelling, hip bruising, hip pain, and hip stiffness. Additional symptoms that may occur with severe hip tenderness include severe hip pain, fever, difficulty walking, limping, and warmth or redness to the skin overlying the hip joint.
Hip pain can be caused by a number of injuries or conditions. The most common cause of acute hip pain is inflamed tendons, often caused by over-exercising. This condition can be very painful, but usually heals within a few days. The most common cause of long-term hip pain is arthritis, or joint swelling. Arthritis can cause pain, stiff and tender joints, and difficulty walking. There are two main types of arthritis: osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. There are a number of other, less common conditions that can cause hip pain, too. These include snapping hip syndrome and osteonecrosis. Snapping hip syndrome (most commonly found in dancers or athletes) is characterized by a snapping sound or feeling in the hip.
Hip pain may be caused by problems in the bones or cartilage of your hip. 1  Hip fractures can cause of sudden hip pain. 2  These injuries can be a serious and lead to major problems. 3  Hip fractures are more common as people get older because falls are more likely and your bones become weaker. 4  Infection in the. 5  or. 
Pain in the hip can result from a number of factors. Abnormalities of the skin, nerves, bones, joints, blood vessels, and soft tissues of the hip can all result in pain. Sometimes diseases that affect other joints in the body, such as the inflammation resulting from arthritis, can be the cause of pain in the hip. Hip pain may also occur because of a problem with the back or spine. Depending upon the cause of hip pain, the pain may occur when walking, running, or engaging in activity. Bursitis of one of the two bursae of the hip (sacs that provide cushioning between bones and tissues) can cause hip pain.
If your hip pain is caused by a muscle or tendon strain, osteoarthritis, or tendinitis, you can usually relieve it with an over-the-counter pain medication such as Tylenol or a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug such as Motrin or Aleve. Sometimes pain from other areas of the body, such as the back or groin (from a hernia), can radiate to the hip. You might notice that your pain gets worse with activity, especially if it's caused by arthritis.
If you have arthritis, exercising the hip joint with low-impact exercises, stretching, and resistance training can reduce pain and improve joint mobility. For example, swimming is a good non-impact exercise for arthritis. Physical therapy can also help increase your range of motion. Sometimes pain from other areas of the body, such as the back or groin (from a hernia), can radiate to the hip. You might notice that your pain gets worse with activity, especially if it's caused by