Kiribati (/ˌkɪrɪˈbaes/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBæS-keer-ə bahss /or/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBɑːTI-keer-ə-bah), tee officially The republic Of, kiribati is an island nation in the Central Pacific. Ocean the nation comprises 33 atolls and reef islands and one raised coral, Island. banaba Kiribati (/ˌkɪrɪˈbaes/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBæS-keer-ə bahss /or/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBɑːTI-keer-ə-bah), tee officially The republic Of, kiribati is an island nation in the Central Pacific. ocean
Learn how to say Kiribati in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. 
Kiribati, officially the Republic of Kiribati, is an island nation located in the central tropical Pacific Ocean. The country's 33 atolls are scattered over 1,351,000 square miles (3,500,000 square kilometers) near the equator. Kiribati, pronounced keer-ih-bahs, consists of about 32 atolls and one island (Banaba), with at least three atolls in each hemisphere, located in an expanse of ocean equivalent in size to the continental United States.
Tabiteuea North, 1979 (photo by Steve Trussel) Click for large image. KIRIBATI, (pronounced like kee-ree-bus, the native pronunciation of Gilberts) is a small island republic in the middle of the Pacific, with a population of about 70,000 Micronesians.
Kiribati (taetae ni Kiribati). Kiribati is a Micronesian language spoken in Kiribati, Fiji, Nauru, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu and Vanuatu by about 70,000 people. The Republic of Kiribati was formerly called the Gilbert Islands and their languge was called Gilbertese. The Kiribati language first appeared in writing in the mid 19th century. Rev. Hiram Bingham, Jr. of the Protestant mission based in Hawaii arrived in the Gilberts in 1857, devised a way of writing Kiribati using the Latin alphabet and used it to produce a translation of the Bible.
The name Kiribati is the local pronunciation of “Gilberts”, derived from the main island chain, the Gilbert Islands. Kiribati has three island groups – Gilbert Islands, Line Islands and Phoenix Islands – with a total land area of 811 sq km. The terrain is mostly low-lying coral atolls surrounded by extensive reefs, with a total coastal area of 1,143 km.
The widely scattered nation of Kiribati, pronounced Kir-ee-bahs, located in the Pacific Ocean along the edges of the Equator, includes the Gilbert, Phoenix and Line island groups. Most are uninhabited. 
About Kiribati. Kiribati (pronounced Kiribas) is an independent republic within the Commonwealth of Nations, located in the central Pacific Ocean, about 4,000 km (about 2,500 mi) southwest of Hawaii. It is part of the division of the Pacific islands that is known as Micronesia. 
UTC+12 to +14. Kiribati [1] (pronounced Kiri-bass) is an island group in Micronesia straddling the equator and, until 1995, the International Date Line. Kiribati's 33 atolls, with a total area of only 811 km², are scattered over an area of 3.5 million km². Kiribati was granted self-rule by the UK in 1971 and complete independence in 1979. The US relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited Phoenix and Line Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with Kiribati. The name Kiribati is pronounced Kiri-bass, which is the closest local equivalent to Gilberts.