You’ll Never Walk Alone – Lyrics and History. Liverpool fans on The Kop were one of the first groups of supporters to sing popular songs at football matches, and one of the first songs they adopted for the club was You’ll Never Walk Alone. The song was written by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein, who wrote it for their musical Carousel in 1945. From Wikipedia : The song quickly became the anthem of Liverpool Football Club and is invariably sung by its supporters moments before the start of each home game.[11] The words “You’ll Never Walk Alone” also feature in the club crest and on the Shankly Gates entrance to Anfield, the home stadium.
Report Abuse. False The 1st Set of Supports who sang You'll Never Walk Alone was Manchester United for those who died in Munich, then Gerry and the Pacemakers released it as a Single in the UK charts and it was then sang on the KOP. Then Celtic fans started singing it along with other teams around Europe. Liverpudlians have been singing 'You'll Never Walk Alone' since 1963. Fully 44 years. Celtic sang it on one or two occasions during the 1970s, along with several other British clubs, specifically during crucial cup games.
Liverpool legends Kenny Dalglish, Steven Gerrard and Jamie Carragher all appear in the film to share their experiences of the anthem. Gerrard and Dalglish both believe “You’ll Never Walk Alone” has carried extra significance to Liverpool fans in the wake of the Hillsborough tragedy. A documentary charting the history and significance of football anthem “You’ll Never Walk Alone” will premiere on BT Sport this Monday. “Walk On” will explore how the song travelled from Broadway to Anfield, where it became one of the most iconic football songs in the world.
You’ll Never Walk Alone, the greatest anthem in European football, half a century old. This year is the 50th anniversary of You’ll Never Walk Alone being sung by supporters of Liverpool Football Club; it was adopted later by fans of Celtic, whose love for it, they’ll tell you, goes just as deep. “For me, You’ll Never Walk Alone represents Liverpool Football Club and, specifically, the Liverpool Football Club which Bill Shankly helped build and create,” Peace explains.
Confidence votes 7. The consensus among sports historians, near universal, is that supporters of Liverpool Football Club were first to sing You'll Never Walk Alone. Liverpool There is solid evidence that Liverpool Football Club supporters were the first to sing You'll Never Walk Alone en masse. The song was famously covered by Liverpool group Gerry & the Pacemakers in 1963. Sports historians say Liverpool fans were the first to sing You'll Never Walk Alone in 1963. See: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/Which_soccer_club_was_the_first_to_sing_You'll … _Never_Walk_Alone.
Who Sang You'll Never Walk Alone. First. OK guys following on from another thread who do you think sang You'll Never Walk Alone first. I personaly think it was Liverpool but others say it was Celtic,i would like to hear your opinions and the reason why you voted for either club.
In 1990 at the Nelson Mandela: An International Tribute for a Free South Africa ] concert at Wembley Stadium London, the audience spontaneously broke out into a mass rendition of You'll Never Walk alone. Mandela turned to Adelaide Tambo who accompanied him onto the stage and asked what the song was. In the second season of American Horror Story, this song was recited as a poem. It has been the Madison Scout's corps song since 1954, where they first performed You'll Never Walk Alone as a part of their first field show in 1954.
One year later, when Liverpool met Leeds United in the F.A. Cup final, the travelling Kop sang the same song and match commentator Kenneth Wolstenholme commended the Liverpool signature tune. Liverpudlians have been singing 'You'll Never Walk Alone' since 1963. Fully 44 years. Celtic sang it on one or two occasions during the 1970s, along with several other British clubs, specifically during crucial cup games.