Keytruda®. Generic name: Pembrolizumab. Keytruda® is the trade name for the generic drug pembrolizumab. In some cases, health care professionals may use the generic name pembrolizumab when referring to the trade drug name Keytruda®. Drug type: Keytruda® is a monoclonal antibody- (For more detail, see How this drug works, below). 1 The amount of Keytruda® that you will receive depends on many factors, including your weight, your general health or other health problems, and the type of cancer or condition being treated. 2  Your doctor will determine your dose and schedule.
KEYTRUDA is a medicine that may treat your melanoma or lung cancer by working with your immune system. KEYTRUDA can cause your immune system to attack normal organs and tissues in many areas of your body and can affect the way they work. KEYTRUDA can cause serious side effects. See “What is the most important information I should know about KEYTRUDA?”. The most common side effects of KEYTRUDA include feeling tired, cough, nausea, itching, rash, decreased appetite, shortness of breath, constipation, joint pain, and diarrhea.
Keytruda is a prescription medication used to treat melanoma. It is also used to treat advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Keytruda belongs to a group of drugs called PD-1 Blockers. These help the body's immune system fight melanoma. 
cancer. KEYTRUDA may be used when your lung cancer has spread and tests positive for PD-L1*. and you have tried chemotherapy that contains platinum, and it did not work or is no longer working and if your tumor has an abnormal EGFR or ALK gene*, and you have also tried an. EGFR or ALK inhibitor medicine. KEYTRUDA can cause serious side effects. See “What is the most important information I should know about KEYTRUDA?”. The most common side effects of KEYTRUDA include feeling tired, cough, nausea, itching, rash, decreased appetite, shortness of breath, constipation, joint pain, and diarrhea.
KEYTRUDA is a medicine that may treat your melanoma or lung cancer by working with your immune system. KEYTRUDA can cause your immune system to attack normal organs and tissues in many areas of your body and can affect the way they work. 
Pembrolizumab (formerly MK-3475 and lambrolizumab, trade name Keytruda) is a human antibody used in cancer immunotherapy. It targets the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) receptor. 
Keytruda (pembrolizumab) is a medication approved for people who have advanced melanoma that can't be removed surgically and is no longer responding to other treatments. Keytruda works by blocking a certain process in cells that prevents the immune system from attacking melanoma cells. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) gave accelerated approval to Keytruda based on clinical trial results suggesting that the drug is an improvement on other therapies. In trials, 24% of patients had their tumors shrink while taking the drug, and the benefits lasted more than 8.5 months in most.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today granted accelerated approval to Keytruda (pembrolizumab) for treatment of patients with advanced or unresectable melanoma who are no longer responding to other drugs. Keytruda is the first approved drug that blocks a cellular pathway known as PD-1, which restricts the body’s immune system from attacking melanoma cells. Keytruda is intended for use following treatment with ipilimumab, a type of immunotherapy.
KEYTRUDA is a type of immunotherapy that works by blocking the PD-1 pathway. KEYTRUDA helps the immune system do what it was meant to do: detect and fight cancer cells. KEYTRUDA can cause your immune system to attack normal organs and tissues in many areas of your body and can affect the way they work. KEYTRUDA is the first FDA-approved anti–PD-1 therapy. It is a type of treatment called immunotherapy. For questions to ask your doctor, this downloadable discussion guide may be helpful. To receive more information about.