Tonsillitis is an infection of the tonsils. A sore throat is the most common of all tonsillitis symptoms. In addition, you may also have a cough, high temperature (fever), headache, feel sick, feel tired, find swallowing painful, and have swollen neck glands. 
At-home care. Whether tonsillitis is caused by a viral or bacterial infection, at-home care strategies can make your child more comfortable and promote better recovery. If a virus is the expected cause of tonsillitis, these strategies are the only treatment. Your doctor won't prescribe antibiotics. 
Tonsillitis (/ˌtɒnsɪˈlaɪtɪs/ TON-si-LEYE-tis) is inflammation of the tonsils most commonly caused by viral or bacterial infection. Symptoms may include sore throat and fever. When caused by a bacterium belonging to the group A streptococcus, it is typically referred to as strep throat. 
Most acute infections of the tonsils are due to viruses or bacteria and usually is contagious by direct person-to-person contact. 1  Tonsillitis caused by a virus infection usually is contagious for about 7-10 days. 2  Bacterial tonsillitis can remain contagious for about two weeks. 1
Tonsillitis. Symptoms of tonsillitis usually last for approximately one week. However, the length of time that you're infectious will vary depending on the cause of the infection. Tonsillitis is most commonly the result of a viral infection, but it can also be caused by bacteria. Read more answers to questions about infections.
Strep throat is a specific type of infection caused by the Streptococcus bacteria. Strep tonsillitis can cause secondary damage to the heart valves (rheumatic fever) and kidneys (glomerulonephritis). It can also lead to a skin rash (scarlet fever), sinusitis, pneumonia, and ear infections. Acute tonsillitis is an infection of the tonsils caused by one of several possible types of bacteria or viruses. Symptoms of acute tonsillitis can either come on suddenly, or gradual onset of a sore throat usually accompanied by a fever.
A person with tonsillitis caused by strep bacteria is contagious early on and, without treatment, can remain so for up to 2 weeks. Antibiotics shorten the contagious period, and an infected person is no longer contagious about 24 to 48 hours after beginning antibiotic therapy. Bacteria can also cause tonsillitis. The most common bacterial cause of tonsillitis is group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus (GABHS), which also causes strep throat. Tonsillitis can also be caused by fungi or parasites.
Tonsillitis refers to inflammation of the tonsils, which typically occurs due to infection from viruses or bacteria. Tonsillitis may be accompanied by other symptoms like. 1  cough, 2  sore throat, 3  painful swallowing, 4  headache, and. 5  a coating of yellow pus on the tonsils. 1 Tonsillitis caused by a virus infection usually is contagious for about 7-10 days. 2  Bacterial tonsillitis can remain contagious for about two weeks.
Introduction. Tonsillitis is inflammation of the tonsils. It's usually caused by a viral infection or, less commonly, a bacterial infection. It's a common type of infection in children, although it can sometimes affect adults. The symptoms of tonsillitis include: 1  sore throat that can feel worse when swallowing. 
A. Yes, tonsillitis is usually contagious. Tonsillitis is inflammation of the tonsils, which is usually due to infection by viruses or bacteria. Doctors more often use the term pharyngitis, or inflammation of the pharynx (throat). In most cases of pharyngitis, the tonsils are also infected and inflamed. 