This portion of mRNA is located between the first nucleotide that is transcribed and the start codon (AUG) of the coding region, and it does not affect the sequence of amino acids in a protein (Figure 3). In eukaryotes, the free initiator tRNA first binds the small ribosomal subunit to form a complex. The complex then binds the mRNA transcript, so that the tRNA and the small ribosomal subunit bind the mRNA simultaneously.
Basically, the process involves transcription of a genetic sequence of DNA into a complementary mRNA strand, and then translation of the mRNA strand by tRNA and ribosomes (and, of course enzymes) to produce a chain of amino acids (polypeptide chain) which is then modified into a protein. The transcription of an mRNA strand is based on complementary base-pairing of DNA and mRNA nucleotides (based on the “rules of base pairing”), and the translation of mRNA is based on complementary base-pairing of codons of mRNA and anticodons of tRNA.
DNA is made up of nucleotides, and proteins are made up of amino acids. The information in DNA is first transcribed into messenger RNA (mRNA) , which is also made up of nucleotides. The process of converting the genetic message found in mRNA to an amino acid sequence (protein synthesis) is called translation. Elongation continues in this fashion until the stop codon is reached and the peptide chain is released from the ribosome. Translation of proteins involves a mRNA, tRNA, ribosome, and energy. Click on the graphic to learn about translation with the Protein Synthesis animation.
Summary. 1  transcription of the information encoded in DNA into a molecule of RNA (discussed in Gene Expression: Transcription) and. 2  translation of the information encoded in the nucleotides of mRNA into a defined sequence of amino acids in a protein (discussed here). 1 AUG. ( 2 The region between the mRNA cap and the AUG is known as the 5'-untranslated region [ 5'-UTR 3  ].). Here it is joined by the large subunit and a special initiator tRNA. 4  The initiator tRNA binds to the P site (shown in pink) on the ribosome.
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene. In eukaryotes, the free initiator tRNA first binds the small ribosomal subunit to form a complex. The complex then binds the mRNA transcript, so that the tRNA and the small ribosomal subunit bind the mRNA simultaneously.
-a complex is formed b/w an mRNA molecule, the first tRNA molecule, and the ribosomal subunits-assembly of the complex requires initiation factors and an input of energy (GTP) -To begin in bacteria, mRNA binds to the small ribosomal subunit which is facilitated by a short ribosomal binding sequence near the 5' end. 
As in DNA, mRNA genetic information is in the sequence of nucleotides, which are arranged into codons consisting of three bases each. Each codon encodes for a specific amino acid, except the stop codons, which terminate protein synthesis. During transcription, RNA polymerase makes a copy of a gene from the DNA to mRNA as needed. This process is similar in eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
A series of codons in part of a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule. Each codon consists of three nucleotides, usually corresponding to a single amino acid. The nucleotides are abbreviated with the letters A, U, G and C. This is mRNA, which uses U (uracil). DNA uses T (thymine) instead. 
In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass). In eukaryotes, the free initiator tRNA first binds the small ribosomal subunit to form a complex. The complex then binds the mRNA transcript, so that the tRNA and the small ribosomal subunit bind the mRNA simultaneously.
Finally, the mRNA is degraded. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is a large family of RNA molecules that convey genetic information from DNA to the ribosome, where they specify the amino acid sequence of the protein products of gene expression. During transcription, RNA polymerase makes a copy of a gene from the DNA to mRNA as needed. This process is similar in eukaryotes and prokaryotes.