Bacterial meningitis is a life-threatening disease that comes on quickly. Having knowledge about its causes, symptoms, incubation period and treatment methods will be helpful to you. Advertisement. The human brain and the spinal cord are covered with protective membranes known as meninges. The inflammation of these meninges by bacteria or virus is known as meningitis. Depending on the cause, meningitis is divided into two types: bacterial meningitis and viral meningitis. An Overview on Bacterial Meningitis.
Meningitis is contagious. Prolonged close contact can spread the bacteria that cause meningitis. The bacteria can be spread through kissing, coughs and sneezes, shared cutlery, or sharing items like toothbrushes or cigarettes.
What is the incubation period for meningitis? The incubation period for bacterial meningitis, the most serious types of meningitis, is about three to five days after initial contact with the microbe. However, in some individuals, bacterial meningitis symptoms can occur as rapidly as 24 hours. For viral meningitis, the incubation period can range widely from only a few days to a few weeks. Patients who get meningitis usually have symptoms of headache, fever, and a stiff neck.
The incubation period for meningitis can vary between 2 to 14 days. Children under the age of five face a high risk of contracting meningitis-related infections. The spinal cord is normally enclosed within membranes called meninges, which protect and cushion long nerves. The meningitis incubation period depends on the causative organism behind the meningitis, but usually ranges between two and 14 days. During the incubation period, the patient is typically not contagious. The classic trio of symptoms indicative of meningitis are headache, stiff neck, and a high fever.
Meningitis is infection and inflamation of the meninges (the membranes that cover the brain and the spinal cord). Meningitis can be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites. The first step in the diagnosis of meningitis is by culture and analysis of the spinal fluid (cerebrospinal fluid, CSF). Spinal fluid is obtained by inserting a needle into the meninges of the spinal cord. CSF analysis helps determine if the causative organism is a bacteria, virus, mycobaterium or otherwise.
Viral meningitis. Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. Viruses probably account for most cases of meningitis and are an important cause of admission to hospital[1]. Symptoms of viral meningitis include headache, dislike of bright lights, neck stiffness, fever and nausea/vomiting
Overview. Meningitis is a swelling of the membranes around the spinal cord and brain. It can be caused by fungi, parasites, or even injury. More often, it is due to viral or bacterial infection. Children are especially vulnerable to bacterial meningitis. 