The first order of business with your kids should be to ask them to define what they mean by dating. If they are referring to actually spending time alone with their date then I have to say that around the age of 16 seems to be the magic number. And, you must make it clear what your rules and expectations are other than age. You and your husband need to address the following: 1. Curfews. 2.
The early-starting group began dating at the age of 11.6 years, on average, compared with 12.9 years for on-time teens and 14.9 years for late bloomers. A majority of students, 55%, were classed as on-time teens whose romantic activity gradually matured during adolescence. Girls in the late-bloomer group were about 15.5 years old when they started dating, about a year older than boys, the researchers said. Students with high academic goals were more likely to be late bloomers. Caveat: Teens may have over-or underreported their romantic involvement,
When teens start at 15 years old with actual group dating you can support the child's dating choices and supervise their decisions, she says. I saw it all throughout college. Those with very strict lives went wild in college. Your teen might want to date, but is she ready? Sixteen-- and even a bit older -- is a good age for dating, provided that the teen is mature, says Dr. Wish.
Many parents experience anxiety when it comes to their teenager dating for the first time. The age at which a teen should be allowed to date depends on your child's maturity and a bit of your own gut instinct. Although there is no set age at which it is appropriate for a teen to being dating, often many parents start to allow their teen to go on group dates around 13 or 14.
The most striking difference is the young age at which children now begin dating: on average, twelve and a half for girls, and thirteen and a half for boys. However, you might not recognize it as dating per se. The recent trend among early adolescents is for boys and girls to socialize as part of a group. 
1 One on One dating should be reserved for the later teen years, ages 16-18 (plus or minus a year depending on who your teen is). 2  Teens are more equipped in late adolescence to further explore what it’s like to date. “ 3 Trying On” and practicing at relationships is the developmental goal. 
There are a number of views on that right age for a teen to start dating. I personally believe that you should make the decision for your children based upon your own personal beliefs and an understanding of your teen's emotional and physical development. Although there is no set age at which it is appropriate for a teen to being dating, often many parents start to allow their teen to go on group dates around 13 or 14.
You should know that there is research that demonstrates that children ages 10-12 who begin steady dating often do more poorly in school and have more behavior problems. Thus, there is some agreement as to what is too young, but there is little understanding of a universal right age. Most experts believe that if teens under age 15 are allowed to date, they should engage in group dates exclusively and a responsible adult should be present. Although there is no set age at which it is appropriate for a teen to being dating, often many parents start to allow their teen to go on group dates around 13 or 14.
Depends on the kid-and the date. My parents said 16. I would say earlier if it is a group thing. It also depends on your relationship with your kid and how well you trust him/her, plus the boy/girlfriend and other friends. Brenna: Portland, Ore. The dating sneak attack. My Dad always said no dating until I was 16.
Recently, the children of two close friends have begun dating. One at age 16. Another at age 12. And it made me realize that we, as parents, have a pretty wide range of ideas on what age kids should be allowed to start dating and even on what dating means at various ages. My parents said 16. I would say earlier if it is a group thing. It also depends on your relationship with your kid and how well you trust him/her, plus the boy/girlfriend and other friends. Brenna: Portland, Ore. The dating sneak attack. My Dad always said no dating until I was 16.