The distance in between poles on average is: Walk poles - 0.90cm apart. Trot poles - 1.25 m apart. Canter - 3 m apart. One stride double - 5.5 to 6m when approached from trot and 5.5 to 7.5 when approached from canter. A two stride double - 11 to 14 m when approached in canter. Bounce from trot - 2.75 to 3.65 m Bounce from canter -3.65 to 4 m. Where and how you place the poles may depend on your purpose in setting ground poles in the first place. If your intention is to get the horse to pay attention to his feet and adjust his stride, you may want to vary the distance.
If you want to put a string of trot poles in front of a cross rail, then the trot poles would be the usual 4 ft apart and then around 14-16 ft from the last pole to the jump. This is what I was taught, but of course, its difficult to tell without knowing how big your horse is (or an idea of its stride). RE: trotting poles & cavaletti spacing. The easiest way to do it without takeing a tape measure with you is to remember 1,2. One of your paces/steps between each pole for walk, two or your paces/steps for trot. Then try the poles a couple of times with your horse and adjust if necessary for your horses stride.
Catherine. Hi Catherine, Trotting poles are an average of 4 to 4 1/2 feet apart, depending on the stride of the horse. If you are working in a group setting with many different sized horses, you'll just have to watch them and adjust them to the average distance. I would try about 10 feet first and then adjust accordingly. Where and how you place the poles may depend on your purpose in setting ground poles in the first place. If your intention is to get the horse to pay attention to his feet and adjust his stride, you may want to vary th
The horse's trot step is 3 feet. If the poles are spaced at 6 feet apart the horse will place the front feet for two steps on the ground in between the poles. Do not use one-step trot overs for inexperienced horses; it is easier for the horse to trot over 2 poles at 12-feet apart, or 6-feet apart. 
Report Abuse. Trotting poles should be 4' apart. This should be around one of your normal strides. Place one pole on the ground. Touch the heel of your boot to it and take a large-ish step. This should be where the next pole goes. For canter it is 12' or 4 human strides (not as long steps as trot poles)
Depends on the size of the horse/pony's strides. As a rule, trotting poles should be about 3 feet apart and canter poles 9 feet (for a 'bounce'). However these need to be altered depending on the horse's stride length. Bounce from trot - 2.75 to 3.65 m Bounce from canter -3.65 to 4 m. Where and how you place the poles may depend on your purpose in setting ground poles in the first place. If your intention is to get the horse to pay attention to his feet and adjust his stride, you may want to vary the distance.