Because you are adding weight (sulfate) to morphine (base), the  weight of Morphine Sulfate will have less morphine (base) in it.    For example: 20mg of morphine sulfate has ~15mg of morphine (the  other 5mg are due to sulfate molecule and 5 water molecules). This  is called the base equivalency.
The average dose of morphine depends upon several factors. Is it IV or oral. Even orally, there are several forms of morphine (immediate or extended release, liquid or tablet, etc...).
A usual adult oral dose of morphine is 60-120 mg daily in divided doses, or up to 400 mg daily in opioid tolerant patients. Recreationally, daily heroin doses of 5-1500 mg have been reported, with an average daily dose of 300-500 mg. Addicts may inject heroin 2-4 times per day.
Initiate treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets with 15 mg tablets orally every 8 or 12 hours. The starting dose for patients, who are not opioid-tolerant, is morphine sulfate extended-release tablets 15 mg orally every 12 hours.
Before taking morphine, 1  tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to morphine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the type of morphine tablets, capsules or solution you plan to take. 2  Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the inactive ingredients.
Morphine extended-release capsules or tablets work differently from the regular morphine oral solution or tablets, even at the same dose. Do not switch from one brand or form to the other unless your doctor tells you to. Measure the oral liquid with a marked measuring spoon, oral syringe, or medicine cup.
Morphine has a high risk for abuse and severe, possibly fatal, breathing problems. The risk for harm is higher if you use the wrong dose/strength, or if you use it along with other drugs that might also affect breathing. Be sure you know how to use morphine and what other drugs you should avoid taking with it.
1 tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to morphine, any other medications, or any of the inactive ingredients in the type of morphine tablets, capsules or solution you plan to take. 2  Ask your pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the inactive ingredients.