I saw in a magazine that I could shave 100 calories off the Iced Capp if I ordered an Iced Capp with milk and not creme. When I got it... yuck! The brown stuff which is the coffee and Ice is 95%, and the milk is 5%. Has anyone tried this and gotten the same bitter and dark Iced Capp. Iced Capp at Tim Hortons tends to be made out of the shot of milk/creme/chocolate milk, and then the paste which has the ice and coffee in it. The ice paste is dark brown, and the milk was white. It was much more bitter.
Iced Capp™. Say hello to the ultimate drink of summer. Made with our signature base and cream, our Iced Capp™ blended frozen coffee beverage delivers that, deep down, creamy cool taste you crave. One of the bases he frequented, was Kandahar which is an international base. Because of our Canadian friends, there was a Tim Horton's on the base. Ray couldn't wait to email me this picture. Tim Horton's made his time MUCH more bearable during the deployment.
A large Hazelnut Iced Coffe (17 fl oz) has approximately 270 calories, and approximately 100 of the calories are from fat. A typical snow cone from a vendor … can be anywhere from 200 to  over 500 calories depending on size. If you make your own, you can  monitor how much you put in. There are on average about 66 calories  in 1 ounce of syrup.
Calories in Iced Coffee. The favorite choice for the term Iced Coffee is 1 coffee cup of Iced Coffee which has about 26 calories. Calorie and nutritional information for a variety of types and serving sizes of Iced Coffee is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Carbs or Fats) using the filter below: 
The Oreo Donut seems to be available for sale only in the United States for now. In addition, for a measly $2.49 USD, the Iced Capp has also been outfitted with Oreo branding and flavouring. An Iced Capp with Oreo, whipped cream and Oreo crumbs on top just sounds mind blowing. Update: For those interested, the Oreo Supreme Iced Capp and Oreo Donut are also coming to Canada on July 7th! 
It all depends on the size of your coffee and how much milk you are adding to it. As a guide 100ml of regular full fat milk contains around 68 calories and skim milk has around 34 calories per 100ml. 
There are no calories in the shaved ice itself; the calories come  from the syrup put into it and can vary depending on how much is  used. A typical snow cone from a vendor … can be anywhere from 200 to  over 500 calories depending on size. If you make your own, you can  monitor how much you put in. There are on average about 66 calories  in 1 ounce of syrup.
My son, a US Navy Corpsman was on leave from Camp Pendleton Marine Base in California. I INSISTED that he try the butter carmel ice capp.. Every time he has been near a Tim Horton's he NEEDS to stop and get one as there are no Tim Horton's near him. Last year (2010) he deployed with the Army to Afghanistan. One of the bases he frequented, was Kandahar which is an international base. Because of our Canadian friends, there was a Tim Horton's on the base. Ray couldn't wait to email me this picture. Tim Horton's made his time MUCH more bearable during the deployment.
Calories are a measure of the amount of energy a food provides. Based on a typical 2,000-calorie diet, approximately 250 to 300 calories can be consumed in the form of discretionary foods, such as an iced cap. For example, one medium-sized iced cap from Tim Horton’s is 16 oz. When choosing cream as the dairy base, the beverage provides a total of 410 calories. When opting for milk, the amount of calories is much lower at 250 calories. Lastly, a medium-sized iced cap with chocolate milk as the base contains 270 calories. The amount of fat found in one medium iced cap with cream is very high at 21g in the 16 oz serving. If you choose to enjoy the beverage with milk or chocolate milk, you cut 90 percent of fat out of the drink to 1 to 2g per