THE BLACKFEET NATION. As the largest and most dominant Indian tribe in Montana, the Blackfeet have played a significant role in the state's history. Like so many of the Great Plains tribes, the Blackfeet originally lived far to the east in the area north of the Great Lakes. It is thought they even ranged as far east as Labrador.
The nation of Blackfoot Indians actually consists of four different tribes: the Blackfoot/Siksika, Blood/Kainai, Pikuni/Peigan, and North Peigan Pikuni tribes. Situated mostly in the Northwest United States and in Canada after migrating from the Great Lakes region, the Blackfoot Indians have a rich history and culture. Blackfoot Indians were legendary buffalo hunters, and lived a mostly nomadic life following the buffalo herds. Until the buffalo were nearly wiped out by unlimited hunting by white settlers, the Blackfoot Indians thrived on the buffalo and the land, and by trading buffalo hides and other goods with other Indian
1 The Blackfoot Indians were skilled huntsmen. 2  They primarily hunted buffalo like many other Plains Indians and traveled in groups, when hunting, to cover as much territory as possible. 3  In the 1800's, the white men began hunting buffalo as well and caused the population to decrease drastically. General Blackfoot Indian Facts. 1  The Blackfoot Indians were skilled huntsmen. 2  In the 1800's, the white men began hunting buffalo as well and caused the population to decrease drastically. 3  Each of the four tribes, although independent, share one official language called Algonquian. 4  The Europeans arrival in the 1800's meant big changes for the 5  ... The
The Physical characteristics of the Native American Indian would sole depend upon the tribe, clan and family lineage you were referring to. There is no single characteristic that translates from tribe to tribe. Though some physical characteristics include Almond shaped almost oriental looking eyes. Lazy eyes in children. 
Blackfeet Indians. Named for their habit of dying their moccasins black, the powerful Blackfeet Confederacy controlled a huge expanse of the northeastern Great Plains, from the upper Missouri River in what is now Montana to the North Saskatchewan River in Alberta.
Characteristic of Blackfoot Indian Tribes. The term Blackfoot is derived from the English translation of the word ‘siksika’ which means ‘black foot’ and refers to the dark moccasins worn by Blackfoot Indian tribe people. The Blackfoot Indians were great hunters of buffalo who lived in nomadic tribes of between 80 to 240 people. They formed warrior societies into which brave warriors were admitted based upon their heroic deed, and brave acts of courage. The members of a Blackfoot Indian tribe spoke a language called Pikunii. 
The Blackfoot tribe is a group of northern Great Plains Native Americans made up of three sub-tribes that spoke the Algonquian language. The three sub-tribes are the Siksika, the Kainah, and the Piegan. The Blackfoot tribe was a nomadic Native American group that lived on the Great Plains. Learn about their society and how contact with Europeans changed their culture forever in this lesson.
Blackfoot Indian Tribe. The Blackfoot Indian tribe actually consisted of the North Peigan, the South Peigan, the Kainai Nation, and the Siksika Nation. Only one of the tribes, the South Peigan, were located in North America. They lived in Montana while the three other tribes were located in Alberta, Canada. Like the Apache, the Blackfoot Indian tribe was known to be great warriors. Bands were social units of the Blackfoot that usually consists of between 80 and 240 people.
Blackfoot Indian Facts. The Blackfoot, who are also called Blackfeet, Indians were originally a nomadic American Indian tribe that migrated from the Great Lakes region to the Northwestern United States. They lived in the Northern Great Plains, specifically in Montana and Idaho as well as Alberta Canada. General Blackfoot Indian Facts. 1  The Blackfoot Indians were skilled huntsmen. 2  In the 1800's, the white men began hunting buffalo as well and caused the population to decrease drastically. 3  Each of the four tribes, although independent, share one official language called Algonquian. 4  The Europeans arrival in the 1800's meant big changes for the 5  ... The