bag. A bag is a paper or plastic container that something is sold in. I bought a bag of crisps and a drink. They sell herbs in plastic bags. A bag of something can refer either to a bag and its contents, or just to the contents. She bought a bag of flour. He ate a whole bag of sweets. A bag is also a soft container that you use to carry things in. Mia put the shopping bags on the kitchen table. You can call a woman's handbag her bag. feedbag, nosebag-a canvas bag that is used to feed an animal (such as a horse); covers the muzzle and fastens at the top of the head. pannier-either of a pair of bags or boxes hung over the rear wheel of a vehicle (as a bicycle). plastic bag-a bag made of thin plastic material.
The 2.55 by Chanel. It Bag is a colloquial term from the fashion industry used in the 1990s and 2000s to describe a brand or type of high-priced designer handbag by makers such as Chanel, Hermes hermès Or fendi that becomes a popular-best. seller 
We’ve been making Bag Balm ® in the beautiful Northeast Kingdom region of Vermont for over 100 years. It's a time-tested solution for moisturizing even the toughest skin, as well as keeping skin soft and beautiful.
1 bag. noun \ˈbag also ˈbāg\. Tweet. : a container made of thin material (such as paper, plastic, or cloth) that opens at the top and is used for holding or carrying things. : a soft container carried by a woman and used to hold money and other small things (such as keys or makeup). 2. : something resembling a bag: as a (1) : a pouched or pendulous bodily part or organ; especially: udder (2) : a puffy or sagging protuberance of flabby skin b: a puffed-out sag or bulge in cloth c: a square white stuffed canvas bag used to mark a base in baseball.3. : the amount contained in a bag.4.
An empty bag may or may not be very light and foldable to a small size. If it is, this is convenient for carrying it to the place where it is needed, such as a shop, and for storage of empty bags. bag may or may not be disposable; however, even a disposable bag can often be used many times, for economic and environmental reasons. On the other hand, there may be logistic or hygienic reasons to use a bag only once. For example, a garbage bag is often disposed of with its content.
cunt-bag. sack-bag. etc. urbandictionary isa fucking cock-bag because it wouldnt accept my examples as just douchebag, fagbag, or assbag; no, the fucking shitbag of site wants me to type them in with a dash. what a cuntbag.
A bag (also known regionally as a sack) is a common tool in the form of a non-rigid container. The use of bags predates recorded history, with the earliest bags being no more than lengths of animal skin, cotton, or woven plant fibers, folded up at the edges and secured in that shape with strings of the same material. A bag may or may not be disposable; however, even a disposable bag can often be used many times, for economic and environmental reasons. On the other hand, there may be logistic or hygienic reasons to use a bag only once. For example, a garbage bag is often disposed of with its content.