Amal Clooney. by andrew on. Birth Name: Amal Ramzi Alamuddin. Place of Birth: Beirut, Lebanon. Date of Birth: 3 February, 1978. Ethnicity: Druze, Lebanese. Amal Alamuddin is a Lebanese-born British lawyer, activist, and writer. She is married to American actor George Clooney. Her father is of Druze background, from the town of Baakline, Lebanon, near Beirut. Her mother is from a Sunni Muslim Lebanese family, from Tripoli, Lebanon. 
11 photos: Photos: George Clooney marries Amal Alamuddin. George Clooney marries Amal Alamuddin – Actor George Clooney and his wife, attorney Amal Alamuddin, stand on a taxi boat on the Grand Canal in Venice, Italy, on Sunday, September 28. Clooney and Alamuddin married in Venice the previous day at a private ceremony attended by celebrities. 2 of 11. 11 photos: Photos: George Clooney marries Amal Alamuddin. George Clooney marries Amal Alamuddin – Anna Wintour, Vogue magazine's editor-in-chief, and Bruce Bozzi Jr., the executive vice president of the Palm Restaurant Group, arrive to the private ceremony on September 27.
Amal Ramzi Clooney simply known as ‘Amal Clooney’ is an eminent British Lebanese lawyer, author and activist. She is currently associated at Doughty Street Chambers as a barrister. Amal has specialized in International law, human rights, criminal law and extradition. Clooney was born on 3rd febtraury, 1978 in Beirut, Lebanon. 
George is married to lawyer Amal (Alamuddin) Clooney, who is of Druze and Lebanese descent. George’s father is of half Irish and one quarter German ancestry, with his other quarter being a mix of English, Scottish, and Northern Irish (Scots-Irish) ancestry. 
Mini Bio (1). Amal Clooney was born on February 3, 1978 in Beirut, Lebanon as Amal Ramzi Alamuddin. She has been married to George Clooney since September 27, 2014. 
Clooney “should be thanking his lucky stars, having snagged one of Britain’s most eligible bachelorettes.”. Amal Alamuddin, who married George Clooney on Saturday, is smart, beautiful and, by all accounts, a cracker-jack human rights attorney. 
Dek: Here's everything you need to know George Clooney's smart, stylish and sexy wife. George Clooney is one lucky guy. He tied the knot with Amal Alamuddin (now Clooney), a stunning and seriously smart brunette, in Venice, Italy last year, and Barbara Walters named her The Most Fascinating Person of 2014. 1. Amal Alamuddin may be the brainiest gal George Clooney has ever been with. Alamuddin got her English law degree at Oxford University, then continued her education at the NYU School of Law. She nabbed the Jack K. Katz Memorial award for her accomplishment in the field of law when her studies were done.
Clooney was born in Beirut, Lebanon. During the 1980s, when the Lebanese Civil War was in full scale, the Alamuddin family left Lebanon for England and settled in Gerrards Cross. She was two years old at the time. For the spring 2015 academic semester, Clooney was a visiting faculty member and a senior fellow with Columbia Law School 's Human Rights Institute. She lectured in professor Sarah H. Cleveland 's Human Rights course and spoke about human rights litigation to students in the school's Human Rights Clinic.
George Clooney has yet to speak publicly amid the rumors he's engaged to girlfriend Amal Alamuddin. Regardless, everyone is wondering who this woman is that could possibly have locked down one of the most eligible Hollywood bachelors. 
Amal Clooney (nee Née, Alamuddin: أمل علم ا لدين ‎; born 3 February 1978) is a London-based Lebanese-British lawyer, activist, an d author. She is a barrister at Doughty Street Chamber s, specializing in international law, criminal law, human rights, isnd extradition extradition For the spring 2015 academic semester, Clooney was a visiting faculty member and a senior fellow with Columbia Law School 's Human Rights Institute. She lectured in professor Sarah H. Cleveland 's Human Rights course and spoke about human rights litigation to students in the school's Human Rights Clinic.