autosomal-recessive inheritance, a pattern of inheritance resulting from the transmission of a recessive allele on an autosome. Males and females are usually affected with equal frequency. If both parents are heterozygous (Aa), each of their children has a 25% chance of expressing the trait of the recessive allele.
As with autosomal dominant inheritance, the proportion of affected males should be equal to the proportion of affected females in a given population. Examples of diseases with autosomal recessive inheritance include sickle cell anemia and cystic fibrosis. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele.
Autosomal recessive traits is one pattern of inheritance for a trait, disease, or disorder to be passed on through families. For a recessive trait or disease to be displayed two copies of the trait or disorder needs to be presented. The trait or gene will be located on a non-sex chromosome. X-linked genes just like autosomal genes have both dominant and recessive types. Recessive X-linked disorders are rarely seen in females and usually only affect males. This is because males inherit their X chromosome and all X-linked genes will be inherited from the maternal side.
As in autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele on the X chromosome are required for an individual with two X chromosomes (a female) to be affected with an X-linked recessive disease. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele.
For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is
Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene in question is located on one of the autosomes. These are numbered pairs of chromosomes, 1 through 22. Autosomes do not affect an offspring's gender. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait or disorder. 
Print. To have an autosomal recessive disorder, you inherit two mutated genes, one from each parent. These disorders are usually passed on by two carriers. Their health is rarely affected, but they have one mutated gene (recessive gene) and one normal gene (dominant gene) for the condition. Two carriers have a 25 percent chance of having an unaffected child with two normal genes (left), a 50 percent chance of having an unaffected child who also is a carrier (middle), and a 25 percent chance of having an affected child with two recessive genes (right).
Autosomal recessive: cystic fibrosis (CF), sickle cell anemia (SC), Tay Sachs disease. Genes are inherited from our biological parents in specific ways. One of the basic patterns of inheritance of our genes is called autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene is located on one of the autosomes (chromosome pairs 1 through 22). This means that males and females are equally affected. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait, one inherited from the mother, and one from the father
3.3 Autosomal Recessive Inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele are required for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele.