Neisseria meningitidis, often referred to as meningococcus, is a gram negative bacterium that can cause meningitis and other forms of meningococcal disease such as meningococcemia, a life-threatening sepsis. 
Meningococcal disease affects around 2,000 people in the UK and Ireland every year and about 1500 cases are laboratory-confirmed. Now that there is a very effective MenC vaccine, 85% of cases are caused by MenB infection 3. The disease can affect anyone of any age, but mainly affects babies, pre-school children and young people. Meningococcal meningitis and septicaemia are life-threatening diseases, but most people affected do recover.
Meningococcal infection is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in the UK and Ireland 1. Meningococcal bacteria (Neisseria meningitidis) can cause meningitis or septicaemia, or a combination of these diseases. Now that there is a very effective MenC vaccine, 85% of cases are caused by MenB infection 3. The disease can affect anyone of any age, but mainly affects babies, pre-school children and young people. Meningococcal meningitis and septicaemia are life-threatening diseases, but most people affected do recover.
Meningococcal septicaemia is an acute (sudden onset) infection of the bloodstream and subsequent vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels) with the bacteria Neisseria meningitidis. Neisseria meningitidis frequently lives in the upper respiratory tract with no evidence of illness. 
Meningococcal disease is a rare but very serious illness that usually appears as meningitis or septicaemia. ‘Meningitis’ means an inflammation of the protective coverings of the brain and spinal cord. ‘Septicaemia’ means blood poisoning, which is a more widespread infection throughout the body. Meningococcal disease is caused by bacteria called ‘meningococci’. There are a number of different groups of meningococci
Children and young people with suspected or confirmed bacterial meningitis or meningococcal septicaemia (blood poisoning) who have signs of shock (for example unusual skin colour or breathing difficulty) or raised pressure in the brain are assessed by a consultant paediatrician. 
Most people who get the disease have some symptoms of both meningococcal meningitis and meningococcal septicaemia; together these two forms of the disease are known as meningococcal disease. Septicaemia is the more life threatening form of the disease and is more dangerous when there are no signs of meningitis. Meningitis is the inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. Septicaemia is the blood poisoning form of the disease. The two forms of the disease have different symptoms. People who recover from meningitis and septicaemia may be left with a range of after effects that dramatically alter their lives.
A common outcome of meningococcal infection is meningitis. When caused by Neisseria meningitidis bacteria it is known as meningococcal meningitis. When someone has meningococcal meningitis, the protective membranes covering their brain and spinal cord, known as the meninges, become infected and swell. The symptoms include sudden onset of fever, headache, and stiff neck. Another common outcome of meningococcal infection is bloodstream infection, either septicemia or bacteremia. The more serious of the two is septicemia. When caused by Neisseria meningitidis bacteria it is known as meningococcal septicemia or meningococcemia.
Bacterial meningitis is more serious and can be caused by a range of different bacteria. Most cases in the UK and Ireland are caused by meningococcal bacteria. Meningococcal bacteria can cause meningitis, septicaemia or both. Meningitis is the inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. Septicaemia is the blood poisoning form of the disease. The two forms of the disease have different symptoms. People who recover from meningitis and septicaemia may be left with a range of after effects that dramatically alter their lives.
Introduction. Meningococcal disease is a rare but very serious illness that usually appears as meningitis or septicaemia. 'Meningitis' means an inflammation of the protective coverings of the brain and spinal cord. ‘Septicaemia’ means blood poisoning, which is a more widespread infection throughout the body. ‘Meningitis’ means an inflammation of the protective coverings of the brain and spinal cord. ‘Septicaemia’ means blood poisoning, which is a more widespread infection throughout the body. Meningococcal disease is caused by bacteria called ‘meningococci’.