Only in the North-Eastern part of Brazil is carnauba wax extracted from the carnauba palm. The three states with by far the most production of carnauba wax is Ceara, Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte. This part of Brazil is dominated by a semi-arid climate with a dry season from August to December. Draughts are common. The states in this region are among the the poorest of the 27 states in Brazil. What is the scale of the production of carnauba wax? In 2006, 22.409 tons of carnauba wax were being produced in Brazil. 3130 tons were solid wax, while 19.279 tons was carnauba powder.Between 1990 and 2006, 285.344
Trees in the tropical forests secrete this wax to protect their leaves which are constantly exposed to water in the form of dew and moisture. This means that your car is well protected from water when you use the best carnauba wax. About us. Carnauba wax is the preferred car wax of collectors and concours enthusiasts because it creates a rich, warm glow. It doesn’t appear to sit on the paint. It transforms the paint into a deep, liquid pool that shimmers under changing light conditions.
Brazil wax and palm wax, is a wax of the leaves of the palm Copernicia prunifera, a plant native to and grown only in the northeastern Brazilian states. Combined with things such as tints and dyes, carnauba wax can be used to create an enduring colored polish. Some reports says that along with carnauba wax combined with nisin can prevent many microorganisms, extends the shelf life of the products.(Hyun Jin Park,(2000), Hoffman, et al ., (2001). Vegetable waxes /Carnauba wax production is about 100 g for one tree in a year. It contains mainly fatty esters (80-85%), free alcohols (10-15%), acids (3-6%) and hydrocarbons (1-3%)
However, there are many grades of carnauba. Carnauba wax comes from the Copernicia Cerifera, a palm tree growing in the rain forests of Brazil. The young leaves are covered with a waxy secretion known as Carnauba. It protects the leaves from the strong sun and wet conditions. 
Where Carnauba Comes From. Carnauba wax is produced by the Brazilian tree of life, a type of palm tree that produces carnauba wax to coat its leaves. This wax helps to protect the leaves from harsh sunlight and sheds any rainfall or condensation to the roots below. 
In our experience, the highest concentration of carnauba in a car wax that can be applied straight from a tin at room temperature is around 40%. If a manufacturer is claiming a lot more, then it is likely they are simply *calculating* a lot more. That's why all those '100% Carnauba' claims have to be taken with a pinch of dodo poo. It's also important to realise that carnauba is just one part of a good car wax. The quantity and quality of other ingredients, like beeswax, lubricating oils and drying oils, are also critical.
Carnauba wax can produce a glossy finish and as such is used in automobile waxes, shoe polishes, dental floss, food products such as sweets, instrument polishes, and floor and furniture waxes and polishes, especially when mixed with beeswax and with turpentine. Carnauba wax is not very soluble in chlorinated or aromatic hydrocarbons. Carnauba is used in melt/castable explosives to produce an insensitive explosive formula such as Composition B, which is a blend of RDX and TNT.
Carnauba (/kɑːrˈnɔːbə/ or /kɑːrˈnaʊbə/ , carnauba, [carnaúba]), kaʁnɐˈubɐ also Called brazil wax and palm, wax is a wax of the leaves of the Palm copernicia (Prunifera: Synonym copernicia), cerifera a plant native to and grown only in the Northeastern brazilian states Of, Piaui, piauí Ceara Ceará and Rio. grande do norte Carnauba wax is not very soluble in chlorinated or aromatic hydrocarbons. Carnauba is used in melt/castable explosives to produce an insensitive explosive formula such as Composition B, which is a blend of RDX and TNT.
Without them there'd be no carnauba wax. So, no, we're glad to say that harvesting the carnauba wax from the leaves of the Carnauba palm (Copernicia Prunifera) is harmless to the local and global environment-a point that a concerned Mr Johnson (of Johnson's Wax) clarified in 1936. He's more famous than us, so we'll go with him on that. That's why all those '100% Carnauba' claims have to be taken with a pinch of dodo poo. It's also important to realise that carnauba is just one part of a good car wax. The quantity and quality of other ingredients, like beeswax, lubricating oils and drying oils, are also critical.