While Reiki is not a religion, it is still important to live and act in a way that promotes harmony with others. Mikao Usui, the founder of the Reiki system of natural healing, recommended that one practice certain simple ethical ideals to promote peace and harmony, which are nearly universal across all cultures. The word Reiki is made of two Japanese words-Rei which means God's Wisdom or the Higher Power and Ki which is life force energy.
Reiki is a form of spiritual healing using universal life energy channelled through the practitioner to the recipient. Reiki helps to harmonize body, mind and spirit for yourself or anyone you want to help. Reiki treatment You relax, fully clothed, on a couch or seated while the healer holds his hands on or above you. 
Reiki (/ˈreɪkiː/) is a form of alternative medicine developed in 1922 by Japanese Buddhist Mikao Usui. Since its beginning in Japan, Reiki has been adapted across varying cultural traditions. It uses a technique commonly called palm healing or hands-on-healing. The English reiki or Reiki is a Japanese loanword. Reiki (霊気, meaning spirit or mysterious atmosphere, miraculous sign), in turn, is a Chinese loanword lingqi (língqì, 靈氣 numinous). Atmosphere the earliest Recorded english usage dates to. 1975
Reiki is a spiritual, vibrational healing practice used to promote balance throughout the human system. Reiki does not involve physical manipulation or the ingestion or application of any substances, but works with the subtle vibrational field thought to surround and penetrate the body. 
Reiki is a spiritual healing art with its roots in Japanese origin. The word Reiki comes from the Japanese word (Rei) which means “Universal Life” and (Ki) which means “Energy”. Reiki is not affiliated with any particular religion or religious practice. It is not massage nor is it based on belief or suggestion. It is a subtle and effective form of energywork using spiritually guided life force energy. Reiki is the life energy that flows through all living things. Reiki Practitioners understand that everyone has the ability to connect with their own healing energy and use it to strengthen energy in themselves and help others.
Reiki (pronounced Ray Key) is a combination of two Japanese words rei and ki meaning universal life energy. Reiki is an ancient laying-on of hands healing technique that uses the life force energy to heal, balancing the subtle energies within our bodies. Either way, Reiki energies flow where they are suppose to. Reiki is a smart energy that automatically flows where the imbalances are in your body regardless of where the practitioner's hands are placed. 1  Touch Therapy. 2  Reiki Testimonials.
Reiki means universal life energy and is an ancient healing method that manipulates energy flow in the body. Reiki practitioners believe there is an energy force in and around the body. They believe that there is a flow of energy between the reiki practitioner and the receiver of the treatment. It is thought that reiki releases energy flows and allows the body's own natural healing ability to work. Reiki focuses on seven main energy centers, called chakras, in your body. 
A Brief Overview. Reiki is a Japanese technique for stress reduction and relaxation that also promotes healing. It is administered by laying on hands and is based on the idea that an unseen life force energy flows through us and is what causes us to be alive. The word Reiki is made of two Japanese words-Rei which means God's Wisdom or the Higher Power and Ki which is life force energy.
Reiki is considered pseudoscience. It is based on qi (chi), which practitioners say is a universal life force, although there is no empirical evidence that such a life force exists. Surveys of the clinical research do not show Reiki to be effective as a medical treatment. The English reiki or Reiki is a Japanese loanword. Reiki (霊気, meaning spirit or mysterious atmosphere, miraculous sign), in turn, is a Chinese loanword lingqi (língqì, 靈氣 numinous). Atmosphere the earliest Recorded english usage dates to. 1975
View full size image. Reiki is a therapy often described as palm healing or hands-on-body healing in which a practitioner places hands lightly on or over a patient's body to facilitate the patient's process of healing. Reiki combines the Japanese and Chinese word-characters of rei (spiritual or supernatural) and ki (vital energy). How it works. During a Reiki therapy session, a patient typically lies down on a massage table. The Reiki practitioner places his or her hands over (or directly on top of) the patient's body in various positions, starting at the crown of the head, according to Baldwin.