A Vendor Induced Management Buy Out (“VIMBO”) is a means of transferring ownership of a business to the continuing management. For this reason, it can often be a more attractive option than a sale to an unrelated third party. It can also give significant tax advantages to the selling owner (up to 50% of gross earnings) compared with continuing to own the business and extracting income through salaries and dividends.
VIMBO.  A commercially and tax efficient method of passing on a company to the next generation of family or next tier of management over a period of time, which works for the benefit of both the vendors and the buyers.. A V endor I nspired M anagement B uy O ut is:  A commercially and tax efficient method of passing on a company to the next generation of family or next tier of management over a period of time, which works for the benefit of both the vendors and the buyers .. Unlike under a traditional MBO, the whole process is controlled and driven by the Vendor
It involves selling a controlling interest in the business to management but there is no requirement for the existing owner to necessarily sell 100% of the business or to end his involvement with the business. For this reason, it can often be a more attractive option than a sale to an unrelated third party. It can also give significant tax advantages to the selling owner (up to 50% of gross earnings) compared with continuing to own the business and extracting income through salaries and dividends.
Glovers have recently advised on a VIMBO transaction when Paul Gilks advised the management on the acquisition of a software house with an industry leading product in the social housing sector from the retiring owners. For this reason, it can often be a more attractive option than a sale to an unrelated third party. It can also give significant tax advantages to the selling owner (up to 50% of gross earnings) compared with continuing to own the business and extracting income through salaries and dividends.
Belief; the assent of the mind to the truth of what is declared by another, resting solely and implicitly on his authority and veracity; reliance on testimony. 
Who we are. Vimbo Steel Suppliers (Pvt) Ltd is a professional Zimbabwean owned company incorporated in April 2011 (Registration number 2304/2011). Vimbo was formed as a diversification strategy of a group of companies involved in retailing and farming. Its government vendor number is 704791. Vimbo Steel Suppliers is growing rapidly into a world class steel business entity with excellent capabilities in delivering the right products and services to its customers. When it comes to steel, there is no other company that does it better than Vimbo Steel Suppliers (Pvt) Ltd.