Introduction. A muscle haematoma, or “cork” as they are often called, is a common occurrence in many sports. These muscles haematomas are most prevalent in those who participate in contact sports; such as rugby and football (Smith et al., 2006)
Following a direct impact to the calf, damage to the muscle fibres, connective tissue and small blood vessels of the muscle may occur. This results in a 'bruise' to the calf and is known as a calf contusion. The muscle group at the back of the lower leg is commonly called the calf. The calf comprises of two major muscles one of which originates from above the knee joint (gastrocnemius) the other of which originates from below the knee joint (soleus). Both of these muscles insert into the heel bone via the Achilles tendon.
A “corked thigh” or muscle contusion is caused by a severe impact to the muscles of the thigh causing damage to these muscles, resulting in internal bleeding and subsequent inflammation. A haematoma (collection of blood in the tissues) in the quadriceps muscle may occur. A corked thigh is usually caused by a direct blow to the thigh muscle often during contact sports, such as football or rugby. Treatment involves rest, ice and compression and elevation of the limb.
A cork or as it is more formerly known a muscle contusion is a common occurrence in many sports, especially contact sports such as football, rugby and basketball. Contusions occur when a direct blow or repeated blows from a blunt object strike part of the body, or from a fall onto a hard surface. Suggestions for immediate treatment of a corked muscle include: 1  Stop your activity. 2  Rest the injured leg. 3  Use icepacks every two hours, applied for 15 minutes. 4  Bandage the corked muscle firmly with an elasticized bandage. 5  Elevate the injured limb above heart height whenever possible.
With a grade two Calf strain there is immediate pain which is more severe than the pain of a grade one injury. It is confirmed by pain on stretch and contraction of the muscle. A grade two Calf strain is usually sore to touch. A grade three Calf strain is a very serious injury. Usually the calf muscle is forcibly stretched beyond its limits and the muscle tissue becomes torn. A tear in the calf muscle is referred to as a calf strain and depending on its severity it is classified as a first, second or third degree strain.
(Also known as Calf Bruise, Bruised Calf, Corked Calf, Corky, Calf Haematoma). The muscle group at the back of the lower leg is commonly called the calf. The calf comprises of two major muscles one of which originates from above the knee joint (gastrocnemius) the other of which originates from below the knee joint (soleus). Both of these muscles insert into the heel bone via the Achilles tendon.
A Calf Muscle Injury is common in sports and are sometimes known as a ‘pulled calf’. The term ‘pulled muscle’ comes from the description of how the injury takes place. Usually the calf muscle is forcibly stretched beyond its limits and the muscle tissue becomes torn. A tear in the calf muscle is referred to as a calf strain and depending on its severity it is classified as a first, second or third degree strain.
Download the Quadriceps Contusion (cork thigh) fact sheet. Quadriceps contusion or a ‘cork thigh’, as it is commonly known, is the result of a severe impact to the thigh which consequently compresses against the hard surface of the femur (thigh bone). This often causes deep rupture to the muscle tissue and haemorrhage occurs, which is followed by inflammation. 
Calf contusions occur following a direct impact to the calf muscle from an object or person. This most commonly occurs due to a collision with another player during contact sports such as football or rugby, or from an impact from a ball in sports such as hockey or cricket. The muscle group at the back of the lower leg is commonly called the calf. The calf comprises of two major muscles one of which originates from above the knee joint (gastrocnemius) the other of which originates from below the knee joint (soleus). Both of these muscles insert into the heel bone via the Achilles tendon.