Cut your chicken breast into strips and cook until tender. Season with garlic, onion powder, salt and pepper. Set aside. Fill a pot of water 3/4 full with water and bring to a boil. Add your box of pasta and add 1 tsp. olive oil to prevent sticking. Cook 3 to 5 minutes until al dente.
Instructions. Preheat your grill to medium-high heat. Brush with oil and then season the chicken breasts with salt and pepper. Grill 5 to 7 minutes on the first side and then flip the chicken over and grill for another 3 to 4 minutes, or until cooked through. Cook pasta according to package directions.
1 Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat. 2  Saute chicken until no longer pink and juices run clear. 3  In a large saucepan combine ricotta cheese, cream, salt, Parmesan cheese and remaining butter. 4  Cook over medium heat until well combined, about 10 minutes.
1 Heat olive oil in a large saute pan over medium-high heat. 2  Add garlic and saute one minute, stirring occasionally, until fragrant. 3  Sprinkle with flour, and stir to combine. 4  Saute for an additional minute to cook the flour, stirring occasionally. 5  Slowly add chicken broth, whisking to combine until smooth.
Add chicken broth, cream, and uncooked pasta to pan. Turn up heat until mixture starts to simmer, then cover pan and turn heat back to a simmer. Simmer for 15-20 minutes or until pasta is tender. Remove from heat and stir in two cups of freshly shredded parmesan cheese.
Pour the Alfredo sauce in a pot and heat until warm. At the same time, pour 2 cups of water in a pan and add the broccoli and corn. Turn the heat to medium and cook until hot. Place some of the pasta on a plate, add broccoli and corn, place chicken strips on top of the mixture and top with Alfredo sauce.
1 Add fettuccini and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente; drain. 2  Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat. 3  Saute chicken until no longer pink and juices run clear. 4  In a large saucepan combine ricotta cheese, cream, salt, Parmesan cheese and remaining butter.
Heat the oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat. Sprinkle the chicken with the salt and pepper. Add the chicken to the skillet and cook until the chicken is cooked through, stirring occasionally. Remove the chicken from the skillet and keep warm.