A regular hexagon is made up of six congruent equilateral triangles, the area of an equilateral triangle can be computed using the formula s2(√3)/4, where s is the length of … one side of the triangle.
Hexagon Calculator. Hexagon is a six sided polygon containing six interior angles each equal to 120 o and their sum is 720 o. All sides of the regular hexagon are equal. The perimeter of hexagon is the lengths of all its sides. Area is the total area of all 6 triangles contained int it. In circle radius is the radius of the largest circle that will fit in the polygon.
If the perimeter of the hexagon is 72, then each side of the hexagon is 72/6 = 12. Therefore, one side of the square is also 12, since the hexagon and the square share a side, … so the area of the square is 12 x 12 = 144 cm.
= 4 cm + 4 cm + 4 cm = 12 cm. A square and an equilateral triangle are both examples of regular polygons. Another method for finding the perimeter of a regular polygon is to multiply the number of sides by the length of one side. Let's revisit Examples 3 and 4 using this second method.
Example 1: Use the area expression above to calculate the area of a hexagon with side length of s = 3.00cm and a height of h = 2.60cm for comparison with method 2 later. METHOD 2: Recall the formula for perimeter of our regular hexagon.
If I'm right, then the side-length of the hexagon is 1/3 the side-length of the triangle. If the equilateral triangle has perimeter 18, then it has side-length 18/3=6. So, the hexagon has side-length 1/3 of that, 2, and perimeter 2*6=12.
Calculate the apothem, perimeter and area of a regular hexagon inscribed in a circle with a radius of 4 cm. P = 6 · 4 = 24 cm. The area of a square is 2,304 cm². Calculate the area of a regular hexagon that has the same perimeter as this square.
A hexagon is a specific type of polygon which has only 6 sides. The perimeter of a polygon is the total length of all its sides and can be determined by simply adding all of the given sides. A regular hexagon is a special kind of hexagon where all its six sides are equal in length.