Step 1. Locate the code on the product packaging. The codes, which might resemble a number like “2061” or “0195,” are usually stamped on the top or bottom of a can, according to Mealtime.org, a service of the Canned Food Alliance. 
1 Lot Code: When manufacturers produce a product, they do so in batches. 2  Each batch is assigned a unique series of numbers that makes it possible for manufacturers to track exactly when a problem occurred and which products need to be recalled. There are two types of codes: 1  Lot Code: When manufacturers produce a product, they do so in batches. 2  Each batch is assigned a unique series of numbers that makes it possible for manufacturers to track exactly when a problem occurred and which products need to be recalled.
Identification of Batch, Code, Lot. A batch number or code number or lot number is a mark of identification by which the food can be traced in the manufacture and identified in the distribution, shall be given on the label. From the Food Business Operator point of view, it is better, if smaller quantity of the food product is processed in one lot. The Food Business Operator may note that the packages containing bread and milk including sterilised milk are not required to mention Batch/Code/Lot No.
Most U.S. food companies stamp lot codes and/or expiration dates on their products. There are two types of codes: Lot Code: When manufacturers produce a product, they do so in batches. Each batch is assigned a unique series of numbers that makes it possible for manufacturers to track exactly when a problem occurred and which products need to be recalled. 
For example, February 13, 2012 would be expressed as 2044 in Julian Code, since it is the 44th day of the year in 2012. In addition to the Julian Code there is an Alpha and 2 additional digits that identify the product's lot number for traceability purposes. The full code may read as 2044 B01 with the digits 01 referencing the lot number, and the B referencing the Month of manufacture. 
Write down the name of the manufacturer, the food product and the size along with any codes you find on the can. Codes below the words Best by, Use by and Sell by are often written in MMDDYY format without any encoding so that retailers and consumers are able to read and understand them. 
The answer is to look at the batch code on the product package. Batch codes are always printed on the package with different font from the product specification. If the package is a bottle, the code can be found at either the bottom or the side of the bottle. But figuring out the batch codes can be tricky. An example is this that I picked out from various beauty forums. The batch code on brands under Estee Lauder Group such as Mac, Estee Lauder, Clinque, Origins or La Mer uses 1 letter + 1 digit (or letter) + 1 digit.
Batch codes can be distinguished because they are applied later to already printed packaging. Select a brand to see instructions on how to look like for batch codes of the brand. Batch code is printed or stamped on the bottom of the product packaging. 4 digit batch codes (eg 1256) usually are printed or stamped on the bottom of the packaging. Cosmetics produced or distributed by Parfums Christian Dior : 4 character batch codes (digit, letter, 2 digits) (eg 1N03) usually are
Retailers also require date code information on secondary packaging to help improve stock turnaround and avoid food wastage. Batch Codes: As marks of identification, batch codes are used to help product traceability. All packages with the same batch code are considered to be the same in nature, quality, quantity etc. Coding solutions to meet your unique needs. Our experts will help you select and implement the right technology to apply crisp and durable date codes and batch codes onto a variety of packaging materials – even at high line speeds: 1  Crisp, clear and easy to read codes. 2  Easily visible to the end consumer.