The diastolic reading is when you hear no sound again, which means that the blood flow is back to normal. Blood pressure 100 plus your age. Medical research shows that as we age blood pressure rises slightly to accommodate an increased demand of oxygen and nutrients. It is completely natural for the first number (systolic) to be 100 plus our age. The pressure of the circulating blood decreases as blood moves through arteries, arterioles, capillaries, and veins; the term blood pressure generally refers to arterial pressure, i.e., the pressure in the larger arteries, arteries being the blood vessels which take blood away from the heart.
The term “prehypertension” describes people whose blood pressure is slightly higher than normal—for example, the first number (systolic) is between 120 and 139, or the second number (diastolic) is between 80 and 89. Prehypertension can put you at risk for developing high blood pressure. For older people, the first number (systolic) often is 140 or greater, but the second number (diastolic) is less than 90. This problem is called isolated systolic hypertension. It is the most common form of high blood pressure in older people and can lead to serious health problems.
1 High blood pressure is greater than or equal to 140 mm Hg (systolic) or greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg (diastolic). 2  Blood pressure readings in the prehypertension category (120 -139 systolic or 80 - 89 diastolic) indicate an increased risk for developing hypertension. For example, if systolic pressure is 165 (Stage 2) and diastolic is 92 (Stage 1), the patient would still be diagnosed with Stage 2 hypertension. A high systolic pressure compared to a normal or low diastolic pressure should be a major focus of concern in most adults.
This is an average blood pressure level chart according to the different age group. It is suitable for any age. The chart will help you to know what your normal blood pressure should be at your age.Be sure to have a regular blood pressure check-up and seek treatment plan whenever your blood pressure is below the minimum or exceeds the maximum level for your age range. Custom Search. 
The normal blood pressure range for adults is 120-80 mmHg (systolic should be below 120, while diastolic should be below 80). The ideal blood pressure for men and women (even for women over 40 and for women over 50) can be slightly different. It is a scaring fact that more and more children are diagnosed with high blood pressure every year. BP higher than the normal levels is referred to as high BP (HBP) or hypertension.
If you're a healthy adult age 60 or older, your treatment goal is less than 150/90 mm Hg. If your blood pressure is normal, maintaining or adopting a healthy lifestyle can prevent or delay the onset of high blood pressure or other health problems. Here's a look at the four blood pressure categories and what they mean for you. If your readings fall into two different categories, your correct blood pressure category is the higher category. For example, if your blood pressure reading is 125/95 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg), you have stage 1 hypertension
The second number, called diastolic blood pressure, is the pressure when your heart fills with blood. The safest range, often called normal blood pressure, is a systolic blood pressure of less than 120 and a diastolic blood pressure of less than 80. This is stated as 120/80. For older people, the first number (systolic) often is 140 or greater, but the second number (diastolic) is less than 90. This problem is called isolated systolic hypertension. It is the most common form of high blood pressure in older people and can lead to serious health problems.
The unit of BP is millimeters of mercury (mmHg). The normal blood pressure range for adults is 120-80 mmHg (systolic should be below 120, while diastolic should be below 80). The ideal blood pressure for men and women (even for women over 40 and for women over 50) can be slightly different. It is a scaring fact that more and more children are diagnosed with high blood pressure every year. BP higher than the normal levels is referred to as high BP (HBP) or hypertension.
Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased rapidly and significantly over age before matching. Systolic blood pressure increased from 94.4 mm Hg in age 7 group to 99.9 mm Hg in age 10 for boys and from 92.8 mm Hg in age 7 to 98.8 mm Hg in age 10 for girls. One potential limitation of our study is that we only compared the blood pressure levels among 7, 8, 9 and 10 year-old groups. As the age range in our study was relatively small from 7 to 10 years, whether our findings apply to children beyond the observed age range needs to be further assessed.