A: The bacteria that cause tuberculosis (TB) can develop resistance to the antimicrobial drugs used to cure the disease. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is TB that does not respond to at least isoniazid and rifampicin, the two most powerful anti-TB drugs. The reasons why multidrug resistance continues to emerge and spread are mismanagement of TB treatment and person-to-person transmission.
Extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR TB) is a relatively rare type of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB). It is resistant to almost all drugs used to treat TB, including the two best first-line drugs: isoniazid and rifampin. XDR TB is also resistant to the best second-line medications: fluoroquinolones and at least one of three injectable drugs (i.e., amikacin, kanamycin, or capreomycin). If TB disease is present, cough and feverwould be the predominant symptoms. XDR TB is a rare form of the disease that is resistant to the drugs routinely used to treat tuberculosis infections and is extremely difficult to treat.
Extensively drug-resistant TB, XDR-TB, is a form of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis with additional resistance to more anti-TB drugs that therefore responds to even fewer available medicines. It has been reported in 100 countries worldwide. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is TB that does not respond to at least isoniazid and rifampicin, the two most powerful anti-TB drugs. The reasons why multidrug resistance continues to emerge and spread are mismanagement of TB treatment and person-to-person transmission.
XDR TB causes the same symptoms that a person would develop with TB. If TB disease is present, cough and feverwould be the predominant symptoms. XDR TB is a rare form of the disease that is resistant to the drugs routinely used to treat tuberculosis infections and is extremely difficult to treat. The few treatment options available for XDR TB are less effective and associated with worse outcomes than traditional antibiotic therapies for
Drug-susceptible TB and XDR TB are spread the same way. TB bacteria are put into the air when a person with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, shouts, or sings. These bacteria can float in the air for several hours, depending on the environment. Drug-resistant TB (MDR or XDR) is more common in people who: 1  Do not take their TB medicine regularly. 2  Do not take all of their TB medicines as prescribed by their doctor. 3  Develop TB disease again, after having taken TB medicine in the past.
Diminishing Options for Treatment. XDR TB occurs when a Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain is resistant to isoniazid and rifampin, two of the most powerful first-line drugs, as well as key drugs of the second line regimen—any fluoroquinolone and at least one of the three injectable drugs shown above. 
Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR TB) is a rare type of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB) that is resistant to isoniazid and rifampin, plus any fluoroquinolone and at least one of three injectable second-line drugs (i.e., amikacin, kanamycin, or capreomycin). Drug-resistant TB (MDR or XDR) is more common in people who: 1  Do not take their TB medicine regularly. 2  Do not take all of their TB medicines as prescribed by their doctor. 3  Develop TB disease again, after having taken TB medicine in the past.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria that are spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. Because XDR TB is resistant to the most potent TB drugs, patients are left with treatment options that are much less effective. XDR TB is of special concern for persons with HIV infection or other conditions that can weaken the immune system.
Espanol. Español extensively-drug RESISTANT (TB XDR) tb is a rare type of-multidrug resistant (TUBERCULOSIS MDR) tb that is resistant to isoniazid and, rifampin plus any fluoroquinolone and at least one of three injectable-second line (drugs.i., e, amikacin, kanamycin or). capreomycin Drug-resistant TB (MDR or XDR) is more common in people who: 1  Do not take their TB medicine regularly. 2  Do not take all of their TB medicines as prescribed by their doctor. 3  Develop TB disease again, after having taken TB medicine in the past.