1 Antidepressants: Some antidepressant drugs, such as (trazodone (Desyrel) and (mirtazapine (Remeron), are particularly effective in treating sleeplessness and anxiety. 2  Over-the-Counter Sleep Aids: Most of these sleeping pills are antihistamines. 3  They generally work well but can cause some drowsiness the next day. 1 You should not take zolpidem unless you are able to get a full night's sleep -- at least 7 to 8 hours. 2  The FDA has approved a prescription oral spray called Zolpimist, which contains zolpidem, for the short-term treatment of insomnia brought on by difficulty falling asleep.
Sleeping pills should generally not be used long-term for chronic insomnia. If you have just one or two nights where you can't fall or stay asleep, it's better to try something else besides medication. That said, people with persistent, chronic insomnia—three or more nights a week for months—should seek treatment. But for the average person needing short-term help for insomnia, we have chosen only one of these drugs—zolpidem—as a Best Buy. Zolpidem is the generic version of brand-name Ambien. The generic contains the same active ingredient as the brand-name drug and is much less expensive.
Insomnia is a symptom and not a disease. The most common causes of insomnia are: 1  medications, 2  psychological conditions (for example, depression, anxiety), 3  environmental changes (travel, jet lag, or altitude changes), and. 4  stressful events or a stressful lifestyl
In this article. In some cases, doctors will prescribe drugs for the treatment of insomnia. All insomnia medications should be taken shortly before bed. Do not attempt to drive or perform other activities that require concentration after taking an insomnia drug because it will make you sleepy. 1 You should not take zolpidem unless you are able to get a full night's sleep -- at least 7 to 8 hours. 2  The FDA has approved a prescription oral spray called Zolpimist, which contains zolpidem, for the short-term treatment of insomnia brought on by difficulty falling asleep.
Behavior changes learned through cognitive behavioral therapy are generally the best treatment for persistent insomnia. Sleeping on a regular schedule, exercising regularly, avoiding caffeine and daytime naps, and keeping stress in check also are likely to help. Depending on the type, prescription sleeping pills may include side effects such as: 1  Dizziness or lightheadedness. 2  Headache. 3  Gastrointestinal problems, such as diarrhea and nausea. 4  Prolonged drowsiness, more so with drugs that help you stay asleep. 5  Severe allergic reaction
1 Benzodiazepines: These older sleeping pills -- triazolam (Halcion), temazepam (Restoril), alprazolam (Xanax), and others -- may be useful when you want an insomnia medication that stays in the system longer. 2  For instance, they have been effectively used to treat sleep problems such as sleepwalking and night terrors. 1 You should not take zolpidem unless you are able to get a full night's sleep -- at least 7 to 8 hours. 2  The FDA has approved a prescription oral spray called Zolpimist, which contains zolpidem, for the short-term treatment of insomnia brought on by difficulty falling asleep.
The risks and benefits of various prescription sleeping pills can differ. To find the right prescription medication to help you sleep, your doctor may: 1  Ask you several questions to get a clear picture of your sleep patterns. 2  Order tests to rule out any underlying conditions that may be causing difficulty sleeping. Depending on the type, prescription sleeping pills may include side effects such as: 1  Dizziness or lightheadedness. 2  Headache. 3  Gastrointestinal problems, such as diarrhea and nausea. 4  Prolonged drowsiness, more so with drugs that help you stay asleep. 5  Severe allergic reaction
1 Even a small amount of alcohol combined with sleeping pills can make you feel dizzy, confused or faint. 2  And alcohol can actually cause insomnia. 3  Never take sleeping pills longer than your doctor advises. 4  Some prescription sleeping pills are for short-term use only — such as seven to 10 days. If your best attempts to get a good night's sleep have failed, prescription sleeping pills may be an option. Here's some advice on how to use them safely. 1  Get a medical evaluation. 2  Before you take sleeping pills, see your doctor for a thorough exam. 3  Often your doctor may be able to find specific causes for your insomnia.