Big M Casino. The Big M Casino is a 500-passenger gambling boat that departs from the Little River dock weekdays at 10:45 a.m. and on weekends at 11:45 a.m. Seven nights a week the boat departs at 6:45 p.m. Reservations are required for every passenger at least 30 minutes prior to sailing.
Cruise the historical Intercoastal Waterway touring the scenic Little River and Calabash areas, then speed into the Atlantic Ocean for an exhilarating ride up and down the coast of North Myrtle Beach. Big M Casino Boat. 877-250-LUCK. Cruise the Atlantic while gambling on the only casino in
The Big M Casino boat features 22 table games such as blackjack, craps, roulette, Let It Ride, 3-card poker and dice. Popular slot machines on board include Video Poker, Wolf Run, Wild Wolf, Money Storm, Coyote Moon, Wheel of Fortune and Pot o' Gold.
The Big M Casino. Come experience South Carolina's most luxurious gaming yacht in beautiful Little River. Aboard The Big M Casino, you'll enjoy Blackjack, Craps, Roulette, Let-It-Ride, 3 Card Poker and the newest and loosest slot machines including everyone's favorite, Pot O' Gold!.
Passengers can eat their fill between trips to the casino to play such games as blackjack, raps, roulette or poker. The yacht cruises along the Myrtle Beach shoreline, departing from Little River, just minutes south of the town of Myrtle Beach. Sailings are year-round. The Big M Casino 4491 Waterfront Ave.
Dinner cruises in Myrtle Beach range from quiet, dinner-only trips along the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway to more lively buffet feasts aboard a casino ship that prowls the area's coastline. Myrtle Beach is a popular beach resort in South Carolina that lies on the Atlantic Ocean.
Situated along the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, it's just 20 miles north of the bustling Atlantic Coast city of Myrtle Beach. Little River is the only city in South Carolina that offers Vegas-style gambling aboard two large casino ships.
You'll enjoy your Big M Gambling Cruise experience: 1  5 Hour Plus of Fun Cruise-Vegas-Style Casino Action. 2  Craps, Roulette, Blackjack and More! 3  Loosest Slots in the State. “ 4 All You Can Eat” Buffet.