I have been exchanging messages with him concerning the difference between doing a Schema Compare, and the visual differences that are displayed on the screen vs. what is generated in a deployment and/or synchronization script. Here is what I believe to be an accurate summary of the two. 1) When doing a Schema Compare, numerous options can be set by the user that control how the comparison is done. These options can be set in one of two places. The first is by clicking the Options... button on the Select Source/Target Schema dialog.
To understand the difference between owners and schema, let’s spend some time reviewing object ownership. When an object is created in SQL Server 2000 or earlier, the object must have an owner. Most of the time, the owner is “dbo”, also known as the database owner. 
Finally, a particular type of well-formed, specific schema is called a script. A script is a very specific schema for a particular order of expected events in a particular context. Most people, at least in the United States, have a script for what happens when you go to a fast food restaurant. You walk in. You stand in line at one of the registers
Compare the schemas of two databases. By comparing schemas, you find the structural differences between the databases, display the differences in a table, and generate a DDL script that expresses the differences. Examine the synchronization script. You check the DDL script, and you can edit it before you run it. Update the target database
The schema-comparison action also generates a Data Definition Language (DDL) script from the differences. You use this file to synchronize the schema of the target with that of the source. For more information, see Compare and Synchronize Database Schemas. By comparing schemas, you find the structural differences between the databases, display the differences in a table, and generate a DDL script that expresses the differences. Examine the synchronization script.
To examine the synchronization script. On the Data menu, point to Schema Compare, point to Export to, and then click Editor. As an alternative, you can also click Export to Editor on the Schema Compare toolbar. The Transact-SQL editor opens in disconnected mode and displays the Transact-SQL synchronization script. By comparing schemas, you find the structural differences between the databases, display the differences in a table, and generate a DDL script that expresses the differences. E
In psychology and cognitive science, a schema (plural schemata or schemas) describes an organized pattern of thought or behavior that organizes categories of information and the relationships among them. Examples of schemata include academic rubrics, social schemas, stereotypes, social roles, scripts, worldviews, and archetypes. In Piaget's theory of development, children construct a series of schemata to understand the world.