Rheumatoid Factor (RF). Rheumatoid factor (RF) is part of the immune system’s overactive response. It shows up in the blood of about 70% to 80% of people with RA. High levels of it are linked to more severe cases. Drawbacks: It misses 20% to 30% of cases of RA. It also shows up in other conditions, including: 1  Chronic hepatitis. You could have these antibodies years before you get RA symptoms. This test can also predict cases of RA that could become severe. Drawbacks: It misses 10% to 15
About half of all people with rheumatoid arthritis have a positive rheumatoid factor present in their blood when the disease starts, but about one in every 20 people without rheumatoid arthritis also tests positive for this. Another antibody test known as anti-CCP (anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide) is also available. 
Blood tests. About blood tests. A patient with arthritis will have probably more blood tests than any other type of test because blood is the most easily and safely sampled body tissue and contains traces of material from every other part of the body. The most common blood tests include the following
Types. Other blood tests are sometimes used to check for or monitor rheumatoid arthritis, but they are not specific to the condition; these tests include erythrocyte sedimentation rate test, C-reactive protein and anemia tests. Identification. The blood test used to diagnose rheumatoid arthritis detects rheumatoid factor (RF) antibodies, which tend to be high in people with rheumatoid arthritis, according to Medline Plus.
Rheumatoid factor (RF) facts. 1  Rheumatoid factor is an antibody that is detectable in the blood of approximately 80% of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Sometimes rheumatoid factor can be detected in the blood of normal individuals and of those with other autoimmune diseases that are not rheumatoid arthritis. 1 In people with rheumatoid arthritis, high levels of rheumatoid factor can indicate a tendency toward more aggressive disease and/or a tendency to develop rheumatoid nodules and/or rheumatoid lung disease.
Most commonly, rheumatoid factor is used as a blood test for the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid factor is present in about 80% of adults (but a much lower proportion of children) with rheumatoid arthritis. 1 In people with rheumatoid arthritis, high levels of rheumatoid factor can indicate a tendency toward more aggressive disease and/or a tendency to develop rheumatoid nodules and/or rheumatoid lung disease.
When this antibody attaches to healthy body tissue, it can create damage. The RF test is not perfect for determining if you have rheumatoid arthritis. While 80 percent of people with RA display this factor, 20 percent don’t (Weinblatt, 2000). And 10 percent of people without rheumatoid arthritis test positive for RF due to hepatitis, leukemia, lupus, or other disorders (Weinblatt, 2000). 1 rheumatoid factor. 2  The lab will check for rheumatoid factor (RF) antibodies that collect in the synovium of the joint. 3  These antibodies are present in about 80 percent of RA patients. 4  erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein.
A. If your doctor suspects you have arthritis, he or she may have your blood drawn to determine which type of arthritis you have. In people with osteoarthritis, blood tests are not usually abnormal, but with other types of arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis, certain tests will help with a proper diagnosis. Here is a review of the different types of blood tests and markers used to diagnose arthritis and other inflammatory conditions. Related To Rheumatoid Arthritis. heart disease and ra, symptoms, exercise, juvenile arthritis, blood tests, pregnancy and ra, diet and ra, joint damage, © 2009 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.