If you’re enjoying breastfeeding, you can continue for as long as you and your baby want to. That could mean until she's a year, or even two years, old. There's no need to stop before you’re both ready. Most women set goals for breastfeeding of between three months and a year. Though in many parts of the world, it’s usual to breastfeed for two years or even longer. How long you keep breastfeeding for is your decision. It will depend on how you feel emotionally, as well as your personal circumstances. Whatever you decide, try to give your baby nothing but breastmilk until she’s six months old (exclusive breastfeeding)
If you and your baby are healthy after birth, it is best to breastfeed within the first hour after delivery. While in the hospital, keep the baby with you in your room so you can learn his hunger cues and respond promptly. Some newborns feed as often as every 1.5 hours, while others feed about every 3 hours. Breastfed newborns will feed 8-12 or more times per 24 hours (once your milk has come in).
How long you can safely keep expressed breast milk depends on the storage method. Consider these general guidelines for healthy infants: 1  Room temperature. 2  Freshly expressed breast milk can be kept at room temperature for up to six hours. 3  However, use or proper storage within four hours is optimal. 
How long should I pump each time? Pumping your breasts takes about the same time as breastfeeding, but with practice and a good pump, you can pump your breasts in as little as 10 to 15 minutes. While you are at work, try to pump as often as your baby usually feeds or for about 15 minutes every few hours. To keep up your milk supply, give your baby extra feedings when you are together. You can also pump right after your baby feeds, which will help your breasts make more milk.
Don’t worry, you don’t have to add weaning your baby to your To Do list! With a little organization you can keep breastfeeding as long as you like. You may want to express and store milk for the period when you will be away from your baby. Build up your supply of milk over time, weeks in advance if possible. 
A baby that is under two weeks of age will need to be woken at least every two hours for feedings, so that he/she does not dehydrate. With each feeding, your baby should be actively sucking and swallowing for at least 20 minutes. A mother also needs to keep to this, so that her own milk supply does not decrease. Remember, the more you breastfeed, the more milk you will start to produce. After two weeks, a mother can start breastfeeding on demand. Once you and your baby have discovered your own unique breastfeeding routine, things should start improving. 
You can store breast milk in a plastic or glass bottle with a sealable top, or in a sterile, sealable bag. Store your breast milk in amounts that you use every day to avoid wasting it. For example, if your baby eats 4 ounces in a feeding, put 4 ounces of breast milk in the storage container. While you are at work, try to pump as often as your baby usually feeds or for about 15 minutes every few hours. To keep up your milk supply, give your baby extra feedings when you are together. You can also pump right after your baby feeds, which will help your breasts make more milk.
1 Breastfeeding should ideally continue for at least 12 months, and as long after that as both mother and baby want to keep on nursing. ( 2 The World Health Organization recommends breastfeeding for two years or more 3  .). Mother and baby should sleep near each other to make breastfeeding easier at night. 1 Cow's milk does not have the vitamins babies need. 2  There is generally no need to give your breastfed baby water, juice or other foods in the first 6 months. 3 
You can add freshly expressed milk to breastmilk that's already in the fridge, provided it has been expressed on the same day. Bear in mind, though, that you can only keep it until the original milk is five days old. If your milk has been stored for some time, you may notice that it separates. 