Lease Fee Law & Legal Definition. Lease fee is defined as an ownership interest held by a landlord with the right of use and occupancy conveyed by lease to others; usually consists of the right to receive rent and the right to repossession at the termination of lease. For example, a single-family owner-occupied property has fee simple property rights that are absolute and unencumbered, unlike a leasehold estate where property rights are limited to use and occupancy for a stated term.
Most people only know of one type of real estate ownership; fee simple, also known as freehold. There are a handful of states that have another form of ownership known as leasehold. The difference in these two types of land tenure is very different and affects the value of the real estate. A fee simple buyer is given title (ownership) of the property, which includes the land and any improvements to the land in perpetuity. Aside from a few exceptions, no one can legally take that real estate from an owner with fee simple title.
In contrast, fee simple is defined as absolute ownership unencumbered by any other interest or estate. The conveyance of rights to others affects the property's value. For example, a single-family owner-occupied property has fee simple property rights that are absolute and unencumbered, unlike a leasehold estate where property rights are limited to use and occupancy for a stated term.
A Leased Fee interest is defined as: An ownership interest held by a landlord with the rights of use and occupancy conveyed by a lease to others. The rights of the lessor (the leased fee owner) and the leased fee are specified by contract terms contained within the lease. 
The rights of the lessor (the leased fee owner) and the lessee are specified by contract terms contained within the lease. This would typically be the property right addressed when appraising, for instance, a multi-unit office building with a series of long-term tenants. 
Example 2: Leased Fee Cap Rate To illustrate the difference between fee simple and leased fee cap rates, we modify Example 1 to assume that there is an existing lease on the property at a contract rent of $170,000 per year for the next three years. 
Definition of Leased fee estate. A lease contract to possess a parcel or property for a certain period of time. A leased fee estate is a conditional estate conveyance in real property for a specified period of time. The lease permits the lessee to possess, use and enjoy the property for the specified period. For example, John agrees to lease a home at the rate of $1,200 per month for two years as a leased fee estate.
The rights of the lessor (the leased fee owner) and the lessee are specified by contract terms contained within the lease. Leasehold Interest ¾ The interest held by the lessee (the tenant or renter) through a lease transferring the rights of use and occupancy for a stated term under certain conditions. Ownership Interests (Continued) Leased Fee Interest ¾ An ownership interest held by a landlord with the rights of use and occupancy conveyed by lease to others.
With a fee simple mortgage, a lender can take over ownership of the property if the borrower defaults. With a leasehold mortgage, the lender only has a claim on the leasehold estate, according to the American Bar Association. Typically that means that the lender's lien covers the buildings, but not the land itself. 
Leased Fee Interest is defined as - An ownership interest held by a landlord with the rights of use and occupancy transferred by the lease to others. Real Estate Appraisal - The Fee Simple Interest. The term fee simple in an appraisal is describing a group/bundle of rights associated with the ownership of the property.