The Earths interior (University of Chicago). The crust is the outermost layer of the Earth; it’s a thin shell of rock that measures just 30 km thick at the continents, and 5 km thick underneath the oceans. Just 1% of the Earth’s mass is made up of its crust. The Earth’s crust is the outermost layer of the Earth’s structure. In fact, the crust is what you’re standing on. But geologists have learned that if you dig down into the Earth, even just a few hundred meters, and things start to heat up. The inside of the Earth is hot!
The Earth can be divided into three large sections: the mantle, inner core, and outer core. The inner core is at the center of the earth. The pressure and temperature of the earth increases as one moves closer to the center. First comes the mantle, this is a layer that is bellow the crust of the earth. This is said to go down 2,900 kilometers; it's temperature is about 870 degrees Celsius. The inner core is about 6,400 kilometers below the earths surface. the temperature at the inner core of the earth is at the high is about 7,000 degrees Celsius. But compared with the sun the earth's temperature at the center of the earth is only about the outer reign of the sun
At its outer edge, where it meets the atmosphere, the temperature of the crust of the Earth is the same temperature as the air. So, it might be as hot as 35 °C in the desert and below freezing in Antarctica. But if you dig down, the temperatures go up. The Earth’s crust is the outermost layer of the Earth’s structure. In fact, the crust is what you’re standing on. But geologists have learned that if you dig down into the Earth, even just a few hundred meters, and things start to heat up. The inside of the Earth is hot!
Generally, the core is thought to reach temperatures about about 7000 K. 0 K is absolute zero, and a hot day on the surface of the crust would be around 300 K, so the core is probably about 23 times hotter than the surface. And that's on a hot day! But there's also a fair amount of variation. The mantle is ~2,000K or so and the surface is ~260K if you don't factor in the solar flux. If the interior of Earth cooled down the surface would freeze solid.
The crust is cold compared to the mantle but its not all that cold. The mantle is ~2,000K or so and the surface is ~260K if you don't factor in the solar flux. If the interior of Earth cooled down the surface would freeze solid.
The inner core is at the center of the earth. The pressure and temperature of the earth increases as one moves closer to the center. First comes the mantle, this is a layer that is bellow the crust of the earth. This is said to go down 2,900 kilometers; it's temperature is about 870 degrees Celsius. The outer core beginnings where the mantle stops and it extends further down to the center 2,250 kilometers. The inner core is about 6,400 kilometers below the earths surface. the temperature at the inner core of the earth is at the high is about 7,000 degrees Celsius. But compared with the sun the earth's temperature at the center of the earth is only about the outer reign of the sun. Phillip Chan -- 1999
The temperature of Earth's crust can range from -70 degrees Fahrenheit to +750 degrees Fahrenheit depending on location and depth. Higher temperatures would be recorded in reg … ions of crustal melting from magmatic intrusions. The temperature of the crust increases with depth, reaching values typically in the range from about 500 °C (900 °F) to 1,000 °C (1,800 °F) at the boundary with the underlying mantle.