Causes of hypotonia. Hypotonia (decreased muscle tone) is a symptom rather than a condition. It can be caused by a number of underlying problems, which can either be neurological or non-neurological. Neurological conditions are those that affect the nerves and nervous system. 
Abnormal muscle tone: Introduction. Abnormal muscle tone: The presence of muscle tone either increased or decreased that varies from what is considered normal. See detailed information below for a list of 14 causes of Abnormal muscle tone, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
Description. Hypotonia, also called floppy infant syndrome or infantile hypotonia, is a condition of decreased muscle tone. The low muscle tone can be caused by a variety of conditions and is often indicative of the presence of an underlying central nervous system disorder, genetic disorder, or muscle disorder. Muscle tone is the amount of tension or resistance to movement in a muscle. Definition. Hypotonia, or severely decreased muscle tone, is seen primarily in children. Low-toned muscles contract very slowly in response to a stimulus and cannot maintain a contraction for as long as a normal muscle. Hypotonia is a symptom that can be caused by many different conditions.
Andrew Adesman. pediatric development expert. A child is said to have low muscle tone — hypotonia — if his muscles are on the loose, floppy side. You may find it unusually easy to move your child's arms and legs when they are relaxed, or that he seems to slip through your arms when you pick him up. Although hypotonia is not a well-understood phenomenon, children with low muscle tone often have delayed motor skills, muscle weakness, and / or coordination problems.
Muscle tone refers to passive tension of muscles when they are relaxed, and its associated with firmness, strength and definition. There are hundreds of muscles in the human body. However, muscle tone is generally attributed to the class of muscles that are connected to your skeleton's bones and are responsible for everyday movement, called skeletal muscles.
The first thing to understand is that low muscle tone is a not a condition or a diagnosis. There are a number of conditions that affect the brain and muscles where hypotonia (low muscle tone) is a symptom. It is also important to understand that this muscle tightness can be an important underlying cause of some of the difficulties experienced by children with a diagnosis of low muscle tone. Poor sitting posture is usually caused by a mixture of tightness, weakness and sometimes poor coordination.
Hypotonia is a medical term used to describe decreased muscle tone. Normally, even when relaxed, muscles have a very small amount of contraction that gives them a springy feel and provides some resistance to passive movement. It is not the same as muscle weakness, although the two conditions can co-exist. Muscle tone is regulated by signals that travel from the brain to the nerves and tell the muscles to contract. Hypotonia can happen from damage to the brain, spinal cord, nerves, or muscles. The damage can be the result of trauma, environmental factors, or genetic, muscle, or central nervous system disorders.
Hypotonia, also known as floppy baby syndrome, is a state of low muscle tone (the amount of tension or resistance to stretch in a muscle), often involving reduced muscle strength. Children with normal muscle tone are expected to achieve certain physical abilities within an average timeframe after birth. Most low-tone infants have delayed developmental milestones, but the length of delay can vary widely. Motor skills are particularly susceptible to the low-tone disability.
Introduction. Hypotonia is the medical term for decreased muscle tone. Healthy muscles are never fully relaxed. They retain a certain amount of tension and stiffness (muscle tone) that can be felt as resistance to movement. 