Overview. A comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP -14) includes 14 different blood tests that provide information on the levels of glucose, calcium, proteins, and electrolytes in one’s body, as well as information on liver and kidney functioning. The test is often ordered as a part of a yearly health check. 
The comprehensive metabolic panel, or chemical screen, (CMP; CPT code 80053) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool. The CMP is an expanded version of the basic metabolic panel (BMP), which does not include liver tests. A CMP (or BMP) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination, or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease, such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension.
Description: A Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP) is a broad screening test which is used to evaluate organ function and electrolyte balance as well as aid in the diagnosis of conditions such as diabetes, liver disease, and kidney disease. 
Comprehensive Metabolic Panel. A comprehensive metabolic panel is a group of blood tests. They provide an overall picture of your body's chemical balance and metabolism. Metabolism refers to all the physical and chemical processes in the body that use energy. Reference from A.D.A.M. 
Details. CMP-14 - The Comprehensive Metabolic Panel is a group of 14 laboratory tests ordered to give information about the current status of your liver, kidneys, and electrolyte and acid/base balance. The test gives the current status of your blood sugar and blood proteins also. Comprehensive Metabolic Panel CMP-14 Includes:Glucose-Blood sugar level, the most direct test to discover diabetes, may be used not only to identify diabetes, but also to evaluate how one controls the disease.
The Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP) includes 14 essential tests that are typically requested by your doctor as part of a routine check‐up or annual physical. 
Topic Overview. A comprehensive metabolic panel is a blood test that measures your sugar (glucose) level, electrolyte and fluid balance, kidney function, and liver function. Glucose is a type of sugar your body uses for energy. Electrolytes keep your body's fluids in balance. It also controls the amounts of glucose, protein, and fat in the blood and releases substances that keep your immune system healthy. Your doctor may order a comprehensive metabolic panel as part of a regular health examination.
A Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP-14) Blood Test is a group of 14 tests that gives important information about the current status of your health. The complete metabolic panel CMP-14 is one of the most popular lab tests ordered. Comprehensive Metabolic Panel CMP-14 Includes:Glucose-Blood sugar level, the most direct test to discover diabetes, may be used not only to identify diabetes, but also to evaluate how one controls the disease.