How much acupuncture costs depends on the length of the treatment. The cost is determined by the acupuncturist and it is usually in line with other acupuncturists in the same area. It is always best to enquire about the cost of the treatment when you are making your appointment. A treatment session with an acupuncturist can cost anywhere from $25 to $80 depending on the practitioner. This generally includes the diagnosis and treatment
Depending on where you live and the cost of living the prices vary. Acupuncturists (at least in California) go to a Master's degree program for 4 years. That is 4 years-year round (no summers off). Practice: Community Acupuncture Network. I'm in Boise and there is a community clinic here that is amazing that charges $15-$40 per treatment. I pay $30 because that's what I can afford. The clinic is so beautiful and the acupuncturists are wonderful.
1 A normal visit for acupuncture will cost between $60-$120, according to acufinder.com. 2  This cost will be on the higher side for the initial visit since a complete medical history and physical exam must be completed. 1 This cost will be on the higher side for the initial visit since a complete medical history and physical exam must be completed. 2  The average acupuncture cost for a routine acupuncture session is about $75.
Q: How much does acupuncture normally cost, and how many treatments do you normally have to have. A: Prices for acupuncture treatment vary considerably across the country. In London, the cost of a first treatment, which can take anywhere between an hour and an hour and a half, can range from £50-£70, with ordinary appointments of between half an hour and an hour between £35-£50. In the rest of the country the ranges are sometimes about £10 lower.
1 Fees for an initial visit range from $75 to $95 for an acupuncture session and medical consultation. 2  Routine visits cost $50 to $70. 3  Costs are similar nationwide, and should not differ greatly between service offered by clinics or private practitioners, who may also be chiropractors. Practice: Community Acupuncture Network. I'm in Boise and there is a community clinic here that is amazing that charges $15-$40 per treatment. I pay $30 because that's what I can afford. The clinic is so beautiful and the acupuncturists are wonderful.
The cost of acupuncture treatments varies from practitioner to practitioner. You will have to consult with acupuncturists in your area for exact prices. Generally fees range from $60-120 per session. The initial treatment is usually longer and more comprehensive and usually costs more. While most practitioners have a set price per treatment, some offer a package price.
How much does acupuncture cost? 1  A normal visit for acupuncture will cost between $60-$120, according to acufinder.com. 2  The average acupuncture cost for a routine acupuncture session is about $75. 3  Some insurance companies cover the cost of acupuncture while others do not. 4  For example, an acupuncturist located in Los Angeles charges $125 for the ... 1 This cost will be on the higher side for the initial visit since a complete medical history and physical exam must be completed
1 Some acupuncture clinics offer discounts to patients who prepay for multiple visits. 2  For example, the Meta Morph clinic on New York's Long Island charges $80 for routine visits, but drops the cost 25 percent if patients by 10 sessions for $600. Practice: Community Acupuncture Network. I'm in Boise and there is a community clinic here that is amazing that charges $15-$40 per treatment. I pay $30 because that's what I can afford. The clinic is so beautiful and the acupuncturists are wonderful.
1 For example, an acupuncturist located in Los Angeles charges $125 for the first session, and the cost of acupuncture for subsequent sessions is $80. 1 This cost will be on the higher side for the initial visit since a complete medical history and physical exam must be completed. 2  The average acupuncture cost for a routine acupuncture session is about $75.
1 The average acupuncture cost for a routine acupuncture session is about $75. 2  Some insurance companies cover the cost of acupuncture while others do not. 3  Some companies will only cover it if you have a note from a physician recommending it or if the acupuncture takes place at a physician’s office. 1 This cost will be on the higher side for the initial visit since a complete medical history and physical exam must be completed. 2 