The world famous Inca site Machu Picchu is built upon a large wedge shaped fault block called a graben that was formed by a gradual subsidence downward of the block created by two parallel running faults, one near (north of) Cerro (hill or peak)Huayna Picchu and the other near (north of) Cerro Machu Picchu. The Inca located Machu Picchu squarely upon the ridge plateau between the two mountains realizing that the location is not subject to seasonal land slides as there are few steep slopes to utilize the lubrication of heavy rains and the pull of gravity.
Reason: Machu Picchu is one of the most important archaeological sites in the world. * * *. Machu Picchu is tangible evidence of the urban Inca Empire at the peak of its power and achievement—a citadel of cut stone fit together without mortar so tightly that its cracks still can’t be penetrated by a knife blade. When Machu Picchu was built some 500 years ago the Inca had no iron, no steel, and no wheels.
Machu Picchu was declared a Peruvian Historical Sanctuary in 1981 and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983. In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll. Machu Picchu was built in the classical Inca style, with polished dry-stone walls. Its three primary structures are the Inti Watana, the Temple of the Sun, and the Room of the Three Windows
Machu Picchu is a 15th-century Inca citadel situated on a mountain ridge formed by a graben, which is a block of land downthrown between two fault lines. The ridge spans the adjacent mountain peaks of Machu Picchu and Huayna Picchu in the Peruvian Andes' Eastern Cordillera, or eastern mountain range. The citadel was built at 8,000 feet above sea level, but is only 1,640 feet above the valley of the Unibamba River, which passes beneath it.
The location of this wonderful city is located to the East of the depression formed by the mountain Machu Picchu and Huayna Picchu systems with the Central Andes in the South of the country, on the eastern slope of the cordillera de Vilcanota just 80 kilometers from the city of Cuzco. 
Machu Picchu is a 15th-century Inca site located on a ridge between the Huayna Picchu and Machu Picchu mountains in Peru. It sits 7,970 feet (2,430 meters) above sea level on the eastern slope of the Andes and overlooks the Urubamba River hundreds of feet below. When Bingham discovered the site he was actually searching for Vilcabamba, the last capital of the Inca before their final defeat at the hands of the Spanish in 1572. The explorer found Machu Picchu largely intact, having apparently never been visited by the Spanish conquistadors. In fact, the only reference to the site at all in Spanish documents is a mention of the word “Picchu” in a 1568 document, the text implying that it belonged to the Inca emperor
Machu Picchu (in hispanicized spelling, [ˈmatʃu ˈpiktʃu]) or Machu Pikchu (Quechua machu old, old person, pikchu peak; mountain or prominence with a broad base which ends in sharp peaks, old peak, pronunciation [ˈmɑtʃu ˈpixtʃu]) is a 15th-century Inca site located 2,430 metres (7,970 ft) above sea level. In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll. Machu Picchu was built in the classical Inca style, with polished dry-stone walls.
It is situated on a mountain ridge above the Sacred Valley which is 80 kilometres (50 mi) northwest of Cuzco and through which the Urubamba River flows. Most archaeologists believe that Machu Picchu was built as an estate for the Inca emperor Pachacuti (1438–1472). In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll. Machu Picchu was built in the classical Inca style, with polished dry-stone walls.
Introduction. Tucked away in the rocky countryside northwest of Cuzco, Peru, Machu Picchu is believed to have been a royal estate or sacred religious site for Inca leaders, whose civilization was virtually wiped out by Spanish invaders in the 16th century. 