Speedi-Beet® is manufactured from beet pulp which has not had molasses added to it and is therefore around 95% sugar free. The beet pulp then undergoes a further patented process and is then cooked utilising our process, micronization. Where Speedi-Beet® is introduced care should be taken to offer in increasing amounts, initially, to achieve recommended levels. As Speedi-Beet® is highly palatable beware of overfeeding. As a guide, horses require 2% of body weight as feed per day. At least 25% must be fed as forage, or high fibre alternatives.
DO NOT FEED SPEEDI-BEET® DRY. Unlike other sugar beet products, Speedi-Beet® will absorb up to 5 times its own weight as water. The bulking capacity, however, is mediated by its patented production process and will improve the inherent digestion in the horse. Where Speedi-Beet® is introduced care should be taken to offer in increasing amounts, initially, to achieve recommended levels. As Speedi-Beet® is highly palatable beware of overfeeding. As a guide, horses require 2% of body weight as feed per day. At least 25% must be fed as forage, or high fibre alternatives.
Speedi-Beet can be added to any horses diet, mixed with grain and supplements, making the feed more palatable. Since Speedi-Beet soaks up more water, it is recommended as a hydrating feed. During winter months when horses tend to drink less, using warm water with Speedi-Beet adds to total water intake. Speedi-Beet vs. Beet Pulp. Speedi-Beet is beet pulp reinvented, essentially it has gone through a process forcing the fibres apart and extracting 95% of the sugars, making it a much healthier product for horses.
Speedi-Beet® is made from pure unmolassed sugar beet pulp which is a by-product of the sugar beet industry. Sugar beet is grown in Europe and North America as an alternative to sugar cane which is grown in tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. Where Speedi-Beet® is introduced care should be taken to offer in increasing amounts, initially, to achieve recommended levels. As Speedi-Beet® is highly palatable beware of overfeeding. As a guide, horses require 2% of body weight as feed per day. At least 25% must be fed as forage, or high fibre alternatives.
Sugar Beet. Speedi-Beet is made from pure unmolassed sugar beet pulp which is a by-product of the sugar beet industry. Sugar beet is grown in Europe and North America as an alternative to sugar cane which is grown in tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. It is mainly grown as a source of table sugar for human consumption. 
British Feeds-Speedi-Beet. Speedi-Beet® is made from pure unmolassed sugar beet pulp which is a by-product of the sugar beet industry. Sugar beet is grown in Europe and North America as an alternative to sugar cane which is grown in tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. 
Speedi-Beet is more palatable and once soaked has a mash consistency. Sugar beet pulp may be molassed containing up to 20% sugar. Speedi-Beet is manufactured from unmolassed beet pulp, with typical levels of 5% NSC. Problems may occur if too much sugar (or starch) is fermented in the hindgut. Speedi-Beet is one of the most healthiest, natural and simple ways to feed your horse. Regular beet pulp is usually prepared 12 to 24 hours in advance, making it susceptible to spoilage and attracting unwanted guests. Speedi-Beet vs. Beet Pulp. Speedi-Beet is beet pulp reinvented, essentially it has gone through a process forcing the fibres apart and extracting 95% of the sugars, making it a much healthier product for horses.
Speedi-Beet is made from pure unmolassed sugar beet pulp which is a by-product of the sugar beet industry. Sugar beet is grown in Europe and North America as an alternative to sugar cane which is grown in tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. It is mainly grown as a source of table sugar for human consumption. 
Cooked unmolassed sugar beet pulp. Speedi-Beet is unmolassed sugar beet pulp cooked via a unique patented process to produce flakes which need a fraction of the soaking time of traditional sugar beet shreds or pellets. With a Digestible Energy content similar to that of a conditioning feed, Speedi-Beet is a useful source of. calories and can be fed as the sole additional calorie source, alongside forage, with Lo-Cal, Performance or Stud Balancer supplying those nutrients which are likely to be lacking in a forage/fibre-only diet.