When that rate is abnormal or the cadence irregular, the heart may have an arrhythmia, also referred to as dysrhythmia by some experts. There are several kinds of heart rhythm disorder. A heartbeat can be too fast (technical name: tachycardia), too slow (technical name: bradycardia), or simply irregular. In fact, about 2.2 million Americans have a type of arrhythmia called atrial fibrillation-and that is only one type of rhythm problem. Some arrhythmias can lead to serious problems, including heart disease, stroke or sudden cardiac death.
Heart Rhythm Disorders Definition and Overview. A heart rhythm disorder is an abnormal variation from the normal heartbeat. Heart rhythm disorders involve abnormalities of one or more of the following: heart rate, regularity of beats, sites where electrical impulses originate, or sequence of activation of heartbeats. Heart rhythm disorder is also referred to as an arrhythmia. The primary function of the heart is to supply blood and nutrients to the body. The regular beating, or contraction, of the heart moves the blood throughout the body. Each heartbeat is controlled by electrical impulses traveling through the heart. The irregular beating results in a heart rhythm disorder, or arrhythmia. The electrical system regulating heartbeat consists of two main areas of control that are connected to a series of conducting pathways, similar to the electrical wiring in a house. 1  The sinoatrial, or SA, node is located in the right atrium.
A rapid heartbeat that originates in the ventricles. The rapid rhythm keeps the heart from adequately filling with blood, and less blood is able to pump through the body. V-tach can be serious, especially in people with heart disease, and may be associated with more symptoms than other types of arrhythmia. If you have symptoms of an arrhythmia, you should make an appointment with a cardiologist. You may want to see an electrophysiologist — a cardiologist who has additional specialized training in the diagnosis and treatment of heart rhythm disorders.
Depending upon the abnormality, the heart may begin to beat too fast, too slow, irregularly, or not at all. Heart rhythm disorders are often referred to as cardiac arrhythmias (cardiac = heart; a = lack of) but this is technically incorrect, since in most cases there is a heart rhythm, but it is abnormal. Cardiac dysrhythmia (dys = abnormal or faulty + rhythm) might be a better term. 
Coronary arterydisease, heart valve disease, heart muscle disease,and other cardiac disorders also may underlie moreserious arrhythmias, but the immediate cause for anabnormal heart rhythm is a malfunction in the heart’selectrical system. When the symp-toms of a slow heart rhythm are severe or debilitat-ing, a pacemaker usually will help. Treatment of heart block is similar to that of sinus node disease.
When symptoms of an arrhythmia occur, they may include: 1  Palpitations (a feeling of skipped heart beats, fluttering or flip-flops, or feeling that your heart is running away). 2  Pounding in your chest. 3  Dizziness or feeling light-headed. 4  Fainting. 5  Shortness of breath. 6  Chest discomfort. 
Transcript: Arrhythmia, or heart rhythm disorder, is a general term for an irregular heartbeat. Most arrhythmias are not dangerous, but some may indicate serious underlying heart disease and some can lead to serious problems such as loss of consciousness, stroke and sudden cardiac death. In fact, about 2.2 million Americans have a type of arrhythmia called atrial fibrillation-and that is only one type of rhythm problem. Some arrhythmias can lead to serious problems, including heart disease, stroke or sudden cardiac death.