A. Once your request is received, a physician or health care facility has 10 days to provide you with an opportunity to inspect your records. The law does not provide a specific time period by which copies of medical records must be provided.
Instead, the laws in your state regarding record retention would apply. HIPAA rules do require that you apply appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the privacy of information for as long as you maintain records. There is a 6 year retention period for HIPAA policies and procedures.
Hospices, nursing facilities, and rehabilitation centers in Alabama must retain medical records five years from the date of discharge or three years after the age of majority. Alabama birthing centers must retain medical records 20 years for adults or seven years after the age of majority for minors.
X-ray films are to be retained for seven years. Nursing homes must retain medical records a minimum of seven years after the last entry or retain until 24 years of age, whichever is longer. Physicians are required to maintain records for at least
In Workers' Compensation Cases, qualified medical evaluators must maintain medical-legal reports for five years. Health and Safety Code section 123145 indicates that providers who are licensed under section 1205 as a medical clinic shall preserve the records for seven years.
A. Yes, but not forever. Physicians and hospitals are required by state law to maintain patient records for at least six years from the date of the patient's last visit. A doctor must keep obstetrical records and records of children for at least six years or until the child reaches age 19, whichever is later.
The law also requires nursing facilities to maintain medical records for each patient. The records must be kept for seven years after the patient is discharged from the facility. If the patient is a minor, the records must be kept for one year after the patient reaches the age of 18, but for at least seven years. Information in the medical record must remain confidential and can be disclosed only to authorized federal, state or local government agents.
Medical records must be maintained for: a period of not less than five years, or not less than 10 years if no additional mammograms of the patient are performed at the facility, or longer if mandated by state or local law, or.