Sada (sah-dah) roti-is a rustic type of roti made with flour, baking powder and salt. Sometimes instant yeast is added to dough that results in a more crusty exterior. Of all the roti(s), sada roti is the simplest to make. Once the dough is kneaded, it is rested for 30 minutes before the dough is cut into large pieces and rolled into 1/4 to 1/2-inch thickness and cooked on a tawah. No oil is used to cook this roti. It is almost like toasting the dough
Sada Roti: is similar to naan and cooked on a tava. This type is very popular in Trinidad as a breakfast option. Paratha Roti: Roti made with butter, usually ghee, also cooked on a tava. Oil is rubbed on both sides, then it is fried, giving a crisp outside. When it almost finished cooking, the chef will to mash the roti while it is on the tava, causing it to crumble
Also roti is eaten different in from place to place. Roti in the Caribbean is most often eaten with curries or stews. The curry or stew can either be stuffed inside the roti bread and be eaten sort of like a pita. Or the roti can be broken into pieces and dipped into the curry sauce or stew.
West Indian Bread for Roti: To make the breads, combine the flour, baking powder and salt in a mixing bowl and make a well in the center. Combine the oil and water and add this mixture to the well. Using your hands, mix to form a dough. Knead for about 5 minutes, or until the dough is smooth. 
Wrap roti, often referred to as a roti, is popular in the Caribbean consisting of a curry stew folded tightly within a Dhalpuri roti. The stew within a wrap roti generally contains potatoes and a meat such as chicken, duck, goat, beef, conch or shrimp. Roti is eaten widely across in the West Indies, especially in countries with large Indo-Caribbean populations such as Trinidad and Tobago.
The roti wrap is the commercialization of roti and curry together as a fast-food or street-food item in the Caribbean. This wrap form of roti originated in Southern Trinidad. The stew within a wrap roti generally contains potatoes and a meat such as chicken, duck, goat, beef, conch or shrimp. Roti is eaten widely across in the West Indies, especially in countries with large Indo-Caribbean populations such as Trinidad and Tobago.
Roti is a type of Indian-styled flat bread. The cuisine of the Caribbean is influenced by India, Africa, China, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, Syria, Lebanon and the Indigenous Peoples who are native to this part of the world. As such, the foods cooked and eaten every day, reflect the various influences. Of all the roti(s), sada roti is the simplest to make. Once the dough is kneaded, it is rested for 30 minutes before the dough is cut into large pieces and rolled into 1/4 to 1/2-inch thickness and cooked on a tawah. No oil is used to cook this roti.
Most families have their own, slightly unique recipe for roti, and make it on a regular, if not daily basis. The only three ingredients needed to make roti are flour, water, and oil, though roti is often finished with a smear of clarified butter or ghee before serving. The flour, good quality atta flour ground from semi-hard durum wheat, is combined with water and kneaded until soft.
(January 2015). Wrap roti, often referred to as a roti, is popular in the Caribbean consisting of a curry stew folded tightly within a Dhalpuri roti. The stew within a wrap roti generally contains potatoes and a meat such as chicken, duck, goat, beef, conch or shrimp. Roti is eaten widely across in the West Indies, especially in countries with large Indo-Caribbean populations such as Trinidad and Tobago.
A layered roti made with butter, usually ghee (clarified butter) but any butter can be used. Ghee is rubbed on both sides, then it is cooked on a tawa (a round, flat metal griddle used in Indian cooking). This gives the roti a crisp outside and small patches of light browning. It is made most often from wheat flour, cooked on a flat or slightly concave iron griddle called a tawa. Like breads around the world, roti is a staple accompaniment to other foods. In Iran, the two variants of this bread are called khaboos and lavash.