Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: 
Full Definition of CHAPERONE. 1. : a person (as a matron) who for propriety accompanies one or more young unmarried women in public or in mixed company. 2. : an older person who accompanies young people at a social gathering to ensure proper behavior; broadly: one delegated to ensure proper behavior. Tweet. : someone (such as a teacher or parent) who goes with children on a trip or to a school dance to make sure that the children behave properly. : a person in the past who went with a young unmarried woman to social events in order to make sure that the woman behaved properly
1. US: someone (such as a teacher or parent) who goes with children on a trip or to a school dance to make sure that the children behave properly. I was a chaperone on one of my son's school trips. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. : a person in the past who went with a young unmarried woman to social events in order to make sure that the woman behaved properly. chaperone verb. also chaperon /ˈʃaepəˌroʊn/. ˈʃæpəˌroʊn chaperones or; chaperons; chaperoned. chaperoning. chaperone. verb also /chaperon/. ˈʃaepəˌroʊn ˈʃæpəˌroʊn
by Colin McIntosh, The Cambridge English Dictionary is constantly being updated and expanded to reflect the interests of our users. One area of particular interest to our users is that of English Language Teaching (ELT), and a number of ELT terms have recently been added to the dictionary. a start-up technology company with a value $1 billion or more from fundraising The PayPal group’s close ties with the current crop of unicorns — a collection of some of the most valuable technology start-ups ever seen — suggest its influence is undiminished.
We get our word cap from Latin cappa ‘hood’, which may be related to Latin caput ‘head’. Cape (late 16th century), ‘a cloak’, also come from cappa, while the geographical cape (Late Middle English) goes back to caput. The same source gives us chaperone (Late Middle English) first recorded as a hood. A person providing protection or cover by accompanying another, dates from the early 18th century. The saying if the cap fits, wear it goes back to a dunce's cap, of the kind that poor performers at school had to wear as a mark of disgrace.
chap′er·on′age (-rō′nĭj) n. , chaperon-Chaperone comes from French chaperon, meaning hood or cowl, head covering, which was worn from the 16th century by ladies who served as guides and guardians; chaperon is the standard spelling and chaperone is a variant resulting from pronunciation. See also related terms for hood. chap·er·one. n. 1. A guide or companion whose purpose is to ensure propriety or restrict activity: to see and feel the rough edges of the society ... without the filter of official chaperones (Philip Taubman).
noun chap·er·one \ˈsha-pə-ˌrōn\. Tweet. : someone (such as a teacher or parent) who goes with children on a trip or to a school dance to make sure that the children behave properly. : a person in the past who went with a young unmarried woman to social events in order to make sure that the woman behaved properly
• CHAPERONE (noun). The noun CHAPERONE has 1 sense: 1. one who accompanies and supervises a young woman or gatherings of young people. Familiarity information: CHAPERONE used as a noun is very rare. • CHAPERONE (verb). The verb CHAPERONE has 1 sense: 1. accompany as a chaperone. Familiarity information: CHAPERONE used as a verb is very rare.
This site uses Copyright © Tim Bowyer 2006-15 • All rights reserved U.S. Patent No. 20040162719 • Howjsay in: Deutsch • Francais • Français • Italiano • Espanol, Español requests. errata etc 