Tramadol and Hydrocodone. bpcookie posted: Hello everyone, Ive been on many other pain meds. but the only ones that seem to help at all are Tramadol and Hydrocodone and usually only if I take them together. The problem is when I take them I have trouble sleeping. Hydrocodone causes me to be hyper. Kinda strange since it should cause me to be tired.
Now I can try to break away from this tramadol (ultram) I have a full bottle of vicodin and a bottle of valium ... and a very strong survival instinct. Every morning I just hate having to take these 2 1/2 pills to start my day. Today I cut it to 2 1/8 of a pill .... and I felt the difference by nightfall. 
In general, tramadol is considered to be a longer acting medication. We generally do not prescribe tramadol more than three times per day. Hydrocodone on the other hand tends to last a little bit less time around 4-6 hours. Thus, if it is been seven hours since your last tramadol dose most likely that medication is out of your system and it would be time for you to take another. Its been about 7 hours since the last tramadol dose I want to be safe as the the pain is getting unbearable. I think the safest thing for you to do is to schedule an appointment with your doctors so you can discuss a better plan for your pain control. Both tramadol and hydrocodone are narcotic pain medications that are used for moderate to severe pain. In most cases, it is not recommended that you take two different types of narcotic pain medications
Paroxetine (Pazil) can be taken with medications containing hydrocodone. Ultram (tramadol) is a selective mu-agonist and will compete for binding sites with hydrocodone, so it's really best NOT to take them together. You can take Tramadol if you have taken hydrocodone but the risk of seizure is much higher. Tramadol alone poses a higher risk for seizures by lowering your seizure thre … shold. So tramadol combined with hydrocodone does increase the risk for seizures. The half life of hydrocodone is 3.3 to 3.4 hours and a pill can have up to five half lives. So if you must take tramadol while on hydrocodone try to wait at least 4 hours between times.   You can take Tramadol if you have taken hydrocodone but the risk of seizure is much higher. Tramadol alone poses a higher risk for seizures by lowering your seizure threshold
The half life of hydrocodone is 3.3 to 3.4 hours and a pill can have up to five half lives. So if you must take tramadol while on hydrocodone try to wait at least 4 hours between times.   You can take Tramadol if you have taken hydrocodone but the risk of seizure is much higher. Tramadol alone poses a higher risk for seizures by lowering your seizure threshold. So tramadol combined with hydrocodone does increase the risk for seizures. Paroxetine (Pazil) can be taken with medications containing hydrocodone. Ultram (tramadol) is a selective mu-agonist and will compete for binding sites with hydrocodone, so it … 's really best NOT to take them together.
tramadol oral and hydrocodone-acetaminophen oral. tramadol oral, hydrocodone-acetaminophen oral Other (see comment). Tramadol may reinitiate opiate dependence in pts. previously addicted to other opiates; it may also provoke withdrawal Sx. in pts. who are currently opiate dependent. tramadol oral, hydrocodone-acetaminophen oral Other mechanism. Tramadol may reinitiate opiate dependence in patients previously addicted to other opiates; it may also provoke withdrawal in patients
Check with your pharmacist but to my knowledge you can take codeine and hydrocodone in the same day.Not together of course. I've seen other meds mixed without adverse reactions. An example would be those of us that take, let's say Morphine SR and use hydrocodone for break through pain. You really should not need that, on top of everything else you are taking anyways. And mixing hydrocodone with Tramadol can make you sick feeling and throw up, depending on the person. I have read once not to mix the two.