Amino acids are found in animal sources such as meats, milk, fish, and eggs, as well as in plant sources such as soy, beans, legumes, nut butters, and some grains (such as wheat germ). You do not need to eat animal products to get all the protein you need in your diet. Amino acids are classified into three groups: Every cell in the human body contains protein. It is a major part of the skin, muscles, organs, and glands. Protein is also found in all body fluids, except bile and urine. You need protein in your diet to help your body repair cells and make new ones.
Humans need the essential amino acids in certain ratios. Some protein sources contain amino acids in a more or less 'complete' sense. This has given rise to various ranking systems for protein sources, as described in the article. Animal sources of protein include meats, dairy products, fish and eggs. Vegan sources of protein include whole grains, pulses, legumes, soy, and nuts. Vegetarians and vegans can get enough essential amino acids by eating a variety of plant proteins. As a fuel, proteins contain 4 kcal per gram, just like carbohydrates and unlike lipids, which contain 9 kcal per gram. The most important aspect and defining characteristic of protein from a nutritional standpoint is its amino acid composition.
Protein is a nutrient needed by the human body for growth and maintenance. Aside from water, proteins are the most abundant kind of molecules in the body. Protein can be found in all cells of the body and is the major structural component of all cells in the body, especially muscle. As a fuel, proteins contain 4 kcal per gram, just like carbohydrates and unlike lipids, which contain 9 kcal per gram. The most important aspect and defining characteristic of protein from a nutritional standpoint is its amino acid composition.
Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion. Learn which foods make up the MyPlate Protein Foods Group and how much protein is needed for a healthy diet. . Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion. Learn which foods make up the MyPlate Protein Foods Group and how much protein is needed for a healthy diet. Also see a photo gallery.
Protein occurs in all living cells and has both functional and structural properties. Amino acids, assembled in long chains, are the building blocks of protein. Of the 20 amino acids found in proteins, some can be made by the body while others are essential in the diet. Amino acids are used for the synthesis of body proteins and other metabolites and can also be used as a source of dietary energy.
Proteins are essential nutrients for the human body. They are one of the building blocks of body tissue, and can also serve as a fuel source. As a fuel, proteins contain 4 kcal per gram, just like carbohydrates and unlike lipids, which contain 9 kcal per gram. The most important aspect and defining characteristic of protein from a nutritional standpoint is its amino acid composition.
Proteins are also used by the body to carry signals from one part of the body to another and to form structures, including muscles. Protein should account for 10-35% of your daily caloric intake. Many nutrition experts also recommend an intake of 1 gram of protein per 1 kilogram of body weight (0.4 g per pound). Consuming too much protein may be harmful to the body. High amounts of protein in the diet put stress on the kidneys and liver as they try to dismantle and dispose of the extra protein. Some amino acids can be made in the body and are not essential in your diet. Amino acids that cannot be produced by the body are called essential amino acids, which should be included in your diet. Proteins have many different jobs within the body. As previously mentioned, the body uses proteins for energy.
Protein sources:  Amino acids are the building blocks of protein and are found in a variety of foods. Meat, milk, cheese, and egg are complete proteins that have all the essential amino acids. Other sources of protein include whole grains, rice, corn, beans, legumes, oatmeal, peas, and peanut butter. For vegetarians, vegans and/or those who do not eat meat, fish, eggs, or dairy products, it is important to eat a variety of these other foods in order to get enough protein. List All Nutrient Information. 