Photo Credit: Stock.Xchng (_marta_). Peas are a well known vegetable that are actually legumes. Other members of the legume family are beans and lentils. The small, bright green balls are lots of fun to add to your diet! Health benefits. Green peas are high in protein and fiber and low in fat. 
Legumes are the seeds of the plant and are eaten in their immature form as green peas and beans, and the mature form as dried peas, beans, lentils and chickpeas. Vegetables can be broken up into different groups, with each group providing their own unique nutrients. The main sub-groups for vegetables are: 
The USDA Food Patterns also indicate that beans and peas may be counted as part of the Protein Foods Group. Individuals can count beans and peas as either a vegetable or a protein food. Green peas, green lima beans, and green (string) beans are not considered to be part of the beans and peas subgroup. Green peas and green lima beans are similar to other starchy vegetables and are grouped with them. Green beans are grouped with other vegetables such as onions, lettuce, celery, and cabbage because their nutrient content is similar to those foods. However, they are also considered part of the Vegetable Group because they are excellent sources of dietary fiber and nutrients such as folate and potassium. These nutrients, which are often low in the diet of many Americans, are also found in other vegetables.
The USDA also includes broccoli in the dark green vegetable subgroup. A cruciferous vegetable, broccoli is related to cauliflower and cabbage, including kale and bok choy. Like other dark green vegetables, broccoli is a nutrient-dense food. Salad Greens. Dark leafy salad greens, including leaf lettuce and non-lettuce greens, make up a significant portion of the dark green vegetable subgroup. Varied in texture and flavor, these mostly non-bitter greens are typically used in fresh salads.
Sweet corn, a starchy vegetable, has about 18 grams of carbohydrates in a single medium-sized ear. Vegetables with low amounts of carbohydrates include cucumbers, green onions and lettuce, each with 2 grams; summer squash and asparagus, with 4 grams each; and cauliflower, with 5 grams. 
Dark green leaf lettuce is high in folate and fiber. Dark green vegetables are a subgroup of the vegetable food group, one of five main food groups established by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to promote healthy eating. Salad Greens. Dark leafy salad greens, including leaf lettuce and non-lettuce greens, make up a significant portion of the dark green vegetable subgroup. Varied in texture and flavor, these mostly non-bitter greens are typically used in fresh salads.
The immature peas (and in snow peas the tender pod as well) are used as a vegetable, fresh, frozen or canned; varieties of the species typically called field peas are grown to produce dry peas like the split pea shelled from the matured pod. Pea pods are botanically fruit, since they contain seeds and developed from the ovary of a (pea) flower. The name is also used to describe other edible seeds from the Fabaceae such as the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), the cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and the seeds from several species of Lathyrus.
The pea is most commonly the small spherical seed or the seed-pod of the pod fruit Pisum sativum. Each pod contains several peas. Pea pods are botanically fruit, since they contain seeds and developed from the ovary of a (pea) flower. The name is also used to describe other edible seeds from the Fabaceae such as the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), the cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and the seeds from several species of Lathyrus.