The incubation period for pink eye is defined as the period between transmission and the beginning of symptoms. Once the virus or bacterium enters the eye, symptoms do not begin immediately. For a viral infection, the incubation period is generally 12 hours to three days. For pink eye caused by a bacterial infection, symptoms generally start one to three days after transmission.
For someone with pink eye caused by a virus, the person can be contagious for up to 14 days from the time that symptoms first appear. Keep in mind that just because you or your child was given an antibiotic, this does not necessarily mean that it is bacterial conjunctivitis. 
Please Share! When pink eye is caused by certain bacteria or viruses, the infected person can be contagious for several days to several weeks or more. Fortunately, people do not appear to be contagious during the incubation period  the time between when they are exposed and when pink eye symptoms begin. Schools and day care centers often require a child diagnosed with pink eye to stay home until the condition is resolved.
The incubation period for pink eye will vary, depending on whether it is caused by bacteria or a virus and the specific type. For a viral infection, generally 12 hours to three days later, signs and/or symptoms of pink eye will appear. Incubation Period for Pink Eye: An Overview. Pink eye is the layman's term for conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis is inflammation of the conjunctiva, which is a clear, thin piece of tissue that covers the whites of the eyes and the inner eyelids. There are several reasons why the conjunctiva can become inflamed.
1. Pink eye caused by virus or bacteria is highly contagious, but during the incubation period for pink eye, it is not contagious. Bacterial conjunctivitis becomes contagious when the symptoms start to appear and continue for 24 hours after an antibiotic is given. Incubation Period for Pink Eye. Conjunctivitis is also referred to as red eye and is quite common. It is also called infectious conjunctivitis. The front of the eye is covered with a thin tissue layer which gets red and inflamed.
Incubation period for pink eye caused by virus is around 12 hours to 3 days and a person can go back to work or school when the symptoms improve. That would be in 3 to 5 days. For bacterial infection, the person can go back to work 24 hours after antibiotic has been administered and symptoms start improving. Incubation Period for Pink Eye. Conjunctivitis is also referred to as red eye and is quite common. It is also called infectious conjunctivitis. The front of the eye is covered with a thin tissue layer which gets red and inflamed.
The incubation period for pink eye can range from a couple of days to a couple of weeks. More Info: Conjunctivitis, more commonly referred to as pink eye, can be caused by a variety of factors. The incubation period, that is the span of time that elapses between a person coming in contact with the infection and the symptoms ultimately appearing, depend upon what has caused the infection. 