The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years).
Becoming a Psychologist. To become a psychologist, after obtaining a bachelor's degree in psychology, one must attend graduate school and obtaining a master's degree and/or doctoral degree. At the master’s degree level, one can obtain a master of arts (M.A.) or a master of science (M.Sc.).
A bachelor's degree with a psychology major or substantial psychology coursework is generally required for admission to psychology doctoral programs (some also require a master's degree in psychology).
But here is a general timeline. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years).
You must have a master's degree and complete at least 100 hours of experience working directly with patients to become a licensed professional counselor (LPC). You may also have to pass an exam given by the state licensing board. Some states require counseling psychologists in private practice to have doctorates.
A master's degree is the minimum requirement for most psychologist positions, and jobs in some branches of psychology will require you to have a doctorate degree. Upon completion of a doctorate program in psychology, you will be awarded either a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) or Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov) reported in 2012 that some states will allow you to work as a school psychologist with a master's degree in psychology, but many states now require you to have an education specialist degree such as an Ed.S. in school psychology or a doctoral degree (www.bls.gov).