Ireland Currency. The Republic of Ireland adopted the euro, the official currency of the European Union, when it was launched at the end of the 20th century. Use of the common currency obviates the need for currency exchange for trade with or travel in the other EU countries that have adopted the c
This article is about the currency of the Kingdom of Ireland, the Irish Free State, and the Republic of Ireland. For currency of Northern Ireland and of the whole of Ireland from 1826 to 1928, see Pound sterling. The Irish pound (Irish: Punt Éireannach) éireannach was the currency Of ireland until. 2002 ITS iso 4217 code WAS, iep and the usual notation was the £ (prefix OR£ ir where confusion might have arisen with the pound sterling or other). pounds
Since 2002, the currency used in the Republic of Ireland is the Euro (€). The Euro is used in 17 countries, all of which are members of the European Union and you can use the same notes and coins if you are visiting another Euro-zone country before or after Ireland without having to exchange them. 
The Republic of Ireland is part of the European Union and has adopted the Euro as its currency in common with many other members of the Union. In contrast Northern Ireland which is, for the time being, part of the United Kingdom continues to use the Pound Sterling as the UK has not adopted the Euro as its currency. Nearly a thousand years (from 997 to 1928).
I have a lot of knowledge about Ireland and a great interest in anything relating to it. The currency of the Republic of Ireland is the Euro (symbol '€'). In Northern Ireland, the British Pound Sterling (£) is used. Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom and uses the same currency as the rest of the United Kingdom, the British pound (symbol: £, abbreviation: GBP).
Since 2002, the Republic of Ireland’s official currency has been the euro, a currency which, as of October 2013, it shares with 17 other European countries. For cash payments in the Irish Republic, you can use both euro banknotes and coins, while credit and debit cards are also widely accepted. 
It replaced The Irish pound (punt Éireannach éireannach In). Irish be aware though that in the 6 counties Of Northern (Ireland, Fermanagh, Armagh, Tyrone, Derry antrim And), down (STERLING) gbp is the currency. Used although some stores in the north may Accept, euros you may not get a favourable exchange. rate Be aware though that in the 6 counties of Northern Ireland (Fermanagh, Armagh, Tyrone, Derry, Antrim and Down), sterling (GBP) is the currency used.
The Euro (€) is the official currency of the Euro Zone and so the Euros you buy for use in Ireland can also be used in many countries across Europe including France, Spain, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia and Slovenia. Be aware though that in the 6 counties of Northern Ireland (Fermanagh, Armagh, Tyrone, Derry, Antrim and Down), sterling (GBP) is the currency used.
Using your money in Ireland: Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland have different currencies. In the Republic of Ireland the currency used is the Euro and in Northern Ireland the currency used is the Pound Sterling. The banks in Northern Ireland all issue their own notes and with this you may come across different variations in the notes. All coins are the same, irrespective of the bank from which they come.
Irish Currency & Money. The Euro has been the currency in circulation in Ireland since the beginning of 2002. It replaced The Irish pound (punt Éireannach éireannach In). Irish be aware though that in the 6 counties Of Northern (Ireland, Fermanagh, Armagh, Tyrone, Derry antrim And), down (STERLING) gbp is the currency. used Be aware though that in the 6 counties of Northern Ireland (Fermanagh, Armagh, Tyrone, Derry, Antrim and Down), sterling (GBP) is the currency used.