Statins. Statins are the most effective drugs for the treatment of high cholesterol, particularly for lowering LDL levels. They also have modest effects in lowering triglycerides and increasing HDL levels. Statins inhibit the liver enzyme HMG-CoA reductase, which the body uses to manufacturer of cholesterol
Physical activity and losing excess weight can also improve your triglycerides and overall cardiovascular health. If your triglycerides or LDL cholesterol remain high several months into hypothyroidism treatment, your doctor may recommend cholesterol-reducing medications. Valuable sources of fiber include whole grains, fruits, vegetables and legumes, such as beans and lentils
Thyroid problems, especially hypothyroidism can alter blood fats such as cholesterol and triglycerides. The published evidence is quite clear in documenting that the actual total cholesterol level itself is not the most important risk factor of cardiovascular disease. 
1 Your doctor might prescribe these cholesterol-lowering drugs if you also have low high-density lipoprotein (HDL, or good) cholesterol; high low-density lipoprotein (LDL, or bad) cholesterol; or if you have a history of blocked arteries or diabetes. 2  Examples include atorvastatin (Lipitor) and simvastatin (Zocor). 1 Niacin. 2  Niacin, sometimes called nicotinic acid, can lower your triglycerides and your bad cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, cholesterol). 3  It's typically reserved for people who have triglyceride levels over 500 mg/dL (5.7 mmol/L).
Iodine -- You can increase your iodine intake through diet and kelp supplementation. Kelp is rich in iodine. Foods that contain iodine are yogurt, eggs, fish and other seafood, radish, parsley, potatoes, oatmeal and bananas. Selenium -- Many people diagnosed with hypothyroidism were found to be selenium deficient. Selenium deficiency can reduce the activity of the thyroid hormones. Even if your thyroid is under active, and not true hypothyroidism, there can be an increase in total cholesterol levels, in addition to an impairment of your heart's ability to pump efficiently. Hypothyroidism can also lead to an enlarged heart and heart failure
Later, hormones help your body release triglycerides for use as energy. Because hypothyroidism reduces the rate at which your body uses calories for fuel and slows hormone production, your triglycerides are more likely to remain in your fat cells. If your triglycerides or LDL cholesterol remain high several months into hypothyroidism treatment, your doctor may recommend cholesterol-reducing medications.
High triglycerides and hypothyroidism can be managed through medications and dietary changes. Photo Credit Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Triglycerides are the most common form of fat in the body. Hypothyroidism is a disease in which your thyroid gland produces too few hormones. If your triglycerides or LDL cholesterol remain high several months into hypothyroidism treatment, your doctor may recommend cholesterol-reducing medications.