The River Nile is in Africa. It originates in Burundi, south of the equator, and flows northward through northeastern Africa, eventually flowing through Egypt and finally draining into the Mediterranean Sea. 
The Nile comes from the meeting of the White Nile and Blue Nile. The White Nile begins in Rwanda and the Blue Nile begins in Ethiopia. They meet near the Sudanese capital. The … river ends where it flows into the Mediterranean Sea at the north edge of Egypt. The Nile is a north-flowing river. The White Nile starts from Lake Victoria in Uganda The Blue Nile starts from Lake Tana in Ethiopia which is … about 200 miles from the capital Addis Ababa. They both meet in Sudan at Khartoum, and then empties into a delta and finally into the Mediterranean Sea.
| Filed Under: The World Leave a Comment. Since ancient times, people have wondered about the source of the Nile River, the lifeline of Egypt. But it wasn’t until the nineteenth century that explorers at last discovered where this great river began, at a great lake in Central Africa. This lake is called Lake Victoria. 
The White Nile rises in the Great Lakes region of central Africa, with the most distant source in southern Rwanda, and flows north from there through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and southern Sudan, while the Blue Nile starts at Lake Tana in Ethiopia, flowing into Sudan from the east. Best Answer: The Nile River is the longest river in the world, stretching for 4,187 miles. The Nile flows from south to north and is formed by three major tributaries: the White Nile, the Blue Nile and the Atbara. The Blue Nile has its source in the highlands of the African country of Ethiopia, by Lake Tana.
The Blue Nile, however, is the source of most of the water and silt. The White Nile is longer and rises in the Great Lakes region of central Africa, with the most distant source still undetermined but located in either Rwanda or Burundi. It flows north through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and South Sudan. The White Nile starts in equatorial East Africa, and the Blue Nile begins in Ethiopia. Both branches are on the western flanks of the East African Rift. The drainage basin of the Nile covers 3,254,555 square kilometers (1,256,591 sq mi), about 10% of the area of Africa.
The Nile is an international river as its water resources are shared by eleven countries, namely, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Congo-Kinshasa, Kenya, Ethiopia, Eritrea, South Sudan, Sudan and Egypt. In particular, the Nile is the primary water source of Egypt and Sudan. The White Nile starts in equatorial East Africa, and the Blue Nile begins in Ethiopia. Both branches are on the western flanks of the East African Rift. The drainage basin of the Nile covers 3,254,555 square kilometers (1,256,591 sq mi), about 10% of the area of Africa.
The Nile begins as two separate rivers, the Blue Nile flowing from Eastern Africa in Ethiopia and the White Nile starts flowing from either Rwanda or Burundi in central Africa. These two rivers combine to form the Nile River which then flows north until it empties into the Mediterranean Sea. 1  Comments (1). 
The Nile then flows through Sudan and Egypt before entering the Mediterranean Sea in north-east Egypt. However, the most distant stream and therefore the ultimate source of the Nile is the Luvironza River in Burundi, a tributary of the Kagera River. The White Nile starts from Lake Victoria in Uganda The Blue Nile starts from Lake Tana in Ethiopia which is … about 200 miles from the capital Addis Ababa. They both meet in Sudan at Khartoum, and then empties into a delta and finally into the Mediterranean Sea.
The Nile River is a famous river that is located in Northeastern Africa. It is mentioned extensively in research and literature related to Egypt and the Egyptian empire. It is 6,650 km (4,130 miles) long and runs through a total of ten countries. It runs from Lake No through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and Southern Sudan before joining with the Blue Nile to form the mighty Nile River. The White Nile is 3,700 km (2,299 mi) in length.
The River Nile is in Africa. It originates in Burundi, south of the equator, and flows northward through northeastern Africa, eventually flowing through Egypt and finally draining into the Mediterranean Sea. Map of the River Nile from space. Notice that the land is green on either side of the Nile. 