When you enter the United States on a student visa, you will usually be admitted for the duration of your student status. That means you may stay as long as you are a full time student, even if the F-1 visa in your passport expires while you are in America. 
Answer. The standard length of admission for a B1/B2 visa is 6 months in most ports but as with most admissions it is up to the determination of the inspecting officer. Most people who are tourists can not afford to be away from their homes or jobs for more then 6 months
Persons on D1 visa wo … uld be admitted into the US up to 29 days. D2 visa:For crewman serving aboard a fishing vessel with a home port or base of operation in the US and is only available if the fishing vessel is temporarily visiting Guam. Persons on D2 visa may stay in the US for a period of 6 months. The standard length of admission for a B1/B2 visa is 6 months in most ports but as with most admissions it is up to the determination of the inspecting officer.
Finding that an entry visa to the United States has been granted is cause for great celebration for most applicants, but that celebration is often premature: Visas allow travelers to board their transportation to the U.S., but they by no means guarantee entry. You cannot stay in the U.S. at all with a visa alone. Determining officers of the Department of Homeland Security at the U.S. port of entry are empowered to turn away even people with visas and send them back where they came from if they sense some subterfuge or illegal intent. A traveler with a B1 professional visa, meaning they have work the State Department has already determined is acceptable under all its conditions, can stay up to three years on a single I-94. In an extreme circumstance, then, a person with a one-month B1 visa could legally stay in the USA for three years, not one month.
How Long You Can Stay in the U.S. on a B-2 Visa Compared to on the VWP. If you enter the United States on a visa waiver, your maximum stay will be 90 days. With a B-2 tourist visa, by contrast, you will normally be allowed to stay for up to six months. What’s more, with a B-2 visa, you can apply to extend your stay even longer. 1 You would like to visit the United States for no longer than three months (90 days) as a visitor for either pleasure (or business). 2  You do not intend to stay in the U.S. permanently.
How long can I stay in the U.S. on a B-1/B-2 visa? Validity of a visa relates only to the length of time the holder may travel to the United States and apply for admission. It does not determine the length of time you can stay in the United States. The holder of a B-1 visa, or a person who has entered the United States without a visa under the Visa Waiver Program, may survey potential sites in connection with a business venture and/or to lease premises. The holder of a B-1 visa may not remain in the U.S. to manage a business.
Share on Google Plus. If you are a Mexican or Canadian citizen, TN status can be an ideal means of legally entering and working in the United States. Current U.S. laws and regulations say that Mexican and Canadian citizens can stay in the U.S. in TN status for periods up to three years.
“I was issued a tourist visa that is valid for 10 years. I was excited and had planned to stay at least one year in the U.S. However, I was surprised that I was only allowed to visit for six months. I thought I could stay ten years because of my visa validity. Please help me understand how long I can stay in the U.S.”. There is a difference between visa validity and the length of time you are allowed to visit the United States. You are not authorized to stay in the United States for the entire time that your visa is valid
A: You can arrive in the U.S. right up to the last date of validity indicated on the visa. The duration of stay in the US is determined by the Immigration Officer on arrival. The maximum duration of stay on a B1/B2 visa is 6 months. Your visa can expire while you are still in the U.S. - just ensure that you do not overstay the period permitted by the Immigration Officer! Q: I have 10 years multiple entry visitors visa.
Below is a quick summary of how long various types of visa holders (shown by their letter designation) are normally allowed to stay. In situations where derivative status is allowed, most often for your spouse and children, you can assume that they will be allowed the same length of stay as you. 1 A-1, A-2, G-1, G-2, G-3, G4 diplomats, government representatives, and staffs: “Duration of Status,” (D/S), meaning you can remain in the U.S. for as long as U.S. Secretary of State continues to recognize you as a member of the diplomatic category. 2  You do not need to apply to extend your stay.