Besides human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes AIDS, there a two other retroviruses that can cause human illness. One is called human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) and the other is called human T-lymphotropic virus type 2 (HTLV-II). 
retrovirus. [-vī′rəs]. Etymology: L, retro + virus. any of a family of ribonucleic acid (RNA) viruses containing the enzyme reverse transcriptase in the virion. The genetic information of the virus is stored in a molecule of single-stranded ribonucleic acid. Retrovirus. A family of RNA viruses containing a reverse transcriptase enzyme which allows the viruses' genetic information to become part of the genetic information of the host cell upon replication. Mentioned in: AIDS, AIDS Tests, Antiretroviral Drugs, Antiviral Drugs, Tropical Spastic Paraparesis.
Retrovirus: A virus that is composed not of DNA but of RNA. Retroviruses have an enzyme, called reverse transcriptase, that gives them the unique property of transcribing their RNA into DNA after entering a cell. The retroviral DNA can then integrate into the chromosomal DNA of the host cell, to be expressed there. HIV is a retrovirus.
Retroviridae is a family of enveloped viruses that replicate in a host cell through the process of reverse transcription. A retrovirus is a single-stranded positive-sense RNA virus with a DNA intermediate and, as an obligate parasite, targets a host cell. Once these have been bound, the cell membrane degrades, becoming part of the host cell, and the RNA strands and enzymes go into the cell (3). Within the cell, reverse transcriptase creates a complementary strand of DNA from the retrovirus RNA and the RNA is degraded; this strand of DNA is known as cDNA (4). The cDNA is then replicated, and the two strands form a weak bond and go into the nucleus (5)
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is not present in the virions of retroviruses. The reverse transcriptase in each virus makes a DNA copy of the RNA genome shortly after entry of the virus into the host cell. This reversal of genetic information was considered backward and hence the family name retrovirus, meaning backward virus. Once the DNA copy of the RNA genome is made, it is inserted directly into one of the chromosomes of the host cell. This results in new genetic information being acquired by the host species.
An enzyme called reverse transcriptase allows a retrovirus's RNA to act as the template for this RNA-to-DNA transcription. The resultant DNA inserts itself into a cell's DNA and is reproduced along with the cell and its daughters. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is not present in the virions of retroviruses. The reverse transcriptase in each virus makes a DNA copy of the RNA genome shortly after entry of the virus into the host cell.
The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a lentivirus (a subgroup of retrovirus) that causes HIV infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). AIDS is a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive. 
Noun. 1. retrovirus-any of a group of viruses that contain two single-strand linear RNA molecules per virion and reverse transcriptase (RNA to DNA); the virus transcribes its RNA into a cDNA provirus that is then incorporated into the host cell. animal virus-an animal pathogen that is a virus. retrovirus. n. 1. (Microbiology) any of several viruses whose genetic specification is encoded in RNA rather than DNA and that are able to reverse the normal flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA by transcribing RNA into DNA: many retroviruses are known to cause cancer in animals.
HIV is a retrovirus. HIV is an enveloped retrovirus. Each virus particle contains two copies of an RNA genome. The virus also has a number of enzymes: reverse transcriptase, integrase and viral protease. These molecules play an important role in making new copies of HIV and can be the targets of antiretroviral drugs.