The lamina propria (more correctly lamina propria mucosae) mucosæ is a thin layer of loose connective, tissue or dense irregular connective, tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the. mucosa As its Latin name indicates it is a characteristic component of the mucosa, the mucosa's own special layer. Thus the term mucosa or mucous membrane always refers to the combination of the epithelium plus the lamina propria. The connective tissue of the lamina propria is very loose allowing it to be very cell rich.
Medical Definition of LAMINA PROPRIA. : a highly vascular layer of connective tissue under the basement membrane lining a layer of epithelium. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, literally, proper lamina.
lamina propria. Definitions: 1. the layer of connective tissue underlying the epithelium of a mucous membrane. Synonyms: lamina propria mucosae. The definition information for lamina propria is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
Medical Definition of PROPRIA. —see lamina propria, substantia propria, tunica propria. 4 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  propria
Lamina propria. The lamina propria is a constituent of the moist linings known as mucous membranes or mucosa, which line various tubes in the body. The lamina propria is a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa. As its Latin name indicates it is a characteristic component of the mucosa, the mucosa's own special layer
Lamina propria also contains glands with the ducts opening on to the mucosal epithelium, that secrete mucus and serous secretions. The lamina propria is also rich in immune cells known as lymphocytes. A majority of these cells are IgA-secreting B cells. As its Latin name indicates it is a characteristic component of the mucosa, the mucosa's own special layer. Thus the term mucosa or mucous membrane always refers to the combination of the epithelium plus the lamina propria. The connective tissue of the lamina propria is very loose allowing it to be very cell rich.
In his own person. It is a rule in pleading that pleas to the jurisdiction of the court must be pleaded in propria persona, because, if pleaded by attorney, they admit the jurisdiction, as an attorney is an officer of the court, and he is presumed to plead after having obtained leave, which admits the jurisdiction. Lawes on Pl. 91. 2.
The lamina propria is a constituent of the moist linings known as mucous membranes or mucosa, which line various tubes in the body (such as the respiratory tract, the gastrointestinal tract, and the urogenital tract). As its Latin name indicates it is a characteristic component of the mucosa, the mucosa's own special layer. Thus the term mucosa or mucous membrane always refers to the combination of the epithelium plus the lamina propria. The connective tissue of the lamina propria is very loose allowing it to be very cell rich.