Serum magnesium level may remain normal in spite of decreased total body store of magnesium (decreased up to 20%). Magnesium absorption is impaired by phytate, fatty acids, and increased phosphate. Hemolysis causes increased results, for levels in RBC are 2-3 times higher than the serum.
Guide. A magnesium test checks the level of magnesium in the blood. Magnesium is an important electrolyte needed for proper muscle, nerve, and enzyme function. It also helps the body use energy and is needed to move other electrolytes (potassium and sodium) into and out of cells.
A magnesium test is used to measure the level of magnesium in the blood (or sometimes urine). Abnormal levels of magnesium are most frequently seen in conditions or diseases that cause impaired or excessive excretion of magnesium by the kidneys or that cause impaired absorption in the intestines.
Magnesium (Mg). Guide. A magnesium test checks the level of magnesium in the blood. Magnesium is an important electrolyte needed for proper muscle, nerve, and enzyme function. It also helps the body use energy and is needed to move other electrolytes (potassium and sodium) into and out of cells.
Hypomagnesemia is an electrolyte imbalance and is indicated by a low level of magnesium in the blood. The normal adult value for magnesium is 1.5-2.5 mEq/L. Magnesium is one of many electrolytes in your body and normal levels of magnesium are important for the maintenance of heart and nervous system function.
A test for magnesium is done to: 1  Find a cause for nerve and muscle problems, such as muscle twitches, irritability, and muscle weakness. 2  Find the cause of symptoms such as low blood pressure, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, muscle weakness, and slurred speech.
Testing magnesium levels to find if they are normal requires a simple blood draw. Levels are considered normal in the range of 1.7 to 2.2 mg/dL. Your doctor might choose to test your magnesium levels if you have tested low for potassium and calcium or if you have a history of kidney disease.