No single piece of weight training equipment is best for everyone. Both free weights and machine weights can help you increase your strength. Other types of resistance, such as using resistance bands or body weight, also can help
But it may take some practice to get used to lifting with free weights, and it's essential to use proper technique. Machine weights also can be effective weight training tools, as long as you use machines that adjust to your body dimensions and allow your joints to move through their natural motion paths. Machine weights are generally safe when used with the proper technique. Many people can learn to use them quickly.
There are benefits and drawbacks to both machines and free weights, and some exercises tend to be more effective when done using one or the other. Hand weights are inexpensive, portable, and readily available for purchase in just about any department store.
1 Good for isolating muscles. 2  If you’re injured and you can’t use certain muscles, or you want to ensure that you’re just working one single muscle group, such as your chest, machines can be very effective for isolating just one area. 3  Allow easy weight changes.
Walk into any commercial fitness gym and you’ll see a combination of both free weights and machines for various strength training exercises. Some people use just free weights for their workout, some go from machine to machine to get their pump, and some use a combination of both to optimize their physique.
Selecting and Effectively Using Home Weight Machines There are many well-documented health and fitness benefits associated with building and maintaining muscle mass. Finding a convenient,affordable fitness facility can present barriers that may prevent a person from participating in weightlifting exercises.
Free Weights vs. Resistance Machines. After talking to a fitness expert, you discover that a good exercise program must incorporate aerobic exercise such as running, aerobic dance or cycling, and some form of strength training.