To prepare this roast pork loin recipe, we first rub a boneless pork loin with a simple blend of garlic and seasonings, and then roast it to perfection. Note that the final target temperature for this pork loin roast is 140° to 145°F, which is medium. The interior will have a lovely rosy color. 1 Preheat oven to 450°F. 2  In a small bowl, combine the oil, garlic, salt, pepper and herbs and mix until a paste forms. 3  Dry the pork loin with paper towels and rub it all over with the seasoning paste. 4  Then set it on a rack in a shallow roasting pan.
3. When skillet is smoking about 4-5 minutes add the roast, fat side up if a single loin. Brown the roast on all sides about 2 minutes per side, fat side last, lower temperature if the roast is burning. 4. Transfer roast to roasting pan on a rack set inside the pan. Cook until the internal temperature reaches 145-150 degrees using an instant read thermometer inserted into the center of the roast. Approximately 25-30 minutes per pound should register about 145-150 degrees. 5
Directions. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Rub pork with salt, pepper, and 2 teaspoons mustard. On a plate, season breadcrumbs with salt and pepper. Coat top and sides of roast with breadcrumbs, leaving ends uncoated. In a 9-by-13-inch roasting pan, toss onions with the oil; season with salt and pepper. Place pork in center of pan; roast 15 minutes.
Step 2. Add oil to frying pan and heat over medium high until the pan starts to smoke -- about 5 minutes. Add the seasoned roast and brown on all sides -- about 2 to 3 minutes per side. If the cut of pork has fat, be sure to brown in the pan fat side up at first. Finish browning fat side down. 
Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F. Combine kosher salt, black pepper, and cumin in a shallow dish. Roll roast in seasonings, coating well. Preheat a cast iron grill pan over high heat. Once the pan is hot, brush the roast with the olive oil, and sear on all sides, approximately 8 to 10 minutes total cooking time.
Remove the roast to a plate, cover with aluminum foil, and allow to rest for 10 to 15 minutes. Place the roast back onto the grill pan, put in the oven and cook until it reaches an internal temperature of 135 degrees F, approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Roll roast in seasonings, coating well. Preheat a cast iron grill pan over high heat. Once the pan is hot, brush the roast with the olive oil, and sear on all sides, approximately 8 to 10 minutes total cooking time.
1 In a small bowl, combine the oil, garlic, salt, pepper and herbs and mix until a paste forms. 2  Dry the pork loin with paper towels and rub it all over with the seasoning paste. 3  Then set it on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. 4  Insert a meat thermometer on a slight angle into the very center of the roast. 1 Preheat oven to 450°F. 2  In a small bowl, combine the oil, garlic, salt, pepper and herbs and mix until a paste forms. 3  Dry the pork loin with paper towels and rub it all over with the seasoning paste. 4  Then set it on a rack in a shallow roasting pan.
Pork chops are the most popular cut from the pork loin, which is the strip of meat that runs from the pig’s hip to shoulder. Depending on where they originate, pork chops can be found under a variety of names, including loin, rib, sirloin, top loin and blade chops. 
Pork is a lean meat, which makes it a healthy protein for low-fat meals. Lean cuts of pork, such as center-cut pork chops have a mild, almost bland flavor, and can dry out quickly. Center-cut pork chops, also known as top loin chops or America's cut, are thick, lean, boneless chops cut from the loin portion of the hog. Treat them first with a marinade or brine to increase flavor and juiciness, and to keep the cooking time brief. Slide the pork chops into the oven and bake them for an additional 6 to 10 minutes. Most center cut chops are between 1 1/4 and 2 inches thick. Depending on the thickness of the chops, they may need additional time.