DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Dexmethylphenidate is a medication used for treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It is chemically similar to methylphenidate (Ritalin, Concerta). 
Focalin XR 速 (dexmethylphenidate extended-release) is a prescription medication used for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Focalin XR is part of a group of ADHD medications called stimulants. For most children, Focalin XR is well-tolerated and is effective at treating ADHD symptoms. Fortunately, there are several alternatives to Focalin XR for ADHD treatment. Some of these Focalin XR alternatives include: 1  Lifestyle changes, including therapy. 2  Other stimulant ADHD medications.
Carefully follow your doctor's instructions. Methylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate are different medications and do not provide the same amount of medicine. Do not switch between products unless your doctor tells you to. Take this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, take it at the same times each day. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually twice a day with or without food. Take the first dose as soon as you wake up in the morning and the second dose at least 4 hours later, or take as directed by your doctor.
Dexmethylphenidate is very similar to methylphenidate. Do not use medications containing methylphenidate while using dexmethylphenidate. This medication may interfere with certain medical/laboratory tests (including brain scan for Parkinson's disease), possibly causing false test results. Methylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate are different medications and do not provide the same amount of medicine. Do not switch between products unless your doctor tells you to. Take this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
Dexmethylphenidate (trade names Focalin, Attenade; also known as d-threo-methylphenidate (D-TMP)) is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine and piperidine classes that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Dexmethylphenidate is used as a treatment for ADHD, usually along with psychological, educational, behavioral or other forms of treatment. It is proposed that stimulants help ameliorate the symptoms of ADHD by making it easier for the user to concentrate, avoid distraction, and control behavior.
FOCALIN. 速. is a central nervous system stimulant prescription medicine. It is used for the treatment of attention. deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). FOCALIN. 速. may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness. and hyperactivity in patients with ADHD. FOCALIN. 速. should be used as a part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include counseling or other. therapies.
AUDIENCE: Psychiatry, Family Medicine, Pediatrics, Consumer. ISSUE: FDA is warning that methylphenidate products, one type of stimulant drug used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), may in rare instances cause prolonged and sometimes painful erections known as priapism. 
Uses. Dexmethylphenidate is used as part of a treatment program (including psychological, educational, and social measures) to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder-ADHD. It can help increase your ability to pay attention, stay focused on an activity, and control behavior problems. Methylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate are different medications and do not provide the same amount of medicine. Do not switch between products unless your doctor tells you to. Take this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. This medication may raise your blood pressure. Check your blood pressure regularly and tell your doctor if the results are high. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually twice a day with or without food. Take the first dose as soon as you wake up in the morning and the second dose at least 4 hours later, or take as directed by your doctor.
Focalin XR (dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride) is a mild central nervous system (CNS) stimulant used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Withdrawal symptoms may occur if this drug is stopped abruptly. Our Focalin XR (dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication.