A heterogeneous set of practices that are offered as an alternative to conventional medicine, for the preservation of health and the diagnosis and treatment of health-related problems; its practitioners are often called healers. group medicine the practice of medicine by a group of physicians, usually representing various specialties, who are associated together for the cooperative diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease.
Definition. Holistic medicine is a term used to describe therapies that attempt to treat the patient as a whole person. That is, instead of treating an illness, as in orthodox allopathy, holistic medicine looks at an individual's overall physical, mental, spiritual, and emotional wellbeing before recommending treatment. If a patient is being treated with allopathic medicine, holistic therapies may at least support the body during treatment, and alleviate the symptoms that often come with drug treatments and surgery. In addition, holistic therapies aim at the underlying source of the illness, to prevent recurrence.
Holistic isn’t just a word – it’s a way to get in touch. The term ' holistic ' comes from the Greek word 'holos' meaning whole. The holistic approach aims to restore balance within the body, taking into account the person's whole being not just their physical symptoms or ailments. Massage therapy is an ancient form of healing, used for thousands of years. Holistic massage combines a therapeutic and nurturing process of touch and response with each treatment adapted to the client’s unique needs, physical characteristics and personality
1 The patient is a person, not a disease. 2  Healing takes a team approach involving the patient and doctor, and addresses all aspects of a person's life using a variety of health care practices. 3  Treatment involves fixing the cause of the condition, not just alleviating the symptoms. Holistic medicine is also based on the belief that unconditional love and support is the most powerful healer and a person is ultimately responsible for his or her own health and well-being. Other principles of holistic medicine include the following: 1  All people have innate healing powers. 2  The patient is a person, not a disease. 3  Healing takes a team approach involving the patient and doctor, and addresses all aspects of a person's life using a variety of health care practice
Print Print. Coined from a Greek word, 'holos', meaning 'whole' or 'complete', holistic therapies approach disease and disorders as parts of a greater whole. Rather than treating just the symptoms, a holistic practitioner looks deeper and tries to uncover underlying causes. Holistic counselling is a gentle and compassionate form of therapy that may help you help yourself when you feel the need for support or assistance. Contact a holistic counsellor in your area and ask about the services they provide.
Holistic medicine is a form of healing that considers the whole person -- body, mind, spirit, and emotions -- in the quest for optimal health and wellness. Holistic medicine is also based on the belief that unconditional love and support is the most powerful healer and a person is ultimately responsible for his or her own health and well-being. Other principles of holistic medicine include the following: 1  All people have innate healing powers. 2  The patient is a person, not a disease. 3  Healing takes a team approach involving the patient and doctor, and addresses all aspects of a person's life using a variety of health care practice
What primarily distinguishes holistic healing apart from alternative medicine, complementary medicine, and integrative medicine is that physical health is not necessarily the main focus. Even so, it is often the experience of physical discomfort that will first prompt a person's pursuit of holistic healing. 
1. any drug or remedy. 2. the art and science of the diagnosis and treatment of disease and the maintenance of health. 3. the nonsurgical treatment of disease. alternative medicine see complementary and alternative medicine. aviation medicine the branch of medicine that deals with the physiologic, medical, psychologic, and epidemiologic problems involved in flying. group medicine the practice of medicine by a group of physicians, usually representing various specialties, who are associated together for the cooperative diagnosis, treatment, and prevention