The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra. The urinary system eliminates wastes, controls blood volume, regulates blood ion concentration and pH, and regulates red blood cell production.
ADH (Antidiuretic Hormone). The brain and kidneys regulate the amount of water excreted by the body. When the blood volume is low, the concentration of solutes in the blood is high. When the hypothalamus senses this low blood volume and increased serum osmolality it synthesizes ADH, a small peptide molecule.
The kidneys control blood volume by regulating the volume of urine produced. The kidneys help regulate the concentration of major ions in the body fluids. The kidneys help regulate pH of the body fluids. The kidneys regulate the concentration of erythrocytes in the blood.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. adh controls the volume of urine by regulating the amount of water absorbed into the convoluted tubules. . At some point ,change in blood level activates the osmoreceptors in the hypothalamus which in turn activates the release of antidiuretic hormone(ADH).
Introduction. The Urinary System is a group of organs in the body concerned with filtering out excess fluid and other substances from the bloodstream. The substances are filtered out from the body in the form of urine. Urine is a liquid produced by the kidneys, collected in the bladder and excreted through the urethra.
1 The kidneys excrete waste products. 2  The kidneys control blood volume by regulating the volume of urine produced. 3  The kidneys help regulate the concentration of major ions in the body fluids. 4  The kidneys help regulate pH of
Increased blood volume prevents the release of ADH. As a result, the kidneys retain less water, which dilutes the urine and increases urine output. As fluid leaves the body, blood volume decreases and serum osmolality increases.
Functions of the Urinary System. 1  The kidneys excrete waste products. 2  The kidneys control blood volume by regulating the volume of urine produced. 3  The kidneys help regulate the concentration of major ions in the body fluids.