Cystic fibrosis (CF) has no cure. However, treatments have greatly improved in recent years. The goals of CF treatment include: 1  Preventing and controlling lung infections. 2  Loosening and removing thick, sticky mucus from the lungs. 3  Preventing or treating blockages in the intestines.
People with cystic fibrosis should be treated with help and advice from a team of healthcare professionals at a cystic fibrosis centre. With regular visits, the patient or parent can learn how to best manage the condition. As each case is different, they can receive tailored care for their or their child's condition. There is no cure for cystic fibrosis. The aim of treatment is to ease the symptoms and make the condition easier to live with. It can also prevent or reduce long-term damage caused by infections and other complications.
Antibiotics are used to fight or control infection-causing bacteria. Lung infections are common in people with cystic fibrosis, so antibiotics are an important part of regular care. Antibiotics. Antibiotics are used to fight or control infection-causing bacteria. Lung infections are common in people with cystic fibrosis, so antibiotics are an important part of regular care. Share.
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease which causes mucus in the lungs to be more sticky than normal, leading to frequent lung infections and lung damage. Pneumococcus is a type of bacteria that can cause infection throughout the body, including in the urine, blood stream, fluid around the brain and in the lungs. Cystic fibrosis (SIS-tik fi-BRO-sis), or CF, is an inherited disease of the secretory (see-KREH-tor-ee) glands. Secretory glands include glands that make mucus and sweat. Inherited means the disease is passed from parents to children through genes.
Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Respiratory Cystic Fibrosis. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Respiratory Cystic Fibrosis returned the following treatments. 
The different types of antibiotics used as cystic fibrosis treatments include: 1  Oral antibiotics for relatively mild airway infections. 2  Inhaled antibiotics, such as tobramycin, which may be used alone or with oral antibiotics. 3  Intravenous antibiotics for severe infections or when none of the oral antibiotics work. The goal of cystic fibrosis treatment is to: 1  Prevent and control infections in your lungs. 2  Loosen and remove the thick, sticky mucus from your lungs. 3  Prevent blockages in your intestines.
CF is an autosomal recessive disorder. It is caused by the presence of mutations in both copies of the gene for the protein cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Those with a single working copy are carriers and otherwise mostly normal. The main signs and symptoms of cystic fibrosis are salty-tasting skin, poor growth, and poor weight gain despite normal food intake, accumulation of thick, sticky mucus, frequent chest infections, and coughing or shortness of breath.
Chest physical therapy as treatment for cystic fibrosis is also called chest clapping or percussion. Chest physical therapy involves pounding your chest and back over and over again to dislodge the mucus from your lungs so that you can cough up the mucus. The goal of cystic fibrosis treatment is to: 1  Prevent and control infections in your lungs. 2  Loosen and remove the thick, sticky mucus from your lungs. 3  Prevent blockages in your intestines.
There still is no cure for cystic fibrosis (CF), but treatments have improved greatly in recent years. The goals of CF treatment are to: 1  Prevent and control infections in your lungs. 2  Loosen and remove the thick, sticky mucus from your lungs. 3  Prevent blockages in your intestines. 4  Provide adequate nutrition
In people with cystic fibrosis, the body produces mucus that is abnormally thick and sticky. This abnormal mucus can clog the airways, leading to severe problems with breathing and bacterial infections in the lungs. These infections cause chronic coughing, wheezing, and inflammation. 