For example, E. coli bacteria are a common cause of cystitis, an infection of the bladder that occurs when there is a spread of the bacteria from the gut to the urinary system. Women are more susceptible to urinary tract infection by E. coli because of the close proximity of the urethra and the anus. Some types of E. coli can cause gastrointestinal infections. As the bacteria can survive outside of the body, its levels serve as a measure of general hygiene and faecal contamination of an environment. A common mode of infection is by eating food that is contaminated with the bacteria.
Enteroaggregative E. Coli infection, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. The contagious disease, Enteroaggregative E. Coli infection, can be transmitted: 1  from person to person by saliva, air, coughing, contact, surfaces, fecal-oral route, etc.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. 
E. coli Infections. There are many different types or strains of Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria. Most E. coli strains are harmless and live normally in the intestines of people and animals. However, some strains of E. coli can make you sick with diarrhea, urinary tract infection, or other illnesses. E. coli of the strain number O157, also known as E. coli O157:H7, are one type of E. coli that cause illness in people. Food and liquids become contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 by coming into contact with the stool of an infected person or animal.
Some E. coli bacteria are contagious while others are not, depending on the E. coli strain and/or the infection type. Some strains that cause gastrointestinal problems (enteropathogenic E. coli) can be transmitted person-to-person, usually by the oral/fecal route, and even indirectly by contaminated food or water. Foods that are sources for diarrhea-causing E. coli are. 1  contaminated meat (raw or undercooked), 2  unpasteurized milk, and. 3  raw fruits and vegetables.
People who are infected with E. coli are very contagious. Children shouldn't go to a day care center until they have 2 negative stool cultures (proof that the infection is gone). Older people in nursing homes should stay in bed until 2 stool cultures are negative. 
There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals. This can happen when you drink water or eat food that has been contaminated by feces. E. coli can get into meat during processing. 
E. coli 0157:H7 is a type of E. coli bacteria that causes a serious infection involving the gastrointestinal tract. E. coli are bacteria found in the digestive tracts of humans and many animals. Usually, these bacteria are harmless and may even be beneficial. Not all of the E. coli bacteria are alike and, a few may produce infection, such as E. coli 0157:H7.
Enteroaggregative E. Coli infection is considered to be contagious between people. Generally the infectious agent may be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. The contagious disease, Enteroaggregative E. Coli infection, can be transmitted: 1  from person to person by saliva, air, coughing, contact, surfaces, fecal-oral route, etc.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) is a type of bacteria common in human and animal intestines, and forms part of the normal gut flora (the bacteria that exist in the bowel). There are a number of different types of E. coli and while the majority are harmless some can cause serious food poisoning and serious infection. Some types of E. coli can cause gastrointestinal infections. As the bacteria can survive outside of the body, its levels serve as a measure of general hygiene and faecal contamination of an environment. A common mode of infection is by eating food that is contaminated with the bacteria.