A hen will usually sit on her eggs for 21 days. This can vary by a day or two. The hen will continue to guard the chick and keep it warm for 30 to 60 days even when vent … uring out in the yard. + 15 others found this useful. 
We have 1 male african goose, 1 female african and 2 female turloise (sp) geese. Our turloise has been sitting on approx 23 eggs since before Easter. Surely she wouldn't be sitting on the eggs if they were bad right? 
Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime.
After she starts laying, she will produce an egg or two a day up to 10-18 eggs. These eggs will be left uncovered until she is ready to sit When she has laid the eggs she will start sitting on them all day long for 28 days (most breeds). Yes. The duck will sit on the clutch of eggs until they hatch in about 28 days from when she starts to sit on them. She does leave for short periods to eat and drink whe … n there is nobody around. Be patient, the eggs will hatch, and soon there will be a brood of ducklings. 1 person found this useful.
Report Abuse. Geese will sit on their nest to incubate the eggs, which takes about 28-30 days. =). Source(s): internet; http://www.veganpeace.com/animal_facts/G... K.E.L.S.E.Y. · 7 years ago.
If you leave goose eggs in the nest, a goose will usually sit once she has laid a suitable size clutch of eggs. To prevent breakages whilst she is laying, it is usually best to leave a couple of eggs in the nest but to remove and store the others until there are enough for her to sit on. Geese can usually sit on 7 to 10 eggs comfortably. When a goose is ready to sit, she will line her nest with down that she plucks from herself.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Duck eggs take 28-30 days to hatch, except for Muscovy eggs, which take 35 days. If you find a wild duck's nest on your property and don't see the mother on the eggs, don't necessarily worry. Ducks lay an egg every day or two until they have a full clutch (usually 8 to 15); only then will the mother start to sit on them. It takes the eggs 28 days to hatch from when she starts sitting all the time. When they hatch, she will soon lead them to a nearby body of water.
The Canada Goose begins to incubate her eggs after she finishes laying them all-sometimes up to 15 eggs, but more commonly 2-8. Once incubation begins, the eggs should hatch in about 25-28 days. The goslings hatch covered with down and with their eyes open. They leave the nest within 24 hours of hatching with the ability to swim and feed. Unlike songbirds, the parents do not feed their babies. The young geese will fledge (leave the care of their parents) in 6-7 weeks. Do not disturb the nest, because you could cause the mother to abandon her eggs. She views humans as predators.