Scoliosis is a disorder that causes an abnormal curve of the spine, or backbone. The spine has normal curves when looking from the side, but it should appear straight when looking from the front. Kyphosis is a curve in the spine seen from the side in which the spine is bent forward. There is a normal lordosis in the upper (cervical) spine and the lower (lumbar) spine. People with scoliosis develop additional curves to either side of the body, and the bones of the spine twist on each other, forming a C or an S shape in the spine. Scoliosis is about two times more common in girls than boys. It can be seen at any age, but it is most common in those over about 10 years of age
1 Scoliosis is an abnormal curve in the spine. 2  There are several types of scoliosis based on the cause and age when the curve develops; the majority of patients have no known cause. 3  The most common symptom of scoliosis is curvature of the spine. There is a normal lordosis in the upper (cervical) spine and the lower (lumbar) spine. People with scoliosis develop additional curves to either side of the body, and the bones of the spine twist on each other, forming a C or an S shape in the spine. Scoliosis is about two times more common in girls than boys. It can be seen at any age, but it is most common in those over about 10 years of ag
Scoliosis is an abnormal curvature of the spine. In scoliosis, the spine curves to the side when viewed from the front, and each vertebra also twists on the next one in a corkscrew fashion. Scoliosis affects girls twice as often as it affects boys. About three to five of 1,000 people are affected. 
About Scoliosis. Scoliosis is a musculoskeletal disorder in which there is a sideways curvature of the spine, or backbone. The bones that make up the spine are called vertebrae. Some people who have scoliosis require treatment. Other people, who have milder curves, may need to visit their doctor for periodic observation only. 
Secondary scoliosis can be the result of a neuromuscular condition (e.g., spina bifida, cerebral palsy, spinal muscular atrophy, or physical trauma) or syndromes such as Chiari malformation. 
Scoliosis is a condition involving an abnormal sideways curvature of the spine. It can be caused by congenital, developmental or degenerative problems, but most cases of scoliosis actually have no known cause called idiopathic scoliosis. 
Scoliosis facts. 1  Scoliosis is an abnormal curve in the spine. 2  There are several types of scoliosis based on the cause and age when the curve develops; the majority of patients have no known cause. 3  The most common symptom of scoliosis is curvature of the spine. There is a normal lordosis in the upper (cervical) spine and the lower (lumbar) spine. People with scoliosis develop additional curves to either side of the body, and the bones of the spine twist on each other, forming a C or an S shape in the spine. Scoliosis is about two times more common in girls than boys. It can be seen at any age, but it is most common in those over about 10 years of ag
idiopathic scoliosis, an abnormal condition characterized by a lateral curvature of the spine. It is the most common type of scoliosis, evident in 70% of all patients with scoliosis and up to 80% of those with structural scoliosis. It may occur at any age, but three types are commonly associated with certain age groups. The infantile type affects 1- to 3-year-olds. The juvenile type affects 3- to 10-year-olds.
In short, the spine in the person's lower back is curved or bent in a way that is not expected, ie. sideways. Scoliosis is a sideways (for lack of a better word) curvature … of the spine. ie. the spine bends in a way that it is not supposed to. While scoliosis can be caused by conditions and birth defects such as Cerebral Palsy, Muscular Dystrophy and Spina Bifida (which I was born with), the cause of most scoliosis is unknown.