It is the smallest blood vessels in the body that carries blood cells ,salts & nutrients to be supplied to tissues & organs. It is a minute(nm) tube that permits flow of min … ute solutions/gas in minimum molecular form.   A capillary is the smallest blood vessel in the body. They are the vessels in which gas exchange occurs.
Endothelium is a type of epithelium that lines the interior surface of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels, forming an interface between circulating blood or lymph in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall. It is a thin layer of simple squamous cells called endothelial cells. These functions include fluid filtration, such as in the glomeruli of the kidney, blood vessel tone, hemostasis, neutrophil recruitment, and hormone trafficking. Endothelium of the interior surfaces of the heart chambers is called endocardium.
It is the smallest blood vessels in the body that carries blood cells ,salts & nutrients to be supplied to tissues & organs. It is a minute(nm) tube that permits flow of min … ute solutions/gas in minimum molecular form.   A capillary is the smallest blood vessel in the body. 1 Capillaries are the very small vessels that send blood from arteries to veins in the body. 2  More active organs and tissues have more capillary networks. 3  Unlike veins and arter….
The tunica interna is the innermost lining of the blood vessel. It is lined by endothelium, which is almost always simple squamous epithelium, and its underlying connective tissue. In arteries a layer of elastic tissue called the internal elastic membrane marks the outer boundary of the tunica interna. 2. 1. Continuous capillaries have an endothelial lining with the endothelial cells closely attached to one another by tight junctions and desmosomes. This type of capillary is the most common and most closely regulates exchange of materials.
Structure [edit]. Endothelium is mesodermal in origin. Both blood and lymphatic capillaries are composed of a single layer of endothelial cells called a monolayer. In straight sections of a blood vessel, vascular endothelial cells typically align and elongate in the direction of fluid flow. These functions include fluid filtration, such as in the glomeruli of the kidney, blood vessel tone, hemostasis, neutrophil recruitment, and hormone trafficking. Endothelium of the interior surfaces of the heart chambers is called endocardium.
(Their diameter is 5 to 10  micrometers, or 5 to 10 millionths of a meter.) Capillaries connect  arterioles and venules, which are the smaller extensions of the  larger arteries and veins. the smallest blood vessels in the body branched off from arteries. A capilary is a small artery. 37 people found this useful. It is a minute(nm) tube that permits flow of min … ute solutions/gas in minimum molecular form.   A capillary is the smallest blood vessel in the body. They are the vessels in which gas exchange occurs.
(Their diameter is 5 to 10  micrometers, or 5 to 10 millionths of a meter.) Capillaries connect  arterioles and venules, which are the smaller extensions of the  larger arteries and veins. the smallest blood vessels in the body branched off from arteries. A capilary is a small artery. 1 Capillaries are the very small vessels that send blood from arteries to veins in the body. 2  More active organs and tissues have more capillary networks. 3  Unlike veins and arter….
The smallest arteries are called Arterioles. Capillaries are a separate type of blood vessel, they are the smallest of the blood vessels. 1 Capillaries are the very small vessels that send blood from arteries to veins in the body. 2  More active organs and tissues have more capillary networks. 3  Unlike veins and arter….
Small Intestine. The lining of the small intestine is characterized by numerous circular folds called plicae circulares. The plicae are lined with fingerlike villi. From a cross-sectional view, the villus contains a network of capillaries which surround a specialized lymphatic vessel known as a lacteal. This succession of folds and projections increases the surface of the intestinal lining for efficient absorption. Carbohydrate digestion is completed by enzymes in the small intestine. Carbohydrates are absorbed by the villi and then enter the capillary. Fat digestion occurs primarily in the small intestine