The Netherlands. The independent country of the Netherlands only dates back to 1815 but the area and its people have a much longer history. Located in northern Europe, just northeast of Belgium and west of Germany, the Netherlands contains 280 miles (451 km) of coastline along the North Sea. It also contains the mouths of three very important European rivers: the Rhine, Schelde, and Meuse. In 1986, the Netherlands proclaimed the new 12th province of Flevoland but they didn't carve out the province from already existing Dutch land nor did they annex the territory of their neighbors-Germany and Belgium.
The Low Countries (Dutch: de Lage Landen, French: les Pays-Bas) is a coastal region in western Europe, consisting especially of the Netherlands and Belgium, and the low-lying delta of the Rhine, Meuse, Scheldt, and Ems rivers where much of the land is at or below sea level. The Low Countries were the scene of the early northern towns, newly built rather than developed from ancient centres, that marked the reawakening of Europe in the 12th century.
Western lowland gorillas are smaller and lighter than the other gorilla subspecies, with short hair, a wider skull and a more pronounced brow ridge. The ears also appear small in relation to the head. There is also a more pronounced difference between the sexes, with females being almost half the size of silverbacks. 
The geography of the Netherlands is unusual in that much of its land has been reclaimed from the sea and is below sea level, protected by dikes. Another factor that has influenced its physical appearance is that the country is among the most densely populated on Earth. The rest of the country is mostly flat; only in the extreme south of the country does the land rise to any significant extent, in the foothills of the Ardennes mountains. This is where Vaalserberg is located, the highest point on the European part of the Netherlands at 322.7 metres (1,059 ft) above sea level.
up to 440 pounds. The western lowland gorilla is the most numerous and widespread of all gorilla subspecies. Populations can be found in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Equatorial Guinea as well as in large areas in Gabon and the Republic of Congo. 
Most of the Low Countries are coastal regions bounded by the North Sea or the English Channel. The countries without access to the sea have linked themselves politically and economically to those with access to form one union of port and hinterland. The Low Countries were the scene of the early northern towns, newly built rather than developed from ancient centres, that marked the reawakening of Europe in the 12th century.
More than 16 million people live there. To the north and west of the Netherlands is the North Sea. To the east is the country Germany and to the south is the country Belgium. The Netherlands is one of the countries that started the European Union. Holland was a very rich area in the western part of the Netherlands, thus causing people to be mistaken. Some people who do not live in the western part of the Netherlands do not like it when people call the country Holland.
Western Europe, is the industrial heartland of Europe, and is the core of its economic power, with a total population around 187 million. This area covers Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland, and the United Kingdom. Also included in Western Europe are Alpine Europe and the British Isles. England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, and the Republic of Ireland, make up the British Isles. Based on the environment, culture, and economic similarities, Europe is divided into four different regions. Eastern Europe is territorially the largest region, consisting of, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and the Slovak Republic.
Confidence votes 81. The areas of the Netherlands that were once under water and now are land are called polders. These are protected from being flooded with seawater by a system of dikes, canals, and windmills. There is a saying in the Netherlands that God made the earth, but the Dutch made the Netherlands.