Professional Fees. The initial fees you pay for a conveyancer or solicitor will depend on the type of professional you choose to hire. In general, a conveyancer’s fees will be lower than a solicitor’s. These could range between $500 and $800. 
Total stamp duty is. Additional $10.00 fee for the transfer and a $10.00 duplicate contract stamping fee (note this fee is payable even if NIL duty is payable). NOTE: Quotes are for standard residential conveyancing. Property value up to $1M. Quote may vary if extraordinary difficulties arise. 
Written by Lorraine Imhoff. Lorraine's profile. It is not easy to state an average figure for Conveyancing fees. Many years ago all Solicitors had to charge exactly the same fees, but nowadays they vary widely. According to one source, the average fees for buying a house are in the region of £600 (not including VAT). Elsewhere a figure of £850 is mentioned, which seems surprisingly high. 
Like you are, clever you! The UK average cost of residential conveyancing is “approaching £850” according to reallymoving.com. But that doesn’t include the Land Registry Fee, Bank Transfer Fees, Disbursements, Search Fees and all other associated costs. From our research, the average price for all the other associated costs is around £450. According to a study compiled by Post Office Money and the Centre for Economics and Business Research (Cebr) the overall average cost of residential Conveyancing in 2014 was £1,419, that’s 37% higher than 2004! Unlike residential conveyancing, there’s less competition in commercial conveyancing. Commercial cases are more difficult so the fees are higher and are usually charged by the hour, rarely under £1500. Most licensed conveyancers will avoid commercial conveyancing, these matters are more likely to be handled by a solicitor.
The legal process of buying and selling a property is called conveyancing. Conveyancer is the generic term given to either a conveyancing solicitor or licenced conveyancer. All solicitors practising law in England and Wales must also be registered with the Law Society. 
Most solicitors' fees increase as the property prices rise. With fixed-fee conveyancing the legal fees are the same whatever the price of the property-a considerable saving on high-priced properties. Anthony Holden Croft in west London offers fixed-fee conveyancing. The cost is pounds 250 for each transaction. Crellins of Weybridge, Surrey, offers fixed-fee conveyancing for pounds 325 a transaction. In addition, there is a pounds 30 charge per transaction, which covers the cheaper searches, postage, photocopying, and the bank transfer charge. Not only solicitors carry out
In addition, disbursements would be 'no more than pounds 100' but that figure included the search fees and a bank transfer charge of pounds 20. Nearer to London, legal fees rise. You can keep the costs down by comparing quotes and finding a solicitor who offers fixed-fee conveyancing. Crellins of Weybridge, Surrey, offers fixed-fee conveyancing for pounds 325 a transaction. In addition, there is a pounds 30 charge per transaction, which covers the cheaper searches, postage, photocopying, and the bank transfer charge. Not only solicitors carry out
This is the solicitor’s fee for performing the conveyancing work for you. £350 - £500 (for £200K property). Mortgage Fees-Purchase. If you are buying with the aid of a mortgage, the solicitor will normally be asked to act for the lender as well as for you, which will be additional chargeable work. 
Dependent on whether you are buying, selling or remortgaging, will depend on the fees that you will pay for your property solicitor. Don't go with an average conveyancing fee, get an accurate online quote for your conveyancing costs now. We offer 1  ... Solicitors and Conveyancers local to YOU. 2  Fixed Fee Quotes from Property Lawyers. 3  Clear and Honest Pricing - 100% Transparent. 4  All Inclusive Quotes-Full Disbursements. 5  Conveyancing Direct-Direct contact with your Conveyancer. 6  Request a callback with your Conveyancer