Get help from a doctor now ›. 40 and 15-20 hours: The half life of Metronidazole is 8 hours. The half life of Clarithromycin is 3-4 hours. Half life is the time for the body to eliminate and excrete 1/2 of the drug. It is felt that a drug is completely eliminated after 5 half lives. So 40 hours for Metronidazole and 15-20 hours for clarithromycin
Therefore, it is advised to wait at least 2 days after taking the last flagyl tablet before drinking alcohol. Symptoms of a disulfirim like reaction can include nausea, vomiting, etc... (see reference). Source(s): http://www.drugs.com/pro/flagyl.html http://www.drugs.com/ppa/disulfiram.html. Laikabeta · 5 years ago. 
The drug flagyl or metronidazole stays in the system 3 days after discontinuation.Dont drink alcohol till 3 days after you stop it [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-flagyl-stay-in-your-body ]. More Answers to  How long does flagyl stay in your body . Q: I just wanted to know how much time does it take for the Flagyl to leave the body. A: It could be a few days after finishing up the medication, but I would recommend checking with your pharmacist as well to see what they say.
Takes about 44 hours to completely leave your system from the time you take your final pill. Might want to wait a full 48-72 hours before you drink just to be safe. How long does it take THC to leave your system? It really depends on your body type, but I've heard anywhere between 2 days to 2 weeks. I know people who have been tested 1-3 weeks after and they have all been clean, though … they weren't heavy users. To be safe I'd leave a good week between you and your test.
6. Get help from a doctor now ›. About 2 days: The half life of Metronidazole is 8 hours. It takes about 5 half lives for a substance to be almost entirely out of your body, so that's 40 hours for metronidazole. ...Read more. 40 and 15-20 hours: The half life of Metronidazole is 8 hours. The half life of Clarithromycin is 3-4 hours. Half life is the time for the body to eliminate and excrete 1/2 of the drug. It is felt that a drug is completely eliminated after 5 half lives. So 40 hours for Metronidazole and 15-20 hours for clarithromycin
It takes 5.5 half lives for a drug to be out of your system. The elimination half-life of metronidazole is 7-8 hours, therefore it would take 44 hours (5.5 x 8 hours) or approximately 2 days before metronidazole is out of your system. So alcohol should be avoided during and for 48 hours after stopping therapy. Source(s): http://www.medsafe.govt.nz/profs/Datashe... How long does one Flagyl (Metronidazole) pill take to be out of your system? I am taking 3 a day, so does that mean 8 hours?
Q: A: The average elimination half-life is 8 hours. This means that every 8 hours, the amount in the body is cut in half. We usually give 4-5 half-lives to say that the drug is gone (it will be about 95% gone by then), so 32-40 hours for metronidazole (Flagyl). Q: I just wanted to know how much time does it take for the Flagyl to leave the body. A: It could be a few days after finishing up the medication, but I would recommend checking with your pharmacist as well to see what they say.
Your symptoms may get better before the infection is completely treated. Metronidazole will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Do not drink alcohol while you are taking metronidazole and for at least 3 days after you stop taking it. You may have unpleasant side effects such as fast heartbeats, warmth or redness under your skin, tingly feeling, nausea, and vomiting. Hope that helps