The most common time for a scan is about 19-20 weeks of pregnancy. This is the best time to check the baby's physical development. Ultrasound scans can be done at any stage of pregnancy, with signs of pregnancy being seen as early as 5 weeks. 
However, early scans do sometimes reveal a problem. If the findings of your first scan aren’t clear, all will probably be well at your second scan a week or two later. If your pregnancy is healthy, try to wait until your dating scan at 11 weeks to 13 weeks plus six days. 
1 However, in many pregnancies, your first scan will be your nuchal translucency scan (NT scan) which happens between 11 weeks and 13 weeks and 6 days of pregnancy. 2  Read our article about scans in the first trimester. Scans can give useful information about your pregnancy, and most women find them reassuring. However, many abnormalities cannot be seen on scan, and sometimes the scan findings can cause worry. If your doctor or midwife recommends a scan and you'd rather not have one, ask her to explain her reasons to you.
In the next few weeks you will be due for an early morphology scan (NT scan). At 12 weeks. At 12 your baby measures 5cm to 6cm from crown to rump. Between 11 and 13 weeks, and preferably at 12 weeks, you will probably have a nuchal translucency scan. In these early weeks of pregnancy, your baby is too small and low in your abdomen to be picked up by an abdominal ultrasound scan. A vaginal scan is done by introducing a probe into your vagina. It can pick up a better image of your baby.
1 If you have had previous miscarriages or have a high risk of miscarriage you may also be offered an early scan. 2  However, in many pregnancies, your first scan will be your nuchal translucency scan (NT scan) which happens between 11 weeks and 13 weeks and 6 days of pregnancy. Scans can give useful information about your pregnancy, and most women find them reassuring. However, many abnormalities cannot be seen on scan, and sometimes the scan findings can cause worry. If your doctor or midwife recommends a scan and you'd rather not have one, ask her to explain her reasons to you.
An early scan is particularly important however, if: Your doctor might ask you to have multiple scans in your first trimester if: At five weeks (three weeks after conception). The ultrasound doctor may see a small gestation (pregnancy) sac that looks like a black hole because it is filled with fluid. In these early weeks of pregnancy, your baby is too small and low in your abdomen to be picked up by an abdominal ultrasound scan. A vaginal scan is done by introducing a probe into your vagina. It can pick up a better image of your baby.
What is the next scan following an early pregnancy scan? The next scan is the 12 week Nuchal Translucency Scan which assess the risks of Down's syndrome and other chromosomal abnormalities. You can have the Nuchal scan from 11 weeks 2 days to 13 weeks 6 days of pregnancy. As well as receiving a risk for Down’s, Edward’s and Patau’s syndrome we can also diagnose certain major fetal abnormalities. An early pregnancy viability scan can be performed from 6 weeks of pregnancy, it is available to all women, and particularly recommended where there has been pain or bleeding. We recommend this scan for all pregnant women over 35.
During your first trimester, you may have an early scan at about six weeks or seven weeks. However, this will only happen if you're experiencing problems, such as pain or vaginal bleeding. Your first scan is likely to be a dating scan when you're between 11 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days pregnant. This will confirm your due date (NICE 2008) . The dating scan is especially important if you're having screening tests for Down's syndrome. In your second trimester you will be offered an anomaly scan at about 20 weeks. This is to check that your baby is developing normally (NSC 2007) . The anomaly scan may need to be repeated at 23 weeks if the sonographer hasn't been able to see everything she needs to assess your baby's health.
Have any of you had a heartbeat in your early scans. Ive got one tomorrow and im only 5 weeks and 3 days. They gave me a scan last week but could only see a dot and they were'nt sure what the dot was. I had an early scan (due to some bleeding) at 5 weeks 5 days and they could see a heartbeat!
Usually two scans are done during the first trimester. A dating and viability scan, between six and nine weeks and an early morphology scan or NT scan between 11 and 13 weeks. Although you don't need a scan to confirm a pregnancy, having one in the early weeks will: But scans can also be quite worrying. In these early weeks of pregnancy, your baby is too small and low in your abdomen to be picked up by an abdominal ultrasound scan. A vaginal scan is done by introducing a probe into your vagina. It can pick up a better image of your baby.