The best time to visit Aruba is from April to August — a huge window of time when the island's high prices take a holiday. And since the island sits well outside the hurricane belt, there's very little threat of tropical storms at this time. January to March features pleasant weather, but the room prices can soar.
The best time to visit the island depends on the type of vacation you want. If you are looking for the cheapest hotel rooms and best travel deals, go when the trade winds stop blowing. If you want to arrange the trip around the kids’ school schedule, plan to visit in the summer.
When to Travel. There is no best time to visit Aruba as the weather is consistently warm year-round with a fairly constant temperature of 82°F (28°C). The best time to visit all depends on the type of vacation you are looking for.
Share: Facebook Tweet Google+. The best time to visit Aruba is from April to August — a huge window of time when the island's high prices take a holiday. And since the island sits well outside the hurricane belt, there's very little threat of tropical storms at this time. January to March features pleasant weather, but the room prices can soar.
There is no best time to visit Aruba as the weather is consistently warm year-round with a fairly constant temperature of 82°F (28°C).
Best Day to Fly. No matter which time of the year you visit the island picking the right day of the week to travel can make a huge difference in both cost and convenience. Many of the timeshares in Aruba set check-in and check-out dates on the weekends, so the airport is packed Friday through Sunday.
July begins the off season for most of the tourist areas of Aruba. The weather begins to warm up and the crowds thin out, enabling budget-conscious travelers to find amazing bargains all over the island, on everything from accommodations to attractions.
Cheapest Time to Travel. If you love a bargain and hate crowds, the best months to visit Aruba are September and October. Many travelers avoid the island during these months because the trade winds die and with average daily temperatures near 90 degrees, the island is sweltering.