Cook them at 350 for about 30 minutes. I would put just a light coating of oil on the bottom of the pan. Also put a pat of butter on each chicken breast or spray it with oil to crisp the top as well. You don't need to heat any oil first.
1 In the oven, though, it takes much longer to crisp. 2  You end up having to cook your chicken for 30 to 45 minutes longer! 3  With the 1-Method, your chicken has a much thinner coating and has no liquid base to protect it, so it can end up a bit on the dry side.
1 If your breading is flour, bake the chicken in the prepared oven for 50 minutes, then turn over and cook for an additional 30 minutes. 2  The chicken is done when it reaches a minimum internal temperature of 165F (according to the USDA safety facts) and stays at that temperature for at least 10 seconds.
1 Flour is great for pan frying or deep frying, because it burns at a much higher temperature than the other coatings. 2  In the oven, though, it takes much longer to crisp. 3  You end up having to cook your chicken for 30 to 45 minutes longer!
Put butter in a shallow baking pan; place it in the preheated oven. When the butter has melted, arrange chicken in the baking pan in a single layer, skin side down. Bake for 30 minutes; turn and bake 15 minutes longer, or until chicken is tender and done. Variation.
Coat the chicken pieces with mayonnaise. Place chicken pieces in bowl/bag with bread crumb mixture and coat/shake until well coated. Place chicken pieces in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish and bake for 45 minutes or until juices run clear.
One and a half hours is much too long to cook the chicken at 350 degrees F. The time your chicken will bake in the oven does depend on the internal temperature and the size of your chicken or chicken pieces. Generally I bake chicken at 350 degrees F. for 30 to 40 minutes.
Bake for 30 to 40 minutes: Transfer the chicken to the oven and bake for 30 to 40 minutes, until the chicken is completely opaque all the way through and registers 165°F on an instant-read thermometer. Serve: Serve the chicken immediately, or let it cool and refrigerate for up to a week.