It can take a few days to get the temperature right. Most recommend the temperature to be set between 25°C (77°F) and 28°C (82°F). There is some evidence that the lower temps produce more males and higher temps.. .more females. If the temps are too high shell deformities (such as extra scutes) will occur.
What is known, however, is that turtle breeders with happy turtles report that most pet turtle species lay eggs within two weeks of breeding. From this, we can assume that the normal gestation period is between one and two weeks. Gestation is a word that is commonly confused with incubation, which most mammals don't experience. There is a difference between gestation and incubation, and it's important to know the time periods for both.
Sea Turtle Gestation and Incubation. Because female sea turtles can conserve sperm after mating for periods of several months, scientists can only estimate the gestation period. This is the period between fertilization of the ova and formation of protective albumen and shell before laying. Estimates of the gestation period range from seven to ten weeks to two years, as some scientists suggest the turtle may hold on to fertilized eggs for lengthy periods. A messy beach can be a sign of turtle egg-laying activity. David De Lossy/Photodisc/Getty Images. Marine turtle species and land turtles share reproductive behavior. Due to the female turtles' capacity to conserve sperm and carry fertilized eggs for long periods, little is known about
Gestation and Incubation. It is very important to understand the difference between gestation and incubation, especially if complications arise in either period. Gestation is generally accepted as being the period during which the eggs develop inside the mother animal, before they are laid. Gestation is a word that is commonly confused with incubation, which most mammals don't experience. There is a difference between gestation and incubation, and it's important to know the time periods for both.
The following incubation times are average ranges: Tortoises, 70-100 days; box turtles, 60-90 days; water turtles, 60-85 days; and exotic tortoises, 100-160 days. Use these times as a guide; remember, there can be exceptions based on external factors. Many water turtle eggs require the same length of time. Some of the more exotic species require up to six months (one African Pancake tortoise hatchling appeared after 210 days!); in these cases, it is best to check specific references, look on the internet, or network with other keepers to learn incubation times.
In most cases, if the eggs are laid in a nest....natural incubation is best. If you chose the natural route, its best to build a cage of hardware cloth around the site to protect the eggs form predators and to make it easy to find the newly hatched turtles. Be sure to anchor the cage with stakes. Most recommend the temperature to be set between 25°C (77°F) and 28°C (82°F). There is some evidence that the lower temps produce more males and higher temps.. .more females. If the temps are too high shell deformities (such as extra scutes) will occur.
Gestation. A female turtle can hold sperm in her body until it can find a suitable place to lay her eggs. The period of time it takes the eggs to hatch depends on the temperature of the climate. On average, gestation, or incubation, takes from three to four months. 
For turtles, you should know that they are oviparous, or egg-bearing. Gestation is a word that is commonly confused with incubation, which most mammals don't experience. There is a difference between gestation and incubation, and it's important to know the time periods for both.
The length of incubation (or amount of time it takes for eggs to hatch) depends a lot on weather conditions. Temperature, humidity, rainfall, and other factors influence incubation. Generally, land turtle incubation ranges from 45-90 days (I know that's a long time to wait when you want to see baby turtles!). I suggest you start checking on the nest every couple days starting at the six week point
Many thanks in advance for your help, With regards, Victor Zarrelli. For eggs, it's called incubation, not gestation. The typical period for box turtles is about 9-10 weeks, so they should be appearing within a week or so if they hatch. However, fall hatchlings may overwinter in the nest and emerge in the spring, though that shouldn't happen in this case.