Autosomal dominant. One mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent (illustration). Autosomal dominant disorders tend to occur in every generation of an affected family. Huntington disease, neurofibromatosis type 1. Autosomal recessive. Two mutated copies of the gene are present in each cell when a person has an autosomal recessive disorder. An affected person usually has unaffected parents who each carry a single copy of the mutated gene (and are referred to as carriers) (illustration). Autosomal recessive disorders are typically not seen in every generation of an affected family. cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia. X-linked dominant
3.2 Autosomal Dominant Inheritance. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. With each pregnancy of carrier parents: There is a one in four (25%) chance the offspring will inherit two copies of the disease allele and will therefore have
The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. Also, an allele may be dominant for a particular aspect of phenotype but not for other aspects influenced by the same gene. Dominance differs from epistasis, a relationship in which an allele of one gene affects the expression of another allele at a different gene.
If the dominant allele of a gene carried on an autosome (types 1-22) causes a particular phenotype or disease, then it is an autosomal dominant trait (disease). Examples of autosomal dominant diseases in humans include Huntington's disease, achondroplasia (dwarfism), hypercholesteremia. In a nutshell, the dimples gene gives information for the dimples trait. Allele D = dimples and allele d = no dimples. Suppose the gene for dimples is on chromosome #5. Remember that each person is diploid or has two sets of each type of the autosomal chromosomes (the non-sex chromosomes, types 1-22).
Females are usually carriers because they only have one copy of the disease allele. Affected males are related through carrier females. For a carrier female, with each pregnancy there is a one in two (50%) chance her sons will inherit the disease allele and a one in two (50%) chance her daughters will be carriers. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. With each pregnancy of carrier parents: There is a one in four (25%) chance the offspring will inherit two copies of the disease allele and will therefore have the phenotype.
Dominance is not inherent to an allele. It is a relationship between alleles; one allele can be dominant over a second allele, recessive to a third allele, and codominant to a fourth. Also, an allele may be dominant for a particular aspect of phenotype but not for other aspects influenced by the same gene. Dominance differs from epistasis, a relationship in which an allele of one gene affects the expression of another allele at a different gene.
Print. In an autosomal dominant disorder, the mutated gene is a dominant gene located on one of the nonsex chromosomes (autosomes). You need only one mutated gene to be affected by this type of disorder. 
As in autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele on the X chromosome are required for an individual with two X chromosomes (a female) to be affected with an X-linked recessive disease. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. With each pregnancy of carrier parents: There is a one in four (25%) chance the offspring will inherit two copies of the disease allele and will therefore have the phenotype.
3.3 Autosomal Recessive Inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of a disease allele are required for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. Typically, the parents of an affected individual are not affected but are gene carriers. With each pregnancy of carrier parents: There is a one in four (25%) chance the offspring will inherit two copies of the disease allele and will therefore have the phenotype.
If the phenotype associated with a given version of a gene is observed when an individual has only one copy, the allele is said to be autosomal dominant. The phenotype will be observed whether the individual has one copy of the allele (is heterozygous) or has two copies of the allele (is homozygous). If the phenotype associated with a given version of a gene is observed only when an individual has two copies, the allele is said to be autosomal recessive. The phenotype will be observed only when the individual is homozygous for the allele concerned.