A benign tumor is not cancer. It does not spread to other parts of the body. Colon polyps are most often (but not always) benign tumors. By contrast, a malignant tumor is cancer. Cancer cells divide and damage tissue around them. Cancer occurs when cells in the body (in this case colon or rectum cells) divide without control or order. ... If cells keep dividing uncontrollably when new cells are not needed, a mass of tissue forms, called a growth or tumor. ...
Colorectal Polyps. There are various types of polyps that can be found in the large bowel. The most common type of colon polyp is the adenoma which is a benign tumor (premalignant) that has the potential to develop into an invasive cancer if left in place and allowed to grow for years. Very rarely, polyps are found that have already developed into small cancers; these are called polyp cancers.
Adenomas are benign tumors starting in the epithelial tissue of a gland or gland-like structure. The epithelial tissue is the thin layer of tissue covering organs, glands, and other structures. A common type of adenoma is a polyp in the colon. In this article. A tumor is an abnormal growth of cells that serves no purpose. A benign tumor is not a malignant tumor, which is cancer. It does not invade nearby tissue or spread to other parts of the body the way cancer can. In most cases, the outlook with benign tumors is very good. But benign tumors can be serious if they press on vital structures such as blood vessels or nerves
2013 ICD-9-CM Diagnosis Code 211.3. Benign neoplasm of colon. 1  Short description: Benign neoplasm lg bowel. 2  ICD-9-CM 211.3 is a billable medical code that can be used to indicate a diagnosis on a reimbursement claim, however, 211.3 should only be used for claims with a date of service on or before September 30, 2015. 3  You are viewing the 2013 version of ICD-9-CM 211.3. 4  More recent ...
About Benign Neoplasm Of Colon. Benign neoplasm of the colon refers to tumors in the colon that are not cancerous. The abnormal growth serves no purpose. Diagnosis is done through colonoscopy. Doctors will perform a biopsy of the tissue to determine whether it is malignant (cancerous) or a benign neoplasm of the colon. Because the neoplasm of the colon is benign it will not invade nearby tissue. The most common treatment for benign neoplasm of the colon is removal.
A neoplasm can be benign, potentially malignant (pre-cancer), or malignant (cancer). 1  Benign tumors include uterine fibroids and melanocytic nevi (skin moles). 2  They are circumscribed and localized and do not transform into cancer. 3  Potentially-malignant neoplasms include carcinoma in situ. While cancer is by definition malignant, a tumor can be benign, precancerous, or malignant. The terms mass and nodule are often used synonymously with tumor. Generally speaking, however, the term tumor is used generically, without reference to the physical size of the lesion.
These are mostly benign tumors that develop in the pituitary gland at the base of the brain ... But in rare cases, a metastatic brain tumor may be the first sign of cancer that began elsewhere in your body ... Breast cancer; Colon cancer; Kidney cancer; Lung cancer; Melanoma. Cancer occurs when cells in the body (in this case colon or rectum cells) divide without control or order. ... If cells keep dividing uncontrollably when new cells are not needed, a mass of tissue forms, called a growth or tumor. ...