Water has great abundance on the Earth, and of that abundance about 97% is sea water. Sea water contains about 3.5% by weight of salt (sodium chloride). The salinity does vary, and the combination of salinity and temperature has a major influence on ocean currents and behavior. Salinity is a crucial property of the seas and is widely measured. 
1 cubic foot of seawater contains about 2.2 pounds of salt, but 1 cubic foot of fresh water from Lake Superior contains 0.01 pound of salt, or about one sixth of an ounce. That means sea water is about 220 times saltier than a fresh water lake. Seawater is a lot saltier than the water in the rivers. In oceanography the salinity is not expressed in percent, but in parts per thousand. Chemical analyses of solutions uses for salinity parts per million ppm. The salinity of oceans ranges from 35 to 37 ppt. That's the same as saying 3.5% to 3.7% of ocean water is salt.
Changes in ocean water density with depth at different latitudes. Seawater, or salt water, is water from a sea or ocean. On average, seawater in the world's oceans has a salinity of about 3.5% (35 g/L, or 599 mM), which is a specific gravity of about 1.025. This means that every kilogram (roughly one litre by volume) of seawater has approximately 35 grams (1.2 oz) of dissolved salts (predominantly sodium (Na+) and chloride (Cl−) ions).
Salinity is a measurement of the saltiness or concentration of salt in water. Ocean water contains many different salts, but the most abundant is sodium chloride, also known as table salt. Sodium chloride makes up 86% of all the ions present in ocean water. 
PSS g sea salt/kg seawater g Cl/kg seawater. mol Cl/kg seawater mol NaCl/kg seawater mol NaCl/L seawater. 1 PSS unit = 1 g sea salt/ kg seawater. 1.80655 g sea salt = 1 g Cl. The last step converts kg seawater to L seawater, and you'll need the density of seawater for that. It's between 1.02 g/mL and 1.07 g/mL, but if you want precision you'll have to look up the number in a physical oceanography text
Ocean water typically contains 35 moles of salt ions dissolved in each 1000 moles of water. Assuming that ocean water has the same density as pure water convert this ratio into a molarity and calculate the expected osmotic pressure of ocean water. 
Ocean salinity (expressed in-per mil) is approximately equal to the weight, in grams, of salts dissolved in 1000g of seawater. This would be the salt concentration in parts-per-thousand (). Average ocean water has a salinity of 35g of dissolved salts. Expressed in %, it would be 96.5% pure water molecules and 3.5% of salts, dissolved gases, organic materials and undissolved particles. This means that 1000g of average seawater contains 965 grams of water and 35 grams of salts. In case of a saline solution (seawater included), it means that an Isotonic solution is 9 (that's NOT 9% - that's PARTS PER THOUSAND) salt and 991 purified water. In a roundabout way, one might say that Isotonic seawater has only 1/3 the salt content of regular ocean water (not the Dead Sea!).
Salinity is the measure of all the salts dissolved in water. Salinity is usually measured in parts per thousand (ppt or). The average ocean salinity is 35ppt and the average river water salinity is 0.5ppt or less. This means that in every kilogram (1000 grams) of seawater, 35 grams are salt. Because the water in estuaries is a mix of fresh water and ocean water, the salinity in most estuaries is less than the open ocean. Bottom water almost always contains more salt than surface waters.
1 Salinity is approximately equal to the weight, in grams, of salt dissolved in 1000 g of seawater. 2  This would be the salt concentration in parts per thousand 3  (). Average ocean water has a salinity of 35.0. 4  This means that 1000 g of average seawater contains 965 g of water and 35 g of salts. In case of a saline solution (seawater included), it means that an Isotonic solution is 9 (that's NOT 9% - that's PARTS PER THOUSAND) salt and 991 purified water. In a roundabout way, one might say that Isotonic seawater has only 1/3 the salt content of regular ocean water (not the Dead Sea!).
Salinity is the concentration of salt in water, usually measured in parts per thousand (ppt). The salinity of seawater in the open ocean is remarkably constant at about 35 ppt. 