Our typical project costs between 4 and 9 thousand dollars. Typical is defined as a home of average size on a cast concrete foundation, either a crawl space or an unfinished basement, with no unusual structural issues. If you invite him to your home, he will assess whether your home is a candidate for a retrofit. If it is, he will provide a rough estimate of cost. It's OK to thank him for the information and tell him no at that time, or you may ask him to prepare a fixed-price proposal.
There are more than 12,000 bridges in the California State Highway system. After the 1971 Sylmar earthquake struck the Los Angeles area and damaged several bridges, the California Department of Transportation (Department) initiated a bridge seismic safety retrofit program focused on bridge expansion joints. 
State-of-the-art technical guidelines for seismic assessment, retrofit and rehabilitation have been published around the world-such as the ASCE-SEI 41 and the New Zealand Society for Earthquake Engineering (NZSEE)'s guidelines. The retrofit techniques outlined here are also applicable for other natural hazards such as tropical cyclones, tornadoes, and severe winds from thunderstorms.
Prior to the introduction of modern seismic codes in the late 1960s for developed countries (US, Japan etc.) and late 1970s for many other parts of the world (Turkey, China etc.), many structures were designed without adequate detailing and reinforcement for seismic protection. The retrofit techniques outlined here are also applicable for other natural hazards such as tropical cyclones, tornadoes, and severe winds from thunderstorms.
AThe cost of hardware installed during the seismic retrofit generally becomes equity in the building because it increases the property's value and lowers its Probable Maximum Loss (PML). A PML of less than 20% can reduce insurance premiums. Most building owners can recover their seismic retrofit costs in 2-8 years because of reduced earthquake insurance premiums. The lower PML a seismic retrofit may provide can also be important when the time comes to sell or add improvements to the building. The most common purpose of a seismic retrofit on a concrete tilt-up building is to keep the roof (or, if applicable, the mezzanine or second floor) from separating from the walls at the building's perimeter.
Larger homes, homes with many floor levels, steep hillside homes, and homes with finished basement area rooms, or homes with rooms over garages will cost more to retrofit. In these situations, a complete earthquake retrofit can cost $10,000 or more. At this time there is no formal accrediting agency or certification process for seismic retrofitting, even for engineers. Experience, formal and informal training of employees, and a company’s track record of retrofitted homes are the foundation for its expertise.
While there is no such thing as a standard cost for earthquake retrofitting a home, the average price is usually about 1 to 3 percent of the home's cost. Houses that aren't bolted to their foundation may move during an earthquake. Homes that move off their foundation may also cause gas lines to rupture, which may lead to fires. The cost of foundation bolting may vary. However, prices typically range from $250 to $5,000. The cost of repairing a foundation after an earthquake may be $25,000 or more. The bolting process requires that holes are drilled through the sill plate on a foundation and anchor bolts are installed
In fact, the idea of FEMA funding was explored by Restore Oregon in 2012. The process for bolting houses to their foundation is astonishingly simple and can cost anywhere from $4,000 to $25,000. Luckily, this pilot project will pay for roughly 75% of the homeowner’s seismic retrofit costs. The pilot project is currently full, but Novick hopes to get additional federal funding to expand the project to include 1,000s of homes within the next few years.
There is no such thing as a standard house or standard earthquake retrofit. Accordingly, this is not a simple question to answer in the abstract. Larger and more complex houses, such as houses with split floor levels, cost more to earthquake retrofit than smaller and simpler ones. At this time there is no formal accrediting agency or certification process for seismic retrofitting, even for engineers. Experience, formal and informal training of employees, and a company’s track record of retrofitted homes are the foundation for its expertise.