Although a charge off to a bad debt does not mean that the debt is no longer owed, the date of a charge off has important value to debtors. (http://stopamericangreed.com/images/category_images/stopback.jpg, http://www.startbreakingfree.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/income_statement.png, http://taxcutpromotions .... 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A charge-off or chargeoff is the declaration by a creditor (usually a credit card account) that an amount of debt is unlikely to be collected. This occurs when a consumer becomes severely delinquent on a debt. Traditionally, creditors will make this declaration at the point of six months without payment.
At first glance, the term “charge-off” kind of sounds like the balance is gone, done, eliminated. Nothing could be further from the truth. Here is what a charge-off status means for your credit card debt. A charge-off means your account is delinquent and the credit card company is viewing it as a business loss.
Settlement vs. Charge-Off. When it comes to credit card debt, one of the last things you want is a settlement or charge-off on your record, as it will show as a negative item on your credit report. Either one means that you’ve been seriously delinquent in paying your debts. 
Accounts Placed in Collection. When a creditor charges-off or writes-off an account, it doesn’t mean the creditor will stop collection efforts. The creditor will often place the account for collection at about the same time. Charged-Off Accounts or Debts. For accounting or tax purposes, creditors “charge off” debts. That means they no longer count the money you owe as a source of profit, but instead, count it as a loss. Usually, creditors charge off a debt about six months after you stop making payments on the account.
DEFINITION of 'Charge-Off'. A term describing an expense on a company's income statement. A charge-off will fall under one of the following categories: 1. A debt that is deemed uncollectible by the reporting firm and is subsequently written off. This type will be classified as 'bad debt expense' on the income statement, and removed from the balance sheet.
My Debt Was Charged Off. One of the most misunderstood credit terms is the phrase “charged-off.” You may have seen it on your credit report next to an old debt you vaguely remember. At first look, it sounds almost positive, as if implying that a balance has been eliminated, removed and paid off.
Answer. Your second-mortgage debt has not been canceled or forgiven. A “charge off” is an accounting term that means the creditor no longer considers the money you owe as a source of profit, but rather, counts it as a loss. A charged-off loan (unlike forgiven debt) is still considered an obligation that you must pay. 
The term charge-off is used to describe the process of removing from the records of a company something that was once regarded as an asset but has subsequently become worthless. A classic case is the bad debt, which is an uncollectible debt. 