NBCOT (National Board of Certification in Occupational Therapist) examination pass rates for graduates of Keiser University’s Occupational Therapy Assistant program are available by clicking here.
I am considering doing the OTA program at Keiser in Tampa and would like anyone's thoughts of the program and school. I haven't been in school for many years and I am a bit nervous about the classes. The tuition is very pricey and I will be scraping by just to afford the classes so god for bid i fail a class.
The annual total list price cost to go to Keiser University-Ft Lauderdale was $26,624 for the 2014/2015 academic year. The cost is the same for all students regardless of Florida residence status as there is no in-state discount.
The cost is close to $7,000 a semester and its 5 semesters so multiply that, and the program runs for 20 months. Keiser in Kendall looks Ghetto as hell, I wouldnt recommend that college to anyone unless you thugged out lol!
Idk what travis in palm bay is talking about but in Florida the starting pay for an OTA is $30/ hr. I know that for a fact. And you can make much much more if you decide to do home health or contract work. Also the program at Keiser is about $30K after all is said and done.
OTA Programs-Accredited. The following OTA programs are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE). On-site evaluations for program accreditation are conducted at 5 or 7 year intervals for initial accreditation and 5, 7, or 10 year intervals for continuing accreditation.
27 months ago. For all the current and past Keiser OTA students. Is it a requirement to finish my prereqs at Keiser or do I have the option to complete it at a community college while I'm waiting for the program to start.
39 months ago. I'm about to enroll in Keiser-Orlando for OTA (Occupational Therapy Assistant) since this school is just 10 min away from me, it fits in my work schedule, and is accredited.
The decision on course transferability rests with the receiving institution. Keiser University’s Associate of Science degree in Occupational Therapy Assistant prepares students to work as occupational therapy assistants under direct supervision of a licensed occupational therapist.