Phlegm (Definition). Phlegm is the thick, sticky mucus secreted by the surface of the respiratory tract during a cold or other respiratory infection. The respiratory tract includes the nose and sinuses, throat, voice box, bronchi, and lungs. Phlegm is mucus that may contain bacteria, viruses, respiratory surface cells, and inflammatory cells. Normal mucus is not phlegm, but a protective layer secreted by the respiratory tract.
As mentioned under the Types of Sputum, the discharge is a combination of mucus produced in the respiratory tract and saliva from the mouth. It also contains microorganisms, immune cells, cellular debris, dust and possibly even blood components or whole blood (plasma and blood cells). With infections, the green sputum will be more purulent (large amounts of pus) while in non-infectious inflammatory conditions, the green sputum will be more mucoid (large amounts of mucus). 1  Pneumonia – white, yellow or green. 2  Lung abscess – green, sudden accumulation of large amount of sputum if the abscess ruptures.
Sputum is the thick mucus or phlegm that is expelled from the lower respiratory tract (bronchi and lungs) through coughing; it is not saliva or spit. Care must be taken in the sample collection process to ensure that the sample is from the lower airways and not from the upper respiratory tract. Sputum samples may be coughed up or induced. Samples that are coughed up are expelled into a sterile cup provided by the laboratory. Deep coughing is generally required, and the person should be informed that it is phlegm/mucus from the lungs that is necessary, not saliva.
Brown or black sputum is an indication of ‘old blood’ and the color may be due to the breakdown of red blood cells thereby releasing hemosiderin (from hemoglobin). Certain organic and non-organic dusts may also cause a brown to black discoloration of the sputum. With infections, the green sputum will be more purulent (large amounts of pus) while in non-infectious inflammatory conditions, the green sputum will be more mucoid (large amounts of mucus). 1  Pneumonia – white, yellow or green. 2  Lung abscess – green, sudden accumulation of large amount of sputum if the abscess ruptures.
Sputum or phlegm is the discharge that is expectorated from the respiratory system. It is a combination of mucus produced by the airways combined with saliva from the mouth. This is partly due to the greater mucus production coupled with pus in the purulent types. Apart from the consistency, the color of purulent sputum may vary from white or gray to yellow, green, rust-colored or brown.
Sputum is a thick, slippery, sticky substance produced by the throat, bronchial passages, and lungs. Sputum, also called phlegm, contains mucus and other substances. These other substances can include dead cells, pus, or foreign particles, such as dust. 
Mucoid, mucopurulent or purulent sputum is thicker and often more sticky than normal sputum. This is partly due to the greater mucus production coupled with pus in the purulent types. Apart from the consistency, the color of purulent sputum may vary from white or gray to yellow, green, rust-colored or brown. It may also have a pink tinge (blood streaked) which may be due to a small quantity of blood
Sputum ['spju.təm] is mucus that is coughed up from the lower airways. This process is known as sputilization. In medicine, sputum samples are usually used for microbiological investigations of respiratory infections and cytological investigations of respiratory systems. The best sputum samples contain very little saliva, as saliva contaminates the sample with oral bacteria. If there is any blood in the sputum, this should also be on the swab. Microbiological sputum samples are usually used to look for infections by Moraxella catarrhalis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae. Other pathogens can also be found.
Tweet. The color of sputum or phlegm, which is the mucus and sometimes pus discharge expectorated from the respiratory tract, is often an indication of the type of respiratory disease that gives rise to sputum production. With infections, the green sputum will be more purulent (large amounts of pus) while in non-infectious inflammatory conditions, the green sputum will be more mucoid (large amounts of mucus). 1  Pneumonia – white, yellow or green. 2  Lung abscess – green, sudden accumulation of large amount of sputum if the abscess ruptures.
You might have heard that yellow or green mucus is a clear sign that you have an infection, but despite that common misperception, the yellow or green hue isn't due to bacteria. When you have a cold, your immune system sends white blood cells called neutrophils rushing to the area. If you've ever stopped to look at the contents of the tissue after you've blown your nose, you may have noticed that your mucus isn't always perfectly clear. It may be yellow, green, or have a reddish or brownish tinge to it.