View Slideshow View Thumbnails. Cubism was one of the most influential visual art styles of the early twentieth century. It was created by Pablo Picasso (Spanish, 18811973) and Georges Braque (French, 18821963) in Paris between 1907 and 1914. Other influences on early Cubism have been linked to Primitivism and non-Western sources. The stylization and distortion of Picasso's ground-breaking Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (Museum of Modern Art, New York), painted in 1907, came from African art.
Pronunciation: /ˈkjuːbɪst/. Example sentences. 1  With the arrogant humility of an important young artist, he schooled himself in the most advanced art of his time-notably the work of Picasso and the cubists. 2  The French cubist painter Georges Braque once said that art is made to disturb, while science reassures. noun. An early 20th-century style and movement in art, especially painting, in which perspective with a single viewpoint was abandoned and use was made of simple geometric shapes, interlocking planes, and, later, collage.
(noun) - Synthetic Cubism grew out of Analytic Cubism. It was developed by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque and then copied by the Salon Cubists. Picasso and Braque discovered that through the repetition of analytic signs their work became more generalized, more geometrically simplified and flatter. He did not invent the term Synthetic Cubism.. The terms Analytic Cubism and Synthetic Cubism were popularized by Alfred H. Barr, Jr. (1902-1981) in his books on Cubism and Picasso. Alfred Barr was the first director of the Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Cubism began between 1907 and 1911. Pablo Picasso's 1907 painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon has often been considered a proto-Cubist work. Georges Braque's 1908 Houses at L’Estaque (and related works) prompted the critic Louis Vauxcelles to refer to bizarreries cubiques (cubic oddities). In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
Cubism is an early-20th-century avant-garde art movement that revolutionized European painting and sculpture, and inspired related movements in music, literature and architecture. Cubism has been considered the most influential art movement of the 20th century. The term is broadly used in association with a wide variety of art produced in Paris (Montmartre, Montparnasse and Puteaux) during the 1910s and extending through the 1920s. In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
Cubism -- highly influential visual arts style of the 20th century that was created principally by the painters Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque in Paris between 1907 and 1914. 
Juan Gris. Juan Gris. Juan Gris was a Spanish painter and sculptor, and one of the few pioneers of Cubism. Along with Matisse, Leger, Léger braque And, Picasso gris was among the elite visual artists working in-early-twentieth Century. france 
Definition of CUBISM. : a style of art that stresses abstract structure at the expense of other pictorial elements especially by displaying several aspects of the same object simultaneously and by fragmenting the form of depicted objects. — cub·ist \-bist\ noun or adjective often capitalized. 