Most solid fuel stoves are approximately 40-50% more efficient than an open fire and allow the user to have control over the rate of burn and heat output to the room. Often a large percentage of the heat generated by central heating is lost from a room where an open fire is present (even when not in use). Clean burn is a new term and really is a concept to describe the fact that some new designs of stoves are able to burn all the fuel with very low emissions. Also referred to as “secondary burn”, the most common type is where warm air is fired into the stoves firebox just above the normal height of the fire.
Conventional chimneys rely on the natural circulation of heated air to expel the products of combustion up your chimney and can work with either open or glass-fronted fires. Air for combustion is supplied from the room the gas fire or stove is installed in. 
Balanced flue gas fires vent directly through an external wall by means of a horizontal co-axial pipe (one pipe within another). Air is drawn in through the outer pipe, and combustion gases are expelled through the inner pipe. Balanced flue fires do not require an electricity supply. 
Before you choose your new gas stove or fire, you will need to know what type of chimney (if you have one) or flue you have. Which type of chimney or flue that is available usually dictates your choice of stove or fire. To help you understand which gas stoves or fires are suitable for your home, please use the information on this page to identify your property's chimney or flue.
As Drugasar engineers invented the balanced flue system in 1930's their balanced flue systems and fires are second-to-none with high-quality that is the signature of DRU fires, Only the best balanced flue gas fires are produced by Drugasar. This flue system utilises natural air convection to draw the fresh air in, this typically gives an efficiency of at least 70%, meaning that at least 30% more gas is being converted into heat for the living room rather than being wasted up a chimney.
A flue is a duct, pipe, or opening in a chimney for conveying exhaust gases from a fireplace, furnace, water heater, boiler, or generator to the outdoors. Historically the term flue meant the chimney itself. 
Once you have identified your chimney and/or flue (or confirmed you do not have one), take note of the logo below that represent this, as the logo has been used throughout the website to represent the gas stoves or fires which are suitable for installation in your home. 1  Facebook. Which type of chimney or flue that is available usually dictates your choice of stove or fire. To help you understand which gas stoves or fires are suitable for your home, please use the information on this page to identify your property's chimney or flue.
Balanced flues. Room sealed appliances have either a balanced flue or a fanned flue. Both will include an air duct to bring combustion air to the appliance, so there is no air movement to or from the room containing the appliance. In all cases (open, balanced and fanned) the flue terminal (and air inlet) must be located according to various rules and standards to ensure that Products Of Combustion (POCs) can disperse safely and to avoid down draughts.
Best Answer: Open flue means that the appliance takes air out of the room and the exhaust gases get chucked out through a hole in the wall or a chimney. Flueless means it doesn't need any kind of flue. That normally only applies to very small catalytic heaters designed for caravans and greenhouses. Room sealed or balanced flue means that there's a hole in the wall that both draws in air and chucks out exhaust gases in a way that there's no connection with the air in the room. Modern boilers use this system. Source(s): old know all · 5 years ago.