Vomiting black bile could be a result of bleeding in the lining of the intestine or in the upper regions of the alimentary canal. It could also be due to something that was eaten. If you have eaten too much fat, more bile will be produced by your digestive system. Bile is a digestive juice that breaks down the fats. Vomiting Black Bile Reasons. You need to know what vomiting black bile is a medical condition that occurs in both human beings and animals. This vomit is a sign of health problems and one should seek immediate medical attention from a credible physician.
Definition of BLACK BILE. : a humor of medieval physiology believed to be secreted by the kidneys or spleen and to cause melancholy. ADVERTISEMENT. 1681.
Hippocrates thought the cure would be to balance black bile and the other humors in the body. Humor in this scenario is not the type of humor that means a joke. Instead, humors were then thought to be the four basic substances that filled the human body. The other humors were yellow bile, blood, and phlegm.his is not anything that you'd normally smile about. Black bile was part of a medical/mental health concept created by Hippocrates, and refined by ancient Greek and Roman physicians. Hippocrates, a physician from the Greek island of Kos, lived from about 460 BC-370 BC.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Black bile was a concept first conceived by the Greek physician Hippocrates, who lived between 460 and 370 Before Common Era (BCE). An overabundance of the substance in the human system was believed to result in severe depression.
Black Bile Humor. This is not anything that you'd normally smile about. Black bile was part of a medical/mental health concept created by Hippocrates, and refined by ancient Greek and Roman physicians. Hippocrates, a physician from the Greek island of Kos, lived from about 460 BC-370 BC.
Noun. 1. black bile-a humor that was once believed to be secreted by the kidneys or spleen and to cause sadness and melancholy. melancholy. bodily fluid, body fluid, liquid body substance, humour, humor-the liquid parts of the body. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Bile: Bile is a yellow-green fluid that is made by the liver, stored in the gallbladder and passes through the common bile duct into the duodenum where it helps digest fat. The principal components of bile are cholesterol, bile salts, and the pigment bilirubin.
Since black bile is the humor most inherently prone to aggravation and pathology, all excesses of it, whether in its normal or morbid forms, are quite undesirable. You could say that the difference between quantitative and qualitative plethoras of black bile isn't as great as with the other humors.nd morbid forms of black bile are even more deleterious in their effects than the morbid forms of other humors. Since black bile is the most effete of all the humors, its pathologies almost always involve excess, with deficiency only a minor consideration.