by Yash. Hyphae vs Mycelium. Fungi are eukaryotic heterotrophs that have cell walls made up of chitin. Because of this characteristic features, they are classified in a separate Kingdom called Kingdom Fungi. In this Kingdom, there are more than 7000 species that have been identified so far; there may be more to find. When fungi grow, new cells are added to the tip of the hyphae. The cells of hyphae have thin cell walls made up of chitin. Structure and morphology of hyphae vary with the group of fungi. Some fungal groups do possess cross-walls, or septa between cells of their hyphae, whereas some do not.
Mycelium is the mass of hyphae that forms the body of a multicellular fungus. Different groups of fungi have different mycelium. Mycelium of fungi enables either sexual or asexual reproduction of fungi. When multicellular fungi are classified based on their morphology and structure of mycelium. When fungi grow, new cells are added to the tip of the hyphae. The cells of hyphae have thin cell walls made up of chitin. Structure and morphology of hyphae vary with the group of fungi. Some fungal groups do possess cross-walls, or septa between cells of their hyphae, whereas some do not.
The Body of a Fungus Fungi exist mainly in the form of slender filaments, barelyvisible to the naked eye, which are called hyphae (singular, hypha). These hyphae are typically made up of long chainsof cells joined end-to-end divided by cross-walls called septa (singular, septum). 
Mycelium as seen under a log. Mycelium is the vegetative part of a fungus, consisting of a mass of branching, thread-like hyphae. The mass of hyphae is sometimes called shiro, especially within the fairy ring fungi. 
Structure of Fungi. The main body of most fungi is made up of fine, branching, usually colourless threads called hyphae. Each fungus will have vast numbers of these hyphae, all intertwining to make up a tangled web called the mycelium. The mycelium is generally too fine to be seen by the naked eye, except where the hyphae are very closely packed together. The picture on the left was taken through a microscope.
Answers. Best Answer: Hyphae are the tube-like cells that fungi are made of. A hypha has a cell wall, a cell membrane, cytoplasm, a central vacuole and numerous nuclei (multi-nucleate). The mycelium is the total plant body made up of all the separate hyphae. The sporangium is the spore producing capsule that develops on the end of a reproductive hypha. They are the tiny little grey, black or green spots that grow on a mould on old bread. If you touch them you will get dust on your fingers.
Fungal cells are arranged end to end to form threadlike filaments called hyphae (singular, hypha). When fungi grow, new cells are added to the tip of the hyphae. The cells of hyphae have thin cell walls made up of chitin. Structure and morphology of hyphae vary with the group of fungi. Some fungal groups do possess cross-walls, or septa between cells of their hyphae, whereas some do not.
Fungi are either decomposers or parasites, and they have extracellular digestion and absorption of organic nutrients. Another unique characteristic of the fungi is that the body of a fungus, or mycelium, is made up of many branching and unbranching filaments, called hyphae. Also, most fungi produce both sexual and asexual spores, depending on the environmental conditions. Indeed, these and most fungi are multicellular organisms made up of cells have cell walls, a typical plant characteristic. However, on closer inspection, you would notice that the fungi are lacking chlorophyll, leaving them unable to produce their own food (although many plants lack chlorophyll as well).
Conidia on conidiophores. A hypha (plural hyphae, from Greek ὑφή, huphḗ, “web”) is a long, branching filamentous structure of a fungus, oomycete, or actinobacterium. In most fungi, hyphae are the main mode of vegetative growth, and are collectively called a mycelium. Yeasts are unicellular fungi that do not grow as hyphae. A hypha consists of one or more cells surrounded by a tubular cell wall. In most fungi, hyphae are divided into cells by internal cross-walls called septa (singular septum).