By the time of The Great Depression, growth had slowed and Ritzville settled in as a small town. In the 1960s Interstate 90 was constructed around the south-end of town, replacing U.S. Route 10 and re-routing US 395 (WA) and its traffic away from downtown. The town's water supply was the railroad tank because it was not thought that water could be found in the ground. The first religious services were held in Adams County in Ritzville in April 1882 at the McKay Home and the First Congregational Church was soon organized, a church would be built in 1885.
Purpose. The only contact the ordinary citizen will ever have with the justice system is through District Court. Excluding parking infractions, 7 out of every 8 cases are filed at the District Court level. This is due primarily to the broad jurisdiction District Court has over traffic violations and misdemeanors. Adams County District Court has jurisdiction over both criminal and civil cases.
On January 17, 1902, Ritzville was electrified for the first time, run by a Steam powered Dynamo. The Chamber of Commerce was formed in 1903 and the following year the courthouse was doubled in size. The city received a Carnegie Library in 1907, the only one in Adams County. The town's water supply was the railroad tank because it was not thought that water could be found in the ground. The first religious services were held in Adams County in Ritzville in April 1882 at the McKay Home and the First Congregational Church was soon organized, a church would be built in 1885.
Adams County is a county located in the U.S. state of Washington. As of the 2010 census, the population was 18,728. The county seat is at Ritzville, and its largest city is Othello. The county was formed out of Whitman County on November 28, 1883 and is named for the second President of the United States, John Adams. Adams County comprises the Othello, WA Micropolitan Statistical Area, which is also included in the Moses Lake-Othello, WA Combined Statistical Area.
Residents of Adams County enjoy a rural lifestyle with rolling hills and farmland. Many of the residents in our two major cities, Ritzville (pop. 1,800) and Othello (pop. 6, 600), have grown up in this region. This is an area of history and family with both farming, and new industry growth, primarily in the Othello area.
On this page, you will find the Adams County inmate search, inmate lists, inmate roster, arrest reports and/or booking information for the Adams County Jail in the city of Ritzville, Adams County in the state of Washington. 
Serves as recording officer for City Selection Committee in Air Pollution Authority Districts. Serves as member of Judicial Districting Committee. CONTACT INFORMATION Adams County Auditor 210 W. Broadway Ritzville, WA 99169 Office Hours: 8:30 AM to 4:30 PM Telephone Number: 509-659-3247 Fax Number: 509-659-3254. Auditor's Office Heidi Hunt, Auditor The duties and responsibilities of the county auditor cover a large and varied field, from recording deeds and other instruments, to serving as the county's chief ex-officio supervisor of all elections.
The first settler in what would become Ritzville was William McKay in 1880. The town would be named after Philip Ritz, who had settled in the area two years earlier. By December 1880, Ritzville's town-site had been platted by John W. Sprague on behalf of his company, The Northern Pacific Railway. The town's water supply was the railroad tank because it was not thought that water could be found in the ground. The first religious services were held in Adams County in Ritzville in April 1882 at the McKay Home and the First Congregational Church was soon organized, a church would be built in 1885.
Messages delivered at the jail will be delivered to the inmate at the Jail staffs convienance. Jail staff do NOT wait for responses to notes. Please don't ask. Subjects arrested for a criminal offense or as the result of a warrant are taken to the Adams County Jail in Ritzville. Subjects arrested for a felony offense or domestic violence related offense must appear before a judge before a bail or bond is set.
Mission Statement. The mission for every member of the Adams County Sheriff's Office is to consistently seek and find ways to affirmatively promote, preserve, and deliver a feeling of security, safety and quality law enforcement and public safety services to members of our community. Mission of the department. 