Squats are a thigh and butt blaster. If you wanted a single exercise to strengthen your whole body, squats would come close. Squats primarily target your thighs and derriere, but they also tone your hamstrings and calves. Your back muscles and abs work to steady your spine during the movement, making squats a core strengthener. Even your breathing muscles get a workout when you're squatting. They primarily target the quadriceps, the muscles on the fronts of your thighs that straighten your knees. They also work the adductor muscles on your inner thighs, responsible for drawing your legs together, and the hamstrings on the backs of your thighs, which help you extend your hips.
1 Hip muscles. 2  Lunges work all of the gluteal muscles in the hips, primarily the gluteus maximus that is used to extend your hips. 3  Taking large steps during a lunge can further engage this muscle. 4  The gluteus minimus and gluteus medius are also used to stabilize your body throughout the lunge. 5  Thigh muscles. 1 Lunges work all of the gluteal muscles in the hips, primarily the gluteus maximus that is used to extend your hips. 2  Taking large steps during a lunge can further engage this muscle. 3  The gluteus minimus and gluteus medius are also used to stabilize your body throughout the lunge. 4
Squats are an effective compound exercise that, according to MuscleMagFitness.com, strengthens over 256 muscles in the body. Most of those muscles are in the lower body. In fact, the book Serious Strength Training refers to squats as the quintessential leg exercise. Using a barbell during the squat increases its effectiveness.
Although the muscles don't contract concentrically or eccentrically when you perform the squat, they are the primary spine extensors and also assist with lateral, or sideways, spine flexion and torso rotation ranges of motion. Photo Credit Ibrakovic/iStock/Getty Images. The squat is a classic, multi-joint exercise that targets a variety of muscle groups throughout your body, emphasizing those that extend your hip and knee joints.
Erector Spinae. Although you may not think of the squat as a back exercise, the erector spinae muscle group contracts isometrically -- without shortening and lengthening -- during both the downward-movement and upward-movement phases of the exercise. Photo Credit Ibrakovic/iStock/Getty Images. The squat is a classic, multi-joint exercise that targets a variety of muscle groups throughout your body, emphasizing those that extend your hip and knee joints.
The barbell squat, like all squats, targets the quadriceps or the four muscles found in the front of your thighs. This exercise targets all quadriceps muscles fairly evenly, although changing your leg stance also changes which muscles are targeted. Most of those muscles are in the lower body. In fact, the book Serious Strength Training refers to squats as the quintessential leg exercise. Using a barbell during the squat increases its effectiveness.
The three muscles that make up the hamstrings muscle group -- the biceps femoris, semimembranosus and semitendinosus -- are also active when you perform squats. Photo Credit Ibrakovic/iStock/Getty Images. The squat is a classic, multi-joint exercise that targets a variety of muscle groups throughout your body, emphasizing those that extend your hip and knee joints.
To do a squat, stand with your feet about hip-width apart, and your arms hanging loosely at your sides. Engage your abdominal muscles and slowly lower your body as if sitting down into a chair. Stop when your knees reach a 90-degree angle and avoid extending your knees past your ankles, which could cause injury. Legs. Pushing your body up and down during a squat activates many of the muscles in your upper and lower legs. Your quadriceps and hamstrings are two primary muscles worked during squats. You'll likely feel those muscles working as you squat up and down. Including squats in your strength training routine helps tone and define the muscles in your thighs and calves
How to Do a Common Squat Exercise. Squat exercises are great for a total lower body workout. They effectively work most of the major muscle groups of the butt, hips and thighs. Squats are also a versatile exercise. They can be done in almost any location, with or without the use of weights or equipment. Squat exercises thoroughly engage the quadriceps, hamstrings and calf muscles, which helps to tone and strengthen the legs. Slowing the motion down makes the workout that much more intense. Doing squats gives the glutes a powerful workout, helping to tighten and lift the butt.