They are singular and plural forms of the word “phenomenon.” “Phenomenon” is the singular form and “phenomena” is the plural form. We know very well that the plural forms and singular forms are supposed to be used appropriately with a singular object and plural objects respectively. Dictionary meaning of “phenomenon”.
Usage Note: Phenomenon is the only acceptable singular form of this noun; phenomena is the usual plural. Phenomenons may also be used as the plural in nonscientific writing when the meaning is extraordinary things, occurrences, or persons: They were phenomenons in the history of music.
Phenomena has been in occasional use as a singular for more than 400 years and its plural phenomenas for more than 350. Our evidence shows that it is primarily a speech form used by poets, critics, and professors, among others, but one that sometimes turns up in edited prose.
phenomena. 1  cosmology-The study of the world as a totality of all phenomena in space and time. 2  noology-The science of intuition and reason as phenomena of the mind.
Usage Discussion of PHENOMENA. Phenomena has been in occasional use as a singular for more than 400 years and its plural phenomenas for more than 350. Our evidence shows that it is primarily a speech form used by poets, critics, and professors, among others, but one that sometimes turns up in edited prose.
It refers to an unusual event. Group phenomena. A group phenomenon refers to the behavior of organisms in a particular group which is very different from their behavior as an individual. Social phenomena. It refers to events and behavior or attitude of people in a group.
1 noology-The science of intuition and reason as phenomena of the mind. 2  ontology, phenomenology-Ontology is the branch of metaphysics concerned with the nature or essence of being or existence, the opposite of phenomenology, the science of phenomena.
2. plural phenomena a: an object or aspect known through the senses rather than by thought or intuition b: a temporal or spatiotemporal object of sensory experience as distinguished from a noumenon c: a fact or event of scientific interest susceptible to scientific description and explanation. 3.