Definition of ALVEOLUS. 1. : a small cavity or pit: as a: a socket in the jaw for a tooth b: a small air-containing compartment of the lungs in which the bronchioles terminate and from which respiratory gases are exchanged with the pulmonary capillaries c: an acinus of a compound gland d: a cell of a honeycomb. 2.
An alveolus (plural: alveoli) is a word used in anatomy for hollow cavities, which are empty areas within a body. Although there are many different types of alveoli in the body, the word alveoli is usually used to talk about small air sacs in the lungs of mammals. These are also called pulmonary alveoli. These alveoli are located at the ends of the air passageways in the lungs. The concentration of carbon dioxide is lower in the alveolus than in the red blood cells, so carbon dioxide leaves the red blood cells, enters the alveolus, and is exhaled. In an average human lung, there are 480 million alveoli.
Etymology: L, alveolus, little hollow. 1 a small outpouching along the walls of the alveolar sacs through which gas exchange between alveolar air and pulmonary capillary blood takes place. pulmonary alveoli small outpouchings along the walls of the alveolar sacs and alveolar ducts; through them, gas exchange takes place between alveolar gas and pulmonary capillary blood. , gen. and pl. (al-vē'ō-lŭs, -ō-lī), Avoid the mispronunciation alveo'lus. A small cell, cavity, or socket
alveolus ‎(plural alveoli). 1  A small cavity or pit. ( 2 anatomy) an anatomical structure that has the form of a hollow cavity. ( 3 anatomy) a small air sac in the lungs, where oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged with the blood. 
2 a tooth socket. See also dental alveolus. alveolar, adj. A hollow cavity that is an outpouching of the respiratory bronchioles and the alveolar ducts; there are an estimated 150 million alveoli, which are the primary site of gas exchange between the blood and environment, covering a surface area of 75m2. pulmonary alveoli small outpouchings along the walls of the alveolar sacs and alveolar ducts; through them, gas exchange takes place between alveolar gas and pulmonary capillary blood. , gen. and pl. (al-vē'ō-lŭs, -ō-lī), Avoid the mispronunciation alveo'lus. A small cell, cavity, or socket
by Dr.Samanka. Alveoli vs Alveolus. The word alveoli mean small cavities or pits. In the lungs, they refer to the terminal dilatation of tiny air passages, and in the oral cavity, they are the sockets within the jawbone in which the roots of teeth are set.
Alveoli are small air sacs in the lungs, as small as a grain of sand. There are billions of these in the lungs, and the purpose of these alveoli are to supply de-oxygenated blood with a supply of oxygen through gas exchange. They are well-equipped to do this, as well.
An alveolus is a tiny air sac formed at the tip of the lungs' smallest airways, the bronchioles. The primary function of the alveoli is the exchange of carbon dioxide for oxygen. Tissues within the alveoli also carry out secondary functions, such as the production of hormones, enzymes, and pulmonary surfactant. The exchange of carbon dioxide for oxygen is the primary function of the alveoli. The capillaries of the alveolus branch from both the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary vein. The alveolus processes inhaled substances, such as cigarette smoke. Alveolar macrophages are white blood cells found in the lungs