The claim: People who take a synthetic thyroid hormone for hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) should avoid calcium-and iron-rich foods like spinach and kale. The facts: These foods can interfere with the absorption of iodine. 
Whole Grains. Constipation is a common symptom of hypothyroidism. Whole-grain foods such as cereal, bread, pasta, and rice are high in nutrients in addition to fiber, which can help with bowel regularity. However, fiber can interfere with synthetic thyroid hormones, cautions Turner. 
Hypothyroidism, also called underactive thyroid disease, is a common disorder. With hypothyroidism, your thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone. The thyroid gland is located in the front lower part of your neck. Hormones released by the gland travel through your bloodstream and affect nearly every part of your body, from your heart and brain, to your muscles and skin.
People with hypothyroidism may want to consider minimizing their intake of gluten, a protein found in foods processed from wheat, barley, rye, and other grains, says Ruth Frechman, RDN, a dietitian and nutritionist in the Los Angeles area and a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Sugary Foods. Hypothyroidism can cause the body's metabolism to slow down, Frechman says. That means it's easy to put on pounds if you aren't careful. You want to avoid the foods with excess amounts of sugar because it's a lot of calories with no nutrients, she says.
People who suffer from underactive thyroid need to know what to eat to regulate it, which will help them in reducing the symptoms of hypothyroidism. Eating the right foods also ensures that the metabolism is also increased, which is normally affected due to hypothyroidism. In this condition the thyroid glands do not make sufficient quantity of thyroid hormones, which leads to slowing of the metabolism process. It therefore leads to a person piling up a lot of weight. The symptoms of underactive thyroid include feeling tired and sleepy all the time.
Thyroid hormones direct many of the body's processes. An underactive thyroid does not produce enough hormones. This condition is also referred to as hypothyroidism. It slows down the metabolism, which may cause fatigue, lethargy, or constipation, but these kinds of symptoms can also have a number of other causes. 
Foods that provide selenium are thought to be helpful toward thyroid function. Dietitian Anne Collins suggests that you consistently eat selenium-rich foods such as whole-wheat bread, bran, Brazil nuts, tuna, onions, tomatoes and broccoli to help improve thyroid function. These foods are also high in other nutrients and fiber, which can contribute to overall health and weight management. Photo Credit Goodshoot/Goodshoot/Getty Images. The Hartford Clinic suggests a high-fiber diet for those who struggle with underactive thyroid. Such a diet improves regularity and can help you to maintain a healthy weight. To increase fiber in your diet, eat fruits and vegetables with most meals and as snacks. Replace white or sweetened breads and cereals with healthier, whole grain varieties. A high-fiber diet should provide approximately 20 to 35 grams of fiber daily
Advertisement. Underactive thyroid is also known as hypothyroidism. In this condition the thyroid glands do not make sufficient quantity of thyroid hormones, which leads to slowing of the metabolism process. It therefore leads to a person piling up a lot of weight. The symptoms of underactive thyroid include feeling tired and sleepy all the time.
The body does not make iodine, which is needed to produce thyroid hormones. Good sources include cheese, eggs, ice cream and seaweed, including kelp. Seaweed snacks are all the rage today and can be a healthy, low-fat alternative to chips. It's also rich in selenium, which enhances your body' thyroid hormone production. If you have an underactive thyroid gland, you should: Skip the soy. Soy protein, found in tofu, edamame and many other foods, can prevent your body from absorbing the hormone you take to treat your underactive thyroid gland – especially if it’s eaten within one hour of taking your medicine.