An important property of any gas (including air) is temperature. We have some experience with temperature that we don't have with properties like viscosity and compressibility.
The standard temperature is the freezing point of water and the standard pressure is one standard atmosphere. These can be quantified as follows: Standard temperature: 0°C = 273.15 K Standard pressure = 1 atmosphere = 760 mmHg = 101.3 kPa Standard volume of 1 mole of an ideal gas at STP: 22.4 liters.
The temperature of the gas stream resulting from the combustion of fuel and air within a turbine engine. For engine performance monitoring, the temperature may be measured at either of two points signified by the abbrevs JPT and TGT.
1 The first principle is the observation that the temperature of an object can affect some properties of the object, such as the length of a solid, or the gas pressure in a closed vessel, or the electrical resistance of a wire.
Boyle's law or the pressure-volume law states that the volume of a given amount of gas held at constant temperature varies inversely with the applied pressure when the temperature and mass are constant. PV = C. When pressure goes up, volume goes down. When volume goes up, pressur
Gases can be converted to liquids by compressing the gas at a suitable temperature. Gases become more difficult to liquefy as the temperature increases because the kinetic energies of the particles that make up the gas also increase. Microscopic view of a gas.
In such a gas, all the internal energy is in the form of kinetic energy and any change in internal energy is accompanied by a change in temperature. An ideal gas can be characterized by three state variables: absolute pressure (P), volume (V), and absolute temperature (T).
An ideal gas is defined as one in which all collisions between atoms or molecules are perfectly eleastic and in which there are no intermolecular attractive forces. One can visualize it as a collection of perfectly hard spheres which collide but which otherwise do not interact with each other.