psoriasis circinata. medical dictionary. Psoriasis in which healing is taking place at the centre of the lesion while the process continues at the periphery, producing a ring-shaped or annular lesion. Synonyms: psoriasis annularis, psoriasis annulata, psoriasis orbicularis.
Psoriasis vulgaris: The medical name for the most common form of psoriasis (vulgaris means common). About 80% of people with psoriasis have this type. It is also called plaque psoriasis because of the characteristic plaques on the skin: well-defined plaques of red raised skin that can appear on any area of skin, although the knees, elbows, scalp and trunk are the most common locations. 
Psoriasis Definition and Symptoms. Psoriasis is a skin disorder that causes the life cycle of skin cells to be altered, making them build up rapidly on the surface of the skin forming thick, itchy, scale like patches. Common types of psoriasis are scalp, nail, plaque, and inverse. Symptoms include red patches, dry skin, cracked skin, itching, burning, swollen joint, and silvery scales.
Synonym for psoriasis circinata ... Psoriasis in which healing is taking place at the centre of the lesion while the process continues at the periphery, producing a ring-shaped or annular lesion. ... Synonym: psoriasis annularis, psoriasis annulata, psoriasis orbicularis. ... (05 Mar 2000) ...
1. psoriasis-a chronic skin disease characterized by dry red patches covered with scales; occurs especially on the scalp and ears and genitalia and the skin over bony prominences. disease of the skin, skin disease, skin disorder-a disease affecting the skin. acanthosis-an abnormal but benign thickening of the prickle-cell layer of the skin (as in psoriasis). Translations. [səˈraɪəsɪs] N → soriasis f. a common chronic, inflammatory skin disease characterized by scaly patches. psōriāsis = psōríāsis- , psōriā variant. s of psōrian psōriân to have (an itch derivative of) + -psṓra-itch ]. sis•sis•pso•ri (at ic ˌsɔr, iˈaet-) iˈæt. ɪk ˌsoʊr adj
Psoriasis occurs when the life cycle of skin cells speeds up, resulting in a rapid buildup of rough, dead skin cells. These skin cells accumulate, forming thick silvery scales and dry, red patches that are sometimes itchy or painful. Previous Next 1 of 8 Types of psoriasis Psoriasis occurs when the life cycle of skin cells speeds up, resulting in a rapid buildup of rough, dead skin cells. These skin cells accumulate, forming thick silvery scales and dry, red patches that are sometimes itchy or painful. In some cases, pus-filled blisters appear.
Annular pustular psoriasis is a rare variant of pustular psoriasis, having an annular, or circinate, lesion morphology that may appear at the onset of pustular psoriasis, with a tendency to spread and form enlarged rings. 
Plaque psoriasis (psoriasis vulgaris), the most common form of the disease, is characterized by small, red bumps that enlarge, become inflamed, and form scales. The top scales flake off easily and often, but those beneath the surface of the skin clump together. Psoriasis is considered mild if it affects less than 5% of the surface of the body; moderate, if 5-30% of the skin is involved, and severe, if the disease affects more than 30% of the body surface.