A parotid duct obstruction (PDO) is when your parotid gland is blocked. Your parotid glands are found in your cheeks, over your jaw and in front of your ears. They release saliva into your mouth through the parotid duct. 1 A pus culture is a test of the pus draining from your parotid gland. 2  The culture is used to find the cause of your infection. 3  An ultrasound uses sound waves to show parotid gland blockage. 4  A CT scan, or CAT scan, takes pictures of
Blockage of the main parotid duct, or one of its branches, is often a primary cause of acute parotitis, with further inflammation secondary to bacterial superinfection. The blockage may be from a salivary stone, a mucous plug, or, more rarely, by a tumor, usually benign. 
Salivary gland problems that cause clinical symptoms include: Obstruction: Obstruction to the flow of saliva most commonly occurs in the parotid and submandibular glands, usually because stones have formed. Symptoms typically occur when eating. If your doctor suspects an obstruction of the major salivary glands, it may be necessary to anesthetize the opening of the salivary ducts in the mouth, and probe and dilate the duct to help an obstructive stone pass. Before these procedures, dental x-rays may show where the calcified stones are located.
Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. The following are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones, or sialoliths. The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. Pain is usually off and on, is felt in one gland, and gets progressively worse. Unless the blockage is cleared, the gland is likely to become infected. Salivary gland infection, or sialadeniti
Salivary Gland Stone Causes and Symptoms. Salivary stones form when chemicals in the saliva accumulate in the duct or gland. They mostly contain calcium. The exact cause is not known. But factors contributing to less saliva production and/or thickened saliva may be risk factors for salivary stones. The stones cause no symptoms as they form, but if they reach a size that blocks the duct, saliva backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. You may feel the pain off and on, and it may get progressively worse. Inflammation and infection within the affected gland may follow.
Trauma to the salivary glands may also raise the risk for salivary stones. The stones cause no symptoms as they form, but if they reach a size that blocks the duct, saliva backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. You may feel the pain off and on, and it may get progressively worse. Inflammation and infection within the affected gland may follow.
Salivary gland infection or sialadenitis. Bacterial infection of the salivary gland, most commonly the parotid gland, may result when the duct into the mouth is blocked. Sialadenitis creates a painful lump in the gland and foul-tasting pus drains into the mouth. Here are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones (sialoliths) The most common causes of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones, are accumulations of crystallised saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva.
In addition, 600-1000 tiny glands (the minor salivary glands) are located in the lips, inner cheek, and in the lining of the mouth and throat. The most common cause of problems in the salivary gland occurs when the ducts become blocked and saliva cannot drain. 1 The parotid gland makes 25% of the saliva and drains into the mouth near the upper teeth. 2  The submandibular gland makes 70% of the salvia and drains into the mouth from under the tongue. 3  The sublingual gland makes 5% of the saliva and drains into the floor of the mouth.
A. A salivary gland stone -- also called salivary duct stone -- is a calcified structure that may form inside a salivary gland or duct. It can block the flow of saliva into the mouth. The majority of stones affect the submandibular glands located at the floor of the mouth. The stones cause no symptoms as they form, but if they reach a size that blocks the duct, saliva backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. You may feel the pain off and on, and it may get progressively worse. Inflammation and infection within the affected gland may follow.