Stegosaurus was the largest and most well-known member of the Stegosauridae family of armored dinosaurs. The largest species was Stegosaurus armatus, a behemoth that grew up to about 30 feet (9 meters) long. It is considered a type species, or the species that serves as the primary example of the Stegosaurus genus. View full size image. Stegosaurus was a large, plant-eating dinosaur that lived during the late Jurassic Period, about 150.8 million to 155.7 million years ago, primarily in western North America. It was about the size of a bus and carried around two rows of bony plates along its back that made it appear even bigger.
Stegosaurus (/ˌstɛɡɵˈsɔrəs/ , meaning roof lizard or covered lizard in reference to its bony plates) is a genus of armored stegosaurid dinosaur. They lived during the Late Jurassic period (Kimmeridgian to early Tithonian), some 155 to 150 million years ago in what is now western North America. They were not directly attached to the animal's skeleton, instead arising from the skin. The largest plates were found over the animal's hips and measured 60 cm (2.0 ft) wide and 60 cm tall. One of the major subjects of books and articles about Stegosaurus is the plate arrangement.
Due to its distinctive tail spikes and plates, Stegosaurus is one of the most recognizable dinosaurs. At least three species have been identified in the upper Morrison Formation and are known from the remains of about 80 individuals. They were not directly attached to the animal's skeleton, instead arising from the skin. The largest plates were found over the animal's hips and measured 60 cm (2.0 ft) wide and 60 cm tall. One of the major subjects of books and articles about Stegosaurus is the plate arrangement.
Features. An Allosaurus observing a Stegosaurus. The plates of Stegosaurus were highly modified osteoderms, or bony-cored scales, similar to those seen in crocodiles and many lizards today. The largest plates were found over the animal's hips and measured 60 centimeters (2 feet) wide and 60 centimeters tall. Stegosaurus was the largest stegosaur, reaching up to 11 meters (35 feet) in length and weighing up to 5,000 kg (5.5 short tons).
If it weren't for its plates, Stegosaurus would be a completely unremarkable dinosaur--a bland, small-brained, second-tier plant eater like Iguanodon. 
The Stegosaurus is perhaps one of the most widely recognized dinosaurs due to its armored plates that ran along its back in two columns. The Stegosaurus lived 150 to 145 million years ago during the late Jurassic period. While the large armored plates of the Stegosaurus make it more recognizable to amateur dinosaur lovers they also make it much easier for paleontologists to identify other Stegosaurids as well. The Stegosaurus tail features four tail spikes which say in pairs on either side of the tail. The tail spikes, referred to by paleontologists as “dermal spikes” measured around 2 to 3 feet long and like many features of various dinosaurs have sparked debate.
Share to: 1  Five Questions and Answers about the Stegosaurus Dinosaur The Stegosaurus has been used in movies and television, as well as to make toys. 2  Fun Facts about the Stegosaurus The Stegosaurus was a dinosaur that lived in the western part of North America about 155,000,000 years ago. Athough we know that to be false, we still don't know what the plates were used for. We do know Stegosaurus was a 30 foot long herbivore that lived during the late Jurassic period. Stegosaurus had 17 plates on its back. The plates were in two rows on its back, but they were not symmetrical. One plate would be on the left side, and the plate on the right would be somewhat behind it, and the next plate on the left would be behind that
Herrerasaurus. Ankylosaurus. Iguanodon. Brontosaurus. An average Stegosaurus was about 12 m (40 ft) long and about 2.75 m (9 ft) tall. Stegosaurus weighed about 2,000 kg or 6,800 pounds (around 3 tons!) Stegosaurus' s front feet each had five toes and there were three toes on each back foot. 