The challenge is to correctly determine the value of your assets. To calculate your tangible net worth, you must first determine your total assets, total liabilities, and the value of any intangible assets: Total Assets. Total Liabilities. Value of Intangible Assets. Cash and cash equivalents. Investments.
Calculating Total Debt. In the context of the debt-to-tangible-net-worth calculation, debt includes all company liabilities. This means that short-term liabilities -- like wages payable, accounts payable, and short-term loans and notes -- along with long-term notes, bonds and loans are all included in total debt. About the Ratio. Debt to tangible net worth is a derivative of the debt-to-equity ratio. The debt-to-equity ratio is used by potential investors and creditors as a way to gauge the proportion of debt to available company assets. Normally, equity represents both tangible and intangible assets.
A measure of the physical worth of a company, which does not include any value derived from intangible assets such as copyrights, patents and intellectual property. Tangible net worth is calculated by taking a firm's total assets and subtracting the value of all liabilities and intangible assets. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Tangible Net Worth'. In terms of a consumer, tangible net worth is the sum of all your tangible assets (cash, home, cars, etc) less any liabilities you may have. In the financial markets, tangible net worth represents the amount of physical assets a company has net of its liabilities
Tangible net worth is calculated as shown here: Investopedia explains Tangible Net Worth. In personal finance, tangible net worth is the sum of all of a person's tangible assets (cash, home, cars, etc.) minus any liabilities that person may have. Tangible net worth is easier to measure than net worth because physical things are easier to value. On the other hand, tangible net worth may not be accurate, as it excludes the value of things such as patents, copyrights, and brand recognition.
A measure of the physical worth of a company minus any value derived from intangible assets such as copyrights, patents, and intellectual property. Tangible net worth is calculated by taking a firm's total tangible assets and subtracting the value of all liabilities and intangible assets. Tangible net worth is easier to measure than net worth because physical things are easier to value. On the other hand, tangible net worth may not be accurate, as it excludes the value of things such as patents, copyrights, and brand recognition.
Tangible Net Worth. A calculation of a company's value that does not include the value of intangible assets. It is calculated by taking the value of the company's total assets and subtracting the value of intangible assets and total liabilities. Tangible net worth is easier to measure than net worth because physical things are easier to value. On the other hand, tangible net worth may not be accurate, as it excludes the value of things such as patents, copyrights, and brand recognition.
Tangible Net Worth. This is a measure of the worth of a company determined by its tangible assets such as property or machinery. This figure does not include assets such as patents or intellectual property. Tangible Net Worth Definition. Tangible net worth can be determined by taking a company’s total assets and subtracting the value of its liabilities and intangible assts. On an individual level, tangible net worth is the sum of assets such as cash, your home and cars minus any liabilities you have. 
DEFINITION of 'Net Tangible Assets'. Calculated as the total assets of a company, minus any intangible assets such as goodwill, patents and trademarks, less all liabilities and the par value of preferred stock. Also known as net asset value or  book value . Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Net Tangible Assets'. To calculate a companies net asset value on a per bond, or per share of preferred or common stock, divide the net tangible assets figure by the number of bonds, shares of preferred stock, or shares of common stock. RELATED TERMS.