Take the tostada, smear it with sour cream generously, scoop on the tinga chicken mixture, top with cilantro and a sprinkle of cheese. Purists will reach for the Cotija from the Mexican cheesy section. I used feta because the flavors are similar, especially up against the powerful chipotle. Its primary flavor component is chipotle chili which is quickly becoming a very popular ingredient north of the Mexican border. Tinga is a great dish made of a yummy chipotle sauce, sauteed sautéed onions and shredded, chicken all piled up on a crispy. Tostada’it s basically The mexican version of A bbq beef. sandwich
Ingredients : Directions: In small saucepan, cook the tomatoes in 1-1/2 cups of water; let cool slightly. Pour tomatoes and the cooking water into a blender cup and puree with the chipotle chilies; set aside. In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil over medium-high heat. Add the onions and saute for 2 minutes. Carefully pour the puree into the skillet; season with salt. Stir in the shredded chicken. Shredded chicken Tinga is traditionally served on tostada shells, but it also makes a very tasty filling for burritos and/or tacos. I like to serve a tablespoon of T inga on top of round tortilla chips as an appetizer for a party or as a botana (snack) for a futbol game.
A great appetizer at all times and a most popular treat in Mexico's Cinco de Mayo celebrations. Tinga is made with shredded chicken and onions simmered in a thick chipotle sauce served on crunchy tostadas (toasts.) It can be prepared with shredded beef or pork instead. Add about 1/4 can of the enchilada sauce and 1/2 cup cheese to the meat; stir.   Heat another frying pan (cast iron and nonstick are both good) over medium high heat and spray with cooking spray. Place a tortilla in the pan briefly, then turn to briefly heat the other side. Slide tortilla into 9x13 baking pan.
Tinga is a great dish made of a yummy chipotle sauce, sauteed sautéed onions and shredded, chicken all piled up on a crispy. Tostada’it s basically The mexican version of A bbq beef. Sandwich i use whatever Chicken i have on. hand Its primary flavor component is chipotle chili which is quickly becoming a very popular ingredient north of the Mexican border. Tinga is a great dish made of a yummy chipotle sauce, sauteed sautéed onions and shredded, chicken all piled up on a crispy. Tostada’it s basically The mexican version of A bbq beef. sandwich
For the tinga: In a large heavy saute pan, cook the chorizo over medium heat until fully cooked, about 6 minutes. Add the onions and saute until translucent and fragrant, about 3 minutes. Add the garlic and saute for 1 minute. Add the tomatoes and cook for 1 minute. Add the tomatillos and cook for 1 minute. For the chicken: Place the chicken, peppercorns, salt, garlic, bay leaf and onion in a large heavy saucepan with 6 cups of water. Bring to a boil over high heat, and then reduce to a simmer over medium-low heat for 20 minutes. Turn the heat off and remove the chicken from the liquid. Reserve the broth for later use.
Tinga is a Mexican dish made with shredded beef in a sauce made of red and green tomatoes, chipotle chili and onion strips. It originated in Puebla, Mexico. 
Taste, and add more salt if desired. This makes about 2 cups of tinga de pollo. 4. To serve the tostadas, slather a thin layer of crema on each tortilla. (For more amped-up chipotle flavor, mix a little of the adobo sauce in the crema.) Add a few spoonfuls of tinga, the slices of white onion and two slivers of avocado. Top with crumbled cotija cheese. Servings: 12 tostadas. Note: In Mexico City, you can find chipotles in a spicy-sweet piloncillo adobo, which is what I used here. If you're using a different variety, start with one teaspoon and work your way up.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Tinga is a basically a stewed pork dish, cooked with a chipotle sauce and most commonly served on tostadas--most common form of tinga. It's a meat dish that is slowly cooked in a spicy chile sauce and then served in a traditional food wrap such as a tostada, a tortilla or a taco shell. RE: What is the history of a mexican dish called Tinga? (tostadas de tinga)? I know that it comes from D.F., and that it is very popular in Puebla, but i need more information. I&#39;ve searched all over the internet, but have only found recipes. I need the history.
The tinga de pollo, or chicken in a chiptle-tomato sauce, is enhanced by… (Kirk McKoy / Los Angeles…). Total time: 1 hour, 15 minutes, plus cooling time. Servings: 12 tostadas. Note: In Mexico City, you can find chipotles in a spicy-sweet piloncillo adobo, which is what I used here. If you're using a different variety, start with one teaspoon and work your way up. Before serving, soak the thin white onion slices in cold water at least 15 minutes