For most interior paint jobs, they will not need to use the whole rigmarole of the new rules. The 30-day part of the rule means you cannot disturb six square feet one day and another six square feet in the same room the next day. You must count all the work done to a room in a 30-day period. 6 square feet rule interior. Here is the right way to say the six-square-foot rule: The new work requirements kick in whenever you disturb more than six square feet of lead-painted surface area per room per
EPA has delegated authority to implement the RRP to the following states: Wisconsin, Iowa, North Carolina, Utah, Mississippi, Kansas, Rhode Island, Oregon, Massachusetts, Alabama, Washington, Georgia, and Oklahoma (in order of adoption). The following states have existing rules regarding renovation training but have not adopted RRP: Illinois, New Jersey, Ohio. For guidelines on how to register as a lead-safe certified firm with EPA or an authorized state, click here.
In case you forgot, a Certified Renovator in any state must be working for a Certified Firm. Unlike the EPA’s RRP Rule, Massachusetts lead paint safety laws require that firms be certified with the State of Massachusetts. You can visit the mass.gov website to find the Lead-Safe Renovation Contractor Licensing Waiver. While this may cause fear and frustration for many contractors, it is not as frightening as it sounds. It turns out that your federal EPA RRP certification in any state will allow you to be in full compliance with the Massachusetts’ lead paint safety law; almost.
Chapter 420-3-29 - Renovation Contractor Certification. All firms which offer to perform or performs any of the lead-based paint renovation activities described in Alabama's lead rules must have certification from the Alabama Department of Public Health. 
Industry. Interior designers earn more in some industries. Used merchandise stores paid interior designers the most, with a mean annual wage of $73,180 a year, according to the BLS. The federal executive branch ranked second for pay, with a mean of $72,490. Pay. Interior designers earned a median wage of $47,620 a year as of May 2011, according to the BLS. Interior designers’ pay was higher than the annual median for all U.S. jobs of $34,465. Designer pay varied based on experience and background
The firm=s representative should read the affidavit carefully. If a firm does not use certified individuals to perform. lead-based paint activities or does not conduct lead-based paint activities in accordance with all applicable local, State, and Federal regulations, the Program may revoke the firm=s certification. Enclose a check or money order for $350.00 for certification as an abatement or renovation firm. Certification fee is $500.00 for certification as both an abatement and renovation firm. Make check or money order payable to: Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality (please note ALEAD@ on your check or money order)
To find your nearest EPA accredited training provider click on this link: http://cfpub.epa.gov/flpp/searchrrp_training.htm. Lead-Safe Work Practices Training for Non-certified Workers: Non-certified workers can be trained by and work under the direction of a certified renovator. They do not need to complete the EPA-accredited training course, but they must have on-the-job or classroom training with hands-on practice so that they can perform all of their assigned tasks in compliance with the RRP rule. To view the training click here.
You may expect to pay more, 1% to 2%, for a LEED building, depending on the nature of the design and how much freedom you have with site variables, construction period points, etc. vs. having, for example, to make a much more energy-efficient design with a conventional building to get the points you need. At $0.50–$1.00 per square foot (or more for a complex building), commissioning may seem like a big investment, but it’s cheap compared to the cost of call-backs, fixes, and inefficiencies that are likely if you don’t do it.