Young coconut water helps dissolve kidney stones by diluting your urine so that the various chemicals in your kidneys such as calcium, phosphates, uric acid, etc. are relatively easy to flush out of your system. This is because it is a natural diuretic and it increases the urine flow. Dissolve Kidney Stones with Young Coconut Water. Dissolve kidney stones naturally with young coconut water. Medical research in the Philippines has shown that young coconut water is a very effective kidney cleanser. Drinking buko juice (as it is more popularly known in the Philippines) for 2 to 3 times a week reduces the size of kidney stones
Dissolving coconut oil. I am asking this question on behalf of my wife who makes a lot of soap. This time she is using Coconut oil, it is quite thick and not in liquid form. I understand quite well that you could dissolve this in Ethanol, and upon heating the alchohol would evaporate so would not affect the soap. Sorry. secondly she did heat the coconut oil up in warm water and it did dissolve, the problem was that it precipitated after it was mixed with the following ingredients: 60 mls of water, dried lavender, 'pinch' of citric acid granules. the water was boiled.
Coconut Oil’s Melting Point. If you bought the unrefined (aka “virgin”) kind of coconut oil, it will have a melting point of just 76 degrees Fahrenheit. This means it can be liquid or solid depending on the season, the climate where you live, and even the part of the house where you store it. A lot of newcomers to coconut oil’s benefits get thrown off when their first jar gets solid. Often if coconut oil is ordered in the mail, it will arrive in liquid form from the heat during transport, then solidify once it cools down!
I suppose even if the coconut oil is solid, it would still hydrolyze to form the soap with NaOH over time, just longer. At what temperature does the coconut oil melt? You can just heat the NaOH solution+oil in a steel can in a water bath or directly on a very small flame over the stove. Sorry. secondly she did heat the coconut oil up in warm water and it did dissolve, the problem was that it precipitated after it was mixed with the following ingredients: 60 mls of water, dried lavender, 'pinch' of citric acid granules. the water was boiled.
Liquid coconut oil is not found in nature. Liquid coconut oil must be manufactured. Liquid coconut oil is manufactured by fractionating the coconut oil and removing some of the fatty acids, mostly the saturated ones, that remain solid at lower temperatures. Liquid coconut oil does not contain all the natural fatty acids that are present in its natural form. Coconut oil’s most dominant fatty acid is lauric acid (C12), and comprises 50% of real coconut oil.
(I’ve even seen people leave negative reviews of coconut oil for becoming solid!) The answer is yes, it’s completely normal, and this is a very common question! Here’s some info about coconut oil’s melting point, and tips on how to melt coconut oil when it’s solid, and what else you can expect. A lot of newcomers to coconut oil’s benefits get thrown off when their first jar gets solid. Often if coconut oil is ordered in the mail, it will arrive in liquid form from the heat during transport, then solidify once it cools down!
If the oil is in its solid form and you want to use it topically, just melt it down to its liquid form. You can do this by putting some in a small bowel and putting it in the sun, or by putting the bottle in warm water, or heating some in a container over a low heat. 
Method 2 of 3: Melting Coconut Oil. 1. Melt solid coconut oil before measuring it out. If you plan on using coconut oil as a substitute for another type of oil, it is generally best to melt it into a liquid form to ensure that you get an equal and accurate measurement. Melting the oil also helps it to distribute more evenly into the mix of ingredients. 