Submit. Seedless vascular plants are simple plants with vascular structures that transport water and nutrients. They do not make seeds, but reproduce by windblown spores. The plants in the four divisions of seedless vascular plants are used for landscaping, medicines and household items.
Their vascular vessels used to transport food and water set them apart from other types of plants. Due to the large number of plants in this group they are often organized by how they reproduce, including creating spores, seeds within cones, and seeds within flowers or fruits.
Xylem tissue carries water and nutrients from the roots to the leaves. Phloem tissue carries sugar from the leaves to other cells of the plants. Non vascular plants are plants that lack tissues that transport water, nutrients, and sugar. Some example of non vascular plants are mosses, liverworts, and hornworts.
Angiosperms are vascular plants that create their seeds inside fruits or flowers and are often referred to simply as flowering plants. Some common examples of angiosperms include sunflowers, dogwood trees, elm trees, lilies, and maple trees.
1 Vascular plants have vascular tissues, which circulate resources through the plant. 2  This feature allows vascular plants to grow to a larger size than non-vascular plants, which lack these specialized conducting tissues and are therefore restricted to relatively small sizes.
Vascular plants, such as trees and flowering plants most people think about, have vascular vessels to transport water and food throughout the plant. Within vascular plants is the phloem, the vessel that transports food, and the xylem, which transports water.
Instead of roots, nonvascular plants have rhizoids, which are small hairs that insert into the substrate to keep the plant in place. Vascular plants have roots not only for support but also to soak up water that is farther away from the plant.
Vascular plants can be divided by their method of reproduction. Vascular plants that reproduce by the use of spores are characterized as ferns. This type of vascular plant is often referred to as a seedless vascular plant. The majority of vascular plants reproduce by creating seeds rather than spores and are classified as either gymnosperms or angiosperms.