The song sparrow (Melospiza melodia) is a medium-sized American sparrow. Among the native sparrows in North America, it is easily one of the most abundant, variable and adaptable species. Song sparrows' nests are parasitized by the brown-headed cowbird. The cowbirds' eggs closely resemble song sparrows' eggs, although the cowbirds' eggs are slightly larger. Song sparrows recognize cowbirds as a threat and attack the cowbirds when they are near the nest
Keith Kridler took this photo of House Sparrow eggs from about thirty different nests in TX. Notice the variation in coloring and speckling. (A bluebird egg is in the bottom row for comparison.). Notice that the eggs (and the babies that hatch would from them) are about the same size as the grubs. All three of these eggs were from the same nest. Kridler notices a lot of variation from the first to last egg in a clutch of HOSP eggs.
The house sparrow (Passer domesticus) is a bird of the sparrow family Passeridae, found in most parts of the world. A small bird, it has a typical length of 16 centimetres (6.3 inches) and a mass of 24–39.5 grams (0.85–1.39 ounces). The house sparrow's main predators are cats and birds of prey, but many other animals prey on them, including corvids, squirrels, and even humans—the house sparrow has been consumed in the past by people in many parts of the world, and it still is in parts of the Mediterranean.
Photo by Keith Kridler of TX. Notice that the eggs (and the babies that hatch would from them) are about the same size as the grubs. All three of these eggs were from the same nest. Kridler notices a lot of variation from the first to last egg in a clutch of HOSP eggs. The House Sparrow is a persistent enemy of many native birds, especially those which frequent the neighborhood of houses, or which nest in boxes, holes or other places prepared for them by their human friends
Females and young birds are coloured pale brown and grey, and males have brighter black, white, and brown markings. One of about 25 species in the genus Passer, the house sparrow is native to most of Europe, the Mediterranean region, and much of Asia. The house sparrow's main predators are cats and birds of prey, but many other animals prey on them, including corvids, squirrels, and even humans—the house sparrow has been consumed in the past by people in many parts of the world, and it still is in parts of the Mediterranean.
House Sparrow (HOSP) Photos. Also see Photos of other brown birds that look like HOSP, HOSP egg photos, more HOSP nest photos, HOSP management, attacks, history, numbers, behavior, nest and egg ID, HOSP euthanasia and more photos of HOSP nests in boxes, photo of HOSP in flight. All photos on this page by E.A. Zimmerman. Beak of this male House Sparrow (HOSP) is black, the female's (below) is more brown/buff colored. Photo taken during breeding season. To compare to other similar birds, see Other Brown Birds.
The few eggs produced by a sparrow may be misleading, however. In most of their range, sparrows produce more than one clutch of eggs per year. So even though a sparrow may have only three or four eggs in her nest, she may lay more than a dozen eggs in the course of the spring and summer.   Another possible consideration: Sparrows are often the victims of nest parasites.. Legally the only way you can move a sparrow nest is if it is a house sparrow nest. These are not native to the US and are considered an invasive species. If it is not a house … sparrow no you can't move it. The Migratory Bird Treaty Act makes it illegal.
House sparrow clutches usually 5 to 10 eggs in a clutch and egg’s color may white, bluish-white, grey, greenish-white, brown and light pink. Average size of the egg is 20 mm in length, 15 mm in width and 2.9 gram in weight. House sparrow eggs are in the shape of hen’s eggs. 
House Sparrow Eggs. 1  DESCRIPTIONS of cavity-nester nests and eggs + Clues on Nests | Eggs. 2  PHOTO ALBUM with pictures of cavity nesting birds, nests and eggs. 3  TABLE showing relative sizes of eggs, and egg photos side by side. 4  Preferred HABITAT, by species. 5  Downloadable 2 page guide (PDF) to common nests found in CT. Notice that the eggs (and the babies that hatch would from them) are about the same size as the grubs. All three of these eggs were from the same nest. Kridler notices a lot of variation from the first to last egg in a clutch of HOSP eggs.