By purchasing a notebook – ostensibly for work use – via salary sacrifice buyers would not pay tax on that part of their income a saving of up to 45% for workers in the top tax bracket. Any Australian employee could buy a laptop out of their pre-tax income mening that instead of the tax money going to the government it could instead be spent on the laptop. For people on a 48% tax rate it meant the laptop was effectively half price.
The ATO is virtually saying you can use your laptop 49% of the time for private use, and still claim a 100% tax deduction via salary sacrifice. For example, most people choose not to salary sacrifice. On top of that, the employee doesn’t have to pay GST on the notebook, saving another 10%. This essentially means that employees in the top tax bracket can get a laptop for half price. To take advantage of the salary sacrifice you need to make sure your device fits the ATO’s definition of a Portable Electronic Device.
I'm relatively new to Australia, and in particular to the tax system. It appears from my limited understanding that once per year you can sacrifice salary for a laptop, with no FBT payable. This appears to mean I could buy a laptop with my pre-tax salary (so, assuming I'm on 30% tax rate, that is like a 30% discount).
With a salary sacrifice scheme, a piece of work equipment such as a laptop is paid for out of your pre-tax income. That effectively offers a discount equivalent to your top marginal tax rate (and you didn’t have to pay GST either). In the 2008 budget, the rules applying to salary sacrifice for laptops were tightened. The first major change was that people who had purchased a laptop via salary sacrifice could not then also claim depreciation on that machine in subsequent years.
This means you are left with a lower amount of taxable income. For example, say you earned $50,000 a year and you wanted to buy a new computer for work, worth $2,000. With salary sacrifice, the $2,000 would be taken out before you receive your income. So you would end up with a $48,000 taxable income figure, and the computer. Therefore you don't have to pay the income tax rate on that $2,000. If it was done without using salary sacrifice, you'd receive your $50,000 usual income, pay tax on that $50,000, then buy your computer. Basically, using the above example, if you use salary sacrifice, you will pay tax on $48,000 income. If you don't use salaray sacrifice, you will pay tax on the whole $50,000.
Firstly lets look at the salary sacrifice calculations that are applicable for purchasing a laptop. For this example we'll use $2200 as the purchase price for the simple reason that its a round number so its easy to work with. The net effect on your salary is $1260 so thats how much of your net salary after tax you will lose after purchasing the laptop. I.e. if you are earning $8000/month, your normal take home pay would be $5920. If you do the salary sacrifice, your net tax home pay for that month would be $5920-$1260=$4660. Compare it to $5920-$2200=$3720 and you'll see that you save about $940 on the purchase price of a $2200 laptop
On top of that the employee didn’t have to pay GST on the notebook saving another 10%. And then the laptop’s value could be depreciated over three years with the amount of depreciation each year used as a tax deduction against personal income. Any Australian employee could buy a laptop out of their pre-tax income mening that instead of the tax money going to the government it could instead be spent on the laptop. For people on a 48% tax rate it meant the laptop was effectively half price.
Salary sacrifice is where an employee purchases a laptop with pre-tax income, therefore not paying tax on that part of their income. For those employees in the top tax brackets, that means a saving of up to 40% on the cost of the laptop. On top of that, the employee doesn’t have to pay GST on the notebook, saving another 10%. This essentially means that employees in the top tax bracket can get a laptop for half price. To take advantage of the salary sacrifice you need to make sure your device fits the ATO’s definition of a Portable Electronic Device.
So, like any good thing with the government lately, it came to an end. You can now still salary sacrifice one laptop per year, but you will no longer be able to double dip and claim it as a tax deduction as well. Since the axing of the double dip rule, you don’t really hear as much about the benefits of salary sacrificing a laptop. On top of that, the employee doesn’t have to pay GST on the notebook, saving another 10%. This essentially means that employees in the top tax bracket can get a laptop for half price. To take advantage of the salary sacrifice you need to make sure your device fits the ATO’s definition of a Portable Electronic Device.