Selecting a Whisker Pole. By Tom Burden. Whisker poles let you “pole out” your jib or genoa to weather, on the opposite side from the main, when broad reaching or running downwind. Telescoping whisker poles let you use one pole with furling headsails or multiple sized jibs and genoas—one size fits all. Your pole should usually be adjusted so it is 100% of the length of the headsail being flown, measured from tack to clew.
Do's and Don'ts • Do use a whisker pole to control the headsail in downwind sailing conditions. • Do make sure all sheets are slack before setting, telescoping or taking down a pole. • Do keep the pole level. • Do keep the ends clean and dry. Whisker poles usually do not need a downhaul. If, on your boat, you experience a lot of upward lift on the whisker pole, try moving your sheet leads farther forward. This will cause the sheet to go up at a higher angle and help hold the pole down. If the pole still wants to sky, then check the inboard end height.
Whisker poles should be 100% of the foot of whichever headsail is being flown. Measure from the tack to the clew and the whisker pole should be this length. You need to have some overlap in the pole. Poles telescoped to their maximum length are at their weakest, strength-wise. Diameter is a major function of strength. A 2-1/2 diameter tube is as much as 70% stronger than a 2 diameter tube. The Forespar® catalog and Whisker Pole brochure have a sizing chart based on 36 years of empirical data. Labels on the whisker poles themselves also note the maximum size boat for each pole. This is what we strongly suggest you use in selecting the proper sized pole for your boat.
A whisker pole is a form of spar that is used to help hold the clew portion of the jib when the vessel is sailing off the wind current. These poles belong to a part of basic sailboat and yacht configuration that is known as a spar. The whisker pole is perhaps the lightest of all the different types of spars that are in use as part of standard equipment on a sailing vessel. Whisker poles themselves are also constructed using hardwood that has been sealed against moisture and humidity.
A whisker pole allows boats to sail deeper angles with the genoa without the genoa getting caught behind the main sail. This is advantageous not only to the racing sailor sailing downwind but also for cruising sailors looking for and easier and more comfortable ride off the wind. These carbon fiber whisker poles are the perfect solution for the large cruising or racing boat that is looking for excellent downwind performance in addition to weight savings. We at Mauri Pro Sailing carry a variety of Whisker Poles from the trusted brands of Forespar, Forte and Selden.
About Forespar Whisker Poles Forespar makes aluminum whisker poles, carbon whisker poles and whisker poles that are a combination of both. All full size Forespar Whisker poles use Line Control, a proven concept in telescoping whisker pole design. These carbon fiber whisker poles are the perfect solution for the large cruising or racing boat that is looking for excellent downwind performance in addition to weight savings. We at Mauri Pro Sailing carry a variety of Whisker Poles from the trusted brands of Forespar, Forte and Selden.
Whisker poles are used to wing out the jib when sailing downwind. Sailors who have experienced downwind sailing without one can appreciate the value of being able to stabilize the jib, enabling the sail to work more efficiently. Forespar* manufactures the finest and most complete line of Whisker Poles in the world. I make offshore passages for a living and I count on my Forespar* whisker pole. It's an aluminum and carbon, telescoping model that gives me great flexibility when polling out my head sail. The pole is robust, well engineered and easy to set.
I can't imagine sailing downwind without my whisker pole. I make offshore passages for a living and I count on my Forespar* whisker pole. It's an aluminum and carbon, telescoping model that gives me great flexibility when polling out my head sail. The pole is robust, well engineered and easy to set.
Whisker poles are used for non-spinnaker class racing and short-handed cruising, or whenever downwind performance is desired without the use of conventional spinnakers. A properly sized and deployed whisker pole will allow the headsail to add considerable power and speed to downwind sailing. The Forespar® catalog and Whisker Pole brochure have a sizing chart based on 36 years of empirical data. Labels on the whisker poles themselves also note the maximum size boat for each pole. This is what we strongly suggest you use in selecting the proper sized pole for your boat.
Whisker Pole 368. Andrew Burton. No matter whether the journey is a trade-wind romp across a thousand miles of ocean or a daysail up the bay, a cruising boat that's not equipped with a whisker pole loses the ability to sail efficiently when the destination is dead downwind.