The Eggs. 1  Before incubation guinea fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. 2  When storing guinea fowl eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 18-20 degrees Celsius or 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Make sure the stored guinea fowl eggs are turned daily before they are incubated. The Incubator. 1  Before incubating the guinea fowl eggs make sure that the incubator is thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. 2  Place the incubator in a room with a constant temperature. 3  The incubator should be placed on a flat surface. 4  Make sure that the incubator is placed away from drafts.
Hatching. 1  When the guinea fowl eggs start to pip allow 24 hours for the hatch to complete. 2  Most guinea fowl eggs will hatch within the incubation period, but sometimes weaker guinea fowl chicks (keets) may hatch a day or two later. 3  Only remove the keets when they are dry. The Incubator. 1  Before incubating the guinea fowl eggs make sure that the incubator is thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. 2  Place the incubator in a room with a constant temperature. 3  The incubator should be placed on a flat surface. 4  Make sure that the incubator is placed away from drafts.
Mark the eggs on one side with an X and on the other with an O so you can visually keep track of the eggs turning. Place the eggs in the incubator with their large ends elevated slightly. You must turn the eggs four to six times per day for the first 25 days of hatching. The humidity should read 58 to 60 percent on your hygrometer or 84 to 86 degrees Fahrenheit on a wet-bulb thermometer. Collect the guinea fowl eggs. You can collect eggs up to seven days before placng them in the incubator. Keep them at room temperature during this time at about 70 to 75 degrees. Use a dry, soft cloth to wipe away any dirt or droppings. Don't use water or cleaning fluid of any kind, as you'll wipe away the egg's protective coat
Set the guineafowl eggs in the incubator and incubate for 28 days. Turn the eggs repeatedly while incubating, up until three days right before the eggs are set to hatch (e.g. day 23-24). Turn the eggs by hand, or use an automatic egg turner in your incubator. If incubating and hatching guinea eggs and turning by hand, turn the eggs three or five times a day. Raising keets: Feed baby guineas chick starter as well as cracked grain. Feed them by hand to get them used to eating out of your hand and make them tame.
The correct humidity for hatching Guinea Fowl eggs is 65% until day 25 and then rising it to 80% until day 28. You can raise humidity by adding water in the water troughs at the bottom of the incubator. You need to be sure that the water troughs are filled with water at all times. Keep ventilation holes open. Guinea Eggs. Guinea Fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days, but, when storing guinea fowl eggs to incubate, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit.We store our eggs on an automatic egg turner in our basement until we are ready to put them in the incubator.
1 An automatic egg turner is placed in the incubator and will turn the eggs every 4 hours. 2  The final day of guinea fowl rotation is day 25 when the eggs no longer need to be turned. 3  When egg turning stops, the automatic egg timer can be removed. The Incubator. 1  Before incubating the guinea fowl eggs make sure that the incubator is thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. 2  Place the incubator in a room with a constant temperature. 3  The incubator should be placed on a flat surface. 4  Make sure that the incubator is placed away from drafts.
Guinea Fowl Hatching Tips. Place eggs in incubator with the small end facing down. The incubation period for a guinea fowl egg to hatch is 28 days. The length of the incubation period can vary between 26 and 30 days, if the temperature or humidity is off a bit in the incubator. Guinea Eggs. Guinea Fowl eggs can be stored for up to 7 days, but, when storing guinea fowl eggs to incubate, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 64.5-68 degrees Fahrenheit.We store our eggs on an automatic egg turner in our basement until we are ready to put them in the incubator.
1 Even though guinea fowl and chickens have similar hatching requirements, do not incubate eggs of each species together. 2  Chickens hatch in 21 days; guinea fowl take 28 days. 3  The humidity and ventilation changes needed for your chickens to hatch can cause mortality for the unhatched guinea fowl eggs. The humidity should read 58 to 60 percent on your hygrometer or 84 to 86 degrees Fahrenheit on a wet-bulb thermometer. Collect the guinea fowl eggs. You can collect eggs up to seven days before placng them in the incubator. Keep them at room temperature during this time at about 70 to 75 degrees. Use a dry, soft cloth to wipe away any dirt or droppings. Don't use water or cleaning fluid of any kind, as you'll wipe away the egg's protective coating