Painful, sore, red gums can be a symptom of gingivitis (inflammation of the gums) or, more likely, periodontitis (inflammation of the attachment fibers of the teeth and supporting bone), which can arise due to a number of different causes.
Swollen gums, which may be sore and more susceptible to bleeding, are common during pregnancy. This inflammation of the gums is called gingivitis. Pregnancy gingivitis is caused by the hormonal changes that increase the blood flow to the gum tissue and cause your gums to be more sensitive, irritable, and swollen.
Gum swelling results from excess fluid (edema) in the soft tissues of the gums and may be accompanied by redness, pain, sores, ulcers and bleeding. Poor oral hygiene, resulting in inflammation or infection, is the most common cause of swollen gums.
Infection. Infections caused by fungi and viruses can potentially cause swollen gums. If you have herpes, it could lead to a condition called acute herpetic gingivostomatitis, which causes swollen gums. Thrush, which is the result of an overgrowth of naturally occurring yeast in the mouth, can also cause gum swelling.
Gingivitis. Gingivitis is the most common cause of swollen gums. It is a gum disease that causes your gums to become irritated and swollen. Many people have gingivitis and don’t know it because the symptoms can be quite mild.
Individuals with swollen gums may be suffering from gum disease, irritation from food or drink, tooth decay, insufficient nutrition, or other oral issues. Several solutions for swollen gums are listed below, but remember that the only way to understand exactly what is causing the swelling is visiting your dentist.
The bacteria cause inflammation of the gums that is called “gingivitis.” In gingivitis, the gums become red, swollen and can bleed easily. Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease that can usually be reversed with daily brushing and flossing, and regular cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist.
These bacteria may cause your gums to become inflamed, which results in red, swollen, or bleeding gums. For many people with gingivitis, this inflammation is not painful. If you catch gingivitis early, it can be reversed and healed with proper oral hygiene.
In many instances, swollen and bleeding gums are a sign of gum disease. However, there are a number of other things that could be causing your gum problems. Whatever the cause of sore, painful gums, there are steps you can take to minimize gum damage and discomfort.