Step 2: After baking. About 2 minutes before your cake is ready to come out the oven, place a kitchen towel in the sink. Pour steaming water until its completely soaked. As soon as your cake is out of the oven place it on top of the towel and let it sit for 10 minutes. Needless to say, let it be facing pan side down. Rule 3: Unmolding. Now you’re ready to unmold the cake: Keep a cooling rack or a plate of an appropriate size ready and invert the hot cake onto it. Use a pastry brush or spray or a mister and make sure every nook and corner has been well greased. Two areas you need to focus on are the bottom of the pan which has the curves or design and where the tube meets the bottom. This is the Achilles Heel of bundt cakes and the place where it stuck most often.
If that doesn’t work, try this method on your frozen cake. Take a small butter knife or offset spatula and run it around the cake rim to loosen it from the sides of the pan. Working your way around the whole cake, insert two forks on the opposite ends of the pan and use the forks as levers, squeezing and nudging the cake to loosen it. Flip the pan over the board and the cake should come out. Tip: If neither of these methods work, just frost the cake and serve it directly from the pan like a sheet cake. Tip: Never deal with a baked-in cake again. Watch this video to learn how to prepare cake pans properly.
How to Remove a Cake Roll from the Pan. To get a cake roll out of the pan, loosen the cake from the edges of the pan with a knife and turn out the cake onto a prepared kitchen towel, as directed. Cool cake as directed in the recipe. Other cake recipes specify setting the pans on a cooling rack and cooling the cake in the pans for a short time (often 10 minutes) before removing the cake. Set a kitchen timer for this step -- if you cool the cake too long in the pan it might be difficult to remove.
Once the cake is done, remove it from the oven, and place it on a wire rack. Allow it to cool for around ten minutes, but no longer, as the cake will then start to stick to the pan. 1  Next, place your cake plate (generally the plate on which you wish to serve the cake) on top of the tube pan, with the serving side down. 2. Take the cut-out, and place it in the bottom of your tube pan, taking care to fit it in snugly. 1  Spray the pan with Crisco, or any other vegetable oil, or employ your preferred method to grease the pan. 2  Once this is done, proceed to flour the tube pan.
If your bundt cake is stuck in the pan, or you're second-guessing if you greased and floured the pan well enough, try steaming the cake out! Boil a teakettle of water, place a clean kitchen towel in your sink, and very carefully pour some of the hot water over the towel (the towel should be damp but not dripping). Ever fill your favorite intricately-designed bundt pan with homemade cake batter and wait the 50-60 minutes for it to bake, only to have the cake stick to the pan? I know I have.
A Bundt cake is simply the name used for a dessert cake baked in a Bundt pan or a round baking pan with a tube in the middle with fluted, decorated sides. It is typically made from a shortened cake. 
Remove the cake from the freezer and unwrap it. Take a small butter knife or offset spatula and run it around the edges of the cake to loosen it from the sides of the pan. Flip the pan over and tap an edge onto a board while holding the pan at a 45-degree angle to pop the entire cake out. Flip the pan over the board and the cake should come out. Tip: If neither of these methods work, just frost the cake and serve it directly from the pan like a sheet cake. Tip: Never deal with a baked-in cake again. Watch this video to learn how to prepare cake pans properly.
1 Fill the pan with batter, and bake. 2  Allow the cake to cool for 15 minutes on a wire rack before attempting to unmold. 3  To unmold, place a large plate on top of the bundt pan, and invert the pan in one fluid motion, holding the plate tight to the pan. 4  Glaze the cake, dust it with powdered sugar, or leave it plain. 5  Enjoy! 1 Allow the cake to cool for 15 minutes on a wire rack before attempting to unmold. 2  To unmold, place a large plate on top of the bundt pan, and invert the pan in one fluid motion, holding the plate tight to the pan. 3  Glaze the cake, dust it with powdered sugar, or leave it plain. 4