1 Agar agar is also used as a food stabilisers in the food products like canned meat and pudding. 2  Carrageenan is like agar agar that is also obtained from red algae. 3  It is used in shampoos. 4  Then there is gelatin, another food stabiliser. 5  Pectin or calcium chloride are used as food stabilisers in dairy products. Food stabilisers are confused with preservatives. But there is a difference between the two. Stabilisers is used to retain the physical characteristics of the food whereas as preservatives prevent the spoilage of the food. Food stabilisers increases the stability and thickness of the food by binding its large molecule
Red Algae. Red algae are almost exclusively marine and include many edible and economically important species, including nori and laver. Red algae are also the source of carageenan and agar, which are used as food thickeners and stabilizers. Red algae are mostly large, complex seaweeds. There are four thousand to six thousand species. Algae may be unicellular, colonial, or multicellular. Some algae, like the diatoms, are microscopically small. Other algae, like kelp, are as big as trees. Some algae, the phytoplankton, drift in the water. Other algae, the epiphitic or benthic algae, grow attached to rocks, docks, plants, and other solid objects.
Today Japan is the principal user of edible algae, and the Japanese have developed methods for culturing and harvesting leafy algae. Large-scale farming practices are used to grow the red alga Porphyra, which is commonly called nori. Porphyra spores are sprinkled on oyster shells, which are placed into shallow tanks. 
Uses of Algae. Algae, the major food of fish (and thus indirectly of many other animals), are a keystone in the aquatic food chain of life; they are the primary producers of the food that provides the energy to power the whole system. They are also important to aquatic life in their capacity to supply oxygen through photosynthesis. Kelp are also much used as fertilizer, and kelp ash is used industrially for its potassium and sodium salts. Other useful algae products are agar and carrageen, which is used as a stabilizer in foods, cosmetics, and paints.
1 Alginic acid is a popular food stabiliser that is derived from brown algae is used in ice-cream and syrups that we use on desserts. 2  Agar agar is also used as a food stabilisers in the food products like canned meat and pudding. Food stabilisers are confused with preservatives. But there is a difference between the two. Stabilisers is used to retain the physical characteristics of the food whereas as preservatives prevent the spoilage of the food. Food stabilisers increases the stability and thickness of the food by binding its large molecules
Algae is a green ocean plant used as a food and an additive. A variety of modern products contain algae. Chances are you eat algae every day without realizing it. Algae is used to thicken foods and boost healthy bacteria. It is also added to many medicines and toothpaste. 
The world market of products from macro-algae has been estimated to have a size of some US$ 5.5 - 6 billion per year (McHugh 2003; Pulz and Gross 2004). 1  US$ 5 billion is generated by the food industry, of which US$ 1 billion is from nori, a high-value product worth US$ 16,000 / T. The market size of products from micro-algae was estimated by Pulz and Gross (2004) to have a retail value of US$ 5 6.5 billion. 1  US$ 1.25 - 2.5 billion were generated by the health food sector. 2  US$ 1.5 billion from the production of docosahexanoic acid (DHA) and. 3  US$ 700 million from aquaculture.
Seaweeds, e.g., the kelps (kombu) and the red algae Porphyra (nori), have long been used as a source of food, especially in Asia. Both cultivated and naturally growing seaweeds have been harvested in the Pacific Basin for hundreds of years. Kelp are also much used as fertilizer, and kelp ash is used industrially for its potassium and sodium salts. Other useful algae products are agar and carrageen, which is used as a stabilizer in foods, cosmetics, and paints.
Carbohydrate: A compound consisting of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen found in plants and used as a food by humans and other animals. Photosynthesis: Process by which light energy is captured from the Sun by pigment molecules in plants and algae and converted to food. 