Playgroup is an informal session where mums, dads, grandparents, caregivers, children and babies meet together in a relaxed environment. Playgroups are set up and run by parents and caregivers, with children choosing from a range of activities set up to meet their varying needs. Activities at playgroup may include: 1  Music and singing. 2  Imaginative play. 3  Outdoor and free play.
Playgroup Australia is the national peak and administrative body for playgroups in Australia. Playgroup is an informal session where mums, dads, grand parents, caregivers, children and babies meet together in a relaxed environment. Playgroups are set up and run by parents and caregivers, with children choosing from a range of activities set up to meet their varying needs.
Playgroup is an informal session where parents, carers, babies and children aged 0 to school age come together in a relaxed and friendly environment. 1  have fun, 2  make new friends, and. 3  develop new skills through informal play. 4  an opportunity to meet other parents and carers, 1 not-for-profit, 2  are run by, and for the parents who attend. 3  usually held once a week for a two hour session, 4  held in a variety of venues such as church halls, community and neighbourhood centres, council halls, Scout or Guide halls, and in people's homes.
In a playgroup, parents and caregivers stay to interact with the other adults; and to play with the children. No child is too young for playgroup. All children from 0-5 years, including babies, love new experiences and benefit from developing sensory, social and communication skills through activities at playgroup. Playgroups are set up and run by parents and caregivers, with children choosing from a range of activities set up to meet their varying needs. Activities at playgroup may include: 1  Music and singing. 2  Imaginative play. 3  Outdoor and free play.
A playgroup or pre-school group is a registered childcare facility that offers sessional care-usually 2-3 hours-for children between the ages of 3-5 years, though they may take children from 2 years. 
There are three main styles of playgroups: 1  Mainstream playgroups are self-managed by the parents and carers who use them. 2  About 92 000 families a year go to about 8100 mainstream playgroups. 3  Supported playgroups have the help of a facilitator. Finding a local playgroup. To set up a new playgroup or contact an existing service, talk to your local Playgroup Association. There’s one in every state and territory in Australia. You can also find your nearest playgroup (or start a new playgroup) by calling the Playgroup Association’s toll free number: 1800 171 882.
Playgroups are: 1  not-for-profit, 2  are run by, and for the parents who attend. 3  usually held once a week for a two hour session, 4  held in a variety of venues such as church halls, community and neighbourhood centres, council halls, Scout or Guide halls, and in people's homes. 1
playgroup. n. 1. (Social Welfare) a regular meeting of small children arranged by their parents or a welfare agency to give them an opportunity of supervised creative play. 
There are three main styles of playgroups: 1  Mainstream playgroups are self-managed by the parents and carers who use them. 2  Supported playgroups have the help of a facilitator. 3  Intensive support playgroups are for families who have complex needs and need more support. Finding a local playgroup. To set up a new playgroup or contact an existing service, talk to your local Playgroup Association. There’s one in every state and territory in Australia. You can also find your nearest playgroup (or start a new playgroup) by calling the Playgroup Association’s toll free number: 1800 171 882.
A pre-school playgroup, or in everyday usage just a playgroup, is an organised group providing care and socialisation for children under five. The term is widely used in the United Kingdom. Playgroups are less formal than the pre-school education of nursery schools. Playgroup is an informal session where mums, dads, grand parents, caregivers, children and babies meet together in a relaxed environment. Playgroups are set up and run by parents and caregivers, with children choosing from a range of activities set up to meet their varying needs.