On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 
Fall is a normal time of year for chickens to stop laying eggs as the sunlight decreases and they molt, but 7 months is a long time. She's not that old. Another common reason is dietary, though it sounds as if your other chicken is laying. When depends on the chicken. Most of ours went “off lay” as the days grew shorter. They laid fewer and fewer eggs until one day they simply stopped. One or two continued to lay sporadically throughout the cold, dark days of winter, although most of those eggs froze and cracked before we got out to collect them.
Your chickens are probably molting (loosing their old feathers and growing new) while in their molt all the energy that normally goes into egg production goes into new feathers. They will start laying within 2-4 weeks, depending on the breed and age of the chicken. When depends on the chicken. Most of ours went “off lay” as the days grew shorter. They laid fewer and fewer eggs until one day they simply stopped. One or two continued to lay sporadically throughout the cold, dark days of winter, although most of those eggs froze and cracked before we got out to collect them.
· just now. Report Abuse. Most chicken breeds start laying small eggs around 6-7 months of age. They will continue to lay well for about 2 years, then they start to taper off,...might lay 3 eggs a week then 2. Most farm people do not keep laying hens beyond 2-3 years..they go into the pot. But if you plan on these being pets...well, as long as you're willing to keep feeding them..... Report Abuse. Most breeds start laying about 20-22 weeks and will lay every day or every other day for about 3 years. They will lay after that but not as much. If people arekeeping them for eggs they usually kill them and use them for stewing hens afte
Introduction. The age at which your hens will begin to lay depends on their breed type. Hybrids are the earliest birds to start laying, starting about 1 month earlier than non-hybrids. Non-hybrids, which include our rare and heritage breeds, typically begin laying about one month later than hybrids. Most of the egg laying hybrids start laying at 4 to 5 months of age.
A reduction in daylight hours causes hens to stop laying. Chickens need 14-16 hours of daylight per day in order to lay and over the winter months they will usually stop laying. 
Female chickens (hens) generally start laying eggs at around 20-24 weeks of age. Some breeds take longer. They don't need a rooster to lay eggs and if you are lucky they will … lay an egg per day. Again this depends on the breed, with some chickens laying an egg every few days. Do chickens ever stop laying eggs? Yes, on average and depending on the breed a hens egg production starts to slow down by age 2 and often is non existent by age 3. There are always some exceptions to this but … generally you can expect your hens to be retired at about 3 years old.
Learn what to do when your chickens stop laying eggs. The final chapter in the oval of life. (This is the sixth and final post in our Raising Chickens 101 beginner series .). Sooner or later, your chickens will stop laying eggs. When depends on the chicken. Most of ours went “off lay” as the days grew shorter. They laid fewer and fewer eggs until one day they simply stopped. One or two continued to lay sporadically throughout the cold, dark days of winter, although most of those eggs froze and cracked before we got out to collect them.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 