Champagne should be stored by the bottle being on its side in a cool dark place such as a cellar. Do not ever store champagne in the freezer as within a couple of hours you would have reuined the sparkle. Hope This Answers your Question. 
Storing a bottle of wine upright keeps the cork high and dry, away from the wine. It can dry out, and when it dries, it shrinks, leaving room for air to enter the bottle and let oxygen react with the wine. When you store a bottle of wine on its side, the liquid keeps the cork moist. The cork keeps its size (and can even expand if needed, for instance, if a warm environment causes the glass bottle to expand), and so maintains a tight seal against the outside air. Wrong. Storing wine in the vertical position, especially if you’re trying to age it, is a big mistake that can ruin your wine. Here’s why: your wine shares a fickle friendship with oxygen. Oxygen reacts with the chemicals in your wine to change its flavor compounds. In other words, without oxygen, wine could not age.
White wine and champagne should be stored in a refrigerator on its side. Red wine should be stored in a room that's just below room temperature, also on its side. Most people store red wine in their basement or cellar because that's usually the coolest place in the house. If it's a cork cork, then store it on its side to keep the cork wet. If you let a cork cork dry out, it will shrink and allow oxygen into the bottle. When that happens, your best bet is simply to dump it down the drain. You no longer have wine or champers.... you have vinegar.... and it's usually NASTY.
Sure, you’ve heard that wine should always be stored on its side. But grocery stores and even many wine shops display their bottles upright. Wrong. Storing wine in the vertical position, especially if you’re trying to age it, is a big mistake that can ruin your wine. Here’s why: your wine shares a fickle friendship with oxygen. Oxygen reacts with the chemicals in your wine to change its flavor compounds. In other words, without oxygen, wine could not age.
Report Abuse. Wine must be stored on its side to keep the cork moist and tight against the bottle neck. If a bottle is stored upright, the cork will eventually dry out and shrink, exposing the wine to the dangers of oxidation and vinegaring. Bubbles will escape from Sparkling wines causing them to 'go flat' as well. Report Abuse. If air gets to the wine, the wine can spoil. If the cork dries out, air will get in. Storing the bottle on its side will keep the cork wet and will help keep it from drying out. . Source(s): I am a wino. .
Best Answer: More important is the conditions you store it in; should be cool and dark and free from vibration. Ideally it should be stored on its side, but it is fine stored upright for up to five years -- the cork won't dry out and shrink in that time. Source(s): see my profile. Pontac · 9 years ago. 
If a bottle of wine—be it still or sparkling—has a cork in it, it should be stored on its side. You want the liquid inside to stay in contact with the cork so that it doesn't dry out, become crumbly, and encourage premature aging. I've never heard of any exceptions for sparklers. Dear Dr. Vinny, A recent visitor to Champagne claims the proper way to store sparkling wine is upright, not on its side. I would like to know the proper way to store both vintage Champagne for cellaring purposes as well as short-term storage for NV. Thanks for your help. —Caroline, New York. Dear Caroline,