Attawapiskat is located in northern Ontario (on James Bay, south end of Hudson Bay). Attawapiskat is near sea level. Time Zone: Attawapiskat lies in the Eastern Time Zone (EST/EDT) and observes daylight saving time. 
It has a land area of 1.32 km and is located along the Attawapiskat River, 5 km inland from the James Bay coastline. It’s an isolated community, which has Timmins as the nearest urban center located approximately 500 km south. It is situated approximately 160 km north of Moosonee. Catholic missionaries founded the village of Attawapiskat in 1893 when, due to the number of people hunting in the area, the missionaries decided to build a chapel on the shore of the Attawapiskat River. Since about 1850 the missionaries had visited the area. Form of Government The Attawapiskat First Nation governs the community of Attawapiskat. The First Nation consists of a chief, deputy chief and 10 Councillors. The First Nation provides services such as health, education, development, and recreation.
[A]ncestors of today’s Attawapiskat band occupied all the territory from the Kapiskau River in the south, to Hudson Bay (Cape Henrietta Maria) in the north, and from Akimiski Island in the east to Lake Mississa (150 miles inland) to the west. Although it is acknowledged that the mine is on Attawapiskat traditional land, the royalties from Victor Mine, flow to the Province of Ontario, not Attawapiskat First Nation. They have 500 full-time employees with 100 from
Attawapiskat First Nation. The community of Attawapiskat is located 52 degrees north and 82 degrees west. It has a land area of 1.32 km and is located along the Attawapiskat River, 5 kilometers inland from the James Bay coastline. It’s an isolated community, which has Timmins as the nearest urban center located approximately 500 km south. It is situated approximately 160 km north of Moosonee. 
Attawapiskat, is a coastal community in the western Hudson Bay Lowland, a vast wetland located between the Canadian Shield and James Bay and Hudson Bay. The town or hamlet of Attawapiskat now covers 1.32 km 2 of land and is located along the Attawapiskat River, 5 km inland from the James Bay coastline. Although it is acknowledged that the mine is on Attawapiskat traditional land, the royalties from Victor Mine, flow to the Province of Ontario, not Attawapiskat First Nation. They have 500 full-time employees with 100 from
It is located in the Northern Ontario Ring of Fire, in the James Bay Lowlands 90 kilometres (56 mi) west of Attawapiskat in the remote northern part of the province. In June 2005, the Attawapiskat First Nation voted in favour (85.5%) of ratifying the Impact Benefit Agreement (IBA). The area is composed of 18 kimberlite pipes of the Attawapiskat kimberlite field, 16 of which are diamondiferous, the Victor Mine sits on top of the Victor pipe and mines from Victor Main and Victor Southwest which have appeared close enough to the surface to be used in an open-pit mine.
The Attawapiskat First Nation is located approximately 260 km north of Moosonee, near the mouth of the Attawapiskat River along the western coast of James Bay. It has an on reserve population of about 1,784 as of March, 2012, from the website of Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada. Attawapiskat’s on reserve secondary school, built by the First Nation, means a great deal to the Community. In the past, students leaving home to attend school created many disruptions in the Community, especially for those students who were separated from their families and homes for extended periods of time.
Our Story. Attawapiskat First Nation is located inland from James Bay on the Attawapiskat River in the Canadian Province of Ontario. The First Nation has a membership of 2,700. About 1,800 live on reserve. 
The Attawapiskat River carved out several clusters of spectacular high limestone islands less than 100 kilometres (62 mi) from its mouth that are unique to the region. These formations (and therefore the river and community) are called chat-a-wa-pis-shkag in Swampy Cree (Omushkegowuk) . Although it is acknowledged that the mine is on Attawapiskat traditional land, the royalties from Victor Mine, flow to the Province of Ontario, not Attawapiskat First Nation. They have 500 full-time employees with 100 from
Attawapiskat was entered into official treaty with Canada and the Province of Ontario relatively late, in 1930 (Treaty 9 adhesion), and the majority of the First Nation members moved to the community as late as the mid-1960s. Although it is acknowledged that the mine is on Attawapiskat traditional land, the royalties from Victor Mine, flow to the Province of Ontario, not Attawapiskat First Nation. They have 500 full-time employees with 100 from