QBee. QBee, a unique new solution that combines entertainment and home control functionalities in a simple and fun manner was launched on the first day of CES 2015. ... 
Description. Askey Computer Corporation was established in Taipei, Taiwan in 1989. The company is now engaged in the design, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and after sales services of broadband and wireless products for ODM/OEM customers worldwide.
Wireless Networking Products. Everybody loves the uncomplicated access to the Internet they can get from a wireless network. Askey develops and manufactures a full range of Wireless Networking products that make great, easy to use solutions for home networking. Askey also understands the importance of design of such devices that are often displayed in the home
Below is a list of our most popular Askey Computer driver downloads. To download, select the exact Model Name/Number of your device, then click the Download button. If you can not find the exact driver for your Askey Computer device, you can request the driver and we will find it for you. Also, you can visit and discuss drivers on our free forum. DriverGuide maintains an archive of Askey Computer drivers available for free Download. Use our customized search engine to search for Askey Computer drivers or search our entire driver archive to find the exact driver that fits your needs.
Askey Computer Corporation is a subsidiar... Askey Computer Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, designs, manufactures, and sells modems, peripheral equipment, transportable equipment, and related spare parts in Taiwan and internationally. Our data partners will research the update request and update the information on this page if necessary. Research and follow-up could take several weeks. If you have questions, you can contact them at bwwebmaster@businessweek.com.
This page contains the list of Askey drivers available for free download. This list is updated weekly, so you can always download a new driver or update driver to the latest version here. We offer Askey drivers for Windows 8 32 bit / 64 bit, Windows 7 32 bit / 64 bit, Windows XP, Mac OS and Linux. It is very easy to download Askey driver. Just browse this list with Askey models to find your device and click «Download» driver to see the page with all official Askey drivers for your device. All driver downloads on Nodevice are free and unlimited, so you can update, restore, repair or fix your Windows system in few minutes
ASKEY Computer Corporation specializes in network communications and the research and development of anarray of international companies.Today, it employs more than 10000 workers who help generate an annual revenue of over 1.2 billion USD. [ Details Information ]. 
Askey Computer Corporation was established in 1989 as a daughter company of the world-renowned computer tycoon ASUS computers. Askey Computer Corporation specializes in network communications and the research and development of an array of electronic communication products for a number of international companies. Today, it employs more than 10,000 workers who help generate an annual revenue of over 1.2 billion USD.Askey Computer Corporation's current headquarter is in Taipei, Taiwan. It owns and operates three highly-advanced processing plants located in Suzhou, China on its own factory park w ...
I am not so sure this is a MAC address belonging to a CISCO device. Accoring to IEEE http://standards.ieee.org/regauth/oui/index.shtml That starting mac address belongs to the company listed below, not Cisco. This company makes modems and WiFi devices. 00-90-96 (hex) ASKEY COMPUTER CORP. 009096 (base 16) ASKEY COMPUTER CORP. 2F, NO. 2, LANE 497 CHUNG-CHENG RD., HSIN-TIEN TAIPEI 23136 TAIWAN, REPUBLIC OF CHINA Just my opinion, hope it helps. 