Until 1989, a published work had to contain a valid copyright notice to receive protection under the copyright laws. But this requirement is no longer in force — works first published after March 1, 1989 need not include a copyright notice to gain protection under the law. 1 Works published after 1922, but before 1978 are protected for 95 years from the date of publication. 2  If the work was created, but not published, before 1978, the copyright lasts for the life of the author plus 70 years.
Copyright is a legal right created by the law of a country that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution. This is usually only for a limited time. The exclusive rights are not absolute but limited by limitations and exceptions to copyright law, including fair use. Copyright is a form of intellectual property, applicable to certain forms of creative work. Under US copyright law, legal protection attaches only to fixed representations in a tangible medium
In general, copyright is a form of legal protection given to content creators through the assignment of specific rights to works that qualify for protection. Copyright is a form of Intellectual Property, along with trademarks and patents in all countries, and other creations (such as trade secrets, sui generis database rights, rights of publicity and the like) that may vary from country to country.
Copy protection, also known as content protection, copy prevention and copy restriction, is any effort designed to prevent the reproduction of software, films, music, and other media, usually for copyright reasons. 
Exhaustive lists of works covered by copyright are usually not to be found in legislation. Nonetheless, broadly speaking, works commonly protected by copyright throughout the world include: 1  literary works such as novels, poems, plays, reference works, newspaper articles; 2  computer programs, databases; 3  films, musical compositions, and choreography; 
Obtaining copyright protection under US copyright law is a smart and necessary step for anyone serious about their work. Whether an author, developer, photographer, artist or musician, if you value your work you owe it to yourself to copyright that work. Copyright protection means that YOU decide who can use your work and for what purpose. Once you’ve established your copyright, no one else can use your work without your permission. Copyrighting your work gives you control over how your work is used and represented.
This protection is available to both published and unpublished works. The Copyright Act generally gives the owner of copyright the exclusive right to: 1  Reproduce the work; 2  Prepare other works based upon the work (derivative works); 3  Distribute copies of the work by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by lease; 4  Perform the work publicly; and. 5  Display the copyrighted work publicly.
Download article as a PDF. Copyright is a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States to the creators of original works including literary works, movies, musical works, sound recordings, paintings, photographs, software, live performances, and television or sound broadcasts. The Copyright Act generally gives the owner of copyright the exclusive right to: 1  Reproduce the work; 2  Prepare other works based upon the work (derivative works); 3  Distribute copies of the work by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by lease; 4  Perform the work publicly; and. 5  Display the copyrighted work publicly.