1 It is easier to grow phlox from cuttings/transplants than seeds. 2  Plant phlox in the spring and space the plants 1 to 2 feet apart. 3  If you are moving a plant from a pot, dig a hole about twice the size of the pot’s diameter and place the plant so that the top of the root ball is even with the soil’s surface.
1 Roots must be established before the ground freezes in the fall for your phlox transplants to survive the winter. 2  Transplant them three or four weeks before the ground freezes for best results.
Plant creeping phlox (Phlox subulata) and you can welcome spring with a carpetlike display of pink, purple or white blooms that lasts for two to three weeks and increases in size each year.
The best time for transplanting phlox has to do with bloom time and species. Phlox can refer to over 60 species and a range of cultivars, so you need to know which one is in your garden before you decide when to transplant. The common name creeping phlox may refer to three species: 1  Moss phlox (Phlox subulata).
Tip. 1  Transplant newly purchased phlox seedlings to the garden at any time after the danger of frost has passed in the spring, until three or four weeks before the first expected frost in the fall.
Dig a hole two times as large as the root ball of your transplant. If you're planting multiple phlox plants space tall growing phlox 8 inches apart and creeping phlox up to 3 feet part. Add a cup of compost or fresh garden soil to the hole and mix it to make an even consistency with the existing soil.
Position the phlox in the new hole and spread the roots out. Fill in around the roots with soil and firm it down with your hand to secure the plant and remove air pockets around the roots.
Learn how to transplant Phlox flowers with help from a certified horticulturist in this free video clip. Expert: Donna Emery. Contact: www.glovernursery.com. Bio: Donna Emery has been a certified horticulturist for 20 years, has a two year degree in landscape design, and is a Utah-certified nursery professional.