The average American household produces about 1,600 pounds (726 kg) of garbage per year. Personal garbage can be reduced significantly by recycling. The average American produces an estimated 29 pounds of garbage each week.
A 15-pound (7 kg) bin of clumping litter will last a single indoor cat about 4 - 5 weeks. If you can find non-clumping litter, and if you clean it, and turn it over completely every day (so as to break up the wet spots and slow the bacterial action), 7kg should last a single indoor cat about 6 to 8 weeks.
The average person litters 4.4 pounds a day. 29 pounds a week. And 1,600 pounds a year! That is enough to cover Texas 2.5 times.
2. $11.5 billion is spent every year to clean up litter. Half surprising and half expected, this much money could have been used in more pressing and important services like housing and health care. Most people do not really think about how much of their little actions can affect the entire nation’s well-being.
According to the Environmental Protection Agency, the average American produces about 4.4 pounds (2 kg) of garbage a day, or a total of 29 pounds (13 kg) per week and 1,600 pounds (726 kg) a year. This only takes into consideration the average household member and does not count industrial waste or commercial trash.
1. 9 billion tons of litter ends up in the ocean every year. This is more than the amount of trash generated every year which is only 250 million. Suffice to say that people tend to throw things randomly anywhere more often that they throw garbage in trash bins.
(7) How much does litter cost?  The total cost of litter and street sweeping maintenance for local governments in Victoria is over $78 million-or $14.23 for every person in Victoria. Of this:  Street sweeping costs local government more than $50 million.
5. 75% of people admitted that they littered in the past 5 years. Not surprising is the fact that people have done this for many years despite many clean-up activities and educational campaigns about proper disposal of litter.
Litter Clean-up Costs: Statewide-Beaches: $52.2 million per year: Clean-up costs vary depending on the amount of use, proximity to runoff sources, and terrain types. The City of Santa Monica spends $1.2 million for 3 miles of beachfront and Orange County spends about $350,000 for 6 miles of beachfront.