Symptoms of Lyme Disease (Borreliosis). Most owners never know that their dogs have been infected by Borrelia burgdorferi. In fact, only about 5% of infected dogs become noticeably ill. Dogs that do develop clinical Lyme disease usually show signs between 1 and 5 months after being bitten by an infected tick.
Cases of Lyme disease dog bacterial infections are caused by infected ticks that attach to a dog for at least 24 hours and as long as several days while feeding. The disease causes symptoms such as joint inflammation (polyarthritis). The bitten dog limb is the first to show symptoms such as as lameness or limping.
Lyme disease affects a variety of species, including dogs, cats, and people. Up to 95 percent of dogs infected with B. burgdorferi do not develop symptoms (people are much more likely to become ill with Lyme disease). There is no evidence that Lyme disease is spread by direct contact with infected animals.
Lyme disease is caused by a bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi and is spread by ticks. Ticks become infected with the bacteria by feeding on infected mice and other small animals. When an infected tick bites other animals, it can transmit the bacteria to these animals.
To prevent Lyme disease in dogs and cats, stop the ticks that transmit the disease. The tick that carries the Borrelia spirochete can be prevented or killed by a tick collar and topical flea and tick medications. Ticks that are killed within 48 hours of attaching on a pet cannot transmit Lyme disease.
Dogs that test positive, but show no symptoms, are not treated for the condition since most dogs remain asymptomatic. 95% of exposed dogs do not show any dog lyme disease symptoms. If a dog shows symptoms, the prescription medication Doxycycline is used for 1 month.
Most dogs with Lyme disease never show signs of illness. When symptoms do occur, they usually involve limping and lameness, which are caused by pain around the dog’s joints. These signs may wax and wane, but they often come back and, if left untreated, progressively worsen with time.
Lyme disease is a bacterial infection that can affect humans, dogs, cats and other mammals. Its primary carrier is the deer tick (Ixodes scapularis), which often feeds on rodents in its early stages. Later, the tick can attach to a dog or human and transmit the bacteria that cause Lyme disease.