The dianthus plant is also called Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus) and has a fragrance with cinnamon or clove notes. The plants are small and usually between 6 and 18 inches tall. Instructions on how to care for dianthus are very straightforward. Water the plants when dry and apply fertilizer every six to eight weeks. You may also work a slow-release fertilizer into the soil at planting, which will release you from the need to feed the plants.
Cultivation [edit]. Dianthus species have been extensively bred and hybridised to produce many thousands of cultivars for garden use and floristry, in all shades of white, pink, yellow and red, with a huge variety of flower shapes and markings. They are often divided into the following main groups:-. Dianthus species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including Cabbage Moth, Double-striped Pug, Large Yellow Underwing and The Lychnis.
Dianthus flowers have fragrant blooms, that are 1 to 1 1/2 diameter. Most varieties of Dianthus will grow 18 to 24. They look great in a flowerbed, or a rock garden. They can be planted singly, or in groups. Plant Propagation: Dianthus are grown from seed. They can also be propagated by cuttings. Dianthus seeds can be directly seeded into your flower garden, or started indoors for transplanting later. Dianthus prefers warm weather. If planting outdoors, sow them after the soil has begun to warm in the spring.
Cookies! Dianthus means divine flower There are over 300 species of Dianthus, as well as hundreds of beautiful hybrids Dianthus Plants produce richly fragrant flowers in the spring or summer, sometimes extending right up until the first frost! Growing Dianthus Plants from Seed. You can start Dianthus seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks before the. last frost is expected for spring planting and blooms during the first year. If you prefer, you can sow the seeds directly into a sunny location. in the garden in the spring or early in the summer. Plant your seeds 1/8 deep in light, well-drained soil.
Dianthus is a genus of about 300 species of flowering plants in the family Caryophyllaceae, native mainly to Europe and Asia, with a few species extending south to north Africa, and one species (D. repens) in arctic North America. Dianthus species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including Cabbage Moth, Double-striped Pug, Large Yellow Underwing and The Lychnis.
Most garden varieties of Dianthus plants grow from 10 to 20 inches tall, however some species can vary from 2 inches to 3 feet tall in height. Dianthus grow and bloom best in cooler climates. They should be grown in a spot where they will receive at least 4-5 hours of full sun each day. Growing Dianthus Plants from Seed. You can start Dianthus seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks before the. last frost is expected for spring planting and blooms during the first year. If you prefer, you can sow the seeds directly into a sunny location. in the garden in the spring or early in the summer. Plant your seeds 1/8 deep in light, well-drained soil
By Bonnie L. Grant. Dianthus flowers (Dianthus spp.) are also called “pinks.” They belong to a family of plants which includes carnations and are characterized by the spicy fragrance the blooms emit. Dianthus plants may be found as a hardy annual, biennial or perennial and most often used in borders or potted displays. Instructions on how to care for dianthus are very straightforward. Water the plants when dry and apply fertilizer every six to eight weeks. You may also work a slow-release fertilizer into the soil at planting, which will release you from the need to feed the plants.
Florists' carnations grow much taller than most dianthus plants. Long grown in the mountains and meadows of Europe, varieties of the genus Dianthus offer fragrance and a proliferation of showy, spring blooms. With more than 300 species and many hybrids, the versatile perennials, biennials or annuals can fill most roles in a flower garden. Though not as fragrant as other types of dianthus, sweet william (D. barbatus) is taller, reaching up to 2 or 3 feet, and sturdier. The biennial makes a charming border plant. Seed sweet williams in one year to bloom the next; to have some every year, seed them directly into the garden each spring.