The pound sterling (GBP; £ or ₤) is the official currency used in the United Kingdom. It is also used in British overseas territories, Isle of Man, Bailiwicks of Guernsey and Jersey. The pound is divided into 100 pence. 
The term number sign is most commonly used when the symbol is used before a number. In the United States, it is sometimes known as the pound sign (particularly in the context of its use on telephone keypads), and has been traditionally used in the food industry as an abbreviation for pounds avoirdupois. Outside of North America the symbol is called hash and the corresponding telephone key is called the hash key, and the term pound sign usually describes the British currency symbol £ .
In Canada the symbol is called both the number sign and the pound sign. Major telephone-equipment manufacturers, such as Nortel, have an option in their programming to denote Canadian English, which in turn instructs the system to say number sign to callers instead of pound sign. Outside of North America the symbol is called hash and the corresponding telephone key is called the hash key, and the term pound sign usually describes the British currency symbol £ .
In North American English, it's sometimes called the pound sign and used as a symbol for pounds weight: this can be confusing for British people for whom a pound sign is £. It's also known as the number sign in North American English, in contexts such as go to question #2. 
The most common is probably 'hash'. In the US it is sometimes called the 'pound sign' and used as a symbol for pounds weight, but this confuses the British, for whom a pound sign is £. In music, of course, it is a 'sharp
The pound sign (£) is the symbol for the pound sterling —the currency of the United Kingdom (UK). The same symbol is used for similarly named currencies such as the Gibraltar pound or occasionally the Syrian pound. Although the # sign is commonly called the  hash symbol , it is also referred to as the pound sign in North America (though in reference to the unit of weight, not the unit of currency).
It is never used to denote pounds weight (lb or lbs is used for this) or pounds sterling (for which £ is used). It is never called the pound sign, because that term is understood to mean the currency symbol  £ , for pound sterling or (formerly) Irish pound. Outside of North America the symbol is called hash and the corresponding telephone key is called the hash key, and the term pound sign usually describes the British currency symbol £ .
The pound sterling (symbol: £ ; ISO code: GBP), commonly known simply as the pound, is the official currency of the United Kingdom, Jersey, Guernsey, the Isle of Man, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, the British Antarctic Territory, and Tristan da Cunha. 
The British Pound is the currency of United Kingdom. Our currency rankings show that the most popular United Kingdom Pound exchange rate is the EUR to GBP rate. The currency code for Pounds is GBP, and the currency symbol is £. Below, you'll find British Pound rates and a currency converter. British Pound History. The United Kingdom's central bank is the Bank of England. As the fourth most traded currency, the British Pound is the third most held reserve currency in the world. Common names for the British Pound include the Pound Sterling, Sterling, Quid, Cable, and Nicker.