A list of energy use (kg of oil equivalent) per capita by country. The list shows a huge disparity between the highest energy users and the lowest. It is worth bearing in mind: 1  Colder countries understandably have a relatively higher use of energy because more resources are devoted towards heating. 2  Energy producers have a high energy use, partly because energy tends to be much cheaper.
Western Australia has the highest solar energy consumption in Australia, contributing 40 per cent of Australia’s total solar thermal use in 2007–08 (figure 10.18). New South Wales and Queensland contributed another 26 per cent and 15 per cent respectively. AUSTRALIAN ENERGY RESOURCE ASSESSMENT 261 Chapter 10 Solar Energy 10.1 Summary KEy mESSagES • Solar energy is a vast and largely untapped resource. Australia has the highest average solar radiation per square metre of any continent in the world.
1 The country with the highest energy use per capita is Iceland. 2  A significant part of Iceland’s energy use is thermal energy from naturally occurring volcanic springs. 3  Thus this energy is cheap and does not involve burning fossil fuels. The list shows a huge disparity between the highest energy users and the lowest. It is worth bearing in mind: 1  Colder countries understandably have a relatively higher use of energy because more resources are devoted towards heating. 2  Energy producers have a high energy use, partly because energy tends to be much cheaper.
The US consumes 25% of the world's energy with a share of global GDP at 22% and a share of the world population at 4.59%. The most significant growth of energy consumption is currently taking place in China, which has been growing at 5.5% per year over the last 25 years. Its population of 1.3 billion people (19.6% of the world population) is consuming energy at a rate of 1.6 kW per person. China became the world's largest energy consumer (18% of the total) since its consumption surged by 8% during 2009 (up from 4% in 2008). Oil remained the largest energy source (33%) despite the fact that its share has been decreasing over time.
A map depicting world energy consumption per capita based on 2003 data from the International Energy Agency. The World Bank: Kilograms of oil equivalent (2011). This is a list of countries by total energy consumption per capita. 
The Australian continent has the highest solar radiation per square metre of any continent and consequently some of the best solar energy resource in the world. The regions with the highest solar radiation are the desert regions in the northwest and centre of the continent. However, Australia's current use of solar energy is low with solar energy accounting for only about 0.1 per cent of Australia's total primary energy consumption. The most common use of solar energy is solar thermal water heating. Solar PV systems play an important role in off-grid electricity generation in remote areas.
1 Energy producers have a high energy use, partly because energy tends to be much cheaper. ( 2 See cost of petrol per country). 3  The country with the highest energy use per capita is Iceland. 4  A significant part of Iceland’s energy use is thermal energy from naturally occurring volcanic springs. The list shows a huge disparity between the highest energy users and the lowest. It is worth bearing in mind: 1  Colder countries understandably have a relatively higher use of energy because more resources are devoted towards heating. 2 
Contents 1. Africa – a continent in the dark2. Some features of the African energy picture2.1. Energy consumption issues2.2. Resource potential3. Prospects for hydropower in the Africa’s future energy mix3.1. The urgent need for modern commercial energy…3.2. In the context of energy related global environmental concern3.3. A good share of them (over 600 millions!) live in Africa.- For the continent to meet the annual 6% targeted economic growth rate (NEPAD), it will need to increase its consumption of modern commercial energy, and consequently its electricity production and consumption.