Inflammation of the airways, bronchospasm (tightening of the muscles around the bronchial tubes), and hypersensitivity (reactivity to triggers such as allergens, irritants, or infections) all play a role in the development of wheezing. Any conditions or diseases that can constrict the airways can lead to wheezing. Wheezing can be accompanied by other symptoms such as coughing and shortness of breath. Wheezing may also occur in anaphylaxis, a severe and potentially life-threatening allergic reaction. 
Bronchospasm is a chief characteristic of asthma and bronchitis. Description. Bronchospasm is a temporary narrowing of the bronchi (airways into the lungs) caused by contraction of the muscles in the lung walls, by inflammation of the lung lining, or by a combination of both. This contraction and relaxation is controlled by the autonomic nervous system. Contraction may also be caused by the release of substances during an allergic reaction. The most common cause of bronchospasm is asthma, though other causes include respiratory infection, chronic lung disease (including emphysema and chronic bronchitis), anaphylactic shock, or an allergic reaction to chemicals.
Bronchospasm is a respiratory phenomenon that is described as the unusual narrowing or constriction of the airways. This condition is said to imitate asthma, or simply it is a presenting symptom of an asthma attack. A chronic lung disease is also associated with this condition. 
Bronchospasms are a possible side effect of some drugs: pilocarpine (which is used to treat illness resulting from the ingestion of deadly nightshade, as well as other things), beta blockers (used to treat hypertension), a paradoxical result of using LABA drugs (to treat COPD) and other drugs. Bronchospasm are caused by a number of reasons. Lower respiratory tract diseases such as Pneumonia, Asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), and Emphysema can result in contraction of the airways. Other causes are side effects of topical decongestants such as Oxymetazoline and Phenylephrine.
Bronchospasm: Definition, Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment. Bronchospasm (definition) is defined as constriction of bronchi and bronchioles. It can generally happen due to 3 factors: - a spasm in the smooth muscles of bronchi and bronchioles. - an inflammation of the airways. Bronchospasm symptoms can be effectively eliminated with breathing exercises that involve those breathing devices that trap exhaled CO2 (such as the Amazing DIY breathing device, Frolov breathing device, and Samozdrav). These devices help to increase body-oxygen levels and reduce bronchospasm in a matter of minutes.
A severe allergic reaction to an allergen may cause a bronchospasm, especially if anaphylactic shock has occurred. Chemicals and other lung irritants such as smoke and dust may also lead to a bronchospasm in some people. Exercise is another possible cause of a bronchospasm. 
Bronchospasm or a bronchial spasm is a sudden constriction of the muscles in the walls of the bronchioles. It is caused by the release (degranulation) of substances from mast cells or basophils under the influence of anaphylatoxins. It causes difficulty in breathing which can be very mild to severe. Bronchospasm are caused by a number of reasons. Lower respiratory tract diseases such as Pneumonia, Asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), and Emphysema can result in contraction of the airways. Other causes are side effects of topical decongestants such as Oxymetazoline and Phenylephrine.
Bronchospasms can present as a sign of giardiasis. Bronchospasms are one of several conditions associated with cold housing. Some of the things that can cause bronchospasms are: consuming foods, taking medicines, allergic responses to insects, and fluctuating hormone levels, particularly in women. Bronchospasm are caused by a number of reasons. Lower respiratory tract diseases such as Pneumonia, Asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), and Emphysema can result in contraction of the airways. Other causes are side effects of topical decongestants such as Oxymetazoline and Phenylephrine.
The most common cause of bronchospasm is asthma, though other causes include respiratory infection, chronic lung disease (including emphysema and chronic bronchitis), anaphylactic shock, or an allergic reaction to chemicals. Bronchospasm is a chief characteristic of asthma and bronchitis. Description Bronchospasm is a temporary narrowing of the bronchi (airways into the lungs) caused by contraction of the muscles in the lung walls, by inflammation of the lung lining, or by a combination of both.