in·au·di·ble. adj. Impossible to hear: an inaudible conversation. Inaudible the creaking joints of her stiffened knees, as she knelt down by the bedside. House Of Seven Gables by Hawthorne, Nathaniel View in context. Augustine, a hundred and fifty miles to the south, was inaudible two miles to the north in a still atmosphere
Fantastic-Fables by Bierce, Ambrose View in context. Inaudible the creaking joints of her stiffened knees, as she knelt down by the bedside. House Of Seven Gables by Hawthorne, Nathaniel View in context. Augustine, a hundred and fifty miles to the south, was inaudible two miles to the north in a still atmosphere
adjective. A dog whistle is inaudible to the human ear. A dog whistle is inaudible to the human ear. The definition of inaudible is something that can't be heard. An example of something inaudible is a dog whistle to a human. not audible; that cannot be heard or be distinctly heard. 
This is the British English definition of inaudible. View American English definition of inaudible. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for inaudible. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
Definition of UNAUDIBLE. : inaudible. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of inaudible from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
1. inaudible-impossible to hear; imperceptible by the ear; an inaudible conversation. unhearable. imperceptible, unperceivable-impossible or difficult to perceive by the mind or senses; an imperceptible drop in temperature; an imperceptible nod; color is unperceivable to the touch. Inaudible the creaking joints of her stiffened knees, as she knelt down by the bedside. House Of Seven Gables by Hawthorne, Nathaniel View in context. Augustine, a hundred and fifty miles to the south, was inaudible two miles to the north in a still atmosphere
Example Sentences Including 'inaudible'. She looked down at the raw skin left from where the scabs had fallen off and spoke in a voice that was nearly inaudible. THE LIGHT WAS A DOVE, soft and grey, filling the dining-hall with inaudible music. She ran towards the shadow of the trees at the edge of the clearing, her footsteps inaudible