One driver I spoke with suggested that Uber should allow drivers who make rush hour trips --morning or evening -- into the five boroughs to keep 90 percent of the fare. I would go a step further and say, considering they're taking in $20 million a week, they should cover all N.J. driver's river-crossing tolls.
My story is I don't really make that much as an Uber driver. Guess people have the misconception of Uber drivers making tons of money due to their advertising. In reality, it ranges from $3 to $35 an hour depending on the distance of the ride.
Uber driver pay varies depending on where you live and how many hours you drive. I make between $20 and $25 an hour in Los Angeles. Studies across the nation show that Uber drivers make over $19 an hour on average. In New York City, the average Uber driver makes over $30 an hour.
There is also no such thing as an Uber driver salary. As described above, drivers are paid a portion of the fare for every ride that is given. As promised, here is an example of my pay for one 10 ½ hour day: $256.30 / 10.5 hours = $24.41 an hour. Which — if I save 10% for taxes and spend 10% on gas and vehicle costs– is about $19.53 an hour.
While current and prospective Boston uberX drivers have been told they can potentially make upwards of $50,000 shuttling Uber users around for more than 40 hours per week, the tech company appears to be cooking the books.
With uberX, essentially anyone with a car can sign up to be a driver. And Uber makes it pretty easy to do. The first step is to head on over to this website. If you're at least 21 years old, have a license, personal auto insurance, and a four-door car in good condition, you can sign up to be a driver. The next step is passing Uber's background check.
Depending on whom you ask, driving for Lyft or UberX is either a gold mine or an exploitative labor practice. Uber last year infamously claimed many of its drivers made more than $90,000 per year, but it did not account for the cost of driver expenses like gas and car maintenance.