Chinese warty newts, Chinese fire belly newts, eastern newts, paddletail newts, Emperor newts, Spanish ribbed newts (leucistic genes exist), Red-tailed knobby newts are some commonly seen newts in the pet trade. Adult newts have lizard-like bodies and may be either fully aquatic, living permanently in the water, or semiaquatic, living terrestrially, but returning to the water every year to breed.
Newton Leroy  Newt  Gingrich (/ˈnuːt ˈɡɪŋɡrɪtʃ/ ; born Newton Leroy McPherson; June 17, 1943) is an American politician, historian, author and political consultant. In 1946, his mother married Army officer Robert Gingrich (1925–1996), who adopted Newt. His father, a career officer, served tours in Korea and Vietnam. In 1956 the family moved to Europe living for a period in Orleans, France and Stuttgart, Germany.
Newts metamorphose through three distinct developmental life stages: aquatic larva, terrestrial juvenile (called an eft), and adult. Adult newts have lizard-like bodies and may be either fully aquatic, living permanently in the water, or semiaquatic, living terrestrially, but returning to the water every year to breed.
The newt is a small amphibian and the average newt only tends to grows to around 15cm long, some newts however are bigger or smaller depending on the species of newt. The newt is found naturally in North America, Europe and Asia and the newt is thought to be a subspecies of the salamander. People commonly keep fire-bellied newts, paddle-tail newts and crocodile newts as pets. The newt is seen as a good pet to keep as the newt is small and quiet and some species of newt, like the great crested newt native to Europe can get to 27 years old.
Salamander is a common name for the order of Caudata which includes 9 families, of which 8 are found in North America. Newt is a common name applied to certain members of a family of relatively small salamanders. Also in the order of Caudata are sirens which are aquatic salamanders, which have no hind limbs. So newts and sirens are really salamanders.
Full Definition of NEWT. : any of various small salamanders (family Salamandridae) that are usually semiaquatic as adults. See newt defined for English-language learners. See newt defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A newt is a semiaquatic amphibian of the family Salamandridae, although not all aquatic salamanders are considered newts. Adult newts have lizard-like bodies and may be either fully aquatic, living permanently in the water, or semiaquatic, living terrestrially, but returning to the water every year to breed.
The newt is generally a solitary animal but some species of newt are known to hibernate in groups. Newts generally come together during the mating season which tends to take place in early spring. People commonly keep fire-bellied newts, paddle-tail newts and crocodile newts as pets. The newt is seen as a good pet to keep as the newt is small and quiet and some species of newt, like the great crested newt native to Europe can get to 27 years old.
The newt's skin, however, is not as smooth as that of other salamanders. Aquatic larvae have true teeth on both upper and lower jaws, and external gills. They have the ability to regenerate limbs, eyes, spinal cords, hearts, intestines, and upper and lower jaws. Adult newts have lizard-like bodies and may be either fully aquatic, living permanently in the water, or semiaquatic, living terrestrially, but returning to the water every year to breed.
The word salamander is the name for an entire group, or scientific order, of amphibians that have tails as adults. This includes animals commonly known as newts and sirens. Most of the animals in the salamander order look like a cross between a lizard and a frog. They have moist, smooth skin like frogs and long tails like lizards. The term newt is sometimes used for salamanders that spend most of each year living on land. The bold color tells predators that the newt is not safe to eat. Many salamanders have glands on the back of the neck or on the tail. These glands can secrete a poisonous or bad-tasting liquid. Some species can even shed their tail during an attack and grow a new one later.