Chicken and rabbit meat pie. A meat pie is a pie with a filling of meat and often other savory ingredients. They are popular in United Kingdom, Ghana, Nigeria, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and South Africa. The beginnings of the meat pie can be traced back to the Neolithic Period, around 9500 BC. The ancient Egyptians' diet featured basic pies made from oat, wheat, rye, and barley, and filled with honey and baked over hot coals.
Delicious recipes for pie including fruit pies, chocolate pie, frozen ice cream pies, apple pie and more. It's as easy as pie to find a great recipe with over 2,700 to choose from. 
Pies are defined by their crusts. A filled pie (also single-crust or bottom-crust), has pastry lining the baking dish, and the filling is placed on top of the pastry but left open. A top-crust pie has the filling in the bottom of the dish and is covered with a pastry or other covering before baking. Some of these pies are pies in name only, such as the Boston cream pie, which is a cake. Many fruit and berry pies are very similar, varying only the fruit used in filling. Fillings for sweet or fruity are often mixed, such as strawberry rhubarb pie. 1  Apple pie
As such, each part deserves respect. What I want in my apple pie filling is first and foremost apples that are completely tender, yet stay in distinct chunks with just a bit of al dente bite to them. Apples that turn to mush or worse, are mealy can ruin a good pie for me. So for the next two week's worth of articles here at the Food Lab, we're going to talk apple pie filling. This week, we'll start by figuring out exactly which apples make the best filling and why, then next week, we'll figure out the best way to cook them.
Well this fabulous recipe adds a delicious twist to the apply classic. Sliced, unadorned apples are mounded into a pie crust and topped with a lattice crust. Then, just before baking, a sweet, thick sugar syrup is poured carefully onto the crust. An hour later, the apples are tender and fragrant and the crust a glistening brown. For this lovely pie, sweet potatoes are boiled, peeled and mashed together with butter, sugar, milk and eggs, then seasoned with nutmeg, cinnamon and vanilla. Recipe by COUGAAR. This easy frozen peanut butter pie recipe has a rich and creamy filling that will satisfy everyone's sweet tooth.
Greek meat pies are called kreatopita and contain ground beef, onions and feta cheese. The filling for kreatopita is wrapped in phyllo dough. Indian meat pies are called samosa and usually contain peas, spiced potatoes, coriander, lentils, or ground beef or chicken and are often served with chutney. The beginnings of the meat pie can be traced back to the Neolithic Period, around 9500 BC. The ancient Egyptians' diet featured basic pies made from oat, wheat, rye, and barley, and filled with honey and baked over hot coals.
Whether you're craving apple, chocolate, pecan, strawberry or pumpkin pie, we have best pie recipes with tips, photos and videos to help make it right--even the crust! For this lovely pie, sweet potatoes are boiled, peeled and mashed together with butter, sugar, milk and eggs, then seasoned with nutmeg, cinnamon and vanilla. Recipe by COUGAAR. This easy frozen peanut butter pie recipe has a rich and creamy filling that will satisfy everyone's sweet tooth.