Hot-dip galvanization is a form of galvanization. It is the process of coating iron and steel with a layer of zinc by immersing the metal in a bath of molten zinc at a temperature of around 840 °F (449 °C). The process of hot-dip galvanizing results in a metallurgical bond between zinc and steel with a series of distinct iron-zinc alloys. The resulting coated steel can be used in much the same way as uncoated.
Galvanized steel is steel that has been treated with a rust-resistant zinc coating. It can come in the form of sheets, tubes or rolls, and is available in a variety of thicknesses and strengths. This material is used in manufacturing around the world for products exposed to moisture and adverse weather conditions. 
Ad. One of the best characteristics of galvanized steel wire is the fact that, should the galvanized coating be scratched through to the underlying steel, it will continue to cathodically protect the exposed steel from corrosion. This makes the galvanizing process a particularly efficient anti-corrosion treatment. Galvanization -- the applying of protective zinc coatings to steel or iron -- is often performed using special machines at production factories. Most galvanized steel wire is produced through a hot dip process. Zinc-plated rolls. Corrosive metals are coated with zinc through a process known as galvanizing
Galvanization, or galvanisation, is the process of applying a protective zinc coating to steel or iron, to prevent rusting. The most common method is hot-dip galvanization, in which parts are submerged in a bath of molten zinc. Galvanizing protects in two ways: 1  It forms a coating of corrosion-resistant zinc which prevents corrosive substances from reaching the more delicate part of the metal. 2  The zinc serves as a sacrificial anode so that even if the coating is scratched, the exposed steel will still be protected by the remaining zinc.
Steel cable can be galvanized to protect it from rust and other corrosion. Galvanized steel can be made into sheets for a variety of applications. Galvanized nails are covered with a protective zinc coating. Some metal items cannot be galvanized effectively; the coating of zinc would be too thick on a small screw, for example. In many cases, stainless steel, made with chromium, is used instead. Unlike galvanized metals, stainless steel is not coated in the metal; chromium is part of the composition of the steel alloy.
Galvanized steel is steel that has gone through a chemical process to keep it from corroding. The steel gets coated in layers of zinc oxide because this protective metal does not get rusty as easily. The coating also gives the steel a more durable, hard to scratch finish that many people find attractive. Some metal items cannot be galvanized effectively; the coating of zinc would be too thick on a small screw, for example. In many cases, stainless steel, made with chromium, is used instead. Unlike galvanized metals, stainless steel is not coated in the metal; chromium is part of the composition of the steel alloy.
Resistant to Damage. The zinc coating on a galvanized wire also provides the steel wire with a hard, protective coating. Exposed steel wire is relatively easily chipped, scratched and otherwise damaged in ways that weaken the strength of the wire. Galvanized wire is used in many different industries due to its durability. This type of wire is easily identified because of the bright shine it usually holds. Farmers use it for fencing, and it is widely used in shipyards
The term galvanized means that a metal has been specially treated with zinc. Essentially, the basic wire is completely coated in a very thin layer of zinc. It is this zinc coating that gives galvanized wire its useful properties. Galvanized wire is used in many different industries due to its durability. This type of wire is easily identified because of the bright shine it usually holds. Farmers use it for fencing, and it is widely used in shipyard