Combination skin is just what the name implies—skin that is a combination of both dry and oily types. If you drew a big “T” on your face, all the skin under that T would likely be oily and acne-prone, while the areas left outside the T are dry and potentially flaky. If you have combination skin, you probably already know what the problems are, but here are the main ones you may experience: 1  Blackheads and acne in the T-zone area. 2  Large pores in the T-zone area. 3  Shininess and oily skin in the T-zone area. 4  Dry, flaky and dull cheeks.
A combination skin type can be dry or normal in some areas and oily in others, such as the T-zone (nose, forehead, and chin). Many people have combination skin, which may benefit from slightly different types of skin care in different areas. Combination skin can produce: 1  Overly dilated pores. 2  Blackheads. 3  Shiny skin. 
Combination skin type is neither dry nor oily, it’s generally a mixture of both. If you have a Combination skin type, most of the time you will notice more oil on your forehead, nose and chin area. The other parts would be normal or dry and varies from person to person. 
Combination skin is a term used to describe facial skin that shows symptoms of both dry skin and oily skin. Combination skin can be a challenge to care for effectively, as oil-decreasing products may be overdrying in certain places on the skin, while moisturizing products may cause excessive oiliness in other areas. 
Combination Skin Characteristics. If you find your t-zone (the forehead, down the nose to the chin) is oily, prone to blackheads and breakouts while your cheeks may remain dry and flaky, you have combination skin. Most people's skin changes a lot over the course of the year. Skin is seasonally and hormonally affected
Combination Skin. Combination skin is a combination of both oily and dry skin. There is a greasy center panel consisting of nose, forehead and chin and a dry panel consisting of cheeks, mouth and the areas around the eyes. This type of skin is very common, and it should be treated as if it were two different types of skin. 
Combination Skin Causes. Combination skin can be really frustrating: Part of your face looks dry, while the rest of it is shiny and greasy. Fortunately, you can treat combination skin. To understand how care for it properly, you have to look at what causes oily skin and what causes dry skin. 
Combination skin means you may have a slightly oily T-zone and drier cheeks with dry patchy spots here and there. You may also have larger pores on your cheeks and possibly your forehead. This skin type has medium pores, a smooth and even texture, good circulation and a healthy color. If your skin is oily, the paper will stick, pick up oily spots and become translucent. If the paper doesn't stick or pick up any oily spots, your skin is likely dry. If it sticks in your t-zone (forehead, nose and chin) then you have combination (or normal) skin. Most women actually have combination skin. Here are the 5 different skin types and their tell-tale characteristics
Combination skin features areas of both dry and oily skin. The oily areas are concentrated in the T-zone of the face (forehead, nose and chin), while the dry skin is on the cheeks and jawline. Dry areas feel tight after washing and can often be flaky and dull. The oily areas in the T-zone can get shiny, feel greasy and be prone to breakouts. Cleansing, moisturizing and protecting combination skin can be difficult, as the oily and dry areas need different treatment and care.