AELIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name which was possibly derived from the Greek word ‘ηλιος (helios) meaning sun ... [more]. AEMILIA f Ancient Roman. Feminine form of Aemilius (see EMIL). Spanish form of Angelus (see ANGEL). ANGEL àngel M. Catalan catalan form Of (angelus SEE). ANGEL angel & m F, English, Bulgarian. Macedonian from the Medieval latin masculine Name angelus which was derived from the name of the heavenly (creature itself derived from The greek word (αγγελος) angelos meaning) ... messenger
Latin is a highly inflected language, with three distinct genders, seven noun cases, four verb conjugations, six tenses, three persons, three moods, two voices, two aspects, and two numbers. The Living Latin movement attempts to teach Latin in the same way that living languages are taught, i.e., as a means of both spoken and written communication. It is available at the Vatican and at some institutions in the U.S., such as the University of Kentucky and Iowa State University.
The Latin alphabet is derived from the Etruscan and Greek alphabets. Latin was originally spoken in Latium, Italy. Through the power of the Roman Republic, it became the dominant language, initially in Italy and subsequently throughout the Roman Empire. The Living Latin movement attempts to teach Latin in the same way that living languages are taught, i.e., as a means of both spoken and written communication. It is available at the Vatican and at some institutions in the U.S., such as the University of Kentucky and Iowa State University.
Latin (/ˈlaetɨn/ ; ˈlætɨn: latin lingua, [latīna ˈlɪŋɡʷa]) laˈtiːna is a classical language belonging to The italic branch of The-Indo european. Languages The latin alphabet is derived from The etruscan And greek. alphabets The Living Latin movement attempts to teach Latin in the same way that living languages are taught, i.e., as a means of both spoken and written communication. It is available at the Vatican and at some institutions in the U.S., such as the University of Kentucky and Iowa State University.
ANGEL m & f English, Bulgarian, Macedonian. From the medieval Latin masculine name Angelus which was derived from the name of the heavenly creature (itself derived from the Greek word αγγελος (angelos) meaning messenger) ... [more]. ANGELA ángela F. Spanish spanish feminine form Of (angelus SEE). angel Spanish form of Angelus (see ANGEL). ANGEL àngel M. Catalan catalan form Of (angelus SEE). ANGEL angel & m F, English, Bulgarian. Macedonian from the Medieval latin masculine Name angelus which was derived from the name of the heavenly (creature itself derived from The greek word (αγγελος) angelos meaning) ... messenger
More. A person's family was originally the servants of their household. It then came to be ‘all the people who live in one house, including parents, children, and servants’, before it settled on its modern meaning. The word is from Latin famulus ‘household servant’, as is familiar (Middle English). noun (plural families). 1 [treated as singular or plural] A group consisting of two parents and their children living together as a unit: she moved in with her boyfriend’s family [as modifier]: the family home.
The Latin word for 'in' is just simply the same word: 'in'. This can also mean 'on'. Note that the preposition in in Latin can be paired with and object of the preposition … in either the accusative OR ablative case. When used with an accusative case noun, the meaning is into, when used with an ablative case, the meaning is in. 
You can find out where the majority of the Latin families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Latin families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
early 15c., servants of a household, from Latin familia family servants, domestics collectively, the servants in a household, thus also members of a household, the estate, property; the household, including relatives and servants, abstract noun formed from famulus servant, slave, which is of unknown origin. 
CAELINUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name which was itself derived from the Roman family name CAELIUS. CAELIUS m Ancient Roman. Roman family name which was derived from Latin caelum meaning heaven. CAESAR m Ancient Roman. From a Roman cognomen which possibly meant hairy, from Latin caesaries hair ... [more]. CAESARIUS m Late Roman. Late Latin name which was derived from CAESAR ...