In addition to these impacts derived quantitatively by theLCA tool, there are other known important impacts that resultfrom cocoa production. The cocoa production stage generatesa large amount of solid waste in the form of pod husks.
This paper is aimed at providing a compre-hensive picture of the environmental impacts associated with cocoa production and processing in Ghana by applying the life cycle assessment(LCA) methodology. The analysis considered the entire system required to produce and process 1 kg of cocoa bean.
However in the case of cocoa, some of the research was positive because all the. detrimental ingredients in chocolate-and their negative health effects-were not part of the study. If people were to consume pure cocoa (or cacao, the unheated form), they might indeed be able to enjoy a. few health benefits, including a positive effect on blood pressure [63] and glucose metabolism, however the.
The study was based on two assumptions: (1) the quality of cocoa beans produced and exported depends on the actions and interactions of all the actors in the cocoa sector and (2) institutions shape the incentives for these actions and interactions [19] .
For this study, the functional unit chosen was1 kg of cocoa beans processed. All the inputs and outputs inthe life cycle inventory (LCI) and impact scores produced inthe life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) phase of this LCAstudy were expressed with reference to this functional unit.2.2.
The cacao bean, also referred to as the cocoa bean or simply as cocoa, is in fact the fermented and dried fatty bean obtained from the Therobroma cacao. From these beans, cocoa butter and cocoa solids are usually obtained. Additionally, they are the basis of foods like tejate, mole sauce, or chocolate.
Fertilizer also impacts pod quality, hence bean quality and weight, the latter being one of the best criteria to measure cocoa quality in terms of conversion rate from beans to cocoa butter (photos 1 and 2).
1 Creating the first bean-to-bar premium chocolate company in Cameroon. 2  Made in Cameroon and exported as a ready-to-eat product to European, American and Asian markets. 3  Improving Cameroon’s global reputation as a source of quality products.