(You can’t claim both.) If you saved your receipts throughout the year, you can add up the total amount of sales taxes you actually paid and claim that amount. If you didn’t save all your receipts, you can still choose to claim state and local sales taxes. First select the tax year for which you are preparing a return. Then, using your ZIP Code and just a few entries from your draft Form 1040, the Sales Tax Deduction Calculator will automatically figure the amount of state and local sales tax you can claim.
1 Sales tax: You can deduct sales tax paid in 2010 if the amount was greater than the state and local income taxes you paid. 2  In other words, you get to choose: Write off your sales taxes or write off your income taxes. 3  If you didn’t keep your sales-tax receipts, use the IRS’s sales tax deduction estimator. 1 If you didn’t keep your sales-tax receipts, use the IRS’s sales tax deduction estimator. 2  Even if you claim the sales tax amount from the IRS tables, you can add in tax paid on vehicles or boats purchased during the year, except to the extent the sales tax rate on them is more than the general sales tax rate.
You cannot deduct any amount paid above the state's general sales tax rate; in other words, if your state taxes vehicle purchases at 8 percent, and imposes a general sales tax of 6 percent, you can only deduct sales tax paid on a car up to 6 percent. If your state does not have an income tax, or if you choose not to declare it, then you can deduct state and local sales taxes as well as property taxes and vehicle taxes.
Income and Sales Taxes. The IRS does not allow the deduction of sales taxes if you also deduct state income taxes. If your state does not have an income tax, or if you choose not to declare it, then you can deduct state and local sales taxes as well as property taxes and vehicle taxes.
If you do claim the sales tax deduction, you can either claim the amount you actually paid (based on receipts) or the amount given to you by the IRS's Sales Tax Deduction Calculator. For a more detailed explanation of the state and local sales tax deduction, please see Deducting State Sales Tax. Yes, you can claim state and local sales taxes on your return. But in order to do so you must itemize deductions and you must not claim state and local income taxes. You're al … lowed to claim either state and local income taxes or state and local sales taxes, but not both.
There are some situations where groceries are tax-deductible. Everyone can claim groceries on their taxes. However, most of the time, the IRS sends a very personal note indicating the deduction was disallowed and requesting more money. There are some situations where groceries could become a legitimate expense. This doesn't mean the IRS will accept it immediately
Changes in the tax laws in 2005 now let you deduct state and local sales tax. It’s a trade-off, though. You can either deduct state and local income taxes or state and local sales taxes. You can’t deduct both of them, so you need to figure out both taxes to determine which one will give you the bigger deduction. There are two ways to figure out your state and local sales taxes: In addition to the state and local income taxes, you can also deduct: 1  Estimated taxes that you paid to a state or local government during the year. 2  Payments of state or local income tax that you owed from a prior year.