1 For benzodiazepine withdrawal in elderly people with insomnia: 2 mg of controlled-release melatonin taken at bedtime for 6 weeks (the benzodiazepine dosage is reduced 50% during the second week, 75% during weeks 3 and 4, and stopped during weeks 5 and 6) and continued up to 6 months. 1 For insomnia: 2  0.3-5 mg at bedtime is a typical dose. 3  In children with insomnia due to delayed sleep onset, melatonin 5 mg at 6:00 PM daily.
1 For benzodiazepine withdrawal in elderly people with insomnia: 2 mg of controlled-release melatonin taken at bedtime for 6 weeks (the benzodiazepine dosage is reduced 50% during the second week, 75% during weeks 3 and 4, and stopped during weeks 5 and 6) and continued up to 6 months. 1 0.3-5 mg at bedtime is a typical dose. 2  In children with insomnia due to delayed sleep onset, melatonin 5 mg at 6:00 PM daily. 3  In children with developmental disorders (including cerebral palsy, autism, and intellectual disabilities), melatonin 5 mg at 8
Melatonin is POSSIBLY SAFE when used by mouth appropriately, long-term. Melatonin has been used safely for up to 2 years in some people. However, it can cause some side effects including headache, short-term feelings of depression, daytime sleepiness, dizziness, stomach cramps, and irritability. Do not drive or use machinery for four to five hours after taking melatonin. Melatonin is also used for some of the side effects of cancer treatment (chemotherapy) including weight loss, nerve pain, weakness, and a lowered number of clot-forming cells (thrombocytopenia). It is also used to calm people before they are given anesthesia for surgery.
Melatonin is a hormone made by the pineal gland, a small gland in the brain. Melatonin helps control your sleep and wake cycles. Very small amounts of it are found in foods such as meats, grains, fruits, and vegetables. You can also buy it as a supplement. In most cases, melatonin supplements are safe in low doses for short-term and long-term use. But be sure to talk with your doctor about taking them. Children and pregnant or nursing women should not take melatonin without talking to a doctor first. Melatonin does have side effects.
BY MOUTH: View Sources. 1  For insomnia: 2  0.3-5 mg at bedtime is a typical dose. 3  In children with insomnia due to delayed sleep onset, melatonin 5 mg at 6:00 PM daily. 4  In children with developmental disorders (including cerebral palsy, autism, and mental retardation), melatonin 5 mg at 8:00 PM daily. 1 For insomnia: 2  0.3-5 mg at bedtime is a typical dose. 3  In children with insomnia due to delayed sleep onset, melatonin 5 mg at 6:00 PM daily.
During health exams, tell your doctor if you are taking melatonin. And tell your doctor if you are having trouble sleeping (insomnia), because it may be related to a medical problem. In adults, melatonin is taken in doses from 0.2 mg to 20.0 mg, based on the reason for its use. In most cases, melatonin supplements are safe in low doses for short-term and long-term use. But be sure to talk with your doctor about taking them. Children and pregnant or nursing women should not take melatonin without talking to a doctor first. Melatonin does have side effects.
Melatonin is a hormone found naturally in the body. Melatonin used as medicine is usually made synthetically in a laboratory. It is most commonly available in pill form, but melatonin is also available in forms that can be placed in the cheek or under the tongue. Melatonin is also used for some of the side effects of cancer treatment (chemotherapy) including weight loss, nerve pain, weakness, and a lowered number of clot-forming cells (thrombocytopenia). It is also used to calm people before they are given anesthesia for surgery.
1 0.3-5 mg at bedtime is a typical dose. 2  In children with insomnia due to delayed sleep onset, melatonin 5 mg at 6:00 PM daily. 3  In children with developmental disorders (including cerebral palsy, autism, and mental retardation), melatonin 5 mg at 8:00 PM daily. 1 For insomnia: 2  0.3-5 mg at bedtime is a typical dose. 3  In children with insomnia due to delayed sleep onset, melatonin 5 mg at 6:00 PM daily.
Melatonin supplements are sometimes used to treat jet lag or sleep problems (insomnia). Scientists are also looking at other good uses for melatonin, such as: 1  Treating seasonal affective disorder (SAD). 2  Helping to control sleep patterns for people who work night shifts. In most cases, melatonin supplements are safe in low doses for short-term and long-term use. But be sure to talk with your doctor about taking them. Children and pregnant or nursing women should not take melatonin without talking to a doctor first. Melatonin does have side effects.