The great seal of New Mexico is rich in symbols. The Mexican eagle grasping a snake in its beak and cactus in its talons portrays an ancient Aztec myth and symbolizes that New Mexico treasures its Spanish, Mexican and Native American traditions (New Mexico was settled by Spanish colonists and was later part of Mexico). 
The coat of arms depicts a Mexican golden eagle perched on a prickly pear cactus devouring a snake. To the people of Tenochtitlan this would have strong religious connotations, but to the Europeans, it would come to symbolize the triumph of good over evil. The coat of arms recalls the founding of Mexico City, then called Tenochtitlan. The legend of Tenochtitlan as shown in the original Mexica codices, paintings, and post-Cortesian codices, does not include a snake.
The Eagle refers to the Aztecs. When the Aztecs were looking for a place to settle, they believed they should build their city where they encountered an eagle perched on a cac … tus with a snake in its talon. Where the Aztecs supposedly found this is now known as Mexico City. According to Aztec legend, the gods advised the Aztec people to build their capital on the location in which they saw an eagle, perched on a prickly pear tree, eating a serpent. They built their capital, Tenochtitlan, on what is now the main plaza of
Answer   it means when the aztecs saw the eagle in their crops   the symbol or sign to build their great city! There is an old myth about an eagle landing on a rock with a snake in it's beak. The Aztecs believed that this would show where to found their capital. Mexico City is today built on that very site. According to Aztec legend, the gods advised the Aztec people to build their capital on the location in which they saw an eagle, perched on a prickly pear tree, eating a serpent. They built their capital, Tenochtitlan, on what is now the main plaza of Mexico City.
Red, white, and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico. The central emblem is the Mexican coat of arms, based on the Aztec symbol for Tenochtitlan (now Mexico City), the center of the Aztec empire. It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island. The form of the coat of arms was most recently revised in 1968.
In the middle of the Mexican flag between the green and red stripes is a picture of an eagle holding a snake in its mouth hand right claw. The Left claw of the eagle is resting upon a cactus plant which in turn is situated in a lake. Symbolism of the Mexican Flag. The symbolism of the three colors of the Mexican flag is also best explained in light of Mexican history. Originally a colony of Spain, Mexico finally gained it’s independence in the 19th century. The color green was chosen for the flag to represent independence from Spain.
The Eagle refers to the Aztecs. When the Aztecs were looking for a place to settle, they believed they should build their city where they encountered an eagle perched on a cactus with a snake in its talon. Where the Aztecs supposedly found this is now known as Mexico City. it means when the aztecs saw the eagle in their crops the symbol or sign to build their great city! There is an old myth about an eagle landing on a rock with a snake in it's beak. The Aztecs believed that this would show where to found their capital. Mexico City is today built on that very site. An eagle holding a snake in its beak perched on a cactus plant was the symbol, based on legend, that the Aztecs looked for when finding the location to build their sacred ci … ty. They apparently found this site one day and built Tenochtitlan.
The Eagle in the Mexican Flag In the middle of the Mexican flag between the green and red stripes is a picture of an eagle holding a snake in its mouth hand right claw. The Left claw of the eagle is resting upon a cactus plant which in turn is situated in a lake. The symbolism of the three colors of the Mexican flag is also best explained in light of Mexican history. Originally a colony of Spain, Mexico finally gained it’s independence in the 19th century. The color green was chosen for the flag to represent independence from Spain.
Mexican flag symbolizes the greatest things of the Mexican people. The Mexican flag consists of: three colors (green, white and red), and the Mexican Coat of Arms (the Mexican golden eagle perched upon a prickly pear cactus devouring a snake. The cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake). Present Mexico: Green Hope, White Union, Red Blood of the Heroes. The golden eagle on the Mexican flag represents the Mexican people; as the eagle is always prepared for the challenges and the combat so are the Mexican people. The snake on the Mexican flag that the eagle is devouring represents all of the Mexican enemies. The fact that the Mexican eagle is devouring the snake means that the Mexican people will always prevail over their enemies and that they would never surrender