The Senate Minority leader is to act as the chief spokesperson for the their respective party, and are responsible for the coordination and managing for their party's agenda in the Senate. Currently, the Senate Minority Leader is Republican Mitch McConnell from Kentucky. 
The Senate is currently composed of 54 Republicans, 44 Democrats, and 2 independents, both of whom caucus with the Democrats. The current leaders are Republican Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada. The current Assistant Majority Leader is Republican John Cornyn of Texas. The current Assistant Minority Leader is Democrat Dick Durbin of Illinois. The Democrats began the practice of electing floor leaders in 1920 while they were in the minority. John Worth Kern (December 20, 1849 – August 17, 1917) was a Democratic United States Senator from Indiana.
As leader of the minority party in the House, the Minority Leader works with the Democratic Caucus to set the party agenda, message, and strategy. From time to time, the Minority Leader appoints Minority members to task forces and also has statutory responsibilities to fill positions on Commissions. The House Democratic Caucus serves all Democratic Members of the House and their staff. The Caucus is the primary vehicle for communicating the party’s message to Members.
As leader of the minority party in the Senate, the Minority Leader works with the Democratic Caucus to set the Democratic agenda, message, and strategy. From time to time, the Minority Leader appoints Minority members to task forces and also has statutory responsibilities to fill positions on Commissions. The Senate Democratic Conference Secretary is the third ranking leadership position for the minority party. The Democratic Conference Secretary is selected by a vote of the Democratic Conference. The Senate Democratic Conference is the organizational vehicle for all Democrat Members of the Senate and their staff
By contrast, party leaders of the United States Senate have often ascended to their position despite relatively few years of experience in that chamber, such as Lyndon B. Johnson, William F. Knowland, and Bill Frist. The floor leaders and whips of each party are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot. The Speaker-elect is also chosen in a closed-door session although they are formally installed in their position by a public vote when Congress reconvenes.
If the Minority Leader's party takes control of the House, and the party officers are all re-elected to their seats, the Minority Leader is usually the party's top choice for Speaker for the next Congress, while the Minority Whip is typically in line to become Majority Leader. The floor leaders and whips of each party are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot. The Speaker-elect is also chosen in a closed-door session although they are formally installed in their position by a public vote when Congress reconvenes.
The Assistant Majority and Minority Leaders of the United States Senate (commonly called Senate Majority and Minority Whips) are the second-ranking members of the party leadership of the United States Senate. The main function of the Majority and Minority Whips is to gather votes on major issues. The current Assistant Minority Leader is Democrat Dick Durbin of Illinois. The Democrats began the practice of electing floor leaders in 1920 while they were in the minority. John Worth Kern (December 20, 1849 – August 17, 1917) was a Democratic United States Senator from Indiana.
Party leaders and whips of the United States House of Representatives are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders. The U.S. House of Representatives does not officially use the term  Minority Leader  although the media frequently does. The floor leaders and whips of each party are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot. The Speaker-elect is also chosen in a closed-door session although they are formally installed in their position by a public vote when Congress reconvenes.
Senate Assistant Minority Leader. The responsibilities of the Assistant Minority Leader are similar to that of the House Whip: persuading Members to support the Caucus position on votes and projecting support for the Caucus position. Website for the Assistant Minority Leader: Senator Dick Durbin. The Senate Democratic Conference Secretary is the third ranking leadership position for the minority party. The Democratic Conference Secretary is selected by a vote of the Democratic Conference. The Senate Democratic Conference is the organizational vehicle for all Democrat Members of the Senate and their staff