PRESCRIBED FOR: Augmentin is effective against susceptible bacteria causing infections of the middle ear (otitis media), tonsillitis, throat infections (pharyngitis), laryngitis, bronchitis, sinusitis, and pneumonia. It is also used in treating urinary tract infections, and skin infections. 
The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate is an oral antibiotic widely used in the treatment of mild-to-moderate bacterial infections including sinusitis, bronchitis, otitis media, cellulitis and community acquired pneumonia. The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate is a commonly used antibiotic which is active against many bacterial organisms that cause sinusitis, bronchitis, otitis media, skin and tissue infection
Augmentin ® (amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium) is a prescription antibiotic medication. It is used to treat a variety of infections. Augmentin ES -600 ® and Augmentin XR ® are similar but slightly different products. This article applies only to regular Augmentin products (not ES or XR). 
Augmentin ® (amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium) is an antibiotic used to treat a variety of different infections, including: 1  Lower respiratory tract infections (such as pneumonia). 2  Ear infections. In order to prevent this, broad-spectrum antibiotics (which are active against a wide range of bacteria) should not be used to treat infections that could be treated by an antibiotic with a narrower spectrum of activity. Augmentin is usually considered a broad-spectrum antibiotic. In addition, Augmentin should not be used unless tests have shown that a particular infection is caused by bacteria that are susceptible to Augmentin or if there is reason to strongly suspect that the bacteria are susceptible to the medication
Augmentin is the brand name of a combination antibiotic drug containing amoxicillin and clauvulanate. It's used to treat bacterial infections in your airways, such as a sinus infection or pneumonia. 
A: Amoxicillin is an antibiotic in the penicillin group of drugs. It fights bacteria in your body. Amoxicillin is used to treat many types of infections caused by bacteria, such as ear infections, bladder infections, pneumonia, gonorrhea, and E. coli or salmonella infection. Penicillins have been shown to be excreted in human milk. A: Amoxicillin is an antibiotic used to treat infections in humans. Fish Mox is an antibiotic sold in pet stores that contains amoxicillin. Fish Mox has not been approved for human use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
The usual adult dose is one 500-mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours. For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract, the dose should be one 875-mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 500-mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours. The 250-mg tablet of AUGMENTIN should not be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250-mg tablet of AUGMENTIN (250/125) versus the 250-mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN (250/62.5).
USES: Amoxicillin /clavulanic acid is a penicillin-type antibiotic used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria.This antibiotic only treats bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu). 
Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid is widely used to treat or prevent many infections caused by susceptible bacteria, such as: 1  urinary tract infections. 2  respiratory tract infections. 3  skin and soft tissue infections. 4  sinus infections. 5  cat scratches. 6  infections caused by the bacterial flora of the mouth, such as: 7  dental infections. Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (INN) or co-amoxiclav (BAN) is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. It is a combination antibiotic consisting of amoxicillin trihydrate, a β-lactam antibiotic, and potassium clavulanate, a β-lactamase inhibitor.