The modern state of Orissa was established on 1 April 1936, as a province in British India, and consisted predominantly of Oriya-speaking regions. April 1 is celebrated as Odisha Day. The region is also known as Utkala and is mentioned in India's national anthem,  Jana Gana Mana . Odisha is mainly known for its rich culture and the enormous number of ancient temples. The temples of Odisha conform to the Indo Aryan Nagara style of architecture, with distinctive features specific to this region.
Orissa can also be named as the state of religiosity due to its having several religious places located at its different corners. There are numerous places to visit in Odisha since its being the land of amazing beaches, wildlife sanctuaries and enthralling natural landscape. One of the four most celebrated religious centers of India Puri is also named as Jagannath Puri because of the 12th century Jagannath Puri Temple situated here. Apart from Jagannatha Temple, Gunchinda Temple, Chilika Lake and Pipli are other major attractions of the city.
I am talking about My Birth Land, Odisha, The Land of Temples, one of the 29th state of India, located in the east coast of India. As I was born and brought up here, obvious, Odisha has a very special position in my heart. The modern state of Odisha, formerly known Orissa, was established on 1st of April, 1936, which is celebrated as foundation day of Odisha and is called Utkala Dibasa (“Odisha” is also known as “Utkala” & “Dibasa” means “Day”). The 13th Century Temple, The Konark Sun Temple, was built around AD 1250, in the form of a large chariot. Its the proud of Odisha, being featured in the list of Seven Wonders of India by NDTV and the Times of India.
Located on the east coast, Odisha (Formerly Orissa), also known as The Soul of India, is a mystical land where the hoary past and the modern today form a harmonious blend-where ancient temples mingle with modern five star hotels. Odisha (Formerly Orissa) is also a place where you can have FUN! Let your hair down and relax on the tranquil beaches or pump up the adrenalin with a high speed ride on a water scooter at the Chilka Lake...Whatever your hearts desire, you'll find it here!
The name, Odisha (formerly Orissa), refers to the current state in India. But in the different era the region and parts of the region were known by different names. The boundaries of the region also has varied over the ages. 
Since the ancient times, Odisha has been inhabited by people from various parts of the country. The earliest to arrive were the tribes of the hills known as the Sabar and the Saora from the Mahabharata times. The state has a history of around 5,000 years. Odisha became famous due to the Kalinga rule. The state of Odisha can be found from the ancient times which mean there are various monuments that are now a world heritage site and plenty of other monuments that are architectural marvels today.
Odisha is notable as one of the first Indian states to have tackled its structural problems during the post-1994 Indian economic reforms. Odisha was also the first state in India to begin to privatise its electricity transmission and distribution businesses. Odisha is mainly known for its rich culture and the enormous number of ancient temples. The temples of Odisha conform to the Indo Aryan Nagara style of architecture, with distinctive features specific to this region.
Distance Calculator Odisha. Odisha (Odia: ଓଡ଼ିଶା), also known as Orissa, is a state of India, located on the east coast of India, by the Bay of Bengal. It is the modern name of the ancient nation of Kalinga, which was invaded by the Maurya Emperor Ashoka in 261 BC. The modern state of Odisha was established on 1 April 1936 at Kanika Palace, Cuttack, as a province in India, and consists predominantly of Odia speakers.
The world wide known masterpieces of Odisha architecture are The Konark Sun Temple, The Puri Jagannath Temple, The Lingaraja Temple at Bhubaneswar, to name a few. The 13th Century Temple, The Konark Sun Temple, was built around AD 1250, in the form of a large chariot. Its the proud of Odisha, being featured in the list of Seven Wonders of India by NDTV and the Times of India.
Odisha is also the land of unique handicrafts and other excellent artefacts. Odisha, with a rich heritage that is more than two thousand years old, has a glorious history of its own. It was known under different names in different periods: Kalinga, Utkal or Odradesha. 