Full sun situations are preferable in temperatures that are at least 60 degrees Fahrenheit. Pole beans need a support structure at least 6 feet high and the vines can grow 5 to 10 feet long. Pole beans need at least an inch of water per week and should not be allowed to dry out but also cannot tolerate soggy soils. Beans need a little help climbing their support structure, especially when young.
Plant bush beans in either rows or blocks, with 4-6 inches between each seed. Plant the seeds 1-2 inches deep and be sure to water the soil immediately and regularly, until it sprouts. Pole beans will need some type of support to grow on. Be sure the trellis, teepee, fence or whatever is in place before you seed. Plant seeds at a rate of about 3-6 seeds per teepee or every 6 inches apart.
How to Plant Pole Beans. Sow the seeds 4 to 8 inches apart in rows that are 24 to 36 inches apart in rows. Push the seeds one inch and lightly brush soil over them. When planting them in hills, sow four to six seeds at even intervals around the hill. Water after planting until the top 2 to 3 inches of soil are damp. Pole beans need a support structure at least 6 feet high and the vines can grow 5 to 10 feet long. Pole beans need at least an inch of water per week and should not be allowed to dry out but also cannot tolerate soggy soils. Beans need a little help climbing their support structure, especially when young.
Plant bush beans in either rows or blocks, with 4-6 inches between each seed. Plant the seeds 1-2 inches deep and be sure to water the soil immediately and regularly, until it sprouts. Pole beans will need some type of support to grow on. Be sure the trellis, teepee, fence or whatever is in place before you seed. Plant seeds at a rate of about 3-6 seeds per teepee or every 6 inches apart
Plant the seeds 1-2 inches deep and be sure to water the soil immediately and regularly, until they sprout. 1  Bush beans can be planting in single rows or by broadcasting seeding in wide rows with about a 4 - 6 in. spacing between plants. 2  Pole beans will need some type of support to grow on. 1 Pole beans will need some type of support to grow on. 2  Be sure the trellis, teepee, fence or other support, is in place before you seed. 3  Plant seeds at a rate of about 6 - 8 seeds per teepee or every 6 inches apart.
Pole beans grow to heights of 10 feet or more and require staking. Many prefer the increased size and rich flavor of pole beans to that of bush beans. However, they require more time to reach maturity. Pole beans, such as Kentucky Wonder and Kentucky Blue, produce tender green pods that mature in 65 to 75 days. 
1 Pole beans: Set up trellises, or “cattle panels,” and plant 3 inches apart. 2  If you like pole beans, an easy support for them is a “cattle panel”—a portable section of wire fence—16 feet long and 5 feet tall. 3  The beans will climb with ease, and you won’t have to get into contorted positions to pick them. 
One of the giants of the vegetable garden, annual pole beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) grow 5 to 10 feet tall or taller and need substantial support such as a trellis or stakes. The large-leaved vines have an ornamental aspect, and some varieties have colorful yellow or purple pods. Plant pole beans about 1 inch deep and 2 to 4 inches apart in hills or rows. Put four to six seeds at the base of a stake for hills. For rows, put a trellis behind each row and space rows 4 to 5 feet apart
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Germination of pole beans should take between eight to ten days. After germination, pole beans can be harvested after about 70 days and can be harvested five times during the growing season. How long does it take bean seeds to germinate? About 10 to 15 days on average but this depends on a lot of factors such as temperature,climate,sunlight, and moisture.