The uterus is a hollow muscular organ located in the female pelvis between the bladder and rectum. The ovaries produce the eggs that travel through the fallopian tubes. Once the egg has left the ovary it can be fertilized and implant itself in the lining of the uterus.
The nonpregnant uterus is located in the pelvis. It is the size of a lemon, and is tucked behind the pubic bone. your uteris is found in your vaginal cavity. It's basically in the lowest part of a female's belly, below the waistline.
Uterus: A hollow, pear-shaped organ that is located in a woman's lower abdomen, between the bladder and the rectum. The narrow lower portion of the uterus is the cervix (the neck of the uterus).
The uterus is a female reproductive organ located between the bladder and the rectum, in the pelvic area. The uterus has three layers: the inner lining (endometrium); the middle muscular layer (myometrium); and the outer layer (perimetrium). The uterus is connected to the fallopian tubes, the cervix, and (via the cervix) the vagina. The main purpose of the uterus is to nourish a fetus prior to birth.
The uterus is a inverted pear shaped muscular organ located in the middle of the female pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum. It is suspended by ligaments in the abdominal cavity.
The uterus is located in the lower abdomen between the bladder and the rectum. The uterus is also called the womb. It is pear-shaped, and the lower, narrow end of the uterus is the cervix. When a woman is pregnant, the baby grows in the uterus until he or she is born.
The uterus is a pear-shaped organ located in the female pelvis between the urinary bladder anteriorly and the rectum posteriorly (see the image below). The average dimensions are approximately 8 cm long, 5 cm across, and 4 cm thick, with an average volume between 80 and 200 mL.
Normal Uterus. The uterus is a inverted pear shaped muscular organ located in the middle of the female pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum. It is suspended by ligaments in the abdominal cavity.