.tk is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for Tokelau, a territory of New Zealand located in the South Pacific. 
Thus, colloquially, a person speaking Bangla may use taka to refer to money regardless of what currency it is denominated in. This is common in the Indian state of West Bengal and Tripura, where the official name of the Indian rupees is taka as well. In the region of Bengal, the term has always been used to refer to currency. In the 14th century, Ibn Battuta noticed that people in the Bengal Sultanate referred to gold and silver coins as taka instead of dinar.
The British Pound is the currency of United Kingdom. Our currency rankings show that the most popular United Kingdom Pound exchange rate is the EUR to GBP rate. The currency code for Pounds is GBP, and the currency symbol is £. Below, you'll find British Pound rates and a currency converter. British Pound History. The United Kingdom's central bank is the Bank of England. As the fourth most traded currency, the British Pound is the third most held reserve currency in the world. Common names for the British Pound include the Pound Sterling, Sterling, Quid, Cable, and Nicker.
The Taka (টাকা) is the currency of Bangladesh and is subdivided into 100 poisha. The most commonly used symbol for the Taka is Tk and ৳. In Bengali, the word taka is also used to mean any money, currency, or notes. Thus, colloquially, a person speaking Bengali may use taka to refer to money regardless of what currency it is denominated in. 1  BDT RSS Feed. 2  Central bank of Bangladesh
or Tk, code: BDT) is the official currency of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Issuance of banknotes ৳ 5 and larger is controlled by Bangladesh Bank, and for the ৳ 1 and ৳ 2 banknotes, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance of the government of Bangladesh. In the region of Bengal, the term has always been used to refer to currency. In the 14th century, Ibn Battuta noticed that people in the Bengal Sultanate referred to gold and silver coins as taka instead of dinar.
The most commonly used symbol for the taka is  ৳  and Tk, used on receipts while purchasing goods and services. ৳ 1 is subdivided into 100 poisha. The word taka in Bangla is also commonly used generically to mean any money, currency, or notes. In the region of Bengal, the term has always been used to refer to currency. In the 14th century, Ibn Battuta noticed that people in the Bengal Sultanate referred to gold and silver coins as taka instead of dinar.
This Bangladeshi Taka and United States Dollar convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 9, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of Bangladeshi Taka. Use Swap currencies to make United States Dollar the default currency. The symbol for USD can be written $. The Bangladeshi Taka is divided into 100 paisa (poisha). The United States Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Bangladeshi Taka was last updated on October 8, 2015 from Bloomberg.
Bangladeshi Taka (BDT) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion Calculator. This currency convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 8, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Bangladeshi Taka and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Bangladeshi Taka is the currency in Bangladesh (BD, BGD). The symbol for BDT can be written Tk
BDT-Bangladeshi Taka. Bangladesh, Taka. The Bangladeshi Taka is the currency of Bangladesh. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Bangladesh Taka exchange rate is the BDT to USD rate. The currency code for Taka is BDT, and the currency symbol is Tk. Below, you'll find Bangladeshi Taka rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take BDT rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website.
The United States Dollar is also known as the American Dollar, and the US Dollar. The symbol for BDT can be written Tk. The symbol for USD can be written $. The Bangladeshi Taka is divided into 100 paisa (poisha). The United States Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Bangladeshi Taka was last updated on October 8, 2015 from Bloomberg. The exchange rate for the United States Dollar was last updated on October 8, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. The BDT conversion factor has 4 significant digits