Stephanie Tombrello. child passenger safety specialist. You can safely switch your child to a booster seat if she's at least 4 years old and she weighs 40 pounds or more or has grown too tall for her car seat (when her shoulders are higher than the top set of harness-strap slots in the car seat's back). In a crash, belt-positioning seats are far safer. (If you have only lap belts in the rear of your car, select a booster seat with an extra energy absorber belt.) Backless booster seats tend to provide a better fit than the high-back kind, and are more portable when you're switching them from car to car.
A backless booster. A booster seat is used to lift up a child and properly position the vehicle's lap/shoulder belts on children who are too small to fit the adult seat belt. Boosters are rated for use from 30-40 lbs to 80-100 lbs. Booster seats do not have a harness. 
Six seats had the more reasonable minimum weight limit of 40 pounds. This makes sense because the growth of children between 30 and 40 pounds occurs at a slower rate than when they are infants. An average 40-pound child is typically closer to age five, a much safer age to consider making a transition to booster use. 
Boosters Are For Big Kids Most kids need to ride in a booster seat from about age 4 until age 10-12. If your child isn’t using a booster, try the simple test below the next time you ride together in the car. You may find that your child is not yet ready to use a safety belt without a booster. 
Buckling children in age-and size-appropriate car seats, booster seats, and seat belts reduces the risk of serious and fatal injuries: 1  2. 2  Booster seat use reduces the risk for serious injury by 45% for children aged 4–8 years when compared with seat belt use alone. Age 5 up until seat belts fit properly: Booster seat. Once children outgrow their forward-facing seat, (by reaching the upper height or weight limit of their seat), they should be buckled in a belt positioning booster seat until seat belts fit properly.
restraint until they are at least 5 years old and weigh more than 40 pounds. • Children older than 5 and more than 40 pounds must ride in a booster seat. until the child is 8 years old or is taller than 4 feet 9 inches. • Anyone over the age of 8 must be protected by a safety belt. • A booster seat helps your child fit correctly in your vehicle’s safety belt. It positions the lap belt on the hips and the shoulder belt across the chest, providing the greatest amount of protection. • Motor vehicle crashes are the #1 killer of children between the ages of 4-8.
Does my 8-year-old still need to ride in a booster seat?... Can my son ride in a forward-facing car seat if he is over 1 year old?... What do I do if my daughter has outgrown the height restriction for her car seat, but not the weight restriction?... Should my 60 lb. child ride in the front seat or the back seat?... 
Children no longer need to use a booster seat once seat belts fit them properly. Seat belts fit properly when the lap belt lays across the upper thighs (not the stomach) and the shoulder belt lays across the chest (not the neck). The recommended height for proper seat belt fit is 57 inches tall. Age 5 up until seat belts fit properly: Booster seat. Once children outgrow their forward-facing seat, (by reaching the upper height or weight limit of their seat), they should be buckled in a belt positioning booster seat until seat belts fit properly.
Forward facing harnessed seats are outgrown when a child reaches the weight limit, or more commonly when the child's shoulders are above the top harness slots. If the child is 4 years AND 40lbs, then he may move to a booster with vehicle lap shoulder belt seatbelt. The minimum on a 5 pt harness seat is 40 lbs, the minimum in CA on the booster is 6 yrs, 60 lbs. Again, that's the minimum, not the safest. I bought a Britax Regent. It holds them forward facing in a 5 pt harness from 20 lbs to 80 lbs. and I don't have kids. I bought it for when my nephew is in my car