Profile. General Electric Company is a globally diversified technology and financial services company. The Company's products and services include aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and household appliances to medical imaging, business and consumer financing and industrial products. 3135 Easton Turnpike.
In October 2010, General Electric acquired gas engines manufacture Dresser Inc. for a $3 billion deal and also bought a $1.6 billion portfolio of retail credit cards from Citigroup Inc. On October 14, 2010, GE announced the acquisition of data migration & SCADA simulation specialists Opal Software. It was announced in April 2015 that General Electric would sell most of its finance unit and return around $90 billion to shareholders as the firm looked to trim down on its holdings and rid itself of its image of a hybrid company working in both banking and manufacturing.
GE Aviation, a subsidiary of General Electric, is headquartered in Evendale, Ohio, outside Cincinnati. GE Aviation is among the top aircraft engine suppliers, and offers engines for the majority of commercial aircraft. GE Aviation is part of the General Electric conglomerate, which is one of the world's largest corporations. General Electric had a long history in steam turbine work, dating back to the early 1900s. In 1903 they hired Sanford Alexander Moss, who, in time, started the development of turbosuperchargers at GE. This led to a series of record-breaking flights over the next ten years.
GE is building the world by providing capital, expertise and infrastructure for a global economy. GE Capital has provided billions in financing so businesses can build and grow their operations and consumers can build their financial futures. Pound for pound, the GEnx is the quietest, most fuel-efficient, and lowest emissions engine GE has ever built. 1  GE’s installed base of 1.5 MW wind turbines have the capacity to generate power used by 5 million U.S. homes each year.
In 1911, General Electric absorbed the National Electric Lamp Association (NELA) into its lighting business. GE established its lighting division headquarters at Nela Park in East Cleveland, Ohio. Nela Park is still the headquarters for GE's lighting business. It was announced in April 2015 that General Electric would sell most of its finance unit and return around $90 billion to shareholders as the firm looked to trim down on its holdings and rid itself of its image of a hybrid company working in both banking and manufacturing.
And for most companies, it is. If you asked me about Wal-Mart, General Motors, or Bank of America, I'd tell you they're in the business of retail, automotive manufacturing, and banking, respectively. I'm sure anyone would. These are household names, after all. Isaac Pino, CPA, owns shares of General Electric Company. The Motley Fool recommends Bank of America and General Motors. The Motley Fool owns shares of Bank of America and General Electric Company. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days
General Electric was formed through the 1892 merger of Edison General Electric Company of Schenectady, New York, and Thomson-Houston Electric Company of Lynn, Massachusetts, with the support of Drexel, Morgan & Co. Both plants continue to operate under the GE banner to this day. It was announced in April 2015 that General Electric would sell most of its finance unit and return around $90 billion to shareholders as the firm looked to trim down on its holdings and rid itself of its image of a hybrid company working in both banking and manufacturing.
On March 1, 2010, General Electric (GE) announced that the company is planning to sell its 20.85% stake in Turkey-based Garanti Bank. In August 2010, GE Healthcare signed a strategic partnership to bring cardiovascular Computed Tomography (CT) technology from start-up Arineta Ltd. of Israel to the hospital market. It was announced in April 2015 that General Electric would sell most of its finance unit and return around $90 billion to shareholders as the firm looked to trim down on its holdings and rid itself of its image of a hybrid company working in both banking and manufacturing.
Profile GE. General Electric Co. is a technology and financial services company that develops and manufactures products for the generation, transmission, distribution, control and utilization of electricity. Its products and services include aircraft engines, power generation,... 1 General Electric Earnings: What to Watch. 2  1 hour ago. 3  The Wall Street Journal. 4  The Wall Street Journal. 5  Europe Mulls Aircraft-Parts Competition Investigation Amid Airline Complaints. 6  4 hours ago. 7