Ranks and Badges of the Royal Air Force. Here is the rank structure for commissioned ranks of the Royal Air Force. Ranks are shown in ascending order. In many cases, the Royal Air Force rank will be the junior of the three Services, the Royal Navy having seniority over both the Army and RAF. Rank insignia for commissioned ranks is worn on the lower arm of dress uniform.
The Air Force officer ranks have the same names as the Army and Marines but are abbreviated differently. The abbreviations, from lowest to highest, are as follows: 2d Lt, 1st Lt, Cpt, Maj, LtCol, Col, BrigGen, MajGen, LtGen and Gen. The Air Force also has at the top spot a General of the Air Force. These are called warrant officers and range in the pay grades of W-1 through W-5. Except for the Air Force, every branch of the military has warrant officers. While these pay grades are consistent across all branches of the military, the rank and abbreviation associated with them varies.
Due to the ambiguity created by the common use of captain for officers of different grades between the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, equivalency is conferred between officers by use of identical pay grade rather than title of rank. In the United States uniformed services, captain is a commissioned officer rank. In keeping with the traditions of the militaries of most nations, the rank varies between the services, being a senior rank in the naval services and a junior rank in the ground and air forces
CAPT. CAPT, or Capt., is the abbreviation for the rank of Captain in the United States Air Force. A Captain is a commissioned officer in the pay grade of O-3. Captains fall in the first tier of commissioned officers, also known as company grade officers. Captains may serve as commanders of small units or on the executive staff at group or wing level.
CPT for captain or Dr. for doctor. Generally addresses are in this format: CPT John F Crunch 1234 Air Force Ave. Hellhole AFB, TX 66666 Use his rank instead of title. 
The higher the grade, the higher the rank of the officer. For example, an Army, Air Force, or Marine captain is equivalent in rank, responsibilities, and grade to a Navy or Coast Guard lieutenant, all of which are of the third officer grade, or O-3. In the United States uniformed services, captain is a commissioned officer rank. In keeping with the traditions of the militaries of most nations, the rank varies between the services, being a senior rank in the naval services and a junior rank in the ground and air forces
This chart displays the United States Air Force officer rank insignia. The ranks are divided into three sections: company grade, field grade, and general officers. Company grade officers are those officers of grades O-1 to O-3. The current Air Force officer rank names and insignia were borrowed from the Army upon the establishment of the Air Force as a separate service in 1947.
The flight cap is solid Air Force Blue for enlisted personnel, but features a solid silver edge braid for general officers, and an edge braid in a silver and blue diamond pattern for other officers. Officers wear a bright metal rank insignia toward the front edge of the (wearer's) left side of the flight cap. The current Air Force officer rank names and insignia were borrowed from the Army upon the establishment of the Air Force as a separate service in 1947.