Cost of living in Victoria, Seychelles, Seychelles. Expatistan is a collaborative effort. Comparisons improve with every new price that you enter. We need your help! Tell us about prices in Victoria, Seychelles. 
So whilst the prices in the Seychelles compare more with a European holiday than a Hangover-type party in Thailand, you can rest assured that you will receive more than your fair share of value for money. Whilst certainly not the cheapest location on earth, the prices compare relatively well with those in Europe. The main expense for any holiday-maker (excluding accommodation and flights of course) are food and drink.
1 The four main banks are Barclays Bank, Seychelles Savings Bank, Nouvobanq and Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB). 2  They have branches on Mahe, Mahé praslin And La. 3  Digue'you ll also find numerous-money. 4  Changers'there s no commission for changing.  cash Last updated October 11, 2015 3:46AM UTC. 1  The unit of currency is the Seychelles rupee (Rs), which is divided into 100 cents 2  (¢). Bank notes come in denominations of Rs 10, Rs 25, Rs 50, Rs 100 and Rs 500; there are coins of Rs 1, Rs 5, 1¢, 5¢, 10¢ and 25¢. 3  Euros are the best currency to carry.
Answers. Best Answer: Everything in the line of food and drink is imported there, so one can expect it to be pretty much an expensive area, but fortunately the Seychelles Rupee is about one tenth of the Brits Pound and about one seventh of the American Dollar, so that cancels out the expense. 
1 The unit of currency is the Seychelles rupee (Rs), which is divided into 100 cents 2  (¢). Bank notes come in denominations of Rs 10, Rs 25, Rs 50, Rs 100 and Rs 500; there are coins of Rs 1, Rs 5, 1¢, 5¢, 10¢ and 25¢. 3  Euros are the best currency to carry. Last updated October 11, 2015 3:46AM UTC. 1 
The environment is a treasured aspect of Seychelles and there are more than 1,000 recorded species of fish around the islands and Aldabra, just one of the islands, is home to the largest population of giant tortoises in the world. The Seychelles [1] are a group of 115 islands, only a few inhabited, in the Indian Ocean that lie off the coast of East Africa, northeast of Madagascar.
Shopping [edit]. The best place for shopping is Victoria, the capital, and more specifically the market at the city centre. There are also a few outlets on the island, Praslin, but few shopping areas on the other islands. Larger hotels have boutiques but shopping in Seychelles is not one of the major attractions. The Seychelles [1] are a group of 115 islands, only a few inhabited, in the Indian Ocean that lie off the coast of East Africa, northeast of Madagascar.
We are often asked about the cost of living in the Seychelles when on holiday. Whilst certainly not the cheapest location on earth, the prices compare relatively well with those in Europe. The main expense for any holiday-maker (excluding accommodation and flights of course) are food and drink.
An island nation, Seychelles is located in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar and about 1,600 km (994 mi) east of Kenya. The archipelago consists of more than 116 islands. The granitic islands are considered the oldest and hardest granite in the world. Seychelles (/seɪˈʃɛlz/ say-SHELZ; French: [sɛʃɛl]), officially the Republic of Seychelles (French: Republique république Des; Seychelles: Creole Repiblik), sesel is an archipelago in The Indian. ocean