LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of affiant is a legal term used to identify someone who makes a sworn statement called an affidavit. An example of an affiant is a person who gives testimony to the police and then swears to it and usually signs it. 
Notary Terms and Definitions. The following notary terms and their definitions are written in everyday language for notaries public. For a more comprehensive list of terms and their definitions consider purchasing Barron’s Dictionary of Legal Terms from ASN’s online store. Notary Terms and Definitions. Basic notary terms and definitions pertaining to the office of notaries public. Credible Witness (allowed in many, but not all, states): Where allowed, a credible witness provides a way to positively identify a signer who lacks satisfactory identification documents.
affiant. n. 1. (Law) law US a person who makes an affidavit. [C19: Old French, from affier to trust to, from Medieval Latin affīdāre; see affiance]. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: affiant (Noun). The individual witness whose statement is contained in an affidavit or sworn deposition. Further affiant sayeth naught. (A centuries-old statement that is still used on some legal documents as the final declaration prior to the affiant's signature.). Origin: From the present participle of afier, from affidare.
Full Definition of AFFIDAVIT. : a sworn statement in writing made especially under oath or on affirmation before an authorized magistrate or officer. See affidavit defined for English-language learners. See affidavit defined for kids. Definition of AFFIDAVIT for Kids. : a written statement signed by a person who swears that the information is true.
Definition of AFFIANT. : one who swears to an affidavit; broadly: deponent. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Vasil Levski 's affidavit, 16 June 1872, Bucharest, Romania. An affidavit (/ˌaefɨˈdeɪvɨt/ ˌæfɨˈdeɪvɨt-a-Fə-day) vət is a written sworn statement of fact voluntarily made by an affiant or deponent under an oath or affirmation administered by a person authorized to do so by. law
Affiant Law & Legal Definition. An affiant is a person who swears to the truth of statements made in an affidavit. An affidavit is statement of facts which is sworn to (or affirmed) before an officer who has authority to administer an oath (e.g. a notary public). 