How to Cultivate a Euphorbia Plant. As a general rule, Spurge requires well-drained soil in full sun. A few tolerate shadier conditions, but none of the family is fussy about soil condition. They even thrive in very poor soils and can tolerate periods of drought. 
Definition of EUPHORBIA. : any of a large genus (Euphorbia) of herbs, shrubs, and trees of the spurge family that have a milky juice and flowers lacking a calyx and included in an involucre which surrounds a group of several staminate flowers and a central pistillate flower with 3-lobed pistils; broadly: spurge. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of EUPHORBIA. 1. : a large genus of plants of the spurge family that have a milky juice and flowers included in an involucre which surrounds a group of several staminate flowers and a central pistillate flower and that include a number which have been used medicinally. 2
Tweet. : any of a large genus (Euphorbia) of herbs, shrubs, and trees of the spurge family that have a milky juice and flowers lacking a calyx and included in an involucre which surrounds a group of several staminate flowers and a central pistillate flower with 3-lobed pistils; broadly: spurge. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of EUPHORBIA. 1. : a large genus of plants of the spurge family that have a milky juice and flowers included in an involucre which surrounds a group of several staminate flowers and a central pistillate flower and that include a number which have been used medicinally. 2
spurge. n. 1. (Plants) any of various euphorbiaceous plants of the genus Euphorbia that have milky sap and small flowers typically surrounded by conspicuous bracts. spurge. n. Any of numerous herbs, shrubs, or trees of the genus Euphorbia, characteristically having milky juice and a cluster of small unisexual flowers that are surrounded by a cuplike structure composed of fused bracts. Also called euphorbia. [Middle English, from Old French
Spurge. Euphorbia. There are hundreds of different spurges -- and most are valued by gardeners because they're drought-resistant and almost always ignored by deer and rabbits. Spurges are surefire picks for adding color to the garden. Many also turn gorgeous colors in the fall, enlivening the fall garden. 
Noxious Weeds-Myrtle Spurge. Myrtle Spurge (Euphorbia myrsinites), also called donkey tail or creeping spurge, is one of Colorado's List A noxious weeds, which requires it to be eradicated and prevented from propagating. Myrtle Spurge is a  List A Noxious Weed under the Colorado Noxious Weed Act (35-5.5 CRS) and must be eradicated on all property. Identifying Myrtle Spurge. Myrtle Spurge is an herbaceous plant with fleshy, waxy, grayish-green leaves that spiral around spreading, prostrate stems.
Medical Definition of SPURGE. : any of various mostly shrubby plants (family Euphorbiaceae, the spurge family, and especially genus Euphorbia) that have a bitter milky juice and that include several which have been used medicinally—see ipecac spurge. 
Lawn Weed Identification & Control. Prostrate Spurge, also known as spotted spurge or creeping spurge (Chamaesyce maculata and Euphorbia supina), is a low growing, mat-forming, summer annual. 