Definition of Downstream. The downstream stage in the production process involves processing the materials collected during the upstream stage into a finished product. The downstream stage further includes the actual sale of that product to other businesses, governments or private individuals. The upstream part of the production process does not do anything with the material itself, such as processing the material. This part of the process simply finds and extracts the raw material.
the upstream of a pipe is its inlet and the downstream is its outlet  ****if your talking about broadband/internet speed*****downstream is taking information from the intern … et.(downloading) upstream is putting info on the internet uploading. Every river in the U.S. has an upstream and a downstream. If you're looking for rivers that run northbound, this is the list: The Red River-Minnesota and Dakota. The St. Jo … hn River-Jacksonville, FL. The Saginaw River-Michigan. The Shiawasee River-Michigan. (slightly easterly) The Kishwaukee River-Illinois
Upstream Downstream Definition. Upstream direction is the end of the waterway from where the flow of water originates. Where the flow ends, at the opposite end of the waterway, is downstream. For exemple, from Kingston to Toronto you are heading upstream, the water emptying from a river back into the ocean. Kingston to Cornwall is “downstream”. When going in the upstream direction, you keep all the red buoys on the starboard side and the green buoys on port side.
Basically: In term of flow of data, your repo is at the bottom (downstream) of a flow coming from upstream repos (pull from) and going back to (the same or other) upstream repos (push to). Again, with the flow of data analogy, in a DVCS, one bad command upstream can have a ripple effect downstream. Note: this is not limited to data. It also applies to parameters, as git commands (like the porcelain ones) often call internally other git commands (the plumbing ones).
Definition of Upstream. The upstream stage of the production process involves searching for and extracting raw materials. The upstream part of the production process does not do anything with the material itself, such as processing the material. This part of the process simply finds and extracts the raw material. Thus, any industry that relies on the extraction of raw materials commonly has an upstream stage in its production proces
Best Answer: Downstream means after. The words upstream (before) and downstream (after) are based on the flow direction. For example: if a fluid flows from a distillation column to a tank, we can say the tank is downstream the column or the column is upstream the tank. Source(s): Fabio · 9 years ago.
Best Answer: Downstream is the direction of the water flow. If you jump into the water at point A you will float downstream to point B. The current will carry you to point B. On the other hand, if you want to get to point C which is upstream, you are going to have to swim against the current. Would downstream be the same direction as the water flow of a river or would it be opposite? I&#39;m reading Fahrenheit 451 and I am nearing the end of the book. In the book it said that Montag stripped and threw his clothes in the water