Baking your Chicken Legs... Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: An accurate way to check chicken doneness is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thigh, avoiding the bone. It should read 180°F when the chicken is don
Baking, or roasting, chicken legs results in juicy, flavorful meat and crispy skin. Preparing them is as simple as tossing the legs with your favorite flavor combinations and popping them in the oven at a fairly high heat. Read on for three ways to make chicken legs: honey baked, spicy hot, and rosemary garlic. Bake the chicken. Put the chicken in the oven and set a timer for 30 minutes. Check the chicken after 30 minutes. It should be ready when the skin is crispy and golden brown, or when the internal temperature has reached 180 degrees. Use a meat thermometer to check the temperature.
Instructions. 1  Combine brine ingredients in a large stock pot and add the chicken. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place a wire rack over a baking sheet. 3  Mix flour with dry Italian dressing and place into a shallow dish. 4  Remove drumsticks from brine and rinse then dry with paper towels. 5  Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes. Turn all drumsticks over and bake another 30 minutes. Juices should run clear. If you prefer not to use the packaged Italian dressing mix, there’s a homemade version over at All Recipes here.
Baking the Chicken: Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: An accurate way to check chicken doneness is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thigh, avoiding the bone. It should read 180°F when the chicken is done. 
1 cup BBQ sauce of choice. Heat oven to 400 degrees. Rinse and pat dry the chicken (make sure it is completely thawed) and place it in a large roasting pan or a rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle the chicken with olive oil and season it generously with salt and pepper. Place the pan in the oven and bake for 25 minutes. Reduce the heat to 375. 
Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 1
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Put a sheet tray in the oven to preheat. Wash and trim the chicken legs of any excess fat. Mix the garlic, rosemary and panko together in a shallow rimmed dish and season well with salt and pepper. Alternately, crush the garlic and rosemary with some olive oil and salt in a mortar and pestle. 
Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Bake another half an hour (or until cooked til 160 degrees)). 1 Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5
1 Pour the oil into a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. 3  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes. 4  Remove from oven and drain on paper towels. 1 Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. 2  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes. 3  Remove from oven and drain on paper towels. 4  Enjoy!
Pat the chicken pieces dry with a paper towel. Sprinkle all sides with salt. Let the chicken pieces sit for 15 to 20 minutes to take the chill off. 2 Preheat your oven to 400°F (205°C). Pat the chicken pieces dry with a paper towel. Rub olive oil over the chicken pieces and on the bottom of the roasting pan. Sprinkle the chicken pieces all over with black pepper and a little more salt. 