Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Reflex arc is the path of impulse that travels from receptor (ex. skin) to spinal cord through sensory nerve and from spinal cord to effectors (ex. muscles) through motor nerve. This impulse helps us to perform reflex action. The somatic reflex arc is a neural circuit that travels through the spinal cord. It allows the body to respond to the stimulus before the brain interprets the message/ impulse … .
1. the route followed by nerve impulses in the production of a reflex act, from the peripheral receptor organ through the afferent nerve to the central nervous system synapse and then through the efferent nerve to the effector organ. 2. a neural pathway that involes both the peripheral and central nervous systems. reflex arc. the circuit traveled by impulses producing a reflex action: from the receptor organ, through the afferent nerve, nerve center, efferent nerve,
The route followed by nerve impulses in the production of a reflex act, from the peripheral receptor organ through the afferent nerve to the central nervous system synapse and then through the efferent nerve to the effector organ. re·flex arc. 1. the route followed by nerve impulses in the production of a reflex act, from the peripheral receptor organ through the afferent nerve to the central nervous system synapse and then through the efferent nerve to the effector organ. 2. a neural pathway that involes both the peripheral and central nervous systems
The route followed by nerve impulses in the production of a reflex act, from the peripheral receptor organ through the afferent nerve to the central nervous system synapse and then through the efferent nerve to the effector organ. reflex arc. the circuit traveled by impulses producing a reflex action: from the receptor organ, through the afferent nerve, nerve center, efferent nerve,
A reflex arc is a neural pathway that controls a reflex action. In higher animals, most sensory neurons do not pass directly into the brain, but synapse in the spinal cord. 
Answers. Best Answer: technical jargon; A reflex arc is the neural pathway that mediates a reflex action. In higher animals, most sensory neurons do not pass directly into the brain, but synapse in the spinal cord. 
The nerve impulse travels through the reflex arc.   It travels from the sensor through the sensory neurone, through the spinal cord and motor neurone to the effector muscle … . A reflex arc will travel from the receptor (reactor to stimuli) to sensory neurons, to the interneurons which will respond (unlike the brain in conscious action) and send the … message to motor neurons which will operate the effector (carries out response to stimuli).
1. Route followed by nerve impulses in production of a reflex act, from peripheral receptor organ through afferent nerve to central nervous system synapse and then through efferent nerve to effector organ. 2. Neural pathway that involes both peripheral and central nervous systems. re·flex arc. 1. the route followed by nerve impulses in the production of a reflex act, from the peripheral receptor organ through the afferent nerve to the central nervous system synapse and then through the efferent nerve to the effector organ. 2. a neural pathway that involes both the
In a simple reflex arc, such as the knee jerk, a stimulus is detected by a receptor cell, which synapses with a sensory neurone. The sensory neurone carries the impulse from site of the stimulus to the central nervous system (the brain or spinal cord), where it synapses with an interneurone. The interneurone synapses with a motor neurone, which carries the nerve impulse out to an effector, such as a muscle, which responds by contracting.