Fresh sardines are not as common as canned, and you’ll need to prepare the fish before digging in. This can take a little effort if you’re not used to it, but the seafood counters at many grocery stores will actually do it for you right in the store; just ask. 
If you get your hands on some fresh sardines, they feature in fabulous recipes originating from all over the Mediterranean basin. But sardines are so simple and basic, you really don’t need a recipe to get the best out of them. 2. They aren’t bad for you. Sardines are low on the oceanic food chain, and therefore contain low amounts of mercury, PCBs and the other toxins that accumulate in longer-living marine predators such as salmon and tuna. This makes them a particularly good choice for children and pregnant women.
Is canned fish as good for you as fresh? A. Both canned and fresh fish are a good source of protein and other important nutrients, and one isn't necessarily healthier than the other. Canned light tuna and fresh skipjack tuna contain less mercury than canned and fresh albacore, but limits based on weight still apply. For example, a 143-pound person can safely eat about 4 ounces of albacore a week, and 13 ounces of light tuna.
6 Reasons To Eat More Sardines. 1. They’re good for you. Sardines pack an awesome nutritional punch. A single serving has around 23 grams of protein and is loaded with omega-3 fatty acids, calcium, iron and potassium, and only 200 calories. 2. They aren’t bad for you. Sardines are low on the oceanic food chain, and therefore contain low amounts of mercury, PCBs and the other toxins that accumulate in longer-living marine predators such as salmon and tuna. This makes them a particularly good choice for children and pregnant women.
Finding fresh sardines is a good reason to drop everything and call all your friends. Sardines rot faster than almost any other fish -- its all those omega-3s -- so buy a bunch and eat them the day you find them, because you never know when you'll see fresh sardines at the market again. My advice: Never freeze fresh sardines. Look for sardines that are clean-smelling and whole. Try to avoid bruised fish, and definitely avoid any fish with belly burn, a condition where the belly is broken and the guts are starting to come out.
Fish is a good source of protein and doesn’t have the high saturated fat that fatty meat products do. Fatty fish like mackerel, lake trout, herring, sardines, albacore tuna and salmon are high in two kinds of omega-3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). According to the FDA, sardines have a lower level of mercury just like tuna. 
You can also fillet fresh sardines and marinate them in salt, olive oil and lemon juice to make a Mediterranean version of ceviche. This is a common way to serve sardines in Greece, Spain and Italy. Fresh sardines are also good filleted and baked. They go well with full-flavored sauces, especially tomato sauces. Spicy, citrusy salsas also work well. But the bottom line is this: If you find truly fresh sardines, simplicity is the key. My advice: Never freeze fresh sardines. Look for sardines that are clean-smelling and whole. Try to avoid bruised fish, and definitely avoid any fish with belly burn, a condition where the belly is broken and the guts are starting to come out.
To store the fresh sardines, remove them from the store packaging, rinse them and place them in a plastic storage bag as soon as you bring them home from the market. Place in a large bowl and cover with ice cubes or ice packs to reduce the temperature of the fish. Additional information about the amount of these nutrients provided by Sardines can be found in the Food Rating System Chart. A link that takes you to the In-Depth Nutritional Profile for Sardines, featuring information over 80 nutrients, can be found under
Sardines contain a variety of vital nutrients. They’re packed with heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, and they’re a natural source of vitamin D, which is typically obtained from enriched foods. In spite of the benefits, whether canned sardines are good for you depends on one deciding factor: portion control. Even though they're low in total fat, sardines are a good source of omega-3 fatty acids. These fatty acids lower levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in your blood. They also prevent irregular heart rhythms, slow down the growth of arterial plaques and fight inflammation.
If you are purchasing fresh sardines, look for ones that smell fresh, are firm to the touch, and have bright eyes and shiny skin. Pacific sardines are featured on the Super Green List of the Monterey Bay Aquarium's Seafood Watch. Additional information about the amount of these nutrients provided by Sardines can be found in the Food Rating System Chart. A link that takes you to the In-Depth Nutritional Profile for Sardines, featuring information over 80 nutrients, can be found under