The University cannot house all the freshmen who would want to live on campus, therefore, you must be accepted by the University as early as possible so that you may apply for housing in a timely manner. First year students who do not get housing on-campus will be referred to Student Neighborhood Relations. A housing agreement received date is the date you submitted your online housing agreement. The housing agreement received date is used in determining room and roommate preferences. This date is subject to change if you request a change in your agreement type.
All new undergraduate students are required to attend an orientation session. For freshmen, orientation is a 3-day experience designed to help students and families become acclimated to the university. For transfer students, orientation is a 1-day experience with the same goal. You will have your UNT ID card made during orientation. Specific times in the orientation schedule have been created for you to have your ID made. Your first ID card is included in your university fees. Lost cards can be replaced for an additional $10.
During orientation, you will have the chance to meet with faculty and staff, meet your new classmates, connect with current students, learn about university resources, and receive academic advising in preparation for registering for classes. You will have your UNT ID card made during orientation. Specific times in the orientation schedule have been created for you to have your ID made. Your first ID card is included in your university fees. Lost cards can be replaced for an additional $10.
There is a $149.00 fee, set by the Indiana University Board of Trustees, associated with your New Student Orientation program. This fee also supports FYE services and programs throughout your first year and will be assessed on your first tuition bill after you attend NSO. New Student Orientation. Getting off to a great start at IU includes attending New Student Orientation. It’s where FYE helps you prepare for a successful first semester and year.
Finish your degree with Indiana State Online in as little as 18 months. We offer over 60 online programs. You will have your own dedicated academic advisor, online student services concierge, and access to Career Center Coaches. 
1 Staff at the Assignment Office for Campus Residences will assign you a roommate. 2  The criteria used for selection are semester standing and major. 3  An attempt is made to match first year students with first year students. 1 It is important that they do the same thing on their contract with your name and student ID number. 2  If your roommate selection is the most important aspect of your room selection choice, be sure to choose roommate as your number one preference.
If you would like to live with a roommate during fall semester who is not participating in Freshman College you must email fcse@uga.edu by April 20th with your request. Requests received afer April 18th will not be honored. All of the core academic courses offered in the Freshman College are also available throughout the academic year. Freshman College classes are small and seating in each class is limited. If you do not get your first choice during the summer, you will have the opportunity to take the class in the future.
The online Roommate Search is an easy way to find a roommate. Thousands of Ohio State University students use the online Roommate Search. The online Roommate Search is username and password protected, so you must have an OSU username and password to gain access. We suggest that any student seeking a roommate set up a roommate ad before the Roommate Fair, so that anyone that did not get your information can contact you. The next Roommate Fair will be held on Friday, July 10, 2015 from 5pm-6pm in 1000 Ohio Union. Don't forget your student ID!!
When you attend orientation, you’ll get acclimated to the university by taking tours of the campus, learning about important programs and resources, participating in informational workshops, interacting with faculty and staff, and getting to know other new students. Should your plans to attend the university change after you have attended orientation, your orientation fees (including both student and parent/family orientation programs) are non-refundable.
Choosing to live on campus comes with many benefits -- such as living in an academically-supported environment, the ability to stay connected to campus through activities that foster educational, social, and leadership development and engaging with students from a variety of cultures, backgrounds and lifestyles. 