Stinging nettle has been used for hundreds of years to treat painful muscles and joints, eczema, arthritis, gout, and anemia. Fibrous stems of mature plants can be used to make twine, fishing nets, snares and other items. Nettles were traditionally dried and fed to livestock throughout winter. When the hair tip pierces the skin, the acid makes it into the skin causing anywhere from an annoying itch or burning that can last several minutes or a couple of days. Rubbing the stings with stinging nettle root or jewelweed has been used to suppress the itch/burning sensation.
There are several species of nettles. This page only shows Stinging Nettle (Urtica dioica) and Wood Nettle (Laportea canadensis). For contrast, two similar plants are shown at the bottom that are often confused with these species: Horse Balm (Collinsonia canadensis) and False Nettle (Boehmeria cylindrica). Boil or steam the younger plants like any fresh vegetable. Boiling/steaming gets rid of the sting. Stinging Nettle (Urtica dioica). A typical Stinging Nettle plant in spring. Note the fine hairs along the stem. These are what sting when you touch them. The leaf. Flowers. These are very distinctive
–Kimberly. Stinging nettle or common nettle, Urtica dioica, is a herbaceous perennial flowering plant, native to Europe, Asia, northern Africa, and North America, and is the best-known member of the nettle genus Urtica. 
To support our efforts please see our store (books with medicinal info & subscriptions), or browse the stinging nettle products below. Stinging nettle is a large, rhizomatous perennial wild edible plant that can grow quite tall. When the hair tip pierces the skin, the acid makes it into the skin causing anywhere from an annoying itch or burning that can last several minutes or a couple of days. Rubbing the stings with stinging nettle root or jewelweed has been used to suppress the itch/burning sensation.
Stinging nettles have a flavor similar to spinach when cooked. They are rich in vitamins A, C, iron, potassium, manganese, and calcium. Young plants were harvested by Native Americans and used as a cooked plant in spring when other food plants were scarce. In some areas, they appear as early as January. After Stinging Nettles enter its flowering and seed setting stages the leaves develop gritty particles, which can irritate the urinary tract. At its peak season, stinging nettle contains up to 25% protein, dry weight, which is high for a leafy green vegetable. The young leaves are edible and make a very good potherb.
Urtica dioica, often called common nettle or stinging nettle (although not all plants of this species sting), is a herbaceous perennial flowering plant, native to Europe, Asia, northern Africa, and western North America, and is the best-known member of the nettle genus Urtica. 1 U. dioica subsp. galeopsifolia (fen nettle or stingless nettle), from Europe, does not have stinging hairs. 2  U. dioica subsp. afghanica, from southwestern and central Asia, sometimes has stinging hairs or is sometimes hairless. 3  U. dioica subsp. gansuensis, from eastern Asia (China), has
Stinging Nettle. Stinging nettle (Urtica dioica) is one of our most nutritious wild food plants. Originally from Europe, stinging nettle has naturalized throughout most of the United States. The stinging hairs that cover its leaves and stems impart a painful sting and rash that can last hours or days. Stinging nettle grows 2 to 4 feet tall and has opposite, toothed leaves that can be several inches long. There are several kinds of nettle including wood nettle (Laportea canadensis), which is native to the U.S. and has fewer stinging hairs. All nettles are edible. Stinging nettle resembles clearweed (Pilea pumila), a non-toxic but unpalatable plant, but clearweed has no stinging hairs. Urtica dioica Stinging Nettle-Schmitz Park7 years ago at Alki, Seattle, Washington, United States by brewbooks. Stinging nettle in bloom.
Tags: natural health, edible weeds, stinging nettles, nettles, allergies, arthritis, pain, diuretic, detox. Stinging nettles (Urtica diocia) may sound intimidating, but once you get past their prickly exterior this classic spring weed is packed with good stuff that offers many health benefits. 
Stinging Nettle as a Wild Edible Food and the Painful Stinging Sensation associated with it. Wild Edible Plants, The stinging Nettle. The Stinging Nettle is Not only a great Survival food and wild edible plant, but is also a painful plant if you walk into it and don’t see it. I was not sure whether to put this in the “plants to avoid” category or the “Edible Plants” category. 