Iris is a genus of 260–300 species of flowering plants with showy flowers. It takes its name from the Greek word for a rainbow, which is also the name for the Greek goddess of the rainbow, Iris. Some authors state that the name refers to the wide variety of flower colors found among the many species.
Irises usually don't change color. You may have had a yellow iris tuber among the blue irises and this year the yellow iris was a more vigorous grower and choked out the blue irises. Or the seeds from your irises may have ripened, dropped, and germinated. Iris seed does not grow true to the parent plant. 1 Plant iris in mid-to late summer. 2  Bearded irises have rhizomes (fleshy roots) that should be partially exposed, or thinly covered with soil in hot climates. 3  Plant rhizomes singly or in groups of three with the fans outermost, 1 to 2 feet apart, depending on the size.
Today, the iris is the state flower of Tennessee, and the Fleur-de-lis is the emblem for the city of New Orleans. Irises are cultivated all over the world, and they can be found naturally in Europe, the Middle East, northern Africa, Asia, and North America. Back to Flower Meanings Guide. 
1 Bearded irises must not be shaded by other plants; many do best in a special bed on their own. 2  Soil drainage is very important. 3  Loosen the soil with a tiller or garden fork to a depth of 12 to 15 inches, then mix in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost. 4  Plant iris in mid-to late summer. 1 Plant iris in mid-to late summer. 2  Bearded irises have rhizomes (fleshy roots) that should be partially exposed, or thinly covered with soil in hot climates. 3  Plant rhizomes singly or in groups of three with the fans outermost, 1 to 2 feet apart, depending on the size.
Iris pseudacorus (yellow flag, yellow iris, water flag, lever) is a species in the genus Iris, of the family Iridaceae. It is native to Europe, western Asia and northwest Africa. It is an herbaceous flowering perennial plant, growing to 100–150 centimetres (39–59 in) (or a rare 2 metres (6 ft 7 in)) tall, with erect leaves up to 90 centimetres (35 in) long and 3 centimetres (1.2 in) broad. The flowers are bright yellow, 7–10 centimetres (2.8–3.9 in) across, with the typical iris form. The fruit is a dry capsule 4–7 centimetres (1.6–2.8 in) long, containing numerous pale brown seeds
Iris pseudacorus. Yellow iris, or yellow flag iris, is a perennial aquatic plant native to Europe, western Asia and North Africa. It was first introduced to North Americain the 1800s as an ornamental plant for ponds and water gardens. The plant has since spread to many waterways, including those in parts of southern Ontario. 1 Yellow iris is the only iris in North America with entirely yellow flowers. 2  Flowers bloom between April and July at the top of stems 30 centimetres to one metre tall that grow in groups of two to 10.
When not flowering, yellow iris looks similar to the native blue flag iris (Iris versicolor). Blue flag iris is usually smaller, with leaves 10 to 80 centimetres long, stems 20 to 60 centimetres long, and purple-to-blue flowers. 1 Yellow iris is the only iris in North America with entirely yellow flowers. 2  Flowers bloom between April and July at the top of stems 30 centimetres to one metre tall that grow in groups of two to 10.
Iris is the flower of the Greek goddess Iris who is the messenger of Love. In the language of flowers Iris symbolizes eloquence. Irises are wonderful garden plants. The word Iris means rainbow. Irises come in many colors such as blue and purple, white and yellow, pink and orange, brown and red, and even black. The genus Iris has about 200 species and is native to the North Temperate regions of the world. The habitat of irises also varies a lot
Yellow flag-iris (Iris pseudacorus) is an eye-catching perennial that creates dense stands in wet areas, excluding native wetland species and threatening plant and animal diversity. Yellow flag-iris invades ditches, irrigation canals, marshes, stream and lake shorelines, and shallow ponds. 