The lymphatic system is part of the circulatory system and a vital part of the immune system, comprising a network of lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph (from Latin lympha meaning water) directionally towards the heart. Lymphocytes are concentrated in the lymph nodes. The spleen and the thymus are also lymphoid organs of the immune system. The tonsils are lymphoid organs that are also associated with the digestive system. Lymphoid tissues contain lymphocytes, and also contain other types of cells for support.
Lymphatic Drainage Therapy (LDT) is a gentle, rhythmical treatment rather than a massage, which improves the activity of the lymph vessels by mild mechanical stretches on the wall of the lymph collectors. If the lymph system is sluggish, toxins hang around in the body creating more potential for inflammation and therefore illness and weakness to invading virus’ and bacteria. Lymphatic drainage therapy has a positive effect on the following conditions: 1  Stimulation of the lymphatic system.
Lymphatic massage, also called lymphatic drainage or manual lymph drainage, is a technique developed in Germany for treatment of lymphedema, an accumulation of fluid that can occur after lymph nodes are removed during surgery, most often a mastectomy for breast cancer. Lymphatic drainage is very gentle, is not painful and doesn’t have a stimulating effect. Each session lasts from 45 to 60 minutes, and therapy usually is performed once a day four or five times a week for two to four weeks.
The lymphatic system is a system of vessels along side the blood vessels in the body. The vessels carry lymph fluid which is responsible for eliminating toxins and bacteria from the body; continually flushed out by feeding back into the circulatory system and being processed through the kidney and liver. If the lymph system is sluggish, toxins hang around in the body creating more potential for inflammation and therefore illness and weakness to invading virus’ and bacteria. Lymphatic drainage therapy has a positive effect on the following conditions: 1  Stimulation of the lymphatic system.
Lymphatic Massage – also known as manual lymphatic drainage (MLD) – is a highly specialized and gentle massage technique used to increase lymph flow and encourage the natural drainage of the lymph from the body tissues. Developed in Europe in the 1930′s by Dr. Emil and Estrid Vodder, Manual Lymph Drainage (MLD) is a safe, effective, yet gentle approach to cleansing the body’s tissues. MLD drains excess fluid from the tissues and also has a detoxifying effect.
Lymphatic drainage is the natural function of the lymphatic system, which is an essential part of immunity. If this function isn't working properly, it can cause a build-up of fluid in tissues as well as more serious medical problems like lymphagitis and lymphoma. Lymphatic System. The lymphatic system is made up of a network of thin tubes that run throughout the body called lymph vessels and oval-shaped organs called lymph nodes, which collect and filter lymph.
Lymphatic drainage therapy practitioners use their fingers in a light, feathery massage to redirect the flow of lymphatic fluid in specific areas of the body. They employ precise rhythm, pressure, and direction of massage to clear stagnant fluid from lymph nodes. 
Vincent Besnault/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Manual lymph drainage massage (also called lymphatic drainage and lymph massage) is a form of very light massage that encourages lymph flow in the body. It is particularly good for detoxification, edema, pre-and post-plastic surgery and post-liposuction. The lymphatic system is located directly beneath the skin, so the pumping, circular movements are very light. Manual lymph drainage should have a very soothing, relaxing effect. It can be used as part of a facial, or as a whole body treatment.
Problems with Lymphatic Drainage. Since the lymphatic system plays such an important part in immunity, problems with lymphatic drainage can cause very serious health conditions. When lymph vessels or nodes are damaged or missing, the fluid cannot move quickly away from an area of the body. Lymphatic System. The lymphatic system is made up of a network of thin tubes that run throughout the body called lymph vessels and oval-shaped organs called lymph nodes, which collect and filter lymph.