Range of Motion. Your knee moves through flexion and extension, with slight movement in internal and external rotation, according to Hall. Normal flexion of the knee, which is decreasing the angle of the knee, is between 120 to 150 degrees, while normal extension is between 5 to 10 degrees. If you wish to strengthen and increase the range of motion in your knee, you should first increase ankle and hip mobility before addressing the knee, Cook suggests.
Your knee primarily moves in one direction, which is the sagittal plane that involves movement in a front and back pattern. Its range of motion is determined by the range of motion of your connective tissues, muscles, tendons and ligaments that attach your upper leg to your lower leg. If you wish to strengthen and increase the range of motion in your knee, you should first increase ankle and hip mobility before addressing the knee, Cook suggests.
Internal rotation: 40 degrees Flex knee and swing lower leg away from midline. External rotation: 45 degrees Flex knee and swing lower leg toward midline. Knee Ankle: (next section) Hip: (previous section) Normal Ranges of Joint Motion: (beginning of chapter) Flexion: 130 degrees Touch calf to hamstring. Extension: 15 degrees Straighten out knee as much as possible. Internal rotation: 10 degrees Twist lower leg toward midline. Ankle Knee: (previous section) Normal Ranges of Joint Motion: (beginning of chapter) Flexion: 45 degrees Bend ankle so toes point up. Extension: 20 degrees Bend ankle so toes point down. Ulnar deviation: 30-50 degrees Bend wrist so pinky finger nears ulna. Hip Knee: (next section) Wrist: (previous section) Normal Ranges of Joint Motion: (beginning of chapter) Flexion: 110-130 degrees Flex knee and bring thigh close to abdomen.
The range of motion (ROM) of a knee is that range (in degrees) from full extension to full flexion. Take a look at the full flexion and extension of these three healthy university students. You can easily see the amount of variation between them. Note that the middle one is a woman, the outer two are men. Studies of the range of knee motion required for activities of daily living reveal further that 1  -. 93 degrees of knee flexion is required for rising from a seated position (ref 1).
Normal Motion. Range of motion is typically measured using a tool called a goniometer. Normal ROM at the knee is considered to be 0 degrees of extension (completely straight knee joint) to 135 degrees of flexion (fully bent knee joint). Most functional activities require 0 to 117 degrees of motion at the knee. Walking requires complete knee extension at heel strike and up to 60 degrees of flexion at the initiation of swing phase.
A straight leg is at 0 degrees. A flexed knee is at about 140 degrees. It is a common misconception that 0-140 degrees is a normal range of motion, but most people have some hyperextension, too, taking their ROM into negative numbers. normal ROM is usually minus 5 to 143 degrees in women normal ROM is usually minus 6 to 140 degrees in men. Studies of the range of knee motion required for activities of daily living reveal further that 1  -. 93 degrees of knee flexion is required for rising from a seated position (ref 1).
United Kingdom. Range of motion or ROM is a medical/anatomical definition not a mathematical one. The range of 180-360 degrees is not factored in, presumably because the lower leg cannot move in an entire circle! To measure degrees of flexion using the goniometer, the zero is on the ankle and the 180 on the hip. Thus full extension is 0 degrees. As the foot moves towards to hip, so the numbers go up-the right angle at the knee being (hardly surprisingly) 90 degrees, and so on
Moving the patient's knee through a short arc of motion helps identify the joint lines. Range of motion should be assessed by extending and flexing the knee as far as possible (normal range of motion: extension, zero degrees; flexion, 135 degrees). 