The octopus is a sweet and kind animal. The octopus is NOT a mean or harmful animal. It is one of the nicest animals to people. The octopus protects itself with its legs, but … they do not hurt humans. However, they do bite. It has a hooked jaw like a parrot's beak. There is only one deadly octopus and that is the Tiny Blue Ringed Octopus which lives in Australia. Like a snake it is deadly because of the venom that it produces.
Instead of blending in with the background, octopuses hide from predators by taking on the shape and color of specific objects in their environment, new research suggests. Octopuses are considered to be the master of camouflage. An octopus can change its color, pattern and texture of its skin in an instant, study researcher Noam Josef, of Ben-Gurion University in Israel, told LiveScience. 
If it must, an octopus is very strong, and its eight tentacles can be used to defend itself against smaller predators. It also has an ink sac, and will squirt ink into the eyes of its predators, allowing the octopus to escape in the confusion. 
Their bodies are designed for them to do all they can to ensure that as many of them are able to hatch as possible. The design of the body for the Octopus is one that allows them to have various ways to defend themselves. Sometimes they are captured by prey by an arm or two and that would seem like the end of the road for them. The bite from an Octopus has a very powerful venom in it. This is how they are able to paralyze their prey while they consume them. This venom is generally not harmful to humans. There is only one species that has a powerful enough venom to kill a person. That is the Blue Ring Octopus.
Although it has no teeth, an octopus can take a also chunk out of you when it bites, and most have poisonous saliva that can immobilize or even kill larger animals. Its beak, similar in shape to a parrot’s beak, is the only hard part of their body. In a battle between a shark and an octopus of the same size, bet on the octopus. It’ll win almost every time. Octopuses also have 3 hearts. | Filed Under: Animals Leave a Comment. If shooting ink isn’t enough defense to scare off a predator, an octopus can go on the offensive with its tentacles and a beak-like mouth. An octopus’s main defense is to hide by camouflaging itself and avoid being detected as an octopus.
It means eight-foot, and that also makes an octopus special among other cephalopods. Where a squid or a cuttlefish has got ten arms, an octopus has got eight. In that regards, octopuses have something in common with their nearest relatives, the argonauts, which also have got eight arms. The number of their arms is not the only thing, which separates octopuses from
Confidence votes 61. The octopus is a sweet and kind animal. The octopus is NOT a mean or harmful animal. It is one of the nicest animals to people. The octopus protects itself with its legs, but they do not hurt humans. However, they do bite. It has a hooked jaw like a parrot's beak. There is only one deadly octopus and that is the Tiny Blue Ringed Octopus which lives in Australia. Like a snake it is deadly because of the venom that it produces
With that, they end up finding creative ways to protect themselves. They will do all they can to defend themselves though. Any predator going after an Octopus better be up to a fight. That is why they generally leave the larger species alone. The bite from an Octopus has a very powerful venom in it. This is how they are able to paralyze their prey while they consume them. This venom is generally not harmful to humans. There is only one species that has a powerful enough venom to kill a person. That is the Blue Ring Octopus.