Between Oslo and the Swedish border lies this diverse and exciting region – Inner Østfold. østfold explore the pristine, nature which offers peace and, quiet as well as, canoeing bike rides and. fishing 1 Edvard Munch: Self-portrait in Front of the House Wall, 1926Photo: Munch-museet/Munch-Ellingsen-gruppen/BONO Edvard Munch and Oslo Read the stories about Oslo and the world famous painter Edvard Munch.
Ruter Service Center (formerly known as Trafikanten [31]) is the information centre for public transport in Oslo. It is situated at Jernbanetorget, just outside Oslo Central Station, by the foot of the clock tower, as well as at Aker Brygge and at Oslo Airport (Gardermoen). The inner city centre is bounded by Oslo Central Station (Oslo S) to the east, the Royal Palace (Slottet) to the west and the seafront (from Akershus fortress to Aker brygge) to the south. It is fairly compact and easily walkable.
Map: Located north of Oslo in Gardermoen, Oslo Airport is the largest of the three airports that serve the Norwegian capital. Our Oslo Airport guide provides essential contact details, as well as information pertaining to terminal facilities, transportation routes and nearby hotels. All NSB (tel: +47 815 00 888; www.nsb.no) inter-city and express trains on the Skien-Oslo-Lillehammer-Trondheim route also stop at Oslo Airport Gardermoen station. Trains run every 10 minutes during the week, and every 20 minutes on Saturdays.
Geography. Norway is situated in the western part of the Scandinavian peninsula. It extends about 1,100 mi (1,770 km) from the North Sea along the Norwegian Sea to more than 300 mi (483 km) above the Arctic Circle, the farthest north of any European country. It is slightly larger than New Mexico. Nearly 70% of Norway is uninhabitable and covered by mountains, glaciers, moors, and rivers.
Between Oslo and the Swedish border lies this diverse and exciting region – Inner Østfold. østfold explore the pristine, nature which offers peace and, quiet as well as, canoeing bike rides and. Fishing the region is full of, variety and offers nightlife and shopping as well as beautiful. Nature read more About Østfold. oestfold østfold 1 Edvard Munch: Self-portrait in Front of the House Wall, 1926Photo: Munch-museet/Munch-Ellingsen-gruppen/BONO Edvard Munch and Oslo Read the stories about Oslo and the world famous painter Edvard Munch.
- Wednesday 14 October 2015. Oslo, the Viking city, the culture city, the winter capital, the city of rolling green hills and spectacular fjords, is the capital city of Norway, aptly credited with many adjectives. The city breathes adventure with rich history pulsing through its veins. We are part of the Travelagents.com Network and one of over 50 Online City Guides-offering the best online travel deals from a choice of well known providers. Oslo.com provides a variety of information on available activities and travel services around the Oslo area.
Indre Østfold. østfold Between oslo and The swedish border lies this diverse and exciting – Region Østfold. Oestfold østfold explore the, pristine nature which offers peace, and quiet as well, as canoeing bike rides. And fishing the region is full, of variety and offers nightlife and shopping as well as. beautiful nature 1 Edvard Munch: Self-portrait in Front of the House Wall, 1926Photo: Munch-museet/Munch-Ellingsen-gruppen/BONO Edvard Munch and Oslo Read the stories about Oslo and the world famous painter Edvard Munch.
Read More... Welcome to Oslo.com! We are part of the Travelagents.com Network and one of over 50 Online City Guides-offering the best online travel deals from a choice of well known providers. Oslo.com provides a variety of information on available activities and travel services around the Oslo area.
Oslo [1] is the capital and largest city of Norway, and the third largest city of Scandinavia. Oslo is also the demographic, economic and political centre of Norway. The inner city centre is bounded by Oslo Central Station (Oslo S) to the east, the Royal Palace (Slottet) to the west and the seafront (from Akershus fortress to Aker brygge) to the south. It is fairly compact and easily walkable.