The Colorado River and its tributaries formed the canyon as the Colorado Plateau was being geological … ly uplifted. The erosion occurred fairly recently, starting around 17 million years ago, but the geologic record exposed covers around 1.8 billion years. Erosion is the moving of material from one place to another. The Grand Canyon was formed as the Colorado River cut into the gradually uplifting landscape. The Grand Canyon is the product of millions of years of erosion and weathering.
1 The roots of the ancient mountain range that now lies at the bottom of the Grand Canyon were formed about 1.7 billion years ago. 2  There is then an unconformity of about 450 million year in which the rocks are missing. 3  At 1.25 billion years ago the first sedimentary layer, the Bass Formation, was laid down. The younger rocks have already been eroded away by the forces of nature, at least in the immediate vicinity of the Grand Canyon. Some of the younger layers, like the Navajo Sandstone of which the Vermilion Cliffs and the rock of Zion National Park are composed, can be found in the region north
Grand Canyon is located on the Colorado Plateau. This geologic province is a large area in the Southwest characterized by nearly horizontal sedimentary rocks lifted 5,000 to 13,000 feet above sea level. Those rock outcrops suggest that 4,000 to 8,000 feet of sedimentary layers from the Mesozoic, also known as the age of dinosaurs, once covered the Grand Canyon area. Layers from the Cenozoic era (the age of mammals) are limited to western Grand Canyon and terraces near the river.
Rock layers formed during the Paleozoic Era are the most conspicuous in the Grand Canyon’s walls. Coastal environments and several marine incursions from the west between 550 and 250 million years ago deposited sandstone, shale and limestone layers totaling 2,400 to 5,000 feet thick. The Colorado River has carved the Grand Canyon into four plateaus of the Colorado Plateau Province. The Province is a large area in the Southwest characterized by nearly-horizontal sedimentary rocks lifted 5,000 to 13,000 feet above sea level.
The material eroded from that cliff face at least 24 million years ago, Young said; in the years since, the cliff has receded to the north, and the Grand Canyon formed as the river ran along the bottom of the cliff. The canyon isn’t 6 million years old, some scientists say, but more like 70 million years old. If this order-of-magnitude challenge to the othodoxy holds up, it would mean the Grand Canyon has been around since the days of T. rex.
Grand Canyon Geology. The Grand Canyon of the Colorado River is a world-renowned showplace of geology. Geologic studies in the park began with the work of John Strong Newberry in 1858 and continue today. The Grand Canyon’s magnificent display of layered rock reveals the region’s geologic history like no other place. Those rock outcrops suggest that 4,000 to 8,000 feet of sedimentary layers from the Mesozoic, also known as the age of dinosaurs, once covered the Grand Canyon area. Layers from the Cenozoic era (the age of mammals) are limited to western Grand Canyon and terraces near the river.
The Grand Canyon, could not have possibly been formed by the Colorado River. In the location the Grand Canyon is, it is unhill to … the river. Rivers do not run unhill. Also, the million years thing is rubbish too.. The Grand Canyon was formed as the Colorado River cut into the gradually uplifting landscape. The Grand Canyon is the product of millions of years of erosion and weathering.
Grand Canyon strata diagram. Before discussing when and how the Grand Canyon was formed, it is first important to understand where and through what geologic feature it was carved. Located in northern Arizona, the Grand Canyon has been eroded through the southern end of the Colorado Plateau. 
The specific geologic processes and timing that formed the Grand Canyon spark lively debates by geologists. The general scientific consensus, updated at a 2010 conference, holds that the Colorado River carved the Grand Canyon beginning 5 million to 6 million years ago. Credit: National Park Service. View full size image. The Grand Canyon is indeed a very big hole in the ground. It is 277 miles (446 km) long, up to 18 miles (29 km) wide and more than a mile (6,000 feet / 1,800 meters) deep. It is the result of constant erosion by the Colorado River over millions of years.