The Hepburn Act of 1906 was a bill that fortified the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) and strengthened federal regulation of railroads. Named for Rep. William Hepburn of Iowa, chairman of the House Commerce Commission, the Act passed after a series of unpopular rate increases by railroad corporations. 
The Elkins Act of 1903 was named for Senator Stephen B. Elkins of West Virginia. This piece of legislation was championed by the Pennsylvania Railroad as a way to end the practice of rebates. Rebates were refunds to businesses which shipped large quantities on the railroads, and many railroad companies disliked it. 
The Hepburn Act is a 1906 United States federal law that gave the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) the power to set maximum railroad rates and extend its jurisdiction. This led to the discontinuation of free passes to loyal shippers. By the Hepburn Act, the ICC's authority was extended to cover bridges, terminals, ferries, railroad sleeping cars, express companies and oil pipelines.
Confidence votes 565. The Hepburn Act was passed by Congress to increase the authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission over railroads and certain other types of carriers. Scholars consider the Hepburn Act the most important piece of legislation regarding railroads in the first half of the 20th century.
(October 2010). The Elkins Act is a 1903 United States federal law that amended the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887. The Act authorized the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) to impose heavy fines on railroads that offered rebates, and upon the shippers that accepted these rebates
The Elkins Act is a 1903 United States federal law that amended the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887.[1] The Elkins Act authorized the Interstate Commerce Commission to impose heavy fines on railroads that offered rebates, and upon the shippers that accepted these rebates. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. The Hepburn Act is a piece of legislation passed by the United States Legislature in 1906 whose purpose was to regulate the railroad industry. At the time, monopolistic oil companies wielded their power over the railroads and the Hepburn Act was a measure to check those companies’ growing power. 
For any railroad that resisted, the ICC's conditions would remain in effect until the outcome of legislation said otherwise. By the Hepburn Act, the ICC's authority was extended to cover bridges, terminals, ferries, railroad sleeping cars, express companies and oil pipelines.
The Hepburn Act 1906 is a United States federal law that formally gave the Interstate Commerce Commission the authority to establish maximum railroad rates. History of the Hepburn Act 1906: In 1887, the United States Congress passed the Interstate Commerce Act, which made railroads the first industry explicitly subject to federal regulations.