2. intussusception. basilar invagination a developmental deformity of the occipital bone and upper end of the cervical spine in which the latter appears to have pushed the floor of the occipital bone upward; see also platybasia. Called also basilar impression. If the invagination is extensive or involves a tumor or polyp, it may cause an intestinal obstruction, necessitating surgery. 2 surgery for repair of a hernia by replacement of the contents of the hernial sac in the abdominal cavity. General or spinal anesthesia may be used.
By Arun Pal Singh Leave a Comment. Basilar invagination is an abnormality where the skull floor is indented by the upper cervical spine. Basilar invagination is a craniocervical junction abnormality where the tip of the odontoid process projects above the foramen magnum. Primary basilar invagination is a congenital abnormality often associated with other vertebral defects like Klippel-Feil syndrome, odontoid abnormalities, atlanto-occipital fusion, and atlas hypoplasia. Primary basilar impression is found in 1% of the general population.
Basilar invagination is an uncommon condition that occurs when the upper portion of the second vertebra (C2) moves upward. This may cause compression of the spinal cord and brainstem, creating a variety of neurologic problems, including sudden death. 
Definition: Basilar invagination occurs when the top of the second vertebrae moves upward. It can cause the opening in the skull where the spinal cord passes through to the brain (the foramen magnum) to close. It also may press on the lower brainstem.
Definition of INVAGINATION. 1. : an act or process of invaginating; specifically: the formation of a gastrula by an infolding of part of the wall of the blastula. 2. : an invaginated part. Medical Definition of INVAGINATION. 1. : an act or process of invaginating: as a: the formation of a gastrula by an infolding of part of the wall of the blastula b: intestinal intussusception. 2.
Invagination is the infolding of one part within another part of a structure, a folding that creates a pocket. The term, originally used in embryology, has been adopted in other disciplines as well. 1 Invagination is the morphogenetic processes by which an embryo takes form, and is the initial step of gastrulation, the massive reorganization of the embryo from a simple spherical ball of cells, the blastula, into a multi-layered organism, with differentiated germ layers: endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm.
Basilar invagination, also called basilar impression, is a congenital or acquired craniocervical junction abnormality where the tip of the odontoid process projects above the foramen magnum. 