Aldosterone is a steroid hormone (mineralocorticoid family) produced by the outer section (zona glomerulosa) of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland. 1 Aldosterone stimulates the secretion of K + into the tubular lumen. 2  Aldosterone stimulates Na + and water reabsorption from the gut, salivary and sweat glands in exchange for K + .
Guide. An aldosterone test measures the level of aldosterone (a hormone made by the adrenal glands), in the blood. Aldosterone helps regulate sodium and potassium levels in the body. This helps control blood pressure and the balance of fluids and electrolytes in the blood. Why It Is Done. An aldosterone test is done to: 1  Measure the amount of aldosterone released into the body by the adrenal glands. 2  Check for a tumor in the adrenal glands. 3  Find the cause of high blood pressure or low blood potassium levels.
An aldosterone test measures the level of aldosterone (a hormone made by the adrenal glands), in the blood. Aldosterone helps regulate sodium and potassium levels in the body. Why It Is Done. An aldosterone test is done to: 1  Measure the amount of aldosterone released into the body by the adrenal glands. 2  Check for a tumor in the adrenal glands. 3  Find the cause of high blood pressure or low blood potassium levels.
Action of aldosterone on renal collecting tubule cells. Muto S(1). Author information: (1)Department of Nephrology, Jichi Medical School, Tochigi, Japan. Aldosterone is a type of steroid hormone that acts primarily in renal collecting ducts to stimulate reabsorption of Na+ as well as secretion of K+ and H+. It binds with intracellular receptors in the nucleus that stimulate the expression of several genes. 
250px Benjah 2006 Aldosterone 2D structure. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone which is secreted from the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal gland. It has a mineralocorticoid activity and is the most important regulator of plasma potassium. I.e. angiotensin 2 and aldosterone affect sodium, but they also affect the extra cellular fluid (ECF) volume, so only the quantity is affected, not the concentration. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) and the thirst response also work together to dilute the ECF if the concentrations of sodium is high.
Aldosterone, a steroid hormone with mineralocorticoid activity, is mainly recognized for its action on sodium reabsorption in the distal nephron of the kidney, which is mediated by the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). 
Regulation of Na + Reabsorption. The principal regulator of Na + reabsorption is the steroid hormone aldosterone, which is produced in the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal cortex. Aldosterone, like all steroid hormones, works as a transcription factor to alter gene expression in cells. 
1 (The increased potassium level works to regulate aldosterone synthesis by depolarizing the cells in the zona glomerulosa, which opens the voltage-dependent calcium channels .) The level of angiotensin II is regulated by angiotensin I, which is in turn regulated by renin, a hormone secreted in the kidneys. 1 Aldosterone stimulates the secretion of K + into the tubular lumen. 2  Aldosterone stimulates Na + and water reabsorption from the gut, salivary and sweat glands in exchange for K + .
Aldosterone is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands located just above each kidney. Aldosterone helps to control the amount of fluid in the body by affecting how much salt and water the kidney retains or excretes. The adrenal glands produce aldosterone in response to another hormone called renin. Renin is produced by specialised cells in the kidney that detect when the body is dehydrated; renin released by the kidney signals the adrenal glands to release aldosterone