1 Transurethral Needle Ablation (TUNA) of the prostate: this is a less invasive procedure than laser prostatectomy, can be performed in day surgery or as an outpatient, with fewer problems and maintains normal ejaculation. 2  Symptoms are improved after TUNA, but not quite as much as after laser prostatectomy. 
Abstract. Urethral stricture is a well-known complication after TURP. Most cases present with recurrence of lower urinary tract symptoms. In rare incidences, complete obliteration of the urethra is diagnosed. Management of such cases is challenging and usually associated with a poor outcome. The development of urethral stricture after TURP is a well-known late complication [2] . While most cases present with recurrent lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), complete obliteration of the urethra after TURP has rarely been described in the literature.
Slow urine stream or inability to urinate after greenlight laser may be an indication of urethral stricture. Often men able to urinate for a few days week so months after surgery and then there symptoms get worse. Greenlight PVP laser and Holmium laser are used for treatment of symptoms of enlarged prostate and BPH in men. Greenlight laser in general is a very safe and effective treatment option for BPH, as is Holmium laser.
1 Congenital urethral strictures (present at birth) are also considered rare. 2  Any inflammation of the urethra resulting from injury, trauma, previous surgery, or infection can cause urethral stricture. 3  Symptoms of urethral stricture can range from no symptoms at all to complete urinary retention. Urethral stricture refers to any narrowing of the urethra for any reason whether or not it actually impacts the flow of urine out of the bladder. Any inflammation of urethra can result in scarring, which then can lead to a stricture or a narrowing of the urethra. Trauma, infection, tumors, surgeries, or any other cause of scarring may lead to urethral narrowing or stricture. Mechanical narrowing of the urethra without scar formation (developmental causes or prostate enlargement) can also narrow the urethra. Urethral stricture is significantly more common in men and boys compared to women and girls
The urethra in males is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside of the body and also serves as the channel though which semen is ejaculated. The anterior urethra is the portion of the urethra from the tip of the penis to just before the prostate. The scar (stricture) is composed of dense collagen and fibroblasts (proteins that form cell-producing connective tissue) and thus contracts in all directions, shortening urethral length and narrowing the diameter of the urethra. Strictures usually do not cause symptoms until the urethra tube is below a certain size.
Symptoms. Men with strictures often note symptoms such as poor urinary flow, painful urination, retained urine, and painful ejaculation. One of the more common symptoms is urinary tract infection. If you feel you have symptoms or have been diagnosed with a uretheral stricture, the reconstructive urologists in our clinic can help you decide on solutions and treatment options for this condition. A stricture is a dense scar that occurs somewhere along the urethra. The urethra is the urinary channel that starts in the bladder, travels through the prostate, and out the penis. Urethral strictures occur in about one of 200 men.
An anterior urethral stricture is a scar of the urethral epithelium (the urethra’s outside layer of cells) and commonly extends into the underlying corpus spongiosum (a column of erectile tissue that surrounds the urethra). The scar (stricture) is composed of dense collagen and fibroblasts (proteins that form cell-producing connective tissue) and thus contracts in all directions, shortening urethral length and narrowing the diameter of the urethra. Strictures usually do not cause symptoms until the urethra tube is below a certain size.
2. A: Scar tissue can form between the bladder and urethra. The symptoms usually include a slow urinary stream, increased urinary frequency, painful urination, or urinary retention. Treatment includes dilation (stretching the tissue under anesthesia with an instrument that is passed up the urethra).