EDIT. Lucasfilm. The original idea was that they would recover [the kidnapped] Han Solo in the early part of the story and that he would then die in the middle part of the film in a raid on an Imperial base. George [Lucas] then decided he didn't want any of the principals killed. Adds 'Star Wars' producer Gary Kurtz: The original idea was that they would recover [the kidnapped] Han Solo in the early part of the story and that he would then die in the middle part of the film in a raid on an Imperial base.
Han was later part of the strike team that boarded the Anakin Solo to rescue Allana from Jacen. After the successful rescue, Han and Leia learned from Allana that Jacen was her father. The discovery that he was a grandfather came as a pleasant surprise to Han. When he was older, Han learned how to pickpocket by first practicing on a droid of Shrike's, and then being sent out into the streets. During this time, Solo was befriended by Dewlanna, a Wookiee who was serving as a cook aboard Trader's Luck, Shrike's ship.
On the run from Imperial officials, Solo became caught up with the Rebel Alliance, courtesy of Obi-Wan Kenobi, Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia Organa, whom he helped rescue from the Death Star. Solo helped Skywalker destroy the Death Star when it attacked the Rebel base at Yavin 4, where they had taken Organa. When he was older, Han learned how to pickpocket by first practicing on a droid of Shrike's, and then being sent out into the streets. During this time, Solo was befriended by Dewlanna, a Wookiee who was serving as a cook aboard Trader's Luck, Shrike's ship.
lucasfilm. George Lucas was right. It would have been a mistake to kill Han Solo in Return of the Jedi (which almost happened), and it would be a mistake to kill him in Episode VII, no matter how much Harrison Ford may want that to happen. And this holds true if they kill him off in Episode VII. I trust J.J. Abrams as a filmmaker but, I'm sorry, he will not be able to film a more iconic moment than Han telling Leia, I know.. No Star Wars fan wants to see Han Solo die -- not even dying peacefully in his sleep of old age.
Han Solo and Chewbacca during the early years of the Yuuzhan Vong War. Han was involved in two of the first battles of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. He aided in the evacuation of Sernpidal, where the Vong brought a moon down on the planet. When he was older, Han learned how to pickpocket by first practicing on a droid of Shrike's, and then being sent out into the streets. During this time, Solo was befriended by Dewlanna, a Wookiee who was serving as a cook aboard Trader's Luck, Shrike's ship.
Han Solo was a Human smuggler from the manufacturing planet Corellia who achieved galactic fame as a member of the Rebel Alliance and later the New Republic. Born on Corellia, he was orphaned at an early age and taken by the pirate Garris Shrike to serve on his crew. When he was older, Han learned how to pickpocket by first practicing on a droid of Shrike's, and then being sent out into the streets. During this time, Solo was befriended by Dewlanna, a Wookiee who was serving as a cook aboard Trader's Luck, Shrike's ship.
You all voted for it, so here it is! Why HAN SOLO needs to die in either Episode VII, VIII, or IX! Harrison Ford has wanted this for a long time, and so have I! Just watch the video to hear my opinions on why Han needs to bite the dust. SUBSCRIBE to STAR GEEK for WEEKLY Star Wars content. Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pages/StarGe...
Han Solo is a character in the original trilogy and sequel trilogy of the Star Wars universe. He is portrayed by Harrison Ford. He and his co-pilot, Chewbacca, become involved in the Rebel Alliance which opposes the Galactic Empire. Reunited with the Rebels, Solo is commissioned as a General. Along with Leia and Chewbacca, he goes to the forest moon of Endor and leads a team deactivating the force fields protecting the Empire's second Death Star, in which they are aided by the Ewoks while Luke fights the Emperor on the Death Star.
Mike Ryan of The Huffington Post published an editorial begging Disney and J.J. Abrams to not kill Han Solo in 'Star Wars: Episode 7' and in that story he brings up a few good points, most importantly that Harrison Ford wanted to kill Han Solo a long time ago. Adds 'Star Wars' producer Gary Kurtz: The original idea was that they would recover [the kidnapped] Han Solo in the early part of the story and that he would then die in the middle part of the film in a raid on an Imperial base. George [Lucas] then decided he didn't want any of the principals killed