How to Become a Paralegal or Legal Assistant. Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers may hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or specialized education and train them on the job. Paralegals and legal assistants help lawyers prepare for hearings, trials, and corporate meetings. However, their specific duties may vary depending on the size of the firm and the area of law in which the paralegal works.
A Paralegal is a person qualified through education and training to perform substantive legal work that requires knowledge of the law and procedures and who is not a qualified solicitor or barrister. 
Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree in paralegal studies, or a bachelor's degree in another field and a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or education and train them on the job. Paralegals and legal assistants help lawyers prepare for hearings, trials, and corporate meetings. However, their specific duties may vary depending on the size of the firm and the area of law in which the paralegal works.
The responsibilities differ depending on the size of the organization and the type of the law field involved. Moreover, there are paralegals professionals who work from home for corporatations and as notary public. While paralegal professionals happen to work independently most of the days, their job mainly involves with people. At times they also work with a team that includes other paralegals, lawyers, administrative assistants, etc.
The role that a paralegal has in the United States is similar to the role of a law clerk or legal assistant in Ontario. Many paralegals in Ontario work in the areas of permitted practice for paralegals and also work alongside lawyers in areas of practice that are only permitted to be practiced by lawyers. A paralegal, like a lawyer, can be employed by a law office or work freelance at a company or law office. Paralegals are not allowed to offer legal services directly to the public on their own and must perform their legal work under an attorney or law firm (except in Ontario Canada).
And if you already work in the legal field, a paralegal degree could be the most effective step to finally getting that promotion you deserve. Here is a breakdown of seven different types of paralegals to help keep you informed of your career options. Just click on each specialty for an in-depth explanation of what the job entails. Litigation is the process of legal action, so this type of paralegal works in the realm of law where any type of legal action is being taken. There is a wide variety of sub-areas within the litigation arena, and some popular ones are bankruptcy, personal injury, corporate or intellectual property.
A paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. A paralegal, like a lawyer, can be employed by a law office or work freelance at a company or law office. Paralegals are not allowed to offer legal services directly to the public on their own and must perform their legal work under an attorney or law firm (except in Ontario Canada).
£12,000 + per year. Paralegals specialise in one area of the law, carrying out a range of legal work. They are not qualified solicitors, though they can do a lot of the work that a solicitor does. This can range from administrative and legal secretarial tasks to research and provision of legal information to clients. 
The term paralegal refers to a professional who is trained in order to assist licensed lawyers of diverse legal capacities. Though the definition slightly varies, a paralegal performs the routine tasks that require knowledge of laws and legal procedures. While paralegal professionals happen to work independently most of the days, their job mainly involves with people. At times they also work with a team that includes other paralegals, lawyers, administrative assistants, etc.
Personality Types and a Paralegal Career. No matter what personality type(s) you are, there is a paralegal job that you could be happy with, and good at, as long as you carefully consider your personality when choosing what type of paralegal you want to be. If you are considering becoming a paralegal, but are not sure if it is the right career choice for you, read on to learn about the different personality types and character traits of a good, and happy, paralegal.