Male Testosterone Levels. Normal testosterone levels in males vary markedly with age. For the first few months after birth, levels range from approximately 70 to 345 ng/dL, then drop to less than 10 ng/dL until age 8 to 10, as measured at Quest Diagnostics laboratories. With the onset of puberty, levels rise gradually through the teen years to as high as 1,000 ng/dL. Normal adult values range from 250 to 1,100 ng/dL, with an individual’s testosterone level dropping slowly within this range beginning sometime after age 30.
Testosterone and Women. Testosterone levels affect women as well. However, women create lower levels and are more sensitive to androgens than men. Testosterone levels in women vary. According to the University of Rochester Medical Center, normal measurements range from 15 to 70 ng/dL. A woman’s estrogen levels drop after she enters menopause.
Testosterone levels in men are highest between the ages of 20 and 30 years. As men age there is a small, gradual drop in testosterone levels; they may drop by up to one third between 30 and 80 years of age. Some men will have a greater drop in testosterone levels as they age. This is more likely when men are obese or have other chronic (long-term) medical problems.
Normal or average testosterone levels. In general, the normal range in males is about 270 to 1070 ng/dL with an average level of 679 ng/dL. A normal male testosterone level peaks at about age 20, and then it slowly declines. Testosterone levels above or below the normal range are considered by many to be out of balance. Moreover, some researchers suggest that the healthiest men have testosterone levels between 400 - 600 ng/dL.
Testosterone is the prototypical male hormone. It’s what puts hair on your chest and muscles on your frame during puberty. Put simply, testosterone is what makes a man a man. In healthy men, normal testosterone levels generally range between 300 ng/dL and 1050 ng/dL. Unfortunately, levels decline with aging and may fall below the normal range. Read on to learn about testosterone levels by age as well as symptoms of low testosterone and testosterone replacement therapy
When determining what’s considered a normal testosterone level, it’s best to look at what the reference range is for men your age. Researchers have known for years that T levels typically drop by about 1% every year after you hit your mid-30s. If you’re 30 (or even 50), but have the same testosterone level as an 8o-year-old, diabetic man, your doc may say you’re okay, but you’re still not going to feel good. Plain and simple. What’s interesting is that for many years, the bottom number of the reference range for T levels at many medical labs was much lower.
Normal Testosterone Levels. Testosterone is the main androgen hormone in men. Although testosterone is present in males and females, its synthesis and secretion in women is very low compared to men. Testosterone is a growth promoting hormone. It is very low during childhood and then increases in puberty. Serum testosterone levels increase much more in males than in females during puberty. By early adulthood, it is around 500 ng/dL to 700 ng/dL in men, but only 30 ng/dL to 50 ng/dL in women. The serum concentration slowly declines as men age. Furthermore, not all serum testosterone is functional or bioavailabl
The normal range of testosterone levels in healthy adult males is between 280 to 1,100 nanograms per deciliter (ng/dL), reports the University of Rochester Medical Center. It’s important to determine if a low testosterone level is due to normal aging or if it’s due to a disorder. However, women create lower levels and are more sensitive to androgens than men. Testosterone levels in women vary. According to the University of Rochester Medical Center, normal measurements range from 15 to 70 ng/dL. A woman’s estrogen levels drop after she enters menopause.
So, when you see research on normal testosterone levels, it usually focuses on total testosterone. Consequently, most of the numbers in this post will be about total T levels. With that said, I do include some references to research that indicates what average and optimal free testosterone levels are. If you’re 30 (or even 50), but have the same testosterone level as an 8o-year-old, diabetic man, your doc may say you’re okay, but you’re still not going to feel good. Plain and simple. What’s interesting is that for many years, the bottom number of the reference range for T levels at many medical labs was much lower.