You will see the netflix sign out and account settings..... 28. 3. Hover your cursor to the far upper right corner or bottom lower right corner of the screen while on the Netflix app. on windows 8, and go to settings (Gear icon) tab and click on it. You will see the Netflix sign out and account settings.
But there is not an option on the app’s menu to allow you to sign out, and you may be having difficulty figuring out how. Fortunately there is a way for you to log out of the Netflix app, and it is a process that only involves a few steps. Step 3: Touch the Yes button to confirm that you want to sign out of the Netflix app. You will now be shown a Netflix sign in screen where you can enter the email address and password for a Netflix account that you want to use on the device.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. While you have the Netflix app open go to the right menu (put the arrow to the top right of the screen) and go to settings, and the click on sign out. Hope this helps. missy2240 · 2 years ago. I can not find the link to log off. I need to log out of my friends Netflix account and log onto mines. Please help. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
1. Launch Netflix. On the desktop, you should be able to see a shortcut to the Netflix application. Double-click on this icon so as to launch it. 1  Alternatively, linger the mouse cursor on the rightmost side of the desktop. 2  As you linger the cursor, a pop-up page (Windows 8 charm bar) will appear. Method 2 of 2: Logging Out of Netflix from the Website. 1. Visit the Netflix website. Type “www.netflix.com” on the address bar at the top of the browser then press Enter on your keyboard to proceed to the website.
No need to worry just hover your mouse cursor or arrow to the far upper right corner or bottom lower right corner of the screen while on the Netflix app. on windows 8, and go to settings (The one with the GEAR) tab and click on it. You will see the Netflix sign out and account settings there. Well you know the rest.................So now you ask your friend  how do I sign out  and he replies  I don't know  neither do any of them know how to sign out, oh well now you worry :(.
There is no visible sign out option in the Netflix app in Windows 8. The menu for the account is hidden on the charms bar. Press the windows key plus the C button at the same time to get the charms bar. Hit Settings and select accounts. You will then have an option to see your Netflix account. 
2. Log out of Netflix. At the top right-hand side of your home page, you’ll see a link labeled “Sign Out.” Single-click on this link and you’ll be automatically logged out of Netflix. 1  You can now close the browser by clicking the X at the top right corner of the window. Method 2 of 2: Logging Out of Netflix from the Website. 1. Visit the Netflix website. Type “www.netflix.com” on the address bar at the top of the browser then press Enter on your keyboard to proceed to the website.
If you do not sign out at the end of a session, you will not need to enter your email address and password the next time you open the Netflix app. Use the following steps to sign out of your Netflix account in the Windows 8 app: Press the Windows + C keys to display the charms bar. On the Windows 8 Start screen, in the HP apps section, click the Netflix tile. Figure: Netflix app tile. If you already have a Netflix membership, click Member sign in. Enter the email address and password for your Netflix account, and then click Sign in.
Learning how to log out of the Netflix app on an iPhone is important if you are signed into the app with a friend or family member’s account and they have asked you to stop using it, or if you had previously been using an account that is no longer active. Step 3: Touch the Yes button to confirm that you want to sign out of the Netflix app. You will now be shown a Netflix sign in screen where you can enter the email address and password for a Netflix account that you want to use on the device.
You will probably need to scroll for a couple of seconds. Step 4: Touch the Sign Out button. Step 5: Touch Yes to confirm that you actually want to sign out of Netflix on your iPad. Learn how to automatically update the apps on your iPad 2 if you are tired of having to do it manually. 