Often the term Aztec refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan (now the location of Mexico City), situated on an island in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mēxihcah Tenochcah [meːˈʃiʔkaʔ teˈnot͡ʃkaʔ] or Cōlhuah Mexihcah [ˈkoːlwaʔ meːˈʃiʔkaʔ] . In 1521 Hernan Hernán, cortes cortés along with a large Number of nahuatl speaking, indigenous Allies conquered tenochtitlan and Defeated The Aztec triple alliance under the Leadership Of Hueyi TLATOANI. moctezuma ii
Location and Land. The Maya, Inca, and Aztecs built great civilizations in Mexico and in Central and South America between 1,800 and 500 years ago. The first of these was the Maya civilization. 
The Aztec /ˈaeztɛk/ ˈæztɛk people were certain ethnic groups of Central, mexico particularly those groups who spoke The nahuatl language and who dominated large parts Of mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th. centuries In 1521 Hernan Hernán, cortes cortés along with a large Number of nahuatl speaking, indigenous Allies conquered tenochtitlan and Defeated The Aztec triple alliance under the Leadership Of Hueyi TLATOANI. moctezuma ii
The Aztec capital city was located at Tenochtitlan, tenochtitlán which is the site of the Modern mexico, city and their empire covered nearly all of the current country Of, mexico extending down into other regions Of Central america as (well see This aztec map for). details 
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization: here the capital of the Aztec Triple Alliance, the city of Tenochtitlan, was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco. In 1521 Hernan Hernán, cortes cortés along with a large Number of nahuatl speaking, indigenous Allies conquered tenochtitlan and Defeated The Aztec triple alliance under the Leadership Of Hueyi TLATOANI. moctezuma ii
The Aztecs were settled in Mexico and part of Guatemala. Their capital city was Tenochtitlan, which was in a swampy area in Lake Texcoco, but the turned it into a magnificent … city. Tenochtitlan is now Mexico City. The Aztec's where located where they where located. Mexico The Aztecs were settled in Mexico and part of Guatemala. Their capital city was Tenochtitlan, which was in a swampy area in Lake Texcoco, but the turned it into a magni … ficent city. Tenochtitlan is now Mexico City. the aztec's where located where they where located. cheez! :D. 24 people found this useful
Mexico The Aztecs were settled in Mexico and part of Guatemala. Their capital city was Tenochtitlan, which was in a swampy area in Lake Texcoco, but the turned it into a magni … ficent city. Tenochtitlan is now Mexico City. the aztec's where located where they where located. cheez! :D. 26 people found this useful. Their capital city was Tenochtitlan, which was in a swampy area in Lake Texcoco, but the turned it into a magnificent … city. Tenochtitlan is now Mexico City. The Aztec's where located where they where located. + 67 others
The Aztecs were settled in Mexico and part of Guatemala. Their capital city was Tenochtitlan, which was in a swampy area in Lake Texcoco, but the turned it into a magnificent … city. Tenochtitlan is now Mexico City. The Aztec's where located where they where located. + 67 others found this useful.
The three most dominant and advanced civilizations that developed in the Americas prior to the arrival of the Europeans were the Aztecs, the Maya, and the Inca. Aztecs. The Aztec Empire was located in central Mexico. It ruled much of the region from the 1400s until the Spanish arrived in 1519. Much of the Aztec society centered around their religion and gods. They built large pyramids as temples to their gods and went to war to capture people they could sacrifice to their gods. In 1519 Spanish conquistador Hernan Cortes arrived in Mexico. By 1521 the Spanish had conquered the Aztecs. They tore down much of the city of Tenochtitlan and built their own city on the site called Mexico City.