If your client wants to take a taxable distribution from an IRA, put it in a brokerage account, and then pay your fee with the distribution, you can certainly do so. But fee-sweeping from an IRA for expenses that don’t pertain to an IRA is inviting trouble. Instead, a payment from a retirement account for the fees of other accounts would be treated as a taxable distribution (with potential early withdrawal penalties due as well), in the same manner that using a retirement account to pay any other personal bills and expenses would be treated as a distribution.
Given that investment advisory fees can be paid from retirement accounts-as long as the fee is attributable only to the retirement account-the question remains whether a client should pay from retirement accounts when it is possible to do so. Instead, a payment from a retirement account for the fees of other accounts would be treated as a taxable distribution (with potential early withdrawal penalties due as well), in the same manner that using a retirement account to pay any other personal bills and expenses would be treated as a distribution.
I also see that investment fees paid to produce taxable income are deductible. My question is: If I pay a large brokerage firm to manage my IRA and it charges fees to the account, are these fees tax-deductible since I am taking an annuity from the account and it is included in my taxable income? -- Vince. You're right that investment fees paid to produce taxable income are tax-deductible. These expenses are miscellaneous itemized deductions subject to an overall reduction of 2 percent of adjusted gross income.
The key to deducting the IRA fees is to cut a check or use a credit card to pay the broker the annual maintenance fees. For example, if your broker charges you $150 for the IRA annually, you need to pay this to the broker from non-IRA assets for it to be deductible. The payment is not considered an additional contribution, but rather a miscellaneous itemized deduction. You're right that investment fees paid to produce taxable income are tax-deductible. These expenses are miscellaneous itemized deductions subject to an overall reduction of 2 percent of adjusted gross income.
In fact, the IRS even allows investment advisory fees to be deducted when paid on behalf of retirement accounts like IRAs and 401(k) plans. Alternatively, the IRS also allows investment advisory fees to be paid directly from a retirement account-which effectively allows the fee to be paid with 100% pre-tax dollars. Instead, a payment from a retirement account for the fees of other accounts would be treated as a taxable distribution (with potential early withdrawal penalties due as well), in the same manner that using a retirement account to pay any other personal bills and expenses would be treated as a distribution.
There is no advantage in trying to pay the entire fee from a taxable account in an attempt to boost your deductions. If you pay $2,500 in management fees, it is better to pay $1,000 from an IRA with pretax dollars than to pay for it separately to get a $500 tax deduction. For traditional IRA accounts, the fee is not considered a withdrawal and therefore is not a taxable account. The fee is considered an investment expense. Thus this fee is being paid with pretax dollars.
They can be paid from the 401(k) directly (which would be pre-tax by virtue of the account), or paid with outside dollars and deducted as a miscellaneous itemized deduction subject to the 2%-of-AGI floor. But the IRA should only pay fees attributable to itself. Instead, a payment from a retirement account for the fees of other accounts would be treated as a taxable distribution (with potential early withdrawal penalties due as well), in the same manner that using a retirement account to pay any other personal bills and expenses would be treated as a distribution.
Amount of Yearly Investment. The most that you can contribute each year to a traditional IRA account as of April 2013 is $5,500 if you are younger than 50 or $6,500 if you are 50 or older. While IRA trustee fees paid outside of the IRA account with personal funds are deductible from your income taxes, investment management fees charged directly to your IRA account are not tax deductible.
With a taxable brokerage account, you can always contribute more and pay the fees out of your pocket. You can’t with an IRA, once you pay the fee, you lose the tax advantaged status of those dollars forever. If you have to pay an $50 administrative fee, you’re automatically losing 1% each year. 1% may not seem like much, but over forty years, the difference between earning 5% and 4% is staggering. 1 They do not charge an IRA annual fee but they do charge transfer out fees and termination fees (full fee schedule). 2  E*Trade: They charge $12.99 a trade, almost 3X TradeKing, but on no-load, no-transaction-fee funds they will not charge you a transaction fee (otherwise it’s $19.99 on the other transaction fee funds).
Dear Vince, Certain IRA administrative fees, whether or not you're currently taking distributions, are deductible, but they have to be paid by the account owner's non-IRA funds. You're right that investment fees paid to produce taxable income are tax-deductible. These expenses are miscellaneous itemized deductions subject to an overall reduction of 2 percent of adjusted gross income.