Berocca is an energy-boosting supplement that comes in the form of a dissolvable tablet. You mix that tablet with water, stir, and drink it to support your physical and mental energy. The tablet primarily contains caffeine and natural guarana. The manufacturer recommends you take it daily as needed. There are also no preservatives and the supplement is gluten-free. Berocca does, however, contain aspartame as a sweetener. If you want to avoid aspartame, then Berocca is not the right supplement for you.
This is why many consumers then turn to micronutrient supplements like Berocca ® . Its unique formula contains the water-soluble B-Vitamin complex and Vitamin C, as well as the minerals calcium magnesium and zinc. All these micronutrients are known to play an important role in energy metabolism and cognitive function. Often many multivitamin supplements only target cognitive performance alone. As physical stamina and mental sharpness are highly inter-related, Berocca ® Performance has been developed to fill the dietary gap by using a formula that is specifically tailored to support both neuronal and neuromuscular function.
Meet Berocca.. . a specially tailored formula containing high dose vitamin B complex, plus other essential nutrients, which are scientifically proven to help support energy release * & mental performance **. Does two things, comes in one tube -.
Shares & Saves. Save. Berocca is a dietary supplement used to correct vitamin deficiencies to offset poor nutrition and enhance metabolism and growth. Berocca contains vitamins and minerals such as water-soluble vitamins (B complex) and fat-soluble vitamins (A, D and E). It also contains calcium, potassium, iron and zinc. Berocca multivitamins are available in a liquid or tablet form.
The two ingredients in the highest volumes are vitamins C and B. The purpose of vitamin C is several fold, with it s most famous role being to protect individuals against colds and other viruses by boosting the immune system. 1 When the body is experiencing niacin toxicity, vitamin B overdose symptoms can include rashes, damage to the liver, and digestive complications. 2  So a single berocca tablet has well over that upper intake. 3  Nowhere is this warned of, nor does it warn against giving it to children, despite the toxicity. 4  3.
Berocca ® is a dissolvable flavoured vitamin mineral supplement in the form of an effervescent tablet. Berocca ® is a unique blend of vitamins and minerals clinically proven to help improve your physical and mental abilities. A daily Berocca ® is the healthy way enabling you to be one step ahead. Ingredients. There is no need for concern, the vitamins in Berocca ® are at levels above the RDA but they are all present at levels below the Upper Safe Levels.
One Berocca ® effervescent tablet dissolved in water can be taken daily and can be customizable to your taste; take 1 tablet per day dissolved in a glass or a 250ml bottle of water every day to make a refreshing and delicious flavored effervescent drink. Ingredients. There is no need for concern, the vitamins in Berocca ® are at levels above the RDA but they are all present at levels below the Upper Safe Levels.
Berocca is a very popular dietary supplement among people constantly on the go. Especially after a big night out, this is just what the body needs to replenish its temporary stores of the water-soluble B & C group vitamins. 
Berocca® Performance is a performance multivitamin that helps improve mental performance and physical stamina. It contains a specific combination of B group vitamins and vitamin C, enhanced with added calcium, magnesium and zinc. When taken daily Berocca® is a healthy way to get more out of every day. If you’re a vegetarian, you can rest assured that Berocca® effervescent tablets do not contain animal derived ingredients. Berocca® Performance film coated tablets contain lactose which is derived from cow’s milk and may not be suitable.