Eustress is not defined by the stressor type, but rather how one perceives that stressor (e.g. a negative threat versus a positive challenge). Eustress refers to a positive response one has to a stressor, which can depend on one's current feelings of control, desirability, location, and timing of the stressor. Potential indicators of eustress may include responding to a stressor with a sense of meaning, hope, or vigor. Flow is the “ultimate eustress experience – the epitome of eustress”. Hargrove, Nelson and Cooper described eustress as being focused on a challenge, fully present and exhilarated, which almost exactly mirrors the definition of flow.
He coined the term eustress (pronounced u-stress) to stand for good or healthy stress--i.e., to times when the adaptation process resolved itself quickly--and he chose the term distress to stand for bad or unhealthy stress--i.e., to times when the adaptation response was excessive or prolonged. 
But, one of the most important things to realize about eustress is that it is not triggered by a specific set of stressors; the stressors for eustress and distress can be one and the same. Whether a stressor triggers distress or eustress is largely determined by the attitude of the person who is experiencing the stress. Our fight-or-flight response is derived from the way in which we handle stress. “Eustress” is a term which was coined by endocrinologist Hans Selye to describe types of stress which are actually good for us because they provide us with a sense of fulfillment and other positive feelings.
Eustress means beneficial stress-either psychological, physical (e.g. exercise) or biochemical/radiological (hormesis). The term was coined by endocrinologist Hans Selye, consisting of the Greek prefix eu-meaning good, and stress, literally meaning good stress. Flow is the “ultimate eustress experience – the epitome of eustress”. Hargrove, Nelson and Cooper described eustress as being focused on a challenge, fully present and exhilarated, which almost exactly mirrors the definition of flow.
But Hans Selye, a Hungarian endocrinologist, initially coined the term eustress, defining it as stress that is healthy, or gives one a feeling of fulfillment or other positive feelings.. Daniel Kirsch, Ph.D., president of the American Institute of Stress, agrees that positive aspects of stress are often overlooked. 
Eustress was originally explored in a stress model by Richard Lazarus, it is the positive cognitive response to stress that is healthy, or gives one a feeling of fulfilment or other positive feelings. Flow is the “ultimate eustress experience – the epitome of eustress”. Hargrove, Nelson and Cooper described eustress as being focused on a challenge, fully present and exhilarated, which almost exactly mirrors the definition of flow.
Yes, you can say that.'. This kind of statement might well have the father of stress research lying awake worried in his grave. Hans Selye, who laid the foundations of stress science in the 1930s, believed so strongly in good stress that he coined a word, ' eustress ,' for it. He saw stress as 'the salt of life.'.
This response can cause damage to the body, however, it is a survival mechanism that can save the person's life. This explains why prolonged stress causes such a wide variety of physical symptoms. Cox and MacKay. Cox and MacKay devised a model of stress that reflected the eustress of Hans Selye. Hans Selye was an endocrinologist, a type of specialist who treats disorders connected with glands and hormones in the body. Selye coined the word stress to refer to inappropriate physical reactions to any demand. He further divided this term into 2 types of stress, eustress and distress.he first one, problem solving, consists of managing the problem. The second, emotion-focused coping, is used to manage the negative emotions resulting from the stress. Walter Cannon. Walter B. Cannon was an American Physiologist who coined the phrase fight or flight and the word homeostasis.
The Facts: News. There are two types of stress, positive stress, sometimes called eustress, and negative stress. CreationWiki-Recent changes [en]. Hans Selye, who laid the foundations of stress science in the 1930s, believed so strongly in good stress that he coined a word, eustress, for it. This kind of statement might well have the father of stress research lying awake worried in his grave. Hans Selye, who laid the foundations of stress science in the 1930s, believed so strongly in good stress that he coined a word, ' eustress ,' for it. He saw stress as 'the salt of life.'.