Learn from an expert how to stretch out pike style to loosen up your muscles in this free fitness video on gymnastics stretches and warm ups. Part of the Video Series: Gymnastics Stretches and Warm Ups. 1  How to do a Left Split Stretch for Gymnastics. I should not see anyone's eyes when they're stretching in a pike stretch. They should be looking down. So, this is a pike stretch. You can repeat it with your toes flexed and try to lift heels off the ground so you really stretch your calf muscles.
Straddle: In a straddle a gymnasts legs are separated with neither leg being forward or backward of the other. A straddled pike is a straddle in which the hips are closed or piked to some degree. Tuck: In a tuck a gymnast is bend at the hips and the knees. Bridge: A bridge is attained by lying on your back. Place your hands on the floor by your ears and bend your legs. Push your hips towards the ceiling and arch back. Ideally a bridge should have straight legs and shoulders pushed out over the hands.
Instructions. Sit on the floor with your legs straight out in front of you. Lift your arms above your head with your palms turned inward and your fingers toward the ceiling. Point your toes toward the floor as far as you can. Make sure you hold your legs and knees straight and tight throughout the pike stretch. Stretch your hands to touch your toes. Or, keep them by your ears if you cannot reach that far. Reach as far as you can while keeping a straight back and legs. 
a gymnast is someone that is very athletic.       gymnast is a person that takes gymnastics.         -----ALAINA-----   A person willing to … put themselves in danger to do crazy stunts. They do things people wouldn't dare to try and they do them with pointed toes and love every minutes of doing it. No it is a phrase a lot of people misuse. Walleye pike are actually  members of the perch family, along with the closely related sauger,  and the yellow perch. Not related t … o true pike like muskellunge,  northern pike, and pickerel.
Prescription: 1  Lie down on your legs straight and together, and back flat on the floor. 2  Flex the hips and raise your chest up and towards your legs, without allowing the feet to come off the ground. 3  Finish in a pike position with hands by your feet and chest on your thighs. 1 Flex the hips and raise your chest up and towards your legs, without allowing the feet to come off the ground. 2  Finish in a pike position with hands by your feet and chest on your thighs.
pike 1. n. A long spear formerly used by infantry. tr.v. piked, pik·ing, pikes. To attack or pierce with a pike. [French. , from Old French, from. , to prick; see pique .]. piked adj. n, pl pike or pikes. 1. (Animals) any of several large predatory freshwater teleost fishes of the genus Esox, esp E. lucius (northern pike), having a broad flat snout, strong teeth, and an elongated body covered with small scales: family Esocidae.
Pike: In a pike a gymnast is bent only at the hips. Sit on the floor with your legs straight out in front of you. Pikes of varying degrees including where a gymnast is esentially folded in half at their hips are used in gymnastics. Planch: This is a handstand in which the body is parallel with the ground. Puck: A puck is a cross between a pike and a tuck. Bridge: A bridge is attained by lying on your back. Place your hands on the floor by your ears and bend your legs. Push your hips towards the ceiling and arch back. Ideally a bridge should have straight legs and shoulders pushed out over the hands.
Gymnastics is a sport involving the performance of exercises requiring flexibility, balance and control. Internationally, all events are governed by the Federation Fédération internationale De (GYMNASTIQUE). Fig each country has its own national governing (BODY) biw affiliated TO. fig 