Carbon is an abundant element that is necessary for life on Earth. The carbon cycle is the exchange of carbon between all of the earth’s components—the atmosphere, oceans and rivers, rocks and sediments, and living things. The processes of photosynthesis and respiration are the basis of the carbon cycle. In photosynthesis, plants use energy from the sun and carbon dioxide (CO 2) gas from the atmosphere to create carbohydrates and oxygen (O 2).
The carbon cycle. The amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is controlled by the carbon cycle. Processes that remove carbon dioxide from the air: 1  photosynthesis [photosynthesis: The chemical change that occurs in the leaves of green plants. 2  It uses light energy to convert carbon dioxide and water into glucose.
The carbon cycle moves carbon in and out of the oceans, the land  and the atmosphere. It even removes about 40% of the carbon dioxide  that burning fossil fuels (coal, oil a … nd natural gas) releases. The  remaining 60% is building up in the atmosphere and is too much for  the carbon cycle to deal with. The carbon cycle is closely related to photosynthesis.  Photosynthesis is the process by which carbon is exchanged from the  atmosphere (in the form of CO2) into the biosphe … re (in the form of  glucose).
The carbon cycle is one of the major biogeochemical cycles describing the flow of essential elements from the environent to living organisms and back to the environment again. This process is required for the building of all organic compounds and involves the participation of many of the earth's key forces. 
Decomposition. Decomposition is the largest source through which carbon is returned to the atmosphere as carbon dioxide. Decomposers are microorganisms that live mostly in the soil but also in water, and which feed on the rotting remains of plants and animals. The carbon cycle is the process in which carbon atoms are recycled over and over again on Earth. Carbon recycling takes place within Earth's biosphere and between living things and the nonliving environment.
The carbon cycle is the process in which carbon travels from the atmosphere into organisms and the Earth and then back into the atmosphere. Plants take carbon dioxide from the air and use it to make food. Animals then eat the food and carbon is stored in their bodies or released as CO2 through respiration. The carbon cycle is the process by which carbon moves from the atmosphere into the Earth and its organisms and then back again. Gain a deeper understanding of how the carbon cycle works in this lesson.
The carbon dioxide is converted into carbon compounds that make up the body of the plant, which are stored in both the aboveground parts of the plants (shoots and leaves), and the belowground parts (roots). In the next step, animals eat the plants, breath in the oxygen, and exhale carbon dioxide. Carbon is released to the atmosphere from what are called carbon sources and stored in plants, animals, rocks, and water in what are called carbon sinks.. This process occurs in a number of steps.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Decomposition is related to the carbon cycle by something is decomposed it goes into the ground and puts carbon in the ground and plants and animals need carbon. The carbon cycle is closely related to photosynthesis.  Photosynthesis is the process by which carbon is exchanged from the  atmosphere (in the form of CO2) into the biosphe … re (in the form of  glucose).