1 Eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids. 2  Omega-3 fatty acids don't affect LDL cholesterol. 3  They have other heart benefits, such as helping to increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL, or good) cholesterol, reducing your triglycerides, a type of fat in your blood, and reducing blood pressure. 
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. 
Food can affect the amounts of cholesterol in your blood. Some foods raise cholesterol. Other foods help lower cholesterol. The table below lists different foods and drinks and how they affect your total cholesterol level, your HDL (good) cholesterol, and your LDL (bad) cholesterol. If you get more exercise, your level of good HDL cholesterol may increase, which could also help to keep your levels of LDL and total cholesterol in check. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High.
It usually takes 2-4 weeks for a change in diet to start to influence cholesterol levels. However, the full effect of a change in diet may not be seen for up to 3 months. The correct answer is: 3 months. Usually, doctors suggest patients try a cholesterol-lowering diet alone for about three months. If, after three months, your LDL cholesterol is still high, you may need to do more. Your doctor may recommend more therapeutic lifestyle changes (called TLC) as your next step. TLC includes three parts: a cholesterol-lowering diet, regular physical activity, and weight management
5. Eliminate trans fats Trans fats raise LDL (bad) cholesterol, lower HDL (good) cholesterol, and raise triglycerides. 6. Understand triglycerides Triglycerides are impacted the most by your simple sugar and alcohol intake. 7. Increase dietary fiber You need 25-35 grams of dietary fiber daily, especially soluble fiber. 85% of all the cholesterol in your body is made by your liver. Only 15% comes from your diet. If you don't get it in your diet, your liver simply makes more. INFLAMMATION is the real culprit along with homocysteine amino acid from B vitamin deficiencies.
Low-fat diets were found to have very little effect on cholesterol levels. However, if you follow a low-fat diet and lose weight, you will most likely reduce your cholesterol level since weight loss lowers your LDL, total cholesterol and triglycerides and raises your HDL cholesterol. Losing just 5 to 10 percent of your weight reduces your risk of heart disease. Fasting Versus Not Fasting. LDL, the “bad” cholesterol, and triglycerides are affected by the food you’ve eaten recently. Total cholesterol and HDL, the “good” cholesterol, take longer to change. For this reason, your health care provider may ask you to fast before your cholesterol screening. The American Heart Association recommends you get your cholesterol checked every four to six years
Diet. In order to lower LDL cholesterol, reduce saturated fat in your diet and increase dietary fiber. Saturated fats increase the body’s production of LDL cholesterol. Dr. Gianos says to cut saturated fat to less than 10 grams per day, and to eat 30 grams of fiber per day, 10 grams of which should be insoluble fiber. HDL helps protect you from heart disease, so if your levels are low, your risk is higher. Diet and Exercise. Doctors say that you can lower your cholesterol levels by as much as 20 percent in three to six months, through simple dietary changes and exercise.