STICK LENGTH. The length of the hockey stick is generally the easiest to determine, but imperative for a player’s success in the game. Sticks usually come in four sizes: senior, intermediate, junior and youth. Each size normally reflects a smaller shaft circumference and a softer flex. Senior sticks are usually used by players ages 14 and up; intermediate for ages 10-15; junior for ages 7 to 12; and youth for players ages 4-8. Adult women generally use intermediate or flexible senior sticks
Have the shaft of the stick parallel to the players body, with the toe of the blade of the stick on the ground (see picture below). Average length of a hockey stick – If you are playing hockey for the first time a good starting point for the length of your stick is between the chin, and nose. Hockey skates add a few inches in height, so a stick that comes up to the players nose without skates, may only reach their chin while on skates. If you are buying a hockey stick, and you don’t have skates with you, make sure you remember to add an inch or two in length to suit your needs while on the ice.
Field hockey sticks come in a wide range of lengths, to fit any size or age player on the field. Ranging from about 28 to 38 long, field hockey stick length can drastically affect your game and your comfort on the field. 
In order to properly measure the length of a hockey stick a player should be wearing hockey skates. Hockey skates add a few inches in height, so a stick that comes up to the players nose without skates, may only reach their chin while on skates. If you are buying a hockey stick, and you don’t have skates with you, make sure you remember to add an inch or two in length to suit your needs while on the ice.
Hockey sticks come in 4 main sizes: senior (60), intermediate (57), junior (52) and youth (48), with a small amount of variance from one manufacturer to another. Hockey sticks are routinely cut down or extended (with an extender plug in the top end of the shaft) to accommodate the player's individual height. 
Shaft – The hockey stick shaft is the long length of the stick between the butt-end and the blade. Composite shafts and blades can be purchased separately mixed-and-matched to a player’s specifications as a 2-piece stick. 
I've played hockey for 12 years and have played in state teams some i know a lot about hockey!! The only time you would have a 38 stick is if you were extremely tall. I'm about 6ft tall and i use a 37 stick. Basically if the stick comes a bit below your belly button or level with your hip its a good height. 
Traditionally senior hockey sticks have been 36 inches or 1 yard long, but over the last 15 years the standard length has increased to 36.5 inches. At this point in time there is no set restriction governing the maximum length of a hockey stick but manufacturers tend not to produce many sticks of more than 38.5 inches. However some manufacturers can take special orders for lengths up to 42 inches.
Length of Hockey Sticks: Ice Hockey Sticks come in different sizes and configurations to match to every hockey player. Standard hockey stick configuration names and their range of lengths are: Extra long shafts are also available. For example, the Warrior Ak27 X-Long shaft comes 6 inches longer than the regular Warrior AK27 shaft. Hockey stick length of composite sticks can be extended by adding a butt end. Butt ends come in junior and senior sizes and come up to 8 inches long. Once they are installed, you can easily mark and cut your stick to the desired length. 
Step1 Note that hockey sticks are made of wood, graphite or a composite of wood and fiberglass. Step2 Consider that replacement will eventually become an issue. Wood sticks are much cheaper ($20 to $30, as opposed between $30 and $90), but when they wear out or break, the entire stick needs to be replaced. The idea here is to not take a senior sized stick (flex ratings between 75 and 110 with an average shaft length of 60 inches) and cut it down for a junior sized player (which I have seen done).