The woman who looked happy danced. Who looked happy is a dependent adjective clause. It is a group of words with a subject (who) and a verb (looked), and the whole clause is functioning as an adjective modifying the noun woman, which is the subject of the independent clause. 2. Adverb Clauses. An ﻿adverb clause is a dependent clause that acts as an adverb. 3. Noun Clauses. A noun clause is a dependent clause that acts as a noun. Sometimes, these are introduced by certain kinds of words called noun clause markers, and sometimes they don't have any introductory word at all. Whatever you want is fine with me.
Noun Clause. A noun clause is any clause that replaces, and functions as, a noun. It's another type of dependent clause. 1  For example, in the sentence, 'You really do not want to know the ingredients in Aunt Nancy's stew,' the noun is ingredients.
A noun clause is a dependent clause that acts as a noun. Noun clauses begin with words such as how, that, what, whatever, when, where, whether, which, whichever, who, whoever, whom, whomever, and why. Noun clauses can act as subjects, direct objects, indirect objects, predicate nominatives, or objects of a preposition. (Whoever thought of that idea is a noun clause. It contains the subject whoever and the verb thought. The clause acts as a subject in the sentence.). On weekends, we can do whatever we want. (Whatever we want is a noun clause. It contains the subject we and the verb want.
Whatever you want is a noun clause acting as the subject of the sentence. We know that whatever you want is a clause because it has a subject (you) and a verb (want). We also know that it is a subordinate clause because it does not express a complete thought. Noun clauses are subordinate clauses that act as nouns. Gee, that seemed obvious! They can perform any of the noun jobs. We'll explore them acting as subjects, direct objects, objects of the preposition, and predicate nouns. I'll show you what I mean.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A dependent clause that functions as a noun (that is, as a subject, object, or complement) within a sentence. Also known as a nominal clause. Two common types of noun clause in English are that-clauses and wh-clauses: 1  that-clause: I believe that everything happens for a reason.
In linguistics, a dependent clause (or a subordinate clause) is a clause that provides an independent clause with additional information, but which cannot stand alone as a sentence. Dependent clauses either modify the independent clause of a sentence or serve as a component of it. 
A subordinate clause (or dependent clause) is a clause that cannot stand alone as a complete sentence because it does not express a complete thought. Like all clauses, a subordinate clause has a subject and verb. Here are some examples of subordinate clauses (shaded). When a subordinate clause is used as an adjective or an adverb, it will usually be part of a complex sentence (i.e., a sentence with an independent clause and at least one subordinate clause). The link between a subordinate clause and an independent clause will often be a subordinating conjunction or a relative pronoun
Remember, a clause is a group of related words containing a subject and a verb. A clause comes in four types; independent, dependent, relative or noun clause. Every clause has at least a subject and a verb. An independent clause, also called a main clause, is a clause that can stand on its own. A noun clause is any clause that replaces, and functions as, a noun. It's another type of dependent clause. 1  For example, in the sentence, 'You really do not want to know the ingredients in Aunt Nancy's stew,' the noun is ingredients.
A clause is a group of related words containing a subject that tells readers what the sentence is about, and a verb that tells readers what the subject is doing. A clause comes in four types; independent, dependent, relative or noun clause. A noun clause is any clause that replaces, and functions as, a noun. It's another type of dependent clause. 1  For example, in the sentence, 'You really do not want to know the ingredients in Aunt Nancy's stew,' the noun is ingredients.