Q: What is a ductless heat pump?A ductless heat pump is a highly efficient zonal heating and cooling system that does not require the use of air ducts. Ductless heat pump systems consist of an outdoor compressor unit and one or more indoor air-handling units, called “heads”, linked by a refrigerant line. 
For THREE rooms the ideal thing to do is to buy a TRI zone mini split air conditioner. But usually buying ONE TRI zone unit is more expensive than buying THREE single zonal units or one dual zone and one single zone. We have a promotional low price offer from AmcorAire W/ toshiba compressor for single zone units. Go Back To Top. How long should my unit last? With proper maintenance, industry averages suggest that an air conditioner should last 12-15 years (high humidity/salt air applications may be less than that) and a gas furnace should last as long as 20 or 25 years.
A ductless heating and cooling system is a highly efficient zonal heating and cooling system that does not require the use of air ducts. Ductless systems consist of an outdoor compressor unit and one or more indoor air-handling units, called “heads”, linked by a dedicated refrigerant line. Many of the systems installed during the 1980’s are still functioning well today. The average cost of an installed ductless systems with a single indoor heating/cooling zone is between $3,000 and $5,000.
With proper maintenance and care a ductless systems should perform for over 20 years. Many of the systems installed during the 1980’s are still functioning well today. The average cost of an installed ductless systems with a single indoor heating/cooling zone is between $3,000 and $5,000. Additional heating zones and greater heating capacities will increase the cost of the system
Q: How much does a ductless heat pump cost? A: The average cost of an installed ductless heat pump with one indoor heating/cooling zone is between $3,000 and $5,000. Additional heating zones and greater heating capacities will increase the cost of the system. More than one outdoor unit may be necessary for multi-zone systems. Call Day Heating for more information on how a ductless mini split system can provide with season upon season of comfortable home heating. Salem @ 503-363-4822 and in Corvallis @ 541-452-5111.
Ductless Mini-Split Air Conditioners. A ductless mini-split air conditioner is one solution to cooling part of a house. | Photo courtesy of ©iStockphoto/LUke1138. Ductless, mini split-system air-conditioners (mini splits) have numerous potential applications in residential, commercial, and institutional buildings. 
With proper maintenance and care, Natural Resources Canada estimates an air source (includes ductless) heat pump will last 15 to 20 years. However, many of the systems installed during the 1980’s are still functioning well today, more than 20 years later. The typical cost of an installed ductless system with one heating/cooling zone ranges from $4000 to $6000. We have all-inclusive packages that start as low as $3900. Adding more capacity to the system will increase costs, as will the complexity of your specific situation.
Q: How long have ductless heat pumps been around? A: Ductless heat pumps were developed in Japan in the 1970's and have since become a preferred heating and cooling system in Asia and much of Europe. In the United States ductless heat pumps have been used in commercial applications for over 20 years. More than one outdoor unit may be necessary for multi-zone systems. Call Day Heating for more information on how a ductless mini split system can provide with season upon season of comfortable home heating. Salem @ 503-363-4822 and in Corvallis @ 541-452-5111.
It's All About the Cleaning. The average ductless mini split air conditioner, with proper care and maintenance, will have a lifespan of 12 to 15 years. If you live in an area with high humidity or salt, your system may not last quite as long. The best maintenance you can provide your system is cleaning it. Clean and change your filters. Installation in an average home will only cost around $200. If you are already paying $1,500 to $4,000 for a system, it's a small price to pay for peace of mind. The average ductless mini split air conditioner, with proper care and maintenance, will have a lifespan of 12 to 15 years.