Count the number of times a text value appears if on a different cell there's a match to one of the values in list or named range. eventually i would expect that i could have 4 columns, 1 with total count in all regions (that's easy to get) + 3 columns with how many times each application appears in each region.
Let's say you want to find out how many times particular text or a number value occurs. For example: If a range contains the number values 5, 6, 7, and 6, then the number 6 occurs two times. If a column contains Buchanan, Dodsworth, Dodsworth, and Dodsworth, then Dodsworth occurs three times. There are several ways to count how often a value occurs.
Suppose you want to find out how many times particular text or a number value occurs in a range of cells. For example: If a range contains the number values 5, 6, 7, and 6, the number 6 occurs two times. Count how often multiple text or number values occur by using functions. Use the IF and SUM functions to do this task: Assign a value of 1 to each true condition by using the IF function. Add the total, by using the SUM function
Count how often multiple text or number values occur by using functions. Use the IF and SUM functions to do this task: Assign a value of 1 to each true condition by using the IF function. Add the total, by using the SUM function. For example: If a range contains the number values 5, 6, 7, and 6, then the number 6 occurs two times. If a column contains Buchanan, Dodsworth, Dodsworth, and Dodsworth, then Dodsworth occurs three times. There are several ways to count how often a value occurs.
=COUNTIF(2:1048576,here) + COUNTIF(B1:XFD1,here). this will count the number of times here appears on the worksheet. if you'd like to use vba, this should return the expected result: I'm sure there are a handful of other ways to go about it, but hopefully this will get you started. 
count number of time a text string appears. Did a search on the forum but didn't find a similar thread. I have a very large spreadsheet and want to count the number of times a particular text string shows up in a column. I can't use autofilter due to the 1000 limit. Here's an example, Column C contains: Dan Parker John Doe Dan Smith Jill Smith So if I search on *Dan*, the function should return a count of 2
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: =COUNTIF(A1:A10,SA) will count the number of cells in the range A1 to A10 which contain the string SA. If you mean the number of times SA appears in a single cell, say A1, then you need a series of formulas to achieve this. If you're looking to find how many times SA occurs within one cell, you could try this... =LEN(A1)-LEN(SUBSTITUTE(A1,SA,1)) The formula substitutes all the occurences of SA within the text (A1) with a 1.
Follow. In this article we will learn counting how many times specific character appears in excel 2010. To return the count of specific character in a cell we need to use a combination ofthe “LEN”, “TRIM”, and “SUBSTITUTE” functions.. LEN: Returns the number of characters in a text string. Syntax of “LEN” function: =LEN (text). 