One serving of eight medium strawberries provides 160 percent of the recommended Daily Value. Potassium is an important nutrient to balance electrolytes, aid muscle contractions, and maintain a healthy blood pressure. Diets rich in potassium can lower blood pressure by buffering the effects of sodium on blood pressure. Dietary fiber has well-known health benefits such as lowering blood cholesterol and promoting a healthy digestive system. One serving, or eight medium strawberries, provides three grams of fiber, making this fruit a good source of dietary fiber. Antioxidants are key to warding off chronic diseases and promoting optimum health. Research shows that the antioxidants in strawberries are efficiently absorbed within one hour after being eaten
Blueberries are a very good source of vitamin K, vitamin C, and manganese. Blueberries are also a good source of fiber and copper. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Blueberries. When compared to other berries, blueberries are not particularly low in terms of their glycemic index (GI) value. Studies show the GI for blueberries falling somewhere in the range of 40-53, with berries like blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries repeatedly scoring closer to 30 than to 40.
A good fertility program must be used because strawberries are very susceptible to nutrient problems. Close attention to the nutrient needs of your strawberries is vital because strawberries are harvested for an extended period during the season. They require a constant source of complete nutrition in just the right amounts to ensure good yields of high quality berries. The task is made even more difficult because strawberries are also very susceptible to diseases and insect damage.
Health benefits of strawberries. Strawberry is low in calories (32 cal/100 g) and fats but rich source of health promoting phyto-nutrients, minerals, and vitamins that are essential for optimum health. Strawberries have significantly high amounts of phenolic flavonoid phyto-chemicals called anthocyanins and ellagic acid. These vitamins are acting as co-factors help the body metabolize carbohydrate, proteins and fats. Strawberries contain vitamin-A, vitamin-E and health promoting flavonoid poly phenolic antioxidants such as lutein, zea-xanthin, and beta-carotene in small amounts.
One serving of strawberries provides five percent of the Daily Value for potassium. Folate is one of the B vitamins found in various foods such as strawberries, oranges, green leafy vegetables and beans. It may prevent some types of birth defects and is especially important for women of childbearing age. Dietary fiber has well-known health benefits such as lowering blood cholesterol and promoting a healthy digestive system. One serving, or eight medium strawberries, provides three grams of fiber, making this fruit a good source of dietary fiber. Antioxidants are key to warding off chronic diseases and promoting optimum health. Research shows that the antioxidants in strawberries are efficiently absorbed within one hour after being eaten
The fruit is rich in B-complex group of vitamins. It contains very good amounts of vitamin B-6, niacin, riboflavin, pantothenic acid and folic acid. These vitamins are acting as co-factors help the body metabolize carbohydrate, proteins and fats. Strawberries contain vitamin-A, vitamin-E and health promoting flavonoid poly phenolic antioxidants such as lutein, zea-xanthin, and beta-carotene in small amounts.
Strawberries are also good sources of antioxidants and folic acid, and are excellent sources of vitamin C, which has shown to decrease risk for esophageal cancer. One cup of strawberries provides 100% of your daily recommendation of Vitamin C. Raspberries’ dark red color comes from flavonoids. 