Leptospirosis is caused by spirochaete bacteria belonging to the genus Leptospira. 21 species of Leptospira have been identified. 13 species cause disease or have been detected in human cases. Leptospira are also classified based on their serovar. About 250 pathogenic serovars of Leptospira are recognized. Leptospirosis is transmitted by the urine of an infected animal and is contagious as long as the urine is still moist. Although Leptospira has been detected in reptiles and birds, only mammals are able to transmit the bacteria to humans and other animals.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. 3  Leptospirosis isn’t a new disease – in fact, it’s ancient. Certainly, if your pet begins exhibiting symptoms of an infection, you’ll want to promptly address those symptoms with the help of your vet. By Dr. Becker. Canine leptospirosis, “lepto” for short, is an infection caused by at least four species of Leptospira bacteria, or serovars. We know there are actually over 20 different serovars in existence that could potentially infect dogs and hundreds of non-pathogenic serovars
1 Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. Certainly, if your pet begins exhibiting symptoms of an infection, you’ll want to promptly address those symptoms with the help of your vet. By Dr. Becker. Canine leptospirosis, “lepto” for short, is an infection caused by at least four species of Leptospira bacteria, or serovars. We know there are actually over 20 different serovars in existence that could potentially infect dogs and hundreds of non-pathogenic serovar
Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease that affects humans and animals. It is caused by bacteria of the genus Leptospira. In humans it causes a wide range of symptoms, and some infected persons may have no symptoms at all. Leptospirosis: Introduction. Leptospirosis: Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease that affects humans and animals. It is caused by bacteria of the genus Leptospira. In humans ... more about Leptospirosis. Leptospirosis: Bacterial infection usually caught from animal urine.
Leptospirosis in Dogs. Leptospirosis is an infection of bacterial spirochetes, which dogs acquire when subspecies of the Leptospira interrogans penetrate the skin and spread through the body by way of the bloodstream. 
Leptospirosis is a type of bacterial infection spread by animals. It's caused by a strain of bacteria called leptospira. In 90% of cases, leptospirosis only causes mild flu-like symptoms, such as a headache, chills and muscle pain. However, in some cases the infection is more severe and can cause life-threatening problems, including organ failure and internal bleeding.