1 2-8 weeks (up to 2 months) after infection, most people will have enough antibodies to test positive. 2  12 weeks (3 months) after infection, about 97% of people will have enough antibodies to test positive. The window period can be from 9 days to 3-6 months, depending on the person's body and on the HIV-test that's used. During that time, you can test HIV negative even though you're HIV infected.
Antibody testing at 4 weeks can give you a good indication of your HIV status, but you need a test at 12 weeks after the exposure to be considered HIV negative. Figure 8: Timeline for HIV infection, immune responses and window period for tests. The window period for a 4th generation antigen/antibody test is four weeks. At this time this test will detect 95% of infections (see Figure 7).
The window period. After you've been infected, it can take 2 weeks to 6 months for your body to start making HIV antibodies. This means that during this time you could have a negative HIV test, even though you have been infected and can spread the virus to others. This is commonly called the window period, or seroconversion period. 
It can be named as the first or the initial stage of HIV infection. HIV test, conducted during the window period cannot detect any traces of HIV antibodies and the result of such antibody tests, like ELISA, Rapid Test or the Western Blot, would be fallaciously negative. On an average, the window period lasts for 2 to 12 weeks. 
The window period refers to the time after infection and before seroconversion, during which markers of infection (HIV-specific antigen and antibodies) are still absent or too scarce to be detectable. Standard screening tests cannot reliably detect HIV infection until after the window period has passed. It is therefore possible to say HIV RNA becomes detectable approximately eleven days before antibodies (or that use of an HIV RNA test reduces the window period by eleven days). It is more challenging to say how many days after exposure HIV RNA is detectable, or what the total length of the window period is.
Most people develop detectable antibodies approximately 30 days after infection, although some seroconvert later. The vast majority of people (97%) have detectable antibodies by three months after HIV infection; a six-month window is extremely rare with modern antibody testing. Antibody tests may give false negative (no antibodies were detected despite the presence of HIV) results during the window period, an interval of three weeks to six months between the time of HIV infection and the production of measurable antibodies to HIV seroconversion.
Antibody tests (Rapid tests) — give a positive result based on antibodies to HIV, not the virus itself. 1  2-8 weeks (up to 2 months) after infection, most people will have enough antibodies to test positive. 2  12 weeks (3 months) after infection, about 97% of people will have enough antibodies to test positive. The window period can be from 9 days to 3-6 months, depending on the person's body and on the HIV-test that's used. During that time, you can test HIV negative even though you're HIV infected.
There's a period of time after a person is infected during which they won't test positive. This is called the “hiv window period.”. The window period can be from 9 days to 3-6 months, depending on the person's body and on the HIV-test that's used. During that time, you can test HIV negative even though you're HIV infected.
During the window period a person can be infected with HIV and infectious but have a negative HIV test. The window period for a 4th generation antigen/antibody test is four weeks. At this time this test will detect 95% of infections (see Figure 7). After a three month window period after exposure, the confirmatory test will detect more than 99.97% of infections
The window period is the time from infection until a test can detect any change. The average window period with HIV-1 antibody tests is 25 days for subtype B. Antigen testing cuts the window period to approximately 16 days and NAT (Nucleic Acid Testing) further reduces this period to 12 days. Antibody tests may give false negative (no antibodies were detected despite the presence of HIV) results during the window period, an interval of three weeks to six months between the time of HIV infection and the production of measurable antibodies to HIV seroconversion.