An asteroid’s composition is mainly determined by how close it is to the Sun. The asteroids that are nearest the Sun are mostly made of carbon, with smaller amounts of nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen, while the ones further away are made up of silicate rock. Silicates are very common on Earth and in the Solar System. 
A meteorite is a solid piece of debris from a source such as an asteroid or a comet, which originates in outer space and survives its impact with the Earth's surface. It is called a meteoroid before its impact. A meteorite's size can range from small to extremely large. More generally, a meteorite on the surface of any celestial body is a natural object that has come from outer space. Meteorites have been found on the moon and Mars. Meteorites that are recovered after being observed as they transit the atmosphere or impact the Earth are called meteorite fall.
A meteor is an asteroid or other object that burns and vaporizes upon entry into the Earth's atmosphere; meteors are commonly known as shooting stars.. If a meteor survives the plunge through the atmosphere and lands on the surface, it's known as a meteorite. Meteorites are usually categorized as iron or stony. As the name implies, iron meteorites are composed of about 90 percent iron; stony meteorites are made up of oxygen, iron, silicon, magnesium and other elements. The terms asteroid, meteor, meteorite and meteoroid get tossed around recklessly, especially when two of them threaten the Earth on the same day. Here's a quick explainer: An asteroid is a rocky object in space that's smaller than a planet — they're sometimes called minor planets or planetoids, according to NASA.
Meteors are classified into three major types known as iron, stony-iron and stony. Iron meteors are comprised of 100 percent iron and nickel. Stony-iron meteors are made up of 50 percent iron and 50 percent silicates. Stony meteors are composed of 10 to 15 percent iron and nickel with 85 to 90 percent silicates. When a comet nears the sun, it may lose rock and dust particles ejected in its tail
Quatr.us Physics Space. Meteor. Meteors or meteorites are bits of rock (like granite) and ice-usually a mixture of rock and iron and nickel but sometimes just rock or just iron-from out in space that get sucked into the gravity of the Earth and fall through our atmosphere to the ground. A meteor is the same thing as a shooting star or a falling star-they're not really falling stars, but some people call them that. Meteors look like stars as they fall because when they hit Earth's atmosphere the friction of the rock rubbing against the atmosphere causes heat and light, like a fire.
Meteor 'fireball' explodes over UK. When Meteors enter the Earth's atmosphere from outer space, the friction caused by air particles heats them so that they glow, leaving behind them a trail of gas and melted particles as they disintegrate 30 to 60 miles from the ground.
A meteoroid is a small rocky or metallic body travelling through space. Meteoroids are significantly smaller than asteroids, and range in size from small grains to 1 meter-wide objects. Objects smaller than this are classified as micrometeoroids or space dust. A meteor shower is the result of an interaction between a planet, such as Earth, and streams of debris from a comet or other source. The passage of the Earth through cosmic debris from comets and other sources is a recurring event in many cases.
If that object withstands ablation from its passage through the atmosphere as a meteor and impacts with the ground, it is then called a meteorite. Around 15,000 tonnes of meteoroids, micrometeoroids and different forms of space dust enter Earth's atmosphere each year. A meteor shower is the result of an interaction between a planet, such as Earth, and streams of debris from a comet or other source. The passage of the Earth through cosmic debris from comets and other sources is a recurring event in many cases.
A meteor is a meteoroid – or a particle broken off an asteroid or comet orbiting the Sun – that burns up as it enters the Earth's atmosphere, creating the effect of a shooting star. Meteoroids that reach the Earth's surface without disintegrating are called meteorites. When Meteors enter the Earth's atmosphere from outer space, the friction caused by air particles heats them so that they glow, leaving behind them a trail of gas and melted particles as they disintegrate 30 to 60 miles from the ground.