Waste material is removed from the blood in the nephrons of the kidney. In each nephron, the blood is forced through a ball of porous capillaries called the glomerulus. Pressure forces most of the fluid, solutes, and smaller suspended material out of the blood and into Bowman’s capsule. occurs when blood fluids leave the afferent arteriole and enter the Bowman’s capsule. occurs when blood fluids leave the glomerulus and enter the Bowman’s capsule. occurs when the filtrate passes from the nephron tubules back to the efferent arteriole.
In biological terms, ultrafiltration occurs at the barrier between the blood and the filtrate in the renal capsule or Bowman's capsule in the kidneys. The Bowman's capsule contains a dense capillary network called the glomerulus. 
Within the nephron (the functional unit of the kidneys), filtration occurs in the glomerolus. The filtered fluid is called filtrate. Reabsorption of filtrate occurs in a … few places within the nephron, however, the majority of reabsorption takes place in the proximal convoluted tube.
Within the nephron (the functional unit of the kidneys), filtration occurs in the glomerolus. The filtered fluid is called filtrate. Reabsorption of filtrate occurs in a few places within the nephron, however, the majority of reabsorption takes place in the proximal convoluted tube. It is important to mention that additional reabsorption occurs in the Loop of Henle, distal convoluted tube, and the collecting ducts as well. Reabsorption in a nephron occurs in the Loop of Henle Reabsorption has been addressed to substances which are absorbed back from the nerphrone back in to the blood(capillaries …). On other hand Secretion is the absorption of substances from blood.
Filtration is driven by the hydrostatic pressure of the blood, and causeswater and small molecules to be filtered, while blood cells and large molecules like proteins do not pass through the filter. Source [10]. In reabsorption & secretion, as the filtrate passes down the nephron most of it is reabsorbed into the blood. Believe it or not, the human kidney is capable of such a feat. The kidney is an amazing filtration device in that they can be used continuously for the duration of a human life without becoming clogged.
occurs when the filtrate passes from the peritubular capillaries back to the nephron tubules. occurs when blood fluids leave the afferent arteriole and enter the Bowman’s capsule. occurs when blood fluids leave the glomerulus and enter the Bowman’s capsule. occurs when the filtrate passes from the nephron tubules back to the efferent arteriole. occurs when the filtrate passes from the nephron tubules back to the peritubular capillaries. 3
Processes of the Kidneys. Filtration. Filtration is the mass movement of water and solutes from plasma to the renal tubule that occurs in the renal corpuscle. About 20% of the plasma volume passing through the glomerulus at any given time is filtered. This means that about 180 liters of fluid are filtered by the kidneys every day
Reabsorbtion. Occuring more commonly within the nephron system than filtration, this is a form of active transport which takes the the useful substances for the body from the tubules and places them back into the blood filled capillaries. This commonly occurs throughout the entire nephron system especially within the Glomerulous and Bowman's Capsule where water, nitrogenous wastes, glucose, amino acids, vitamins, minerals, bicarbonate ions and hormones.