Mammals give birth to live young apart from all species in the class monotremes who lay eggs. They are able to move around using their limbs. Mammals have a larger and more well developed brain than other animals. Some mammals such as humans, chimpanzees and dolphins are very intelligent. 
They are defined by certain characteristics which all mammals share, including: gland … s that produce milk, hair, three bones in the middle ear, and a neocortex in the brain. Most mammals are born live, but there are exceptions. Monotremes, including the echidna and the platypus, lay eggs. Most other mammals give birth to live young mature enough to live outside the womb (called placental mammals). There are two egg-laying mammals. The platypus and the echidna are both egg-laying mammals, or monotremes. They are still classified as mammals be … cause they feed their young on mothers' milk-a characteristic unique to mammals alone. There are just three known species of
Mammals are a particular class of animal. What makes an animal a mammal are several things. First, they must have glands that give milk. This is to feed their babies. Second, they are warm-blooded. Third, all mammals have fur or hair. Humans are mammals and so are dogs, whales, elephants, and horses. 
All mammals reproduce sexually—sperm from the male fertilizes the female’s egg. In some mammal species, males establish breeding territories, where they put on displays for the females, showing that they are healthy and strong. In others, the males fight for the right to mate. FIND OUT MORE. A group of warm-blooded animals with a bony skeleton, mammals include mice and other RODENTS, PRIMATES, such as monkeys and humans, and animals as various as hippos, deer, and cats. The 4,500 or so species include elephants, the largest creatures on land, and whales, the largest of all animals on Earth.
Placental mammals all bear live young, which are nourished before birth in the mother's uterus through a specialized embryonic organ attached to the uterus wall, the placenta. The placenta is derived from the same membranes that surround the embryos in the amniote eggs of reptiles, birds, and monotreme. mammals. 
Most mammals are born alive. There are two egg-laying mammals. The platypus and the echidna are both egg-laying mammals, or monotremes. They are still classified as mammals be … cause they feed their young on mothers' milk-a characteristic unique to mammals alone. There are just three known species of egg-laying mammals, or monotremes.
Mammals live inside the mother’s body as they develop and until they are ready to be born.) 6. How are baby mammals different from baby fish? (Baby mammals need care from their parents.) 7. If possible, the teacher may bring in a live mammal (puppy, kitten, gerbil, etc.) for the students to see. 
Some of the things that mammals have are: warm blood most young are born alive every mammal is a vertebrate (has a spine and spinal cord) mammals feed milk to there yo … ung they are covered in fur or some form of hair. There are two egg-laying mammals. The platypus and the echidna are both egg-laying mammals, or monotremes. They are still classified as mammals be … cause they feed their young on mothers' milk-a characteristic unique to mammals alone. There are just three known species of
Reproduction (Baby animals!). Another difference is the way animals give birth to their young (babies). Most baby mammals grow inside their mother until they are born. This is something that makes mammals different, because most other kinds of animals do something else... Babies growing in eggs. Reptiles usually lay eggs, and the babies then grow inside the egg until they are ready to come out.
Well, even though some baby mammals are born different ways, they all drink milk that comes from their mothers' bodies. Baby pigs, dolphins, bats and elephants all drink milk! Because the babies rely on their mother's milk to live, the mammal mommies have to care for their young. People have baby teeth or milk teeth. So do all of the other mammals! (Although I think the tooth fairy only takes human teeth...) The only exceptions are mammals like anteaters -- they don't have any teeth at all. Mammal mothers are hard workers. Baby mammals learn from their mothers.