Becoming a forensic anthropologist requires extensive education. First, candidates will need to earn a Bachelor s degree in anatomy, physiology, anthropology or biology. They will also need to secure a graduate degree in human biology or anthropology. If you ve decided that forensic anthropology is your ideal future career, then you ll need to choose from some really great forensic anthropology schools. However, this kind of education and training is not for the faint of heart.
Forensic Anthropology-If You Like Biological sciences, history, anthropology and archeology, forensic anthropology may be right for you. The major duties of this position are helping the (Medical Examiner) or coroner with the recovery and identification of human remains. You need a PhD and at least three years of experience in forensic anthropology when seeking board certification in the field. Although you may be able to work in the field with fewer credentials, having the postgraduate education makes you a more attractive candidate.
Being a forensic Anthropologist requires a great deal of educational preparation. You need a bachelor's Degree in a subject Such as Chemistry, Biology, Anatomy, Physiology, or Anthropology, and a Grauate Degree, Preferably a doctorate in anthropology or human biology. 
Graduate Degree. After completing a bachelor's degree, the aspiring forensic anthropologist should apply for admission to a graduate program in the field and pursue a Ph.D. or at least a master's degree in the field. These three subfields are physical anthropology, cultural anthropology and archaeology. Some universities' anthropology programs might include courses in linguistics, a fourth specialty. Dr. Albert cautions that a forensic anthropologist is an anthropologist first and a forensic scientist second.
The first step toward becoming a forensic anthropologist is to earn a bachelor's degree in anthropology. A strong undergraduate program should include courses in the three main subfields of anthropology, according to Dr. A. Midori Albert, a forensic anthropologist at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. These three subfields are physical anthropology, cultural anthropology and archaeology. Some universities' anthropology programs might include courses in linguistics, a fourth specialty. Dr. Albert cautions that a forensic anthropologist is an anthropologist first and a forensic scientist second.
The first step in becoming a forensic anthropologist is to earn a bachelor s degree in anthropology. Undergraduates focus on taking classes in a wide variety of areas such as archaeology, cultural and physical anthropology, and science classes such as genetics, anatomy, and chemistry. 
Training & Education. Forensic anthropology is a specialized subsection of anthropology. The first step to becoming a forensic anthropologist is obtaining a bachelor's degree in anthropology. At the undergraduate level, it is best to earn a non-specialized anthropology degree.
Requirements to Become a Forensics Anthropologist. This is a career requiring extensive education. You will need a bachelor’s degree in anatomy, biology, chemistry, physiology or anthropology as well as a graduate degree in human biology or anthropology. Though a degree at the Master’s level may qualify you to begin your investigative career, most forensic anthropologists have a Ph.D. degree
Being a forensic Anthropologist requires a great deal of educational preparation. You need a bachelor's Degree in a subject Such as Chemistry, Biology, Anatomy, Physiology, or Anthropology, and a Grauate Degree, Preferably a doctorate in anthropology or human biology. You need a PhD and at least three years of experience in forensic anthropology when seeking board certification in the field. Although you may be able to work in the field with fewer credentials, having the postgraduate education makes you a more attractive candidate.
It's a great time to be an anthropologist! A degree in anthropology opens doors to a variety of career paths by establishing highly sought skills in today's competitive job market, particulary in the fields of business, research, teaching, advocacy, and public service.