Most often, bad breath is caused by a build-up of odor-producing bacteria in your pet’s mouth. This can be a result of dental or gum disease; certain cats, in fact, may be especially prone to plaque and tartar. Diet and dermatological issues can also be contributing factors.
The symptoms are sneezing, runny eyes and/or nose and congestion, just like a cold in humans. In kittens and in some cats, however, it can have serious consequences. Because the kitten or cat may no longer be able to smell its food, it may quit eating. If it does, it could literally starve to death. You want to help your kitten or cat heal from its URI before it gets to that point. There are several things you can do, as its new parent, to prevent this. Keep them warm. If the URI shows up in a kitten, you need to keep it warm.
Other cat cold symptoms include heavy breathing through the nose, mouth breathing and sneezing. If you see blood it is due to irritation of the membrane that lines the nose. If you see discharge coming out of your nose for several hours you may need to take your cat to a veterinarian.
Make sure they can breathe. Third, just like a human child, your cat or kitten will need help to keep breathing when everything is clogged and congested. Take your softest, smallest cloth and dampen with warm water, then gently wipe its eyes, nose and mouth.
Cat Cold. Cat cold is due to a bacterial infection in the nose. Symptoms include sneezing and the discharge of mucus. Treatment starts with clearing the nose and in the case of infection the use of antibiotics.. The medical name for a cat cold is upper respiratory infection tract disease (AIURTD).
Feline Asthma. Feline asthma may be linked to allergies, but it can also develop for other reasons as well. Cats may be sensitive to certain odors, smoke or dust in the air and may have a difficult time breathing in these cases.
1. Talk to your vet about putting your cat on antibiotics. If your cat shows signs of an infection (yellow or green mucus from the nose) then talk to your veterinarian about whether or not your cat needs a prescription for antibiotics. 1  If the vet suspects the infection is viral then antibiotics may be of no help.
If the cold is causing stuffiness in the nose, your cat can be treated with infant nose drops to the tune of one drop in each nostril once daily for 3 to 4 days. Cats won't eat if they can't smell so lack of appetite is nothing to be worried about unless it lasts over 2 days.