Read More. At 5 weeks my hcg levels were 2 and I took a pregnancy test 4 weeks after my miscarriage and that was negative. It could be the hcg levels decreasing. I think in these situations it is hard to know what is happening until you get proof. Nov 18th i took a home pregnancy test and it was negative, and I got a call from my dr office to come in and do a urine pregnancy test, I went in and did and it was also negative, I then took 4 more home pregnancy test (november 20th, 22,23,25th) and all in which came up negative.
I have already had one miscarriage about 4 years ago and my recent symptoms were almost identical. However, with the previous miscarriage (appx 10 weeks along) I had a positive test. This time I suspect it was a chemical pregnancy, but the test was negative. answers from San Diego on. I haven't experienced having a miscarriage with a negative test, but my first pregnancy test with my son was negative, and I was definately pregnant. I would make a appt with your ob/gyn, or if the cramping is bad, go into urgent care. Better safe then sorry.
Pregnancy tests detect the level of the pregnancy hormone HCG in your urine. So, if you receive a positive pregnancy test that means you are pregnant and have enough hormone in your body for the test to pick it up. It is believed that up to 25% of pregnancies end in miscarriage, although many of these end within a few days of conception and do not cause any real symptoms for the woman. If you have taken a pregnancy test and it was positive then go ahead and make an appointment with your doctor for your first prenatal visit.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Negative pregnancy test, miscarriage? The week that I was expecting to start my period, I only experienced basically the equivalent of 3 drops of blood (over about 5 days). I took a home pregnancy test three days into the spotting, but I took it at night and after having drank a ton of water throughout the day. It was negative. My husband and I use condoms, but I don't know if any of the times we had sex one slipped.
The time it takes for a pregnancy test to become negative following a miscarriage depends upon the gestational age at the time of miscarriage. For any pregnancy, whether it ends at term, preterm, or in miscarriage, a urine pregnancy test should be negative after six weeks. If it is not, there are three concerns:
Not true all the time. I had a miscarriage, and 2 weeks later ovulated and became pregnant. I read that your HCG levels have to go back down to 0 for you to even ovulate. The doctors thought I was pregnant due to remnants too, but had my blood taken and at 3 weeks pregnant, they were over 250. I am also having twins!
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The pregnancy tests will read hcg levels in your urine. Hcg levels should drop after a miscarriage, usually within several days. So, it will read negative after a miscarriage. However, there is no mistaking the symptoms for miscarriage-so by the time its negative you will already know