In conclusion, the average age that a child does not need toddlers or booster seat is between 8 and 12 years of age, the average age of a child to sit at front seat is 13 years of age or above.
Ohio law requires that children ride in a car seat or booster seat until they are at least 8 years old or 4’9” tall. For best protection, older children should ride in a booster seat until the adult seat belt fits them correctly.
Does my 8-year-old still need to ride in a booster seat?... Can my son ride in a forward-facing car seat if he is over 1 year old?... What do I do if my daughter has outgrown the height restriction for her car seat, but not the weight restriction?... Should my 60 lb. child ride in the front seat or the back seat?...
Check manufacturer’s instructions for the maximum weight (30-45 lbs.).  Children should ride in a safety seat with a harness as long as possible (40-90 lbs., depending on the model).  Children who have outgrown their safety seats need a booster for proper belt fit (usually until age 10-12).
Let’s put the child safety first. Car seat belt are made for adults, it is not suitable for any children whose height is less than 4’ 9” or 149 centimeters (cm). Generally, a child will reach these heights between 8 and 12 years of age depends on how the child grows.
1 If there is not a back seat in the vehicle (e.g., a truck) or if other restrained children are in the back seat, Georgia law permits a child under the age of 8 to sit in front if restrained in the proper car seat or booster and the child weighs at least 40 pounds.
If children are not tall enough for proper belt fit, they must ride in a booster or child safety seat.  Everyone in the car must be properly buckled up. For each child under 16 who is not properly secured, parents (if in the car) or drivers can be fined more than $500 and get a point on their driving records. Most kids need to ride in a booster seat until age 10 to 12. Using a booster instead of just a belt prevents 45% of crash injuries.
If children are not tall enough for proper belt fit, they must ride in a booster or safety seat. Consequences for failing to properl y buckle up any child under 16 The parent gets the ticket if a child under 16 is not properly buckled up.  The driver gets the ticket if the parent is not in the car.