The term Eurobeat was first used in the UK when Ian Levine 's Eastbound Expressway released their single You're a Beat in recognition to the slower tempo of Hi-NRG/Italo disco music emerging from Europe. Time is the oldest Eurobeat label and has produced Italo-Disco and Eurobeat since the late 1980s; however, Time debuted on Super Eurobeat 1. The label has a huge list of big names and famous songs.
Best Eurobeat Groups/Artists. Eurobeat artists list, with photos, ranked best to worst by votes. List of good eurobeat bands includes a filter so you can sort by the groups’s label and what albums they've put out. This list of the top eurobeat bands in the world includes all musicians who have released recordings that have gotten distribution, and is an up-to-date list. 
Eurobeat is also directly related to the Japanese Para Para dance culture as it influences many song and business decisions. Time is the oldest Eurobeat label and has produced Italo-Disco and Eurobeat since the late 1980s; however, Time debuted on Super Eurobeat 1. The label has a huge list of big names and famous songs.
Eurobeat, as the name implies, is a music genre from Europe. It is a descendant of 80s italo disco (a.k.a. 80s Eurodisco). In the USA, it was sometimes marketed as Hi-NRG. In Japan, the term Eurobeat refers to a type of music that spun off from Hyper techno, hardcore/rave/techno played at an extremely fast tempo. It was popular in dance clubs in the late 1990's, and was associated with the Parapara dance styl
Eurobeat is a subgenre of Electronic Music, initially developed in the mid-late 1980s as an evolution of Hi-NRG with elements derived from Italo Disco and Synth Pop. The variant of eurobeat most people are familiar with, however, is the fast and melodic Japanese iteration of the genre, which evolved from Italian and German Italo Disco imports in the late 1980s and later became associated with the so-called Para Para dance culture.
In the United States, Eurobeat was sometimes marketed as Hi-NRG and for a short while shared this term with the very early freestyle music hits. Italo disco was often referred to as Eurobeat, probably due to the negative connotations of the word disco in the United States in the 1980s. Time is the oldest Eurobeat label and has produced Italo-Disco and Eurobeat since the late 1980s; however, Time debuted on Super Eurobeat 1. The label has a huge list of big names and famous songs.
Eurobeat began as independent developments in the UK in the 1980s, when DJs began making Electronic Music in recognition to Hi-NRG releases from mainland Europe. Later on the label was applied to any and all similarly-styled Synth Pop and dance music releases coming from European producers in the late 1980s. The variant of eurobeat most people are familiar with, however, is the fast and melodic Japanese iteration of the genre, which evolved from Italian and German Italo Disco imports in the late 1980s and later became associated with the so-called Para Para dance culture.
Eurobeat is either a form of the British dance-pop variant of Eurodisco or Hi-NRG-driven Italo disco music that both developed in 1980s. Time is the oldest Eurobeat label and has produced Italo-Disco and Eurobeat since the late 1980s; however, Time debuted on Super Eurobeat 1. The label has a huge list of big names and famous songs.