3 • LANGUAGE. Punjabi is the name of the language, as well as the people, of the Punjab region. In Pakistan, Punjabi is written using the Persian-Arabic script, which was introduced to the region during the Muslim conquests. Punjabis in India use a different script. Punjabi is spoken by two-thirds of the population of Pakistan. 
A Sikh (/siːk, sɪk/ ; Punjabi: ਸਿੱਖ sikkh [sɪkkʰ]) is a follower of Sikhism, a monotheistic dharma which originated during the 15th century in the Punjab region of South Asia. Sikh painting is a direct offshoot of the Kangra school of painting. In 1810, Ranjeet Singh (1780–1839) occupied Kangra Fort and appointed Sardar Desa Singh Majithia his governor of the Punjab hills. In 1813 the Sikh army occupied Guler State, and Raja Bhup Singh became a vassal of the Sikhs.
Punjabi-Religion and Expressive Culture. Religious Beliefs. As of the 1981 census, the population of Indian Punjab reported itself as being 37 percent Hindu, 61 percent Sikh, 1 percent Muslim, and a little more than 1 percent Christian, with smaller portions of Buddhists, Jains, and others.
), also spelt Panjabis, are an ethnic group of Indo-Aryan peoples, originating from the Punjab region, found in Pakistan and northern India. Punjab literally means the land of five waters (Persian: پنج آب panj (five) āb (waters). The Sikhs are largely concentrated in the state of Punjab forming 58% of the population with Hindus forming 38%. In Haryana, Hindus form 87% of the population with Muslims at 7% and Sikhs at 5%. In Himachal Pradesh, Hindus constitute 95% of the population with Muslims at 2% at Sikhs and Buddhists at 1% each.
A Sikh, according to Article I of the Sikh Rehat Maryada (the Sikh code of conduct), is any human being who faithfully believes in One Immortal Being; ten Gurus, from Guru Nanak to Guru Gobind Singh; Guru Granth Sahib; the teachings of the ten Gurus and the baptism bequeathed by the tenth Guru . Sikh painting is a direct offshoot of the Kangra school of painting. In 1810, Ranjeet Singh (1780–1839) occupied Kangra Fort and appointed Sardar Desa Singh Majithia his governor of the Punjab hills. In 1813 the Sikh army occupied Guler State, and Raja Bhup Singh became a vassal of the Sikhs.
INDIA: According to the 2011 Census of India, there are 27,704,236 Punjabi speakers in India. Punjabi speakers are mainly found in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttarpradesh. Punjabi is the preferred language of the Sikh people and it is also the language of their religion. The Indian state of Punjab is 60% Sikh and 37% Hindu. There is a small Muslim population still living there, especially in Malerkotla. This region covers parts of Pakistan and India, and the Punjabi language is spoken in both countries. Historically, the Punjab region has been the gateway to the Indian subcontinent for invaders who came from Greece, Central Asia, Iran and Afghanistan.
Home. The word 'Sikh' in the Punjabi language means 'disciple', Sikhs are the disciples of God who follow the writings and teachings of the Ten Sikh Gurus. The wisdom of these teachings in Sri Guru Granth Sahib are practical and universal in their appeal to all mankind
Below are five basic facts about Sikhism: 1. Belief: Sikhism is a monotheistic religion, and the basic Sikh belief is represented in the phrase Ik Onkar meaning One God.. 2. History: Sikhism was founded in the Punjab region in India in the 15th century by Guru Nanak Dev. Sikhism broke from Hinduism due, in part, to its rejection of the caste system. 
Confidence votes 3. Punjabi: ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Gurmukhi) پنجابی, (Shahmukhi) Punjabi is a term referred to the dialect of Punjab. The phrase is also used for the ethnic group of people which originate from the Punjab region. The current province/state of Punjab is situated between Pakistan and India. A referendum for self-determination has been scheduled for 2020 which may result to the independence of the Indian Punjab. Punjabi people are predominantly Sikh, Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Jain and Atheist