Mostly, @Anonymous got it right, but a few details. Idling a car for 5-10 minutes will not recharge a battery. It MIGHT replace a bit of the charge lost to starting it in the first place, but even that is iffy. The alternator in your car will need to hit, roughly, 2000 engine rpm to push a charge back to the battery. Keep the top of the battery clean, not just the post
How to charge a battery. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on. Theoretically, a fully charged battery, without taking in current from the. , should work the. for about ten minutes, or the headlights for eight hours, and a heated rear window for 12 hours. As the battery nears full discharge, the lights gradually grow dimmer and finally go out altogether.
Times vary in regards to how long it takes to charge a car battery. If you jump start your car and charge the battery through the process of using your alternator, it will likely take an hour (at least) to fully charge your battery. When using a battery charger, you can vary the time by lowering the amperage. 
Fast charge: Repeated fast charges on a battery may overcharge a battery and reduce service life. Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity. Step 3: Charge the battery at a 10-amp rate. 42 amp-hours needed by the battery divided by 10 amp charge = it will take around 4-1/2 hours to recharge the battery.
It depends on the type of batteries in the car and it depends on the type of outlet you're using to charge the thing up. Let's take a few real-world examples: - The Nissan LEAF uses lithium-ion batteries, just like your laptop and your cell phone, but it uses a lot more of them. It can charge overnight (8 hours) at a 220/240-volt Nissan charging dock that's installed in your garage. It can also charge at a 110/120-volt outlet, the kind you plug your laptop and cell phone into, but it'll take far, far longer.
It uses mains current to replace the battery's lost. through positive and negative leads that clip to the corresponding battery posts. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on. Theoretically, a fully charged battery, without taking in current from the. , should work the. for about ten minutes, or the headlights for eight hours, and a heated rear window for 12 hours. As the battery nears full discharge, the lights gradually grow dimmer and finally go out altogether.
A basic charger usually charges at around 2 amps-and so needs 24 hours to deliver the 48 amps needed to fully charge a flat, 48 amp hour battery. But there is a wide range of chargers with different charge rates on the market-from 2 to 10 amps. The higher the charge output, the faster a flat battery is recharged. Theoretically, a fully charged battery, without taking in current from the. , should work the. for about ten minutes, or the headlights for eight hours, and a heated rear window for 12 hours. As the battery nears full discharge, the lights gradually grow dimmer and finally go out altogether.
The more discharged that a battery is, then the longer it will take to recharge it. Usually it takes several hours to effectively recharge a battery. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery. Slow charging rates vary depending on the battery's type and capacity. Step 3: Charge the battery at a 10-amp rate. 42 amp-hours needed by the battery divided by 10 amp charge = it will take around 4-1/2 hours to recharge the battery.