Saturn is the sixth planet from the Sun and the second largest planet in the Solar System, after Jupiter. Named after the Roman god of agriculture, Saturn, its astronomical symbol (♄) represents the god's sickle. Saturn has a prominent ring system that consists of nine continuous main rings and three discontinuous arcs, composed mostly of ice particles with a smaller amount of rocky debris and dust. The Romans considered Saturnus the equivalent of the Greek god Cronus. The Greeks had made the outermost planet sacred to Cronus, and the Romans followed suit. (In modern Greek, the planet retains its ancient name Cronus (κρόνος: Kronos)
Jupiter symbol meanings are closely aligned with manifestation because of its situation in the solar system. It rests in the center of the orbital line of planets, with four planets preceding it (from the sun: Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars) and four planets extending past it (Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto). 
by Jerry Coffey on June 30, 2008. The symbol for Saturn is often referred to as an ancient scythe or sickle. Since Saturn was the Roman god of seed-sowing, it makes sense that the planetary symbol would be a tool used for cutting down grains. Below are a few fun and interesting facts about Saturn. Saturn is sometimes called the ”Jewel of the Solar System” because its ring system looks like a crown
The Saturn Symbol Meaning. The Saturn symbol is composed of two design elements. The top cross, which is symbolic of the culmination of matter as well as the function of a intense focus. The second component of the Saturn icon is a crescent an element which it signifies receptivity. This lower crescent portion of the Saturn symbol is also reminiscent of a scythe or sickle. This fallacy might have originated from its ancient association with Saturn. In symbolic alchemy, the Saturn symbol doubles as a symbol for lead. Philosophical alchemy explains lead is a component of transformation brought about from hardening, strengthening and staunch willpower.
Zoso. Zoso is not a word but rather, a symbol. The original symbol was used by Cardano in 1557, which he used as the magickal sigil for saturn, the planet that rules capricorn, Jimmy Page's Sign. Jimmy took this sybol and changed parts of it. The true meaning is one only known to him. In short it is an adapted occult symbol. zoso. Zoso is not a word but rather, a symbol. The original symbol was used by Cardano in 1557, which he used as the magickal sigil for saturn, the planet that rules capricorn, Jimmy Page's Sign. Jimmy took this sybol and changed parts of it.
Saturn Symbol Meaning. The Saturn symbol is composed of two design elements. The top cross, which is symbol ic of the culmination of matter as well as the function of a intense focus. 
This theme of harvesting joins with the Saturn symbol meaning of recycling old to new. Underlying mythological themes further reveal the god Saturn dethroned his father, Uranus. This dethroning symbolizes the changing of an old regime (death) to a new one (rebirth), and this ties in with Saturn's symbolism. This fallacy might have originated from its ancient association with Saturn. In symbolic alchemy, the Saturn symbol doubles as a symbol for lead. Philosophical alchemy explains lead is a component of transformation brought about from hardening, strengthening and staunch willpower.