Rule #3: Cuts to the eyebrows and lip/skin lines usually need stitches for the best cosmetic result. Since both areas have a definite line, you want the two sides of the wound to have the best chance of finding each other. Rule #4: Injuries to the mouth and lips bleed like stink, but rarely need stitches. But, these wounds usually do not get stitches. Rule #6: Wounds that are getting red, tender or are draining need to be seen by a medical provider. Rule #7: If your child is up to date on his shots, he probably won’t need another tetanus shot. But, check with your doc to be sure
If the cut goes through multiple layers of skin, it usually needs stitches to keep the wound edges in the right place while it is healing. Not to be gross, but if you can see something besides skin, like bone or yellow bits of fat, deep in the cut, then you should get stitches. 1 Attach the bandaid to one side of the wound, pull the skin and wound closed, as straight as possible, and stick down on the other side. 2  Start at one edge of the wound and work your way to the other (or the middle and work your way to the edges). 3  Don’t be afraid to use plenty of bandaids.
How to Determine if a Cut Needs Stitches. Yikes! You've got a nasty cut and it looks pretty nasty. Sometimes it's hard to tell if the open wound is in need of stitches, which help it heal properly and reduce scarring.
This one is on my top 10 FAQ list during after-hours phone calls! So, let me enlighten you so you know what to do next time your child gets a nasty cut or scrape. (And yes, it will happen to you !). Rule #1: Stitches need to be placed within 12 hours of the injury. Otherwise, closing the wound increases the risk of infection. But, these wounds usually do not get stitches. Rule #6: Wounds that are getting red, tender or are draining need to be seen by a medical provider. Rule #7: If your child is up to date on his shots, he probably won’t need another tetanus shot. But, check with your doc to be sure
Stitches are for larger cuts that a doctor believes will not heal correctly on their own. To heal correctly, the sides of a cut must be close together, so that the skin can grow back together. With large cuts, stitches help to bring the sides of a cut close together to heal properly. Whether or not you need stitches depends on how deep the cut is, and only your doctor can say for sure if your cut needs stitches. Your doctor can also tell you about any activities you shouldn't do when you have stitches. Thank you very much for checking out today's Wonder of the Day®! :-).
Once the cut is completely closed, the doctor will tie a knot at the end, so that the cut will stay closed until it heals. Sutures can be made out of different types of materials. Many sutures are made of nylon or silk thread. These stitches need to be removed by a doctor once the cut is healed. It’s an easy procedure and it doesn’t hurt. The doctor just cuts the knot and pulls the remaining pieces of thread back through the skin. Thanks to science and new technology, however, not all stitches need to be removed by a doctor. Whether or not you need stitches depends on how deep the cut is, and only your doctor can say for sure if your cut needs stitches. Your doctor can also tell you about any activities you shouldn't do when you have stitches. Thank you very much for checking out today's Wonder of the Day®! :-).
It is important to determine if your wound needs to be closed by a doctor. Your risk of infection increases the longer the wound remains open. Most wounds that require closure should be stitched, stapled, or closed with skin adhesives (also called liquid stitches) within 6 to 8 hours after the injury. Some wounds that require treatment can be closed as long as 24 hours after the injury. Wash the wound well and stop the bleeding, then pinch the sides of the wound together. If the edges of the wound come together and it looks better, you may want to consider seeing your doctor for treatment. If treatment may be needed, do not use an antiseptic or antibiotic ointment until after a doctor has examined the wound