Making the world better, one answer at a time. About one hour after cooking. After that, any food can become tainted and needs to be refrigerated to keep the bacteria in control. If it is uncooked, it needs to remain refrigerated-but will only remain fresh in this state for about 2 or 3 days at most.
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does a cooked roast of beef last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate roast beef within two hours of cooking.
Duration Cooked Meat Can be Left Out. In most food establishments, 4 hours is the maximum duration that a cooked meat is allowed to stand on the shelf when the room temperature is between 40F to 140F. At temperatures less than 40F, foods can remain bacteria free for a longer duration.
Please let me know how long you can leave freshly cooked food out at room temperature, i.e. turkey, roast beef. I was told by a friend that you must either freeze or refrigerate immediately because bacteria builds up immediately. --Annette.
1 How long does a cooked roast of beef last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; cooked roast beef should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
Most leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the fridge. If you have more food than you plan to eat within four days, freeze within two hours after it’s cooked. When you’re ready to eat your leftovers, reheat them to an internal temperature of 74 C (165 F), measured by a digital food thermometer.
Cooked pasta should not be left out at room temperature for more  than 2 to 3 hours. Any food that is left out at room temperature  after cooking can be dangerous at any tim … e past the 4 hour mark.
Cooked food sitting at room temperature is in what the USDA calls the Danger Zone, which is between 40 ° F and 140 ° F. In this range of temperatures, bacteria grows rapidly and the food can become unsafe to eat, so it should only be left out no more than two hours.