Description Review. Good location, only 15min walk to Ayia Napa where you can find all the restaurants and clubs, the beach is in front of the hotel; breakfast is vast; we asked them to call a buggie company and they were.... $84. Average price per night. The hotel is near the square and nightlife, but a little bit far from nissi beach and nissi avenue but you can take the bus down from the square and it's even very easy to find a taxi or many other alternatives for transportation. We really enjoyed the stay and loved the whole experience. ”. 1  Aphelandra Hotel Apartments.
Your Guide to Ayia Napa Hotels. Expedia.com offers a selection of 84 hotels in Ayia Napa. You are sure to find cheap deals and discount rates among them with our Best Price Guarantee. No matter what type of hotel strikes your fancy, we will let you search for your preferred one to accommodate your travel need
The name Ayia Napa is derived from a Venetian-era monastery of the same name, located in the centre of the town, next to the square that today is the clubbing centre. The word Ayia (Agia) means holy in Greek. Napa is archaic and means wooded valley or dell. Ayia Napa (officially romanised Agia Napa; Greek: αγία νάπα [. [aˈʝanːapa] ]; Turkish: Aya Napa) is a resort at the far eastern end of the southern coast of Cyprus.
AO Ayia Napa (Greek: αγία νάπα) is a Cypriot football club from the town of Ayia Napa. Club's official name is Athlitikos Omilos Ayias Napas (Athletic Club of Ayia Napa). The biggest achievements of Ayia Napa FC's history was in season 2005–06 after it finished 3rd in Cyprus Second Division and was promoted to the Cypriot First Division also in the 2014-2015 season it avoided relegation for the first time in its history.
Ayia Napa Monastery is the best known landmark of the Ayia Napa area. It has a charm that represents a time when Ayia Napa was a sleepy fishing village. Ayia Napa (officially romanised Agia Napa; Greek: αγία νάπα [. [aˈʝanːapa] ]; Turkish: Aya Napa) is a resort at the far eastern end of the southern coast of Cyprus.
Ayia Napa used to be a tiny, peaceful, fishing village. Not any more-Cyprus has embraced club culture and the island now actively encourages groups to come here and party hard in what is always a destination with a good, friendly vibe, and lots of like-minded lads and classy ladies. LADS HOLIDAYS IN Ayia Napa. If you and your mates want a lads holiday destination that is a cut above many other resorts, then Ayia Napa on the island of Cyprus ‚ has been giving groups of lads exactly what they want for the last few years.
However, there is more to holidays in Ayia Napa than just the bars and nightclubs, and you don’t have to be a young clubber to enjoy yourself, either. Package holidays in Ayia Napa are suitable for families, with plenty to see and do for everyone. There is no getting away from the fact that Ayia Napa is a party town. With dozens of bars and clubs, it has some of the best nightlife in Europe. There is also plenty to do during the day. The beaches are beautifully maintained and consist of soft golden sands and the waters are warm. 
Ayia Napa is located on the coast of south eastern Cyprus, south of Famagusta town near Cape Greco. The first people are coming to live here around 1790 from Thessaloniki, Greece. The oldest building in the town is the Ayia Napa monastery which is build around 1500. The name “Ayia Napa” means “Holy wooded valley”. Very popular thing in Ayia Napa is hiring a moped or buggy, all you need is your driving license. One of the things which has to be done is visit the Water World Waterpark. This is great experience for both young party makers and families.
The Rio Napa in Ayia Napa is a fantastic location for the town, it even has it's own nightclub on site the 'River Reggae'. LADS HOLIDAYS IN Ayia Napa. If you and your mates want a lads holiday destination that is a cut above many other resorts, then Ayia Napa on the island of Cyprus ‚ has been giving groups of lads exactly what they want for the last few years.