Table of dielectric constants. When a dielectric is placed between charged plates, the polarization of the medium produces an electric field opposing the field of the charges on the plate. The dielectric constant k is defined to reflect the amount of reduction of effective electric field as shown below. The presence of the dielectric decreases the electric field produced by a given charge density. The factor k by which the effective field is decreased by the polarization of the dielectric is called the dielectric constant of the material.
A dielectric material (dielectric for short) is an electrical insulator that can be polarized by an applied electric field. A dielectric resonator oscillator (DRO) is an electronic component that exhibits resonance of the polarization response for a narrow range of frequencies, generally in the microwave band. It consists of a puck of ceramic that has a large dielectric constant and a low dissipation factor.
Part of the Electronics glossary: The dielectric constant is the ratio of the permittivity of a substance to the permittivity of free space. It is an expression of the extent to which a material concentrates electric flux, and is the electrical equivalent of relative magnetic permeability. 
Part of the Electronics glossary: A dielectric material is a substance that is a poor conductor of electricity, but an efficient supporter of electrostatic field s. Distilled water is a fair dielectric. A vacuum is an exceptionally efficient dielectric. An important property of a dielectric is its ability to support an electrostatic field while dissipating minimal energy in the form of heat. The lower the dielectric loss (the proportion of energy lost as heat), the more effective is a dielectric material
Dielectric testing is a evaluation process performed by applying a voltage to an electrical component that exceeds its normal operating voltage. The purpose of the test is to determine if a component’s insulation is adequate enough to protect the user from electric shock. 
The theoretical dielectric strength of a material is an intrinsic property of the bulk material and is independent of the configuration of the material or the electrodes with which the field is applied. 1 For a specific configuration of dielectric material and electrodes, the minimum applied electric field (i.e., the applied voltage divided by electrode separation distance) that results in breakdown.
Dielectric grease is a non-conductive, silicone-based grease that's designed to seal out moisture and prevent corrosion on electrical connectors. It also disrupts the flow of electrical current, which makes it good for lubricating and sealing the rubber parts of electrical connectors. Uses. Dielectric grease is widely used as a sealant for spark plugs in gasoline or diesel engines, as well as on the gaskets of multi-pin connectors in the electrical systems of vehicles and boats. When used with spark plugs, it's applied to the rubber part of the plug wire.
In physics, dielectric relaxation refers to the relaxation response of a dielectric medium to an external, oscillating electric field. This relaxation is often described in terms of permittivity as a function of frequency, which can, for ideal systems, be described by the Debye equation. A dielectric resonator oscillator (DRO) is an electronic component that exhibits resonance of the polarization response for a narrow range of frequencies, generally in the microwave band. It consists of a puck of ceramic that has a large dielectric constant and a low dissipation factor.