The replication fork results from the work of the helicases. Helicases are enzymes that are used by living organisms to separate the strands of nucleic acids, and in this case, the double-stranded DNA. Helicases do so by breaking the hydrogen bonds that hold the two strands together.
A helicase is an enzyme that unzips joined strands of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA). It usually moves in one direction down a double-stranded DNA molecule or self-bound RNA molecule, breaking the hydrogen bonds between the complementary nucleotide base pairs.
To break the bonds, helicases use the energy stored in a molecule called ATP, which serves as the energy currency of cells. DNA helicases also function in other cellular processes where double-stranded DNA must be separated, including DNA repair and transcription.
Helicase. Definition. noun, plural: helicases. An enzyme that utilizes energy from nucleoside triphosphate (e.g. ATP) hydrolysis in order to unwind the two annealed nucleic acid strands (e.g. DNA). Supplement. DNA is a helical, double-stranded molecule that bears the genetic code.
DNA helicase unzip, or separate, a strand of DNA at  positions called origins. This means that the hydrogen bonds  between complementary base pairs are removed (DNA is dou … ble  stranded!). When they separate double-stranded DNA into single  strands, it allows each strand to be copied (replication).
During DNA replication, DNA helicases unwind DNA at positions called origins where synthesis will be initiated. DNA helicase continues to unwind the DNA forming a structure called the replication fork, which is named for the forked appearance of the two strands of DNA as they are unzipped apart.
Helicases are enzymes that bind and may even remodel nucleic acid or nucleic acid protein complexes. There are DNA and RNA helicases. DNA helicases are essential during DNA replication because they separate double-stranded DNA into single strands allowing each strand to be copied.
DNA helicase unzip, or separate, a strand of DNA at positions  called origins. This means that the hydrogen bonds between  complementary base pairs are removed (DNA is dou … ble stranded!).  When they separate double-stranded DNA into single strands, it  allows each strand to be copied (replication).