In 2009, at the age of ten, he was signed to EMI Music Spain and, in December of that year, its self-titled debut album, Abraham Mateo, was released in Spain. He received the Revelation Award at Spain 's National Music Competition for kids when he was just nine years old. For over four years, Mateo performed regularly at the television show Menuda Noche on the Canal Sur TV of Andalucia.
BEGINNINGS. Abraham Mateo was born to Antonio Mateo and Susana Chamorro. He has an older brother, Tony, who also plays music. Abraham was born into a family with musical roots. His grandpa has been active as tenor soloist with a church choir for over 50 years while his mother sings Boleros and Spanish music. MUSIC CAREER. Since his first appearances in Menuda Noche, a friend of Mateo's family posted in YouTube videos of his performances. Early 2009, when he was ten, he signed a contract with EMI Music Spain and released on 4 December of the same year his debut album, recorded in Madrid, under the title Abraham Mateo.
Abraham Mateo was born to Antonio Mateo and Susana Chamorro. He has an older brother, Tony, who also plays music. Abraham was born into a family with musical roots. MUSIC CAREER. Since his first appearances in Menuda Noche, a friend of Mateo's family posted in YouTube videos of his performances. Early 2009, when he was ten, he signed a contract with EMI Music Spain and released on 4 December of the same year his debut album, recorded in Madrid, under the title Abraham Mateo.
Abraham Mateo was born on 25 August 1998 in San Fernando, Cadiz, cádiz the younger child Of Antonio, mateo a construction worker and security, guard And Susana, chamorro a. Housewife he has an older, Brother, tony who also sings and plays. music He received the Revelation Award at Spain 's National Music Competition for kids when he was just nine years old. For over four years, Mateo performed regularly at the television show Menuda Noche on the Canal Sur TV of Andalucia.
Mateo was discovered in 2009, when he was ten, by executives of EMI Music Spain, who happened across his performances in the television show Menuda Noche on the Canal Sur TV of Andalucia, Spain. His self-titled debut album, Abraham Mateo, was released in Spain in December 2009. MUSIC CAREER. Since his first appearances in Menuda Noche, a friend of Mateo's family posted in YouTube videos of his performances. Early 2009, when he was ten, he signed a contract with EMI Music Spain and released on 4 December of the same year his debut album, recorded in Madrid, under the title Abraham Mateo.
Abraham was discovered in 2009, when he was ten, by producers of the record label EMI Music Spain, who happened across Abraham's videos in Youtube and his multiple performances in the television show Menuda Noche on the Canal Sur TV of Andalucia, Spain. His self-titled debut album, Abraham Mateo, was…. 
Abraham Mateo was born on 25 August 1998 in San Fernando, Cadiz, cádiz the younger child Of Antonio, mateo a construction worker and security, guard And Susana, chamorro a. housewife He received the Revelation Award at Spain 's National Music Competition for kids when he was just nine years old. For over four years, Mateo performed regularly at the television show Menuda Noche on the Canal Sur TV of Andalucia.
Abraham Mateo Chamorro (born 25 August 1998) is a Spanish pop singer, songwriter and actor, who is currently signed to the record label Sony Music Spain. He received the Revelation Award at Spain 's National Music Competition for kids when he was just nine years old. For over four years, Mateo performed regularly at the television show Menuda Noche on the Canal Sur TV of Andalucia.