To boldly go where no man has gone before. The infinitive is to go. It is split with the adverb boldly. The problem of the split infinitive comes up only when the infinitive appears with the preposition to and an accompanying adverb or adverbial phrase. If you put these adverbial words between the to and the verb, you have split the infinitive. 
An infinitive is the uninflected form of a verb along with to —for example, to walk, to inflect, to split. A split infinitive is created by placing an adverb or adverbial phrase between the to and the verb—for example, to boldly go, to casually walk, to gently push. When to avoid split infinitives. When moving the adverb to the end of a phrase doesn’t cause confusion or change the sentence’s meaning, it’s a good idea to keep the infinitive intact—for example: He urged me to casually walk up and say hello.
A split infinitive is a grammatical construction in the English language where a word or phrase, usually an adverb or adverbial phrase, occurs between the marker “to” and the bare infinitive (uninflected) form of the verb. 
Answer: The so-called split infinitive is a construction in which one or more words come between the particle to and the verb--as in  to boldly go where no man has gone before.. And there's nothing wrong with it. Until the 1800s, writers had been casually splitting infinitives for centuries. 1 - Don't split an infinitive if the result is an inelegant sentence. - 2  Do split infinitives to avoid awkward wording, to preserve a natural rhythm, and especially to achieve the intended emphasis and meaning..
Definition: A construction in which one or more words come between the infinitive marker to and the verb (as in  to boldly go where no man has gone before). A split infinitive is sometimes regarded as a type of tmesis. I think the evidence is conclusive enough, says editor Norman Lewis: it is perfectly correct to consciously split an infinitive whenever such an act increases the strength or clarity of your sentence (Word Power Made Easy, 1991).
Infinitives split by multi-word phrases (compound split infinitives) and those split by pronouns are demonstrably less usual than the straightforward example of an infinitive split by an adverb. Likewise, split infinitives are far more common in speech and informal writing than in academic writing. Usually, it is the interrupting adverb or adverbial phrase which comes between to and the verb. A well-known example occurs in the opening sequence of the Star Trek television series: to boldly go where no man has gone before; the adverb boldly splits the infinitive to go.
In the English language, a split infinitive or cleft infinitive is a grammatical construction in which a word or phrase divides the to and the bare infinitive of the to form of the infinitive verb. Usually, it is the interrupting adverb or adverbial phrase which comes between to and the verb. A well-known example occurs in the opening sequence of the Star Trek television series: to boldly go where no man has gone before; the adverb boldly splits the infinitive to go.
An infinitive is the basic form of a verb. In many, if not most, languages, the infinitive is one word. In English, however, the infinitive is made up of two words. Here, for example, are some French, Spanish, and Latin infinitives and their English equivalents: French: aller (to go) courir (to run) ecrire (écrire to). write 
Notice how the to part of the infinitive is separated from the base form of the verb by another word. In other words, a word or phrase comes between the to and the base form. Now, let's change these examples so that they are not split infinitives: 1  to leave quickly. 2  to want always. 3  to excel easily. 4  not to fail a class. 
Search. A split infinitive occurs when a word or phrase (usually an adverb) sits between the infinitive marker to and the base form of a verb. For example (split infinitive shaded and adverb in bold): A split infinitive is not an error. 