The nerve impulse causes the release of acetylcholine from the motor end plate. This causes the depolarization of the membrane of the adjacent muscle cell. Depolarization trig … gers the release of calcium ions from the sarcoplasmic reticulum inside the muscle cell. It is the firing of a nerve which sends an electrical signal down  the axons of that nerve. The message propagates by the movement of  Sodium (Na) and Potassium (K) ions in … and out of the axon  wall/sheath.
The Action Potential [back to top]. The resting potential tells us about what happens when a neurone is at rest. An action potential occurs when a neurone sends information down an axon. This involves an explosion of electrical activity, where the nerve and muscle cells resting membrane potential changes. If the depolarisation is not great enough to reach the threshold, then an action potential (and hence an impulse) will not be produced. This is called the all or nothing law. This means that the ion channels are either open or closed; there is no half-way position.
1 An action potential is initiated by receptor cells that cause sodium channels to open. 2  An action potential can only occur if the depolarisation of the membrane reaches the threshold point. 3  This is the all or nothing law. If the depolarisation is not great enough to reach the threshold, then an action potential (and hence an impulse) will not be produced. This is called the all or nothing law. This means that the ion channels are either open or closed; there is no half-way position.
As an action potential travels down the axon, there is a change in polarity across the membrane. The Na + and K + gated ion channels open and close as the membrane reaches the threshold potential, in response to a signal from another neuron. At the beginning of the action potential, the Na + channels open and Na + moves into the axon, causing depolarization. The action potential generated at the axon hillock propagates as a wave along the axon. The currents flowing inwards at a point on the axon during an action potential spread out along the axon, and depolarize the adjacent sections of its membrane.
In beta cells of the pancreas, they provoke release of insulin. Action potentials in neurons are also known as  nerve impulses  or spikes, and the temporal sequence of action potentials generated by a neuron is called its  spike train . The action potential generated at the axon hillock propagates as a wave along the axon. The currents flowing inwards at a point on the axon during an action potential spread out along the axon, and depolarize the adjacent sections of its membrane.
Neurons can respond to stimuli and conduct impulses because a membrane potential is established across the cell membrane. In other words, there is an unequal distribution of ions (charged atoms) on the two sides of a nerve cell membrane. Refractory periods. Impulse conduction-an impulse is simply the movement of action potentials along a nerve cell. Action potentials are localized (only affect a small area of nerve cell membrane). So, when one occurs, only a small area of membrane depolarizes (or 'reverses' potential).
Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). Refractory periods. Impulse conduction-an impulse is simply the movement of action potentials along a nerve cell. Action potentials are localized (only affect a small area of nerve cell membrane). So, when one occurs, only a small area of membrane depolarizes (or 'reverses' potential).
The action potential only occurs if the stimulus causes enough sodium ions enter the cell to change the membrane potential to a certain threshold level. At the threshold, sodium gates open in the membrane and allow a sudden flood of sodium ions to enter the cell. If the depolarisation is not great enough to reach the threshold, then an action potential (and hence an impulse) will not be produced. This is called the all or nothing law. This means that the ion channels are either open or closed; there is no half-way position.
A nerve impulse begins when an individual neuron receives a stimulus that enables the action potential threshold to be reached (around -50mv). The stimulus is specific for the neural receptor. In other words, a light receptor is stimulated by a particular quantity of light energy. It is the firing of a nerve which sends an electrical signal down  the axons of that nerve. The message propagates by the movement of  Sodium (Na) and Potassium (K) ions in … and out of the axon  wall/sheath.
The action along an axon of a neuron is an interchange of Sodium and Potassium ions, which propagates the impulse via the action potential.   note:I don't think Potassium is involved between the nerve cells as indicated below in the original answer. 