A complete bathroom resurface usually takes 2 to 3 days depending on the scope of work and will usually cost between $2,000 and $3,000 incl. gst depending on the condition and size of the bathroom. A site inspection by an applicator is required in order to provide recommendations and a firm cost. Pedestal Basins and Vanity Tops (when completed on site at the same time as a bath) will usually cost between $330 and $440 incl. gst. Small basins $200-$250 incl. gst. Price is subject to inspection, as there can be repair issues which cost extra.
Bathroom resurfacing is an inexpensive substitute for major bathroom renovation. Generally, resurfacing is done to a bathroom with no major structural flaws and doesn’t involve electrical or plumbing. However, if your bathroom is decrepit, leaky or poorly ventilated, then a simple resurfacing won’t make these problems go away. Resurfacing a bathroom usually includes doing surface work to any or all of the following: bathtubs, shower bases, sinks, countertops, toilets, and wall and floor tiles.
Reglazing your tub can give your entire bathroom a fresh look. If you want to spruce up a tired bathroom without breaking the bank, consider reglazing. Also known as refinishing or resurfacing, the process costs much less than replacing the tub. You can change the color to update the bath. Once the tub is reglazed, it should look like new, retaining its glossy appearance for about 10 years. Tub technicians fill in any cracks and chips.
Tile Resurfacing Average Costs. The actual cost to resurface bathroom tiles depends on your location, the company hired, the amount of tile to be resurfaced, the condition of the tile, and other factors. 1  Bathroom tile refinishing costs $5 to $10 per square foot. 
Tile refinishing, also known as tile reglazing, on an average-sized bathroom floor, will cost around $1000 when done by a professional. Doing it yourself could be as cheap as $300…around $75 for a kit and $200 for the tiles and other materials. However, if your bathroom is decrepit, leaky or poorly ventilated, then a simple resurfacing won’t make these problems go away. Resurfacing a bathroom usually includes doing surface work to any or all of the following: bathtubs, shower bases, sinks, countertops, toilets, and wall and floor tiles.
It shouldn’t cost you much more than $500 to resurface the countertops in your bathroom because countertop space in most bathrooms is small. If yours is larger than average, the price will increase accordingly. In general, resurfacing is 70% to 80% cheaper than buying new countertops. However, if your bathroom is decrepit, leaky or poorly ventilated, then a simple resurfacing won’t make these problems go away. Resurfacing a bathroom usually includes doing surface work to any or all of the following: bathtubs, shower bases, sinks, countertops, toilets, and wall and floor tiles.
Sometimes referred to as 'antique' or 'free-standing' bathtubs, original claw-foot baths are much sought after by those wishing to retain the 'heritage' look in their bathroom. Resurfacing a paddock tub in poor condition will cost between $1,500 and $2,000 incl. gst depending on size and condition. The feet will cost extra if required in solid brass or with a baked epoxy 'metal' finish. Pedestal Basins and Vanity Tops (when completed on site at the same time as a bath) will usually cost between $330 and $440 incl. gst. Small basins $200-$250 incl. gst. Price is subject to inspection, as there can be repair issues which cost extra.
Also, this does not seem to be an industry-wide complaint. Cost also varies, but most homeowners appear to be spending around $550 for the service. Some homeowners say that they have paid $250-$300 for bathtub refinishing, but these also tend to be the homeowners complaining about the poor quality. 
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Refinish Bathtub! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Refinishing Bathtubs project. For a basic 1 refinishing project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Bathtub ranges between $412.59 - $959.35 per refinishing. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
1 Some companies advertise refinishing for as low as $150-$250, but (unless you live in a relatively low-cost area of the country) before using a low bidder check to be sure they will include all the necessary steps and are using quality materials, because a poorly-done reglazing job may quickly start to peel and wear. Shopping for refinishing a bathtub: 1  Reglazing or refinishing a bathtub is usually an option if the surrounding surfaces still look good, and the tub is still in relatively good condition. 2  Reglazing a bathtub is usually done in one day, typically in about 5-6 hours.