Aspen Foods is recalling nearly 2 million pounds of raw, frozen chicken products over concerns they might be contaminated with salmonella. Also, keep raw poultry away from other food that will not be cooked. Use one cutting board for raw poultry and a separate one for fresh produce and cooked foods.. A full list of recalled brands is below: 1  Acclaim.
Listeria monocytogenes were discovered in such brands. Deli Originals is a spinach dip brand that is made by Victorian Company Yumis Quality Foods for Aldi stores. Only the spinach dip was affected by the recall. According to Aldi’s spokeswoman, listeria contamination was discovered during normal testing processes conducted by an independent laboratory for the company. The test results were presented to the Food Standards Australia New Zealand
While ALDI is committed to providing only the best quality at the lowest prices, our top priority is the safety of you and your family. From developing stringent standards to working with trusted manufacturers on product quality and testing, every measure possible is taken to fulfill that promise. Our recall response. For your information. In addition to visiting this page for recall announcements or updates, ALDI shoppers can access more information at http://www.recalls.gov or the CPSC (Consumer Product Safety Commission) at http://www.CPSC.gov.
A Minnesota company recalled certain peanut butter, salsa and cheese products sold nationwide because of a potential Listeria contamination.he recall included peanut butter, salsa and various cheese products. Parkers Farm Acquisition, LLC voluntarily recalled more than a dozen items after inspectors determined some of the finished products were contaminated with Listeria Monocytogenes bacteria.
Spinach dip has been recalled in New South Wales, Aldi supermarkets, Queensland and the Australia Capital Territory following listeria contamination discovery. One of the major lines recalled is Deli Originals Spinach Dip Mediterranean Style (200g) with a 22 nd January 2014 use-by date. Deli Originals is a spinach dip brand that is made by Victorian Company Yumis Quality Foods for Aldi stores. Only the spinach dip was affected by the recall. According to Aldi’s spokeswoman, listeria contamination was discovered during normal testing processes conducted by an independent laboratory for the company.
Image caption The store has recalled 200g (7oz) packs of Choceur Treasures. Supermarket Aldi has issued a product recall after salmonella was found in a batch of chocolate. The store has recalled 200g (7oz) packs of Choceur Treasures with a best before date of 1 September 2015. 
The following dog food brands have been recalled by their maker, Menu Foods, due to a contamination that could cause kidney failure and/or renal failure in dogs. Consumers who have one or more of the products being recalled are advised to stop using it immediately and anyone believing their pet may have eaten tainted food should consult with a veterinarian. The recalled wet dog food brands are: 1  Americas Choice, Preferred Pets. 2  Authority. 3  Award. 4  Best Choice. 5  Big Bet. 6  Big Red. 7  Bloom. 8  Cadillac
Aspen Foods, a division of the Koch Poultry Company that sells products under numerous brand names at some of the country's largest retail supermarkets including Safeway and Aldi, said recalled products have “best if used by” dates between July 14, 2016 and Oct. 10, 2016 and include the following brands: 1  Acclaim. It's time to check your freezers again. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service has announced a second, very large frozen chicken recall. This time it involves nearly 2 million pounds of Aspen Foods products that may have been contaminated with salmonella.
The agency says the products are stuffed and breaded and may appear cooked, but they are raw. The products were shipped nationwide and have the establishment number P-1358 in the USDA inspection mark. Brands associated with the recall include Kirkwood, Roundy's, Safeway Kitchens and Spartan. Also, keep raw poultry away from other food that will not be cooked. Use one cutting board for raw poultry and a separate one for fresh produce and cooked foods.. A full list of recalled brands is below: 1  Acclaim.