Smooth muscles of the body are the ones that work involuntarily-mainly they are your organs. The contrast is skeletal muscle which is are things like biceps and abdominals-these you can consciously control. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male, female, and all animals, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle and iris of the eye.
Answers. Best Answer: this is a good cartoon for smooth muscle. in general, it is spindle shaped with a central nucleus. it is cross linking spindle fibers for contraction. it is NOT striated like skeletal and cardiac muscles. Source(s): http://www.udel.edu/biology/Wags/histopa... 
The cells of heart muscle are striated (like stripes on a tie) as is skeletal muscle. Cardiac muscle is a type of involuntary striated muscle found only in the walls of the he … art. They can contract but also carry an action potential (i.e. conduct electricity), like the neurons that constitute nerves. Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of large and small arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male and female reproduct … ive tracts, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle, and iris of the eye.
The cells of heart muscle are striated (like stripes on a tie) as is skeletal muscle. Cardiac muscle is a type of involuntary striated muscle found only in the walls of the he … art. They can contract but also carry an action potential (i.e. conduct electricity), like the neurons that constitute nerves. Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of large and small arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male and female reproduct … ive tracts, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle, and iris of the eye. 2 people found this useful.
A sarcoma is a type of cancer that develops from certain tissues, like bone or muscle. Bone and soft tissue sarcomas are the main types of sarcoma. Soft tissue sarcomas can develop from soft tissues like fat, muscle, nerves, fibrous tissues, blood vessels, or deep skin tissues. They can be found in any part of the body. 
Structure Smooth muscle fibers are spindle-shaped, and, like all muscle, can contract and relax. In the relaxed state, each cell is spindle-shaped, 20-500 micrometers long, and 5 micrometers wide There are two types of smooth muscle arrangements in the body: multi-unit and single-unit. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male, female, and all animals, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle and iris of the eye.
Cardiac muscle. Cardiac muscle tissue, like skeletal muscle tissue, looks striated or striped. The bundles are branched, like a tree, but connected at both ends. Unlike skeletal muscle tissue, the contraction of cardiac muscle tissue is usually not under conscious control, so it is called involuntary. Skeletal muscle looks striped or  striated  – the fibres contain alternating light and dark bands (striations) like horizontal stripes on a rugby shirt. In skeletal muscle, the fibres are packed into regular parallel bundles.
Smooth muscle 40X. Smooth muscle can be confused with cardiac muscle because the cells are often running in different directions, just as they are in cardiac muscle. Smooth muscle cells are a lot smaller than cardiac muscle cells, and they do not branch or connect end to end the way cardiac cells do. 