DEFINITION OF HALAL. The word ‘halal’ literally means permissible-and in translation it is usually used as lawful. The Halal food Authority rules for halal are based on Islamic Shari’ah. The antonym to halal is haram, which means unlawful or forbidden. It is well known in the meat trade that Muslims consume halal meat.
The opposite of halal is haram (forbidden). Food can be forbidden in Islam if it includes: 1  blood. 2  alcohol. 3  meat or any products from a forbidden animal, including pigs and any carnivorous animals or birds of prey. 4  meat or any products of an animal which has not been slaughtered in the correct manner in the name of Allah.
adj. 1. Of or being meat from animals slaughtered in the manner prescribed by the shari'a: a halal butcher; a halal label. 2. In accordance with or permitted under the shari'a. n. Halal meat.
Now to make meat halal or permissible, an animal or poultry has to be slaughtered in a ritual way known as Zibah or Zabihah. To make it readily comprehended halal is somewhat like Jewish kosher and, Zibah is with some exception similar to Shechita.
Halal is an Arabic word that means permissible.. In terms of food, it means food that is permissible according to Islamic law. For a meat to be certified halal, it cannot be a forbidden cut (such as meat from hindquarters) or animal (such as pork.).
Definitions. In Arabic, the opposite of “halal” is “haram.” Most food falls into either the halal or haram categories, but there are certain items, such as processed or man-made foods, that are called “mashbooh,” or “doubtful.” Further research is needed before classifying them as halal or haram.
In Arabic it simply means permissible or allowed. Opposite to it is haram, which means forbidden or not allowed. Arabic is the language of the Qur`an, a scripture revealed to the Holy Prophet of Islam by the Almighty Allah to be followed in its entirety by the Muslims.
Halal simply means permitted or lawful. So when we are talking about halal foods it means any foods that are allowed to be eaten according to Islamic Sharia law. This means that for any food to be considered halal it must comply with the religious ritual and observance of