Automated Clearing House (also referred to as ACH) is the network that processes electronic financial transactions in the United States. This contains large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches from a variety of different types of organizations and businesses. 
The Payflow ACH (Automated Clearing House) Payment Service enables you to electronically collect payments from your customers for either single-entry or recurring payments by directly debiting your customer's checking or saving accounts. On the Internet, ACH is primarily used for person-to-person (P2P), business-to-customer (B2C), and business-to-business (B2B) payments. Following are the benefits of ACH Payments. Provide your customers with an alternative to credit cards and check
Wire transfers and ACH payments may seem similar, almost identical. However, the two are quite different, and understanding the differences between them is beneficial for anyone who is interested in using electronic methods of payments for moving money to and from bank accounts. 
ACH refers to Automated Clearing House, which is a national automated electronic funds transfer system. Many types of payments are made using the Automated Clearing House, including direct deposits, tax payments and bill payments. If you see an ACH transaction on your bank statement, it indicates that an electronic transfer of funding has been paid either to or from your bank account. Most consumers establish ACH transactions as a normal part of their monthly banking routine. ACH transactions may be authorized to make a payment for a loan – or other account – one time or on a recurring basis. But regardless of the type or frequency of your payments, all ACH debits from your account must be authorized – including those set up to help automatically repay your loan at Speedy Cash.
ACH is a computer-based clearing and settlement facility established to process the exchange of electronic transactions between participating depository institutions. Rules and regulations that govern the ACH network are established by NACHA and the Federal Reserve. In 2013, this network processed nearly 22 billion ACH transactions with a total value of $38.7 trillion. Credit card payments are handled by separate networks. The Federal Reserve Banks, through the FedACH system, are collectively the nation's largest ACH operator. In 2005, they processed 60% of commercial interbank ACH transactions; the remaining 40% was processed by the Electronic Payments Network (EPN), the United States' only private-sector ACH operator.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic network for financial transactions in the United States. ACH processes large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches. ACH credit transfers include direct deposit, payroll and vendor payments. The Federal Reserve Banks, through the FedACH system, are collectively the nation's largest ACH operator. In 2005, they processed 60% of commercial interbank ACH transactions; the remaining 40% was processed by the Electronic Payments Network (EPN), the United States' only private-sector ACH operator.
DEFINITION of 'Automated Clearing House-ACH'. An electronic funds-transfer system run by the National Automated Clearing House Association. This payment system deals with payroll, direct deposit, tax refunds, consumer bills, tax payments and many more payment services. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Automated Clearing House-ACH'. The use of electronic clearing houses to facilitate electronic transfers of money has increased efficiency and timeliness of government and business transactions.
vs. Datto. Automated Clearing House (ACH) is a secure payment transfer system that connects all U.S. financial institutions. The ACH network acts as the central clearing facility for all Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) transactions that occur nationwide, representing a crucial link in the national banking system. 