While I agree, I would also say the amount of time taken to master the violin is related to a) your teacher and their abilities, and b) the amount of time that you practice. Many people take longer periods of time to 'master' the violin, while others can pick it up in a shorter amount of time.
To learn the violin it can take anywhere from 3 or 4 years to 10 years, and then you never really stop learning, there's always something that can be improved. Have fun, and good luck! If there is anyone here whom I have not insulted, I beg his pardon.
It is hard to determine how long it takes for a violin or bow to peak because many factors help determine the time to maturity, including climate and amount of time spent playing. It seems with bows that the concensus is that 10 years or so of regular use will see a bow closing in on its maximum quality.
It all depends on your instructor and how frequent you have you classes, and how much effort you put in to learning the violin. As i child. i was ehusiastic about playing music. I learned to play the violin in about 3 1/4 years. It was a couple of years but I mastered it and it gives off a great feelig of accomplishment, i had classes very often 5 times a week after school! I even learned how to play the piano and a little bit of the sax while at Phillips Andover Academy.
It takes about five years to get into the violin, given a good private teacher and regular practice, and it takes 10 years to master it. See: How long will it take me to get really good at the violin? http://beststudentviolins.com/PedagogyTe...
Depends on what you mean play the violin. (and you mean learn how to play it right?) To master it, probably upwards of 5 years. To play a simple song, 6 months with the help of a good teacher and lots of practice.
show more I am currently in grade 12 (17 years old) and I do not have a musical background. Lately I have been interested in learning to play the violin. How long would it take me to learn to read and understand music.
For as much as I play, I re-hair my bow around every 6 months, but you should probably only need to do it once a year, if that, if you’re not playing a lot. 3) Rosin: Rosin is what helps the bow grip the string. It’s cheap for how long it lasts, but again, you can may as much or as little as you want on rosin.