Salmonella typhi is a gram negative bacterium that causes systemic infections and typhoid fever in humans. This rod-shaped, flagellated organism’s sole reservoir is humans. It has caused many deaths in developing countries where sanitation is poor and is spread through contamination of water and undercooked food. 
Salmonella Typhi lives only in humans. Persons with typhoid fever carry the bacteria in their bloodstream and intestinal tract. In addition, a small number of persons, called carriers, recover from typhoid fever but continue to carry the bacteria. Both ill persons and carriers shed Salmonella Typhi in their feces (stool).
Typhoid fever is a life-threatening illness caused by the bacterium Salmonella Typhi. In the United States, it is estimated that approximately 5,700 cases occur annually. Most cases (up to 75%) are acquired while traveling internationally. Persons with typhoid fever carry the bacteria in their bloodstream and intestinal tract. In addition, a small number of persons, called carriers, recover from typhoid fever but continue to carry the bacteria. Both ill persons and carriers shed Salmonella Typhi in their feces (stool).
Typhoid fever is a type of enteric fever along with paratyphoid fever. The cause is the bacterium Salmonella typhi, also known as Salmonella enterica serotype typhi, growing in the intestines and blood. Typhoid is spread by eating or drinking food or water contaminated with the feces of an infected person. Risk factors include poor sanitation and poor hygiene. 
Typhoid fever is caused by virulent bacteria called Salmonella typhi (S. typhi). Although they're related, S. typhi and the bacteria responsible for salmonellosis, another serious intestinal infection, aren't the same. 
Signs & Symptoms. Most persons infected with Salmonella bacteria develop diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days, and most persons recover without treatment. However, in some persons, the diarrhea may be so severe that the patient needs to be hospitalized. 
Typhoid fever is a blood infection caused by consumption of food or water contaminated by the bacterium Salmonella enterica, subspecies enterica, serovar Typhi; commonly referred to as S almonella typhi or S. typhi. Sometimes you will see the serovar capitalized, i.e., Salmonella Typhi. 
1 Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Typhi are two of over 2,500 types of Salmonella enterica. 2  Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Typhi are closely related. 3  However, there are distinct differences in the type and severity of infectious disease they both cause. 1 Salmonella Typhimurium can cause infections in humans and animals. 2  It is often associated with animals and animal products that are eaten. 3  Salmonella Typhimurium can be transferred to humans through raw or undercooked infected food including meat and eggs.
Typhoid fever is an acute illness associated with fever caused by the Salmonella typhi bacteria. It can also be caused by Salmonella paratyphi, a related bacterium that usually causes a less severe illness. The bacteria are deposited in water or food by a human carrier and are then spread to other people in the area. Typhoid fever is contracted by drinking or eating the bacteria in contaminated food or water. People with acute illness can contaminate the surrounding water supply through stool, which contains a high concentration of the bacteria. Contamination of the water supply can, in turn, taint the food supply.
Salmonella Typhi. 1  Salmonella Typhi can only infect humans. 2  It causes typhoid fever. 3  It is common in developing countries where hygiene is poor and the water can be contaminated with sewage. 4  The symptoms of typhoid fever include fever, weakness, stomach pains, headache or loss of appetite. 1 Salmonella Typhimurium can cause infections in humans and animals. 2  It is often associated with animals and animal products that are eaten. 3  Salmonella Typhimurium can be transferred to humans through raw or undercooked infected food including meat and eggs.