The CDC recommends the MCV4 vaccination (licensed in 2005) for use in children and teenagers between the ages of 11 and 18 years, as well as at-risk individuals between the ages of 2 and 55 years. MPSV4 is the only meningococcal vaccination that can be used for people over the age of 55 years. The Facts. There are two main types of meningitis: viral meningitis and bacterial meningitis. Most cases of meningitis arise from a viral infection and are usually mild, typically having flu-like symptoms that resolve within two weeks with rest and fluids.
The Hib vaccination provides protection against meningitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), an infection most common in children under the age of 5 years. This vaccine is usually administered in three or four doses during the first year of your child's life (2 months, 4 months, 6 months and 12 months). The Facts. There are two main types of meningitis: viral meningitis and bacterial meningitis. Most cases of meningitis arise from a viral infection and are usually mild, typically having flu-like symptoms that resolve within two weeks with rest and fluids.
When quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine was first recommended for preteens and teens in 2005, the expectation was that protection would last for 10 years; however, currently available data suggest protection declines in most teens within 5 years. All 11–12 year olds should be vaccinated with a quadrivalent (protects against serogroups A, C, W, and Y) meningococcal conjugate vaccine (Menactra® or Menveo®). A booster dose is recommended at age 16 years. For teens who receive the first dose at age 13 through 15 years, a booster dose should be administered, preferably at age 16 through 18 years, before the period of increased risk
The meningococcal vaccine protects you from four types of bacteria that cause meningococcal disease. This illness can cause meningitis, an infection of the lining around the brain or spinal cord. It can also cause a blood infection (meningococcal bacteremia), pneumonia, and other problems. Early symptoms of both meningitis and blood infection can be confused with the flu or a cold, but symptoms can rapidly become more severe and may include: 1  Sudden high fever. 2  Headache. 3  Stiff neck. 4  Aches. 5  Fatigue.
There are two types of vaccines available, viral meningitis and bacterial meningitis. The meningitis vaccine, Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) is administered to children under 5 years of age. There are usually 3 to 4 doses given at 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, and 12 months of age. This vaccine is known to provide immunity against meningitis infection for at least 15 years. There are two types of vaccines against Neisseria meningitidis, the bacteria that causes meningococcal meningitis. The first one begin meningococcal polysaccharide vaccine (MPSV4), the only vaccine that can be administered to people over 55 years of age.
The meningitis vaccine takes two weeks to fully kick in, and should protect you for three to five years. People with HIV may not respond as well to the vaccine, so it’s recommended that they receive two doses — a booster shot, in essence – two to three months apart. 
Make sure your preteen and teen get the meningococcal conjugate vaccine for protection against meningococcal disease, a very serious illness where death can occur in as little as a few hours. The meningococcal conjugate vaccine is recommended at 11-12 years of age and a booster dose at age 16. Meningococcal disease is not very common in the United States, but can be devastating and often—and unexpectedly—strikes otherwise healthy people. Meningococcal conjugate vaccine is routinely recommended for all 11 through 18 year olds. Preteens should get the first dose of this vaccine at their 11–12 year old check-up. Teenagers are recommended to get a booster dose at age 16. If your teenager missed getting a dose, ask the doctor about getting it now.
how long is the menactra vaccine good for. Olga Pasick responds: Duration of protection of Menactra is believed to be about 8 years, but studies are not complete yet. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends meningococcal vaccination for all adolescents 11 through 18 years of age. At present, these recommendations do not address revaccination or booster. 
Vaccine Recommendations. Meningococcal vaccines protect against most types of meningitis, but they do not prevent all cases. Meningococcal conjugate vaccine is recommended for people 11 – 54 years of age, as well as certain high-risk children from ages nine months through ten years. Adolescents should receive the first dose at 11 or 12 years of age, with a booster at age 16 to 18 years. 