Plectranthus barbatus, also known by the synonym Coleus forskohlii and vernacular names forskohlii and Indian coleus, is a tropical perennial plant related to the typical coleus species. It is interesting from a scientific and medicinal standpoint because it produces forskolin. In Marathi the plant roots are known as mainmula (माइनमुळा) and especially used for pickles. The pickle is supposed to help strengthen the heart muscles. In Kenya it is also referred to as Kikuyu toilet paper, as in rural areas its leaves are used as such.
Based on these apparent effects, Coleus forskohlii has been suggested as a useful treatment for eczema and other allergic conditions, dysmenorrhea (menstrual cramps), angina, irritable bowel syndrome (spastic colon), crampy bladder pain (as in bladder infections), and hypertension (high blood pressure). Coleus forskohlii has also been proposed as a treatment for psoriasis, because that disease appears to be at least partly related to low levels of cyclic AMP in skin cells.
Product description. Coleus Forskohlii has been long used for medicinal uses in the treatment of asthma, insomnia, allergies, angina, convulsions, blood clots and high blood pressure among many others. In this day and age it is used as a fat burning supplement in the dietary realm for weight loss. With the many people suffering from weight issues and more so unsightly belly fat, the quest for a solution that works has led to myriads of weight loss products. Good thing is, Coleus Forskohlii works to give you a slimmer balanced look by getting rid of that protruding belly while maintaining toned abs in the process.
Coleus Forskohlii works by enhancing the discharge of fatty acids from the tummy’s adipose tissue. The makeup of this component fosters a sequence of responses that cause a thermo genesis effect. Through thermo genesis, the amount of an enzyme called adenylate cylate increases. With the many people suffering from weight issues and more so unsightly belly fat, the quest for a solution that works has led to myriads of weight loss products. Good thing is, Coleus Forskohlii works to give you a slimmer balanced look by getting rid of that protruding belly while maintaining toned abs in the process.
Dr Oz recommends a dosage of a standardized 20% for Coleus Forskohlii at 125mg in the morning for effective weight loss. Lower levels of standardization will also work but will have slower effects. Supplement labels should be read to get the requisite dosages since there are many different types of supplements. With the many people suffering from weight issues and more so unsightly belly fat, the quest for a solution that works has led to myriads of weight loss products. Good thing is, Coleus Forskohlii works to give you a slimmer balanced look by getting rid of that protruding belly while maintaining toned abs in the process.
A member of the mint family, Coleus forskohlii grows wild on the mountain slopes of Nepal, India, and Thailand. In traditional Asian systems of medicine, it was used for a variety of purposes, including treating skin rashes, asthma, bronchitis, insomnia, epilepsy, and angina. Coleus forskohlii has also been proposed as a treatment for psoriasis, because that disease appears to be at least partly related to low levels of cyclic AMP in skin cells.
Forskolin (also called Coleonol) is a labdane diterpene that is produced by the Indian Coleus plant (Coleus forskohlii). Forskolin is commonly used to raise levels of cyclic AMP (cAMP) in the study and research of cell physiology. Forskolin activates the enzyme adenylyl cyclase and increases intracellular levels of cAMP. cAMP is an important second messenger necessary for the proper biological response of cells to hormones and other extracellular signals.
Coleus Forskohlii Herb Extract is drived from roots from Coleus Forskohlii. Coleus is used in India folk medicines and is a traditional digestive remedy. Currently the plant is extensively cultivated is Southern India. Forskohlii helps to lower blood pressure, dilates the blood vessels. It is concerted to be a good Heart tonic. This power herb has an active ingredient in it called forskolin.
coleus Overview Information. Forskolin is a chemical found in the roots of the plant Plectranthus barbatus (Coleus forskohlii). This plant has been used since ancient times to treat heart disorders such as high blood pressure and chest pain (angina), as well as respiratory disorders such as asthma. 
Exclusive Report: Forskolin Weightloss Secrets Exposed. Forskolin (also called Coleonol) is a labdane diterpene that is produced by the Indian Coleus plant (Coleus Forskohlii). Forskolin is commonly used to raise levels of cyclic AMP (cAMP) in the study and research of cell physiology. Such is the marvel of forskolin, as the natives of the countries where it abounds have known long ago and the scientists are only just beginning to realize. Coleus forskohlii belongs to the family Labiatae (Lamiaceae) and grows wild in arid and semi-arid regions of India.