Length, width, height, depth. FAQs. People often ask about the correct use of length, width, height, and depth. In the most common contexts in elementary school, mathematics does not have a formal definition for these terms, nor does it have rules about proper use. But natural usage does follow some conventions
Noun. 1. width-the extent of something from side to side. breadth. dimension-the magnitude of something in a particular direction (especially length or width or height). broadness, wideness-the property of being wide; having great width.
Diagonals of a Rectangle. A rectangle has two diagonals, they are equal in length and intersect in the middle. The Diagonal is the square root of (width squared + height squared) : Diagonal d = √(w 2 + h 2). 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: width (Noun). The state of being wide. width (Noun). The measurement of the extent of something from side to side. width (Noun). A piece of material measured along its smaller dimension, especially fabric. width (Noun). 
up vote 0 down vote accepted. I think length and width are ambiguous. I can confirm that native English-speaking college students will sometimes use length=2, width=4, and sometimes use length=4, width=2. Of course, the area is 8 either way. 
The distance from side to side. Example: the width of this door is 80 cm. Search :: Index :: About :: Contact :: Contribute :: Cite This Page :: Privacy. 
6. (tr) to make or cut to a particular size or sizes. [C13: from Old French sise, shortened from assise assize]. Usage: The use of-size and-sized after large or small is redundant, except when describing something which is made in specific sizes: a large (not large-size) organization. size 1. n. 1. The physical dimensions, proportions, magnitude, or extent of an object. 2
Having said that, I know that a lot of you still want to figure out your shoe size yourself, so let's get started. All you need to properly measure your feet at home is: 1  two pieces of paper, each one larger than your feet. 2  a pencil. 3  tape. 4  and a ruler or measuring tape. 
width. n. 1. The state, quality, or fact of being wide. 2. Abbr. w The measurement of the extent of something from side to side. 3. 1. width-the extent of something from side to side. breadth. dimension-the magnitude of something in a particular direction (especially length or width or height). broadness, wideness-the property of being wide; having great width.