Seventeenth President of the United States. Ulysses S Grant, Seventeenth President of the United States. Photo Credit: Credit: Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division, LC-USZ62-13018 DLC.
17th President of the United States. On the night of April 14, 1865, while spending an evening at Ford's Theater, in Washington, D.C., President Abraham Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes Booth, and he died the next morning. Johnson was also a target on that fateful night, but his would-be assassin failed to show up. Three hours after Lincoln died, Andrew Johnson was sworn in as the 17th president of the United States. In a strange irony often found in American history, the racist Southerner Johnson was charged with the reconstruction of the South and the extension of civil rights and suffrage to former black slaves.
Bill Clinton. George W. Bush. Andrew Johnson, the seventeenth President of the United States (1865-69), was the first Vice President to take over the presidency because of an assassination. He was also the first President to be impeached by the Congress. In the Senate trial he held onto the presidency by a margin of only a single vote. 
3 user reviews. Andrew Johnson, a member of the Democratic Party, took office as the 17th President of the United States on April 15, 1865 at age 56. Johnson served in office for 3 years 46 weeks and was passed over for nomination to a second term by his party. Andrew Johnson, a member of the Democratic Party, took office as the 17th President of the United States on April 15, 1865 at age 56
Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 – July 31, 1875) was the 17th President of the United States, serving from 1865 to 1869. Johnson became president as he was vice president at the time of President Abraham Lincoln's assassination. A Democrat who ran with Lincoln on the National Union ticket, Johnson came to office as the Civil War concluded. Negotiated by the United States Minister to Britain, former Maryland senator Reverdy Johnson, in late 1868, it was ignored by the Senate during the remainder of the President's term. The treaty was rejected after he left office, and the Grant administration later negotiated considerably better terms from Britain.
With the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln, Andrew Johnson became the 17th President of the United States (1865-1869), an old-fashioned southern Jacksonian Democrat of pronounced states' rights views. The Presidential biographies on WhiteHouse.gov are from “The Presidents of the United States of America,” by Frank Freidel and Hugh Sidey. Copyright 2006 by the White House Historical Association. Learn more about Andrew Johnson 's spouse, Eliza McCardle Johnson.
He was tried by the Senate in the spring of 1868 and acquitted by one vote. In 1875, Tennessee returned Johnson to the Senate. He died a few months later. The Presidential biographies on WhiteHouse.gov are from “The Presidents of the United States of America,” by Frank Freidel and Hugh Sidey. Copyright 2006 by the White House Historical Association. Learn more about Andrew Johnson 's spouse, Eliza McCardle Johnson.
He went on to be the first president to have a Queen, Queen Emma of the Sandwich Islands (Hawaii), visit him in the White House. He is, Andrew Johnson, 17th President of the United States. Andrew was born in a log cabin in Raleigh, North Carolina on December 29, 1808. At the age of 10, Andrew was apprenticed to a tailor shop and bond to the job until he was 21 years of age, however Andrew and his brother, who was also apprenticed, ran away.