An associate degree with a focus on finance can usually be earned in two years or less. A bachelor degree in finance can usually be earned in three to four years. A master's degree in finance can be earned in one to two years or less after completing a bachelor's program. Doctorate programs with a focus on finance take approximately four to six years to complete and require at least a bachelor's degree--though a master's degree is a more common requirement. However, there are some cases in which an associate degree would be sufficient. For example, an individual with a finance degree can often get an entry-level position at many banks and accounting firms.
Associate degree holders, in general, have a better job outlook than those with only a high school diploma according to US Census Bureau statistics. An associate degree can be earned in as few as two years, and attending school online can be more convenient than at a traditional campus. Listed below are some great online schools that offer associate degrees in the US. 
What is the abbreviation of an accounting associate's degree? Answer 1: In the United States, a two-year associates degree in accounting would likely be an Associate of Science (AS) degree (though at some schools it would be an Associ … ate of Arts (AA). At the associates level, indicating that it's a degree in accounting somewhere in the degree's abbreviation would be extraordinarily rare. It would more likely be, simply, AA or AS or AAS and that's it.
College Degree Finder. Associate’s degrees are undergraduate degrees that can be completed in two years and generally require students to complete 60 semester credit hours. They’re offered primarily through community colleges and technical schools but can also be found at few a four-year colleges. Occupational associate’s degrees are designed to help students acquire specific knowledge and skills in preparation for a particular career path. These degrees include the Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.), Associate of Applied Arts, Associate of Occupational Studies and Associate of Applied Technology.
While finance can be a standalone subject at the associate degree level, it's often offered as a concentration in an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) in Business Administration program as well. Students in these programs learn to apply financial principles and practices to a host of business management issues. This section contains original articles covering nearly every type of associate's degree program imaginable. In these articles you will find a description of the degree program, an overview of the required coursework, and relevant career information such as job outlook and salary information.
In the Associate Degree in Finance program, you'll receive in-depth instruction in important finance procedures. Everything you learn, from accounting principles to money markets, investment strategies and global economics, is designed for real-world application. Start anytime and study at your own pace. 
Penn Foster College's Associate Degree in Finance Program can help you gain relevant knowledge and skills related to the finance industry. Online Finance Degree Overview. In the online Finance Degree program at Penn Foster College, you can take the first step towards a new career in the growing
It could be an associate of arts (AA), or associate in science (AS), or an associat … es in applied science (AAS).   An associates of arts (AA) and associates in science (AS) degrees are typically designed for transfer to a four year college or university. At the associates level, indicating that it's a degree in accounting somewhere in the degree's abbreviation would be extraordinarily rare. It would more likely be, simply, AA or AS or AAS and that's it.
A bachelor degree is required for most positions in the finance field. However, there are some cases in which an associate degree would be sufficient. For example, an individual with a finance degree can often get an entry-level position at many banks and accounting firms. A masters degree or MBA in finance often leads to the best job opportunities
The Finance associate degree program will prepare the student to work as an entry-level financial analyst, financial planner, or financial manager, and will also provide a foundation for further education and training. Online Finance Degree Overview. In the online Finance Degree program at Penn Foster College, you can take the first step towards a new career in the growing finance industry.