Sweetbreads on mushroom (morel) risotto. Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus (also called throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) or the pancreas (also called heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau), and, less commonly, of beef and pork. 
Follow us on Pinterest. Sweetbreads. The thymus glands of veal, beef, and pork. There are two glands, one near the heart (which is considered more delicious) and one near the throat. Look for white, plump, and firm sweetbreads, and use within 24 hours of purchase. To remove the outer membrane, the glands are normally soaked in salt water before being cooked.
sweetbreads. Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig. The former is elongated, the latter rounder and larger. Sweetbreads from milk-fed veal or young calves are considered the best. Those from young lamb are quite good, but beef sweetbreads are tougher and pork sweetbreads (unless from a piglet) have a rather strong flavor.
Sweetbreads made from an animal's pancreas and thymus glands (called the heart sweetbread and throat sweetbread, respectively). Heart sweetbreads are usually slightly larger, but they taste the same and are cooked the same way. 
Full Definition of SWEETBREAD. : the thymus or pancreas of a young animal (as a calf) used for food. See sweetbread defined for English-language learners. See sweetbread defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Food Encyclopedia. Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig. The former is elongated, the latter rounder and larger. Sweetbreads from milk-fed veal or young calves are considered the best. Those from young lamb are quite good, but beef sweetbreads are tougher and pork sweetbreads (unless from a piglet) have a rather strong flavor.
Sweetbreads are the thymus glands that come from veal, young beef, lamb and pork. There are two kinds of glands, and elongated lobe it the throat, and a large one near the heart. The heart sweetbread is the most expensive and the most delectable. It has a firm, creamy texture. Sweetbreads from veal are tender, ones from beef are tougher, and the ones from pork have a strong flavor. Availability; young calf and beef are available year round in specialty markets.