Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus capsulate of the genus Bordetella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Unlike B. bronchiseptica, B. pertussis is not motile. Pertussis [edit]. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. In the US, it killed between 10,000 and 20,000 people per year before a vaccine was available.
Whooping cough is caused by a type of bacteria called Bordetella pertussis (this is why the illness is sometimes called pertussis). This bacteria damages the lining of the nose, throat and breathing tubes (trachea and bronchi) and causes the coughing. Children get the bacteria from someone who is infected with it. 
A zoonotic reservoir for B. pertussis does not appear to exist; humans are its only known host, which means universal vaccination could potentially eradicate the disease. The bacterium is spread by airborne droplets; its incubation period is 7 to 14 days. Pertussis [edit]. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. In the US, it killed between 10,000 and 20,000 people per year before a vaccine was available.
Pertussis is an afebrile respiratory illness caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. It is highly contagious and occurs in all age groups. Pertussis is spread by respiratory droplets generated through coughing, sneezing and even talking. 
Pertussis, more commonly known as whooping cough, is caused by a bacterium (germ), Bordetella pertussis, that lives in the mouth, nose and throat. The germ is highly contagious and is easily spread from person-to-person. 
Pertussis, which is commonly known as whooping cough, enters a person's body when the Bordetella pertussis (B. pertussis) bacteria that cause the illness are transmitted through an infected person's respiratory secretions. The period between when a person becomes infected with pertussis and the onset of whooping cough symptoms is known as the incubation period. While the whooping cough incubation period is commonly 7 to 10 days, it can range from 4 to 21 days, and even may be as long as 42 days in rare cases. Advertisement.
How does whooping cough spread. Whooping cough is spread by tiny wet drops produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks. People with whooping cough can spread the disease from the time they get a runny nose until 3 weeks after their cough starts. People with whooping cough can prevent spreading the disease if they take the right antibiotics. Older children and adults, including parents, often have mild disease. They can spread whooping cough and not know it. This is because they do not feel very sick so they do not see a doctor or get treated
Pertussis, or whooping cough, is a highly contagious disease involving the respiratory tract. It is caused by a bacterium, Bordetella pertussis, which is found in the mouth, nose and throat of an infected person. A person can transmit pertussis from seven days following exposure to an infected person, to three weeks after the onset of coughing episodes. Pertussis is only contagious for 5-7 days if antibiotic therapy is begun.
Causes. Pertussis, a respiratory illness commonly known as whooping cough, is a very contagious disease caused by a type of bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. These bacteria attach to the cilia (tiny, hair-like extensions) that line part of the upper respiratory system. 
Pertussis is a very contagious disease, characterized by severe coughing, caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. Among vaccine-preventable diseases, pertussis is one of the most commonly occurring ones in the United States. 