A pathologist inspects the cells under a microscope to see if they are cancerous. If the cells are found to be cancerous, a biopsy can help determine whether the cancer began at the site of the biopsy, or if it started somewhere else in the body and spread to the biopsy site. A sample of tissue or cells is required for a biopsy, which must be conducted before treatment can begin. The types of biopsies typically used for diagnosing oral cancers are: 1  Incisional biopsy: A small piece of tissue is cut from an abnormal-looking area.
Only a biopsy can give a definitive oral cancer diagnosis. A sample of tissue or cells is required for a biopsy, which must be conducted before treatment can begin. The types of biopsies typically used for diagnosing oral cancers are: 1  Incisional biopsy: A small piece of tissue is cut from an abnormal-looking area.
A biopsy is a procedure to remove a piece of tissue or a sample of cells from your body so that it can be analyzed in a laboratory. A needle biopsy is often used on tumors that your doctor can feel through your skin, such as suspicious breast lumps and enlarged lymph nodes. When combined with an imaging procedure, such as X-ray, needle biopsy can be used to collect cells from a suspicious area that can't be felt through the skin.
Diagnostic testing for gum cancer includes a biopsy. In a biopsy a sample of cells or tissues are taken from the area or area of the gums that have a lesion, lump or are abnormal and may be cancerous. The sample is examined under a microscope for the presence of cancer cells. Gum cancer is very treatable and often curable if caught in the early stage. 
The sample of tissue is then sent to a pathologist who examines the tissue under a microscope to check for abnormal, or malignant cells. When dealing with an area of significant mass, such as an enlarged lymph node, fine needle aspiration cytology (fine needle biopsy or FNB) has found an increasing role in diagnosis. 
During an excisional gum biopsy, your doctor may remove the entire growth—depending on the size and location of the lesion, or sore. This type of biopsy is normally used to take out a small lesion that is in an easily reachable area of your mouth. How a Gum Biopsy Is Done. A gum biopsy usually is done as an outpatient procedure at a hospital or in your doctor’s office. A physician, dentist, or periodontist typically does the biopsy. A periodontist is a dentist who specializes in diseases related to the gums and mouth tissue.
Brush Biopsy. A brush biopsy is a noninvasive procedure used to gather tissue by forcefully rubbing a brush against the abnormal area of your gum. It is used for an initial evaluation, or testing. A brush biopsy is often your doctor’s first step if your symptoms do not call for an immediate open or needle biopsy. How a Gum Biopsy Is Done. A gum biopsy usually is done as an outpatient procedure at a hospital or in your doctor’s office. A physician, dentist, or periodontist typically does the biopsy. A periodontist is a dentist who specializes in diseases related to the gums and mouth tissue.
A gum biopsy is a medical procedure in which a tissue sample is extracted from your gums for laboratory analysis. The test is used to diagnose causes of abnormal tissue in your gums, which might be a result of oral cancer or noncancerous mouth sores. Your gums also are known as gingiva. How a Gum Biopsy Is Done. A gum biopsy usually is done as an outpatient procedure at a hospital or in your doctor’s office. A physician, dentist, or periodontist typically does the biopsy. A periodontist is a dentist who specializes in diseases related to the gums and mouth tissue.
In some cases, a biopsy of normal-appearing tissue may be done. This can help check for cancer spread or rejection of a transplanted organ. In most cases, a biopsy is done to diagnose a problem or to help determine the best therapy option. 