Page Content. The ABA Routing Number (a.k.a. ABA number or Routing Transit number) was developed by the American Bankers Association (ABA) in 1910. The ABA Routing Number serves to identify the specific financial institution responsible for the payment of a negotiable instrument. The ABA Key to Routing Numbers is published semi-annually to keep pace with the rapid changes in the industry. Inaccurate, incomplete, or missing routing number information can cost you thousands of dollars every month.
The American Bank Association (ABA) routing/transit number and your Chase account number can be obtained from a voided check. Chase Liquid ® customers can find their account and routing numbers by logging into Chase.com, choosing the Customer Center tab, and then the Set up direct deposit link. 
Routing Number History. The ABA introduced routing numbers in 1910. It enables banks and businesses to identify the financial institution holding a particular account. That reduces the time required to process the check. An American Bankers Association number appears at the bottom left corner of a check. The ABA number identifies your bank, just as your account number identifies your checking account. It also is known as a routing number, check routing number or routing transit number.
An ABA routing transit number (ABA RTN) is a nine digit code, used in the United States, which appears on the bottom of negotiable instruments such as checks to identify the financial institution on which it was drawn. Since 1911, the American Bankers Association has partnered with a series of registrars, currently Accuity, to manage the ABA routing number system. Accuity is the Official Routing Number Registrar and is responsible for assigning ABA RTNs and managing the ABA RTN system.
This number identifies the financial institution upon which a payment is drawn. Routing numbers are sometimes referred to as check routing numbers, ABA numbers, or routing transit numbers (RTN). Routing numbers may differ depending on where your account was opened and the type of transaction made. Here is an analogy: Think of the ABA Routing Number as the address of your apartment building and your Account Number as your apartment number.
Details Hidden. USAA Federal Savings Bank's ABA number is 314074269. Unique ABA numbers are assigned to each financial institution by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Used to move funds electronically from one financial institution to another, they are sometimes called Bank Transit Routing numbers. Click to Show. USAA Federal Savings Bank's ABA number is 314074269. Unique ABA numbers are assigned to each financial institution by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Used to move funds electronically from one financial institution to another, they are sometimes called Bank Transit Routing numbers.
Bank routing number or routing transit number (RTN) is a nine digit number used to identify a financial institution in a transaction. Most common types of transaction being ACH and wire transfers. Some banks and credit unions may have multiple routing numbers serving different purposes, geographical regions or branches. 
An ABA number (also known as routing number or routing transfer number) is a sequence of nine numeric characters used by banks to identify specific financial institutions within the United States. An ABA number is used for wires and electronic automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions such as electronic funds transfer, direct deposit, direct payment of consumer bills, e-checks, and tax payments, among others.