15 Foods That Are High In Potassium. Eating more of these potassium-rich foods can lower your risk of high blood pressure, stroke, and heart disease. Too much sodium, too little potassium. Studies suggest boosting your potassium intake and curbing salt and sodium can slash your stroke risk by 21% and may also lower your odds of developing
It is the job of healthy kidneys to keep the right amount of potassium in your body. However, when your kidneys are not healthy, you often need to limit certain foods that can increase the potassium in your blood to a dangerous level. 1 You should limit foods that are high in potassium. 2  Your renal dietitian will help you plan your diet so you are getting the right amount of potassium. 3  Eat a variety of foods but in moderation.
Bananas. If you’ve heard about any potassium-rich foods, you probably know that bananas are a good source, containing more than 400 mg of potassium each. Bananas make a healthy high-energy snack – more beneficial to athletes than sports drinks, according to at least one study. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.
This is not wrong—by our Rating System, bananas are a good source of potassium. But there are 32 foods on our Rating Chart with more potassium per calorie than the banana. Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Some legumes, fish, and dairy products can also make important contributions to our daily potassium intake; yet, because these foods have more calories, they are not as highly rated by our Nutrient Richness System. The ratio of sodium to potassium in a modern, processed food diet is likely to be close to 5:1, with five times as much sodium as potassium. The U.S. would be a good example of an industrialized country with this type of high sodium:potassium ratio from processed foods.
One of the biggest problems with the traditional American diet? Too much sodium, too little potassium. Studies suggest boosting your potassium intake and curbing salt and sodium can slash your stroke risk by 21% and may also lower your odds of developing heart disease.
Potassium is crucial to heart function and plays a key role in skeletal and smooth muscle contraction, making it important for normal digestive and muscular function. Many foods contain potassium, including all meats, some types of fish (such as salmon, cod, and flounder), and many fruits, vegetables, and legumes. Dairy products are also good sources of potassium. Having too much potassium in the blood is called hyperkalemia; having too little is known as hypokalemia. Potassium is a very important mineral for the proper function of all cells, tissues, and organs in the human body. It is also an electrolyte, a substance that conducts electricity in the body, along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium.
A normal amount of potassium in a typical diet of a healthy American is about 3500 to 4500 milligrams per day. A potassium restricted diet is typically about 2000 milligrams per day. Your physician or dietitian will advise you as to the specific level of restriction you need based on your individual health. 1 You should limit foods that are high in potassium. 2  Your renal dietitian will help you plan your diet so you are getting the right amount of potassium. 3  Eat a variety of foods but in moderation.
1 Getty Images Avocado If avocado isn’t a staple in your house yet, you should probably start adding it to your grocery list. 2  This nutrient-dense food is rich in potassium – containing 975 mg in one avocado – as well as vitamins and heart-healthy fats, plus is naturally free of sodium and cholesterol. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.
Basic Description. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System. The ratio of sodium to potassium in a modern, processed food diet is likely to be close to 5:1, with five times as much sodium as potassium. The U.S. would be a good example of an industrialized country with this type of high sodium:potassium ratio from processed foods.
1 This nutrient-dense food is rich in potassium – containing 975 mg in one avocado – as well as vitamins and heart-healthy fats, plus is naturally free of sodium and cholesterol. 2  Luckily, avocado is so versatile that you can incorporate it into any meal of the day. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.