Homeowners can expect wood roofs to last 25 years, on average. While slate has a very long lifespan, it's also very expensive, costing approximately $800 per square -- an area equaling 10 feet by 10 feet -- at the time of publication. Deciding Factors. While slate has a very long lifespan, it's also very expensive, costing approximately $800 per square -- an area equaling 10 feet by 10 feet -- at the time of publication. Asphalt singles are relatively inexpensive, but their life expectancy is much shorter.
Average Life Expectancies. Slate roofs can last 100 years or more, and clay roof tiles, on average, endure 100 years. Cooper and other metal roofs have life expectancies of at least 50 years. Deciding Factors. While slate has a very long lifespan, it's also very expensive, costing approximately $800 per square -- an area equaling 10 feet by 10 feet -- at the time of publication. Asphalt singles are relatively inexpensive, but their life expectancy is much shorter.
You will rarely get the full life out of a shingle. A 20 yr shingle will last an average of 15 yrs sometimes less. A lot depends on the installation, shingle over reroofs dont last as long. Or if underlayment/felt paper was not used that takes years off the life of a shingle. In your case hopefully they used a 30 yr shingle which should last 25 yrs. I know most states I work in now use a 25 or 30 year shingle on new work. If you have architectural shingles they are probably a 30 year if its a standard 3 tab probably a 20 year shingle.
So how long should a roof last? We have seen poorly designed and installed roofs go as few as seven to ten years before they failed, and we have seen old asphalt roofs that were over 30 years old. Most building owners, roofing contractors and designers feel 25 years is an acceptable service life for today’s products. 
Although roofing materials have average life expectancies, the life expectancy of any one roof depends on factors such as local weather conditions and the roof's design and construction, as well as its material. Deciding Factors. While slate has a very long lifespan, it's also very expensive, costing approximately $800 per square -- an area equaling 10 feet by 10 feet -- at the time of publication. Asphalt singles are relatively inexpensive, but their life expectancy is much shorter.
When you re-shingle your house, you hope you will be problem free for anywhere from 15 to 30 years. The life expectancy of shingles, however, depends on such factors as the quality of shingle you choose, the climate in which you live, the workmanship used by the roofing contractor and how well you maintain your roof.
So how long should a roof last? We have seen poorly designed and installed roofs go as few as six or seven years before they failed, and we have seen old coal tar built up roofs that were 60 years old. Most building owners, roofing contractors and designers feel 20 years is an acceptable service life. 
Roofs: Slate, copper and tile roofs can last more than 50 years. Homeowners with wood shake roofs should expect them to last about 30 years, while fiber cement shingles last about 25 years and asphalt shingle/composition roofs last about 20 years, the NAHB found. Climate and weather conditions, such as snow, hail and hurricanes, can cut the life span of all types of roof
Extremes of climate, especially high winds, can reduce the longevity of your roof, but if you have a quality roof installed in the first place, you will be able to see the maximum amount of life from it. The most common roofing materials will last for 20 years after installation. These include composite roofs and torchdown roofs. If you opt for wood shingles, you could see a 30- to 40-year lifespan for your roof. Your actual longevity depends on the climate, your roof’s design, and the climate. Knowing how long your roof will last will help you determine the average amount of money per year your roof costs you.
How long does a roof last is dependent on the material that the roof is made up of. Different materials have different time span. Some can last for 10 years, some 40 and some even for 100 years. A roof can be made of clay, wood metal or asphalt. A well built roof is very important in order to shelter oneself from the outside weather conditions.