Effects of LSD Use. The effects of LSD are unpredictable. Usually, the first effects of the drug are felt 30 to 90 minutes after taking it. The user may experience extreme changes in mood, feel several different emotions at once, or swing rapidly from one emotion to another.
LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) is the most widely used hallucinogenic drug. Hallucinogenic drugs cause a person to see vivid images, hear sounds, and feel sensations that seem real but are not. LSD is also called acid, blotter, or dots. It is odorless and colorless and has a slightly bitter taste.
The effects of LSD are unpredictable and depend on the amount taken; the person's personality, mood, and expectation; and the situation in which the drug is used. Effects are usually felt within 30 to 40 minutes after taking the drug. The LSD experience is often called a trip and can last up to 12 hours.
LSD is the most commonly abused hallucinogenic drug. LSD, which is also known as acid, is a manmade drug that comes from a fungus that grows on grains, such as rye. LSD is an illegal drug that causes long lasting delusions and hallucinations.
The long-term effects of using LSD can include persistent psychosis (disorganized thinking, hallucinations) and flashbacks. Users can experience these long-term consequences sometimes after only one exposure to the drug.
The effects of LSD. As said above LSD belongs to the hallucinogen class of drugs. For those who don't know, what hallucinogen drugs are: hallucinogen drugs are drugs, that cause hallucinations (hallucinations are distortions in a person’s perception of reality).
LSD users quickly develop a high degree of tolerance to the drug’s effects, such that repeated use requires increasingly larger doses to produce similar effects. Use of hallucinogenic drugs also produces tolerance to other drugs in this class, including psilocybin and peyote.
Some LSD users relive their experiences after the effects of the drug have worn off. Flashbacks are more common with regular users of acid, but it is possible for a person who has only tried it occasionally to have this experience.