This is where the resident and the nursing home agree to pay the interest costs of the outstanding bond in regular monthly payments rather than as a lump sum upfront. This option requires the resident (or family) to have access to capital or surplus cash flow to pay the bond interest each month. In many cases, it is now possible to raise some or all of the money required to pay an aged care bond via a reverse mortgage. These are loans designed especially for retirees and the elderly. Reverse mortgages allow the borrower to release equity in their home without the need for ongoing payments.
But they do not provide the same coverage. 1  Medicaid will pay for your nursing home care and most of your costs at the nursing home. 2  Medicare only pays for a nursing home in some situations, and then only up to 100 days. The rest of your income is paid to the nursing home each month. There are some exceptions. You can use your income to pay for: 1  unpaid medical bills. 2  private health insurance. 3  some medical services not covered by Medicaid. 4  some home expenses if you are expected to return home within 6 months.
The amount you pay is agreed between you and the aged care home. However, you cannot be asked to pay an accommodation bond that will leave you with less than $46,000 in assets (from 20 March 2015 to 19 September 2015). You would have been asked to pay an accommodation bond when you entered low-level care or when you entered an extra-service place. An accommodation bond works like an interest-free loan to an aged care home. Any income earned from the bond is used by the aged care home to improve accommodation and services.
So you may decide to sell your home to pay a higher difference for a nursing home which demands a higher bond. Let’s assume your house sells for $250,000. If you go in as a single, the full $250,000 will be means tested. Accommodation bonds and accommodation fees are to pay for accommodation, not care. They pay for the building, the gardens, the furniture and any other physical facilities, but not for care. The law does not permit it.
The maximum bond amount for most nursing homes is $550,000 (daily charge $100.81). The corresponding ‘unaffordable’ excess is $17,600 a year. On the other hand, if you manage to get a Home Care package (the old Community Aged Care Package), you will be charged 17.5 per cent of the basic rate of the single Age Pension. Accommodation bonds and accommodation fees are to pay for accommodation, not care. They pay for the building, the gardens, the furniture and any other physical facilities, but not for care. The law does not permit it.
From 1 July 2014 the lump sum accommodation bond and part of the former home (up to $144,000) may count as an asset to calculate the means tested aged care fee. Keeping the former home is one strategy to minimise aged care fees as the majority of the value of the home (above $144,000) is not means tested. So you can see, you may not need to sell the family home to fund the aged care bond and fees after all! This is a very complex area financially so please call our office on 1300 659 677 for help. In many cases, it is now possible to raise some or all of the money required to pay an aged care bond via a reverse mortgage. These are loans designed especially for retirees and the elderly. Reverse mortgages allow the borrower to release equity in their home without the need for ongoing payments.
If your bond balance is not repaid to you on the day that you leave, the aged care home is required to pay you interest. Late payments of bond refunds that are not agreed to can be reported to the Aged Care Complaints Scheme. You would have been asked to pay an accommodation bond when you entered low-level care or when you entered an extra-service place. An accommodation bond works like an interest-free loan to an aged care home. Any income earned from the bond is used by the aged care home to improve accommodation and services.
If you rent your home to pay for regular payments to the nursing home (DAP), the value of your home and rental income is not assessed against the age pension assets and income test. It is also worth noting that the rent received does not have to be at market rate. The short answer is – ‘no’. You are never forced to sell your home to pay the bond or deposit. The nursing home must give you the option of paying the outstanding deposit by way of regular monthly payments, rather than an upfront lump sum. The technical term for using this method of payment is Daily Accommodation Payment (DAP)
The interest rate payable to the resident is set by the Government at the lower social security deeming rate plus 2%. It should be noted that residents who elect to pay the bond by interest only instalments do not receive any of this back from the nursing home on exit. The reason for this is that they are basically paying the nursing home the interest the nursing home is forgoing by not holding the bond as a lump sum. Currently, the aged care facility can charge any amount of bond as long as the resident is left with at least $44,000 in assets. The maximum bond payable is dependent on the assets of the person entering the nursing home.