Cyclopentane Version 1.3 Revision Date 2015-08-26 MSDS Number:100000014138 4/15 contaminated fire extinguishing water must be disposed of in accordance with local regulations. For safety reasons in case of fire, cans should be stored separately in closed containments. Use a water spray to cool fully closed containers. Weight % Cyclopentane 287-92-3 95 - 100 Isopentane 78-78-4 1 - 5 SECTION 4: First aid measures General advice: Move out of dangerous area. Show this material safety data sheet to the doctor in attendance. Material may produce a serious, potentially fatal pneumonia if swallowed or vomited.
Cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene is an example. Alicyclo hydrocarbon is one of the major skeleton in nature. Cyclopentane derivatives can be used for the synthesis of fungicides, pharmaceuticals, dyes, herbicides, plant growth regulator, plasticizers, rubber chemicals, cycloamines and other organic compounds. 
Confidence votes 246. The main difference between cyclopentane and pentane is the number of hydrogen. cyclopentane has 2 hydrogen less than pentane. It will form a cyclic compound to get rid of the double bond that is in its structure. Eclipsing of hydrogen atoms is an important destabilizing effect, as well. The strain energy of a cycloalkane is the theoretical increase in energy caused by the compound's geometry. Ring strain is highest for cyclopropane, in which the carbon atoms form a triangle and therefore have 60 degree C-C-C bond angles.
Cyclo pentane (C5H10). Cyclopenta ne is commonly represented by the structural formula. and cyclohexane (C6H12) by the structural formula. Note the pentagon between the five carbon atoms for cyclopentane, and the hexagon between the six carbon atoms for cyclohexane. The single lines between the atoms represent single covalent bonds. Note that each carbon atom has four bonds (valency 4), and each hydrogen atom has one bond (valency 1).
The term may refer to any of three structural isomers, or to a mixture of them: in the IUPAC nomenclature, however, pentane means exclusively the n-pentane isomer; the other two being called isopentane (methylbutane) and neopentane (dimethylpropane). Cyclopentane is not an isomer of pentane. Such reactions are unselective; with n-pentane, the result is a mixture of the 1-, 2-, and 3-chloropentanes, as well as more highly chlorinated derivatives.
Cyclopentane is a highly flammable alicyclic hydrocarbon with chemical formula C 5 H 10 and CAS number 287-92-3, consisting of a ring of five carbon atoms each bonded with two hydrogen atoms above and below the plane. It occurs as a colorless liquid with a petrol-like odor. Its melting point is −94 °C and its boiling point is 49 °C. Cyclopentane is in the class of cycloalkanes, being alkanes that have one or more rings of carbon atoms. The typical structure of cyclopentane is the envelope conformation. It is formed by cracking cyclohexane in the presence of alumina at a high temperature and pressur
The existing animal data indicate that cyclopentane is a narcotic agent. As with other alicyclic hydrocarbons, exposure to high concentrations causes excitement, loss of equilibrium, stupor, coma, and, rarely, respiratory failure (Gerarde 1963a, as cited in ACGIH 1986/Ex. 1-3, p. 164). Previously, OSHA had no limit for cyclopentane. The proposed PEL was 600 ppm as an 8-hour TWA, and NIOSH concurred with this limit (Ex. 8-47, Table N1). The final rule promulgates this limit, which is consistent with that of the ACGIH.
The main difference between cyclopentane and pentane is the number of hydrogen. cyclopentane has 2 hydrogen less than pentane. Eclipsing of hydrogen atoms is an important destabilizing effect, as well. The strain energy of a cycloalkane is the theoretical increase in energy caused by the compound's geometry. Ring strain is highest for cyclopropane, in which the carbon atoms form a triangle and therefore have 60 degree C-C-C bond angles.
Cyclopentane is used in the manufacture of synthetic resins and rubber adhesives and also as a blowing agent in the manufacture of polyurethane insulating foam, as found in many domestic appliances such as refrigerators and freezers, replacing environmentally damaging alternatives such as CFC-11 and HCFC-141b. It occurs as a colorless liquid with a petrol-like odor. Its melting point is −94 °C and its boiling point is 49 °C. Cyclopentane is in the class of cycloalkanes, being alkanes that have one or more rings of carbon atoms.
Cyclopentane. (also pentamethylene), a saturated alicyclic hydrocarbon having the structural formula. Cyclopentane is one of the simplest cycloalkanes. A colorless liquid with a characteristic odor, it has a boiling point of 49.3°C, a melting point of –93.9°C, and a density of 0.745 g/cm 3 at 20°C. Cyclopentane is insoluble in water, but it is miscible with benzene, ether, and acetone. It is a component of petroleums. 1  Facebook.