*Automatic vs. manual transmission (The cost is generally higher to replace an automatic transmission.). *The model and year of your vehicle (Foreign vehicles typically, cost more for transmission repair work than domestic vehicles.). *The extent of the damage (“in-place” repair job vs. a full replacement). If you’ve ever wondered about the typical cost for transmission repair keep reading. In this article, we’ll answer your questions about the average cost of all things related to transmission repair cost.
1 For example, CostHelper readers report paying $90-$378 for a transmission flush at a oil-and-lube or auto repair shop, at an average cost of $160; or $77-$295 at dealerships, at an average cost of $205; and a CostHelper reader in Nevada reported being charged $766 for a transmission fluid change on a Lamborghini Diablo. 1 Flushing a transmission with a pressurized machine can cost $125-$300 or more, and may include pushing a special cleaning compound through the system.
1 CostHelper readers report paying $1,200-$4,179 to replace a transmission in a passenger car, at an average cost of $2,324; $1,600-$4,500 to replace a transmission in a pickup truck, for an average $2,792; and $1,700-$6,000 for an SUV or minivan, with an average cost of $3,090. 1 A used transmission from a salvage or junk yard can cost $200-$600 or more, depending on the year, make and model of vehicle; the mileage and condition of the junked car; and the relative availability or rarity of that particular transmission.
Parts: $25 - $49. The average cost for an automatic transmission fluid/filter change is between $151 to $209. Labor costs are estimated between $126 to $160 while parts are priced between $25 to $49. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. Your repair shop may recommend a transmission fluid flush, which will require up to 16 quarts of transmission fluid. This will increase the parts and labor price when compared to a normal drain and fill of the transmission.
All 4 of these bullet points affect the price of a transmission service, but the average price for an actual transmission service should be around $150. For a price on your specific car’s transmission service you’ll have to call your local transmission shop. The cost of an automatic transmission service can vary greatly depending on at least four common aspects; 1  The type of vehicle; on some cars the labor to remove the transmission oil pan can be much higher than others.
Posted on January 20, 2012 by atra. You see it all over the internet: “Rebuilt Transmissions, $799 for most cars”, or articles that talk about the high cost of transmission repair. In the articles you’ll read that a reasonable price for rebuilding an automatic transmission might be as high as $1,500
1 The fluid capacity of the vehicle’s automatic transmission oil pan; the transmission oil pan on some vehicles can hold up to 3 times the amount of an average 4 quart oil pan. 2  The type of automatic transmission fluid used; ATF can range from around $5 a quart to almost $20 a quart. The cost of an automatic transmission service can vary greatly depending on at least four common aspects; 1  The type of vehicle; on some cars the labor to remove the transmission oil pan can be much higher than others.
Price. The average price can be based on a general number and then, we can discuss the variables. According to Edmunds.com, the average cost to have a new transmission replaced (at a transmission repair shop) is approximately $1,800. If you’ve ever wondered about the typical cost for transmission repair keep reading. In this article, we’ll answer your questions about the average cost of all things related to transmission repair cost.
Keep in Mind: An automatic transmission fluid service will replace the pan gasket, filter, and transmission fluid. Some vehicles do not have a serviceable transmission filter and some transmissions are designed to be “sealed for life,” meaning that they do not require any service or maintenance. Our recommendation: A conservative rule of thumb is that a car should get a transmission fluid service every 40,000 miles. If you notice any fluid underneath the car, get it inspected as soon as you can. Changing your transmission’s fluid regularly will greatly extend the service life of your vehicle’s transmission.