#1 doctor and pharmacist recommended brand for scars. Made in Germany. Mederma® Scar Cream plus SPF should be evenly applied and gently rubbed into scar 3 times daily for 8 weeks on new scars, and 3 times daily for 3-6 months on existing scars. Also apply Mederma® Scare Cream plus SPF to the scar before sun exposure. Children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor. © Merz Pharmaceuticals.
Mederma is made from a patented formula which combines unique ingredients such as Cepalin, centella asiatica leaf extract and hyaluronic acid. Cepalin is the main active ingredient of the product and is an onion extract that has been known to soothe the skin from inflammation and irritation. 1 While this will not do much in terms of the reduction of stretch marks, softer skin will be less likely to crack or show the wear of agedness. 2  Unfortunately, such a positive trait is not what most consumers would be primarily looking for when purchasing Mederma.
Let me tell you it works. Tell Us Your Success Story. Share how Mederma ® Stretch Marks Therapy or Mederma ® scar products made a difference. Post before and after pictures of your scar or stretch marks, or send us a video of your adventure, your new baby, your story of bravery. You deserve a badge, not a scar or stretch marks. Today is the day for your story to be heard. The Success Stories on this site have been sent directly to Merz by Mederma ® users and we have not verified the accuracy of these testimonials. Use the free Mederma ® Progress Tracker App for iPhone ® to make a time-lapse movie of your scar’s progress and to get reminders to apply Mederma ® . . Sign-up Manage my reminders.
Instead, I decided to try Mederma PM, the new “Intensive Overnight Scar Cream.” The whole PM thing isn’t just a marketing gimmick--the formula really is significantly different from Mederma classic, in three ways. First, Mederma PM is, as you might have noticed in the last paragraph, a cream, whereas the original Mederma is a gel. I personally prefer a cream over a gel, and I’m weirdly enthusiastic about how fresh it smells.
Mederma Advanced Scar Gel, with Cepalin® botanical extract, is specifically formulated and clinically shown to soften, smooth and reduce the appearance of scars. Mederma Advanced Scare gel should be evenly applied and gently rubbed into the scar once a day for 8 weeks on new scars, and once a day for 3-6 months on existing scars. Apply Mederma Advanced Scar Gel as soon as your wound has closed.
Mederma is a topical product used to improve scar appearance. It is a gel based on an onion extract and produced by Merz Pharmaceuticals of Frankfurt, Germany. Mederma's marketing claims it can make scars softer, smoother, and less noticeable. Generic versions are sold under the name cepalin. One 2006 clinical trial found no statistically significant change in hypertrophic scar appearance from products of this type compared to the standard petrolatum emollient, while a 1999 pilot trial found an onion extract gel less effective than the petrolatum.
Mederma Stretch Mark Therapy is a topical cream application that contains numerous ingredients in order to reduce and improve the appearance of stretch marks. It claims to reduce the appearance of stretch marks in as little as twelve weeks of continuous use. It is made by Mederma, a popular brand for scar treatments. 1 While this will not do much in terms of the reduction of stretch marks, softer skin will be less likely to crack or show the wear of agedness. 2  Unfortunately, such a positive trait is not what most consumers would be primarily looking for when purchasing Mederma.
Mederma® Stretch Marks Therapy is an advanced cream that combines a unique blend of ingredients: Cepalin-Onion Extract. Hyaluronic Acid-Hydrating Agent. Centella Asiatica-Leaf Extract. It is formulated to help reduce the appearance and smooth the texture of stretch marks with noticeable improvement in 4 weeks. #1 Pharmacist-Recommended Stretch Mark Therapy Brand for 2 Years in a Row. Mederma® Stretch Marks Therapy is clinically shown to reduce the appearance of stretch marks.