Conflict resources are natural resources whose systematic exploitation and trade in a context of conflict contribute to, benefit from or result in the commission of serious violations of human rights, violations of international humanitarian law or violations amounting to crimes under international law. The concept of 'conflict resource', or 'conflict commodity ' emerged in the late 1990s, initially in relation to ' conflict diamonds ' financing rebellions in Angola and Sierra Leone.
Conflict Minerals in Your Electronics. Profit from the mineral trade is one of the main motives for armed groups on all sides of the conflict in eastern Congo-the deadliest since World War II. Armed groups earn hundreds of millions of dollars per year by trading four main minerals: the ores that produce tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold. The conflict minerals problem is complicated, and the suffering in Congo is immense. But there is good news: because we as electronics consumers are tied so directly to the problem, we can actually play a role in ending the violence. We must raise our collective voice as consumers and demand conflict-free e
Our work on conflict minerals has shone a spotlight on the eastern DRC, where the trade in minerals has part funded fighting for more than a decade. Civilians have borne the brunt of the violence in a conflict characterised by rape, displacement and murder. We know this is a global problem. Today, resources from conflict or high-risk areas, such as parts of Afghanistan, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and Zimbabwe, can fund armed groups and fuel human rights abuses. These resources can enter global supply chains, ending up in our mobile phones, laptops, jewelry and other products.
Overview of the Conflict Minerals Issue. The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is a Central African country with vast mineral wealth, including reserves of cassiterite (tin), columbite-tantalite (tantalum), wolframite (tungsten) and gold. LG is committed to adopting, widely disseminating and incorporating principles in support of this goal in contracts, agreements and/or communication with suppliers. LG expects our suppliers to have in place policies and due-diligence measures to facilitate the sourcing of minerals that are “DRC conflict free.
Con-flict Min-er-al \kan-flict'\\'min-rl','mi-na'-\ noun: 1. Conflict minerals are minerals mined in conditions wher armed conflict and human rights abuses occur. Commonly used for 4 minerals (3TG): Tungsten, Tantalum, Tin, and Gold that are mined in the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Thes minerals are used in the production of various goods such as electronic devices and jewelry. Worldwide Production. 
2. Conflict minerals, as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold, regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission today adopted a rule mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to require companies to publicly disclose their use of conflict minerals that originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an adjoining country. 
In an effort to address the humanitarian crisis associated with conflict minerals, the United States (U.S.) enacted legislation requiring that U.S. companies report to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on their use of conflict minerals sourced from the DRC and surrounding region 2) . LG is committed to adopting, widely disseminating and incorporating principles in support of this goal in contracts, agreements and/or communication with suppliers. LG expects our suppliers to have in place policies and due-diligence measures to facilitate the sourcing of minerals that are “DRC conflict free.
Home › Our Initiatives › Conflict Minerals. For more than a century, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been plagued by regional conflict and a deadly scramble for its vast natural resources. The conflict minerals problem is complicated, and the suffering in Congo is immense. But there is good news: because we as electronics consumers are tied so directly to the problem, we can actually play a role in ending the violence. We must raise our collective voice as consumers and demand conflict-free electronics.
The most commonly mined conflict minerals are cassiterite (for tin), wolframite (for tungsten), coltan (for tantalum), and gold ore, which are extracted from the Eastern Congo, and passed through a variety of intermediaries before being purchased by multinational electronics companies. The concept of 'conflict resource', or 'conflict commodity ' emerged in the late 1990s, initially in relation to ' conflict diamonds ' financing rebellions in Angola and Sierra Leone.