Learn more about refills and transfers on CVS.com. Common Side Effects of Plavix. Plavix is a blood thinner that can cause bleeding which could be serious. It is important for you to get emergency help right away if you have any bleeding that is unexpected or is taking a longer time to stop than you would expect.
The most common side effects with Plavix are pruritus (intense itching sensation), purpura (bleeding under the skin), diarrhea, and rash. Aspirin, one of a group of drugs called salicylates, works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain, fever, and inflammation. Plavix is used to prevent blood clots in people with recent heart attacks, strokes, and arterial and vascular diseases. Common side effects of Plavix include abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, indigestion, itching, headache, joint pain, back pain, and bruising.
Based on these studies, the most common side effects of Plavix (occurring in more than 2 percent of people and more often in the group taking Plavix) include: 1  Major bleeding -- in up to 3.7 percent of people. 2  Flu-like symptoms -- up to 7.5 percent. 3  Headache -- up to 7.6 percent. 4  Dizziness -- up to 6.2 percent. 
Side effects of clopidogrel. Clopidogrel can cause side effects, although serious reactions are rare. Common side effects of clopidogrel can include: 1  headaches or dizziness. 2  nausea. 3  diarrhoea or constipation. 4  indigestion (dyspepsia). 5  stomach ache or abdominal pain. 6  nosebleeds. 7  increased bleeding (your blood taking longer to clot – for example, when you cut yourself), or easy bruising. 
Plavix is not right for everyone. Tell your doctor if you have an active bleeding condition including stomach ulcers. Tell your doctor if you have a history of bowel or stomach ulcers or a history of bleeding problems. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, planning to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. Plavix is a blood thinner that can cause bleeding which could be serious. It is important for you to get emergency help right away if you have any bleeding that is unexpected or is taking a longer time to stop than you would expect.
A: Plavix (clopidogrel) is an antiplatelet medication that keeps the blood from clotting, to prevent heart attack or stroke. Plavix may be harsh on the stomach, as stomach pain is one of the more common side effects seen with this medication. Plavix is used to prevent blood clots in people with recent heart attacks, strokes, and arterial and vascular diseases. Common side effects of Plavix include abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, indigestion, itching, headache, joint pain, back pain, and bruising.
Brand Name(s): Plavix ®. IMPORTANT WARNING. ... Clopidogrel may cause other side effects ... If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program online [at Web Site ... Antiplatelet Therapy. Common names include: Aspirin; Clopidogrel (Plavix); Aspirin and dipyridamole (Aggrennox). Aspirin. ... This medicine is able to reduce recurring heart attacks by about 25%. Its effect on embolic stroke is about the same. Possible side effects include ...
Plavix is available in the generic form termed clopidogrel bisulfate. Plavix is used to treat patients with acute coronary syndrome, myocardial infarction (MI), peripheral vascular disease and some stroke (ischemic type) patients. The most common side effects of Plavix include increased bleeding, nosebleeds, headaches, and bruising. Common side effects may include itching. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
A: Plavix (clopidogrel) works to reduce the blood from clotting by keeping platelets from sticking together. Plavix is used to prevent blood clots after a recent heart attack or stroke, and in people with certain disorders of the heart or blood vessels. The most common side effects of Plavix are bleeding and itching. A search of the prescribing information for Plavix did not specifically list weight gain as a side effect. Plavix is used to prevent blood clots in people with recent heart attacks, strokes, and arterial and vascular diseases. Common side effects of Plavix include abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, indigestion, itching, headache, joint pain, back pain, and bruising.