In fact, 97% of all the water on Earth is salt water. The other percentage is freshwater. 2% of this is found in frozen glaciers near the poles. That leaves the other 1% of freshwater that is on this Earth. The Freshwater biome can be found in various places all over the world. Because of this, the temperature of the water is different from place to place. Ponds, streams, rivers, and lakes are all part of the freshwater biome. 
1 The right bar shows the breakdown of surface freshwater. 2  Most of this water is locked up in ice, and another 20.9% is found in lakes. 3  Rivers make up 0.49% of surface freshwater. 4  Although rivers account for only a small amount of freshwater, this is where humans get a large portion of their water from. You've heard the phrase, and for water, it really is true. Earth's water is (almost) everywhere: above the Earth in the air and clouds, on the surface of the Earth in rivers, oceans, ice, plants, in living organisms, and inside the Earth in the top few miles of the ground.
LOCATION: Wetlands are areas where standing water covers the soil or an area where the ground is very wet. Unlike estuaries, freshwater wetlands are not connected to the ocean. They can be found along the boundaries of streams, lakes, ponds or even in large shallow holes that fill up with rainwater. Freshwater wetlands may stay wet all year long, or the water may evaporate during the dry season. There are many different types of freshwater wetlands, all of which have different names
Freshwater is defined as having a low salt concentration  usually less than 1%. Plants and animals in freshwater regions are adjusted to the low salt content and would not be able to survive in areas of high salt concentration (i.e., ocean). There are different types of freshwater regions: 1  Ponds and lakes. Marsh flora also include such species as cypress and gum. Wetlands have the highest species diversity of all ecosystems. Many species of amphibians, reptiles, birds (such as ducks and waders), and furbearers can be found in the wetlands.
1 Only a little more than 1.2% of all freshwater is surface water, which serves most of life's needs. 2  The right bar shows the breakdown of surface freshwater. 3  Most of this water is locked up in ice, and another 20.9% is found in lakes. 4  Rivers make up 0.49% of surface freshwater. You've heard the phrase, and for water, it really is true. Earth's water is (almost) everywhere: above the Earth in the air and clouds, on the surface of the Earth in rivers, oceans, ice, plants, in living organisms, and inside the Earth in the top few miles of the ground.
Freshwater fish are those that spend some or all of their lives in fresh water, such as rivers and lakes, with a salinity of less than 0.05%. These environments differ from marine conditions in many ways, the most obvious being the difference in levels of salinity. 
Fresh water is naturally occurring water on the Earth 's surface in ice sheets, ice caps, glaciers, icebergs, bogs, ponds, lakes, rivers and streams, and underground as groundwater in aquifers and underground streams. First, fresh water from the melting glaciers will mingle with salt water in the oceans and become too salty to drink. Second, the increased ocean volume will cause sea levels to rise, contaminating freshwater sources along coastal regions with seawater”.
You might be surprised at how little of Earth's water supply is stored as freshwater on the land surface, as shown in the diagram and table below. Freshwater represents only about three percent of all water on Earth and freshwater lakes and swamps account for a mere 0.29 percent of the Earth's freshwater.
Freshwater lakes contain about 87% of this fresh surface water, including 29% in the African Great Lakes, 20% in Lake Baikal in Russia, 21% in the North American Great Lakes, and 14% in other lakes. Swamps have most of the balance with only a small amount in rivers, most notably the Amazon River. First, fresh water from the melting glaciers will mingle with salt water in the oceans and become too salty to drink. Second, the increased ocean volume will cause sea levels to rise, contaminating freshwater sources along coastal regions with seawater”.