The valley is created through industrial dumping and thus a by-product of capitalism. The people and also the environmental are suffering. Tom, Daisy, and Jordan, with their empty, void lives, are the characters represented as the formless bodies of ashes in the valley of ashes. The ashes are symbols of dead, with more self-centered and arrogant people arising from them. Every generation, the ashes pile distorting the American Dream further.
“This is a valley of ashes – a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens; where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of ash-grey men, who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air.
Well the 'Valley of Ashes', the name pretty much says it all. It's symbolic meaning is akin to burning a piece of paper or a body that is cramated. What once was whole and alive is now dead and lifeless.
1 The Eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg-The eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckelburg cast an ominous shadow over the goings-on in the novel. 2  The symbolism behind the eyes, located on a billboard overlooking the Valley of Ashes, is open to interpretation. 3  George Wilson likens them to the eyes of God.
The Valley is literally defined by its dust and ash, this is where the ashes from the city's industries are dumped. The alley of ashes, with its brooding eyes of Dr. T. J. Eckleburg,, its grey and dreary backdrop and its contrast to East and West Egg, uses various forms of symbolism.
Symbolism in The Great Gatsby. Some important symbols in F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby include the eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg and the Valley of Ashes located between West Egg and New York City. 1  The Eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg-The eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckelburg cast an ominous shadow over the goings-on in the novel.
Some important symbols in F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby include the eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg and the Valley of Ashes located between West Egg and New York City. 1  The Eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg-The eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckelburg cast an ominous shadow over the goings-on in the novel.