Trust Restatement Law & Legal Definition. A restatement of a revocable living trust revises or amends a trust's provisions. A restatement of trust completely replaces and supercedes all provisions of the original revocable living trust it replaces. The original trust's name is not affected or changed by the restatement. In effect the original trust and trust estate is continued but the newly restated rules or provisions apply. Example of a statute in Texas dealing with restated declaration of trust: Tex. (1) the entire text of the declaration of trust as amended or supplemented by all articles of amendment previously filed with the county clerk of the county of the principal place of business of the real estate investment trust; or.
Although an irrevocable trust, by legal definition, cannot be amended, there are circumstances that do allow changes as well as legal methods that can change how the trust -- or a new one -- earns and distributes its income. Although many rules apply generally, state law governs the creation and amendment of trusts. The original trust may have language allowing the trustee to amend the terms of an irrevocable trust. If this is the case, then the amendments may not have to pass scrutiny by the courts. You must follow the laws of your state when setting up a new trust.
F.S. 736.0602 736.0602 Revocation or amendment of revocable trust.—(1) Unless the terms of a trust expressly provide that the trust is irrevocable, the settlor may revoke or amend the trust. 
A living trust is an agreement about your property that allows you to keep control of your assets while you're still alive and set out what happens when you die. At some point you might need to change the trust's terms. An amendment allows you to change sections of the original trust. You shouldn't alter the trust documents directly, as that might invite a legal challenge later on but you can prepare a separate amendment that details the changes. You need the name of the trust, the trust grantors and the trustees as shown on the original documents, and the original date of the trust on the amendment. Specify which article of the trust allows for amendments. Specify which article is being changed and detail
Step 4. Petition the court to allow an amendment to the original trust, if you can show that a scrivener's error occurred when the trust was originally set down, or that you did not understand the terms of the trust when you signed it. The original trust may have language allowing the trustee to amend the terms of an irrevocable trust. If this is the case, then the amendments may not have to pass scrutiny by the courts. You must follow the laws of your state when setting up a new trust.
The Living Trust Amendment is a document used to change one or more minor provisions of a living trust or joint living trust as an alternative to preparing a new living trust. The amendment can be used to make minor deletions and/or additions to the original trust. 
It is your prerogative to change your mind any time during your lifetime. You can change your living trust, usually without incurring lawyer bills. There are a couple of ways to proceed. One is indeed to attach an amendment. Just be sure your changes -- what you want to delete and what you want to add -- are crystal clear. 
Revocable Living Trust Amendment Unlike a Will, a living trust is controlled by contract law rather than by the probatecode under state law. An amendment to a Revocable Living Trust must be inwriting, but it does not need to be witnessed. It does not need to be notarized. Itdoes need to be signed by the Grantors of the Trust and the Trustees of theTrust since they are both parties to the Trust Agreement.
United States trust law is the body of law regulating the legal instrument for holding wealth known as a trust. Most law regulating the creation and administration of trusts in the United States is now statutory at the state level. 