Medusa in Myth and Literary History. edusa, one of the three Gorgons, daughter of Phorcys and Ceto. She was the only one of the Gorgons who was subject to mortality. She is celebrated for her personal charms and the beauty of her locks. Neptune became enamoured of her, and obtained her favours in the temple of Minerva.
She was so mad at what happened in her temple that she punished Medusa and turned her into a Gorgon.   Answer: Medusa is Poseidon's girlfriend. When Poseidon and Medusa met together at Athena, the goddess of Wisdom's temple, Athena turned Medusa into a monster with hair like snakes.
According to Hesiod, there were three female Gorgons: Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa, the queen of them all. They were the Queens of the Underworld, and the one male Gorgon Nanas was Zeus' guardian. They were known as very evil and mean creatures.
Medusa was one of the three Gorgons, and very beautiful. She was punished, though, for sleeping with poseidon (the sea god) in Athena's(god of battle and wisdom) temple. Athen … a made medusa have snakes for hair and made her so ugly that any one who looked at her directly in the eyes would turn to stone.
Medusa is the daughter of Phorkys and Keto. She is the only one of the three sisters known as Gorgons that was born a mortal. Medusa was once very beautiful but she was cursed by Athena. The godess Athena gave her snakes for hair ,and made her so ugly that anyone that stared at her turned to stone. Medusa desired revenge on Athena.
Medusa was a monster, one of the Gorgon sisters and daughter of Phorkys and Keto, the children of Gaea (Earth) and Oceanus (Ocean). She had the face of an ugly woman with snakes instead of hair; anyone who looked into her eyes was immediately turned to stone. Her sisters were Sthenno and Euryale, but Medusa was the only mortal of the three. She was originally a golden-haired, fair maiden, who, as a priestess of Athena, was devoted to a life of celibacy; however, after being wooed by Poseidon and falling for him, she forgot her vows and married him.
Medusa is one of the three daughters of Gaea, the goddess of the earth, and Oceanus, the god of the ocean. Of the three siblings, only Medusa is a mortal. Together, the three daughters are known as the Gorgons. Before being cursed by Athena, Medusa was lovely.