A small breed doe is normally ready to mate when she is 5 months old, and a buck is ready at 6 months. The medium size doe is ready to breed when she is 6 months old and the buck at 7 months. The heavy breed doe is ready at 8 months and the buck is ready at 9 months. some definitions.. * A female rabbit is called a doe.
The Age of Sexual Maturity in Rabbits Due to the great variations between rabbit breeds (including variations in size and weight at adulthood), there are also variations between the times at which certain breeds reach sexual maturity. On average the smaller breeds will mature faster than larger breeds. In addition, within certain rabbit breeds there is also variation between the varieties of that breed. It has also been observed that does will usually reach sexual maturity thirty to sixty days earlier than males of the same breed and variety. Medium breeds: Florida White, Dutch, Mini Lop, Havana and other similar breeds Reach sexually maturity at 150 to 180 days of age. Large breeds (Commercial or Standard breeds): New Zealand, Californian, Champagne d’ Argent, Palomino and other similarly sized breeds Reach sexually maturity at six to seven months of age.
Rabbit breeds derived from breeding larger rabbits with the Netherland dwarf are known as dwarf breeds. Usually dwarf breeds are slightly larger than the typical Netherland Dwarf, 4 to 5 lb (1.8 to 2.3kg). They do however display similar features. As mentioned elsewhere on this site, the Mini Lop is not a dwarf breed. The Netherland Dwarf has a small compact body, short neck and a compact broad head with curved profile and a rounded face. The coat is short and soft and the ears are small, erect, rounded at the tips and just under a quarter of an inch (5cm) in length.
Rabbits can breed as early as just a few months of age. 3 for males and 4-5 months for females. Although if you are breeding them intentionally you should wait until the female is at least one year of age. Rabbits can breed as young as 12 weeks however this is really not good for them. If you absolutely have to breed your rabbit it is best to wait until they have reached at least 1 year old first for females. Males become sexually mature much sooner and are able to breed at 12 weeks with no problem
Netherland Dwarf kits should be weaned from the doe between 5-6 weeks of age. We gradually wean the kits by removing the largest to a separate cage and one at a time remove them daily until the smallest is left. This allows the smallest kit to have a little extra milk before being weaned. 
Netherland Dwarfs are usually the breed most people think of when the topic of dwarf rabbits arises. These rabbits have a compact body with a short neck and a rounded face. Netherland Dwarf rabbits generally range from 1.5 to 2.6 pounds in weight and have an average lifespan of 7 to 10 years. Nevertheless, any rabbit breed with a maximum accepted weight of 4 pounds (1.81 kg) or less can be considered a dwarf rabbit. Most dwarfed rabbit breeds have a significant Netherland Dwarf influence in their genetic background because of the appeal of tiny rabbits to a wide segment of the population. These are:
The age a rabbit can be bred varies with the size of the rabbit. A small breed doe is normally ready to mate when she is 5 months old, and a buck is ready at 6 months. Although if you are breeding them intentionally you should wait until the female is at least one year of age. Rabbits can breed as young as 12 weeks however this is really not good for them. If you absolutely have to breed your rabbit it is best to wait until they have reached at least 1 year old first for females.
Below is a guideline for the age at which breeds tend to reach sexual maturity: Miniature breeds: Netherland Dwarf, Dwarf Hotot, Polish, Britannia Petite, Holland Lop, and other similar breeds. Reach sexually maturity at 125 to 150 days of age. Medium breeds: Florida White, Dutch, Mini Lop, Havana and other similar breeds Reach sexually maturity at 150 to 180 days of age. Large breeds (Commercial or Standard breeds): New Zealand, Californian, Champagne d’ Argent, Palomino and other similarly sized breeds Reach sexually maturity at six to seven months of age.
Breed young does of the small and medium breeds at 6 months of age and giant breeds when they are 8 to 9 months old. As with all animals, the growth and physical development of the individual doe should be the final deciding factor when to breed. Many breeding failures result from the does being overfat. 
Breed your rabbits at the proper age. You want to start breeding does (female rabbits) when they are reaching maturity. For small-medium breeds, they can be bred at 5-6 months old. Larger breeds can be bred at 8-9 months. Bucks (male rabbits) are usually ready around 6 months old if a small breed, 7 months if medium, and 9 months for a large breed. 5. Ensure that you will have homes for the kits (babies) before you breed.