The Singapore government has recently raised the minimum salary threshold for the two main types of work passes namely Employment Pass-a work visa for skilled foreign employees and S Pass-work visa for mid-skilled foreign employees. Furthermore, employers will have to pay between S$190-S$300 more as a levy for employing S-Pass holders. According to GuideMeSingapore.com, the higher salary threshold and increased levy will result in more competitive salaries for Singaporean counterparts of the S-Pass workers.
Eligibility for Employment Pass. Only eligible candidates will be considered for an Employment Pass. Criteria include a minimum salary of $3,300 and acceptable qualifications. Use the Self-Assessment Tool to check a candidate's eligibility before you apply. An employer or authorised third party has to apply for a candidate's Employment Pass. If you are an overseas employer that does not have a registered office in Singapore: 1  You need to get a Singapore-registered company to act as a local sponsor and apply on your behalf. 2  The local sponsor must apply manually.
Besides the Employment Pass, the authorities have also raised the salary threshold from S$1,800 to S$2,000 for the S-Pass, a quota-based work permit that is designed for mid-skilled foreign workers. Furthermore, employers will have to pay between S$190-S$300 more as a levy for employing S-Pass holders. According to GuideMeSingapore.com, the higher salary threshold and increased levy will result in more competitive salaries for Singaporean counterparts of the S-Pass workers.
Who is eligible. The Employment Pass is for foreign professionals who: 1  Have a job offer in Singapore. 2  Work in a managerial, executive or specialised job. 3  Earn a fixed monthly salary of at least $3,300 (more experienced candidates need higher salaries). An employer or authorised third party has to apply for a candidate's Employment Pass. If you are an overseas employer that does not have a registered office in Singapore: 1  You need to get a Singapore-registered company to act as a local sponsor and apply on your behalf. 2  The local sponsor must apply manually.
Employment Pass. The Employment Pass allows foreign professionals, managers and executives to work in Singapore. Candidates need to earn at least $3,300 a month and have acceptable qualifications. 1  Key facts Overview and key facts about the pass, including who it is for, validity and pass map. Replace a pass card. How to replace a lost, damaged or stolen Employment Pass card. 1  Notify MOM of changes When and how to notify MOM, including updating company name and address, occupation, salary and residential address.
From 1 Jan 2012, the qualifying salary for the Q1 Pass will be increased from $2,800 to $3,000, together with a tightening of educational qualifications. The qualifying salary for the P2 Pass will be raised from $4,000 to $4,500. There will be no change in the qualifying salary for P1 Pass which remains at $8,000. Employment Pass The Employment Pass allows foreign professionals to work in Singapore. It applies to foreigners who earn a fixed monthly salary of at least $3300, and have recognised qualifications. It is not a work pass and does not allow the holder to work. This Pass in no longer issued from 1/1/12 S Pass The S Pass allows mid-level skilled foreigners who earn a fixed monthly salary of at least $2,200
Requirements for obtaining an Employment Pass in Singapore. A. Eligibility Requirements of Employment Pass (“EP”). 1  The current salary threshold for the EP is $3,300. 2  However, aside from the minimum salary, the applicant’s educational qualifications and work experiences will be considered by the Ministry of Manpower (“MOM”) in granting the EP. 1 The current salary threshold for the EP is $3,300. 2  However, aside from the minimum salary, the applicant’s educational qualifications and work experiences will be considered by the Ministry of Manpower (“MOM”) in granting the EP.
Criteria for the Application of Employment Pass. 1  You are a foreign professional, executive or the owner/director of a Singapore company wanting to relocate to Singapore for work. 2  You have an employment offer with a minimum salary of S$3,000 from a Singapore Company. The Employment Pass Singapore is a work visa which is applicable to foreign professionals, entrepreneurs and executives who wish to work and live in Singapore.