Meat lovers will enjoy the parillas (mixed grill) in Venezuela as the quality of meat is quite high and the prices are low. You can choose between muchacho (roast beef), solomo (sirloin) and lomito (steak). AREPA: It is the most famous dish from Venezuela, and is a cornmeal cake that can be grilled, baked or fried. Unlike in neighbouring Colombia where it is normally eaten unadorned, here in Venezuela it is split open and filled with a variety of cheese and meats. Depending on the region you can even find shark, clams or other types of seafood fillings-especially in coastal regions like Margarita Island. The most typical empanadas are those filled with cheese and minced meat. ENSALADA CAPRESE: This famous Italian dish is very popular in Venezuela as well.
FOOD. Despite its variety, Venezuelan food has a marked Indian influence. Our national bread is the arepa, prepared with corn flour. At Christmas, all over Venezuela, a special and typical food is cooked in every house; it is called hallaca. The hallaca is a corn-meal pie stuffed with pork or chicken, olives and raisins and wrapped in plantain leaves and boiled. The arepa is perhaps the most popular food in Venezuela. It is eaten hot as a kind of bread to accompany a meal, or by itself, stuffed with meat, bologna, cheese, scrambled eggs, or anything one wishes.
Breakfast in Venezuela. Breakfast in Venezuela is a small meal that usually consists of a small pastry or toast served with coffee or fresh juice. A typical breakfast option is the famous Cachitos de Jamon (ham crescent roll) which is mainly made up of corn flour, eggs, ham and butter. You’ll find many Venezuelan dishes with beef, deer, goat, rabbit, lamb or chicken as well. Below is a guide to many of the best foods people in Venezuela enjoy for breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks in between.
Venezuela Food is an assortment of scrumptious dishes that are authentic to Venezuela. The traditional food of Venezuela consists of premium quality fish and shellfish. Most of the Venezuela native food contains a marine flavor. The national dish of Venezuela is 'pabellon', which is composed of stewed and shredded meat together with rice, black beans and banana and corn is a staple food in Venezuela. Cuisine has developed over the years in a natural process of history that has involved an amalgamation of races and cultures.
Venezuelan food is both tropical and Andean, with European infuences (especially Italian) as well as traditional dishes from native cultures. Coconut, plantains, seafood, goat, corn, and Italian pasta dishes are all part of the vibrant mix that makes up Venezuelan cuisine. Svelasco/Flickr. 
Food and Drink. Venezuela has a variety of traditional dishes which are found in nearly all local restaurants. Most are fried maize or wheatflour based pancakes or breads. The most common meat dishes in Venezuela are fried and grilled fish and meats usually served with rice. Generally, beef and chicken are most popular, though other meats such as goat are preferred in certain regions. Pork is eaten mostly at Christma
The largest meal in Venezuela is lunch, which is also when most restaurants offer nice specials on traditional Venezuelan dishes, and cuisine from all over the world including Italy, France, Spain, the Caribbean, and foods from many other countries. You’ll find many Venezuelan dishes with beef, deer, goat, rabbit, lamb or chicken as well. Below is a guide to many of the best foods people in Venezuela enjoy for breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks in between.
Apart from Venezuela, this dish is popular in Portugal, the Caribbean islands, Latin America and Philippines Hallaca, Venezuela has become the charm of a Venezuelan meal. Being the main Venezuelan dish for Christmas, it is prepared with care and patience. The national dish of Venezuela is 'pabellon', which is composed of stewed and shredded meat together with rice, black beans and banana and corn is a staple food in Venezuela. Cuisine has developed over the years in a natural process of history that has involved an amalgamation of races and cultures.
In the Andean region the food is quite different. Even the most famous dish the arepa is not made of cornmeal but wheat. Here you can find cured meats and sausages which are sold in many rural villages. You should not miss the famous fresh trucha (trout) dishes which come from the many Andean streams and lakes. The food in the Amazon region varies a lot from the rest of Venezuela. Besides the main ingredients like yucca, corn, beans and bananas some people even eat turtles, tapirs, monkeys birds and deep fried ants. Depending on the region you can even find shark, clams or other types of seafood fillings-especially in coastal regions like Margarita Island. The most typical empanadas are those filled with cheese and minced meat. ENSALADA CAPRESE: This famous Italian dish is very popular in Venezuela as well.