There is no rib muscle.. Ribs are bones attached to the vertebral column in the back and the sternum anteriorly. There are muscles attached to the ribs-several, in fact. In between the ribs are the internal and external intercostal muscles, there are the pectoral muscles, the serratus anterior and serratus ventralis, the latissimus dorsi also attaches to the ribs. Internally, the diaphragm attaches to the inferior ribs.
The 11 internal muscles are located on the anterior of the rib cage and are visible between the ribs. These muscles extend from the top of each rib and travel in an obliquely upward route from the sternum where they eventually form the posterior intercostal membranes that are attached to the spinal column. The intercostal muscles expand and compress the rib cage to allow your body to breath. The intercostal muscles are those muscle bands that surround the ribs. Intercostal muscles respond to the contraction of the diaphragm.
In addition to moving the arm and pectoral girdle, muscles of the chest and upper back work together as a group to support the vital process of breathing. The diaphragm is a strong, thin, dome-shaped muscle that spans the entire inferior border of the rib cage, separating the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity. Click to read more below. The muscles of the chest and upper back occupy the thoracic region of the body inferior to the neck and superior to the abdominal region and include the muscles of the shoulders.
There are five muscles that make up the thoracic cage; the intercostals (external, internal and innermost), subcostals, and transversus thoracis. These muscles act to change the volume of the thoracic cavity during respiration. There are some other muscles that do not comprise the thoracic wall, but do attach to it. These include the pectoralis major, minor, serratus anterior and the scalene muscles.
Muscles attached to the ribs. 1  External intercostal muscles – There are eleven pairs of external intercostal muscles and these are the most superficial in the area. 2  These extend from the lateral border of the costal grooves to the superior margins of the ribs below. 
There is no rib muscle.. Ribs are bones attached to the vertebral column in the back and the sternum anteriorly. There are muscles attached to the ribs-several, in fact. … In between the ribs are the internal and external intercostal muscles, there are the pectoral muscles, the serratus anterior and serratus ventralis, the latissimus dorsi also attaches to the ribs. Internally, the diaphragm attaches to the inferior ribs. Many of the strap muscles of the back attach to the ribs. 
The external intercostal muscles consist of 11 muscles that envelop each side of the exterior of the rib cage from the back of the ribs and wrapping around where they are attached to the sternum in front. The intercostal muscles expand and compress the rib cage to allow your body to breath. The intercostal muscles are those muscle bands that surround the ribs. Intercostal muscles respond to the contraction of the diaphragm.
The intercostal muscles are the muscle bands that surround and span between the ribs that alternately lift and compress the rib cage in order to permit respiration. There are two distinct muscle groups: the external and the internal intercostals. The intercostal muscles expand and compress the rib cage to allow your body to breath. The intercostal muscles are those muscle bands that surround the ribs. Intercostal muscles respond to the contraction of the diaphragm.