Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) facts. 1  Sudden infant death syndrome is defined as the sudden, unexpected death of an infant younger than 1 year of age. 2  It typically occurs associated with a period of sleep. 3  SIDS is rare during the first month of life. 4  Risk peaks in infants 2-4 months of age and then declines.
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome ». Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is defined as the sudden death of an infant younger than 1 year that remains unexplained after a thorough case investigation, including the performance of a complete autopsy, examination of the scene of death, and review of the clinical history. Read More on Medscape Reference ».
SIDS is the sudden and unexplained death of an infant under 1 year of age. SIDS is sometimes called crib death because the death occurs when a baby is sleeping in a crib. It is one of the leading causes of death in babies from 1 month to 1 year of age, occurring most often between 2 and 4 months of age.
1 Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). 2  SIDS is defined as the sudden death of an infant less than 1 year of age that cannot be explained after a thorough investigation is conducted, including a complete autopsy, examination of the death scene, and a review of the clinical history. 3  About 1,500 infants died of SIDS in 2013.
Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden, unexplained death of an infant younger than one year old. Some people call SIDS crib death because many babies who die of SIDS are found in their cribs. SIDS is the leading cause of death in children between one month and
Definition. Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the unexplained death, usually during sleep, of a seemingly healthy baby less than a year old. SIDS is sometimes known as crib death because the infants often die in their cribs.
Sudden infant death is a tragic event for any parent or caregiver. 1  SIDS is suspected when a previously healthy infant, usually younger than 6 months of age, is found dead following a period of sleep. 2  SIDS is rare during the first month of life. 3  About 90% of SIDS deaths occur in infants younger than 6 months of age.