Barium carbonate is used to purify some chemical solutions and is the primary base material for the manufacture of other barium compounds. Barium forms several other useful compounds. Barium nitrate (Ba(NO 3) 2) burns with a bright green color and is used in signal flares and fireworks. Barium ferrite (BaO·6Fe 2 O 3) is used to make magnets. Barium-137m, a radioactive form of barium produced by the decay of cesium-137, has a relatively short half-life and is commonly used in high school and college physics half-life determination experiments.
The state (phase) of matter is the condition of its molecular structure, which can be temperature-dependent. There are currently 5 known states of matter: solid, liquid, gas, plasma and Bose-Einstein condensates. Solids have a definite volume and shape. They cannot be compressed as t … he molecules in a solid are very closely packed due to strong intermolecular forces that bond the molecules together.
In physics, a state of matter is one of the distinct forms that  matter takes on. Four states of matter are observable in everyday  life: solid, liquid, gas, and plasma. 4 people found this useful. Edit. There are currently 5 known states of matter: solid, liquid, gas, plasma and Bose-Einstein condensates. Solids have a definite volume and shape. They cannot be compressed as t … he molecules in a solid are very closely packed due to strong intermolecular forces that bond the molecules together.
Barium sulfate (or sulphate) is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula BaSO 4. It is a white crystalline solid that is odorless and insoluble in water. It occurs as the mineral barite, which is the main commercial source of barium and materials prepared from it. Barium sulfate is one of the most insoluble salts of sulfate. Its low solubility is exploited in qualitative inorganic analysis as a test for Ba 2+ ions as well as for sulfate.
Potassium sulfate solution reacts with barium bromide solution to produce a precipitate of barium sulfate and a solution of potassium bromide. Write the molecular equation for this reaction. Then write the corresponding net ionic equation. (Include states-of-matter under SATP conditions in your answer. 
Not as such, no. Antimatter is just matter that is charged backwards from what we think of as normal matter. it can be a solid, liquid, gas or plasma just like normal matter … . the only difference is that antimatter uses positrons and anti-protons instead of electrons and protons to create an atom. There are currently 5 known states of matter: solid, liquid, gas, plasma and Bose-Einstein condensates. Solids have a definite volume and shape. They cannot be compressed as t … he molecules in a solid are very closely packed due to strong intermolecular forces that bond the molecules together.
Barium bromide is the chemical compound with the formula BaBr 2. Like barium chloride, it dissolves well in water and is toxic in aqueous solution. BaBr 2 crystallizes in a lead chloride motif, giving white orthorhombic crystals which are deliquescent. In aqueous solution BaBr 2 behaves as a simple salt.
Reaction of barium with water. Barium reacts readily with water to form barium hydroxide, Ba(OH) 2 and hydrogen gas (H 2). The reaction is quicker than that of strontium (immediately above barium in the periodic table) but probably slower than that of radium (immediately below barium in the periodic table). Barium is a silvery white metal. The surface of barium metal is covered with a thin layer of oxide that helps protect the metal from attack by air, but to a lesser extent than the corresponding layer in magnesium.
Next. SolutSolutions of barium bromide and sodium phosphate combine to form solid barium phosphate and aqueous sodium bromideions of barium bromide and sodium phosphate combine to form solid barium phosphate and aqueous sodium bromide. 