Tomato blight, in its different forms, is a disease that attacks a plant’s foliage, stems, and even fruit. Early blight (one form of tomato blight) is caused by a fungus, Alternaria solani, which over-winters in the soil and infected plants. Affected plants underproduce. Leaves may drop, leaving fruit open to sunscald. Blossom Drop: why fruit doesn't set and what to do about it ... Why a tomato cracks and what to do about it ... Tomato sunscald: why too much sun can be hazardous to tomatoes... Blossom end rot: how to identify, treat, and prevent it ...
Early blight’s Latin name is sometimes confused with a form of tomato rot, alternaria, a different tomato problem altogether. To muddle matters further, early blight is occasionally mistaken for Septoria leaf spot because the two diseases infect tomatoes at the same time. Blossom Drop: why fruit doesn't set and what to do about it ... Why a tomato cracks and what to do about it ... Tomato sunscald: why too much sun can be hazardous to tomatoes... Blossom end rot: how to identify, treat, and prevent it ...
Answer: There are three major blights that can attack your tomatoes: Septoria leaf spot, early blight and late blight. All are fungal diseases spread by spores, which require dew or rain to infect the plant. These are most severe in wet weather. 
Late blight of potatoes and tomatoes, the disease that was responsible for the Irish potato famine in the mid-nineteenth century, is caused by the fungus-like oomycete pathogen Phytophthora infestans. It can infect and destroy the leaves, stems, fruits, and tubers of potato and tomato plants. 
Do not can tomatoes with late blight. Tomatoes showing signs of late blight disease have firm, dark brown lesions that quickly become large, wrinkled and somewhat sunken. Diseases such as this may lower the acidity of the tomato flesh to a level that makes it unsafe for canning. Late blight in both tomatoes and potatoes is caused by the oomycete Phytophthora infestans, and is a worldwide destructive disease. Under favorable weather conditions, tomato and potato crops can be destroyed within days.
Early blight is caused by the fungus Alternaria solani, which survives in plant debris or on infected plants. Early blight symptoms typically begin as plant canopies start to close. Denser foliage leads to high humidity and longer periods of leaf wetness that favor the disease. What does early blight look like? Symptoms of early blight first appear at the base of affected plants, where roughly circular brown spots appear on leaves and stems. As these spots enlarge, concentric rings appear giving the areas a target-like appearance.
Although early blight can occur in any type of weather, it favors damp conditions, like frequent rain or even heavy dews. Keep reading for more photos and descriptions of early blight's symptoms. Early blight is a common tomato disease caused by the fungus Alternaria solani. It can affect almost all parts of the tomato plants, including the leaves, stems and fruits. The plants may not die, but they will be weakened and will set fewer tomatoes than normal. Early blight generally attacks older plants, but it can also occur on seedlings. Stressed plants or plants in poor health are especially susceptible. Early blight is also a problem with potatoes.
Early blight is one of two common fungal diseases that can devastate tomatoes in both commercial settings and home gardens. Early blight can also be a serious disease on other popular vegetables including eggplants, peppers, and potatoes. The second common tomato blight, Septoria leaf spot, is detailed in University of Wisconsin Garden Facts XHT1073. What does early blight look like? Symptoms of early blight first appear at the base of affected plants, where roughly circular brown spots appear on leaves and stems. As these spots enlarge, concentric rings appear giving the areas a target-like appearance.
Phytophthora infestans is an oomycete that causes the serious potato disease known as late blight or potato blight. (Early blight, caused by Alternaria solani, is also often called potato blight.) Late blight was a major culprit in the 1840s European, the 1845 Irish and 1846 Highland potato famines. 
The early blight fungus can come from many sources. It can be in the soil, it can already be on seeds or seedlings you purchase, it can over-winter in the diseased debris of your tomato plants and it can persist in the soil or debris for at least 1 year. The plants may not die, but they will be weakened and will set fewer tomatoes than normal. Early blight generally attacks older plants, but it can also occur on seedlings. Stressed plants or plants in poor health are especially susceptible. Early blight is also a problem with potatoes.