Thermohaline circulation The water of the great world ocean is, like its crust and interior, constantly in motion. Currents carrying colossal amounts of water transport it around the globe, by what has been named The Great Ocean Conveyor (Broecker, 1991). One extremely important attribute of thermohaline circulation is that it carries oxygenated water to the deep ocean. The polar seas (the North Atlantic and the Southern Ocean) that produce the frigid water which drives the Great Ocean Conveyer are storm-swept, especially in winter.
As such, the state of the circulation has a large impact on the climate of the Earth. The thermohaline circulation is sometimes called the ocean conveyor belt, the great ocean conveyor, or the global conveyor belt. On occasion, it is used to refer to the meridional overturning circulation (often abbreviated as MOC). The thermohaline circulation is mainly triggered by the formation of deep water masses in the North Atlantic and the Southern Ocean caused by differences in temperature and salinity of the water.
As opposed to wind-driven currents and tides (which are due to the gravity of moon and sun), the thermohaline circulation (Fig. 1) is that part of the ocean circulation which is driven by density differences. Sea water density depends on temperature and salinity, hence the name thermo-haline. 
Thermohaline Circulation. Winds drive ocean currents in the upper 100 meters of the ocean’s surface. However, ocean currents also flow thousands of meters below the surface. These deep-ocean currents are driven by differences in the water’s density, which is controlled by temperature (thermo) and salinity (haline). This process is known as thermohaline circulation. In the Earth's polar regions ocean water gets very cold, forming sea ice. As a consequence the surrounding seawater gets saltier, because when sea ice forms, the salt is left behind. 
Thermohaline circulation (THC) is a part of the large-scale ocean circulation that is driven by global density gradients created by surface heat and freshwater fluxes. The thermohaline circulation is mainly triggered by the formation of deep water masses in the North Atlantic and the Southern Ocean caused by differences in temperature and salinity of the water.
The Global Conveyor Belt. Thermohaline circulation drives a global-scale system of currents called the “global conveyor belt.” The conveyor belt begins on the surface of the ocean near the pole in the North Atlantic. Here, the water is chilled by arctic temperatures. Currents
The thermohaline circulation, often referred to as the ocean's conveyor belt, links major surface and deep water currents in the Atlantic, Indian, Pacific, and Southern Oceans. Multiple mechanisms conspire to increase the density of surface waters at high latitudes. 
1 Thermohaline Ocean Circulation Stefan Rahmstorf The thermohaline circulation is that part of the ocean circulation which is driven by fluxes of heat and freshwater across the sea surface and subsequent interior mixing of heat and salt. The term thus refers to a driving mechanism. 
Thermohaline circulation is a very slow and extremely deep movement of water in the oceans around the world. A complete cycle can take thousands of years to complete from start to finish, with the cycle contributing a great deal to the mixing of the world's oceans. 