Mappa mundi (Latin [ˈmap˝a ˈmʊndi˝] ; plural = mappae mundi) is a general term used to describe Medieval European maps of the world. These maps ranged in size and complexity from simple schematic maps an inch or less across, to elaborate wall maps, the largest of which was 11 ft. (3.5 m.) in diameter. Mappa mundi. Extant mappae mundi come in several distinct varieties, including: (1) Zonal or Macrobian maps, (2) Tripartite or T-O maps, (3) Quadripartite maps (including the Beatus maps), and (4) complex maps.
Such maps range in size and complexity from simple schematic maps an inch or less across to elaborate wall maps, the largest of which was 11 ft. (3.5 m.) in diameter. The term derives from the Medieval Latin words mappa (cloth or chart) and mundi (of the world). Approximately 1,100 mappae mundi are known to have survived from the Middle Ages. Of these some 900 are found illustrating manuscripts and the remainder exist as stand-alone documents. Prior to its destruction in World War II, the Ebstorf map at 3.5 metres (11 ft) across was the largest surviving mappa mundi. Today that honor is held by the Hereford map which is 1.5 metres (4.9 ft) across.
Work of History. More than a reference for geography, the Mappa Mundi is a work of history, zoology, anthropology and especially theology. It reveals how 13th-century scholars interpreted the world in spiritual terms. The map covers all time, from creation to doomsday. Don't think of it as a map, tourists are told. Drawn in England in about 1290, it's called the Mappa Mundi (map of the world). It's the only complete wall map of Earth to have survived from the Middle Ages. It's stunningly beautiful and big and complex. But to us today, it's weird and wildly fanciful.
The Mappa Mundi is housed in Hereford Cathedral and is one of Britain’s finest medieval treasures. The Mappa Mundi can be seen at Hereford Cathedral. The cathedral dates from Saxon times and is dedicated to the martyred King Ethelbert, killed on the orders of King Offa – his magnificent gilded and painted shrine is situated in the retro-choir, near to the Lady Chapel.
A mappa mundi (Latin [ˈmappa ˈmʊndiː] ; plural = mappae mundi) is any medieval European map of the world. Prior to its destruction in World War II, the Ebstorf map at 3.5 metres (11 ft) across was the largest surviving mappa mundi. Today that honor is held by the Hereford map which is 1.5 metres (4.9 ft) across.
Hereford mappa mundi. The Hereford Mappa Mundi is a mappa mundi, of a form deriving from the T and O pattern, dating from ca. 1285. It is currently on display at Hereford Cathedral in Hereford, England. It is the largest medieval map known still to exist. The Hereford Mappa Mundi hung, little regarded, for many years on a wall of a choir aisle in the cathedral. During the troubled times of the Interregnum the map had been laid beneath the floor of Bishop Audley's Chantry where it remained secreted for some time. In 1855 it was cleaned and repaired at the British Museum.
Mappa Mundi. Hereford Cathedral is home to the Hereford Mappa Mundi, one of the world’s unique medieval treasures. Measuring 1.59 x 1.34 metres (5’2” by 4’4”), the map is constructed on a single sheet of vellum (calf skin)
Drawn a single sheet of vellum, the Mappa Mundi reflects the medieval church with Jerusalem at the centre of the world The Hereford Mappa Mundi is an outstanding treasure of the medieval world recording how thirteenth-century scholars interpreted the world in spiritual as well as geographical terms. 
Definition of Mappa Mundi in English: A famous 13th-century map of the world, now in Hereford cathedral, England. The map is round and typical of similar maps of the time in that it depicts Jerusalem at its centre. 