Last Name Meaning & Genealogy Links for the Surname OWEN. Meaning & Origin: Derived from the Welsh first name Owain, probably from the Latin Eugenius and Greek Eugenious meaning well born or noble - similar to the first name, Eugene. The plural OWENS may be a patronymic form of OWEN (meaning son of Owen), or just a variant spelling. Surname Origin: Welsh.
It is a patronymic of Owen, which is derived either from the ancient Celtic personal name Owain, adapted from the Latin Eugenius, meaning well-born, or from the Old Welsh word oen, meaning the lamb. Given the warrior status of the clan, this seems an unlikely explanation. 
In American the meaning of the name Owen is: Young fighter. English Meaning: The name Owen is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Owen is: or Eugene. Greek Meaning: The name Owen is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Owen is: Well-born. Famous bearer: Prince Eugene of Savoy. Welsh Meaning: The name Owen is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Owen is: Young warrior. Also can be a Well-born. 
Owen /owen/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced OH-en. It is of Scottish and Greek origin, and the meaning of Owen is born of yew; youth. Variant of Eoghan. Also variant of the Latin name Eugenius (see Eugene). It may also derive from an old Celtic name meaning born of Esos, referring to a god with a cult in Gaul. 
Last Name Meanings and Origins. Uncover the meaning and origin of your last name, then learn how to create and preserve your own family history for generations to come. Menu › Home | Obituaries | Newspapers. 1. Welsh: patronymic from Owen, with English patronymic-s. 2. Irish: adopted as an Anglicized form by bearers of the Gaelic surname Mac Eoghain (see McEwen)
· just now. Report Abuse. Owens Last name origins & meanings: Welsh: patronymic from Owen, with English patronymic-s. Irish: adopted as an Anglicized form by bearers of the Gaelic surname Mac Eoghain (see McEwen). Tebs · 7 years ago. Thumbs up
Owens is a traditional Welsh surname found in the UK. The name's original roots come from Wales. Owens, son of Owen, is an old personal name from Latin Eugenius or Audoenus. Historically in Welsh Owen is spelt Owain. It can also be found in Ireland (especially in Ulster) as an anglicisation of the surname McKeown. 
Owens /owens/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Scottish and Greek derivation, and the name Owens means born of yew; youth. Owens is an alternate form of Owen (Scottish, Greek): form of Eoghan. Compare last name Ewens. Kreatif forms: Oaowens, Owensoa. Owens is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent surname for all people (#126 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Owen (#36 a year ago) and Ewan are the prominent varying forms of Owens (outside Top 1000) rated in the Top 1000. Variants like Owain are seldom used
Owen is an anglicized variant of the Welsh name Owain, and may appear as both a personal name and as a surname (with or without the s as in Owens [son of Owen]). It can also be an anglicised version of the Irish Eoghan. 