The project would be developed by Enbridge, Inc., a Canadian crude oil and liquids pipeline and storage company. Enbridge claims that the pipeline and terminal, if completed, would provide 104 permanent operating positions created within the company and 113 positions with the associated marine services. 3 m 3 /d). Enbridge expects these pipelines to be completed by 2015. The project, including a marine terminal in Kitimat, is expected to cost C$7.9 billion. The Kitimat terminal would comprise two tanker berth platforms, one serving Very Large Crude Carriers and another serving Suezmax-type condensate tankers.
Enbridge's Line 5 helps to heat homes and businesses, fuel vehicles, and power industry in the state of Michigan. Visit our Line 5 webpages to learn about this vital piece of Michigan energy infrastructure -- and the special precautions we take to safeguard the Straits of Mackinac. Visit our Line 5 webpages. Careers at Enbridge. We’re looking for talented professionals and tradespeople of all skill levels and experience. If you want a career with an innovative, dynamic, growth-oriented company that shares its successes with its employees, Enbridge may be the place for you.
In January 2009, an Enbridge pipeline leaked about 4,000 barrels (640 m 3) of oil southeast of Fort McMurray at the company's Cheecham Terminal tank farm. Most of the spilled oil was contained within berms but about 1% of the oil, about 40 barrels (6.4 m 3), sprayed into the air and coated nearby snow and trees. On January 2, 2010, Enbridge's Line 2 ruptured near Neche, North Dakota, releasing about 3,784 barrels of crude oil, of which 2,237 barrels were recovered. In April 2010, an Enbridge pipeline ruptured spilling more than 9.5 barrels (1.51 m 3) of oil in Virden, Manitoba.
Enbridge is a leader in the safe and reliable delivery of energy in North America. We transport, generate and distribute energy, operating the world’s longest, most sophisticated crude oil and liquids transportation system. More about our company. 
Enbridge, Inc. transports, generates and distributes energy in Canada and U.S. The company is involved in natural gas transmission and midstream businesses. It operates through five business segments: Liquids Pipelines, Gas Distribution, Gas Pipelines, Processing and... Fifth Avenue Place. 
Enbridge, Inc. transports, generates and distributes energy in Canada and U.S. The company is involved in natural gas transmission and midstream businesses. The Gas Distribution segment consists of the company's natural gas utility operations, the core of which is Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc. which serves residential, commercial and industrial customers, primarily in central and eastern Ontario as well as northern New York State.
Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P., (EEP), an Enbridge company, is a leader in the safe and reliable delivery of energy in North America. We transport, generate and distribute energy, operating the world’s longest, most sophisticated crude oil and liquids transportation system. 
The Enbridge Northern Gateway Pipelines is a project to build a twin pipeline from Bruderheim, Alberta to Kitimat, British Columbia. 3 m 3 /d). Enbridge expects these pipelines to be completed by 2015. The project, including a marine terminal in Kitimat, is expected to cost C$7.9 billion. The Kitimat terminal would comprise two tanker berth platforms, one serving Very Large Crude Carriers and another serving Suezmax-type condensate tankers.
Enbridge president Al Monaco was a guest Oct. 8 on CNBC’s Mad Money, talking with host Jim Cramer about Enbridge’s resilient business model that allows the company to avoid the fluctuations of the commodities market – and thrive in the midst of the current crude oil price environment. Learn more at the @enbridge blog. Careers at Enbridge. We’re looking for talented professionals and tradespeople of all skill levels and experience. If you want a career with an innovative, dynamic, growth-oriented company that shares its successes with its employees, Enbridge may be the place for you.
Enbridge also gathers, processes, and transports natural gas. It has interest in the 2,986 kilometres (1,855 mi) Alliance Pipeline and the 560 kilometres (350 mi) Vector Pipeline. Through its subsidiary Enbridge Gas Distribution it is the Canada's largest natural gas distribution utility. On January 2, 2010, Enbridge's Line 2 ruptured near Neche, North Dakota, releasing about 3,784 barrels of crude oil, of which 2,237 barrels were recovered. In April 2010, an Enbridge pipeline ruptured spilling more than 9.5 barrels (1.51 m 3) of oil in Virden, Manitoba.