Pericardial effusion (fluid around the heart) is an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the pericardial cavity. Because of the limited amount of space in the pericardial cavity, fluid accumulation leads to an increased intrapericardial pressure which can negatively affect heart function.
Pericardial effusion, sometimes referred to as fluid around the heart, is the abnormal build-up of excess fluid that develops between the pericardium, the lining of the heart, and the heart itself.
Causes of Pericardial Effusion. Most pericardial effusions are caused by inflammation of the pericardium, a condition called pericarditis. As the pericardium becomes inflamed, extra fluid is produced, leading to a pericardial effusion. Viral infections are one of the main causes of pericarditis and pericardial effusions.
A pericardial effusion is an abnormal amount of fluid between the heart and the pericardium, which is the sac surrounding the heart. Pericardial effusions are associated with many different medical conditions.
Pericardial effusion is the presence of an abnormal amount of fluid and/or an abnormal character to fluid in the pericardial space. It can be caused by a variety of local and systemic disorders, or it may be idiopathic. See the image below.
A Pericardial effusion is a collection of fluid within the pericardial sac, that is between the heart muscle and the sac the heart resides in. Everyone has a small amount of fluid in this space, and pericardial effusions can grow very large over long periods of time if the pericardial sac is able to stretch.
Treatment of pericardial effusion is based on the underlying condition that is causing it and if the effusion is leading to severe symptoms, such as shortness of breath or difficulty breathing. Depending on the cause, the excess fluid may be either rich in protein (exudate) or watery (transudate).
Background. Pericardial effusion is the presence of an abnormal amount of and/or an abnormal character to fluid in the pericardial space. It can be caused by a variety of local and systemic disorders, or it may be idiopathic.