Photosynthesis is a process used by plants in which energy from sunlight is used to convert carbon dioxide and water into molecules needed for growth. These molecules include sugars, enzymes and chlorophyll. Light energy is absorbed by the green chemical chlorophyll. 
Photosynthesis. The net process of photosynthesis is described by the following equation: 6CO2 + 6H2O + Light Energy = C6H12O6 + 6O2. This equation simply means that carbon dioxide from the air and water combine in the presence of sunlight to form sugars; oxygen is released as a by-product of this reaction. 
But because water is both a reactant and a product, the equation can be simplified accounting for net water consumption, which is: 6 CO 2 + 6 H 2 O → C 6 H 12 O 6 + 6 O 2 Carbon dioxide + Water + Light energy → Glucose + Oxygen. Photosynthesis is a lot more complicated than the simplified diagram above. Photosynthesis is the process that plants use to combine light, water, and carbon dioxide to make glucose for energy … and release oxygen.
Photosynthesis converts light energy into the chemical energy of sugars and other organic compounds. This process consists of a series of chemical reactions that require carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water (H 2 O) and store chemical energy in the form of sugar. Light energy from light drives the reactions. 
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which in simpler words is the 'fuel' used by all living things. The photosynthesis equation is a chemical representation of the process of photosynthesis which takes place in the chloroplasts. Plants take in carbon dioxide and water to produce glucose (a sugar) and oxygen. The following is the chemical equation, that expalins this process: In chemical language, this is written as, What does the Equation mean: Photosynthesis occurs in two stages. In the first stage, light-dependent reactions capture energy of light and use it to make the energy-storage molecules called ATP and NADPH. During the second stage, the reactions then use these products to capture and reduce carbon dioxide.
The chemical equation for this process is: 6CO2 + 12H2O + light → C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O. Six molecules of carbon dioxide (6CO 2) and twelve molecules of water (12H 2 O) are consumed in the process, while glucose (C 6 H 12 O 6), six molecules of oxygen (6O 2), and six molecules of water (6H 2 O) are produced. This equation may be simplified as: 6CO2 + 6H2O + light → C6H12O6 + 6O2.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek φῶς, phōs, light, and σύνθεσις, synthesis, putting together.
In photosynthesis, solar energy is converted to chemical energy. The chemical energy is stored in the form of glucose (sugar). Carbon dioxide, water, and sunlight are used to produce glucose, oxygen, and water. Six molecules of carbon dioxide (6CO 2) and twelve molecules of water (12H 2 O) are consumed in the process, while glucose (C 6 H 12 O 6), six molecules of oxygen (6O 2), and six molecules of water (6H 2 O) are produced. This equation may be simplified as: 6CO2 + 6H2O + light → C6H12O6 + 6O2.
The above chemical equation is read as, Six molecules of carbon dioxide plus six molecules of water, produce one molecule of sugar and six molecules of oxygen. What does the Equation mean: Photosynthesis occurs in two stages. In the first stage, light-dependent reactions capture energy of light and use it to make the energy-storage molecules called ATP and NADPH. During the second stage, the reactions then use these products to capture and reduce carbon dioxide.
Solar energy is converted into chemical energy. Photosynthesis is the process whereby plants using light energy from the sun convert carbon dioxide and water to glucose sugar and oxygen gas through a series of reactions. The overall equation for photosynthesis is. Light energy from the sun is converted into chemical energy by the production of glucose molecules. Photosynthesis is carried out in the chloroplasts of plant cells using the green pigment chlorophyll. Glucose is produced which is converted into starch. Starch is a polymer made up of repeating glucose units.