A phenotype (from Greek phainein, meaning to show, and typos, meaning type) is the composite of an organism 's observable characteristics or traits, such as its morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, phenology, behavior, and products of behavior (such as a bird's nest). It may seem that anything dependent on the genotype is a phenotype, including molecules such as RNA and proteins. Most molecules and structures coded by the genetic material are not visible in the appearance of an organism, yet they are observable (for example by Western blotting) and are thus part of the phenotype.
A ratio stating the number of times a specific phenotype occurs in a population in a single generation. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 6 December 2006, at 23:57.This page has been accessed 34,652 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link.
Phenotypes frequencies in a population vary over time.  Phenotypes are determined by genotypes which are determined by  combinations of alleles. If a population is in Hardy- … Weinberg  Equilibrium the allele frequencies will remain constant. Even  though the frequency of each allele remains constant, the way that  the alleles are paired in individuals will vary, changing the  phenotype frequency in each generation.
A phenotype results from the expression of an organism's genes as well as the influence of environmental factors and the interactions between the two. When two or more clearly different phenotypes exist in the same population of a species, the species is called polymorph. It may seem that anything dependent on the genotype is a phenotype, including molecules such as RNA and proteins. Most molecules and structures coded by the genetic material are not visible in the appearance of an organism, yet they are observable (for example by Western blotting) and are thus part of the phenotype.
Genetic variation in populations can be analyzed and quantified by the frequency of alleles. Two fundamental calculations are central to population genetics: allele frequencies and genotype frequencies. Genotype frequency in a population is the number of individuals with a given genotype divided by the total number of individuals in the population. In population genetics, the genotype frequency f. Although allele and genotype frequencies are related, it is important to clearly distinguish them. 
Genotypic frequency is the frequency of a genotype—homozygous recessive, homozygous dominant, or heterozygous—in a population. If you don't know the frequency of the recessive allele, you can calculate it if you know the frequency of individuals with the recessive phenotype (their genotype must be homozygous recessive). LabBench Activity. If you are told that the frequency of a recessive allele in a population is 10%, you are directly given q, since by definition q is the frequency of the recessive allele.
Allelic Frequency. If you are told that the frequency of a recessive allele in a population is 10%, you are directly given q, since by definition q is the frequency of the recessive allele. LabBench Activity. If you are told that the frequency of a recessive allele in a population is 10%, you are directly given q, since by definition q is the frequency of the recessive allele.
A phenotype is the physical trait or feature of an organism that is the effect of a particular genotype. Flower color of snapdragons is one example of a phenotype, and the col … or is determined by which alleles comprise the genotype. If a population is in Hardy- … Weinberg  Equilibrium the allele frequencies will remain constant. Even  though the frequency of each allele remains constant, the way that  the alleles are paired in individuals will vary, changing the  phenotype frequency in each generation.
PHENOTYPE AND GENOTYPE. Definitions: phenotype is the constellation of observable traits; genotype is the genetic endowment of the individual. Phenotype = genotype + development (in a given environment). To consider these in the context of evolutionary biology, we want to know how these two are related. 