The base of a triangle can be any one of the three sides, usually the one drawn at the bottom. You can pick any side you like to be the base. Commonly used as a reference side for calculating the area of the triangle. In an isosceles triangle, the base is usually taken to be the unequal side.
subclavian triangle a triangular area bounded by the clavicle, the sternocleidomastoid muscle, and the omohyoid muscle. suboccipital triangle that lying between the posterior greater rectus muscle of the head and the superior and inferior oblique muscles of the head.
In contrast, the reversed triangle is female and lunar, representing mother earth, water, rain and grace. In Christianity and Judaism, a triangle is often used as a symbol for God and the holy trinity, and in magic it was seen as representing the element fire (with a downward meaning water).
Hi, I am Sherri's 'cyber friend' nurse. The symbol you are referring to is a symbol that Drs. use for the word 'change'. In other words, The medication was (triangle) changed, to such and such. It is a medical symbol for that word.
A single triangle next to a condition simply means 'diagnosis of' Two triangles is a 'differential diagnosis' ie. one of several possible diagnoses being investigated. 3 people found this useful.
triangle. a three-cornered object, figure, or area, such as a delineated area on the surface of the body; called also trigone. carotid triangle, inferior that between the median line of the neck in front, the sternocleidomastoid muscle, and the anterior belly of the omohyoid muscle.
The triangle symbol is also taught in basic science subjects like chemistry to signify change. Hello nursing colleagues, I live in the United States, and I was wondering if medical personnel in other countries use the same shorthand symbols that we do. As examples: lower case c with a line over it means with; lower case s with a line over it means without, a triangle (chevron symbol) means change, etc.
triangle of elbow a triangular area on the front of the elbow, bounded by the brachioradial muscle on the outside and the round pronator muscle inside, with the base toward the humerus. triangle of election superior carotid triangle.