1 People with sickle-cell anemia have a gene that causes the blood protein hemoglobin to form abnormally. 2  As a result, red blood cells are produced in a sickle shape. “ 3 This can cause painful episodes called crises, and even strokes and heart attacks,” Murray says. 1 Sickle-cell anemia. 2  People with sickle-cell anemia have a gene that causes the blood protein hemoglobin to form abnormally. 3  As a result, red blood cells are produced in a sickle shape. “ 4
Inherited Hemolytic Anemia. Two of the most common causes of inherited hemolytic anemia are sickle cell anemia and thalassemia: Sickle cell anemia is a disorder where the body makes abnormal hemoglobin, which in turn causes red blood cells to become crescent-shaped, sickle cells under certain conditions. 
“Some people inherit genes that, one way or another, cause problems with the blood,” Dr. Murray says. Among the types of anemia that can be inherited are: 1  Sickle-cell anemia. 2  People with sickle-cell anemia have a gene that causes the blood protein hemoglobin to form abnormally. 1 Sickle-cell anemia. 2  People with sickle-cell anemia have a gene that causes the blood protein hemoglobin to form abnormally. 3  As a result, red blood cells are produced in a sickle shape. “ 4 This can cause painful episodes called crises, and even strokes and heart attacks,” Murray says
Alloimmune hemolytic anemia. This type of hemolytic anemia occurs if your body makes antibodies against red blood cells that you get from a blood transfusion. This can happen if the transfused blood is a different blood type than your blood. This type of hemolytic anemia also can occur during pregnancy if a woman has. Rh-negative blood and her baby has Rh-positive blood. Rh-negative and Rh-positive refer to whether your blood has Rh factor.
Common Types of Anemia. Iron-deficiency anemia is the most common type of anemia. It happens when you do not have enough iron in your body. Iron deficiency is usually due to blood loss but may occasionally be due to poor absorption of iron. Pregnancy and childbirth consume a great deal of iron and thus can result in pregnancy-related anemia. 
There are three main types of anemia: that due to blood loss, that due to decreased red blood cell production, and that due to increased red blood cell breakdown. Causes of blood loss include trauma and gastrointestinal bleeding, among others. 
There are many types of hemolytic anemia. The condition can be inherited or acquired. Inherited means your parents passed the gene for the condition on to you. Acquired means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it. This can happen if the transfused blood is a different blood type than your blood. This type of hemolytic anemia also can occur during pregnancy if a woman has. Rh-negative blood and her baby has Rh-positive blood. Rh-negative and Rh-positive refer to whether your blood has Rh factor.