When I use the term scholarly source, I mean a source that is peer reviewed or published in a recognized scholarly source, like a journal or a university publisher. The key in looking for a scholarly source is to identify the mechanisms used to ensure that the article is of a high standard. Sometimes we just trust the reputation of a journal or publisher, and sometimes we actually look for a statement about the review process.
Measures of food access. The original version of the Food Desert Locator implemented a single measure of food deserts—low-income areas where a significant number or share of residents is far from a supermarket, where far is more than 1 mile in urban areas and more than 10 miles in rural areas. 
Medical Definition of FOOD. 1. : material consisting essentially of protein, carbohydrate, and fat used in the body of an organism to sustain growth, repair, and vital processes and to furnish energy; also: such material together with supplementary substances (as minerals, vitamins, and condiments). 2. : nutriment in solid form.
Some foods not from animal or plant sources include various edible fungi, especially mushrooms. Fungi and ambient bacteria are used in the preparation of fermented and pickled foods like leavened bread, alcoholic drinks, cheese, pickles, kombucha, and yogurt. Another example is blue-green algae such as Spirulina. Seeds of plants are a good source of food for animals, including humans, because they contain the nutrients necessary for the plant's initial growth, including many healthful fats, such as Omega fats. In fact, the majority of food consumed by human beings are seed-based foods
Genetically modified food controversies are disputes over the use of foods and other goods derived from genetically modified crops instead of conventional crops, and other uses of genetic engineering in food production. Genetically modified crops are planted in fields much like regular crops. There they interact directly with organisms that feed on the crops and indirectly with other organisms in the food chain. The pollen from the plants is distributed in the environment like that of any other crop.
Low access to a healthy food retail outlet is defined as more than 1 mile from a supermarket or large grocery store in urban areas and as more than 10 miles from a supermarket or large grocery store in rural areas. Percentage of people with low access to a supermarket or large grocery store Definition: Percentage of the total population in the census tract that lives more than one mile from a supermarket or large grocery store (urban tracts) or more than 10 miles from a supermarket or large grocery store (rural tracts).
The FAO’s definition of food security includes a provision describing access to “nutritious” food; however, in many low-income areas, it is easier to access cheap, unhealthful food (such as fast food), often produced primarily from commodity crops. 
Definition of FOOD for Kids. 1. : the material that people and animals eat: material containing carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and supplements (as minerals and vitamins) that is taken in by and used in the living body for growth and repair and as a source of energy for activities. 2. 1. : material consisting essentially of protein, carbohydrate, and fat used in the body of an organism to sustain growth, repair, and vital processes and to furnish energy; also: such material together with supplementary substances (as minerals, vitamins, and condiments). 2. : nutriment in solid form.