Even so, the Nile River did not have an especially significant role in ancient Egypt’s religious life; perhaps it was viewed as too consistent and led them to take their world for granted (Baines, 2007). The river provided food in the form of fish, and provided the water for agriculture. The Nile was also an important means of transportation for the ancient Egyptians and enabled trade and communication (Hoyt, 2008).
Confidence votes 1.0K. The role religion took in the lives of Egyptians was that if they did not pray or do rituals they would be punished. if they did something good and prayed they believed they would have a perfect life. 
Ancient Egyptians also learned to fish in the Nile for the large fish that lived there. They built irrigation systems from the River Nile for use of bathing water, drinking water, and to water their crops. It was one of the most important things in Egypt at the time. 
The Nile River has certainly played a critical role in the history of ancient Egypt. Famous as the longest river in the world, the river got its name from the Greek word Neilos, which means valley. The Nile floods the lands in Egypt, leaving behind black sediment. That's why the ancient Egyptians named the river Ar, meaning black.
The ancient Egyptians used the Nile River as it played a big role on the civilization, history and life of Egypt. The Nile River is known for producing soil that is extremely fertile and this makes it easy for the cities in ancient Egypt to grow crops. Most of Egypt has desert land that is dry. If you have never been to Egypt, then you should look at the Nile River. You will be able to find many pictures that have captured the true beauty and essence of the Nile River found on the Internet. Within this article, we will be telling you some facts about the Nile River in ancient Egypt.
The Gift of the Nile: Part 1: Analyzing Documents and Primary Sources What role did Geography play in the everyday life of Ancient Egyptians? Today in class, you will have the opportunity to look at different primary sources and documents on Ancient Egypt and analyze them. The Gift of the Nile: Part 2: Student Inquiry and Research (25 points) What role did Geography play in the everyday life of Ancient Egyptians? You have already identified some questions you have on the importance of geography on Ancient Egyptian life from analyzing your primary sources.
The Nile River was an important factor in the success of ancient Egypt. Without the Nile River, it could never have existed as we know it or have produced the wonders of its civilization that it is known for today. The river provided food in the form of fish, and provided the water for agriculture. The Nile was also an important means of transportation for the ancient Egyptians and enabled trade and communication (Hoyt, 2008).
While it is of course true that access to the Nile River Valley did not in itself guarantee that Egyptian civilization would become as complex as it was, I argue that without the resources made available by the Nile River, the Egyptians would have never been able to do many of the things that they did. The Importance of the Nile River. Posted on September 5, 2012 by Chris. One of the things that has fascinated me the most from our readings so far on Ancient Egypt has been the importance of the Nile River in the development of Egyptian society.
They did have a God of the Nile, ‘Hapy’, who was the bringer of water and fertility (Baines, 2007). Another God associated with the Nile was Osiris, who was a king of Egypt, killed on the river bank by his brother, chopped into pieces and cast into the river (Baines, 2007). Osiris became the god of the afterlife, an important deity in Egyptian life. The river provided food in the form of fish, and provided the water for agriculture. The Nile was also an important means of transportation for the ancient Egyptians and enabled trade and communication (Hoyt, 2008).