Do you have a sixth sense for people who will be successful leaders in the future? Coro is asking ALUMNI, FRIENDS, and SUPPORTERS who know or have access to people with exceptional talent and passion for public affairs to help us recruit the top candidates for the 2016-2017 Coro Fellows Program.
Coro trains ethical, diverse civic leaders nationwide. Coro leaders develop skills; master tools needed to engage and empower communities; gain experience in government, business, labor and not-for-profit community organizations; and participate in special community and political problem solving processes. Coro is asking ALUMNI, FRIENDS, and SUPPORTERS who know or have access to people with exceptional talent and passion for public affairs to help us recruit the top candidates for the 2016-2017 Coro Fellows Program.
Coroplast 4mm and 10mm. Coroplast is corrugated plastic sheet. This plastic sheet is the building material that will serve so many functions, only your imagination is the limit. Coroplast comes in a variety of styles, all based upon the Coroplast high quality corrugated plastic sheet. 
CORO ALUMNI. Grounded in its commitment to connect and support thousands of Coro alumni nation-and world-wide, the Coro National Alumni Association (CNAA) is the official alumni association of the Coro Foundation and its regional centers and programs. Coro is asking ALUMNI, FRIENDS, and SUPPORTERS who know or have access to people with exceptional talent and passion for public affairs to help us recruit the top candidates for the 2016-2017 Coro Fellows Program.
The Emerging Leaders in Public Affairs (ELPA) program at the Coro Center for Civic Leadership is aimed at positioning participants for increased involvement in the electoral process as ethical and effective candidates, campaign staffers, board members, appointees and/or community advocates. Cleveland Executive Fellowship-A Coro Program funded by the Cleveland Foundation is a full-time one-year, immersion fellowship to develop individuals who can serve as Northeast Ohio's future leaders.
Coro is an American non-partisan, non-profit organization best known for its fellowship program dedicated to teaching skills useful in leadership in public affairs to young adults. The organization was founded in San Francisco in 1942 by W. Donald Fletcher, an attorney, and Van Duyn Dodge, an investment counselor. Cleveland Executive Fellowship-A Coro Program funded by the Cleveland Foundation is a full-time one-year, immersion fellowship to develop individuals who can serve as Northeast Ohio's future leaders.
Because of the success of this brand, it has become a generically used tradename and many people in North America today refer to all corrugated plastic as coroplast. A similar product is marketed in Australia under the brand name Corflute. Coroplast operates plants in Vanceburg, Kentucky, and Granby, Quebec. On August 15, 2014, Inteplast Group, the company's major competitor, acquired majority of its assets with an undisclosed amount. Compared with cardboard, Coroplast has the advantages of waterproof, colorfast and corrosion preventive. The Coroplast composition can be altered with anti-static conductive masterbatch. This particular masterbatch produces a conductive, anti-static plastic hollow board sheet.
Posted. · Report post. There are a large number of posts on PC about the sourcing and pricing. The answer is-it depends on how much you purchase and where you live. It could be as cheap at $7 a sheet (white) to $90 a sheet, a typical price for just a few sheets from a sign shop would be $25. Most plastics suppliers want you to purchase large amounts of it, hence why sign shops are a good source. 
CORO-GARD™ is produced to meet the guidelines of the Electronics Industries Association, (EIA), standard IS-5-A, and meets the criteria for MIL-P-83668 (USAF) for physical properties of corrugated plastic sheet, and also meets standard DOD-HDBK-263 for material conductivity and decay time. CORO-GARD™ Conductive Polypropylene Sheet. Coroplast now offers CORO-GARD™ conductive polypropylene profile sheet. CORO-GARD™ sheet is specifically made for the packaging and transportation of sensitive electronic devices that need to be protected from electrostatic damage, (ESD).