Caffeine and Health. In making a decision whether or not to use caffeine -- or any other drug -- it is important to consider the potential adverse effects on health. These can be separated into short term (ie. related to a single dose) and long term. The short term affects of caffeine are much better understood than the long term effects. Because caffeine increases the production of stomach acid it may worsen ulcer symptoms or cause acid reflux (heartburn). Insomnia, poor sleep, and anxiety are well described psychological side effects of caffeine.
When caffeine intakes get in the 9 mg per kg body weight (4 mg per lb), there is an increase in side effects like jitteriness, nervousness, insomnia, headache, dizziness, and gastrointestinal distress, which can obviously have a detrimental effect on performance. All athletes want to know the amount of caffeine required to improve athletic performance. It turns out that a moderate dose is all that’s needed. Moreover, there’s no evidence that additional caffeine provides any greater performance benefit. In fact, higher doses are more likely to cause unwanted side effects.
The more recently recommended caffeine dose for performance improvement is 1 to 3 mg caffeine per kg body weight (0.45-1.4 g per lb). For a 68 kg (150 pound) athlete, that equates to a range of about 70 to 210 mg of caffeine. All athletes want to know the amount of caffeine required to improve athletic performance. It turns out that a moderate dose is all that’s needed. Moreover, there’s no evidence that additional caffeine provides any greater performance benefit. In fact, higher doses are more likely to cause unwanted side effects.
Caffeine and Exercise Performance. Research suggests that caffeine ingestion improves performance during short-term exercise lasting approximately 5 minutes at 90 to 100 percent of maximal oxygen uptake in the laboratory. Caffeine may be the most widely used stimulant in the world. It is found in a variety of plants, dietary sources (including coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, and colas), and non-prescription medications.
The data are pretty convincing that caffeine is effective at improving athletic performance for a number of sports. Caffeine has been shown to improve endurance and time trial performance in cyclists, improve endurance in runners, and improve performance times and power in rowers. All athletes want to know the amount of caffeine required to improve athletic performance. It turns out that a moderate dose is all that’s needed. Moreover, there’s no evidence that additional caffeine provides any greater performance benefit. In fact, higher doses are more likely to cause unwanted side effects.
Most studies, however, found improvements in reaction time. The ingestion of caffeine does not seem to affect long-term memory. At low doses, caffeine improves hedonic tone and reduces anxiety, while at high doses, there is an increase in tense arousal, including anxiety, nervousness, jitteriness. The larger improvement of performance in fatigued subjects confirms that caffeine is a mild stimulant. The effects of caffeine on cognition were reviewed based on the large body of literature available on the topic. Caffeine does not usually affect performance in learning and memory tasks, although caffeine may occasionally have facilitatory or inhibitory effects on memory and learning.
Determining how caffeine improves running performance is difficult because the metabolism of caffeine in the body is complicated, with caffeine quickly broken down into three other compounds that have a variety of effects on the mind and body. How much caffeine is required to enhance running performance? Most of the studies that have found caffeine to improve endurance performance used 3 to 6 mg of caffeine per kg body weight taken one hour before exercise (for a 147-pound [67-kg] runner, 3 mg per kg body weight would require 200 mg of caffeine).
A moderate caffeine intake is considered to be 250 mg/day. In research studies, the amount of caffeine that enhances performance ranges from 1.5 to 4 mg/lb body weight (3 to 9 mg/kg) taken one hour before exercise. For a 150 lb person, this comes to about 225 to 600 mg. More doesn't seem to be better. The truth is, a moderate intake of coffee, cola and other caffeinated beverages does count towards fluid needs -- particularly if you're accustomed to consuming caffeine on a daily basis.