sidebarA. Animals have always played an important role in agriculture. Not only do they provide us with food and fiber, but they also help to recycle nutrients and add to soil fertility. Over recent decades, however, the farming of animals has become increasingly separated from its natural existence on the land. Other common practices on factory farms, such as de-beaking chickens or the tail docking (cutting) of cows and piglets, are said to increase efficiency and safety, but they also cause discomfort, pain, and stress for the animals.
I believe that factory-farming does need to be stopped and can be stopped because we have been able to live without it. The mass production of food has become a trend withing the last 30 to 40 years and in the past we did not have such extreme ways. When it comes to factory farming being considered ethical or not, one must take into consideration all the positive and negative aspects, such as animal brutality, environmental hazards, health issues, consumer satisfaction and profit.
Farmed animals raised for the meat, dairy, and egg industries are among the most abused in the U.S., in numbers so staggering as to be almost incomprehensible. Investigations and industry whistle-blowers have revealed abuses on farms and in slaughterhouses so horrific, most people cannot even bear to witness them. Even when farmed animals are covered by state anti-cruelty laws, prosecution for abuse is rare, due to factors like limited investigative resources and the fact that most abuse occurs behind closed doors at windowless facilities.
Animals and the Environment. Factory farming in the United States clearly violates moral behavior regarding the treatment of livestock. Aside from the argument that killing animals for human consumption constitutes immoral behavior, other factory farming practices clearly do. Not only animals have to pay the price for cheap animal products, but third party humans, too. Nearby families falling ill from the fumes are unable to drink water unless they buy it bottled, and they cannot enjoy being outside. The land is also paying the price for the miserable farming techniques of factory farms.
The organization Fur for Animals can explain what is wrong with mink farms. We have a number of pictures of (small) spaces that are daily practice in free-ranging farms. See also the proclamation for animal rights and manifesto for farm animals. For more information about the living condition of other farm animals or abuse of animals for consumption, see this page. We believe that animals should be treated even better than the minimum demands listed to the left. Click here for our vision on animal rights.
In 1979 the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC), an independent advisory organ of the European Committee, determined that animals in cattle farming have a right to the following 5 freedoms: 1  Freedom from hunger and thirst-by ready access to fresh water and a diet to maintain full health and vigour. For more information about the living condition of other farm animals or abuse of animals for consumption, see this page. We believe that animals should be treated even better than the minimum demands listed to the left. Click here for our vision on animal rights.
The questionable role of vets in farming is not confined to the end of animal’s lives. Vets play a vital part at every stage of a farm animal’s life, treating and preventing disease, but are also complicit in a system in which suffering is inbuilt. Vets who make a living on factory farms are becoming institutionalised. Industrial farms are big businesses where the bottom line is all important. I’ve long admired the work of Patrick Holden and what he has achieved at the helm of this forward thinking organisation. The Trust is engaged in hugely important work to find a truly sustainable solution to feeding the world. I was thrilled to be asked to give my opinion on the role of vets in factory farming.
In my opinion it is unethical because not only does it violate the right of animals but also puts the health of human being endangered. Regardless of what view you follow animals still have right, right that are not respected in farming factory. When it comes to factory farming being considered ethical or not, one must take into consideration all the positive and negative aspects, such as animal brutality, environmental hazards, health issues, consumer satisfaction and profit.
But there is a darker side to the veterinary profession that is hidden from public view. A growing number of vets work on farms that bear no resemblance to Herriot folklore. They work in dimly lit sheds and in abattoirs, and their work helps to prop up the factory farming system. I’ve long admired the work of Patrick Holden and what he has achieved at the helm of this forward thinking organisation. The Trust is engaged in hugely important work to find a truly sustainable solution to feeding the world. I was thrilled to be asked to give my opinion on the role of vets in factory farming.
Life on a Factory Farm. Other common practices on factory farms, such as de-beaking chickens or the tail docking (cutting) of cows and piglets, are said to increase efficiency and safety, but they also cause discomfort, pain, and stress for the animals.