Velcro, which was invented by a Swiss Electrical Engineer George de Mestral, comprises two layers and when both these sides are hard-pressed together, they assist in fixing two surfaces. The thought to invent Velcro hits Mestral’s mind in the year 1941 after coming back from a hunting tour with his dog. 
In 1958, de Mestral filed for a patent application for his hook-and-loop fastener in Switzerland, which was granted in 1961. The term Velcro is a registered trademark of Velcro Industries B.V. Velcro Industries is a privately held worldwide corporation manufacturing consumer and industrial products. Among them is a series of mechanical-based fastening products, including a brand of fabric hook and loop fastener often colloquially referred to by the company name, Velcro.
The Velcro® brand of hook and loop was invented by a man named George de Mestral in the 1940's while hunting in the Jura mountains in Switzerland. Mr. de Mestral, a Swiss engineer, realized that the tiny hooks of the cockle-burs were stuck on his pants and in his dog's fur and wondered how they attached themselves. 
The hook-loop fastener was invented in 1948 by Swiss engineer, Georges de Mestral who lived in Commugny, Switzerland. The idea came to him in 1941 after returning from a hunti … ng trip with his dog in the Alps. He took a close look at the burrs (seeds) that kept sticking to his clothes and his dog's fur. Velcro was invented in Switzerland by a man named George de Mestral after he went hunting in the jura mountains.
Confidence votes 20.2K. The hook-loop fastener was invented in 1948 by Swiss engineer, Georges de Mestral who lived in Commugny, Switzerland. The idea came to him in 1941 after returning from a hunting trip with his dog in the Alps. He took a close look at the burrs (seeds) that kept sticking to his clothes and his dog's fur. A man named George de Mestral found burrs stuck to his pants and dog's fur after a nature hike in 1948. He studied the way the hook-like pattern of the burrs stuck to the clot … h of his pants under a microscope.
Velcro was invented by George de Mestral a Swiss electrical engineer in 1941. This idea of inventing Velcro came to him when one day he returned after a walk from the hills and found cockleburs stuck to his clothes and his dog’s fur. George noticed its natural hook and loop quality and started making a fabric fastener on the same quality.
The original patented hook and loop fastener was invented in 1948 by the Swiss electrical engineer George de Mestral, who patented it in 1955 and subsequently refined and developed its practical manufacture until its commercial introduction in the late 1950s. Velcro Industries is a privately held worldwide corporation manufacturing consumer and industrial products. Among them is a series of mechanical-based fastening products, including a brand of fabric hook and loop fastener often colloquially referred to by the company name, Velcro.
Its amazing no one took advantage of the problem until 1948. George de Mestral, a Swiss engineer, returned from a walk one day in 1948 and found some cockleburs clinging to his cloth jacket. When de Mestral loosened them, he examined one under his microscope. The principle was simple. Fascinating facts about the invention of Velcro by George de Mestral in 1948.