RDBMS. Short for Relational DataBase Management System, RDBMS was originally developed by IBM and is a database that is organized through the use of tables or files that are linked to each other. A good example of a RDBMS is Microsoft SQL or MySQL. Also see: Database
Explain its features. RDBMS is a database management system based on relational model defined by E.F.Codd. Data is stored in the form of rows and columns. The relations among tables are also stored in the form of the table. Features: 
The data in RDBMS is stored in database objects called tables. The table is a collection of related data entries and it consists of columns and rows. Remember, a table is the most common and simplest form of data storage in a relational database. Following is the example of a CUSTOMERS table: 
The general structure of a relational database. A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a database management system (DBMS) that is based on the relational model as invented by E. F. Codd, of IBM's San Jose Research Laboratory. Many popular databases currently in use are based on the relational database model. The most popular definition of an RDBMS is a product that presents a view of data as a collection of rows and columns, even if it is not based strictly upon relational theory. By this definition, RDBMS products typically implement some but not all of Codd's 12 rules.
What is table. The RDBMS database uses tables to store data. A table is a collection of related data entries and contains rows and columns to store data. A table is the simplest example of data storage in RDBMS. Let's see the example of student
We’ll see about RDBMS later in this article. Database management system is the means of controlling databases either in the hard disk in a desktop system or on a network. Database management system is used for creating database, maintained database and provides the means of using the database. DBMS doesn’t consider relationship between the tables.
RDBMS store the data into collection of tables, which might be related by common fields (database table columns). RDBMS also provide relational operators to manipulate the data stored into the database tables. Most RDBMS use SQL as database query language. Edgar Codd introduced the relational database model. Many modern DBMS do not conform to the Codd s definition of a RDBMS, but nonetheless they are still considered to be RDBMS.
DBMS is the abbreviated form of D ata B ase M anagement S ystem. Database management system is a computer software component introduced during 1960’s. It is used for controlling various databases in the desktop computer or server. It was also termed as Navigational Database Management System. Database management system is the means of controlling databases either in the hard disk in a desktop system or on a network. Database management system is used for creating database, maintained database and provides the means of using the database. DBMS doesn’t consider relationship between the tables.
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. RDBMS data is structured in database tables, fields and records. Each RDBMS table consists of database table rows. Each database table row consists of one or more database table fields. RDBMS also provide relational operators to manipulate the data stored into the database tables. Most RDBMS use SQL as database query language. Edgar Codd introduced the relational database model. Many modern DBMS do not conform to the Codd s definition of a RDBMS, but nonetheless they are still considered to be RDBMS.