After the ulcer is healed, the dose to prevent future duodenal ulcers is famotidine 20 mg, taken once daily at bedtime. Famotidine Dosing for Gastric Ulcers. The recommended famotidine dosage for treating gastric (stomach) ulcers is famotidine 40 mg, taken at bedtime. Famotidine Information. The recommended famotidine dose for treating duodenal ulcers (upper intestinal ulcers) is famotidine 40 mg, taken at bedtime; or famotidine 20 mg, taken twice daily.
1 Short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer. 2  Most adult patients heal within 4 weeks; there is rarely reason to use PEPCID at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks. 3  Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than eight weeks. 1 Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than eight weeks. 2  Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of an active ulcer. 3  Controlled studies in adults have not extended beyond one year.
PEPCID is indicated in: 1  Short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer. 2  Most adult patients heal within 4 weeks; there is rarely reason to use PEPCID at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks. 3  Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than eight weeks. 1 Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than eight weeks. 2  Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of an active ulcer. 3  Controlled studies in adults have not extended beyond one year.
1 If you have esophagitis (inflammation of the esophagus), the dose is usually 20 or 40 mg twice daily for up to 12 weeks. 2  For children under a year of age who have GERD, the usual starting dose is 0.5 mg for every kilogram (2.2 pounds) of body weight of oral Pepcid for up to 8 weeks. 1 For children under a year of age who have GERD, the usual starting dose is 0.5 mg for every kilogram (2.2 pounds) of body weight of oral Pepcid for up to 8 weeks. 2  It's given once daily to those under three months and twice daily to those older than 3 months but less than one year.
Also, the recommended Pepcid dosage for treating ulcers in adults is 40 mg daily, while the Pepcid dosage for treating ulcers in children ages 1 to 16 is 0.5 mg per kg per day (about 0.23 mg per pound per day). Pepcid Dosage for Duodenal Ulcers. The recommended Pepcid dose for treating duodenal ulcers (upper intestinal ulcers) is Pepcid 40 mg, taken at bedtime; or Pepcid 20 mg, taken twice daily. Pepcid can also be used to prevent duodenal ulcers from returning. After the ulcer is healed, the dose to prevent future duodenal ulcers is Pepcid 20 mg, taken once daily at bedtime. Pepcid Dosage for Gastric Ulcers. The recommended Pepcid dosage for treating gastric (stomach) ulcers is Pepcid 40 mg, taken at bedtime
1 For children with peptic ulcers who are age 1 to 16 years, the dose is usually 0.5mg per kg of body weight at bedtime or twice a day up to 40 mg daily. 2  For children ages 1 to 16 years with GERD, the dose is 1 mg per kg of weight a day, or divided twice a day up to 40 mg. 1 For children under a year of age who have GERD, the usual starting dose is 0.5 mg for every kilogram (2.2 pounds) of body weight of oral Pepcid for up to 8 weeks. 2  It's given once daily to those under three months and twice daily to those older than 3 months but less than one year.
Duodenal Ulcer. Acute Therapy: The recommended adult oral dosage for active duodenal ulcer is 40 mg once a day at bedtime. Most patients heal within 4 weeks; there is rarely reason to use PEPCID at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks. A regimen of 20 mg b.i.d. is also effective. Maintenance Therapy: The recommended adult oral dose is 20 mg once a day at bedtime. 1 Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than eight weeks. 2  Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of an active ulcer. 3  Controlled studies in adults have not extended beyond one year.
However, for children ages 1 to 16, the recommended famotidine dose for treating GERD is 0.5 mg per kg (about 0.23 mg per pound), taken twice daily, up to a maximum of 40 mg twice a day. The dose of famotidine (Pepcid ®) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: The recommended famotidine dose for treating duodenal ulcers (upper intestinal ulcers) is famotidine 40 mg, taken at bedtime; or famotidine 20 mg, taken twice daily.