Carbonization (or carbonisation) is the term for the conversion of an organic substance into carbon or a carbon-containing residue through pyrolysis or destructive distillation. This carbonization, which can also be seen as a spontaneous breakdown of the wood, continues until only the carbonised residue called charcoal remains. Unless further external heat is provided, the process stops and the temperature reaches a maximum of about 400째C.
Carbonization differs from coalification in that it occurs much faster, due to its reaction rate being faster by many orders of magnitude. For the final pyrolysis temperature, the amount of heat applied controls the degree of carbonization and the residual content of foreign elements. This carbonization, which can also be seen as a spontaneous breakdown of the wood, continues until only the carbonised residue called charcoal remains. Unless further external heat is provided, the process stops and the temperature reaches a maximum of about 400째C.
Carbonization is often exothermic, which means that it could in principle be made self-sustaining and be used as a source of energy that does not produce carbon dioxide. (See. ) In the case of glucose, the reaction releases about 237 calories per gram. This carbonization, which can also be seen as a spontaneous breakdown of the wood, continues until only the carbonised residue called charcoal remains. Unless further external heat is provided, the process stops and the temperature reaches a maximum of about 400째C.
carbonize-turn into carbon, as by burning; carbonize coal. carbonise. change state, turn-undergo a transformation or a change of position or action; We turned from Socialism to Capitalism; The people turned against the President when he stole the election. Translations. 1. carbonize-unite with carbon; carburize metal. carbonise, carburise, carburize. chemical science, chemistry-the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and reactions.
Definition of CARBONIZER. : one that carbonizes: such as a: a worker who carbonizes wool fabrics b: one that fills retorts. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Carbonization is also a stage in the charcoal making process, and is considered the most important step of all since it has such power to influence the whole process from the growing tree to the final distribution of charcoal to various sources. This carbonization, which can also be seen as a spontaneous breakdown of the wood, continues until only the carbonised residue called charcoal remains. Unless further external heat is provided, the process stops and the temperature reaches a maximum of about 400째C.
The Carbonizer Mk16 is an energy-based weapon developed by The Trust. It is a heavy weapon that fires a long, powerful beam of high energy plasma. The beam's strength increases the longer it is fired. [Source]. The Carbonizer Mk16 is an energy-based weapon developed by The Trust. It is a heavy weapon that fires a long, powerful beam of high energy plasma. The beam's strength increases the longer it is fired. It is described as cooking the target's body inside out.
Definition of CARBONIZE. transitive verb. 1. : to convert into carbon or a carbonic residue. 2. : carburize 1. intransitive verb. : to become carbonized: char. See carbonize defined for kids.
verb. 1 Convert or be converted into carbon, typically by heating or burning or during fossilization: [with object]: the steak was carbonized on the outside. More example sentences. 1  If you don't stir it, the porridge on the base of the pan will reach the high temperature of the hot plate and carbonise-ie burn! 2  When drilling a deep hole in timber, periodically clean the waste out of the flutes, otherwise it will carbonise, overheat the bit and burn the timber.