Coal (from the Old English term col, which has meant mineral of fossilized carbon since the 13th century) is a combustible black or brownish-black sedimentary rock usually occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds or coal seams. Coal is extracted from the ground by coal mining, either underground by shaft mining, or at ground level by open pit mining extraction. Since 1983 the world top coal producer has been China. In 2011 China produced 3,520 million tonnes of coal – 49.5% of 7,695 million tonnes world coal production.
Fossil fuels, including coal, oil and natural gas, are currently the world's primary energy source. Formed from organic material over the course of millions of years, fossil fuels have fueled U.S. and global economic development over the past century. As conventional oil from underground reservoirs runs out, more oil producers are turning to unconventional sources such as tar sands and oil shale. Coal. Coal is primarily used to generate electricity and is responsible for 39 percent of the electric power supply in the United States in 2014 (down from half in 2007).
Coal is the largest source of energy for the generation of electricity worldwide, as well as one of the largest worldwide anthropogenic sources of carbon dioxide releases. In 1999, world gross carbon dioxide emissions from coal usage were 8,666 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. Coal is extracted from the ground by coal mining, either underground by shaft mining, or at ground level by open pit mining extraction. Since 1983 the world top coal producer has been China. In 2011 China produced 3,520 million tonnes of coal – 49.5% of 7,695 million tonnes world coal production.
Cannel coal of the Pennsylvanian subperiod from NE Ohio used to produce coal oil. Coal oil is a shale oil obtained from the destructive distillation of cannel coal, mineral wax, or bituminous shale, once used widely for illumination. In the United States, coal oil was widely manufactured in the 1850s under the trade name Kerosene, manufactured by a process invented by Canadian geologist Abraham Gesner. Young triumphed in his patent lawsuit against the Gesner process in the United States in 1860
Coal oil used to be used to treat athlete's foot. Some people used to apply coal oil to their hair using a fine toothed comb in order to remove head lice. At one time, coal oil was a common remedy used to treat colds and influenza. Coal oil was once a common remedy for a cough. 
Coal is a combustible sedimentary rock composed mostly of carbon and hydrocarbons. It is the most abundant fossil fuel produced in the United States, but it is a nonrenewable resource. The energy in coal comes from the energy stored by plants that lived hundreds of millions of years ago in swampy forests. It is the most commonly used type of coal for electric power generation in the United States. It is a dark, hard coal that has a higher heating value than lignite and subbituminous coal, but a lower heating value than anthracite.
Of the three fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas), gas releases least carbon dioxide (CO2), so if fossil fuel has to be used, gas is the best. Gas is also cleaner burnin … g, and easier to transport than coal or oil. Gas can be delivered in canisters or through a pipeline from the street. Cleaning and tuning of burners and furnaces is easier as well, plus there is no objectionable smells from normal use. 
Coal. Coal is the largest domestically produced source of energy in America and is used to generate a significant chunk of our nation’s electricity. The Energy Department is working to develop technologies that make coal cleaner, so we can ensure it plays a part in our clean energy future. 
In the early 19th century it was discovered that coal oil distilled from cannel coal could be used in lamps as an illuminant, although the early coal oil burned with a smokey flame, so that it was used only for outdoor lamps; cleaner-burning whale oil was used in indoor lamps. In the United States, coal oil was widely manufactured in the 1850s under the trade name Kerosene, manufactured by a process invented by Canadian geologist Abraham Gesner. Young triumphed in his patent lawsuit against the Gesner process in the United States in 1860