While it is still more than okay to eat an egg a day, an egg comes with 80 calories along with at least 5 grams of fat. Therefore, you should watch your egg intake if you are especially conscious of calorie and fat levels. While one egg a day is alright, don't go overboard and start eating a few eggs every day. One way you can cut down on the fat if you want an egg a day is to simply prepare it on a non-stick pan without butter or oil.
In spite of the cholesterol levels, eggs offer nutrients beneficial to your body. Two whole, extra-large, large or medium eggs contain 160, 143 and 126 calories, respectively. Two large eggs offer you 13 g protein, which can help if you follow a high-protein diet. If your LDL cholesterol level is more than 100 mg, or you have been diagnosed with heart disease, you should only eat 200 mg cholesterol a day. If you do not have either of these conditions, you can have 100 mg more. Unfortunately, two eggs a day places your cholesterol levels beyond both recommended levels.
With eggs being a very common food that you can find as a part of any meal of the day, answering the question of whether it is okay to eat an egg each day is important. The Nutrient-and Energy-Dense Egg. An egg is an excellent source of fats, proteins and vitamins. While one egg a day is alright, don't go overboard and start eating a few eggs every day. One way you can cut down on the fat if you want an egg a day is to simply prepare it on a non-stick pan without butter or oil.
When you eat more cholesterol from foods like eggs, your body produces less of it. And when you eat less cholesterol from foods like eggs, your body produces more. That's because you have a cholesterol set point.. Think of it like a thermostat that's largely determined by your genetics, exercise habits, and stress. But, eat a lot of carbohydrates, sugar, and fat (from eggs or any other high fat / high cholesterol food) and many disease risks go up. In the end -- for most people -- eggs won't increase blood cholesterol or the risk of heart or artery disease.
Super high in cholesterol. If you practice you can separate the egg white from the yolk once you have cracked the egg. Dispose of the yolk and only cook and eat the egg white. The protein in the egg could be what is making your feel full for so long. You hear that eggs are so bad for you. I'm trying to lose weight and eat healthy. However when i eat cereal or a small muffin in the morning i'm usually starving around 11am and i'll look for anything to eat here in the office and sometimes its bad things, likes cake, donuts etc.
And, well, eggs are good. :) Great for breakfast as they focus the mind and body for a good part of the day, and get you nice and full. If you are worried about fat and cholesterol, feel free to just discard/give away the yolk. My sister used to eat hard-boiled eggs almost everyday. She said it was almost enough to fill her the whole day, and that is saying something for a type-1 diabetic. Lol. Hard-boiled eggs are a very quick, surprisingly filling food for breakfast. You can just grab and go. 
Of course, diets high in sugar aren't ideal, whether you eat eggs or not. But, eat a lot of carbohydrates, sugar, and fat (from eggs or any other high fat / high cholesterol food) and many disease risks go up. In the end -- for most people -- eggs won't increase blood cholesterol or the risk of heart or artery disease.
Eat only the whites from your two boiled eggs, and you consume no cholesterol and less than 35 calories. You can scramble one egg white and one whole egg together for breakfast, or use commercially available cholesterol-free egg substitutes when baking or eating eggs alone. If your LDL cholesterol level is more than 100 mg, or you have been diagnosed with heart disease, you should only eat 200 mg cholesterol a day. If you do not have either of these conditions, you can have 100 mg more. Unfortunately, two eggs a day places your cholesterol levels beyond both recommended levels.
Sure, you can eat an egg and cheese everyday. It is certainly better than cake and donuts. Add a piece of fruit as a mid-morning snack. Cholesterol is not 'the boogyman' (my opinion), if you are concerned talk to a nutritionist and/or have your blood checked. Your body makes cholesterol as well. You hear that eggs are so bad for you. I'm trying to lose weight and eat healthy. However when i eat cereal or a small muffin in the morning i'm usually starving around 11am and i'll look for anything to eat here in the office and sometimes its bad things, likes cake, donuts etc.
Eggs contain a high amount of cholesterol, which is often a concern for people trying to avoid heart disease. A large egg has over 50 percent of the recommended daily intake. MayoClinic.com notes that eating four whole eggs a week or less has not been shown to raise the risk of heart disease risk. 