Priming Engine: In the event the engine has run out of fuel, priming will be necessary, due to air in filters, lines, lift pump, injector pump, injector lines, and injectors. The following procedure should be followed: 1. Add a minimum of 10 - 20 gallons of fuel to tank. 2. Fill fuel filters. 3. 
Garage. priming fuel pump zrt. i have a issue with my fuel pump replaced all the fuel line on the pump and cannot get the air pockets out of the line put an air hose to the tank hopeng to get it to prime any suggestions would sure help. __________________. [/img]There are 293 million people living in the United States.
Stand well clear of the engine and have an assistant turn the ignition key to start the car. The car should run for five seconds or so and then die. Repeat the spray-and-die procedure until you see fuel begin to wet the rag on the fuel line. Reconnect the fuel line to the carburetor. Remove the engine's air filter top to expose the carburetor. Identify the carburetor's fuel bowl vents; the fuel bowl vents serve as a sort of chimney for the bowls, preventing damage due to pressure or vacuum.
The fuel pump is used in any car where gravity cannot be used to pump the fuel into the system. There are two types of engines. The first is known as a carborated engine and the other is known as a fuel injected engine. The fuel injected engine in most cases will use an electric fuel pump. Step 2 - Flip the Switch. There should be a prime switch located on the fuel pump line. Flick the switch to prime the fuel pump. You can prime the fuel pump a couple of times but do not leave it in the on position.
Priming the Fuel Pump. Disconnect the hose that connects the fuel pump to the carburetor. For rubber lines, this will typically involve removing a hose clamp; other engines will require that you remove the line from the carburetor with a wrench. Place a rag over the end of the open fuel line. Remove the engine's air filter top to expose the carburetor. Identify the carburetor's fuel bowl vents; the fuel bowl vents serve as a sort of chimney for the bowls, preventing damage due to pressure or vacuum.
1 For normal automobile operation, you will not need to prime your electric fuel pump. 2  A prime switch is also used for safety reasons. 3  You can use the prime switch when your engine may seem to start to die or when the filters in the car become clogged. Step 2 - Flip the Switch. There should be a prime switch located on the fuel pump line. Flick the switch to prime the fuel pump. You can prime the fuel pump a couple of times but do not leave it in the on position.
Priming the Carburetor. Remove the engine's air filter top to expose the carburetor. Identify the carburetor's fuel bowl vents; the fuel bowl vents serve as a sort of chimney for the bowls, preventing damage due to pressure or vacuum.
An electric fuel pump is an essential component which can be found in your car. The fuel pump is used to make sure the natural gas or propane travels through to the engine. The fuel must travel through a hose, also called the fuel line, and it is the job of the fuel pump to make sure the gas reaches the proper location. Step 2 - Flip the Switch. There should be a prime switch located on the fuel pump line. Flick the switch to prime the fuel pump. You can prime the fuel pump a couple of times but do not leave it in the on position.
Instructions. Park your car and turn it off. Let it sit for a few hours so that the engine will cool down. Put on a pair of protective gloves and lift the car's hood. Locate the fuel tank and look inside to find the fuel pump. Flip the switch that is located on the pump line to prime it and let it run. You should hear a humming sound. When the process is finished, turn the switch off. Clean up your area and any excess fuel. Close the hood. Wash your hands and test the car. 