A rheumatologist is a medical doctor who specializes in treating rheumatic conditions and diseases. Typically an internist or pediatrician, rheumatologists analyze, diagnose, and treat the different illnesses that affect your joints, bones, and muscles. Rheumatologists are most commonly associated with arthritis diagnosis and treatment, although they also help treat a number of other rheumatic conditions, including: 1  musculoskeletal pain. 2  osteoporosis. 3  osteoarthritis. 4  gout. 5  lupus and other autoimmune diseases.
Rheumatologists treat arthritis, certain autoimmune diseases, musculoskeletal pain disorders and osteoporosis. There are more than 100 types of these diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, gout, lupus, back pain, osteoporosis, fibromyalgia and tendonitis. 
A rheumatologist is a physician who specializes in the diagnosis, management, and treatment of rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases (e.g., arthritis, lupus). Rheumatic diseases are characterized by pain and inflammation in the joints and associated structures, and muscle soreness and stiffness. 
A rheumatologist is a board-certified internist or pediatrician who is qualified by additional training and experience in the diagnosis and treatment of arthritis and other diseases of the joints, muscles, and bones. There are more than 100 types of rheumatologic diseases, including: 1  osteoarthritis. 2  rheumatoid arthritis. 3  certain autoimmune diseases, such as lupus, antiphospholipid syndrome, scleroderma. 4  musculoskeletal pain disorders. 5  osteoporosis. 6  gout. 7  back pain. 8  myositis. 9  fibromyalgia
Rheumatologists treat arthritis, autoimmune diseases, pain disorders affecting joints, and osteoporosis. There are more than 200 types of these diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, gout, lupus, back pain, osteoporosis, and tendinitis. Some of these are very serious diseases that can be difficult to diagnose and treat.
A rheumatologist is an internal medicine physician or pediatrician who is qualified by additional training and experience in the diagnosis and treatment of arthritis and other diseases of the joints, muscles, bones, and connective tissue. Treatment includes the use of medications, joint injections, and physical therapy. Rheumatologists also treat auto-immune forms of arthritis including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis.
Rheumatologists are physicians who specialize in the diagnosis and management of disorders related to joints, muscles, and other connective tissue. They are non-surgical musculoskeletal disease experts who deliver treatment through medication therapy, joint injections, rehabilitation, and patient education. Rheumatologists are specially trained to do the detective work necessary to discover the cause of your symptoms. It is important to determine the diagnosis early, so that appropriate treatment can be started.
A rheumatologist is physician who is qualified by additional training and experience in the diagnosis and treatment of arthritis and other diseases of the joints, muscles and bones. Many rheumatologists conduct research to determine the cause and better treatments for these disabling and sometimes fatal diseases. What do rheumatologists treat? Rheumatologists treat arthritis, certain autoimmune diseases, musculoskeletal pain disorders and osteoporosis. There are more than 100 types of these diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, gout, lupus, back pain, osteoporosis, fibromyalgia and tendonitis.
As we have discussed in the past, a rheumatologist can treat a wide variety of diseases and conditions. Many people know that arthritis (both osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis), lupus, and fibromyalgia are best treated by a rheumatologist. What most people don’t know is that these diseases fall into a confusing category called autoimmune diseases.