The following are challenges in governing the new nation under the Articles of Confederation: 1  Congress (the central government) was made up of delegates chosen by the states and could conduct foreign affairs, make treaties, declare war, maintain an army and a navy, coin money, and establish post offices. 
The Articles established powers that the national Congress was  given by the states. The document was extremely weak in providing  revenue, and could not control the conflicting authority of the  separate states. The Articles created a league of free and independent states with a limited national government. In 1776, they represented the first agreement among the separate colonies to b … ecome a union of states. Daijah Darcueil. 11 Contributions.
The Congress, called the “Congress of the Confederation” under the Articles, was based upon the institutions of the Second Continental Congress and, as such, was a unicameral body where each state had one vote. 
Congress, as it is constructed in the First Article, is a deviation from the Congress of Confederation that was set up by the Articles of Confederation in 1781. The Congress of Confederation was a unicameral legislative body that had minimal authority when compared to the power granted to the States. The first three Articles of the Constitution define what was to become the three branches of Government in the United States, with each addressing each branch. The First Article of the Constitution provides for the structure of the Legislative Branch.
The Articles of Confederation were written in 1776 to establish a  framework for the collaboration of the 13 American colonies that  were fighting for their freedom from Bri … tain, but was not passed  until 1781. A unified government (the United States) was seen as  preferable in limited respects. The Articles created a league of free and independent states with a limited national government. In 1776, they represented the first agreement among the separate colonies to b … ecome a union of states. Daijah Darcueil. 11 Contributions.
The simple answer is legislative, though more appropriately Congress. This is, however, slightly misleading. The Articles of Confederation set up a government with ONLY one body, a unicameral (one-house) Congress, so it's hardly proper to speak of a branch. Rather ALL governmental functions it had-legislative, executive or judicial-divided amongst three branches under the Constitution, rested with this body
When were the Articles of Confederation agreed to by Congress and ratified? A. agreed to by Congress in 1767; ratified in 1775 B. agreed to by Congress in 1776; ratified in 1786 C. agreed to by Congress in 1777; ratified in 1781 D. agreed to by Congress in 1787; ratified in 1788.
The national government under the Articles of Confederation consisted of a single legislative body, called the Congress of the United States. The national government had limited powers under the Articles of Confederation. For example, the central government could not levy taxes or regulate commerce. Additionally, there was not an executive or judicial branch of government under the Articles. Because the government under the Articles of Confederation did not have enough power, problems began to emerge. 1  States were printing their own money in violation of national law
User: What was the structure of the legislative body created by the Articles of Confederation? A. bicameral B. unicameral C. tri-cameral D. separated powers Weegy: c selymi|Points 6203|User: The English Civil War was the result of A. England wanting freedom of religion.