The ventricles are shown in blue on the following midsagittal section of the brain. The Ventricles CSF is produced mainly by a structure called the choroid plexus in the lateral, third and fourth ventricles. CSF flows from the lateral ventricle to the third ventricle through the interventricular foramen (also called the foramen of Monro). The third ventricle and fourth ventricle are connected to each other by the cerebral aqueduct (also called the Aqueduct of Sylvius). CSF then flows into the subarachnoid space through the foramina of Luschka (there are two of these) and the foramen of Magendie (only one of these).
The roof of the third ventricle is formed by a thin layer of ependyma. The lateral walls are formed mainly by the medial surfaces of the 2 thalami.The lower lateral wall and the floor of the ventricle are formed by the hypothalamus and subthalamus. The Third Ventricle. The third ventricle (in blue) is a narrow vertical cleft between the 2 lateral ventricles. It possesses a roof, a floor and four walls: anterior, posterior and two lateral. The roof is formed by the tela choroidea
The fourth ventricle has a roof dorsally and a floor ventrally. The roof of the fourth ventricle is formed by the cerebellum (superior and inferior medullary vela). The fastigium, (Latin for summit), is used to refer to the peak of the fourth ventricle. The fastigial nucleus lies immediately above the roof of the fourth ventricle.
The third ventricle (ventriculus tertius) is one of four connected fluid-filled cavities comprising the ventricular system within the human brain. Running through the third ventricle is the interthalamic adhesion, which contains thalamic neurons and fibers that may connect the two thalami.
Their position in the roof of the third ventricle immediately adjacent to foramen of Monro can on occasion result in sudden obstructive hydrocephalus and can present with a thunderclap headache or unconscious collapse. 
The third ventricle communicates with the lateral ventricles anteriorly by the interventricular foramina (of Monro). It also communicates with the fourth ventricle posteriorly by the cerebral aqueduct (of Sylvius). Running through the third ventricle is the interthalamic adhesion, which contains thalamic neurons and fibers that may connect the two thalami.
The third ventricle is bounded by the thalamus and hypothalamus on both the left and right sides. The lamina terminalis forms the anterior wall. The floor is formed by hypothalamic structures. The roof is formed by the ependyma, lining the undersurface of the tela choroidea of the third ventricle. Running through the third ventricle is the interthalamic adhesion, which contains thalamic neurons and fibers that may connect the two thalami.
Cerebrospinal fluid flows into the third ventricle through openings in its roof called the foramen of Monroe. The two foramen of Monroe are connected to the left and right lateral ventricles above. The fornix forms the roof of the third ventricle. The fornix starts in the hippocampus toward the rear and floor of the third ventricle. It then arches over and connects to the hypothalamus toward the front and bottom of the third ventricle. The hippocampus plays an important role in memory as does the hypothalamus.