The Yucatan Peninsula is an area in southeastern Mexico that separates the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. The peninsula itself is home to the Mexican nations of Yucatan, Campeche and Quintana Roo. It also covers the northern parts of Belize and Guatemala. 1) The Yucatan Peninsula itself belongs to the Yucatan Platform-a large chunk of land that is partially submerged. The Yucatan Peninsula is the portion that is above the water. 2) It is believed that the mass extinction of the dinosaurs was caused by an asteroid impact in the Caribbean.
9) The Yucatan Peninsula is home to many tropical rainforests and jungles and the area between Guatemala, Mexico and Belize is the largest continuous area of tropical rainforest in Central America. 10) The name Yucatan also includes the Yucatan state of Mexico that is located on the peninsula. It is a large state with an area of 14,827 square miles (38,402 sq km) and a 2005 population of 1,818,948 people. The capital of Yucatan is Merida. 1) The Yucatan Peninsula itself belongs to the Yucatan Platform-a large chunk of land that is partially submerged. The Yucatan Peninsula is the portion that is above the water. 2) It is believed that the mass extinction of the dinosaurs was caused by an asteroid impact in the Caribbean.
Iberian peninsula map and information page. Iberian Peninsula. Located on the southwestern tip of the European continent, the Iberian Peninsula, includes the countries of Andorra, Portugal and Spain, and the British Crown colony of Gibraltar. At the nearest point, it is only 5 miles (8km) from the continent of Africa. print this map.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Located in southern Europe, Italy is a peninsula extending into the Central Mediterranean Sea. It is shaped like a high-heeled boot kicking a triangle—the island of Sicily. Italy borders France to the west, Switzerland and Austria to the north, and Slovenia to the east
A peninsula can also be a headland, cape, island promontory, bill, point, or spit. A point is generally considered a tapering piece of land projecting into a body of water that is less prominent than a cape. In English, the plural of peninsula is peninsulas or, less commonly, peninsulae. The Balkans is a peninsula including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and the European part of Turkey.
The whole land mass encompassing North and South Korea is a peninsula, surrounded by the Sea of Korea on the east, the East China Sea to the south, and the West Sea to the west, the Korea Strait connecting the first two bodies of water. The Balkans is a peninsula including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and the European part of Turkey.
A peninsula (Latin: paeninsula from paene almost and insula island) is a piece of land that is bordered by water on three sides but connected to mainland. The surrounding water is usually understood to belong to a single contiguous body, but is not always explicitly defined as such. The Balkans is a peninsula including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and the European part of Turkey.
Florida Peninsula is the portion of Florida that extends south from the mainland of the southeastern US. It is approximately 300 miles long and 160 miles across at its widest point, with the Gulf of Mexico on the west coast and the Atlantic Ocean to the east. A peninsula can be formed by rising or falling sea level that may expose or cover portions of land to form a peninsula. An uplift or fall of landmass may also help to form a peninsula. A separation of landmasses over millions of years can create a penisula.
Geographic. Arabian Peninsula is located in southwest Asia and is surrounded by the Red Sea on the west, the Arabian Sea on the south, and the Persian Gulf on the east. The Peninsula includes Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Oman, the United Arab Emirate, Bahrain, Qatar, and Kuwait. 