Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Henna is a plant whose leaves contain a red dye molecule. The leaves are powdered and mixed with an acidic liquid to release the dye, and the paste leaves stain on skin, hair, and fingernails. The henna dye forms a permanent chemical bond with the keratin in your body. So it's permanent on hair and nails, and it stays in the skin until the layers that are dyed exfoliate and shed. 
Henna is a plant. The leaf is used to make medicine. Don’t confuse henna with henna root (Alkanna tinctoria), also referred to as alkanna root. Historically, henna has been used for severe diarrhea caused by a parasite (amoebic dysentery), cancer, enlarged spleen, headache, jaundice, and skin conditions. These days, people take henna for stomach and intestinal ulcers. In manufacturing, henna is used in cosmetics, hair dyes, and hair care products; and as a dye for nails, hands, and clothing. People also use henna on the skin as temporary “tattoos.”.
Your skin is just as important as your hair. We all want to look good and that is what henna hut is all about! Making you look and feel good is our number 1 priority! Our products are not just products that are tossed together, they are products that have been used for thousands of years and improved as time goes by. 
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin, hair and fingernails, as well as fabrics including silk, wool and leather. The name is used in other skin and hair dyes, such as black henna and neutral henna, neither of which is derived from the henna plant. 
Don't do a skin test with PPD black henna. Your skin might not react to PPD the first time you use it. Since the reaction can take three weeks or more to show, or in some cases appears only after a second exposure, it is not safe to assume that a 24 hour skin test is going to tell you if you are sensitive. The FDA classifies 100% pure henna as so safe for hair that it is exempt from regulation. Traditional pure henna rarely causes any difficulty on the unbroken skin of a healthy adult. Henna should NOT be used on infants, or children known to have G6PD deficiency.
Henna seems to be safe for most adults when used on the skin or hair. It can cause some side effects such as inflammation of the skin (dermatitis) including redness, itching, burning, swelling, scaling, broken skin, blisters, and scarring of the skin. In manufacturing, henna is used in cosmetics, hair dyes, and hair care products; and as a dye for nails, hands, and clothing. People also use henna on the skin as temporary “tattoos.”.
More information about PPD is available. Pure Henna is SAFE. Pure henna has been in use for thousands of years. It's one of the safest things you can put on your skin, and reactions are very unusual. Henna ONLY stains a color in the range of orange, red, brown, cinnamon, brick, chocolate or coffee. The FDA classifies 100% pure henna as so safe for hair that it is exempt from regulation. Traditional pure henna rarely causes any difficulty on the unbroken skin of a healthy adult. Henna should NOT be used on infants, or children known to have G6PD deficiency.
Henna is the safest way to color your hair. Henna is a plant that grows in hot, dry climates. It’s leaves are harvest, dehydrated, and then made into powder. When Henna is mixed with an acid medium, henna will stain your nails, skin, or hair into a reddish-brown color. This makes it a safe, non-toxic way to dye your hair. Henna has been used for thousands of years to keep hair healthy and to color white or gray hair. There is only ONE color of Henna, however, there are different ranges of that color depending on the climate and soil of that plant
So, in order to be safe, stay away from any henna products that promise to turn your hair black (except for indigo-based products, which are safe and often mistakenly labeled as black henna). Real henna only stains hair and skin orange, red, burgundy, brown and like colors – never black. When applied to the skin or hair, lawsone reacts with proteins, resulting in a semi-permanent stain. Benefits of henna for your hair include strengthening and shining properties. There are plenty of other advantages to using henna, and not all of them are cosmetically based.