Most house moving companies want to physically inspect a house and the desired placement location before estimating the cost for them to move it. The cost for moving any size house can range between $12 and $16 per square foot, so obviously a smaller house with not a long distance to travel will be cheaper to move. The roads traveled during the move can add to the cost of the move. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
These include the cost of the property that the house will be moved to, paying contractors to disconnect wiring and plumbing, the construction of a new foundation for the home once it gets to the new location, and any type of permits necessary. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
Average Cost. Based on 2010 data, the average cost of moving a new home was $20,000 to $40,000. The size of the house, the distance to the new location and the amount of work required to move the building all play a role in the total cost. Purestock/Purestock/Getty Images. Save. When new developments or roads encroach on your home and you have to move, you can take your house with you. The cost of moving the house is often consistent with the cost of building a new home and, in some cases, may be substantially lower. (Goodluz/iStock/Getty Images).
The house cost only $1, and in total, including a one-mile move and reconstruction costs, the couple spent $100,000 for a five-bedroom house worth twice that. 
A total cost of between $8,000 and $40,000 just to actually move the house from the original site to the new site can be considered to be on the cheaper end of the spectrum with costs for moving bigger houses reaching up to hundreds of thousands. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
The cost of moving a house starts at about $12 to $16 per square foot but can quickly rise if the home is heavier, bigger or has farther to go [sources: McLinden, Burstein ]. One house builder estimates that moving a large home more than just a few miles can run about $150,000 to $200,000 [source: Fetters ]. In addition to the costs of the actual moving, these expenses should also be considered: 1  Cost of the new home, if you're not moving one that you already own
The cost of moving the house will depend mainly on the time it takes, which depends in turn on the route to be travelled, the size of the house and the degree of difficulty. It can range from a few thousand dollars to move a single-piece house, with the price increasing for the number of pieces, location and difficulty. 
If your house is quite large, it may be too large to move as a single unit. In these cases, assuming your house is structurally sound enough to handle it, you'll have to break your house up into smaller pieces to move. Moving multiple pieces will obviously increase the overall cost of moving the house as well. For example, moving a house along fairly straight, flat rural routes through the Midwest could cost less than having to move the same house through the crowded, twisty roads of New England.
The Decision. The easiest way to move a home, and to determine the cost to move a house, is to contact a professional moving specialist. They will come in with a crew, take a look at the house’s structure and the proposed moving spot, and will provide all of the necessary equipment for the job. 