Share on Google Plus. An executor's deed is a deed used by an executor to convey or transfer property out of the estate of a person who died with a will. Although state law governs the information which must be contained in an executor’s deed, the following information is generally required: 1  The name of the executor; 
The grantor must be adequately identified by the conveyance, although it is not required that the grantor's name be specifically mentioned. State laws sometimes require that the deed indicate the residence of the grantor by town, city, county, and state. Proper delivery of a deed from the grantor to the grantee is an essential element of its effectiveness. In addition, the grantor must make some statement or perform some act that implies his or her intention to transfer title.
Like this story, share it with millions of investors on M3. Heres why conveyance deed is an important document. Sulekha.com explains the importance of a conveyance deed in property deals. It explains on the details regarding the legal document, which serves as a proof in court. A ‘conveyance deed’ or ‘sale deed’ implies that the seller signs a document stating that all authority and ownership of the property in question has been transferred to the buyer. It is required to contain the following: • Defined demarcation of the boundaries of the property
Post your opinion here. Sulekha.com. In order to understand what a conveyance deed is, it is important to look at a definition of the term ‘deed’ itself. A deed is a written document or an instrument that is sealed, signed and delivered by all parties to the contract (buyer and seller). A ‘conveyance deed’ or ‘sale deed’ implies that the seller signs a document stating that all authority and ownership of the property in question has been transferred to the buyer. It is required to contain the following: • Defined demarcation of the boundaries of the property
In real estate in the United States, a deed of trust or trust deed is a deed wherein legal title in real property is transferred to a trustee, which holds it as security for a loan (debt) between a borrower and lender. The equitable title remains with the borrower. 
A deed of title is a formal document, which serves as evidence of property ownership. It is used for transferring property ownership interests and rights. There are various types of deeds used depending on the type of transfer. A quitclaim deed conveys the grantor’s interest in the property to another party. Generally it is used to transfer property interest and title to a spouse. Quitclaim deeds are used frequently in divorce settlements. The grantor makes no guarantees about the Grantor’s interest in the property
Quitclaim Deed. A quitclaim deed conveys the grantor’s interest in the property to another party. Generally it is used to transfer property interest and title to a spouse. Quitclaim deeds are used frequently in divorce settlements. The grantor makes no guarantees about the Grantor’s interest in the property
Quitclaim deeds are special-purpose real property transfer documents. A quitclaim deed is a legal document that is used to transfer an interest or ownership in real property, such as a house, raw land or a mobile home, from one individual or party to another. The person selling the property is known as the grantor, and the one buying it, the grantee