Premenopausal. In premenopausal patients, there is significant variation at different stages of the menstrual cycle. 1  during menstruation 1,4: 2-4 mm. 2  early proliferative phase (day 6-14): 5-7 mm. 3  late proliferative-pre ovulatory phase: up to 11 mm. 4  secretory phase: 7-16 mm. 5  retained products of conception. 1 on hormonal replacement therapy: upper limit is 5 mm. 2  no history of vaginal bleeding: 3  the acceptable range of endometrial thickness is less well established in this group, cut-off values of 8-11 mm have been suggested.
During menstruation, the endometrium appears as a thin, echogenic line 1–4 mm in thickness (Fig 3) (4, 5). The endometrium is usually best seen on endovaginal scans. Endometrial thickness is measured from echogenic border to echogenic border across the endometrial cavity on a sagittal midline image. In general, a double-layer thickness of less than 5 mm without focal thickening excludes significant disease and is consistent with atrophy (25 – 27). Homogeneous, smooth endometria measuring 5 mm or less are considered within the normal range with or without hormonal replacement therapy (28).
There is no cut off for normal endometrial thickness, but average thickness varies from four to fourteen millimeters during different parts of the cycle. The lining is thinnest four to six days after menstruation begins, and thickest immediately prior to menstruation. If you have normal menses without heavy or unusual bleeding, your uterine lining is likely normal. For those women, thick endometrium can be an important sign of endometrial cancer, and will often result in a biopsy. However, the lining thickness is not as helpful in premenopausal women, even if they have abnormal bleeding.
For example, on cycle day 4 (usually at then end of menstruation) it might be 4mm or less, at ovulation say 6 mm, and during the premenstrual days maybe up to 13 mm. It sounds like your ultrasound was done cycle day 10 (somewhat before ovulation) so perhaps 11 mm was considered thickened for that part of your cycle. 
For example, on cycle day 4 (usually at then end of menstruation) it might be 4mm or less, at ovulation say 6 mm, and during the premenstrual days maybe up to 13 mm. It sounds like your ultrasound was done cycle day 10 (somewhat before ovulation) so perhaps 11 mm was considered thickened for that part of your cycle. 
Depending on the hormone levels the growth of the endometrium occurs.In the first phase (menstrual phase) the thickness is 1-4mm (first 5 days of the cycle). second phase(proliferative phase) - 4 -14mm (next 10 days of the cycle). 
Normal range of endometrial thickness. The designation of normal limits of endometrial thickness rests on determining at which thickness the risk of endometrial carcinoma is significantly increased. 1 on hormonal replacement therapy: upper limit is 5 mm. 2  no history of vaginal bleeding: 3  the acceptable range of endometrial thickness is less well established in this group, cut-off values of 8-11 mm have been suggested.
1 8. 2  on hormonal replacement therapy: upper limit is 5 mm. 3  no history of vaginal bleeding: 4  the acceptable range of endometrial thickness is less well established in this group, cut-off values of 8-11 mm have been suggested. 1 on hormonal replacement therapy: upper limit is 5 mm. 2  no history of vaginal bleeding: 3  the acceptable range of endometrial thickness is less well established in this group, cut-off values of 8-11 mm have been suggested.
In premenopausal patients, there is significant variation at different stages of the menstrual cycle. 1  during menstruation 1,4: 2-4 mm. 2  early proliferative phase (day 6-14): 5-7 mm. 3  late proliferative-pre ovulatory phase: up to 11 mm. 4  secretory phase: 7-16 mm. 1 on hormonal replacement therapy: upper limit is 5 mm. 2  no history of vaginal bleeding: 3  the acceptable range of endometrial thickness is less well established in this group, cut-off values of 8-11 mm have been suggested.