Texas Center for Proton Therapy brings innovative cancer treatment to Dallas-Fort Worth. By Claire St. Amant, The Influentials-News-CultureMap Dallas. Scheduled to start accepting patients in 2016, the $105 million center is breaking ground in Las Colinas on May 15 thanks to Texas Oncology. Proton Therapy is a relatively new form of radiation treatment that uses a proton beam to damage the DNA of cancer cells.
In the world of cancer treatment, innovation is always on the agenda. Although the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston has put Texas on the map for cancer treatment, Irving is joining the esteemed hospital's ranks by opening the Texas Center for Proton Therapy. Scheduled to start accepting patients in 2016, the $105 million center is breaking ground in Las Colinas on May 15 thanks to Texas Oncology. Proton Therapy is a relatively new form of radiation treatment that uses a proton beam to damage the DNA of cancer cells.
Dr. Scott Cheek is a radiation oncologist with Texas Oncology. Cheek says there is no one in Dallas-Fort Worth currently treating with proton therapy. In fact, there are only 11 proton treatment facilities in all of North America. The closest ones to Dallas are in Oklahoma City and Houston. Scheduled to start accepting patients in 2016, the $105 million center is breaking ground in Las Colinas on May 15 thanks to Texas Oncology. Proton Therapy is a relatively new form of radiation treatment that uses a proton beam to damage the DNA of cancer cells.
Texas Physical Therapist Salaries. Within Texas there is a lot of variation in Physical Therapist salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Texas and surrounding states, click on any one to find Physical Therapist Salaries for that area. Work cooperatively with physicians, case managers, and adjustors. May supervise physical therapy assistants, aides, and athletic trainers. Requires a master's degree and is certified as a physical therapist.
Occupational Therapist Asst. - Nursing Home. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Massage Therapist in Dallas, TX that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Massage Therapist in Dallas are expected to make less than the median
The salary for someone with the job title Massage Therapist in Dallas, TX varies depending on a number of factors. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Massage Therapist in Dallas, TX that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Massage Therapist in Dallas are expected to make less than the median
A Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) in Dallas, Texas earns an average wage of $27.17 per hour. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Trauma Intensive Care Unit (TICU) and Emergency/Trauma. $20.84 - $34.26. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
average therapist salaries for job postings in dallas tx are 2 % higher than average therapist salaries for job postings nationwide 