Designer Giorgio Armani was born on July 11, 1934, in Piacenza, Italy. With his body-conscious yet understated clothing, Giorgio Armani has become one of the most popular names in fashion. He first launched his business empire in the mid-1970s, and it has grown substantially over the years.
Born Giorgio Armani has an estimated net worth of $8.9 billion as per Forbes' list in 2014. He is known by various adjectives such as visionary, perfectionist and fashion moghul. Meet Giorgio Armani, the undisputed king of tailored suits who has singlehandedly created a standalone multi-billion fashion empire.
Top fashion designers. Now in his fifth decade working in fashion, Giorgio Armani is more than just a designer-he's an institution, an icon and a multinational, billion-dollar brand.
Giorgio Armani is an Italian fashion designer much renowned the world over for his elegant menswear. His popularity is especially high in the U.S where the name ‘Armani’ is synonymous with style and sophistication. Armani became a designer by chance—his first career choice was to become a doctor!
Giorgio Armani is one of the world's most famous fashion designers. Born in Piacenza, Italy on 11 July 1934, he originally intended to become a doctor. After studying medicine at the University of Bologna, he decided that the medical life was not for him.
Giorgio Armani net worth: $9.6 Billion. Giorgio Armani Net Worth: Giorgio Armani is an Italian fashion designer who has a net worth of $9.6 billion dollars. Born July 11, 1934 in Piacenza, Italy, Giorgio Armani is best known for his popular men's suits.
About Giorgio Armani. Now in his fifth decade working in fashion, Giorgio Armani is more than just a designer-he's an institution, an icon and a multinational, billion-dollar brand.
Giorgio Armani is most famous for the unstructured jackets and soft tailoring that he introduced to the world and Armani is one of the most popular names in fashion. The most famous line that he makes is the Giorgio Armani line.