Strawberry Apple Crisp is a healthy dessert. Fruit for Dessert. Strawberries or apples make a healthy dessert – all by themselves. But, if you’re like me, you crave a ‘real dessert’ sometimes, too. I decided to dress up dinner beyond the ordinary this week with my invention of Strawberry Apple Crisp. Oh my, was it tasty! 3. Mix together the fruit in a 9 x 9 baking pan and squeeze the juice of 1/2 lemon over top. 4. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons white sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon over fruit. 5. Mix together crisp topping: 1/2 cup oatmeal + 1/4 cup whole wheat flour + 2 tablespoons brown sugar + 2 tablespoons butter.
get healthy living updates. Strawberries are the angels of the earth, innocent & sweet with green leafy wings reaching heavenward. Jasmine Heiler. The Strawberry is called the queen of fruits” In Asian countries because it s packed with health benefits. Compared to fruits like apples, oranges or bananas, strawberries have the highest amount of nutrients. These juicy heart-shaped delights have much more to offer beyond sweetness and flavor. Promote eye health. Eating three or more servings of fruit like strawberries may lower the risk of macular degeneration, a condition resulting in vision loss. (Archives of Ophthalmology). Next page: Nutrition, History and Fascinating Facts of Strawberries.
1 In a large bowl, combine the apples and strawberries; drizzle with lemon juice. 2  Combine sugar and flour; sprinkle over fruit and toss lightly. 3  Line a 9-in. 4  pie place with bottom pastry; trim even with edge of plate. 5  Add filling. 6  Roll out remaining pastry to fit top of pie; place over filling. Directions. 1  In a large bowl, combine the apples and strawberries; drizzle with lemon juice. 2  Combine sugar and flour; sprinkle over fruit and toss lightly. 3  Line a 9-in. 4  pie place with bottom pastry; trim even with edge of plate. 5  Add filling.
Toss the apples with strawberries and caster sugar and place them into deep baking dish (normally would be square or rectangle, but I used a round one this time). Combine flour with icing sugar and chopped butter to get even and light crumbs. 
Well here is an option, which fulfills the instant urge to have something wholesome and fulfilling. When we combine the freshness of strawberries with healthy apples and smooth texture of bananas, we have a delightful treat of a healthy milkshake. 
Place a layer of apples at the bottom of the dish, followed by a layer of strawberries, then a layer of apples. Cover the filling with the topping. Bake at 350 degrees for 25-30 minutes in ramekins, 45-1 hour in a casserole dish. The apple strawberry mixture should be bubbling and the top should be brown and crisp. Mix flour, oats, brown sugar, melted butter, salt, cinnamon, oats, and walnuts in a large bowl to make the topping. Core the apples and cut them into thin slices. Toss in a bowl with lemon juice and cinnamon.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Combine the strawberries, apples, granulated sugar, walnuts, and cinnamon in a saucepan over medium heat and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft. Divide the strawberry-apples mixture among the tart shells. Sift the flour into a bowl, rub the butter in until it looks like fine bread crumbs and add the oatmeal. Gently mix in the brown sugar. Sprinkle a thick layer of the crumble mixture on top of the fruit.
All you need to do is use your favorite apples and heat them up with a smidge of water with a few cups of fresh or frozen strawberries. I make about 8 cups at a time and it stores well in my fridge for weeks. Put portions of applesauce in 4 ounce containers for lunch box snacks. 