Either use a WEP key or a passphrase to connect a router to the network. Most routers provide for this. If the router is set to WEP, enter the WEP key. If the router is set to WPA, set the passphrase to be used to connect
WPA is a wireless encryption format and the passphrase is in the wireless security section of your router. Here is a link to one of the Sticky topics at the top of this forkum that should be of assistance.
The person who set up your network usually keeps the WEP key or WPA/WPA2 preshared key/passphrase. If your wireless network was set up by your Internet Service Provider (ISP), then you might find the information in the documentation they provided. See the documentation that came with your access point (wireless router). If your access point is using the default settings, then you can find the information in the documentation. View the security settings on the access point. Open a Web browser, and then type the IP address of the access point in the address field.
If you have your own router and need more information, you can find the passphrase using directions provided by the router manufacturer. Consult the user manual for your router, or visit your manufacturer's website.
In a wireless network, the WPA key is a password that protects the network from outside intruders. If a wireless router is set up with WPA encryption, you need the WPA key for network access and to make changes to the settings of your network. I would suggest you refer the link and check if it helps.
Carlina Teteris / Moment. Definition: In computer networking, a passphrase is one or a few small words chosen by an administrator for use as a security setting. Passphrases are designed to make network security settings easier to remember.
WEP Key Passphrase. A wireless network key is an encryption key for that prevents unauthorized users from accessing a specific wireless network. The user creates wireless network keys, which either a wireless router or a computer that is connected to that wireless router can manage.