Best Answer: Corn and Corn on a Cob are generally very sweet. Corn is naturally full of sugar. It was deliberately bred by people in Mexico back around 7,000 years ago to provide quick energy. It was even at the first Thanksgiving, as the American Indians had come to rely on this food.
Sweet corn is a side dish option. Sweet corn is known as a starchy vegetable, like peas, potatoes, squash and parsnips. What separates these vegetables from other varieties is that they have a high amount of carbohydrates and fiber. This is beneficial for the general population and athletes, but not for low-carb dieters.
Corn is a type of maize that is grown for people and livestock to eat and comes in different forms, including sweet corn, yellow corn and field corn. Corn is included in the grain group in the USDA food groups and is rich in carbohydrates.
Macronutrient Profile. Not only is sweet corn high in carbohydrates, but it also provides a moderate amount of protein and low amount of fat. A 100-gram serving contains about 19 grams of carbs, just over 3 grams of protein and less than 1.5 grams of fat.
Carbs in Corn. The favorite choice for the term Corn is 1 cup of Yellow Sweet Corn which has about 29 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Corn is shown below.
Corn on the cob is a good source of carbohydrates. You’ll find corn on the list of starchy vegetables, which means it has about three times more carbohydrates than non-starchy vegetables. Its high carbohydrate content provides energy in the form of natural sugars and complex starches.
Yes, corn is a carbohydrate, as are other vegetables, such as peas and lima beans. For the carbohydrate content on corn, see the related link below.
One large ear of yellow corn has about 5.36 grams of sugar and 8.46 grams of complex carbs in the form of starch. However, those values may change depending on when the corn was harvested and the temperature at which it was stored.