This currency convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 12, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Papua New Guinea Kina and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Papua New Guinea Kina is the currency in Papua New Guinea (PG, PNG). The symbol for PGK can be written K. The Papua New Guinea Kina is divided into 100 toeas. The exchange rate for the Papua New Guinea Kina was last updated on October 8, 2015 from Bloomberg. The PGK conversion factor has 4 significant digits
The kina (ISO 4217 code: PGK) is the currency of Papua New Guinea. It is divided into 100 toea. The kina was introduced on 19 April 1975, replacing the Australian dollar at par. 
Convert PGK to USD using our currency converter with live foreign exchange rates. On this page convert PGK to USD using live currency rates as of 14/10/2015 23:18. You are here: Home » rates » Papua New Guinea Kina » Convert Papua New Guinea Kina to Dollars | PGK to USD.
You are here: Home » rates » US Dollar » Convert Dollars to Papua New Guinea Kina | USD to PGK. On this page convert USD to PGK using live currency rates as of 15/10/2015 08:37. Includes a live currency converter, handy conversion table, last 7 days exchange rate history and some live Dollars to Papua New Guinea Kina charts. Convert USD to PGK using our currency converter with live foreign exchange rates. On this page convert USD to PGK using live currency rates as of 15/10/2015 08:37.
US Dollar Papua New Guinea Kina and historical quotes USD (United States) PGK (Papua New Guinea). Convert 1 US Dollar to Papua New Guinea Kina = 2.8832 PGK. Convert 5 US Dollar to Papua New Guinea Kina = 14.4160 PGK. Convert 20 US Dollar to Papua New Guinea Kina = 57.664 PGK. Papua New Guinea Kina exchange rate. US Dollar-Papua New Guinea Kina chart. Papua New Guinea Kina-US Dollar chart. Historic US Dollar-Papua New Guinea Kina. Historic Papua New Guinea Kina-US Dollar. Detect your location. Ads by Google. Ads by Google. 1  Forex | Exchange Rate | Currency Converter.
The Papua New Guinean Kina is the currency of Papua New Guinea. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Papua New Guinea Kina exchange rate is the PGK to AUD rate. The currency code for Kina is PGK, and the currency symbol is K. Below, you'll find Papua New Guinean Kina rates and a currency converter.
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code. 
The sharp fall of Papua New Guinea’s currency, the kina, over the past few months is a cause for concern, with Manufacturers Council of PNG CEO Chey Scovell describing it as a ‘real kick in the guts’ for local manufacturers. Beange notes that the kina is not the only currency to have depreciated against the US dollar, which has strengthened as the US economy has shown signs of recovery over the last 12 months.