The outline of your liver is smooth, and its size and shape are normal. But the texture of your liver is coarse, or bumpy. This can mean some scarring of the liver, cirrhosis from alcohol, chronic hepatitis, or just a fatty liver. There are other rare causes. Get help from a doctor now ›. Wide normal range: though usually 12-15cm. 10cm is considered on the smaller end but a lot of of it has to do with your body size and the way the measurement was taken. If the liver tissue itself was normal and your liver function tests are fine, no reason to worry. ...Read more.
Producing bile to aid in digestion Bile salts aid in fat digestion and absorption. Bile is continuously secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder until a meal, when bile enters the beginning of the small intestine. Bile production ranges from 250 mL to 1 L per day depending of amount of food eaten. Excretion of bilirubin Bilirubin is one of the few waste products excreted in bile. The liver, weighing roughly 1.2-1.6 kg, performs many of the functions necessary for staying healthy. It is located in the right side of the body under the lower ribs and is divided into four lobes of unequal size. Two large vessels carry blood to the liver.
Normal Range for Liver Function Test Results. The liver is the chemical center of the human body. It helps regulate blood glucose,... Other Tests. Other tests performed during a liver function test may include gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) and cholesterol. GGT is also found in the liver cells and is found in higher blood concentrations when the bile ducts are blocked.
Reference Range. The reference range for albumin testing is as follows: The normal range is 3.5 to 5.5 g/dL or 35-55 g/liter. This range may vary slightly in different laboratories. Albumin composes 50%-60% of blood plasma proteins. An image depicting human serum albumin can be seen below. The structure of human serum albumin.
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) are three enzymes that are present inside the cells of the liver. When the cells of the liver are damaged, the enzymes are measured in higher concentrations in the blood. Other Tests. Other tests performed during a liver function test may include gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) and cholesterol. GGT is also found in the liver cells and is found in higher blood concentrations when the bile ducts are blocked.
Normal blood test results for typical liver function tests include: 1  ALT. 7 to 55 units per liter (U/L). 2  AST. 8 to 48 U/L. 3  ALP. 45 to 115 U/L. 4  Albumin. 5  3.5 to 5.0 grams per deciliter (g/dL). 6  Total protein. 7  6.3 to 7.9 g/dL. 8  Bilirubin. 9  0.1 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). 
When the liver is damaged, it cannot create these proteins, so low levels are found in the blood. The normal level of albumin is 3.9 to 5 grams per deciliter (g/dL). Globulins are measured by the function of the immune system. Other Tests. Other tests performed during a liver function test may include gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) and cholesterol. GGT is also found in the liver cells and is found in higher blood concentrations when the bile ducts are blocked.
The liver is a gland and plays a major role in metabolism with numerous functions in the human body, including regulation of glycogen storage, decomposition of red blood cells, plasma protein synthesis, hormone production, and detoxification. The liver is a reddish brown wedge-shaped organ with four lobes of unequal size and shape. A human liver normally weighs 1.44–1.66 kg (3.2–3.7 lb). It is both the largest internal organ and the largest gland in the human body
The vertical height of the organ is estimated to be 15 centimeters to 17.5 centimeters. From the front to back, the organ measures 10 centimeters to 12.5 centimeters. The average weight of this body part is between 1.4 kilograms to 1.6 kilograms. Learning the average and normal liver size is important to the detection of fatty infiltration. 