Foodborne illness (also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning) is any illness resulting from the food spoilage of contaminated food, pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food, as well as chemical or natural toxins such as poisonous mushrooms. 
Because the bacteria enter the body through the digestive system, symptoms will generally be in this part of the body-nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps and diarrhoea. In some cases, food poisoning can cause very serious illness or even death. When someone swallows bacteria that cause food poisoning, there is a delay (incubation period) before symptoms begin. This is because most bacteria that cause food poisoning need time to multiply in the intestine. The length of the incubation period depends on the type of bacteria and how many are swallowed.
Causes. The cause of most cases of food poisoning is pathogens. A pathogen is any living organism that can cause disease. This includes bacteria, viruses, and molds. The most common pathogens that cause foodborne illnesses are: 1  Salmonella – found in meats, eggs, milk and fresh fruits and vegetables.
Food poisoning, also called foodborne illness, is illness caused by eating contaminated food. Infectious organisms — including bacteria, viruses and parasites — or their toxins are the most common causes of food poisoning. Food poisoning symptoms, which can start within hours of eating contaminated food, often include nausea, vomiting or diarrhea. Most often, food poisoning is mild and resolves without treatment. But some people need to go to the hospital. 1  Symptoms.
Campylobacter, a bacteria that is a major cause of food poisoning. Symptoms start many hours to many days after eating. Depending on what the cause of the poisoning was, they can include one or more of the following: nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, gastroenteritis, fever, pain in the head or fatigue. 
Depending on the type of infection, people can even die as a result of food poisoning. More than 250 different diseases can cause food poisoning. Some of the most common diseases are infections caused by bacteria, such as Campylobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, E. coli O157:H7, Listeria, botulism, and norovirus. Food poisoning is a common, yet distressing and sometimes life-threatening problem for millions of people in the U.S. and throughout the world. People infected with food-borne organisms may be symptom-free or may have symptoms ranging from mild intestinal discomfort to severe dehydration and bloody diarrhea.
For the most common types of food poisoning, no treat-ment is needed. Vomiting, diarrhea, and other symptomsget better in a few days. Antibiotic treatment may or may not be needed, even ifthe cause is bacteria. Symptoms are usually caused bytoxins produced by the bacteria. 
In the UK, campylobacter bacteria are the most common cause of food poisoning. The bacteria are usually found on raw or undercooked meat (particularly poultry), unpasteurised milk and untreated water. The incubation period (the time between eating contaminated food and the start of symptoms) for food poisoning caused by campylobacter is usually between two and five days. The symptoms usually last less than a week. Salmonella bacteria are often found in raw or undercooked meat, raw eggs, milk, and other dairy products. The incubation period is usually between 12 and 72 hours. The symptoms usually last around four to seven days.
Listeria Food Poisoning. Listeria is a bacterium that causes a serious infection called listeriosis. Around 300 deaths are caused by Listeria infection each year, according to estimates from a 2011 CDC report. Listeria bacteria are most commonly found in raw foods. Toxoplasma Food Poisoning. Toxoplasma gondii is one of the world’s most common parasites. It is the second leading cause of deaths attributed to foodborne illness in the United States, and the third leading cause of foodborne illness hospitalizations.
What is food poisoning? Food poisoning is defined as any disease of an infectious or toxic nature caused by the consumption of food or drink. The term is most often used to describe the illness, usually diarrhoea and/or vomiting caused by bacteria, viruses or parasites. Very occasionally poisonings from chemicals may be the cause.