If you want more than one tree, plant additional pecan trios no less than 35 feet apart to leave room for the mature trees. The roots of the new pecan tree will emerge from the split in the shell and grow at a rate of about 1/2 inch per day. Although pecans planted from seed grow slowly during their first two to three years, they can easily reach heights of 70 feet or more at maturity, around 20 years of age.
Different pecan tree varieties grow to varying sizes and produce distinct nuts. Whether you're looking for a tall shade tree that will grow to over 100 feet (30.5 m) or a tree that produces reliably plump and flavorful nuts, there's bound to be a variety that meets your needs. 1 Allow for approximately 35 feet (10.67 m) spacing between each pecan tree that you plant. 2  If trees are crowded, the faster growing tree will over-shadow a slower, stunt it and kill the shaded one eventually, hampering both trees' crops.
Water it well. Water your pecan tree thoroughly immediately after planting it. For the first 6 months, water about 10 to 15 gallons (37.9 to 56.8 L) once a week. Do not water too much or too often, though, since you don't want keep them in a harmful soggy condition. 1 Allow for approximately 35 feet (10.67 m) spacing between each pecan tree that you plant. 2  If trees are crowded, the faster growing tree will over-shadow a slower, stunt it and kill the shaded one eventually, hampering both trees' crops.
If you want to add a pecan tree to your landscape, start with a container-grown or bare-root nursery tree, or grow your tree from seed. Although pecans planted from seed grow slowly during their first two to three years, they can easily reach heights of 70 feet or more at maturity, around 20 years of age.
Trees can be planted from a pecan nut, from a seedling tree, or from a grafted tree. A grafted tree begins slow production after three to four years, reaching full production in its ninth or tenth year. A tree started from a nut takes five to seven more years to reach production. A pecan tree begins to bear fruit about three to four years after its graft date. Pecan trees are the largest tree in the hickory family, reaching a height of 100 to 140 feet at maturity.
Pick a sunny planting spot with plenty of room. Pecan trees can grow over 100 feet (30.5 m) tall, and they have root systems that stretch deep and wide. They need plenty of space, whether you're planting them in your yard or in an orchard. 1 Allow for approximately 35 feet (10.67 m) spacing between each pecan tree that you plant. 2  If trees are crowded, the faster growing tree will over-shadow a slower, stunt it and kill the shaded one eventually, hampering both trees' crops.
Time Frame. A grafted pecan tree can produce a small crop as soon as two years after its grafting, although it will typically take closer to five years to mature enough to produce a large crop. Some pecan trees may take 10 to 12 years to move beyond vegetative growth into fruiting maturity. Pecan trees can grow to 70 feet tall have trunk diameters of 6 feet at full maturity. Trees can be spaced as close as 30 to 40 feet apart until they are about 15 years old, at which point they should be thinned. At 30 to 40 years old, pecan trees grow to a width of closer to 60 feet. Kennith Ponder/iStock/Getty Images.
The pecan tree is a large deciduous tree, growing to 20–40 m (66–131 ft) in height, rarely to 44 m (144 ft). It typically has a spread of 12–23 m (39–75 ft) with a trunk up to 2 m (6.6 ft) diameter. A 10-year-old sapling will stand about 5 m (16 ft) tall. 
Pecan trees prefer the warm-weather conditions of the South but tolerate growing in USDA planting zones 6 through 9. Trees can grow up to 150 feet in height with a spread of 75 feet once mature, are deciduous and suitable for use as a large shade tree. Gardeners desiring nuts should plant two varieties of pecan trees in their landscape so cross-pollination occurs. Water the pecan tree after planting, allowing the water to saturate the roots. Water the newly planted pecan tree with approximately one gallon of water daily for the first year, as trees are heavy drinkers.