Charles Bonnet syndrome is a common condition among people with serious vision loss. The condition is characterized by temporary visual hallucinations experienced by people who have lost a significant portion of their sight. 
The primary symptom that defines Charles Bonnet syndrome is the presence of visual hallucinations which are oftentimes liliput or involves smaller objects. Nonetheless, the characteristics of the hallucination of those with CBS do not actually resemble those that were experienced by people with psychiatric disorders. Charles Bonnet syndrome is actually the result of the brains reaction to the loss of sight. Normally, the moment you see the actual appearance of a certain thing, your brain no longer has to process more images of its own.
Charles Bonnet Syndrome is a condition that is seen in persons who have experience losing their visual senses because of cataract, diabetic eye disease, glaucoma, or age related macular degeneration. The visual hallucinations which are found in the Charles Bonnet Syndrome indicate the segregation of the hierarchy of the visual pathways into streams.
(Redirected from Charles Bonnet syndrome). Visual release hallucinations, also known as Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS) , is the experience of complex visual hallucinations in a person with partial or severe blindness. First described by Charles Bonnet in 1760, it was first introduced into English-speaking psychiatry in 1982. Mentally healthy people with significant vision loss may have vivid, complex recurrent visual hallucinations (fictive visual percepts). One characteristic of these hallucinations is that they usually are  lilliputian  (hallucinations in which the characters or objects are smaller than normal).
Patient information factsheet Charles Bonnet syndrome What is Charles Bonnet syndrome? Charles Bonnet syndrome (or CBS for short) is a term used to describe the situation when people with sight problems start to see things, which they know aren't real. Charles Bonnet syndrome affects people with serious sight loss and usually only people who have lost their sight later in life but can affect people of any age, usually appearing after a period of worsening sight. The visual hallucinations often stop within a year to eighteen months.
Charles Bonnet Syndrome. Charles Bonnet Syndrome is the name of a condition that results in people seeing things that they know really are not there. Symptoms of Charles Bonnet Syndrome. The images or visual hallucinations are the result of the brain's reaction to severe vision loss. When the symptoms first start the images often come frequently, maybe even several times a day, but eventually they become less frequent and go away.
Definition. Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS) is the occurrence of phantom visions in people living with some form of eye disease* who are otherwise cognitively and psychologically healthy. These phantom images co-exist with one's usual perception. * vision impairment or damage to the visual regions of the brain. Or put simply:
Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS) is a type of medical disorder which primarily involves the eyes. This condition was first discovered in 1760 by Charles Bonnet (a Swiss philosopher) and thus named after him. Bonnet was able to discover this condition because his own grandfather actually suffered from the same condition. Charles Bonnet syndrome is actually the result of the brains reaction to the loss of sight. Normally, the moment you see the actual appearance of a certain thing, your brain no longer has to process more images of its own.
Charles Bonnet Syndrome (CBS) is a condition that causes vivid, complex, recurring visual hallucinations, usually (but not only) in older adults with later-life vision loss. It was introduced into the English-speaking psychiatric literature in 1982. Roughly one third of patients with low vision develop Charles Bonnet syndrome, including those with age-related macular degeneration, cataracts, diabetic retinopathy, and other eye disorders.