We are currently looking for a Clinical Care Coordinator to promote our services and to provide... 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all CareSouth jobs in Chicago, IL-Chicago jobs. 2  Salary Search: Home Health Care Coordinator salaries in Chicago, IL. 
A care coordinator performs a number of responsibilities in a health care environment, including caring for patients through formulating, developing and implementing treatment plans. They must be able to gather all relevant information for a patient and deliver a care program that works best for each individual case. Most employers require at least a bachelor's degree in social work, heath care, or a other related field. Employers also generally require at least a year of related work experience. Care coordinators must be able to build relationships with patients and resolve conflicts.
What is the average annual salary for Intake Coordinator-Home Care? The annual salary for someone with the job title Intake Coordinator-Home Care may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Intake Coordinator-Home Care in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
Additionally, they are responsible for scheduling services and enforcing all organizational standards. Care coordinators are also expected to uphold all confidentiality standards in the workplace. This is generally a full-time job, which means care coordinators usually work a minimum of 40 hours a week. Typical employers of care coordinators are health care facilities and rehabilitation centers. Most employers require at least a bachelor's degree in social work, heath care, or a other related field. Employers also generally require at least a year of related work experience. Care coordinators must be able to build relationships with patients and resolve conflicts.
Average Case Coordinator Salaries. The average salary for case coordinator jobs is $55,000. Average case coordinator salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term case coordinator anywhere in the job listing. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Intake Coordinator-Home Care in the United States is $49,701 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Intake Coordinator-Home Care in the United States are expected to make less than $49,701. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $49,701. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Intake Coordinator-Home Care in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
Average Patient Care Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide are 57% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
According to Payscale.com, annual earnings for a patient care coordinator ranged from $28,660 to $68,533, as of September 2014. Duties of a patient care coordinator vary widely depending on the facility in which the coordinator works. The main job of a patient care coordinator is to ensure high quality health care. A coordinator helps to ensure patients understand every aspect of their care while also working with administration to create policies and make decisions that are in the best interest of the patients.
A Care Coordinator earns an average salary of $40,779 per year. A skill in Patient Education is associated with high pay for this job. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. Most employers require at least a bachelor's degree in social work, heath care, or a other related field. Employers also generally require at least a year of related work experience. Care coordinators must be able to build relationships with patients and resolve conflicts.
Health Care Coordinator Salary. Health Care Coordinator average salary is $40,838, median salary is $36,900 with a salary range from $24,000 to $73,902. Health Care Coordinator salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. 