The olfactory bulb process all the odors when the olfactory receptor or smell receptor cells which are present further inside the olfactory bulb bring the information. These olfactory bulbs comprise of distinct round shaped glomeruli which are type of nerve tissues. Olfactory bulb is a special organ that is located in forebrain of all vertebrates and accepts neural inputs related to odor which is identified by the nasal cavity cells.
Olfactory Membrane. The olfactory membrane, or epithelium, is a layer of cells on the roof of the nasal cavity. It is made up of three layers of cells: the supporting cells, the olfactory receptor cells, and the basal cells. Supporting cells are similar to glial cells and help produce mucus. Basal cells are the source of new receptors. Olfactory receptor cells, actually neurons, are the site of transduction. Olfactory receptor cells are the only neurons in the nervous system that are regularly replaced (they last about 4-8 weeks). The size of the epithelium is a good indicator of the acuity of an animal's sense of smell. 
Olfactory receptor cells. Olfactory epithelium FIRST-ORDER neurons of the olfactory pathway. - Each one is a bipolar neuron with an exposed knob shaped dendrite and axon coming out through the cribriform plate and ending in the olfactory bulb.
Defining the role of olfactory ensheathing cells in facilitating axon remyelination following damage to the spinal cord. Boyd JG, Doucette R, Kawaja MD. Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Queen's University, Room 926, Botterell Hall, Kingston, ON, Canada K7L 3N6. boydg@post.queensu.ca. 
very slender nerve cells, with large nuclei and surmounted by 6-8 long, sensitive cilia in the olfactory epithelium at the roof of the nose; they are the receptors for smell. Synonym(s): olfactory cells, Schultze cells. (ōl-fak'tŏr-ē rĕ-sep'tŏr selz). Schultze cells-Synonym(s): olfactory receptor cells. Schultze membrane-the specialized olfactory receptive area. Synonym(s): region of olfactory mucosa. Schultze sign-in latent tetany, tapping the tongue causes its depression with a concave dorsum.
1 The cilia of the sensory neurons are immersed in a layer of mucus. 2  Odorant molecules (molecules that we can smell) dissolve in the mucus and. 3  bind to receptors on the cilia. 4  These are 7-pass transmembrane proteins. 5  Binding of the odorant activates a G protein coupled to the receptor on its cytoplasmic side. In humans, these chemoreceptors are located in the olfactory epithelium — a patch of tissue about the size of a postage stamp located high in the nasal cavity. The olfactory epithelium is made up of three kinds of cells:
The olfactory epithelium is a specialized epithelial tissue inside the nasal cavity that is involved in smell. In humans, it measures about 3 square centimeters (on each side) and lies on the roof of the nasal cavity about 7 cm above and behind the nostrils. The olfactory cells of the epithelium are bipolar neurons which congregate to form the olfactory nerve. The olfactory nerves go through the cribriform plate and terminate on the dendrites of the mitral cells located in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb.
Very slender nerve cells, with large nuclei and surmounted by six to eight long, sensitive cilia in the olfactory epithelium at the roof of the nose; they are the receptors for smell. Max Johann, German histologist and zoologist, 1825-1874. Schultze cells-Synonym(s): olfactory receptor cells. Schultze membrane-the specialized olfactory receptive area. Synonym(s): region of olfactory mucosa. Schultze sign-in latent tetany, tapping the tongue causes its depression with a concave dorsum.
Olfactory receptors expressed in the cell membranes of olfactory receptor neurons are responsible for the detection of odor molecules. In vertebrates, the olfactory receptors are located in both the cilia and synapses of the olfactory sensory neurons and in the epithelium of the human airway. In insects, olfactory receptors are located on the antennae and other chemosensory organs.