Introduction (from Wikipedia). The Archaea constitute a domain or kingdom of single-celled microorganisms. These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Bacteria constitute a large domain of prokaryotic microorganisms. But it was discovered that archaea have a distinct evolutionary history and biochemistry compared with bacteria. The similarities are that archaea and eubacteria are single-celled organisms that do not have a nucleus or organelles.
Supplement. Archaea or archaebacteria evolved separately from eubacteria and eukaryotes. They are similar with eubacteria in being prokaryotes and lacking distinct cell nucleus. They differ in terms of ribosomal structure, the possession of introns (in some species) and in membrane structure or composition
Archaea. Archaea are a group of microscopic organisms that were discovered in the early 1970s. Like bacteria, they are single-celled prokaryotes. Archaeans were originally thought to be bacteria until DNA analysis showed that they are different organisms. Archaea are interesting organisms in that they have genes that are similar to both bacteria and eukaryotes. Phylogenetically speaking, archaea and bacteria are thought to have developed separately from a common ancestor. Eukaryotes are believed to have branched off from archaeans millions of years later.
In the past, archaea were classified as bacteria and were called archaebacteria. But it was discovered that archaea have a distinct evolutionary history and biochemistry compared with bacteria. The similarities are that archaea and eubacteria are single-celled organisms that do not have a nucleus or organelles.
1 Bacteria and eukaryotes have membranes composed mainly of glycerol-ester lipids, whereas archaea have membranes composed of glycerol-ether lipids. 2  The difference is the type of bond that joins the lipids to the glycerol moiety; the two types are shown in yellow in the figure at the right. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
The Archaea (or Archea) are a group of single-celled organisms. The name comes from Greek αρχαία, old ones. They are a major division of living organisms. Archaea are tiny, simple organisms. 
These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Archaea were initially classified as bacteria, receiving the name archaebacteria (in the Archaebacteria kingdom), but this classification is outdated. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
One of the three domains of living organisms: Archaea, Bacteria and Eukaryota. While Archaea are single-celled, they are unlike bacteria given their independent evolutionary history. Archaea differ from Eukaryota in their ribosomal structure and the presence—in some—of introns in the genome, as well as other features (e.g., different membrane composition). Molecular biology. 
In the past Archaea were classified as an unusual group of bacteria and named archaebacteria, but since the Archaea have an independent evolutionary history and manifest numerous differences in their biochemistry from other forms of life, they are now classified as a separate domain in the three-domain system. Having no cell nucleus, archaea do not reproduce via mitosis; rather, they procreate using a process called binary fission. In this binary fission process, archaeal DNA replicates, and the two strands are pulled apart as the cell grows.