Boneless has a different processing time that bone in chicken. Be sure and read carefully and get the correct time requirements. With bone-Process pints - 1 hour 5 minutes and Quarts 1 hour 15 minutes.
Place in your pressure canner. Meat MUST be pressure canned. A hot water bath will not seal the jars correctly because meat is not acidic. Make sure to follow the directions on your individual canner. (I have a Presto 23 qt Pressure Canner, I love it!) Cook for 90 minutes at 10 pounds of pressure.
Step 6: Carefully place your jars into the canner, and close the lid. Step 7: Follow the specific instructions for your pressure cooker in regards to what pressure you should use to cook chicken. My pressure cooker needs that I need to process the chicken at 11 lbs of pressure.
Step 7: Place lid on the pressure canner and turn up the heat on your stove. Allow steam to vent out for ten minutes before placing on the pressure regulator. Step 8: Bring the pressure up to the correct amount for your elevation (mine was 13 pounds pressure). Process for 75 minutes for pints and 90 minutes for quarts. Step 9: Remove the pressure canner from the stove and allow pressure to come down naturally.
Using the jar lifter, place your hot packed jars into the pressure canner. Different products and sized jars require different processing times. For chicken broth in 500 ml jars (pint) you process for 20 minutes. If you are using 1 litre (quart) jars, process for 25 minutes. Before processing you need to “vent” your canner. Get rid of the air/steam inside so you can build up the proper pressure.
Start by preparing jars ,and get water in your canner heating. If you are not familiar with how a pressure canner works check this page. Pour hot broth into hot jars. Wipe the rims clean, remove any air bubbles and place on your lid and rings. Leave 1 inch head space. Process using pressure canning instructions. Process-Always adjust for your altitude.
A pint of carrots only needs 25 minutes of processing in the canner, whereas chicken needs 75 minutes. You need to process your soup for the longer time,