Early symptoms may include cold feet, purple or red discoloration of the toes, or muscle cramping after walking short distances (intermittent claudication). Later findings may include a sore that won't heal (ischemic ulcer), pain at night while resting in bed, or tissue death to part of the foot (gangrene). 
What causes the bottom of your foot to turn purple… left foot… only notice in shower. 7. Get help from a doctor now ›. Purple Foot: Poor blood circulation, which can occur on its own or as part of other conditions such as diabetes and peripheral vascular disease. Your arteries and veins are narrower and therefore there is less blood getting to the extremities such as feet and toes. Get help from a doctor now ›. Raynauds or stasis.: There are multiple possibilities for purple discoloration of the feet but the most common are-1. Venous stasis due to pooling of venous blood in the sitting or standing position because of decrease of the calf muscle pump, 2.
my daughter has purple toes.....as if she has poor circulation. The doctor just mentioned to me that she might have postural orthstatic tachycardia syndrome otherwise known as POTS disease. Is anyone familiar with this term and what it means. 
Warfarin can, in rare instances, cause violaceous painful discoloration of the toes and the sides of the feet, referred to as the “purple toe syndrome” 1 - see photograph below. Occasionally, the hands can also be involved and a net-like skin rash on abdomen and legs (= livedo reticularis) can occur. 
Warfarin can, in rare instances, cause violaceous painful discoloration of the toes and the sides of the feet, referred to as the “purple toe syndrome” 1 - see photograph below. Occasionally, the hands can also be involved and a net-like skin rash on abdomen and legs (= livedo reticularis) can occur. 
Blue Toe Syndrome. Blue toe syndrome, also known as Trash Foot or Purple Toe Syndrome, is caused by a blockage of the small blood vessels in the foot that reduces the flow of blood and oxygen to the tissues. It usually develops due to a problem higher up the blood stream such as an aneurysm or atherosclerosis. In blue toe syndrome, the plaque tends to break off from blood vessels near the groin and abdomen (known as the abdominal aorta-iliac-femoral arterial system). It travels through the blood stream and gets lodged in the small blood vessels of the foot.
Description of Purple toe syndrome. Purple toe syndrome: An embolism of lipid debris from an ulcerated atheromatous deposit, generally from a large artery to small arterial branches. It is usually small and rarely causes infarction. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Purple toe syndrome: 1  Purple. 2  Toe. 3  Toe symptoms (1171 causes). 4  Toe pain (20 causes). 5  Embolism. 6  Lipid. 7  Lipid symptoms (40 causes). 8  Lipid disorder. 9  Debris. 10  Ulcerated
What Happens. Your feet feel cold and appear purple in color because of a lack of properly oxygenated blood. Oxygenated blood appears red in color, but blood lacking ample oxygen is bluish-red and can look purple through the skin. Cold, bluish-purple feet can indicate poor circulation, but it is just one of several potential causes for the condition, the medical name for which is cyanosis.