Located in the main shaft (cortical bone) of a long bone (diaphysis) (consisting mostly of compact bone), the medullary cavity has walls composed of spongy bone (cancellous bone) and is lined with a thin, vascular membrane (endosteum). However, the medullary cavity is the area inside any bone (long, flat, etc.) that holds the bone marrow. This area is involved in the formation of red blood cells and white blood cells. Intramedullary is a medical term meaning the inside of a bone
Red bone marrow is found in all flat bones, epiphyses, and medullary cavities of infants, but in adults, distribution is restricted to flat bones and the proximal epiphyses of the humerus and femur. All bone has a dense outer layer consisting of compact bone that appears smooth and solid. Structure of a Typical Long Bone Long bones have a tubular bone shaft, consisting of a bone collar surrounding a hollow medullary cavity, which is filled with yellow bone marrow in adults. Epiphyses are at the ends of the bone, and consist of internal spongy bone covered by an outer layer of compact bone.
The medullary cavity is the central cavity of bone shafts. This is  where red and yellow bone marrow are stored. The medullary cavity  is also involved in the formation of r … ed and white blood cells. The medullary cords of a lymph node contain: reticular cells, lymphocytes, macrophages and plasma cells. It is important to understand that lymphocytes include both B ce … lls and T cells.
Medullary cavity. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The medullary cavity (medulla, innermost part) is the central cavity of bone shafts where red bone marrow and/or yellow bone marrow (adipose tissue) is stored; hence, the medullary cavity is also known as the marrow cavity. However, the medullary cavity is the area inside any bone (long, flat, etc.) that holds the bone marrow. This area is involved in the formation of red blood cells and white blood cells. Intramedullary is a medical term meaning the inside of a bone
cranial cavity the space enclosed by the bones of the cranium. glenoid cavity a depression in the lateral angle of the scapula for articulation with the humerus. marrow cavity (medullary cavity) the cavity that contains bone marrow in the diaphysis of a long bone; called also medullary canal.
bone marrow the soft, organic, spongelike material in the cavities of bones; called also medulla ossium. It is a network of blood vessels and special connective tissue fibers that hold together a composite of fat and blood-producing cells. Its chief function is to manufacture erythrocytes, leukocytes, and platelets. 1. The soft tissue in the marrow cavities of long bones (yellow marrow) and in the spaces between trabeculae of spongy bone in the sternum and other flat and irregular bones (red marrow). Yellow marrow consists principally of fat cells and connective tissue and does not participate in hematopoiesis.
A substance found in the cavities of bones, especially the long bones and the sternum (breast bone). The bone marrow contains those cells that are responsible for the production of the blood cells (red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets). 1. The soft tissue in the marrow cavities of long bones (yellow marrow) and in the spaces between trabeculae of spongy bone in the sternum and other flat and irregular bones (red marrow). Yellow marrow consists principally of fat cells and connective tissue and does not participate in hematopoiesis.
Myeloid tissue generally refers to the red bone marrow, especially in the formation of red blood cells (erythropoiesis). In the adult, red bone marrow is found in portions of the vertebrae, sternum, ribs, skull, scapulae, pelvis, and proximal limb bones, collectively known as flat and irregular bones. Other marrow areas contain a fatty tissue known as yellow marrow. Yellow marrow is found in the hollow center of the diaphysis (the long shaft of the bone) known as the medullary cavity. Normally, yellow marrow does not have any blood-producing function
Gets its yellow color from the carotenoids in the fat droplets in the high number of fat cells. Paucity of vasculature. In adults, red bone marrow is primarily found in the flat bones, such as the pelvic girdle and the sternum. In children, it is found in the medullary cavity of the long bones, such as the femur. The red bone marrow contains hematopoietic cells, which are responsible for generating red blood cells. 