Kingdom: Anamalia. The blue-ringed octopus belongs to this kingdom because it has no backbone. Since it has no back bone it is classified as an invertebrate. Also, this organism is multicellular and heterotrophic. The blue-ringed octopus belongs to this group because it has eight arms and two eyes. Suborder: Incirrina. This suborder is for organisms that do not have a shell or swimming fins on the head.
The blue ringed octopus, like other octopus are deceptively strong and can escape from confinement if the container is not properly secured. The blue ringed octopus has poison glands that secrete two different types of poison: a mild type for catching food and a very poisonous type for defence. The blue ringed octopus is a soft bodied organism which belongs to the Class Cephalopoda (which means 'head and foot' animal).
Blue Ringed Octopus Description The blue ringed octopus is a soft bodied organism which belongs to the Class Cephalopoda (which means 'head and foot' animal). For the octopus, along with other Cephalopods such as cuttlefish and squid, the foot has become tentacles.
The blue-ringed octopus belongs in this phylum because it is soft bodied, bilaterally segmented, and has a complete digestive tract. Along with these traits, they also possess coelom and are dioecious. Class: Cephalopoda. The class Cephalopoda consists of octopuses and squids. The blue-ringed octopus belongs to this group because it has eight arms and two eyes. Suborder: Incirrina. This suborder is for organisms that do not have a shell or swimming fins on the head.
The greater blue-ringed octopus is one of several species of blue-ringed octopuses. All are thought to be venomous and for their size, they are the most deadly of all cephalopods. It is said that the venom of this octopus could kill 26 adults in just a few minutes. There is no antivenin for treatment. 
Introduction. Physical Characteristics: The Blue-Ringed Octopus (BRO) is a very small organism, belonging to the family of Octopodidae. Like all octopi, they are soft-bodied organisms with eight arms or tentacles. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The blue-ringed octopuses (genus Hapalochlaena) are three (or perhaps four) octopus species that live in tide pools and coral reefs in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, from Japan to Australia. Their primary habitat is around southern New South Wales, South Australia, and northern Western Australia. 1 Southern blue-ringed octopus or lesser blue-ringed octopus (Hapalochlaena maculosa). 2  Blue-lined octopus (Hapalochlaena fasciata). 3  Hapalochlaena nierstraszi was described in 1938 from a single specimen from the Bay of Bengal, with a second specimen caught and described in 2013.
This order is animals that are octopuses. The blue-ringed octopus belongs to this group because it has eight arms and two eyes. Suborder: Incirrina. This suborder is for organisms that do not have a shell or swimming fins on the head. The blue-ringed octopus belongs to this suborder because it lacks a shell
Blue-Ringed Octopus Toxins. The blue ringed octopus is a small mollusk organism that could fit into the palm of your hand. Killed by way of fear or harvested for one or both of its powerful muscular-neurotoxins, this deceptive little critter produces a potent toxin known as Tetrodotoxin, which is uses in self-defence. The Blue-Ringed Octopus, affectionately called the BRO, are a highly sought after underwater photography subject, topping the holy grail critter list for many underwater photographers and naturalists. There are approximately 5-10 different types of species found.