HOWEVER; the little puffs and the dehydrated fruit, crackers and other finger foods are great from Gerber graduates! We usually give her something along those lines for a snack, or while she is waiting for our dinner to finish cooking. At 11 months she now eats everything we eat.. Report Abuse. Your baby can have table food -- really, the majority of what you eat is fine -- instead of the Gerber stuff, which is really not particularly healthy.
Yes | No Thank you! Those snacks are not meant for 4 month old babies. They can pose as a chocking hazard. If you think your baby is ready for solids, then at lease start with something age appropriate. Like baby cereal, or puree fruits or veggies. Gerber puff and crackers are for older babies who are accustom to chewing. It will say the recommended age on the product itself. Most says 9-12 months old. 
My son started at about 7 months with graduate and of course I had to watch him and make sure he doesn't choke but other than he loved it. He is now 10-1/2 months, has two bottles a day and eats adult food the rest... he still eats the graduate snacks but he wants more of a variety that Gerber didn't have. You are the old one that can judge when your child is ready. Report Abuse. Your baby can have table food -- really, the majority of what you eat is fine -- instead of the Gerber stuff, which is really not particularly healthy.
My pediatrician says that a child should be eating 100% adult food by 12 months. I know someone's baby that wasn't forced to eat table food and she was 20 months and didn't want to eat solid foods--don't wait too long. All she wanted to eat was soft foods like yogurt or baby food. 
Babies at this point can also lift their heads up independently and hold their necks high. If your baby is around this age, can sit up well with support, and shows interest in the foods he sees you eating, it’s probably a good time to venture into feeding your baby solid food. If your baby is exclusively breastfed, it is recommended that you wait until he is 6 months to start solids. 
Babies are ready for puff cereal around 8 to 12 months. Even if your baby still relies heavily on formula, there's room for food experimentation. Babies can begin eating soft or pureed foods between 4 to 6 months of age and can graduate to more solids foods, like Gerber Puff Cereal, by around 8 to 12 months. Step 1. Evaluate your baby's readiness for solid foods. A baby should be between 8 and 12 months of age before you give her finger food, according to KidsHealth. She should have developed enough fine motor skills to pick up the food and feed it to herself.
2 out of 2 found this helpful. my son is the same age and he is eating 3rd foods, yogurt bites and puffs..i havent started cheerios but i will when he turns 8 months. 2 more weeks. my son has been on solids from 5 weeks. go by what he likes dont rush him, some babies dont start eating baby food until 7 months. depends on the mother and the baby. 
Quinoa may be introduced to baby from 8 months of age although many babies do tolerate it prior to 8 months. This nutritious grain makes a great addition to your little one’s diet and it is very versatile. You can make it a cereal, a pilaf or a “burger” for finger food! 
By the time he is about 8 or 9 months old, he can begin to eat Gerber Stage 3 foods, also known as Gerber NatureSelect 3rd Foods. At about 4 months old, your baby can begin to eat solid foods. These solid foods include baby cereals and runny, pureed fruits and vegetables. Unless your pediatrician says otherwise, you can start your baby on Stage 3 foods when she's about 8 months old. Initially, you'll give him small bites so that he is not taken by surprise by the little pieces of food that are mixed in.