Remove Homegroup from the Navigation Pane. Next, you’ll want to open up services.msc in the start menu search box, or just find it through Control Panel. Find HomeGroup Listener in the list, and double-click on it. Change the Startup type to Disabled, and click the Stop button to stop the service. 
Some Windows 7/8 machine in your network is still a member of that homegroup. The only way to remove a homegroup is to log on the PC that is a member and remove them from that group. The password for the homegroup will be stored on a member PC should you want to access it. 
To disable the HomeGroup services, you'll need to launch the Services tool. To do so, click the Start button and type Services in the Start Search box. When the Services window appears, locate and select the HomeGroup Provider service, as shown in Figure E. Then, click Stop the Service link.
Navigate to Control Panel\All Control Panel Items\HomeGroup and leave home group. Repeat for every computer on the network. Reboot all computers and go though the process of setting up a group on one computer and then joining the others to it. MI. MI. I don't seem to have the option of leaving the homegroup in Win 10. I'm logged onto MIKE-PC, the computer that was used in Win 7 to create the homegroup (as Mike), and I get an icon like maybe an atom with a green nucleus and blue electrons, saying Mike on MIKE-PC has created a homegroup
There are various ways to remove it, one of which is to use the Personalisation options in the Control Panel. Here's how to get rid of the HomeGroup icon on your PC or laptop. Step 1: From the Windows 8 Start Screen, search for 'Show or hide common icons on the desktop'. Alternatively, right-click on the desktop in the bottom-left corner to show the small menu which includes Control Panel. Finally, click Change desktop icons on the left. Step 2: Even if the box next to Network is unticked, click it to enable it, then disable it again. (If it's ticked to start with, untick it). Step 3: Click OK and you should find the HomeGroup icon has gone from the desktop. There seems to be a bug where the HomeGroup icon can reappear at random. It's simple enough to run through this quick process when that happens, but hopefully a future Windows update will fix this problem
1. Open Computer and right-click on  Homegroup  icon present in Navigation pane and select  Change HomeGroup Settings : 2. Now click on  Leave the homegroup...  link given at bottom. 3. It'll ask for confirmation, click on  Leave the homegroup  button. 4. After that, close Explorer window. 
How do I delete a Homegroup from the network. OK, just upgraded to Windows 10 and I am unable to create a new Homegroup because one that I created a long time ago is still showing up. I do not remember the password to join it and that user has been formatted a long time ago. 
To leave the HomeGroup, click the Start button and type HomeGroup in the Start Search box. When HomeGroup appears at the top of the results panel, press [Enter]. When you see the Change Homegroup Settings dialog box, as shown in Figure B, click the Leave the Homegroup link. To do so, click the Start button and type Services in the Start Search box. When the Services window appears, locate and select the HomeGroup Provider service, as shown in Figure E. Then, click Stop the Service link.
MA. My computer shows that my user account has created a homegroup, but I am not a member of the group. I cannot see a homegroup password, and therefore no other computer on my network can join the group. When I select homegroup in the control panel, I can only chose to join the existing homegroup. MI. MI. I don't seem to have the option of leaving the homegroup in Win 10. I'm logged onto MIKE-PC, the computer that was used in Win 7 to create the homegroup (as Mike), and I get an icon like maybe an atom with a green nucleus and blue electrons, saying Mike on MIKE-PC has created a homegroup on the network.