Yes. To change your party affiliation you can use Maryland's Online Voter Registration System (OLVR) or submit a new voter registration application or a signed written request to your local board of elections. 1 April 5, 2016, for the Presidential Primary Election. 2  If using Maryland's Online Voter Registration System (OLVR) , you have until 9:00pm to submit your application; and. 3  October 16, 2016, for the Presidential General Election.
1 Register to vote in federal, state, county, and city elections in Maryland. 2  Request an absentee ballot. 3  Update your registration if your name has changed or your address has changed. 4  You can also update your registration if you want to change to a new political party. Giving false information to get a voter registration is perjury. You can be punished by a fine of up to $1000 or imprisonment for up to 5 years, or both. 1 
Changing party affiliation affects only the Primary Election. Only the Republican and Democratic Parties are running in the Primary. The Voter can vote for whoever they want in the General Election. If you wish to change your party, you must do so before April 15, 2016, 9 p.m. Fax or mail a request in the form of a signed letter to the Baltimore County Board of Elections. If you are registered in Maryland, you may apply to the local Election Board using a voter registration application. You may also fill out the back of your voter notification card and send it to the local board you are registering with.
You can also download a voter registration application at http://elections.maryland.gov/voter_registration/application.html. You can register to vote in Worcester County if you will be 18 years of age or older by November 8, 2016. The deadline to register to vote in the Primary Election is March 15, 2016. 
*You may register to vote if you are at least 16 years old but cannot vote unless you will be at least 18 years old by the next general election. Can I register to vote if I am in the military or live overseas? Certain U.S. citizens who live overseas or are in the military are eligible to register and vote in Maryland. 1 April 5, 2016, for the Presidential Primary Election. 2  If using Maryland's Online Voter Registration System (OLVR) , you have until 9:00pm to submit your application; and. 3  October 16, 2016, for the Presidential General Election.
You may NOT use this website to: Giving false information to get a voter registration is perjury. You can be punished by a fine of up to $1000 or imprisonment for up to 5 years, or both. 1  Register to vote in federal, state, county, and city elections in Maryland. 2  Request an absentee ballot.
For the 2014 Primary Election, the deadline to change your party affiliation is June 3, 2014. To change your party affiliation, use Maryland's Online Voter Registration System (OLVR) or submit a new voter registration application or a written request to your local board of elections. Generally, you must be registered with either the Democratic or Republican Party to vote in the primary election. If there are non-partisan offices that are elected in a primary election (i.e., school board), any voter can vote for these offices.
1 Register to vote in federal, state, county, and city elections in Maryland. 2  Request an absentee ballot. 3  Update your registration if your name has changed or your address has changed. 4  You can also update your registration if you have changed to a new political party. Giving false information to get a voter registration is perjury. You can be punished by a fine of up to $1000 or imprisonment for up to 5 years, or both. 1 
It will be kept confidential. social security number (item 8) You must register with a party if you want to take part in that par-ty's primary election. party affiliation (item 9) •Register to vote in federal, state, county, and municipal elec-tions in Maryland.•Change your address, or party affiliation. 
You can use Maryland's Online Voter Registration System (OLVR) or submit a voter registration application to your local board of elections or the State Board of Elections at any time. 1 April 5, 2016, for the Presidential Primary Election. 2  If using Maryland's Online Voter Registration System (OLVR) , you have until 9:00pm to submit your application; and. 3  October 16, 2016, for the Presidential General Election.