Mumps is a contagious disease caused by a virus. It typically starts with a few days of fever, headache, muscle aches, tiredness, and loss of appetite, followed by swollen salivary glands. You can protect yourself and your family against mumps with vaccination. Mumps is no longer very common in the United States, but outbreaks continue to occur. Outbreaks have most commonly occurred in places where people have had prolonged, close contact with a person who has mumps, such as attending the same class, playing on the same sports team, or living in the same dormitory.
Adult Mumps: An Overview. Mumps is a contagious illness caused by a virus that can result in fever and swelling of the neck. Infections are most common during spring, especially April and May. Mumps is considered less contagious than both measles and chickenpox. Cause of Adult Mumps. Adult mumps is caused by an infection with the mumps virus, which is found worldwide. The mumps virus is an RNA (ribonucleic acid) virus from the family Paramyxovirus of the genus Rubulavirus. The mumps virus only infects humans.
Mumps is a contagious viral infection that used to be common in children before the introduction of the MMR vaccine. It’s most recognisable by the painful swellings at the side of the face under the ears (the parotid glands), giving a person with mumps a distinctive hamster face appearance. 
Mumps is a contagious illness caused by a virus that can result in fever and swelling of the neck. During the prevaccine era, nearly everyone in the United States experienced it, and 90 percent of cases occurred among children under 15 years of age. 
Mumps normally affects children, but can occur at any age. Mumps is now rare in the UK as children are routinely immunised against mumps. Mumps is an infection caused by a type of virus called a paramyxovirus. It is very contagious and spread in saliva, the same way as a cold or flu. This means it can be caught from an infected person coughing, sneezing, etc. It can also be caught from touching infected objects-for example, door handles. 
Mumps is an illness caused by a virus. It usually occurs in childhood. Mumps are easily spread by airborne droplets from the upper respiratory tract. The disease usually takes 2 to 3 weeks to appear. Complications of mumps occur more frequently among adults than children, and may include: Meningitis or encephalitis. Inflammation of the membrane that covers the brain and spinal cord or inflammation of the brain. Orchitis. Inflammation of one or both testicles.
1 FACT: Mumps can be prevented with a safe and effective vaccine. 2  FACT: Mumps is most contagious from one to two days before to five days after the onset of infection in the salivary glands (parotitis). Mumps is an acute viral disease that is spread from person to person by coughing or sneezing. Some people may have no symptoms or very mild symptoms but they can still pass the virus on to others.
Mumps is an acute and highly contagious viral illness that usually occurs in childhood. Spread by airborne droplets from the upper respiratory tract, the disease usually takes two to three weeks to appear. Cases of mumps in the U.S. have declined dramatically with the introduction of the mumps vaccine. 
1 FACT: Mumps is most contagious from one to two days before to five days after the onset of infection in the salivary glands (parotitis). 2  FACT: About two to three out of every 10 adolescent or adult men who have mumps may experience painful swelling of the testicles. Mumps is an acute viral disease that is spread from person to person by coughing or sneezing. Some people may have no symptoms or very mild symptoms but they can still pass the virus on to others.
Mumps. Mumps is a highly contagious infection spread by a paramyxovirus. The virus can travel in the air through coughs and sneezes, it may be on surfaces people touch, such as door handles or it can be picked-up from cups, cutlery, bowls or plates. In children and adults with mumps and no complications, most get better and have no further side effects. However, in rare cases neurological damage, hearing loss, pancreatitis and even death can occur. Mumps in pregnancy can be dangerous, with an increased risk of miscarriage in the first 12-16 weeks.