This means you have a good margin for profit for your own birds. Free-range organic chicken is delicious! You can fill your own freezer with healthy, great-tasting meat. Organic chicken farming is a great addition to profitable small scale farming.
Coles and Woolworths both source their home brand free range eggs from farms with a stocking density of 10,000. Jan Harwood, who also is the President of the WA Free Range Egg Association, stocks 2,500 hens per hectare on her property.
The advantages of organic chicken as a livestock animal for your small farm are many: Top 5 Reasons Chicken Farming is Profitable Meat chickens are a quick turnaround: in 10-12 weeks you can raise day-old chicks to roaster size. This means a quick return on your investment.
The advantages of organic chicken as a livestock animal for your small farm are many: Meat chickens are a quick turnaround: in 10-12 weeks you can raise day-old chicks to roaster size. This means a quick return on your investment. You can also do more than one batch of birds a year.
With up to 16,000 hens in one hangar, this truly is egg production on an industrial scale. But this is no factory farm. These birds-if they are able to push their way to the hatches in the wall-have access to an outdoor run. And that means their eggs are allowed to be sold as free range.
The average cost to process a chicken on farm was $1.17. Off-farm processing costs ranged from $1 to $4 per bird. If the unusually high $4 charge is excluded, the average cost to process a bird off farm was $1.41. Because of differences in income and other costs, producers processing on farm were not necessarily more profitable than those doing so off farm.
That is Tom and Fiona Fryar's opinion when it comes to what eggs should be classified as free range. Photo: Tom and Fiona Fryar believe a true free range egg farm runs no more than 1,500 hens per hectare (Brooke Neindorf). They run Kangaroo Island Eggs with about 50,000 hens, raising them from one-day-old to when they produce eggs, over a farm of 5,000 acres.