Americans typically do not get enough of the minerals calcium, potassium and magnesium. It is best to get more of these minerals through whole foods so that your body is able to absorb them properly; however, in times of excess growth, such as during pregnancy, your doctor may recommend a supplement. Minerals are inorganic, which means they are not formed by living things, including your body. Instead, the minerals in plants come from the soil in which they are grown. Animal foods get their minerals from eating plants grown in mineral-rich sources.
3. any substance that is neither animal nor vegetable. 4. any of the inorganic elements, as calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, or sodium, that are essential to the functioning of the human body and are obtained from foods. 5. minerals, Brit. mineral water. 6. of, pertaining to, or of the nature of a mineral. 7. containing or impregnated with minerals. 
Definition. The minerals (inorganic nutrients) that are relevant to human nutrition include water, sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, phosphate, sulfate, magnesium, iron, copper, zinc, manganese, iodine, selenium, and molybdenum. Cobalt is a required mineral for human health, but it is supplied by vitamin B 12. There is reason to believe that the purchase and consumption of most of these minerals is beneficial to health for some, but not all, of the minerals. Potassium supplements are useful for reducing blood pressure, in cases of persons with high blood pressure. The effect of potassium varies from person to person
Calcium is the most abundant mineral in your body and is found in your bones and blood. Along with the minerals phosphorus and magnesium, calcium gives your bones strength and density. This mineral also builds and maintains strong, healthy teeth. Some minerals such as calcium are needed in large quantities, while others such as zinc are only needed in trace amounts. Zinc is an essential mineral that is important for keeping your immune system strong and helps your body fight infections, heal wounds and repair cells.
The following definitions on what constitutes a mineral were taken from several different sources and are arranged by year:  1 A mineral is an element or chemical compound that is normally crystalline and that has been formed as a result of geological processes (Nickel, E. H., 1995).  2 Minerals are naturally-occurring inorganic substances with a definite and predictable chemical composition and physical properties.. ( 3 O' Donoghue, 1990). 
The Body-Minerals defined. Dietary minerals are chemical elements required by living organisms. They can be either bulk minerals (required in relatively large amounts) or trace minerals (required only in very small amounts). Appropriate intake levels of each dietary mineral must be sustained to maintain physical health. Excessive intake of a dietary mineral may either lead to illness directly or indirectly because of the competitive nature between mineral levels in the body.
Definition. Minerals are inorganic nutrients. That is, they are materials found in foods that are essential for growth and health and do not contain the element carbon. The minerals that are relevant to human nutrition are water, sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, phosphate, sulfate, magnesium, iron, copper, zinc, manganese, iodine, selenium, and molybdenum. 
Minerals are not equivalent to rocks. A rock is either an aggregate of one or more minerals, or not composed of minerals at all. Rocks like limestone or quartzite are composed primarily of one mineral— calcite or aragonite in the case of limestone, and quartz in the latter case. For example, quartz is defined by its formula, SiO 2, and a specific crystalline structure that distinguishes it from other minerals with the same chemical formula (termed polymorphs). When there exists a range of composition between two minerals species, a mineral series is defined.
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. For example, quartz is defined by its formula, SiO 2, and a specific crystalline structure that distinguishes it from other minerals with the same chemical formula (termed polymorphs). When there exists a range of composition between two minerals species, a mineral series is defined.