Function. The D.D.S. or D.M.D. after a dentist's name is meant to signify that the dentist is a licensed practitioner of dentistry. The abbreviations also let patients know that the dentist has the required amount of education needed to be a dentist. Warning. Some dental practitioners do not need to be dentists to work on teeth. They include dental assistants (CDA for Certified Dental Assistant) and hygienists (Licensed Dental Hygienist). Make sure your dentist has D.D.S or D.M.D after their names if you only want licensed dentists doing the work on your teeth.
A DMD is the same kind of dentist as a DDS. The DMD is just thought of as a more modern degree by some schools and more reflective of the amount of medicine that is incorporated into the modern curriculum in dental schools. My dad graudated from the same school as I did. The original degree bestowed was the DDS for Doctor of Dental Surgery. More dental schools are shaping their curriculum to parallel the MD programs. Schools like UConn and Harvard, which are two of the top dental schools in the US, have DMD programs. Both degrees allow for the same job functions.
If your dentist is a DMD, then he or she is a Doctor of Dental Medicine. A DMD is an academic degree awarded to students upon completion of their dental training program. As for consumers, whether you choose a DMD or DDS, your dentist is an important part of your professional health care team. Scheduling regular dental visits not only helps prevent dental diseases, but can be beneficial to your overall health.
The initials DDS stand for doctor of dental surgery. The initials DMD stand for doctor of dental medicine. Both sets of initials refer to the degree awarded upon graduation from dental school. Both degrees have the same curriculum requirements set by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation.
Upon graduation, they were awarded the DDS degree, which stands for Doctor of Dental Surgery. Things were great in the mid-1800’s. Those who were dentists had the suffix “DDS” hooked on to the end of their name. Then, 27 years later, Harvard University decided to create a dental school. A dentist with DMD after their name and one with DDS after their name can perform the exact same procedures. There is no difference or special privilege that one degree holds over the other.
Common Dental Degrees and Accreditation. Below is a short guide to the most common dental degree and accreditation acronyms. These abbreviations can often be found listed after a dentist’s name. Here is what they tell you about your dentist. General Dentist, DDS and DMD These degrees DDS (Doctor of Dental Surgery) and DMD (Doctor of Dental Medicine) are awarded upon graduation from dental school. While the DDS degree is more common, the education received by a DMD is the same.
DMD is a doctor of Dental Medicine or Medical Dentistry, both terms are correct. The original degree bestowed was the DDS for Doctor of Dental Surgery. More dental schools are shaping their curriculum to parallel the MD programs. Schools like UConn and Harvard, which are two of the top dental schools in the US, have DMD programs. Both degrees allow for the same job functions.
Dentists have one of the following series of letters after their names: D.D.S. (Doctor of Dental Surgery) or D.M.D. (Doctor of Dental Medicine). Both of these degrees mean the same thing, but different schools may award different degrees. Warning. Some dental practitioners do not need to be dentists to work on teeth. They include dental assistants (CDA for Certified Dental Assistant) and hygienists (Licensed Dental Hygienist). Make sure your dentist has D.D.S or D.M.D after their names if you only want licensed dentists doing the work on your teeth.
A doctor is considered one of the most prestigious and respected careers, whether the person is a medical or dental doctor, or a doctor in one of the sciences. There are a number of different abbreviations after a doctor's name, and while it’s unlikely that you will know them all, some are better known than others. As shown in the abbreviations above, the letters after a doctor's name can refer to the persons degree or to any related professional organizations in which the person has been accepted as a fellow or member, allowing them to practice their profession.